2806512|Potentilla basaltica Tiehm & Ertter is described, illustrated, and compared to other members of the Multijugae group, P. newberryi, and Ivesia. The leaf form and small flowers are reminiscent of Ivesia, indicating a possible new link between the two genera.
4098999| A new palm species, Coccothrinax torrida, endemic to a karst hill of semidesert southeastern Cuba, is described and illustrated. The new species is small sized, related to C. pauciramosa, and is characterized by the following features: narrow semiorbicular flat leaves that are covered on the adaxial surface by white wax; a small irregular palman; long and erect inflorescences; and small, white, smooth fruits. /// Se describe una nueva especie de palmera, Coccothrinax torrida, endmica de una montaa krstica en la zona semidesrtica en el Sudeste de Cuba. El nuevo taxn es de tamao pequeo, es cercano a C. pauciramosa, y se caracteriza por tener hojas semiorbiculares estrechas y planas cubiertas de cera blanca en la cara adaxial, con un palman irregular y pequeo, inflorescencias largas y erectas y frutos pequeos, blancos y lisos. 
4497371|Malaxis molotensis, a new orchid species from a wet cloud forest of the Sierra Madre del Sur, Guerrero, Mexico is described and illustrated. In habit and floral structure it resembles the widespread M. histionantha but differs in the elliptic labellum with incurved distal margin, and elongate, oblong-falciform pollinaria.
2807176|Sullivantia (Saxifragaceae) is restricted to the United States; its species occur in very specialized habitats such as wet cliffs and moist canyon walls in scattered localities from Washington and Oregon, eastward to Wyoming, Montana, Colorado, Missouri, Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, and Virginia. Relationships in the genus were reevaluated using data from morphology (including the use of greenhouse-grown plants), crossability, and flavonoid chemistry. The conclusion of this study is that Sullivantia comprises four morphologically similar allopatric taxa: S. oregana, S. hapemanii var. hapemanii, S. hapemannii var. purpusii, and S. sullivantii.
2806426|Lecythis barnebyi Mori and Corythophora amapaensis Pires ex Mori & Prance are described and the following new combinations are coined: Lecythis brancoensis (R. Knuth) Mori, L. schwackei (R. Knuth) Mori, L. alutacea (A. C. Smith) Mori, L. lurida (Miers) Mori, L. holcogyne (Sandwith) Mori, L. corrugata Poiteau subsp. rosea (Spruce ex Berg) Mori, and Corythophora labriculata (Eyma) Mori & Prance.
2806365|A montane population of Trillium pusilum Michx. from the crest of Shenandoah Mountain on the Virginia-West Virginia state line is newly described as T. pusillum var. monticulum. It differs from the related coastal plain variant, var. virginianum Fernald, by its broader and shorter leaf and sepal ratios, typically notched petal apices, consistently sessile flowers (not at all pedicellate), slightly shorter style, and reduced stature. The var. monticulum is restricted to the ridge crest of the mountains at 1190 m (3900 ft) elevation while the var. virginianum is restricted to the coastal plains of eastern Maryland and Virginia at elevations less than 30 m (100 ft).
2807773|A new species of Sorghastrum, S. pohlianum, from Mexico is described and illustrated. A numerical analysis comparing the new species to the closest species (S. nutans and S. nudipes) was undertaken. The first three principal components explain 84% of the variation of the taxa involved. In addition there is morphological evidence to distinguish the new species from its closest relatives. It differs from S. nutans by showing smaller inflorescences, having sterile lemmas and anthers, and having somewhat smaller but wider blades and different flowering periods. In addition, it is distinguished from S. nudipes due to the presence of auricles > 1 mm long and inflorescence branches bearing spikelets along their entire length.
2806308|The reproductive biology of Goodyera oblongifolia, G. repens var. ophioides and G. tesselata is discussed with emphasis on the reproductive isolating mechanisms operating in mixed-species populations. Cytology, phenology and pollination of the above three species were studied. artificial hybridizations were made of these three species and of G. pubescens. Results show that within mixed-species populations, G. oblongifolia, G. repens var. ophioides and G. tesselata are not completely isolated reproductively, and hybridization does occur. The deleterious effects of the loss of gametes to interspecific crosses are reduced by seasonal isolation, perennial growth and geitonogamous seed production which is encouraged by self-compatibility and clonal growth. Thus, hybridization in mixed-species populations is apparently kept to levels low enough to allow the species to maintain their identities.
2805647|Chromosome counts are presented for 43 collections of Nigerian grasses representing 39 species and 25 genera.
2806401|Twelve taxa are recognized in section Gormania, a group geographically restricted to western North America. A discussion of the features and relationships of the taxa, a key to and descriptions of the taxa are presented.
2806704|A new species from Wyoming, Penstemon gibbensii, is described and contrasted to related species.
40792894|The tree genus Holocalyx (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae) is distributed in southern South America and inhabits moist forests or gallery forests of the Cerrado. It is poorly studied taxonomically in spite of its economic importance as material for tool handles, rustic furniture, and fuel wood. Holocalyx is characterized by flowers with a nearly truncate calyx, an actinomorphic corolla of five petals, an androecium of ten stamens, and a stipitate gynoecium positioned centrally within the flower. There are two binomials in the genus: Holocalyx balansae and H. glaziovii. The first one was introduced with the description of the genus, but type material was not specified for the species. The latter, despite being a nomen nudum, is relatively widely applied in herbarium identifications. In this paper, we evaluate nomenclature within Holocalyx and present a taxonomic revision of the genus. We conclude that Holocalyx is monotypic, containing the single species H. balansae.
2806514|Piptadenia (sect. Pityrocarpa) leucoxylon is described from the lower Orinoco basin in Venezuela, and Pithecellobium (sect. Samanea) foederale from Distrito Federal, Brazil, Figures, diagnoses, and discussion of kinship are presented for each.
3218473| Stenocereus zopilotensis Arreola-Nava and Terrazas, a new species from the Zopilote Canyon, municipality of Zumpango del Rio in the center of the state of Guerrero (Mexico), is described and illustrated. This new species is compared to Stenocereus quevedonis J. G. Ortega, S. fricii Snchez-Mej., and S. pruinosus (Otto) Buxb. based on morphological similarity. Moreover, the new species grows sympatrically with S. pruinosus. /// [Spanish]Se describe e ilustra Stenocereus zopilotensis Arreola-Nava y Terrazas procedente de la Caada del Zopilote en el municipio de Zumpango del Ro en el centro del estado de Guerrero (Mexico). Se le compara con Stenocereus quevedonis J. G. Ortega, S. fricii Snchez-Mej. y S. pruinosus (Otto) Buxb. que parecen ser las especies ms parecidas morfolgicamente. Adems la nueva especie crece simptricamente con S. pruinosus. 
2806598|Enzyme electrophoresis was employed to examine genetic variation within and among the three diploid (n=12) species comprising Coreopsis section Calliopsis: C. leavenworthii, C. paludosa and C. tinctoria. Twelve enzymes specified by 20 genes were included, and those isozymes localized in the plastids were identified for several of the enzymes. Mean genetic indentities calculated for pair-wise comparisons of 22 populations (four of C. leavenworthii, one for C. paludosa, and 17 of C. tinctoria) reveal no genetic differentiation between C. leavenworthii and C. tinctoria, whereas C. paludosa exhibits lowered values with the other two taxa. These results are in general agreement with concepts of relationships inferred from morphological and biosystematic data. That is, C. paludosa has been viewed as more distinct from C. leavenworthii and C. tinctoria that the latter two are from each other. The high similarity between. C. leavenworthii and C. tinctoria is somewhat unexpected, however, given the several morphological features that serve consistently to distinguish them.
4098958|Elaphoglossum gemmatum, a species of proliferous fern from Colombia, is described, illustrated, and compared to the most similar species, E. exsertipes, E. phyllitidis, and E. proliferans.
2666507|Phenology, inflorescence behavior, and pollination of 10 sympatric taxa of Bactris were studied in a lowland Amazon forest. Taxa flowered over an eight month period during the rainy season and early dry season, but individual taxa flowered for one to a few months. Related taxa had mostly non-overlapping flowering periods. Inflorescence behavior was similar for all taxa, with nocturnal pistillate anthesis and temperature elevation, followed 24 hours later by rapid, nocturnal staminate anthesis. Pollinators of all taxa were small weevils Phyllotrox (Curculionidae) and nitidulids Colopterus (Nitidulidae), although various other insect visitors were recorded. Large numbers of Phyllotrox were recorded on inflorescences, but weevil sex ratios were highly skewed.
2807324|Bartholomaea has remained of uncertain tribal affinities within Flacourtiaceae since its description, having been allied by various authors with the tribes Casearieae or Scolopieae. However scanning electron microscope examination of floral morphology has uncovered characters that indicate a relationship with Neopringlea and Trimeria of tribe Homalieae.
2806908|Peltogyne chrysopis, an emergent tree of Bahian Atlantic Forest notable for subsessile, globose flowers with rudimentary solid hypanthium, densely white-velutinous sepals and ovary, and planocompressed, elliptic-suborbicular fruits narrowly winged along the short seminiferous suture, is described and figured. A key to species of Peltogyne known from the state of Bahia is provided.
2807200|A new combination, Glandularia x hybrida, and a lectotype are proposed for the common Garden Vervain (Verbena x hybrida). The plant is of horticultural origin, but occurs widely in North America and Mexico as an adventive.
2805563|Six hundred seeds belonging to the genus Mentzelia (Loasaceae) were examined using the Scanning Electron Microscope. The Seeds represented all six sections of the genus and approximately 76% of the total number of species from northern Mexico and western United States. Emphasis was placed on seed material from Wyoming and adjoining states. Ovule serial sectioning was done to deternine testa ontogeny. In all cases seed surface structures could be related to excreascences developing from the integument cells. Six basic seed coat relief features could be distinguished, corresponding to the six sections in the genus. Minor variations in the basic types are constant and characteristic for species or, in very few instances, for species groups. A dendrogram was constructed from the seed testa data which supports the phylogeny established from chromosomal and morphological data. Practical application of seed coat microcharacter specificity to identification of Mentzelia seeds from prehistoric sites is suggested.
2666512|As a result of examining specimens of Dilleniaceae for the Flora of Ecuador and Flora Neotropica, a new species (Doliocarpus subandinus) from Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia is described and illustrated, and the relationship with allied species is discussed.
4497363|A new hybrid, Micropolypodium xbradei, from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, is described and illustrated. It shows intermediate morphology between its parents, M. setosum and Terpsichore achilleifolia, in dissection of blades and veins, and number of sori per segment. New combinations for Brazilian endemic species are presented based on this hybrid and on recent results in grammitid phylogenetics.
2806500|Eobruchia ecuatoriana sp. nov. (Bruchiaceae) has the aspect of a diminutive Trematodon, but is distinctive in having a mitrate calyptra and flexuous seta; Macromitrium perreflexum sp. nov. (Orthotrichaceae) has remarkably reflexed leaves, unlike any known species; Lepidopilum pulcherrimum sp. nov. (Hookeriaceae) is distinguished by its large size and beautifully undulate leaves; Symphyodon americanus sp. nov. (Symphyodontaceae) is remarkable in being the first American representative of a genus and family previously known only fro Asia; it is most closely related to S. echinatus (Mitt.) Jaeg. of the Himalayas and Thailand.
2806135|The closely related fern genera Hemionitis L. and Gymnopteris Bernhardi are separated primarily on differences in leaf architecture and venation. Studies indicate that these characters are highly variable and unreliably diagnostic. Further, the type species of the two genera readily hybridize with each other. Spore morphology, as exhibited by SEM, does not support the traditional alignment of the species in these two genera: some species of hemionitis and Gymnopteris have the same rugose to papillate spores, while other species from both genera possess crested spores. The flavonoid chemistry of these taxa coinciedes with spore type, i.e., taxa from both genera which possess crested spores produce kaempferol and quercetin 3-0-glycosides, while species with tuberculate spores produce only quercetin 3,4 -0-glycosides. The spore and chemical data suggest a realignment of these taxa within a single genus, which would avoid the rather tenuous dependence on a single vegetative character for generic distinctions.
3218427| In a survey of the genus Hybanthus in Brazil, it was found that Ionidium nanum A. St.-Hil. should be considered distinct from Hybanthus albus (A. St.-Hil.) Baill., based on characteristics of indument, habit and nectariferous appendages, and also habitat and geographical distribution. A new combination of I. nanum within Hybanthus is therefore proposed.posed. [Spanish]Durante o levantamento das espcies de Hybanthus no Brasil, observou-se que Ionidium nanum A. St.-Hil. Baill., deveria ser considerado como uma espcie distinta de Hybanthus albus (A. St.-Hil.) Baill., baseado em caractersticas do indumento, hbito e dos apndices nectarferos,alm de hbitat e distribuio geogrfica; desta forma, a nova combinao de I.nanum em Hybanthus  proposta. 
4098953| This study represents a nuclear rDNA ITS-based phylogenetic analyses of a greater sampling of the Old World Astragalus compared to our previous work (212 vs. 134 taxa). Phylogenetic relationships among 212 species (213 accessions) of the Old World Astragalus, including newly segregated monotypic genus Podlechiella, the two aneuploid New World Astragalus, and five related genera, were inferred from analyses of nuclear rDNA ITS sequences using maximum parsimony. A total of 658 nucleotide sites and four binary characters for indels were analyzed. The results of phylogenetic analyses suggest sect. Phyllolobium, comprising mostly the Chinese species, is placed outside of the so-called Astragalus s. str. and is a well-supported monophyletic group. The monotypic annual segregate genus Thlaspidium (Astragalus sect. Thlaspidium, A. thlaspi), is clearly nested within Astragalus s. str. Among the many sections analyzed here, only sects. Cenanthrum, Caraganella, Eremophysa, Incani, Laxiflori, and Lotidium are strongly supported as monophyletic. Our analysis, in agreement with previous studies, shows that the North American euploid Astragalus species are scattered throughout the Old World groups of the genus. 
2806877|H. P. Sartwell's private herbarium was donated to the New York Botanical Garden in 1983 by Hamilton College of Clinton, New York. This herbarium was assembled by Dr. Sartwell (1792-1867) through-out his career and was eventually sold to Hamilton College. The collection is particularly rich in type material, western New York plants, and carices. Dr. Sartwell had an active exchange program with his contemporaries and, therefore, his herbarium also has collections from many parts of the world. An index to collectors is presented, as well as a list of verified and probable types.
2807665|Comparison of midribs of three cycad genera, Chigua, Cycas, and Stangeria, the only three genera characterized by midribs in the pinnae, show that those of Chigua and Stangeria are very similar to each other and quite unlike those of Cycas. Midribs of Cycas include a single, median vein, and the pinnae of these species lack lateral veins. Pinnae midribs of Chigua and Stangeria include several (2-5 and 2-8, respectively) longitudinal parallel veins, and dichotomizing lateral veins arising from the midrib. Pinnae of other cycads including Zamia, with which Chigua appears to be most closely allied, exhibit evenly spaced, longitudinally parallel, dichotomizing veins, a character considered to be primitive. All veins in cycad leaves have a single mesarch protoxylem pole. The midrid condition in Chigua and Stangeria represents an advanced state in comparison to that in the leaf of the Marattiales, for example, where there is a single veined midrib but with numerous mesearch protoxylem poles. It would appear that the midrid has been derived independently at least three times within the cycads, once in each major group.
2807743|From the Patagonian region in Argentina Astragalus neocarpus is described and illustrated. The false septum of its fruit is formed by union of the seed-funicles with the endocarp.
2806726|A new species, Trillium parviflorum, is described in Trillium subgen. Phyllantherum Raf. Trillium parviflorum is easily distinguished from T. albidum Freeman, which it superficially resembles, by its overall smaller size, much smaller linear-lanceolate petals, clove-like fragrance, and dark maroon fruit.
2805930|A New genus, Correllia, and its single species, C. montana, are described from Sierra Mohinora in southwestern Chihuahua, Mexico. The genus belongs in subtribe Peritylinae (Compositae tribe Helenieae) and appears to be most closely related to Perityle.
2807476|The new combination Myrcianthes coquimbensis is porposed, based on Myrtus coquimbensis. The species is described and its relationships and nomenclatural history and discussed.
2806048|Miconia centrosperma and M. santaritensis from Panama, and M. stevensiana from Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica, are described, illustrated, and compared with their presumed relatives.
2805907|Six species are recognized, one of which, Tabebuia neochrysantha, is described as new. The species are delimited primarily on the basis of herbarium material, supplemented by field observation. A key is included, as well as distribution maps, and morphological, anatomical, and ecological data for each species.
2807586|Described from Angasima-tepui in Edo. Bolvar, Venezuela is a new species of Stomatochaeta, a generic segregate of Stenopadus. The distinctions between these two genera are briefly discussed and a key to the new species, Stomatochaeta acuminata, and the other species of Stomatochaeta is given. Bilabiate flowers are reported for the first time in Glossarion, which formerly was thought to have only ligulate flowers. Guaicaia, erected to house a single species with bilabiate flowers but otherwise similar in critical features to the reportedly ligulate Glossarion, is reduced to synonymy. Accordingly, the new combination Glossarion bilabiatum is proposed. An emended generic description of Glossarion and a key to its species are presented.
2805467|The genus Moonia of India and Ceylon, traditionally placed in the subtribe Melampodiinae, is shown to have closer affinities with Dahlia and Hidalgoa of the subtribe Coreopsidinae. Several morphologically heterogeneous taxa are excluded from Moonia, and the remaining species, M. heterophylla, is described and illustrated.
2807400| Croton chamelensis Lott, known from the Estacin de Biologa, Chamela, Jalisco, and surrounding area, is described and illustrated. It appears to be most closely related to C. ramillatus Croizat of Veracruz. 
2807846|An analysis of the flowering plant flora of a lowland moist forest in central French Guiana reveals 25 species with adaptations for epizoochorous dispersal by barbs, hooks, or spines (stick-tights). This represents 1.5% of the flowering plant flora. Stick-tights are represented among the monocotyledons of the flora of central French Guiana by five species of Poaceae. The Fabaceae and Asteraceae, each with six species with stick-tight dispersal, are richest families of flowering plants in terms of stick-tight dispersal in central French Guiana. This region possesses numerous potential mammal and bird dispersal agents, therefore it is a puzzle why stick-tight dispersal, especially among species of the canopy, is not more frequent.
2807245|Elatine paramoana, a new species from the high Andean region of the Cordillera Oriental in Colombia, is described, illustrated, and compared to its nearest relatives, E. ecuadoriensis and E. fassettiana. Notes on morphological variation and general ecology and a key to the central and northern Andes species are also given.
2806099|Macleania penduliflora is described from Antioquia, Colombia, and represents the first species of the genus with long-pendulous and ramiflorous inflorescences.
2806457|On the basis of correlated similarities in general morphology, non-Kranz leaf anatomy, 
2806220|This report includes fifteen varietal combinations and a description of a new variety, T. haydenii var. barnebyi.
2806951|A wood anatomical study of the Mexican species of Tapirira was undertaken to uncover evidence to help clarify the systematics of the genus. Three to five individuals of each of 10 populations from throughout the range of the genus in Mexico were studied. For comparative purposes, three Central and South American species were also examined. Cluster analysis showed that the genus in Mexico can be separated into two phenetic units, represented by T. mexicana, a species widely distributed in Mexico, and T. chimalapana, a species endemic to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. Canonical discriminant and factor analysis indicate that the quantitative wood characters most useful in distinguishing these species are wall thickness of fibers and vessels, diameter of fiber lumen, and diameter and frequency of radial canals. These species also differ in presence/absence of tannins in the fibers and color and specific gravity of the wood. The South American species, Tapirira bethanniana, T. guianensis, and T. obtusa, have wood anatomy similar to that of T. chimalapana. The differences in the wood anatomical characters between T. mexicana and the other taxa suggest that the infrageneric classification of Tapirira should be reevaluated. The results of this study support the utility of sampling of populations in comparative wood anatomy.
2807004|Oparanthus with two species from the Tubuai Islands of the South Pacific Ocean and the monotypic Petrobium from St. Helena in the South Atlantic are judged to belong more properly within Bidens. Comparisons of diagnostic morphological features are provided, and the necessary combinations are made, including Bidens rapensis (F. Brown) Stuessy and B. tubuaiensis (F. Brown) Stuessy.
2805740|This paper evaluates the morphological bases for Bierhorst's recent proposals of the systematic alliance of Psilotaceae with leptosporangiate ferns. In particular it examines the evidence which Bierhorst cites in support of the homology of the frond of Stromatopteris moniliformis with the aerial shoots of Psilotum and Tmesipteris. By a reevaluation of the data it is shown that these shoot components are not homologous but are at best analogous structures. Bierhorst's proposals of morphological correspondence seem to have been based on the assumption that shoots of both Psilotaceae and Stromatopteridaceae are at a primitive level of evolution, intermediate between an ancestral telomic form and the more organographically differentiated higher ferns and seed plants. however, a clear histogenetic and morphogenetic distinction between leaves and buds in ferns and Psilotaceae as well as the occurrence of the same type of correlative integration of shoot components in both groups indicates that neither is morphologically very primitive. While the lack of structural correspondence between elements of one phase of the plant's morphology does not necessarily negate Bierhorst's general taxonomic conclusions, the fundamental nature of the differences in shoot morphology make it doubtful that the Psilotaceae should be associated with the Filicales.
2805732|Lewisia serrata, known from only three localities in the American River drainage of Eldorado and Placer counties, California, is described as a new species. Its closest relatives are L. cantelowii J. T. Howell and L. columbiana (T. Howell) Rob.
2806047|Lophanthera hammelii sp. nov. is described, illustrated, and compared to the other four species of the genus. The distribution of all five species is mapped and discussed, and the chromosome number of L. lactescens (n = 6) is proposed as the likeliest base-number for the family Malpighiaceae.
2806242|Maxillaria suaveolens Barringer from the Gulfo Dolce region of Costa Rica is described and illustrated.
2666619|Herbarium studies leading to a treatment of the Myrsinaceae for the Flora of Central French Guiana resulted in the discovery of two heretofore undescribed species, Cybianthus prevostiae and Stylogyne incognita. The species are described and illustrated, and hypotheses regarding phylogenetic relationships with their respective congeners are provided. Cybianthus prevostiae is unusual among members of Cybianthus subgen. Weigeltia owing to its monoaxial habit and ellipsoid pistil, and deeply cupuliform calyx. Stylogyne incognita, a taxon often confused with S. micrantha, is most closely related to S. sordida but is separated from it by the corymbose inflorescence, entire leaves, longer petioles, and membranaceous perianth.
2805914|The monotypic genus Trachylobium [T. verrucosum (Gaertn.) Oliv.] from East Africa and adjacent islands is returned to Hymenaea verrucosa Gaertn. on the basis of reevaluation of inflorescence, flower, and fruit characters together with new evidence from seedlings, pollen, leaf venation, chromosome number, and chemistry of the resins. Hymenaea verrucosa appears more similar to an Amazonian and Cuban group of species, which may have been derived from a common African ancestral stock in the Tertiary period, than to another group of species that probably evolved from the evergreen forest species and then radiated into an expanding area of drier habitats during the later Tertiary and dry intervals of the Pleistocene. Originally the genus Trachylobium was distinguished from Hymenaea by a morphological comparison with the probably more recently evolved species. A possible explanation is presented for the disjunct amphi-Atlantic distribution of H. verrucosa and the neotropical species of Hymenaea.
2807192|Pereskia marcanoi is newly described from the rocky hillsides of Cerro San Francisco (Bnica), western Dominican Republic. With three other species from Hispaniola and Cuba, this new taxon forms a unique group of functionally dioecious Pereskia species native to the West Indies. Some important diagnostic characters of the members of this group are contrasted in key form.
2666553|The following species, originally described in the genus Saracha Ruiz & Pav., are transferred to Jaltomata, in accordance with contemporary generic boundaries. Jaltomata auriculata (Miers) Mione is distributed from Venezuela to Peru; J. contorta (Ruiz & Pav.) Mione and J. diversa (J. F. Macbr.) Mione both occur in Peru; J. herrerae (C. V. Morton) Mione is distributed in Peru and Bolivia; J. nitida (Bitter) Mione occurs in Venezuela.
2807230|The genus Cucumella is closely related to Cucumis. It consists of 11 taxa found in southern and eastern Africa and India. Cucumella jeffreyana and C. clavipetiolata are described as new species, and subgenus Leptopericarpia, section Aculeatae, and series Eporcatae are also described as new. Cucumella (Kedrostis) engleri is lectotypified. A description of the genus, a key to its species, and a description, the distribution, and a discussion of each species are presented.
2805884|An aneuploid chromosome series of n = 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 in Coreopsis nuecensis Heller was analyzed for morphological, distributional, and genetic correlations with the chromosome number classes. The results show that two sets of basic chromosome numbers occur within what has been treated as C. nuecensis: n = 6, 7 and n = 9, 10. The n = 7 class frequently carries a pair of B chromosomes, forming the n = 8 class. The base chromosome numbers are correlated with some minor but consistent morphological differences, with distributional differences, and with strong sterility barriers in the $F_1$ hybrids. It is proposed that the n = 9, 10 segment be recognized as a new species, Coreopsis nuecensoides.
2805818|Twenty-four new taxa (16 species, 8 varieties) are described in the genus Stevia from North and Central America. Three new combinations are made. Brief discussions concerning the relationships of the new taxa are provided.
2807440|Vaccinium wilburii, a striking epiphyte with pink flowers and woody tuberous roots, is described, illustrated, and compared with similar species.
2807190|The 13 high altitude/latitude, dwarf species of Chusquea in Brazil are described, illustrated, and mapped, and their morphology, habitats, distributions, and taxonomic affinities are discussed. Two keys to species are provided, one based solely on vegetative characters, and the other on vegetative and flowering characters. Chusquea erecta, C. nutans, C. riosaltensis, C. windischii, C. caparaoensis, and C. nudiramea are described as new, and C. microphylla is elevated to specific status. Two subspecies are recognized within the variable C. mimosa: C. mimosa subsp. australis and subsp. mimosa. Seven species are formally classified within Chusquea sect. Swallenochloa; the remaining six species are classified into two informal categories, the Nudiramea and Heterephylla groups. A list of all the species currently included within Chusquea sect. Swallenonchloa is provided.
40648246|Dimerostemma, as circumscribed here, contains 25 species, 19 of which occur in Brazil. The Brazilian species of the genus are revised in the current treatment. The greatest concentration of species is in cerrados and campos rupestres of central western Brazil. One new species (Dimerostemma paneroi) is described, illustrated and discussed, a new combination (D. oblongum) is proposed, and lectotypes are designated for D. arnottii, D. goyazense, D. lippioides, D. pseudosilphioides, D. vestitum, and Verbesina arnottii var. angustifolia. A key to the Brazilian members of Dimerostemma is provided, along with synonymies, descriptions, illustrations, and discussions of the species.
2807390| Arbutus tessellata Srensen, described adn illustrated, is a tree distinguished chiefly by its checkered bark and long, spreading, glandular hairs on the petioles and young twigs and is recognized as distinct from A. glandulosa Martens & Galeotti. 
2805548|Observations of meiotic chromosomes are reported for all 21 species and 3 additional sub-species of Gaura (Onagraceae), based upon a study of 647 individuals from 509 naturally occuring populations throughout the range of the genus. The basic chromosome number for the genus is x=7, and 18 species are diploid with n=7. Among these, the self-incompatible ones are often highly chromosomally heterozygous, with no homozygous individuals having been found in nature in the peren-rennials Gaura lindheimeri and G. villosa, and two-thirds or more of the individuals apparently heterozygous in the following well-sampled species: G. calcicola, G. longiflora, and G. sulffulta subsp. suffulta. In contrast, the autogamous species are entirely chromosomally homozygous or nearly so. Two species of Gaura are reported as chromosomal structural heterozygotes, with about 50% pollen abortion: G. biennis and G. triangulata; the translocation systems originated independently of one another. Two of the three polyploid species, G. sinuata and G. drummondii (G. odorata of many authors), are consistently tetraploid (n=14) and, despite their cytological autotetraploidy, are thought to have originated following interspecific hybridization. They are the only rhizomatous species in the genus and may have had one ancestor in common. The remaining polyploid, G. coccinea, includes populations with n=7, 14, 21, and 28, as well as evident interploid hybrids and, frequently, supernumerary chromosomes. The relationship among these populations is close and is maintained by frequent hybridization and exchange of genetic material. No other species seems to have participated in their origin, and the assocation of their chromosomes is consistently that characteristic of autopolyploidy in plants with tetraploid and higher chromosome numbers.
2805920|Dichanthelium (Panicum subg. Dichanthelium Hitchc. & Chase) is elevated to generic rank, with new name combinations for 17 species and three varieties. Erioneuron grandiflora and E. nealleyi are reduced to varietal rank under E. avenaceum. One new name combination in Elymus and one in Leptoloma are proposed.
2805472|Eragrostis scaligera Salzm. ex Steud., a native of northeastern Brazil, is redescribed and reported from Florida, the first record from North America. It has been mistaken for E. bahiensis Schrad. in Schult., E. maypurensis (H.B.K.) Steud., and E. rufescens Schrad. in Schult., but is distinct in having axillary, intravaginal inflorescences in addition to terminal ones, and smooth, shining caryopses in which the longitudinal axis of the embryo is oriented at 45-90 to the axis between the style and attachment scars. The plants are tetraploid with the chromosome number 2n=40 (n=20).
2807456|A new species in the Epidendrum difforme complex is described and illustrated, E. oldemanii. Closely related to E. amapense, E. oldemanii is distinguished by the absence of a midlobe to the labellum.
2806366|A map is presented showing 13 floristic provinces and nine subprovinces in North America.
2805820|Blakea wilburiana is described from the low volcanic uplift of El Valle de Antn in central Panama. Hirsute pubescence, papery leaves, and large, thin floral bracts suggest a marked affinity with B. bracteata Gleason of South America. A character tabulation, comparing the two species, is included together with illustrations of the diagnostic morphological features.
2807776|In the flora of French Guiana we find considerable within-plant variation in leaf form. We observed entire, two-lobed, and three-lobed leaves within five separate levels (tiers) of the canopy of a single individual of Pourouma tomentosa subsp. maroniensis. Five branches from each of the five tiers of the tree were collected around the axis of the trunk. From these branches five secondary branchlets were selected and all leaves excised with information recorded as to nodal position, number of leaf nodes, and fertility status of the main branch. This design produced 1015 leaves representing about 20 m
2806939| Lepidopilum grevilleanum Mitt., long considered a synonym of L. affine C. Mll., is a distinct and rare species of western Ecuador. Lepidopilum affine is wedespread, presently known from the western and northern Amazon basin, Atlantic region of northern South America, and the Pacific coastal region of Central America. Several new synonyms are proposed for Lepidopilum affine: L. allionii Broth., L. ambiguum Broth., L. antisanense Bartr., L. mittenii C. Mll., L. obtusulum C. Mll., and L. subobtusulum Broth. Lepidopilum pulcherrimum Steere is a synonym of L. grevilleanum. 
2805867|The generic concept of Stictocardia is evaluated and accepted. Two species, whose nomenclature is interwoven with Ipomoea alba I. macrantha, are described, discussed, and illustrated.
2807582|Gaultheria sclerophylla var. hirsuta Luteyn from Ecuador is describen, illustrated, and discussed, and the following new combinations are validated: Gaultheria buxifolia var. elassantha (A. C. Smith) Luteyn, G. buxifolia var. secunda (E. J. Remy) Luteyn, G. lanigera var. rufolanata (Sleumer) Luteyn, G. strigosa var. revoluta (A. C. Smith) Luteyn, G. eriophylla var. mucronata (E. J. Remy) Luteyn, G. alnifolia var. grata (A. C. Smith) Luteyn, G. serrata (Vell. Conc.) Sleumer ex Kinoshita-Gouva.
2806269|Gustavia fosteri is described from material collected on Barro Colorado Island, Panama and the differences are given between it and its closest relatives, G. superba Berg and G. angustifolia Benth.
2807196|Salix taxifolia s. l., originally described as two species, has been treated as either a single species, or as two varieties: var. taxifolia and var. microphylla. Morphological, chemical, and phytogeographical evidence supports treating Salix taxifolia and S. microphylla as species. These taxa are distinguished on the basis of leaf length, leaf lenght-widht ratio, the number of teeth or glands on the leaf margins, the presence or absence of abaxical nectaries in the staminate flowers, the presence or absence of foliar stipules, and by their flavonoid profiles. Their geographical ranges are different and come into contact only in the state of Durango, Mexico. Phenetically, all of the subgroups of S. taxifolia are more similar to each other than they are to S. microphylla. Both of these taxa are morphologically more similar to each other than they are to other members of sect. Longifoliae. A key to the species and descriptions are provided.
2806866| Three new species of Dalea (Fabaceae tribe Amorpheae) discovered in the Andes of Cajamarca, Peru by Prof. I. Snchez Vega are described, illustrated, and discussed. All (Dalea glumacea, D. isidori, D. tridactylites) belong to sect. Parosela ser. Coeruleae, 14 members of which are currently known from the Department, the principal focus of speciation for the series. A key to the 16 taxa of Dalea found hitherto in Departamento de Cajamarca is provided. 
2807686|As a result of a review of the Costaceae for the Manual de las Plantas de Costa Rica, two new species of Costus (C. ricus and C. osae) are here described and illustrated. The assignment of the new species of Costus subgen. Costus is discussed.
41406778|Badiera subrhombifolia is newly described from Hispaniola, where it co-occurs with B. fuertesii and B. penaea. Badiera subrhombifolia lacks the long peduncle of the former species and the scabrous leaves of the latter; it is also often distinguishable by subrhomboid, triplinerved leaves. This new species is a near endemic to high montane forests of the "south island" of Hispaniola, i.e., the Massif de la Hotte, Massif de la Selle, and Sierra de Bahoruco.
2805520|The eighteen species studied form an allopolyploid series (x=18). The morphology, crossing behavior, and geographical distribution of 6 diploid, 9 tetraploid, 2 octoploid, and 1 decaploid species were studied. From over 26,500 crosses, 19 hybrid combinations and several derived allopolyploids and three-species hybrids were obtained. Chromosome pairing in the hybrids showed that a minimum of 6 and a maximum of 14 well-differentiated genome groups exist in sect. Furcaria, at least two of which appear to be confined to the Old World. No evidence was found that New world genomes are represented in the Old World. The primary radiation of the diploid genomes probably occurred at about the same time as that of the diploid genomes of Gossypium, whereas the tetraploids and one of the octoploid species (H. furcatus Roxb., non Willd.) seem to be of later origin (late Pleistocene or Recent). Octoploid H. diversifolius Jacq., a circumtropical species, may be a relict of a much earlier round of polyploid evolution.
2807120| Petunia guarapuavensis, a new species from planalto (high plateau) of Paran and Santa Catarina in Brazil, is described, and its morphological distinction from related species, features of the habitats, and geographical distribution are discussed. 
2806787|Recent field collecting in northwetern South America has resulted in the discovery of numerous new Ericaceae. Twelve new species of Cavendishia are herein described. Line drawings and SEM micrographs are included to illustrate certain taxonomically important features.
2805931|The Flora North America Program will create a computer data bank of taxonomic information about the vascular plants of North America north of Mexico. The system, which will serve a broad range of users, will provide for the acquisition, editing, and storage of data and the preparation of a variety of products. It will grow and evolve over a long period of time, continually incorporating changes to data and new categories of information as they become available. The system will utilize an existing computer program package, the IBM Generalized Information System (GIS), for creating, maintaining, querying, and generating reports from its files of data. In addition to a file of taxonomic, ecological, and geographic data about each taxon, the system will build and maintain a series of authority or dictionary files to control system content. The first major system product will be a published flora, generated by computer. Many other catalogs and indexes will be prepared and specific questions may be asked of the data bank to meet individual user needs for information.
2807589|Three new species of Dalechampia are described from the Guayanan region of Venezuela. Dalechampia attenuistylus belongs to section Rhopalostylis and may be most closely related to D. parvibracteata Lanj. Dalechampia megacarpa belongs to section Dioscoreifoliae, although it is not especially close to any species in the section. Dalechampia papillistigma is also an isolated member of section Dioscoreifolieae.
2807284|The life and career of Robert Statham Williams (1859-1945) is skatched. His trip to Bolivia and Peru in 1901-1902 is discussed at length and an itinerary, with dates, is provided. Details concerning the numbering and distribution of his vascular plant collections are given, and notes are provided concerning the typification of the new species that Henry Hurd Rusby (1855-1940) based on these collections. An annotated catalog of vascular plant species described from Williams' Bolivian and Peruvian plant collections is appended, as is a gazetteer of the place names cited in Williams' field books and publications based on Williams' vascular and cryptogamic plant collections. One new combination, Oxypetalum apoloensis, and one new name, Acalypha rusbyi, are proposed. Lectotypes are designated for Gothofreda apoloensis and Cedrela brunellioides.
2806317|A new species of Dioon found in northwestern Chiapas is characterized by linear-lanceolate leaflets arising at an acute angle from the rachis, obliquely inserted on it and imbricate.
2807852|Salix section Longifoliae occurs from Alaska to Guatemala and from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Nine taxa are here accepted as five species with one of the species including two subspecies and four varieties. The holotype of Salix taxifolia Humb., Bonpl. & Kunth represents the same taxon as the lectotype of Salix microphylla Schltdl. & Cham. Material recently called S. taxifolia is given a new name, Salix exilifolia Dorn. The name Salix fluviatilis Nutt. is considered to be synonymous with S. melanopsis Nutt. One new variety is described and two new combinations are made under Salix exigua Nutt.
4098980|Ponthieva rinconii, a new orchid species from the foothills of the Sierra Madre Oriental in Veracruz, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is similar in overall appearance to the wide-ranging upland species P. schaffneri, but differs from it in habitat preferences (tropical semi-evergreen forest at 650 m elevation), presence of a loose raceme, and three-lobed labellum with a basal cavity.
2806057|The type specimens of Drepanocladus minnesotensis Williams and Neocalliergon integrifolium Williams are shown to be D. aduncus var. kneiffii (B.S.G.) Monk, and Scorpidium scorpioides (Hedw.) Limpr., respectively. These fossils, which were originally obtained from late glacial sediments in Minneapolis, Minnesota, together with other mosses identified from the deposit, indicate that deposition probably took place in a shallow depression filled with calcareous water. Pleistocene mosses from near Bronson, Minnesota, originally named D. minnesotensis are reidentified as D. aduncus (Hedw.) Warnst. and Calliergon giganteum (Schimp.) Kindb.
2807369|Four species of Colura not previously reported from Australia are: C. acroloba (Mont.) Jovet-Ast, C. ari Steph., c. conica (Sande Lac.) Goeb., and Colura queenslandica sp. nov. A key to all ten species occurring in Australia is provided. Saccate lobules of C. simplicior are described and illustrated for the first time. The name Colura sect. Lingua Jovet-Ast ex Thiers is validated.
2807397|Thirty-four lectotypes and three neotypes of names of taxa in Aster section Biotia DC. ex Torrey & Gray are designated. In addition, six lectotypes and one neotype that were selected originally in herb. are validated, i. e., published here for the first time. These typifications are presented as part of a complete annotated synonymy of the section, comprising a total of 128 entries.
2805905|The pileus cuticle is one-layered in a few species of Russula, but in the others it can be interpreted as composed of two layers-the epicutis uppermost and below this, the subcutis. The basic difference between the two layers is in hyphal orientation. Cell inflation may obscure the orientation in the cuticles of some species. This has given rise to differing interpretations of cuticular structure, especially in regard to the number of nameable layers present, and thus to differing terms for the layers. No Russulas illustrate this better than those of subsection Virescentinae, of which the two most common North American species, R. crustosa Peck and R. virescens (Schaeffer ex Secretan) Fries, are discussed and described.
30218764|Four new species and one new combination of Adenia are presented, along with a vegetative key and diagnostic characters of the Madagascan species. Additional notes are provided about unusual specimens and field observations. Adenia kigogoensis from Tanzania is shown to be distinct from A. stenodactyla (its putative closest relative) and A. digitata based on anther connation and other floral traits. The remaining new taxa are from Madagascar. Adenia litoralis has been observed from one coastal locality in northern Madagascar. It is distinctive in fruit size and leaf form. Adenia metamorpha is the only Madagascan taxon with a narrow cylindrical trunk and large napiform tuber; it is also known from only one locality in Madagascar in the Ankarana Reserve. Adenia mcdadiana is a robust liana with highly reduced glands and leaves that appear to be neotenic compared to its closest putative relative, A. sphaerocarpa. Finally, the position of A. stylosa has been clarified. This species was once treated as A. firingalavensis var. stylosa, and prior to that as A. epigea var. stylosa, but molecular and morphological data suggest it is separate from these species.
2805436|Senecio smallii and S. tomentosus occasionally hybridize on the granitic flatrocks of the Piedmont of the Southeastern United States. These hybrids are intersectional crosses between sections Aurei and Tomentosi. The parental species have different chromosome numbers with n = 22 in S. smallii and n = 23 in S. tomentosus. Meiosis in the hybrids is abnormal with $22_iis$ and $1_i$ or $21_iis$ and $3_is$, and the percentage of stainable pollen is greatly reduced over that of the parents. The hybrid pollen grains are structurally abortive as demonstrated by the scanning electron microscope. Origin of the natural hybrids was documented by the production of artificial hybrids including $F_1's$, $F_2's$, and BC's. Very few of the $F_2$ seeds germinated, and all of the $F_2$ seedlings later died, indicating hybrid breakdown. Seeds of the $F_1$ and BC generations germinated well, and the seedlings were vigorous. Population samples indicate that there is some variation within the natural population systems; however, no evidence of introgression was detected. The isolating mechanisms and possible evolutionary effects of this natural hybridization are discussed.
2806194|Raritebe contains one species with two subspecies, the latter differing significantly in floral biology. raritebe palicoureoides subsp. palicoureoides is heterostylous and is known from the Cordilleras Central and Oriental in Colombia and from east of the Andes in Ecuador and northeastern peru; R. palicoureoides subsp. dwyeranum is homostylous and known only from west of the Andes in Colombia and from Panama and Costa Rica. The most probable hypothesis is that the self-incompatible subsp. palicoureoides gave rise to subsp. dwyeranum through genetic crossing over followed by long distance dispersal of the resulting self-compatible progeny. Coherent anthers with an unusual method of pollen release are characteristic of subsp. dwyeranum. Raritebe palicoureoides subsp. dwyeranum and R. palicoureoides subsp. palicoureoides var. antioquianum are described as new.
2807365|New species of Melastomataceae from the Guianas are described in the genera Adelobotrys (Adelobotrys ayangannensis) and Clidemia (Clidemia ayangannensis, C. granvillei). Davya crassiramis Naudin is transferred as Meriania crassiramis, Tschudya pulverulenta DC. is given the new name Miconia aliquantula, and Henriettella venosa Gleason is transferred as Clidemia venosa.
2807386|Machaeranthera heterocarpa, a new species from southern Texas, is described and illustrated. It is closely related to M. tenuis of Trans-Pecos Texas and northern Mexico from which it differs most notably in stem pubescence, fruit morphology, and chromosome number. The adaptive significance of the heteromorphic achenes of this new species is discussed.
3218496|Tylopilus alkalixanthus is described from the Cordillera Talamanca of Costa Rica. At the present time it is known only from Costa Rica and Japan.
2807591|The Antennaria rosea species complex is circumscribed to contain four subspecific taxa. A complete synonymy and key to the subspecies of A. rosea is presented. The following new combinations are proposed: Antennaria rosea subsp. arida (E. Nels.) R. Bayer, A. rosea subsp. confinis (Greene) R. Bayer, and A. rosea subsp. pulvinata (Greene) R. Bayer. The affinities of A. rosea to other species of Antennaria are discussed and a key to separate A. rosea from related polyploid complexes is provided.
2806004|Astomiopsis saint-pierrei Thr. ex Buck is described as new from Nevado de Toluca in Mexico. It is characterized by oblong-lanceolate leaves with recurved margins and a percurrent costa. The capsules are immersed, have a well-developed, deciduous annulus, and are covered with a large, cucullate calyptra. A key to the five known species of Astomipsis is given.
3218443| Two new species of Nolinaceae are described and illustrated. The first is a ponytail palm, Beaucarnea compacta, occuring in xerophytic scrub in the Sierra Madre Oriental near Atarjea, Guanajuato. The second new species is Calibanus glassianus, adding the second species to the genus Calibanus. This new species is found in the transition between tropical deciduous forest to submontane scrub in the Sierra Madre Oriental near Xich, Guanajuato. ///[Spanish]Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Nolinaceae. La primera es una pata de elefante o palma petacona, Beaucarnea compacta. Se distribuye en matorrales xerfitos de la Sierra Madre Oriental cerca de Atarjea, Guanajuato. La segunda nueva especie es Calibanus glass ianus, que adiciona una especie ms al gnero Calibanus. Esta nueva especie se encuentra en la transicin de bosques tropicales caducifolios con matorrales xerfilos de la sierra Madre Oriental en los alrededores de Xich, Guanajuato. 
3218345|Solanum homalospermum (Solanum subgen. Leptostemonum) is described and illustrated from central Argentina. Solanum homalospermum is characterized by having heteromorphic gynoecia, strongly flattened seeds, unequal anthers, and gemmiferous roots.
2805618|A new species of ricegrass, Oryzopsis swallenii, from the sagebrush hills at the east end of the Lost River and Lemhi ranges in east central Idaho is described. The plant combines features of Stipa and Oryzopsis, but is set apart from Stipa by virtue of a quickly deciduous awn and a blunt callus, and from other species in Oryzopsis by its relatively long glumes and its chromosome number, 2n = 34. The Chromosome number for O. exiguia Thurb., 2n = 22, is also reported. A key is provided to separate this new species from others in the genus most similar to it.
2805703|Trixis chiapensis, T. grandibracteata, T. mexicana var. auriculata, T. mexicana var. macradenia, and T. parviflora are described as new, and the combinations T. california var. peninsularis, T. michuacana var. longifolia, and T. pringlei var. oligantha are proposed. The application of the names T. inula and T. michuacana is discussed.
30218769|A new species, Bactris nancibaensis, from French Guiana, is described and illustrated.
2807723| A new species of the genus Sanicula (sect. Sanicoria) endemic to the southern Sierra Jurez of Baja California, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Sanicula moranii resembles S. deserticola and S. bipinnatifida, but has thicker basal leaves, with broader petioles and rachises, and shorter fruit prickles that are confined to the apical part of the mericarps. The taxonomic relationships of these three species are discussed, along with aspects of their distribution and habitat. 
3218411|Resolution of species delimitations in the Rhynchospora globosa complex has revealed three species new to science from South America: R. bracteovillosa, R. leucoloma, and R. melanocarpa. Each species is described and illustrated and its geographical distribution discussed.
2806548|A revised description and illustration of Russula eccentrica are provided along with notes on habitat, geographic distribution, and infrageneric classification. The possibility that R. eccentrica was previously described as R. morgani is discussed.
2805609|A key and descriptions are provided for the seven species of Zanthoxylum occurring in the United States and Canada.
2806422|The continuing study of the flora of Colorado has turned up 27 new records and has made necessary 14 new combinations and the re-evaluation or reinstatement of 6 species.
30218797|Seventeen species of Foetidia are recognized; one from East Africa, two from the Mascarene Islands and the remaining fourteen from Madagascar. A key to all the species is provided for the first time.
2806408|Series Buddleiifoliae of the genus Vernonia of southeastern South America consists of 18 species which are keyed, described, discussed and mapped. Vernonia goiasensis is proposed as a new name, while V. wasshausenii and V. monocephala subsp. irwinii are described as new taxa, and V. asteriflora subsp. kuntzei is presented as a new combination.
2805471|Canotia, a genus of holacanthoid shrubs of southwestern United States and northern Mexico, is redescribed, and reasons are advanced for retaining it in the family Celastraceae. Two species are recognized, including C. wendtii sp. nov. from Chihuahua.
2805512|Differences in inflorescence maturation patterns, in the scar at the apex of the anthocarp after abscision of the upper portion of the perianth, and between receptacles give additional support for the recognition of Abronia and Tripterocalyx as separate genera. Keys, descriptions, and distribution of 11 species of Abronia and three species of Tripterocalyx are given.
4497360|The Gleicheniaceae are an ancient family of ferns, with three of the six extant genera occurring in New Zealand: Dicranopteris, Gleichenia, and Sticherus. The biogeographic origins of this family in New Zealand are unknown, and the taxonomy of Gleichenia in particular is still unclear. To address aspects of these two issues, DNA sequences from the trnL-trnF locus and the rbcL gene were produced for all of the common Gleicheniaceae species in New Zealand, as well as for Gleichenia alpina from Tasmania and Sticherus cryptocarpus from Chile. Several trnL-trnF haplotypes were found amongst New Zealand G. dicarpa. One of these haplotypes was also observed in Tasmanian G. alpina, while the other New Zealand G. dicarpa trnL-trnF haplotypes were more similar to those of G. microphylla. These results suggest the taxonomy of New Zealand Gleichenia may be more complex than presently recognized. Molecular dating of the rbcL sequences with the program r8s rejected vicariant explanations for the disjunct distributions between New Zealand and elsewhere for each of Dicranopteris, Gleichenia, and Sticherus. However, the direction of the inferred long-distance dispersal was not resolved.
2806513|Begonia xilitlensis, a new species in Begonia section Gireoudia from Mexico is described, illustrated, and discussed, and the taxonomic and nomenclatural status of two others, Begonia glandulosa and B. stigmosa, is evaluated with a lectotype chosen for the former.
2806236|Chamaecrista (sect. Apoucouita) amabilis is described from the coastal plain of Bahia, Brazil and compared with sympatric kindred Ch. duartei and Ch. onusta. The new species is illustrated and its diagnostic characters emphasized in a key.
2805617|A preliminary survey of the flora of Hispaniola in the West Indies has revealed a number of novelties in the genera Acidoton, Bacopa, Calliandra, Cordia, Diodia, Frankenia, Gesneria, Ginoria, Jacaranda, Justicia, Marsdenia, Matelea, Piptocoma, Psidium, Samanea, Satureia, Scolosanthus, Tabebuia, Tetrazygia, Verbesina. Descriptions of the new species are given, along with several new combinations for plants of that Island as well as from Cuba.
2807030|Four new species are described and illustrated: Coussapoa fulvescens, C. tolimensis, and C. valaria from Colomibia, and Pourouma napoensis from Ecuador.
2805695|An endemic, yellow ray-flowered species of Townsendia is described as T. aprica from Sevier Co., Utah. It is apparently most closely related to T. montana Nutt. of western Montana and Wyoming south to southern Utah and T. mensana M. E. Jones of northern and Western Utah and adjacent Nevada.
2805547|Bidens ctenophylla and B. menziesii var. filiformis are two heterozygous, self-fertile but outcrossing, interfertile taxa. A relatively fertile intermediate population occurs on the "hybridized habitat" of a recent lava flow. This population contains some individuals which are similar to B. ctenophylla, some which are similar to B. menziesii var. filiformis, and many individuals of various intermediate forms. Variation studies of greenhouse populations of the two species, the $F_1$ hybrid, the $F_2$ hybrid, and the progeny of three wild intermediates confirm the field observation that the wild intermediate population is a product of natural hybridization between B. ctenophylla and B. menziesii var. filiformis. The analysis of two interspecific characters, stem anthocyanin and achene awns, indicates that each is polygenic and is regulated by relatively few genes.
2806522|This paper updates the orchid flora of the Bahama Archipelago since the publication of the Flora of the Bahama Archipelago. It includes the descriptions of two natural hybrids, Encyclia Xlleidae and Encyclia Xraganii, heretofore unknown. In addition, this paper reports the distributional extensions of seven orchid taxa.
2807414|A large amount of unmounted material of Crataegus (Rosaceae) at Carnegie Museum (CM) was studied and found to include types of species described by C. S. Sargent from western Pennsylvania. These are of interest because Sargent's Crataegus types were previously thought to be only at the Arnold Arboretum (A). Sargent's method of choosing types (designating a living "type tree" and citing several specimens collected from it) is discussed and clarified. Crataegus types at A were compared with the material at CM. An annotated list of the western Pennsylvanian types in both herbaria is presented.
2805686| These studies deal with Hawaiian Hedyotis and Gouldia, and with Coprosma in Juan Fernndez. The Species Coprosma Oliveri is described as new, as is Gouldia terminalis (Hook. & Arn.) Hillebr. var. pubistipula, and three forms of Hedyotis acuminata (Cham. & Schlecht.) Steud. 
2805723|Sixteen taxa were classified using 20 characters. Similarity between pairs of taxa for each character was based upon non-significance of their respective means using Duncan's Multiple Range Test at the five percent level. The results are presented in the form of a similarity matrix and a phenogram. This study suggests that there are three major sub-groups within the genus.
2805271|Soils high in magnesium derived from ultramafic rocks (serpentine, peridotite, and dunite) in northwestern United States support endemic as well as wide-ranging but edaphically indifferent (bodenvag) species. The latter occur widely on diverse rock formations of the region. Several bodenvag species are shown to respond ecotypically to ultramafic soils. Of 18 species tested, all but three are differentiated into strains either tolerant or intolerant of ultramafic soils. Tests for edaphic preferences were conducted with seedlings and mature transplants on ultramafic soils. Growth performances were determined in green-house pot tests, outdoor soil bins, and by transplants in the wild. Herbaceous perennials (e.g., Achillea millefolium, Fragaria virginiana, Prunella vulgaris, Rumex acetosella) gave the clearest ecotypic differences. Woody species either showed only slight ecotypic response (Spiraea douglasii var. menziessi and Gaultheria shallon) or delayed the expression of their genotypic adaptability (Pinus contorta). Where ultramafic abut non-ultramafic soils, those populations of bodenvag species that grow in non-ultramafic habitats can have a significant proportion of individuals tolerant to ferromagnesian soils (e.g., Achillea millefolium). This suggests gene flow between populations of contrasting edaphic sites and possibly preadaptedness for the ultramafic habitat. Strains of two introduced weeds (Prunella vulgaris and Rumex acetosella) have become ecotypically tolerant to ultramafic soils, probably within the last 75 years.
40792899|Orthophytum vidaliorum, a new species from Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated, and its relationship to Orthophytum itambense is discussed. Orthophytum vidaliorum, urna nova espcie de Minas Grais Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e as relaces com Orthophytum itambense sao discutidas.
4099022|Govenia rubellilabia, a new terrestrial orchid from Sierra Madre de Chiapas, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Diagnostic characters of this new species are compared with other species of Govenia. Govenia rubellilabia is similar in appearance to G. matudae, but it can be distinguished from this species by a shorter inflorescence with fewer flowers, green-yellowish tepals, a reddish lip lacking spots in the margin of the apex, and by a shorter anther beak.
2807408|Erigeron campanensis, sect. Erigeron, is described as new from Central Chile (Cerro Campana, near Valparaiso). It is most similar to E. fasciculatus, from which it differs in leaf shape, leaf arrangement, pubescence of leaves, stems, and phyllaries, and stigmatic branches of disc florets.
2666582|Simaba guianensis subsp. huberi (Simaroubaceae), restricted to the savannas of the Venezuelan State of Amazonas, is described and illustrated. The new subspecies is distinguished from the other two subspecies of S. guianensis by its smaller size, characteristics of the leaflets (size, texture, apex shape, and margin curvature), and fruit color.
2807108|A new Catasetum species from Brazil, Catasetum confusum, is described and illustrated. This widely cultivated species had been referred previously to Catasetum ornithoides Pabst.
41406792|Dos especies nuevas de Borreria son descritas: la primera, Borreria johnwoodii del cerrado del Parque Nacional Noel Kempff Mercado; la segunda, Borreria siberiana del Bosque Nublado Yungueo entre 2600 y 3100 m sobre el nivel del mar. Declieuxia cordigera es registrado por primera vez para Bolivia. Borreria nectarifera es tratado como sinnimo de B. eryngioides var. affinis. Two new species of Borreria are described: the first, Borreria johnwoodii from the Campo Cerrado area of the Noel Kempff Mercado National Park; the second, Borreria siberiana from the cloud forest of the Yungas, between 2600 and 3100 m above sea level. Declieuxia cordigera is recorded for the first time from Bolivia. Borreria nectarifera is shown to be synonymous with B. eryngioides var, affinis.
2807505|Osmorhiza berteroi DC. is the correct name for the mountain sweet-cicely hitherto called O. chilensis Hook. & Arn. or O. berterii DC.
2666588|The two species of Peratanthe, a genus allegedly endemic to the greater Antilles, are shown to be entirely within the variation range of Nertera granadensis (L.f.) Druce var. granadensis, a wide-spread, often weedy species.
2805576|The following species of Gastroboletus are described as new: G. subalpinus, G. xerocomoides, G. suilloides, G. imbellus, and G. amyloideus. All of these species have been found in the western portion of the United States. Comments on two previously known species from this region are included. Brief statements are also presented on the possible origin and evolution of this taxon of fungi.
2806545|Fissidens austro-americanus, from Brazil and Suriname, is described, illustrated, and its relationship to F. brevipes, F. ramicola, and F. leptophyllus discussed.
23254244|Se describe e ilustra Holographis lizethae (Acanthaceae), una especie nueva de Guerrero, Mxico. Esta especie guarda similitud con Holographis pallida, sin embargo difiere de ella por presentar margen de la hoja revoluto, brcteas deltadas, cimbiformes, la corola ms grande y con posicin vertical en antesis, los estambres y estilo ms largos, as como distribucin y periodo de floracin diferentes. Holographis lizethae (Acanthaceae), a new species from Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. This new species is similar to Holographis pallida, but differs by the revolute leaf margin, deltate-cymbiform bracts, larger corolla held vertically in anthesis, longer stamens and style, and by its distribution and flowering period.
2806460|Two new species and a new combination of Sigesbeckia are proposed, the latter being a species-transfer from the genus Trigonospermum. A new species of Trigonospermum is also proposed. Heretofore, these two genera have been placed in different subtribes: Trigonospermum in Melampodiinae; Sigesbeckia in Verbesininae, the former being distinguished by its sterile disk florets. This is believed to be a technical distinction, reliance upon which creates unnatural alliances. It is proposed that the description of Sigesbeckia be emended such as to possess either fertile or sterile disk florets.
2807155|Three new species of Myrtaceae (Calyptranthes bracteata, Eugenia gongylocarpa, and Myrcia rupta) from northeastern South America are described and illustrated, and a new combination (Eugenia tetramera) is proposed. The closed-calyx and the completely or partially fused cotyledons of Myrcia rupta, unusual features for the genus, are discussed and compared with related species in Myrcia and Marlierea.
2807303| Senecio galicianus var. manantlanensis (section Palmatinervii) occurs in cooler, moister habitats at higher elevations of the Sierra de Manantln that the typical variety. Morphological, ecological, and phenological data support maintaining S. galicianus and S. Kerberi as species separate from the closely related S. Roldana and treating the new taxon as a variety of S. galicianus. Although var. manantlanensis tends to have larger and less deeply and sharply lobed leaves than var. galicianus, t-tests and discriminant analyses demonstrate that the best diagnostic characters are the fewer but longer phyllaries and florets in its heads. 
3218500|Four new species, Justicia oldemanii, J. mcdowellii, J. wilhelminensis, and J. prevostiae are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives. A key to species of Justicia from the Guianas is also provided.
2805756| Lophophora, commonly called peyote, has an extensive range within the Chihuahuan Desert of Texas and Mexico. Selected sites were studied and growth characteristics, soils, associated plants, and climate are described. The genus consists of two species, L. williamsii and L. diffusa. The former is both wide-ranging and highly variable morphologically, whereas the latter consists of a single, fairly small population restricted to an area in the state of Quertaro. Synonymy and types are discussed, and a key to the species is included with the descriptions. 
30218796|Dalea pseudocorymbosa is described from the western part of the state of Durango, Mexico. It is referred to Dalea subgenus Parosela section Parosela series Psoraleoides. It is morphologically most similar to Dalea tomentosa var. mota but is distinguished from it by characters of the leaf, inflorescence, and flower. /// Dalea pseudocorymbosa es descrita de la parte oeste del estado de Durango, Mxico. Pertenece al subgnero Parosela seccin Parosela serie Psoraleoides. Es morfolgicamente muy similar a Dalea tomentosa var. mota pero se distingue de esta por sus caracteres de hoja, inflorescencia y flores.
2806870|Aulonemia fulgor shares with most species of this primarily South American genus a paniculate inflorescence, unbranched spikelets (i.e., not pseudospikelets), and weak or scandent culms that bear a single branch at the node. It is unusual in its amphipodial rhizomes and distinctive leaf anatomy in which, unlike most bamboos, the more complex epidermis is the adaxial.
2806701|The study of type material has revealed that Archilejeunea pabstii Steph. is a later name for Leucolejeunea xanthocarpa (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Evans and that Hygrolejeunea pacifica Steph. is synonymous with Cheilolejeunea intertexta (Lindenb.) Steph. Complete description and illustration is provided for Hygrolejeunea spongia (Spruce) Schiffn., which is transferred to Lepidolejeunea.
2807109|Bursera inversa is the first new species of the genus to be described from South America in 90 years. The ecology of this species is remarkable because it is a large (to 25 m x 40 cm or greater) canopy tree of primary moist to wet lowland forest. It is easily distinguished from its congeners by its large, obovoid fruits and bony pyrene. A key to the South American species of Bursera is provided.
2806549|Sabal miamiensis, a species endemic to the Miami pinelands of south Florida, is described and illustrated. It is shown to be morphologically and ecologically distinct from S. etonia and S. palmetto.
2806356|In view of the significance recently ascribed to the uppermost Oligocene-lowermost Miocene fossil Viguiera cronquistii, a putative composite head, a reinvestigation of the type material was considered desirable. The type specimen was obtained on loan from the New York Botanical Garden and investigated with all applicable standard paleobotanical techniques. The specimen consists of a laterally compressed globular head terminally attached to a short stalk. The head is composed of from 5-7 ranks of from 12-15 spirally arranged linear-lanceolate bracts with some smaller ovate bracts near the base. The stalk bears bracts that are proximally appressed and free distally. There is no sign of cuticle, pollen, detailed impressions of cells or any structural presevation beyond gross morphology. There is no structural corroboration for the presumption that the head is composed of anything besides bracts. The type specimen is indeed similar in gross morphology to heads of Viguiera. It is equally similar to the inflorescences of angiosperms other than the composites and even to the cones of certain gymnosperms. This fossil cannot be considered unequivocally to be the remains of a composite.
2666571|The genus Agave (Agavaceae) is revised taxonomically for the Lesser Antilles. All 12 previously recognized species are placed into synonymy under Agave karatto Miller. A neotype is selected for the name Agave karatto, and lectotypes are designated for A. barbadensis Trel., A. medioxima Trel., A. obducta Trel., A. vangrolae Trel., and A. ventum-versa Trel. Specimens are cited for most of the Lesser Antillean islands. That the Caribbean agaves are similar to the Mexican Agave nayaritensis Gentry is supported. The hypothesis that the pattern of partial sterility, clonality, and minimal morphological differentiation of the Lesser Antillean agaves is related to prehistoric human activity is developed based on similar patterns among mainland agaves and historical information. Uses for the archaeological "Barbados shell tool" may have included decorticating agave leaves for fiber extraction.
2806631|Clathea libbyana from Napo Province, Ecuador, is described. It belongs to the dimorphic-bracted species-group of Calathea series Comosae. It is in cultivation under the cultivar name "Windows", which refers to its distinctive leaf pattern with pale, semi-translucent markings.
3218347| Except for a robust habit, two specimens of Aloina collected in northern Argentina are morphologically similar and are tentatively attributed to A. rigida (Hedw.) Limpr. This represents an addition to the moss flora of Argentina. In addition, two specimens of Aloinella represent significant findings: one shows features that agree with those given in the protologue for A. galeata (Mll. Hal.) Broth. and is treated here as A. galeata var. galeata to show the relationship to A. galeta var. andina (Delgad.) Delgadillo & Schiavone stat. nov.; the other belongs in A. cucullifera (Mitt.) Steere, a new record for Argentina. A key to the known species of Aloinella with updated ranges is included. 
2806206|Lagenospermum imparirameum Arnold, originally described from a few specimens of cupulate seeds borne on two or three times dichotomous branches, is now shown to be borne on more complex branching systems. Details of the cupule and seed morphology are added and an amended diagnosis of the taxon is given. A new species, Gnetopsis hispida, is described as the third occurence of this genus and the first occurrence in beds of Lower Mississippian Age in North America. The classification, evolutionary implications, and dispersal biology are discussed for each of the seeds.
2805811|Meiotic and mitotic counts for all major taxa within Chelone show a euploid series: 2n = 28, 56, 84. A base number of x = 14 is suggested. The distribution of numbers supports some previous taxonomic decisions. It raises questions about others, particularly those involving the C. glabra-C. Obliqua complex. A root-tip technique involving digestion by "Pectinase" is described.
2805656|Natural populations of Nuphar luteum in the coastal plain of North Carolina present a morphological and geographical cline with ssp. macrophyllum representing one extreme and ssp. sagittifolium the other. Plants of intermediate morphology exist in abundance in areas between the two extremes. Data involving 1) analysis of variance within and among clones, 2) analysis of variation in seedling populations cultured under uniform conditions, 3) analysis of seedlings produced through artificial hybridization, and 4) reciprocal transplantation indicate the morphological cline to be genetically controlled with the leaf length-width ratio being the most constant and reliable feature for identification. An analysis of competitive and non-competitive populations within one pond provides evidence that natural selection of specific mature clones occurs under competitive conditions. Likewise, an analysis of the seedling potential of adult populations along the cline indicates that, in nature, a strong selection mechanism is operative during seed germination and/or seedling establisment. Chemical analyses of the aquatic habitats along the cline show several gradients to be correlated with the morphological cline. By extrapolation of the data, the variability evident in Nuphar, not only among subspecies but also among populations and clones, is considered to result from adaptation to environmental selection pressures.
2805572|The genus Bletilla has been variously placed in the major classifications of the Orchidaceae. This study attempts to provide a better understanding of the relationships of this genus and to clarify its systematic position. A survey is provided of the taxonomic assignments of Bletilla in major classifications of the Orchidaceae, and morphological comparisons are made of species chosen to represent the genera Bletilla, Arethusa, and Bletia. Chromosome numbers reported for Bletilla and Bletia are summarized, and confirmatory counts of 2n = 32 are reported for Bletilla striata and B. striata f. gebina. A preliminary report is provided on intergeneric crossing studies. It was found that Bletilla consistently shows greater similarity to Bletia than to Arethusa. It is suggested, therefore, that Bletilla be removed from the subtribe Arethusinae and placed near Bletia in the Bletiinae.
2806440|The palm genus Mauritiella is reconsidered, and six species are placed in synonymy with Mauritia.
2806367|In a mixed population of Andropogon glomeratus var. pumilus and A. longiberbis in Lake County, Florida, there were six individuals morphologically intermediate between and less fertile than these two taxa. In a discriminant analysis using two characters, spikelet length and raceme sheath width, the putative hybrid plants are significantly different from both parents (P < 0.01). Reproductive isolation of these taxa in other mixed populations comes, at least in part, from a combination of nonsynchronous flowering and cleistogamy.
2805669|Three taxa of the Solidago canadensis L. complex are recognized for the Great Plains region: S. canadensis L. var. scabra Torr. & Gray, S. canadensis L. var. gilvocanescens Rydb., and S. canadensis L. var. hargeri Fern. Confusion has resulted from the use of var. gilvocanescens for two different plants: a short- leaved prairie ecotype most closely related to var. scabra and a short-haired from of S. canadensis var. hargeri. The name rightly belongs to the former.
2805976|A green-flowered wild ginger from southern Oregon, previously named Asarum caudatum Lindl. var. viridiflorum Peck, is recognized as an independent species, A. wagneri Lu & Mesler, illustrated and discussed.
2805936|Limmanthes floccosa Howell is a variable autogamous species of recent origin. The phenetic relationships of a large number of populations of L. floccosa were studied using taximetric techniques. Five sub-species are recognized in L. floccosa on the basis of the teximetric results. Limmanthes floccosa ssp. californica and L. floccosa ssp. grandiflora are described as new, and L. floccosa ssp. pumila and L. floccosa ssp. bellingeriana are proposed as new combinations. Aspects of autogamy responsible for the highly discrete pattern of variation in L. floccosa are discussed.
2805689|Introgression between two allopatric species, Quercus macrocarpa and Q. gambelii,has been observed in two separate locations: northeastern New Mexico and the Black Hills of western South Dakota and adjacent Wyoming. The probability that this intogression is the result of long-range pollination appears remote. Presumably these two species hybridized during a period of past sympatric association. Further indication of past sympatry in the Black Hills is the presence of a common species of obligate parasite, i.e., wasp (Cynips insulensis) on Q. gambelii in the Rocky Mountains and on Q. macrocarpa of the Black Hills. The hybrid oaks in New Mexico probably reflect a westward migration of Q. macrocarpa during pluvial periods of the Pleistocene. Quercus gambelii most likely reached the Black Hills during the warmer postglacial hypsithermal era. The hibridization reported here may reflect secondary sympatry, i.e., sympatric occurrence after the species, or their ancestors, became geographically separated.
2807695|Two new species, Mendoncia bahiensis and Mendoncia blanchetiana, of the subgenus Bremekampia are described and illustrated. A key to four species represented in Bahia and commentary on their taxonomic affinities are provided.
2807049|Lupinus elaphoglossum Barneby, related to L. crotalarioides Mart. ex Benth., but differing in leaves and stipules, is described and illustrated.
2806049|The new species Tapura panamensis Prance is described as the first record of its genus from Central America. A key to Tapura updates that of the Flora Neotropica monograph and a list of exsiccatae studied since the monograph is given.
40793375|Two new species of Leptolobium from Brazil are described and illustrated. Leptolobium araguaiense, restricted to northern Brazil, is similar to L. panamense, but differs in raceme length, ovary pubescence, flower and bract length, hilum shape, habit, geographical distribution, and preferential habitat. Leptolobium multijugum, from midwestern Brazil, is perhaps most closely related to L. glaziovianum, but it has more numerous leaflets and smaller bracts and bracteoles than any other species in the genus.
2807573|The monotype Plagiolirion horsmannii has been re-collected from remnant forest of the Ro Cauca valley in Colombia, 94 years after its last known collection. Examination of mature fruits and seed clearly establishes the phylogenetic affinities of the genus with Eucharis, Caliphruria, and Urceolina and thus its placement in tribe Eucharideae of the Amaryllidaceae. A description of the genus and karyotype (2n = 46) are provided.
2805499|The taxa of the Interiores species group are treated as two species, one of which is divided into two subspecies. Vernonia missurica, a widespread taxon, has large flower heads (32-58 flowers per head), obtuse involucral bract tips, and a characteristic flavonoid chromatographic profile. Vernonia baldwinii ssp. baldwinii, occurring throughout the Ozarks and Ouachitas, and V. baldwinii ssp. interior of the Central Plains possess smaller flower heads (17-34 flowers per head), acute or acuminate involucral bracts, and a different chromatographic profile. Vernonia baldwinii ssp. baldwinii is distinguished from ssp. interior by the recurved involucral bract tips and by the possession of more flowers per head. Morphological data reveal that an integradation zone exists between the population systems of the two subspecies along the edges of the Ozarks and Ouachitas. Although much gene exchange occurs between these two taxa, they maintain a level of genetic integrity that permits their ready recognition throughout wide ranges. All three taxa have a gametic chromosome number of n = 17 and hybridize extensively with sympatric species.
2806580|Four previously much confused species of Lecythis, which form a coherent group of species collectively known in Brazil as "sapucaias," are described and differentiated in a key. A summary of their pollination and dispersal is presented as well as of their present-day distributions in relation to past geological and climatological events. Fruit variability, the cause of name proliferation in this group, is described and related to the problem of species concepts in the Lecythidaceae.
3218453| Species of the anomalous-stemmed complex of Heteropterys are revised after intensive fieldwork in eastern Brazil. Heteropterys patens (=H. anomala) is redefined, and three new species are described (H. admirabilis, H. imperata, and H. nordestina). In addition, this treatment provides brief synonymy, lectotypifications, illustrations, and comments for those four species, and a key to all taxa of the complex. /// [Spanish]Espcies do complexo de ramos anmalos de Heteropterys so revisadas com base em colees atualmente disponveis e em intensivo trabalho de campo realizado no leste do Brasil. Heteropterys patens (=H. anomala)  redefinida e trs novas espcies so descritas (H. admirabilis, H. imperata, e H. nordestina). Em adio, esse tratamento providencia breves sinnimos, lectotipificaes, ilustraes e comentrios para essas quatro espcies e uma chave analitica para todos os taxa do complexo. 
2805621|New species of Bletia from Mexico are described and illustrated: B. concolor, B. similis, and B. urbana. The identity of B. campanulata Llave & Lex. is discussed, and B. reflexa Lindl. is considered to be a distinct species. Several South American epithets are treated as synonyms of B. campanulata. A key to the recognized species of Bletia is given.
4497336| Blechnum moranianum is a new species similar to B. loxense, and B. nigrum is segregated from the B. fragile complex. Both are described and illustrated as result of the author's taxonomic fern work in Costa Rica. /// Blechnum moranianum es una especie nueva similar a B. loxense, y B. nigrum es segregada del complejo B. fragile. Ambas son aqu descritas e ilustradas como resultado de los trabajos taxonmicos del autor en los helechos de Costa Rica. 
2806753|Dalea (ser. Coeruleae) strobilacea from Cajamarca and La Libertad, Peru and D. (ser. Versicolores) daucosma from Nayarit, Mexico are described, compared with kindred, and illustrated.
2806360|The Zingiberidae are described as a new subclass, containing the orders Zingiberales and Bromeliales.
2666546|Three new species of Topobea are described from species-rich, humid forest environments in Costa Rica and Panama. Discussions, diagnostic illustrations, phenological notes, and a distribution map are provided for Topobea intricata, T. lentii, and T. mcphersonii.
2806255|The new species, Marila spiciformis from Amazonian Peru, is described and illustrated. Relationships with other species are discussed.
2807694|Variation in lateral awn lenght and pulvini development is described for A. pansa and A. gypsophila. The two species are distinguished by lateral awn development. Within each species, forms are based on pulvini development. Three new forms are described (A. pansa f. contracta; A. gypsophila f. gypsophiloides and f. diffusa), A. dissita is reduced to a form of A. pansa, and A. tehuacanensis is considered synonymous with A. pansa f. dissita. Keys, illustrations, and maps are provided.
2666543|The genus Otacanthus is revised, integrating results of morphological, chemical, and phytogeographic studies of herbarium specimens and living plants. Seven species and two varieties are recognized. One new species (O. fernandesii) is described and three new combinations (O. platychilus var. platychilus, O. platychilus var. longifolius, and O. azureus) are made. A key to the species is given, as well as descriptions, illustrations, ecology, distribution maps, and a citation of specimens. All species are endemic to southeastern Brazil (coastal region), with one species naturalized in other parts of Brazil, in the Mascarenes, and in the Seychelles.
2807734|T. spellenbergii from Chihuahua and T. beruloides from Michoacn and Mxico-are described as new.
2806079|Eucrosia tubiflora is described from Peru, and Eucrosia peruviana is transferred to Stenomesson as S. campanulatum.
2806180|Rostkovia magellanica has hitherto been considered a species of Patagonia and the subantarctic islands from New Zealand to South Georgia. An old report from Ecuador has been considered erroneous, but it has now been rediscovered there. Brief notes on the ecology of the species are given, and the possible origin of its distribution is discussed. Long-distance dispersal by birds is suggested as having caused the disjunct distribution on mainland South America.
2806450|Bryobrittonia pellucida was described by Williams in 1901 from a sterile specimen. He suggested a relationship with some members of the Pottiaceae. In 1953, Steere described the sporophyte of B. pellucida and placed it in the Encalyptaceae. The type of Encalypta longipes Mitten (1865), a fruiting specimen collected by Drummond in western Canada, is what is presently known as B. pellucida; therefore, the new combination, B. longipes, is made. The distinctive morphological and ecological features of the genus Bryobrittonia are described in relation to those of the genus Encalypta. On the basis of both sporophytic and gametophytic characteristics, E. streptocarpa and E. procera are the species most closely related to B. longipes.
40980902|Our recent molecular phylogenetic study revealed a previously unrecognized clade of six species that is sister to Elaphoglossum. Within this clade, four species are currently classified in Bolbitis, one in Lomagramma, and one in Acrostichum. For this clade, we propose the name Mickelia, with M. nicotianifolia as the type species. We also make new combinations for the species in our phylogenetic study shown to belong to Mickelia (M. bernoullii, M. guianensis, M. hemiotis, M. nicotianifolia, M. oligarchica, and M. scandens) and two other species believed to belong to the clade based on morphology (M. lindigii, M. pergamentacea). A new hybrid and two new species are also described (M. xatrans, M. furcata, and M. pradoi). In total, Mickelia consists often species and one hybrid. It is entirely neotropical. We provide a key to the genera of bolbitidoid ferns and a synopsis of Mickelia that gives for each species a complete synonymy, geographical distribution, comparative discussion, and illustration. Anlises filogenticas recentes revelaram a existencia de urna ciado composto por seis especies, irmo de Elaphoglossum. Das especies incluidas nestas anlises, quatro sao atualmente tratadas em Bolbitis, urna em Lomagramma, e urna em Acrostichum.A este ciado propomos o nome Mickelia, com M. nicotianifolia sendo sua espcie-tipo. Neste trabalho sao apresentadas as novas combinaoes para as especies de Mickelia, tanto as que foram tratadas as anlises filogenticas (M. bernoullii, M.guianensis, M. hemiotis, M. nicotianifolia, M. oligarchica e M. scandens), quanto para duas outras que sao aqu incluidas com base em evidencias morfolgicas (M. lindigii e M. pergamentacea).Um hbrido novo e duas especies novas sao tambm descritos (M. xatrans, M. furcata e M. pradoi). No total, Mickelia compreende dez especies e um hbrido. O gnero  inteiramente neotropical, e  caracterizado pelo hbito hemiepiftico, nervuras anastomosadas, e pela ausncia de gemas (essas, se presentes, surgindo prximas  junao da pina com a raque). So apresentadas urna chave para os gneros das samambaias bolbitidoides, e urna sinopse para Mickelia contendo urna lista completa de sinnimos, dados sobre distribuio geogrfica, discusses comparativas e ilustraes.
2805721|Keys, descriptions, and distribution maps are presented for the 12 spontaneously growing U.S. species of Phyllanthus (four of these are naturalized). These are discussed under the subgeneric taxa to which they belong-Subg. Isocladus sect. Paraphyllanthus: P. polygonoides, P. liebmannianus, P. ericoides; subg. Isocladus sect. Loxopodium: P. caroliniensis, P. pudens; subg. Kirganelia sect. Pentandra: P. tenellus; subg. Phyllanthus sect. Urinaria: P. urinaria; subg. Phyllanthus sect. Phyllanthus: P. niruri, P. fraternus, P. amarus, P. abnormis, and P. pentaphyllus. Only one new name, Phyllanthus liebmannianus ssp. platylepis, is proposed. The distribution patterns of the species are analyzed, and it is concluded that several of them, especially P. liebmannianus. P. niruri, and P. abnormis, show the effects of fragmentation of range presumably brought about during the Pleistocene glaciations.
2806768|A new tree species from Colombia, closely resembling other members of the neotropical genus Catostemman in its large one-seeded fruits, is described and illustrated. Catostemma digitata has palmately compound leaves, previously unknown in mature individuals of this genus.
2806880|A systematic study of more than 15,000 Myriophyllum specimens from 189 North American herbaria yielded 63 M. quitense specimens. Late 19th century collections were made from Henry's Fork of the Snake River in Jefferson County, Idaho, in 1872, from Santa Cruz Creek, Tucson, Pima County, Arizona, in 1881, from Yellowstone Lake in 1885, and from Crook County, Oregon, in 1894. Twentieth century collections have been made from Yellowstone National Park, at several sites along the Snake River in Idaho, in Summit County, Utah, in Lassen and Shasta counties of northern California, at numerous sites along the Deschutes River, and in Benton County, Oregon, and at three sites in Washington. We contend that the species was introduced into North America by migratory waterfowl more than 100 years ago. Only in the Yellowstone Lake and numerous Deschutes River habitats in which populations now exist are environmental conditions conducive to full morphological development of the species in North America.
2666489|The recently recognized western North American sections Brewerianae, Mexicanae, and Sitchenses in the genus Salix were studied in the field and herbarium. Sections Sitchenses and Brewerianae are here combined and placed under section Viminella as a subsection. Three species and an additional variety are recognized in subsection Sitchenses and seven species are recognized in section Mexicanae. Keys for identification and distribution maps are provided.
2806330|The distributions of 127 tree species, each with at least part of their range in the moist coastal forest of eastern Brazil, are analyzed. Of these, 53.5% are endemic to the coastal forest, 11.8% endemic to the coastal forest plus some part of the Planalto of Brazil, 7.8% disjunct with the Amazonian hylaea, and 26% widespread. This high endemism in the coastal forest of eastern Brazil, in view of its rapid destruction, emphasizes the need for increased preservation of the few remaining natural areas. In addition, this study supports the theory that there are at least two centers of endemism in the coastal forests, one centering aroung Rio de Janeiro and one in southern Bahia/Rio Doce, Espirito Santo. In order to protect the diverse flora of the coastal forests, preservation areas should be established intermittently along their entire length and especially in the centers of endemism.
2805477|In reviewing the Fijian Sapotaceae it was found necessary to describe three new species, Planchonella sessilis, Palaquium porphyreum, and Burckella parvifolia, and to propose one new combination, B. fijiensis (Chelonespermum fijiense Hemsl.).
30219397|Zornia subsessilis, a new species from Serra do Cabral, Minas Gerais State, Brazil, is described and illustrated on the basis of field and herbarium studies. It belongs to Zornia section Zornia of subgenus Zornia and it appears to be restricted to "campo rupestre" (rocky fields) within the "cerrado" biome. This new species is characterized by its sessile to subsessile leaves, fruits with articles 4 to 5 mm long and with bristles up to 3.5 mm long.
2805959|Aristolochia pfeiferi, from Panama, and A. cruenta, from Costa Rica, are described. A. chapmaniana Standl. is placed in synonymy under A. tonduzii Schmidt. A. belizensis Lundell is placed in synonymy under A. ovalifolia Duchartre, and A. petenensis Lundell is placed in synonymy under A. bullata Pfeifer. The status of A. steyermarkii Standl. is reevaluated.
2806543|The suffruticose Agalinis chaparensis is a Bolivian species distinguished by its scabrous, ovate leaves and long, glabrous pedicels. The herbaceous Agalinis pennellii from Cuzco, Peru, is distinguished by its erect habit and long-acuminate calyx lobes.
2806125|Morphological and cytological studies of mass collections from the southwestern United States and Baja California, and morphological studies on herbarium specimens from these areas and northern Mexico have been used to solve a taxonomic problem within the genus Wislizenia. Canonical analysis of morphological data from mass collections separates three geographic groups from: California, Baja California, and states east of California. A similar analysis of herbarium specimens collected throughout the range of Wislizenia refracta confirms the reality of these groups, for which the status of subspecies is proposed: 1) subsp. californica from the California central valley, 2) subsp. palmeri from Baja California and the Sonoran coast, and 3) subsp. refracta from states east of California. This taxonomic treatment differs from any of the varied previous ones. Chromosome numbers for six of the mass collections were found to be n = 20, in agreement with other reports.
2805729| Three new South American legumes are described: Acosmium cardenasii (Leguminosae: Sophoreae) known only from the type locality, San Ignacio de Velasco, Bolivia; Moldenhauera nitida (Leguminosae: Caesalpinioideae) from the southeastern flanks of the Serra do Espinhaco in the State of Minas Gerais, Brazil; and Sclerolobium prancei (Leguminosae: Caesalpinioideae) known only from the Rio Madeira headwaters, Territory of Rondnia, Brazil. A key to the Brazilian species of Moldenhauera is included. 
2806541|Silene nachlingerae is described, illustrated, and compared to S. aperta. The similarly flowered S. invisa is considered to be closely related to S. bernardina, and especially to its var. rigidula (Robinson) Tiehm, comb nov.
2806239|Two new species are described in Arberella, one from Panama (Arberella lancifolia) and one from Bahia, Brazil (A. bahiensis), the latter representing a considerable extension of the known range of the genus. Cryptochloa decumbens, described from Panama, brings to ten the species recognized in this genus and Raddia angustifolia, from Bahia, increases to five the number of species in that genus. Each new species is fully illustrated and keyed.
3218493|Vantanea ovicarpa, a new species from French Guiana, is described and illustrated.
2666604|The purpose of this study is to determine the floristic affinities of pteridophytes between the Neotropics and Africa-Madagascar and examine how these affinities might have arisen. We present an annotated list that contains two kinds of affinities: 1) species in common between both regions (excluding pantropical species) and 2) species pairs (or clusters of species pairs) where one of the species (or infrageneric group) occurs in the Neotropics and the other in Africa and/or Madagascar. There are 114 examples on the list, of which 27 are same-species and 87 are species pairs or closely related taxa at some infrageneric level. About 13% of the African pteridoflora and 14% of the Madagascan pteridoflora show affinities with the Neotropics. To determine how these similarities might have originated, we assess three hypotheses: 1) the boreotropics hypothesis, 2) continental drift, and 3) long-distance dispersal. The boreotropics hypothesis is difficult to assess without further phylogenetic information on the groups to which the species belong. Continental drift seems to best explain one example in the geologically old family Schizaeaceae (species in Anemia subgen. Coptophyllum sect. Tomentosae). Nearly all the other examples seem best explained by long-distance dispersal because they belong to families that first appeared during the Paleocene, more than 30 million years after drift had effectively separated South America and Africa. Most of the dispersal events appear to have taken place from the Neotropics to Africa-Madagascar, but recent African extinctions may have obscured directionality. Species with green spores or gemmiferous gametophytes were slightly overrepresented on the list compared to pteridophytes as a whole.
2805935|Cordia thaisiana is described as new from the state of Zulia, Venezuela. It can be distinguished from other species in the section by the inconspicuously nerved calyx, the flower disk fused with the ovary, and by the glabrous branches and leaf blades. A key is provided for the species of Cordia sect. Gerascanthus growing in northern South America.
2805532|Two species of Stereum are discussed. One, S. macrocystidiatum from Java, is described as new; the other, S. illudens Berk., is redescribed from Mexico-Guatemala collections. Study of this material leads to the conclusion that Xylobolus Karst. emend. Boidin cannot be maintained as distinct from Stereum Hill ex S. F. Gray. Subgeneric distinctions between these two groups of species are also rejected.
2805462|Taxonomic and distributional notes are given for the following marine algae, which are reported for the first time from the central tropical Pacific Ocean: Dermocorynus occidentalis, Ceramium paniculatum, C. hamatispinum, Spirocladia barodensis, Symphyocladia marchantioides, Lophosiphonia cristata, L. prostrata, Exophyllum wentii. The ranges of Ralfsia pangoensis and Murrayella periclados are extended. Falkenbergiella caespitosa is shown to be referable to Polysiphomia caespitosa (Pcock) comb. nov.
2666617|Two new species of Sisymbrium are described from the Department of Arequipa in south-western Peru. Both are annuals from the loma vegetation. Sisymbrium lactucoides has glabrous leaves with clasping bases and is very distinct. Sisymbrium ferreyrae is probably closest to S. llatasii, but it is a much smaller plant with petals and sepals of subequal length (vs. petals longer than sepals in S. llatasii).
2807699|Bletia antillana (Orchidaceae), a species restricted to eastern Cuba, is described and illustrated. This species is similar to Bletia purpurea but differs by the following: 1) the leaves always present during anthesis; 2) flower is semi-erect; 3) flower parts larger; 4) dorsal and lateral sepals straight; 4) petal curved, enclosing the column and the lateral lobes of the lip; 5) lip whitish at base, rose-purple at the apex of the lateral lobe, and yellow at the callus; and 6) lip obovate, with a quadrangular midlobe curved downward.
2805658|Iris tenax and I. chrysophylla were collected along a linear transect extending through narrow areas of sympatry from two sites in the Willamette River drainage of western Oregon. Statistical analysis of correlations between morphological characteristics was used to construct a hybrid index for each species. Morphological evaluation and 2-dimensional paper chromatography of the major flavonoid constituents were prepared on a plant by plant basis along the transects. The combined morphological and chemical data indicated that hybridization was occurring and that, in contrast to previous reports, introgression was taking place in each of the parental species.
2666628|Sechium mexicanum is described as a new species of Sechium sect. Frantzia. It differs from the remaining species of the section by several features of the inflorescences and staminate flowers, the obovoid and completely unarmed fruits, and pollen grains with 9-10 narrow, poorly defined colpi. It is endemic to Mexico and the first member of sect. Frantzia to be recorded outside of Central America. It grows at 900-2300 m in mesophilous forests and in oak and pineoak forests in the states of Hidalgo, Puebla, Queretaro, and Veracruz.
40648182|Seven species of Megalastrum have been generally recognized in the West Indies. In this treatment, we recognize nine species for the region, five of which are endemic. We describe a new species (M. angustum), make three new combinations (M. caribaeum, M. gilbertii, M. martinicense), and for all species provide keys, descriptions, complete synonymy, discussions, specimens examined, and illustrations.
3218340|A lectotype for the name Mentzelia multiflora var. integra is selected and a new combination in Mentzelia (Loasaceae) is made. A key to the varieties of Mentzelia marginata is included.
2807757|The new combinations Conyza laevigata (Astereae), Praxelis diffusa (Eupatoriae), and Riencourtia pedunculosa (Heliantheae) are made. Conyza laevigata includes C. apurensis; Praxelis diffusa includes P. pauciflora and the type of the genus, P. villosa; and Riencourtia pedunculosa includes R. glomerata and R. spiculifera, the type of the genus. Lectotypes are designated for names of five species described by Richard. The current names of othe species of Compositae described by Richard in 1792 are given, including the reduction of Eupatorium incisum to Chromolaena odorata. Labeling errors are discussed, and the type of Erigeron laevigatus is taken to be from the West Indies. Riencourtia is newly documented for Bolivia and Panama.
2806185|Astragalus columbianus, know from only two collections, was designated as rare, endangered and probably extinct. This species has been rediscovered and, While occupying a strip only 0.1 by about 10 km, is vigorous and in no immediate danger.
2806042|Chorizanthe watsonii Torr. & Gray is lectotypified on Torrey 435 (NY) collected in the Humboldt Mountains of Nevada in 1865. A fragment of the lectotype is at GH.
30219390|A new species, Cuscuta cotijana, is described and illustrated from the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt in northwestern Michoacn, Mexico. The species is most closely related to Cuscuta jalapensis, C. mitriformis, C. rugosiceps and C. lindsayi, from which it differs by the large spur-like projections on the outer calyx lobes and the ovoid to conical capsule with a small intrastylar aperture.
2806940|New species of Coccoloba are described from Mexico (Coccoloba ortizii), Honduras (Coccoloba cholutecensis), Panama (Coccoloba gentryi and C. johnstonii), Venezuela (Coccoloba yaracuyensis), and Brazil (Coccoloba bullata). Recent collections have permitted the re-examination of species from Central and South America. Coccoloba escuintlensis Lundell, C. floribunda (Bentham) Lindau, and C. williamsii Standley, which had been placed in synonymy, are now re-established. The following species have been placed in synonymy after the examination of additional collections: Coccoloba itzana Lundell, C. matudai Lundell, C. oligocarpa Lundell, C. petensis Lundell, C. tenuis Lundell, C. verapazensis Lundell, C. viridis Lundell, C. ecuadorensis Brandbyge, C. trollii Brandbyge and C. inaequilatera Rizzini.
2807872|Gundlachia, a genus of shrubs occurring in the Caribbean islands, is treated as comprising two species, one of which has six varieties. Five new combinations are made: Gundlachia corymbosa var. apiculata (Britton & S. F. Blake) M. A. Lane, G. corymbosa var. compacta (Urb & Ekman) M. A. Lane, G. corymbosa var. cubana (Britton & S. F. Blake) M. A. Lane, G. corymbosa var. foliosa (Briton & S. F. Blake) M. A. Lane, and G. corymbosa var. ocoana (Urb. & Ekman) M. A. Lane. Gundlachia is probably most closely related to Gymnosperma.
2805484|Documented chromosome numbers and meiotic behavior are recorded for an additional 30 taxa representing 25 species of Cactaceae of southwestern United State and northern Mexico. Diploid and polyploid taxa including two triploids were observed, all of which indicate the same base number, x = 11. Trisomism and inversions are reported for the first time in cacti.
2805649|Variation within the Vernonia lindheimeri complex was investigated in a biosystematic study. The results of this study with keys, descriptions, synonymies, and distribution maps are presented. Present evidence indicates that Vernonia lindheimeri var. lindheimeri and V. lindheimeri var. leucophylla should best be treated as two distinct species, the latter as V. larsenii. Vernonia guadalupensis and V. reverchonii are recognized as hybrids.
30218768|Confusion over three taxa of Calamus in China-C. oxycarpus, C. oxycarpus var. angustifolius, and C. macrorhynchus-is resolved. Calamus oxycarpus var. angustifolius is recognized at the species level, as C. albidus. A key, complete descriptions, and distribution maps are given for the three species.
2807092|Cymopterus evertii, from Park and Hot Springs counties, Wyoming, is described as new. It appears to be a derivative taxon from what has been called C. bipinnatus. Data are presented justifying the relegation of the latter name to synonymy under C. nivalis. A key is provided for distinguishing C. evertii from its presumed closest relatives.
2806517|A new species, Simaba cavalcantei, is described and illustrated. It is considered to be intermediate between sections Grandiflorae and Floribundae and is distinguished from potentially sympatric species in a key to the species occurring north of the Amazon River.
2666574|Rhynchospora depressirostris M. Strong, an overlooked species of Rhynchospora sect. Tenues Kukenthal, previously treated in the literature as R. tenuis Link, is described from Puerto Rico. An illustration and SEM images of the achene (fruit) are provided, and its relationship to closely allied and morphologically similar species is discussed.
2805633|The intraspecific variation found within Maieta guianensis Aublet is discussed, and a new variety, M. guianensis Aublet var. leticiana Whiffin, is described. The variation found within M. poeppigii Mart. ex Triana is compared to that within M. guianensis, and a possible vegetative difference between the two species is discussed. A key to the taxa is provided.
2806133|Northwest of Lake Izabal, Guatemala, g. C. Jones and L. Facey collected in 1966 abundant material of what we have called Macromitrium crumianum Steere & Buck. This new species is characterized by linear-lanceolate leaves which are long acuminate, with leaf cells which are smooth and linear throughout, a smooth seta and capsule, and a naked calyptra. It is most closely related to M. dubium Schimp. of the West Indies and perhaps also to M. leprieurii Mont. (M. dussii Broth.) of the West Indies, French Guiana and Suriname.
2805822|A numerical taxonomic study was conducted on the common narrow-leaved members of the genus Chenopodium that occur in the western United States. As many as six and as few as two species have been recognized. Thirty-five individual populations were used as OTU's, and 35 characters were considered. The data were subjected to cluster (both the weighted-pair group method and the within-group dispersion method) and principal component analysis. The results of both analyses are in general agreement and suggest phenetic relationships that differ from current interpretations in the literature. It is concluded that C. desiccatum var. leptophylloides is much more closely related phenetically to C. atrovirens (and may not be distinct from it) than it is to C. desiccatum var. desiccatum. Chenopodium hians and C. leptophyllum appear to be phenetically distinct despite the fact that they have sometimes been viewed as conspecific. Chenopodium subglabrum is not very similar to C. leptophyllum, and should probably be treated as a separate species rather than as a variety of the latter. Populations referable to C. incognitum form a rather loose cluster that appears somewhat intermediate between populations of C. desiccatum var. leptophylloides, C. atrovirens, C. hians, and C. leptophyllum.
30218801|La especie nueva Thinouia restingae, de las regiones nordeste y sudeste de Brasil, es descrita, ilustrada y comparada con la especie ms prxima, T ventricosa. Adicionalmente se describen caracteres de venacin de los fololos y micromorfolgicos del polen. La especie nueva pertenece a Thinouia seccin Petalodine, la cual se caracteriza por los ptalos iguales o mayores que el apndice. Tambin se presenta una clave para todas las especies de Thinouia reportadas hasta la fecha para Brasil. /// A new species, Thinouia restingae, from northeastern and southeastern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared to its putative closest relative, T ventricosa. Additionally, venation characters of the leaflets and micromorphological characters of pollen grains are described. The new species belongs to Thinouia section Petalodine, which is characterized by petals that are equal or longer than their appendage. A key to species of Thinouia presently known from Brazil is also included.
2807347|Calycogonium squamulosum Cogn., a Puerto Rican endemic, is shown properly to be placed in Henriettea DC. (including Henriettella Naud.), and this transfer is made. The species is allied to several other lepidote taxa of Henriettea, e.g., H. squamata (Alain) Alain and H. acunae (Alain) Alain (all endemic to the Oriente region of Cuba). Calycogonium squamulosum is also compared to the Hispaniolan endemic, Henriettea barkeri (Urban & Ekman) Alain [syn. H. elliptica (Urban) Alain], a species with stellate to stellate-strigose hairs.
2806831|Casimirella Hassler (1913) is accepted and Humirianthera Huber (1914) considered a synonym. Casimirella diversifolia and C. lanata from Brazil are described as new species. Casimirella ampla (Miers) based on Leretia ampla Miers, C. crispula (Howard) based on Humirianthera crispula Howard, and C. rupestris (Ducke) based on Humirianthera repestris Ducke are new combinations.
2806574|Seven new taxa, mainly from the Guayana Highland of Venezuela, are described. These include four new species (Cottendorfia atrorosea, Navia emergens, Navia ovoidea, and Pitcairnia nematophora) and one new variety (Cottendorfia brachyphylla var. angustior) of Bromeliaceae, one new species (Swartzia cowanii) of Leguminosae, and one new species (Marlierea pudica) of Myrtaceae.
2807199|Banisteriopsis caapi, Brugmansia suaveolens, and Nicotiana tabacum are the principal hallucinogens used by the Shuar and related ethnic groups in Amazonian Ecuador and Peru. These three species are common hallucinogens throughout northwestern Amazonia. Banisteriopsis caapi (natem) is the hallucinogen most frequently employed by the Shuar. The Shuar drink the juice of N. tabacum during natem healing ceremonies. They also believe that smoke from N. tabacum cigarettes repel evil spirits. Brugmansia suaveolens is the strongest Shuar hallucinogen. Considered very dangerous, it sometimes is added to natem mixtures or it may be taken alone. Other plants used in hallucinogens or in narcotic beverages include Brunfelsia grandiflora, Cyperus spp., Diplopterys cabrerana, Heliconia stricta, Herrania spp., and Ilex guayusa.
2806797|Chromosome counts are presented for more than 250 populations of Aster representing 56 species and eight spontaneous interpecific hybrids. Species are listed according to the infregeneric classification system presented in the preceding paper which utlilizes basic chromosome numbers as the pivotal diagnostic character. Fundamental to the classification is an ecological species concept. The list is augmented by a series of comments on field observations and on the examination of types. Six older names previously placed in synonymy or recognized at an inferior rank are reinstated at the species level: A. brachypholis, A. firmus, A. fragilis, A simmondsii and A. tardiflorus. Two taxa included as species in current manuals of the eastern North America flora are reduced in status to subspecies rank under A. ordifolus. Putative hybrid status is assigned to four taxa previously treated and originally published as species: A. x coerulescens (=A. ciliolatus x A. simplex), A. x interior (=A. simplex x A. tradescantii), A. x maccallae (= A. ciliolatus x A. subspicatus) and A. x subgeminatus (=A. ciliolatus z A. tardiflorus). With new data availabel, the basic chromosome number of x=8 has now been confirmed for all species of Aster section Heterophylli, except the Mexican A. coahuilensis.
2805903|Fertile interspecific hybrids were obtained among four species of Zinnia sect. Mendezia. The collection data and the segregation for ray color in $F_1$ hybrids suggest natural interspecific hybridization. Cytological data suggest that the descent of the four species from a common ancestor was accompanied by reciprocal translocations involving non-homologous chromosomes.
40648179|Variability of Geranium holosericeum is clarified and G. lindenianum and G. schultzei are differentiated from G. holosericeum. A new key, complete descriptions, distribution maps, and illustrations are provided for the three species. A neotype is proposed for G. schultzei. Se estudia la variabilidad de Geranium holosericeum y se diferencia de G. lindenianum y G. schultzei. Se presenta una nueva clave de identificacin, descripciones completas, un mapa de distribucin y dibujos para las tres especies. Se propone un neotipo para G. schultzei.
2806851|Mosses restricted to tepui summits in the Guayana Highland are relatively few. Sphagnum ornatum Crum, though, only recently described from Brazil, has been found subsequently in a number of localities in nearby Venezuela and Guyana. These additional collections make for a better understanding of the diagnostic features of a species characteristically found on the tops of the sandstone mesas of southern Venezuela and adjacent areas.
2807341|As a result of comprehensive systematic study on Polygonum section Echinocaulon, three new nomenclatural changes are made: P. clarkei stat. et nom. nov., P. subsagittatum stat. nov., and P. senticosum var. sagittifolium stat. nov.
2807110|Staphylea campanulata, a new species from the Sichuan Province of China, is described and its morphological distinctions from related species are discussed.
2807571|Miconia howardiana, which is known only from a diverse moist montane forest in the vicinity of Loma Trocha de Pey (or "Monteada Nueva"), the easternmost peak of the Sierra de Baoruco, is described and illustrated. It is compared to phenetically similar (and probably phylogenetically related) species of the Miconia favosa complex, i.e., M. favosa, M. xenotricha, M. campanensis, M. sintenisii, M. foveolata, and M. pycnoneura. The species of this complex are characterized by bullate leaves with frequently cordate bases and often six secondary veins. Most species also have large berries and flowers, 5-locular ovaries, large inflorescence bracts and bracteoles, and more or less dendritic multicellular hairs.
2807443|Five new species of South American Solanum are described: S. morii from French Guiana, S. superbum and S. tumescens from Bolivia, S. platycypellon from southern Bolivia and northern Argentina and S. gertii from southeastern Brazil. An illustration and distribution map for each species is provided and relationships to close relatives are discussed.
3218337|Gibsoniothamnus L. O. Williams is a genus of 11 species native to Mexico, Central America, and northern Colombia. The species are shrubs or small trees with opposite, entire leaves, tubular corollas, four stamens, 2-locular ovary, and fleshy, indehiscent fruits. Calyces are unlobed, or they may have lateral, triangular or winglike lobes. Most species are epiphytes and appear to be bird pollinated and bird dispersed.
2807495|Three new species of dicotyledons are described and illustrated. Malpighia woodburyana Vivaldi (Malpighiaceae) is described from Saint Thomas, but is also found on Saint John and adjacent islands. Eugenia earhartii (Myrtaceae) and Machaonia woodburyana (Rubiaceae) are known only from the island of Saint John.
2805429|Species of Ageratina Spach have been separated recently from the genus Eupatorium L. Eastern North American plants of Ageratina are eglandular with opposite leaves, involucres in essentially two series, and have white, funnelform corollas. Statistical data derived from measurements of six characters on more than 1000 specimens, in addition to other qualitative evidences, lead to the recognition of three species: A altissima including vars, angustata and roanensis, A. aromatica, and A. jucunda. Descriptions, distribution maps, and illustrations are provided, and A. altissima (= E. rugosum Houtt.) is compared with the closely related, western species, A. rothrockii, Accesory chromosomes are reported in A. aromatica. Three new combinations are proposed.
2666613|Six taxa of genus Chamaecrista are described: In sect. Apoucouita (Bentham) Irwin & Barneby, Ch. amorimii Barneby and Ch. pteropoda Barneby, both from Atlantic Bahia; in sect. Absus ser. Incurvatae Irwin & Barneby, Ch. caspariifolia Barneby and Ch. linearifolia var. latifolia Barneby, both from interior Minas Gerais; in sect. Absus ser. Hedysaroides Irwin & Barneby, Ch. fulgida Barneby, from northern Goias; and in ser. Prostratae (Bentham) Irwin & Barneby, Ch. chiquitana Barneby, from lowland Bolivia. The affinities and differential characters of each are pointed out, and all but var. latifolia are illustrated.
2807469|Erythroxylum foetidum Plowman, E. guanchezii Plowman, and E. macrophyllum Cav. var. savannarum Plowman are described and illustrated, and their taxonomic and phytogeographic relationships are discussed.
2806436|The binomial Biophytum umbraculum Welwitsch, validly published with priority over B. petersianum Klotzsch, is the name to be used for this species.
2807060|Vegetative similarities as well as a syntype specimen with discordant elements have evidently misled botanists to equate Lachnostoma hastatulum with Gonolobus parvifolius. Both species are considered representatives of a broadly interpreted genus Matelea, subgenus Chthamalia. A new combination, M. hastatula, is proposed, and G. parvifolius is lectotypified.
3218442|Most systematists have favored placing Petrosaviaceae close to the Triuridaceae (formerly positioned within Alismatidae) by focusing on the mycoheterotrophic habit and nearly free carpels of Petrosaviaceae. Others have favored a position near the melanthioid lilies, perhaps serving as a linking-family to the Triuridaceae. We discuss the results of recently published, independent, and combined DNA sequence analyses that indicate a strongly supported sister relationship between Petrosavia (Petrosaviaceae) and Japonolirion (Japonoliriaceae). Molecular data show no connection of these genera to the Alismatales (including Tofieldiaceae), the Melanthiaceae s. str., the Liliales, or the Triuridaceae (now in Pandanales), although there are morphological similarities to each of these groups. A relationship to the Pandanales has been indicated in some molecular analyses, but this is not supported by bootstrap/jackknife analyses or by most morphological characters. Both Petrosavia and Japonolirion are native to highelevation habitats and have bracteate racemes, pedicellate flowers, six persistent tepals, septal nectaries, three nearly distinct carpels, simultaneous microsporogenesis, monosulcate pollen, and follicular fruits. Outside of the Alismatales, no other monocotyledons share this combination of features. We therefore suggest that the Petrosaviaceae be re-circumscribed to include Japonolirion. If the family's isolated position among the monocot orders continues to be found in phylogenetic studies, then recognition of the already published order Petrosaviales would be appropriate.
2806601|Rhytachne gonzalezii is described and illustrated. It ranges from Apure, Venezuela to Para, Brazil. It is the third annual species known in this tropical African-American genus. Previously it had been confounded with the perennial R. rottboellioides from which it differs in its habit, branching culms, smaller sessile spikelets and rachis internodes, and awned upper glume.
2666523|Coussarea granvillei is newly described and illustrated from material collected in the environs of Mount Galbao, near Saul, French Guiana. This new species is compared to C. amapaensis, for which the morphological and distributional ranges are extended and briefly discussed, and to C. leptophragma and C. revoluta.
2806322|Diagnoses are giben for the following new taxa: Agastache eplingiana, A. micrantha var. durangensis, A. pallida var. coriacea, A. pallidiflora var. gilensis and A. palmeri var. leonensis. Five new combinations are made.
2807237| Botanical exploration of the vicinity of Sal, French Guiana, with the goal of producing a manual of the vascular plant flora, has yielded a new species of Smilax. A diagnostic characteristic that differentiates this new species from all other species of Smilax known from the Guianas and the Amazonian region is the admedial ramified branching pattern of the tertiary leaf veins. 
2806971|Two new species, Vernonia cocleana and V. chiriquiensis, are described from Panama. These endemic species are distinct from those in Central America and most closely resemble taxa in the West Indies and Argentina, respectively. These taxa are described and illustrated; a key is provided to the Panamanian species of Vernonia.
2807879|Rourea foreroi is described here from a previously unexplored montane area of the Venezuelan Guayana and belongs to Rourea section Rourea. It is distinguished by trichomes on the lower leaf surface that have a dark hemispheric base, a feature not known elsewhere in the genus.
2666624|A new species of Cestrum from the Cordillera de Merida in Trujillo state is described and illustrated. Cestrum darcyanum, morphologically similar to C. microcalyx Francey, is distinguished by dendritic pubescence on its branchlets and leaves, larger corolla, stamens distended and geniculate above their point of adnation to the corolla, and larger calyx. A key is provided for species of Venezuelan Cestrum possessing dendritic pubescence.
2807680|A new species of Ocotea, O. diffusa van der Werff, is described and illustrated based on recent collections from French Guiana and adjacent Brazil.
4497370| Symplocos saxatilis from Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais State, Brazil, is newly described and illustrated on the basis of field and herbarium studies. It appears to be restricted to "campo rupestre" (rocky field) habitats. This new species is characterized by its 1- to 3-flowered pedunculate inflorescence, 11 to 14 staminodes of the pistillate flowers, and 0.7-1.5 mm thick endocarp. 
2806915|Columnea chrysotricha, C. cuspidata (both Columnea sect. Collandra), and Gasteranthus recurvatus are described from Colombia; C. sulcata (Columnea sect. Collandra) from Ecuador and Colombia; and Drymonia anisophylla from the Amazonian lowland rain forests of Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru.
2805947|Begonia lyniceorum, B. multistamlinea and B. sousae from the state of Veracruz in Mexico are described as new, illustrated and discussed.
3218357|A new species of Croton, C. dissectistipulatus, is described from Amazonian Brazil. This species is superficially similar to C. timandroides from northeastern and southeastern Brazil, but differs in having petiolate leaves with glandular margins, persistent stipules, conspicuous racemose inflorescences, staminate flowers having externally glabrous sepals and 3 stamens, and pedicellate pistillate flowers. The systematic position of C. dissectistipulatus relative to the sections of Croton is discussed.
4098968| The new species Urvillea venezuelensis, from northwestern Venezuela, is described, illustrated, and compared to its putative closest relative U. dasycarpa. Additionally micromorphological characters of pollen grains are described. The new species belongs to Urvillea section Stenelytron, which is characterized by compressed fruit locules. /// La especie nueva Urvillea venezuelensis, del noroeste de Venezuela, es descrita, ilustrada y comparada con la especie ms prxima U. dasycarpa. Adicionalmente se describen caracteres micromorfolgicos de los granos de polen. La especie nueva pertenece a Urvillea seccin Stenelytron, la cual se caracteriza por los frutos con los lculos complanados. 
2805904|One approach to the problem of deducing the genealogy of a set of organisms is to propose several hypotheses using different procedures, based on different evolutionary inferences. Such an approach was followed here, and four different phylogenies were constructed, three of them computer built. Consistency with independently obtained phenetic, cytological, and phytogeographical data was used to select the most probable phylogenetic tree among the four. It is shown that the most probable tree is one constructed under the assumption that character states found close to the mean and/or modal values for the genus are primitive. It is also shown that certain phylogenetic conclusions obtain in all four phylogenies.
2805718|A new genus and species, Gentrya racemosa (Scrophularianceae, tribe Euphrasieae, subtribe Castilleiinae) from the Sierra Surutao in Sinaloa, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The relationships of the new genus to Castilleia and Orthocarpus are discussed.
2806490|Two previously monotypic genera. Taenidia and Pseudotaenidia, are combined to form a single genus Taenidia, with two species. The difference in the fruits that has caused these otherwise very similar taxa to be referred to different tribes of the Apiaceae is considered to be of only specific importance in this instance.
4099036|Sicyos mcvaughii, a new species from Oaxaca, is described and illustrated. It is similar to Sicyos sertuliferus Cogn., and grows in secondary tropical deciduous forest, between 20 and 630 meters.
3218523|Pericarp histology in the Oncospermatinae reveals distinctive characters at the generic level but no unique characters at the subtribal level. Pericarp structure is diverse but parallels the diversity found in other subtribes of the Areceae. The subtribe appears to be divisible into two distinct groups: one in which sclereids alone provide the primary protective barrier in the outer fruit and one in which fibrous bundles, sometimes in combination with brachysclereids, form the outer barrier. This division of the subtribe supports similar conclusions derived from morphological data.
4497335|Passiflora boticarioana, a new species of subgen. Passiflora, supersect. Stipulata, sect. Dysosmia, from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared with morphologically similar species.
2807021| Three novelties in Cuphea section Melvilla subsect. Pachycalyx are described from Brazil; C. andersonii and C. cylindracea from Par, and C. sabulosa from Amazonas. An annotated key to the 47 species of Cuphea section Melvilla is provided, the first since the 1903 monograph of the family, which then included 27 species in the section. The key identifies those species of Cuphea with thick, dorsally convex, red- or yellow-tubed flowers distributed from Mexico to Argentina. 
2806272|A karyomorphological comparison of four genera of the tribe Buchnereae and two genera of the tribe Euphrasieae, root parasites of the subfamily Rhinanthoideae of the Scrophulariaceae, is presented along with 12 new chromosome counts. The interphase nuclei are of the simple chromocenter type. Macranthera and Aureolaria have more subtelocentric chromosomes than these of the other genera studied, which indicates higher asymmetric variation in their karyotypes. In all the karyotypes decrease in size from the longest to the shortest chromosomes is gradual. All the species studied show karyotypic heteromorphology and heteromorphic homologous chromosomes.
2806003|Dactyladenia, which has been universally regarded as a synonym of Acioa for more than 100 years, is restored to generic rank, and 26 new combinations are made in an enumeration of the 27 species accepted by the authors.
2805717|In the most recent monograph of the genus in North America, Physalis lanceolata was considered to be a hybrid between P. heterophylla and P. virginiana. Comparative morphological and chromatographic studies indicate, however, that P. lanceolata is not intermediate between its supposed parents. This evidence plus its high pollen viability and seed set indicate that the species is not a hybrid. Natural hybrids between P. heterophylla and P. virginiana are sterile and are intermediate between these species in morphology and chromatographic pattern.
2806667|As three of the members of the delegation of the Botanical Society of America, the authors participated in a 28-day tour of the People's Republic of China in May and June, 1978. Botanical institute and universities were visited in nine cities. A list of names and addresses of the collaborators and editors of family treatments for the Flora Reipublicae Popularis Sinicae is supplemented with a bibliography of published floras and significant taxonomic literature issued primarily since the end of the Cultural Revolution. A few observations on herbaria and herbarium practices are included.
41406771|While conducting a floristic inventory of Croton from the Brazilian Caatinga, three new species were discovered. Croton arenosus, Croton glandulosobracteatus, and Croton harleyi are described and illustrated here. Based on morphological characters, Croton glandulosobracteatus is proposed to belong to section Barhamia, and C. arenosus and C. harleyi to section Geiseleria.
2806113|The Mexican and Central American complex of Senecio, s.l., and Cacalia, s.l., is divided into eleven informal groups, with several subgroups, in order to define more or less natural assemblages for detailed revisionary studies. The groups are separated by a key. The discussion accounts for the disposition of the segregate genera recognized by H. Robinson and co-workers, as well as the subgenera employed by Greenman.
2807771|New species Matelea gracieae (Asclepiadaceae) is described and a collection of Cynanchum gortsianum (Asclepiadaceae), previously known only from French Guiana, is reported for Suriname. This new record allows for corrections in the original description of C. gortsianum, which was based on aberrant material.
2807409|The Mimosa of trans-Pecos Texas passing latterly as M. zygophylla Benth. is described as a new species, M. turneri Barneby. Its relationships to vicarian M. borealis A. Gray and to the gypsophile M. unipinnata Parf. & Pink. are thought to be closer than to M. zygophylla. Significant differences between these four species are discussed and summarized in a key, and the known range of each is mapped.
40792903|Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas del gnero Quararibea del sur de Mxico, proporcionando informacin sobre su distribucin y el habitat donde se desarrollan. Quararibea lopezperaltae se distingue por tener ramillas glabrescentes, un fruto obloide someramente bilobado, con el pice conspicuamente deprimido, sin mamila apical y cliz no acrescente. Quararibea mayarum se distingue por la pubescencia viloso-tomentosa de sus ramillas, pecolos y hojas, por tener el fruto elipsoide con una mamila apical, pice deprimido cuando seco y cliz no acrescente. Se discuten adems las especies ms relacionadas con estos taxones nuevos y se presenta una clave para distinguir las especies mexicanas del gnero Quararibea. Two new species in the genus Quararibea from southern Mexico are described and illustrated, and information on their distribution and habitat is provided. Quararibea lopezperaltae is distinguished by its glabrate branchlets, its obloid, shallowly bilobed fruit, with a conspicuously depressed apex lacking a mammilla, and by the presence of a calyx that is not accrescent in fruit. Quararibea mayarum is distinguished by its densely villous-tomentose branches, petioles, and leaves, and by the presence of an ellipsoid, mammillate fruit that has a depressed apex when dry, and a calyx that is not accrescent in fruit. The relationships of these species are discussed further and a key to separate the Mexican species of Quararibea is presented.
3218398|Leskeodon caducifolius is described from recent collections made at a single site in a cloud forest in southern Ecuador. The species is distinctive in its small, caducous leaves and elongate, porose exothecial cells.
2807116|A new genus and species of Dipterocarpaceae, Pseudomonotes tropenbosii, from Amazonian Colombia is described and illustrated. This new taxon, which appears most closely related to the subfamily Monotoideae, is the second reported occurrence of a member of the family in the Neotropics. The new entity differs from the rest of the Dipterocarpaceae in the absence of fasciculate trichomes and in having sepals conspicuously aliform (reaching 10-16 cm in length) and one ovule per locule with nearly basal (sub-basal) placentation.
2807555|A new genus of Phytolaccaceae, Nowickea, includes two new species, N. xolocotzii and N. glabra, each known only from its type locality in the states of Jalisco and Morelos, Mexico, respectively. Nowickea exhibits close relationship with Phytolacca by a robust, herbaceous growth habit, 7- to 10-carpellate ovary, carpels with terminal, basally connate styles, basal placentation, and fleshy fruits. It is distinguished by green, subequal, herbaceous, and often lanceolate tepals 3 to 12 mm long, ovary and fruit elevated on a well developed grynophore, obovoid or obpyriform fuits, and narrowly ellipsoid seeds.
2807647| Two new species from Peru, Llerasia pascoensis Sagst. & Dillon and Ll. sanmartinensis Sagst. & Dillon and LI. sanmartinensis Sagast. & Dillon are described an Illustrated, and their relationships discussed. A key to the Peruvian species of Llerasia is presented. Also, a notable range extension into northern Peru is reported for Ll. lindenii Triana, a species previously known only from Colombia and Ecuador. 
3218498|A new species of the genus Tetracera (T. maguirei) from the sandstone savannas and shrubby forests in Guyana is described, illustrated, and compared to T. asperula Miq. A key to the species of Tetracera from the Guianas is provided.
2806085|Type specimens of the taxa of Asteraceae described as new by Otto Kuntze in his Revisio Generum Plantarum Volume I (1891) and Volume III (1898) that are known to be in the herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden (NY) are listed. Types for some of the taxa were not found at NY.
2805646|A taxonomic revision, based mainly on morphological and distributional criteria, is presented for all taxa of Trillium subgen. Phyllantherum Raf., which is characterized by sessile flowers. The 22 species recognized as valid include 17 morpho-geographical species in the eastern United States and five in the northwestern United States and California. These species form three morphological alliances that are characterized informally as "species groups." All the taxa are described, and a key to species and varieties is provided. Five new species are described: Trillium decipiens, T. reliquum, T. foetidissimum, T. albidum, and T. kurabayashii; and a new status, T. angustipetalum (Torrey) Freeman, based on T. sessile var. angustipetalum Torrey, is proposed. Six new flower color forms are described: T. reliquum f. luteum, T. stamineum f. luteum, T. maculatum f. luteum, T. maculatum f. simulans, T. foetidissimum f. luteum, and T. cuneatum f. luteum. County distribution maps are included for all species and varieties, and an annotated synonymy is presented for each taxon.
2805879|Psilostrophe mexicana is described as new and compared with the closely related species P. gnaphalodes. Chromosome numbers for P. mexicana are reported as n = 32, a tetraploid number. This new species is the seventh and only polyploid species in the genus.
2806393|A new species, Sagittaria secundifolia, is described from Alabama and is compared to the other species of its taxonomic complex.
2807497|Three new species of Quercus are described from northeastern Mexico: Quercus hintoniorum, Q. coahuilensis, and Q. miquihuanensis. These species form a morphological complex with Q. hypoxantha, which is shown to be of much more restricted distribution than previously reported. A key to the 4 species, full descriptions, synonymy, geographic distributions and illustrations are presented.
30218822|The article describes how the medical school in Montpellier, organized in 1498, responded to the development of the Jussiaean classification of plants. Though overshadowed by Paris in the eighteenth century as a center of medical and botanical training, botany as taught at Montpellier provided the impetus for the conversion of traditional herbalism into a biology-based medicine by the nineteenth century. In addition, the plant affinities and analogies underlying natural classification led to the conception of a viable theory of evolution, as Darwin acknowledged. The opposition to these advances, evident in the nineteenth century, remains alive today.
2805619|Examination of the type specimens reveals that Aiolotheca parthenioides DC. is identical with a species currently known as Zaluzania robinsonii W. M. Sharp. Similarly, Tonalanthus aurantiacus T. S. Brandegee is conspecific with Calea megacephala Robinson & Greenman. It is shown that Aiolotheca DC. is synonymous with Zaluzania Pers., and that Tonalanthus T. S. Brandegee is a synonym of Calea L. The new combination Zaluzania parthenioides (DC.) Rzedowski is proposed. Study of the original material confirms the correctness of the application of the name Zaluzania triloba (Ort.) Pers. in the sense of W. M. Sharp (1935).
2807584|Saurauia oroquensis, a new species from Colombia remarkably allied to S. bullosa Wawra, is described. It is distinguished from the latter by the absence of stellate trichomes on the lower leaf surface, by the homotrichous nature of sepal pubescence (limited only to the exposed parts in bud, with the imbricated parts and inner surface completely glabrous), and by the much lower number of stamens per flower. This new taxon is endemic to the Colombia-Venezuelan border region (Tchira-Norte de Santander).
2805504|About sixty taxa in the genus Linum are arranged systematically and are compared using data published earlier for the fatty acid content of their seeds. Plants of sect. Linum, of sect. Dasylinum, and Old World species of sect. Linastrum generally have higher percentages of linolenic acid and lower percentages of linoleic acid; plants of sect. Syllinum, of sect. Cathartolinum, and New World species of sect. Linastrum have the reverse tendencies. The segregation of L. stelleroides from other species of sect. Linum and the maintenance of L. tenuifolium in a section separate from other tested species are supported.
2806573|Eugenia mcvaughii is described from a forest remnant of the Jardn Botnico of Caracas, Venezuela. Found also in the hills adjacent to Caracas, it may be considered as an endemic species of the Interior Coastal Cordillera.
2806497|Nematocladia tesserata is described from northeastern Mexico. It differs from other genera in the family in its gymnostomous condition. Its relationships are with Helicodontium and Austinia.
2807819| The ranges of Consolea nashii and C. moniliformis were found to extend from the Bahamas and Hispaniola, respectively, into Cuba. Two new subspecies are now recognized on the basis of morphological and geographica discontinuities of populations: Consolea nashii subsp. gibarensis from the coastal thickets between Manat and Mais, northeastern Cuba, and C. moniliformis subsp. guantanamana from the cacti thorn-woodlands and tickets of Guatnamo and Santiago de Cuba Provinces, on the southern coast and adjancent dry plains of eastern Cuba. A key to the Cuban species of Consolea is provided. 
2806190|A linear-leaved, unicostate phase of Galium arkansanum Gray with pubescent corollas and the abaxial midvein of the leaves glabrous is segregated from the species as var. pubiflorum. It is presently known in the pure form only from the Ouachita Mountains in Montgomery County, Arkansas.
2807709|A new species, Jacquinia pauciflora, is described from subtropical moist forest on karst hills (mogotes) in northwestern Puerto Rico. Jacquinia pauciflora is similar to J. stenophylla Urban, from which it differs in several floral aand leaf characters, but is possibly most closely related to J. umbellata A. DC. A Key to the species of Jacquinia occurring in Puerto Rico is provided.
2807810|Paracromastigum fiordlandiae Schust. & Engel from New Zealand is described. It approaches Hyalolepidozia in the almost uniformly intercalary branching but differs from it in the intermingled 2-3-lobed leaves and the stem with 9-12 rows of cortical cells. Paracromastigum and Hyalolepidozia are intimately allied to Pseudocephalozia Schust., and one could argue that they could all be placed as subgeneric elements in a single genus. Whatever their status, these taxa fit reasonably well into Lepidoziaceae subfam. Zoopsidoideae.
2805952|Physaria dornii is described from Wyoming and compared to its nearest relatives.
2806278|One hundred and forty-five taxa of bryophytes are reported from the extreme southeastern Yukon. Eight species of Hepaticae and 13 of mosses represent new records for the Yukon, which are Calypogeia suecica (S. Arnell & Perss.) K. Mull., Chiloscyphus pallescens (Ehrh.) Dum., Conocephalum conicum (L.) Dum., Jamesoniella autumnalis (DC.) Steph., Pellia neesiana (Gott.) Limpr., Ptilidium pulcherrimum (Web.) Hampe, ricardia palmata (Hedw.) Carruth., Tritomaria exsecta (Schmid.) Schiffn., Amblystegium varium (Hedw.) Lindb., Brachythecium rivulare B.S.G., B. rutabulum (Hedw.) B.S.G., Bryum blindii B.S.G., Didymodon rigidulus Hedw., D. tophaceus (Brid.) Lisa, Drepanocladus trichophyllus (Warnst.) Podp., Hygroamblystegium noterophilum (Sull. & Lesq. ex Sull.) Warnst., Hygrohypnum molle (Hedw.) Loeske, Plagiomnium ciliare (C. Mull.) Kop., P. cuspidatum (Hedw.) Kop., Platydictya minutissimum (Sull. & Lesq. ex Sull.) Crum, and Pylaisiella selwynii (Kindb.) Crum, Steere & Anderson. Many of the other collections represent wide extensions of range within the Yukon Territory.
4098960| Habenaria sect. Macroceratitae from Brazil is revised, and seven species are recognized: H. bractescens, H. gourlieana, H. johannensis, H. longicauda, H. macronectar, H. nabucoi, and the newly described H. paulistana. A main feature of these species is the presence of long, separated, involute stigmatic processes. Habenaria bractescens, H. gourlieana, H. johannensis, and H. macronectar are distributed mainly from central and southeastern Brazil to southern Brazil and southern South America, whereas H. longicauda and H. nabucoi are distributed mainly from west central, southeastern and northeastern Brazil to northern South America. Habenaria paulistana is restricted to the state of So Paulo. Habenaria bradei, H. juergensii, and H. sartoroides are lectotypified, and H. kleyi is neotypified. The identity of H. fastor is discussed and H. nabucoi is recognized as the valid name for this species. Seven other species previously placed in sect. Macroceratitae are sufficiently distinct and are removed from the section. ///  apresentada uma reviso de Habenaria seo Macroceratitae de ocorrncia no Brasil, sendo reconhecidas sete espcies: H. bractescens, H. gourlieana, H. johannensis, H. longicauda, H. macronectar, H. nabucoi e uma nova espcie descrita como H. paulistana. Uma das principals caractersticas destas espcies so os estigmas separados, longos e com as bordas involutas. Habenaria bractescens, H. gourlieana, H. johannensis e H. macronectar distribuem-se principalmente do Centro-Oeste e Sudeste do Brasil ao Sul do Brasil e Sul da Amrica do Sul, enquanto H. longicauda e H. nabucoi distribuem-se principalmente do Centro-Oeste, Sudeste e Nordeste do Brasil ao Norte da Amrica do Sul. Habenaria paulistana  restrita ao estado de So Paulo Habenaria bradei, H. juergensii, e H. sartoroides so lectotipificadas e H. kleyi  neotipificada. A identidade de H. fastor  discutida e H. nabucoi  reconhecido como o nome vlido para esta espcie. Outras sete espcies previamente includas na seo Macroceratitae so suficientemente distintas e so excludas da seo. 
4098979| Discocarpus pedicellatus, a new species from semideciduous forests of southern Bahia, is here described and illustrated. Pistillate flowers with pedicels 8-10 mm long and styles usually connate into a column 2.5-3 mm long are diagnostic for this species. /// Discocarpus pedicellatus, uma nova espcie de florestas semidecduas do sul da Bahia  aqui descrita e ilustrada. Flores pistiladas com pedicelos 8-10 mm compr. e estiletes freqentemente unidos em coluna 2.5-3 mm compr. so diagnsticos para esta espcie. 
40980938|New combinations are proposed in anticipation of the Polygonaceae treatment in the forthcoming volume of Intermountain Flora: Polygonum kelloggii var.esotericum, P. kelloggii var. watsonii, Rumex densiflorus var. pycnanthus, R. salicifolius var. utahensis, and R. occidentalis var. tomentellus. Typifications are proposed to facilitate ongoing studies in Polygonaceae and to maintain current usage.
3218381|Two new species of Physalis, both endemic to Jalisco, Mexico, are described and illustrated: P. longiloba and P. tamayoi. /// [Spanish]Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Physalis endemicas de Jalisco, Mexico: P. longiloba y P. tamayoi.
2807484|Nine species of Nectria are described or redescribed. Ascospores of all are colorless and striate; their perithecia are orange and do not become red in KOH. Three groups of species are represented. One group includes Nectria grammicospora, N. cf. grammicospora, N. subquaternata, and the new species: N. grammicosporopsis, N. lucifer, and N. neogramicospora. A second group includes the new species N. chlorogloea and N. septomyrotheciae. The third group is represented by the single new species N. dacryocarpa. The life-cycles of these species are described. Anamorphs of N. grammicospora, N. grammicosporopsis, N. lucifer, and N. subquaternata are species of Clonostachys. The anamorph of N. neogrammicospora is Acremonium- or Cephalosporiopsis-like in having monophialidic conidiophores and phragmosporous conidia, and that of N. cf. grammicospora is Acremonium-like with amerosporous conidia. The anamorphs of N. chlorogloea and N. septomyrotheciae have green conidia. The anamorph of N. chlorogloea is Myrothecium sp.; its conidia are unicellular and the conidioma is a synemma. The anamorph of N. septomyrotheciae is Septomyrothecium cf. uniseptatum; its conidioma is a sporodochium and the conidia are bicellular. The new genus and species Dacryoma alba are decribed for the anamorph of N. dacryocarpa. All of these fungi are pantropical or Australasian in distribution.
30218820|Se describe e ilustra Hypenia violacea (Lamiaceae), una especie nueva de Guerrero, Mxico. Presenta hojas coriceas, glabrescentes, inflorescencia tirsoide, laxa, con cmulas umbeliformes, pedunculadas, con 3-6 flores por cmula, flores de color violeta, de 0.8-1.6 cm largo. Las caractersticas observadas corresponden, en su mayora, a Hypenia, un gnero de distribucin sudamericana, por lo que se incluye en el mismo. /// Hypenia violacea (Lamiaceae), a new species from Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species is characterized by glabrescent, coriaceous leaves, lax thyrsoid inflorescences with pedunculate and umbelliform cymules that have 3-6 violet flowers with corollas 0.8-1.6 cm long. The species is referred to the Southern American genus Hypenia.
2807815|Ornithocephalus torresii Salazar & Soto Arenas, a new species from the Pacific slope of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by the nearly closed, globose flowers and the cymbiform lip with a small, irregularly dentate-lacerate lobule at each side of the base. A key to all the species of Ornithocephalus hiterto recorded from Mexico is provided.
2806368|Expressions of the Salvia dorrii (Kellogg) Abrams complex, a member of subg. Audibertia Benth., are distributed over much of the western United States. The complex consists of two species, S. dorrii and S. pachyphylla Epling ex Munz. Salvia dorrii is divided into subsp. dorrii and subsp. mearnsii (Britton) McClintock, the latter endemic to central Arizona. Subspecies dorrii is composed of four varieties; var. carnosa (Douglas ex Greene) Cronq., a largeleaved erect shrub of Washington and Idaho southward through Oregon into extreme north-central California; var. dorrii, a small-leaved erect shrub of southern Oregon and Idaho southward through the Great Basin of Nevada and western Utah to southeastern California and northern Arizona; var. pilosa (A Gray) Strachan & Reveal, a small-leaved erect shrub differing from var. dorrii by pilose bracts and calyx, in southern California and western Arizona with disjunct populations in the Lahontan Basin of northwestern Nevada and northeastern California; and var. clokeyi Strachan, var. nov., a low mat-forming subshrub of the high mountains of Clark Co., Nevada. Salvia pachyphylla ranges from southern California southward to the high mountains of Baja California Norte, Mexico, and eastward across extreme southern Nevada to (as a disjunct) northeastern Arizona. Each entity is described in detail, mapped and illustrated.
2807028|The bryophyte portion of the Wabash College Herbarium (WAB) consists of the personal herbaria of two faculty members: Drs. R. L. Laubengayer and A. R. Bechtel. Together, there were 1483 packets of bryophyte specimens. Most of the collections are from New York, Indiana, and Puerto Rico. Among them, ten represent new county records for New York mosses. Pseudocrossidium aureum is reported as new to California. Orthotrichum sordidum and Pylaisiella selwynii are newly identified from a Puerto Rican collection by Laubengayer. The West Indian records of these two species, however, are only doubtfully accepted. In addition, a short biographical sketch is presented for R. L. Laubengayer.
2806957|A systematic review of the Colombian species of the tribe Pterideae (Pteridaceae) resulted in the discovery of two new species of Pteris: P. muricatopedata and P. albertiae, both in the Deflexa group. Two species are reported for the first time from Colombia: P. bakeri C. Chr. and P. lechleri Mett.
41406781|Agave turneri, a new species of Agave from the Sierras Cucap and El Mayor in northeastern Baja California, Mexico, is a medium-sized species that does not produce offsets, has a relatively short and narrow panicle, and has a distinctive flower structure. The closest relatives to this new species are Agave moranii, which occurs approximately 200 km to the south of the type locality, and A. deserti var.simplex, which occurs in Arizona and California. This new species is a narrow endemic restricted to specific granodiorite and tonalite habitats in a hyperarid environment.Agave turneri appears to be a critically endangered owing to its habitat preference for specific types of granite in the Sierra Cucap, threats due to prolonged drought and global change, and its close proximity to the Mexicali metropolitan area. Se describe una nueva especie de agave, Agave turneri.La planta es de tamao mediano, no produce hijuelos y su inflorescencia es relativamente corta y angosta.Sus parientes ms cercanos son Agave moranii, que est presente a unos 200 km hacia el sur de la localidad tipo y A. deserti var. simplex, que se distribuye en Arizona y California. La especie es endmica y restringida al noreste de Baja California, Mxico, donde ocurre sobre granodiorita y tonalita de habitats hiperridos en las Sierras Cucap y El Mayor. Agave turneri parece estar en un estatus de conservacin de peligro de extincin, debido a su mbito y habitat tan restringidos, las sequas prolongadas y el cambio global, y por su cercana al rea metropolitana de Mexicali.
2805661|Spores of Polypodium chnoodes Spreng. were found to possess a large winged perispore surrounding the exospore. This character had hitherto been found only in the closely related families of the aspidioiddennstaedtioid complex. Its presence in a species of Polypodium is another example of the remarkable parallelisms which occur in ferns.
2807317|Lobelia knoblochii, L. mcvaughii, and L. villaregalis are described and referred, with Heterotoma macrocentron Benth., to Lobelia "grex Eriniformes" Wimmer. All are narrow endemic occurring on volcanic soils in the Sierra Madre Occidental of Mexico. Lobelia macrocentron, L mcvaughii, and L. villaregalis are known only from the type localities.
2807702|A new genus is described based on a species formerly found in Werneria s.l. It is named after a collector, Miss Winifred M. A. Brooke. The new genus, Misbrookea, is confined to dry, high-elevation areas in Peru and northern Bolivia. It is distinguished by its unusual, long, multicellular hairs that cover the leaves and involucre of the plant, the style apices with long, multicellular hairs and apparent vascular traces, and the pale or silvery gray-green color of the leaves and involucre.
4099032|The taxonomy of the Polygonum douglasii complex is revised. A summary of relevant taxonomic information is provided, along with a key to the species and subspecies, plus typification, synonymy, discussion, distribution, and ecology. Morphology and micromorphology of stems, leaves, perianth, pollen, and achenes are analyzed and illustrated. Based on these data, 12 species and two subspecies are recognized. A new species, P. gabrielae, is described and illustrated from Oregon.
2806286|Eucharis plicata and Pamianthe parviflora are described from Peru and Ecuador respectively. Additionally, questions are raised concerning the separation of the genera Pamianthe Stapf and Paramongaia Velarde.
2666514|The gesneriad flora of the Reserva Rio Guajalito, Province of Pichincha, and Bosque Protector Otonga, province of Cotopaxi, Ecuador have been investigated. Three new species, Gasteranthus aurantiacus M. Freiberg, G. atrolimbus M. Freiberg, and G. acuticarinatus M. Freiberg, are described and illustrated in preparation for a contribution for the Gesneriaceae in the Flora of Ecuador. While both G. acuticarinatus and G. atrolimbus are characterized by a dorsal keel on a tubular, pink to wine-red corolla, the infundibulate, bright orange-colored corolla of G. aurantiacus has a rather wide opening and a large limb.
2807753| Botanical exploration in southwestern Amazonia has revealed a new species, Spondias testudinis J. D. Mitch. & Daly, described and illustrated here. Its distribution appears to be restricted to the Brazilian state of Acre; Pando in Bolivia; and Hunuco and Ucayali in Peru. The sexuality of the flowers of Spondias and its implications regarding their morphology is discussed. A provisional key to the neotropical species is presented. 
4098948| Astragalus mario-sousae is described from the central part of state of Nuevo Len, Mexico. It differs from Astragalus esperanzae by its habit, peduncles, pedicels, and fruits. /// Astragalus mario-sousae es propuesta como especie nueva. Se conoce solo de la porcin central del estado mexicano de Nuevo Len. Se presentan una descripcin e ilustracin. Difiere de Astragalus esperanzae por su hbito erecto, pednculos, pedicelos y frutos ms cortos. 
30218799|Three new species of Davilla (Davilla sessilifolia, Davilla minutifolia and Davilla aymardii) from Bahia, Brazil, are described and illustrated. Affinities and diagnostic characteristics of each species are discussed. The new species belong to Davilla sect. Homalochlaena. /// Trs novas espcies de Davilla (Davilla sessilifolia, Davilla minutifolia and Davilla aymardii) da Bahia, Brasil so descritas e ilustradas, e suas afinidades corn outras espcies e caractersticas diagnsticas discutidas. As trs novas espcies enquadram-se na Davilla sect. Homalochlaena.
2806192|Polystachya foliosa is lectotypified and a new triandrous variety of it is described from the Bahama Islands and Cuba.
2807005|Six New Zealand species are treated. 1. The correct basionym reference for Bazzania hochstetteri (Reichardt) Hodgson is Reichardt (1866). A key to the New Zealand vittate species of Bazzania is included. 2. The corret citation for Bazzania mittenii (Stephani) Stephani is given. 3. Lepidozia leptodictyon Herzog is placed in the synonymy of Pseudocephalozia lepidozioides R. Schuster. 4. Metahygrobiella chilensis Engel & Schuster is a new name for Cephalozia heteroica Schuster & Engel. 5. Metzegeria alpina. Schuster & Engel is described as new. 6. The correct citation for Pachyglossa Herzog is Herzog (1952).
2807035|Perperomia boekei, an endemic from Peru, and Peperomia antioquiensis, Piper perpusillum, and Piper valdivianum, all known only from the Department of Antioquia (Colombia), are described and illustrated, and their relationships are discussed. A new combination, Piper enckeaespicum (Trel. & Yuncker) Callejas, is proposed.
2806708|Parkia cachimboensis and P. bahiae are described from central and eastern Brazil respectively. The third new species, P. panurensis, which is widespread in central and western Amazonia, has passed hitherto under the incorrect name P. pectinata (Willd.) Benth.
2805831|A study of collections of Chrysobalanaceae provides range extensions of some species and additional information for a few poorly known ones. ten new species are here described and illustrated: Licania cabrerae, L. montana, L. morii, L. jefensis, L. pakaraimensis, L. marlenei, L. stewardii, L. aracaensis, Hirtella arenosa, H. conduplicata. Several of these are from high elevations, showing that the family is not exclusively of lowlands.
2805668|Chromosome counts, mostly new, are presented for twenty-seven taxa in Linum, Hesperolinon, and Sclerolinon, and their taxonomic significance is briefly discussed.
4098976|Two Andean tree fern species formerly united are hereby distinguished: Alsophila incana from Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, and Alsophila odonelliana from southern Bolivia and northern Argentina. New descriptions of both species as well as illustrations of important characters are given. Vegetative reproduction by means of stolons is reported for an Andean species of the genus for the first time.
2807270|A new genus, Jalcophila, is described in the tribe Inuleae (Asteraceae). Two new species are here described within the genus: J. peruviana from north-central Peru and J. ecuadorensis from northern and central Ecuador. Descriptions and illustrations are provided, and relationships discussed.
4497343|Interspecific hybridization occurs with high frequency in the genus Quercus, but few studies have analyzed and compared micromorphological characters in putative parental species and their hybrids. Quercus eduardii and Q. conzattii are two Mexican black oak species that, although distantly related, have formed at least one population of hybrid origin, where individuals with intermediate macromorphology are present. The purpose of this investigation was to analyze the degree of differentiation in micromorphological characters between the two species and to assess the expression of these characters in individuals with intermediate macromorphology. Foliar trichomes, epicuticular waxes, stomata, and pollen grains, were examined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) in the three types of individuals (Q. conzattii, Q. eduardii, and intermediates). Trichome density was quantified with light microscopy. Types of trichomes present, length of trichome arms, types of epicuticular wax on the leaf surfaces, and the position of stomata with respect to the foliar surface were characters useful to differentiate between Q. conzattii and Q. eduardii. Plants with intermediate macromorphology displayed a pattern of micromorphological characters that were identical to one parental species (Q. conzattii), or extreme or novel relative to both species.
30218766|Three species are described here that occur in montane and high-montane forests in Southeastern Brazil. Miconia shepherdii belongs to section Glossocentrum and occurs on the Serra da Mantiqueira, on the border between the states of So Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Rio de Janeiro. Miconia kollmannii belongs to section Hypoxanthus (former Chaenanthera) and occurs in the state of Esprito Santo. Ossaea suprabasalis was also collected in the state of Esprito Santo. /// As trs espcies descritas aqui ocorrem em florestas montanas e altomontanas no Sudeste do Brasil. Miconia shepherdii pertence  seo Glossocentrum e ocorre na Serra da Mantiqueira, na fronteira entre os estados de So Paulo, Minas Gerais e Rio de Janeiro. Miconia kollmannii pertence  seo Hypoxanthus (antiga Chaenanthera) e ocorre no estado do Esprito Santo. Ossaea suprabasalis tambm foi coletada no Esprito Santo.
2807834|A new combination, Tapeinostemon sessiliflorum (Gentianaceae), is made for Psychotria sessiliflora (Rubiaceae). Tapeinostemon capitatum is placed into synonymy of T. sessiliflorum. This rare species occurs in the Guayanan region of Brazil, Colombia, and Venezuela.
2807564|Aiouea opaca and Beilschmiedia hexanthera, recently collected in central French Guiana, are described and illustrated.
2805747|Chemical data are given for Cooksonia, Rhynia, Zosterophyllum, Pseudosporochnus, Gosslingia, Crenaticaulis, Leclercqia, Tetraxylopteris, Oocampsa, and Archaeopteris, thus extending principal taxa. Ordination patterns of these data suggest that while overlapping of major plant groups occurs, rhyniophytes, zosterophyllophytes, trimerophytes and other supra-generic taxa may be chemically characterized. The effets of heat (thermolysis) on organic constituents is shown to severely alter chemical profiles of plant taxa and is discussed as a thermometric tool. Taxonomic distance-measures between plant grouping are suggested to be the result of both pre- and post-fossilization phenomena.
30219399|Morphological and taxonomic studies have proposed changing the circumscription of Acosmium, with the recognition of two additional genera, Leptolobium and Guianodendron. A study on seedling morphology of all accepted species of Acosmium s.str., five species of Leptolobium, and Guianodendron praeclarum is presented, aiming to evaluate the systematic value of these characters. Guianodendron has crypto-hypogeal reserve seedlings, while Acosmium and Leptolobium have phaneroepigeal seedlings with foliaceous cotyledons. The latter two genera are distinguishable from each other mainly by hypocotyl shape, ratio of hypocotyl length to epicotyl length, nyctinasty of leaflets and cotyledons, shape and venation of cotyledons, stipule and leaflet morphology, presence or absence of intercotyledonary glands, and presence of glands on other vegetative parts. In conclusion, seedling morphology data provide relevant systematic characters that support the proposed changes in the generic delimitation of Acosmium.
2807867|Calyptranthes fusiformis (Myrtaceae), a new species from coastal forests of So Paulo, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
2806900|Five hundred sixty-one type specimens, representing 522 basionyms, of Piperaceae have been verified among the specimens of Piperaceae acquired by the New York Botanical Garden (NY) in the purchase of the Truman G. Yuncker Herbarium of DePauw University (DPU) in 1987. Included are types of 319 names published by T. G. Yuncker, as well as smaller numbers of types of names published by Trelease, C. de Candolle, Miquel, and others. Geographic emphasis of the specimens is on tropical America, particularly Brazil and Honduras, and the South Pacific. An index to the types, which includes basionym, place of publication, kind of type, and country of origin and collection number of type, is included.
2807027|Eragrostis riobrancensis (Poaceae, Chloridoideae), a new species with cleistogamous spikelets from sandy river banks of southern Guyana and adjacent Terr. Roraima, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
2807504|Lectotypes are designated for four of the six Linnaean names in Pyrola. The names are applied now to species of Chimaphila, Moneses, Orthilia, and Pyrola (Ericaceae, Pyroloideae).
2806495|The fern genus Anemia is represented in Mexico by 21 species and hybrids, of which five are here described as new: A. familiaris, A. muliplex, A. Xparaphyllitidis, A. Xrecondita and A. semihirsuta. Hybridization is frequent, resulting in both sterile and fertile hybrids, and has probably led to much recent speciation in the genus, including presumably sexual polyploids up to possibly the tetrakaidecaploid level.
2805639|Review of the procedures used in determining fossil plant organs indicates that the many Cretaceous records of extant genera of "Amentiferae" based on leaves should be rejected as theoretically unreliable. Palynological data, in combination with some valid megafossil data, indicate that most recognizable members of "Amentiferae" are no older than the later part of the Late Cretaceous. Juglandales appear to be derivatives of the ancient Normapolles complex and unrelated to other "Amentiferae." A preliminary account of some of the comparative foliar morphology of extant "Amentiferae" indicates that some-particularly Betulaceae and Fagaceae-are closely related to Hamamelidales but that other families notably Rhoipteleaceae, Juglandaceae, Didymelaceae, and Leitneriaceae-are unrelated to this order.
2807474| Three new species of Serjania (S. magnistipulata and S. morii from Baha, Brazil and S. schunkei from Peru) are described, discussed, and illustrated. 
2806441|Aliform-confluent xylem parenchyma discovered in the rubiaceous genus Gleasonia strengthens its controversial alliance with the problematical genera Henriquezia and Platycarpum. Retention of these three genera in the Rubiaceae is supported by the occurrence of two family characteristics among them: vestured pitting on the vessel elements of all and, in Henriquezia only, the ability to accumulate aluminum in the wood.
3218341|Lectotypes are selected for 10 names in Hypericum (Clusiaceae), Elatine (Elatinaceae), Arctostaphylos and Vaccinium (Ericaceae), Androsace (Primulaceae), and Viola (Violaceae).
30218816|A new species from the Bolivian highlands is described as Elaphoglossum cristatum. It is very similar to E. engelii but is characterized by a (for subsect. Muscosa unique) cristate perispore structure with irregular deposits (versus papillate spores), more densely ciliate petiole scales (50-80 versus 10-30 cilia per scale), somewhat thicker blade texture, denser scale cover, and paler, more reddish rhizome scales.
2806027|Juncus arequipensis and J. breviculmis are described as new species, and J. ramboi subsp. colombianus as a new subspecies. Juncus arcticus Willd. var. mexicanus (Willd.), var. montanus (Engelm.), and var. andicola (Hook.) are proposed as new combinations.
3218485|A review of the Argentinean specimens of Haplopappus Cass. has revealed two new species from Mendoza province, both of the section Haplopappus: H. boelkei, unique by its caespitose habit and long petiolate leaves, and H. mendocinus, related to H. macrocephalus (Less.) DC., H. ochagavianus Phil. and H. tiltilensis Phil.
2805847|Bentham's treatment of the Compositae in the Genera Plantarum is still, after more than a century, the most important basic reference work on the family. The scholarly challenge to Bentham's views by Small in 1917-1919 is severely compromised by Small's reliance on the Age and Area hypothesis. In 1955 I published a comprehensive paper on the phylogeny and taxonomy of the Compositae. My outlook was highly compatible with that of Bentham, as it remains today. A significant change in my views after 20 years is that I now take the woody habit to be primitive within the family, and the herbaceous habit derived, rather than the other way around. Many of the herbs have retained an active cambium, however, and some of these have reverted to a secondarily woody habit. The fossil record does not connect the Compositae to any other group. Recognizable members of the family can be traced back to the top of the Oligocene epoch. Some of the older fossils that have been referred to the Compositae, such as the Upper Cretaceous Palaeanthus problematicus, clearly do not belong, and others are at best doubtful. The ancestry to the Compositae remains in dispute. A long series of extinct forebears must be postulated in order to relate them to anything at all, and the chemical data are not in harmony with the morphological data. The most similar modern family is the Calyceraceae, but these can be no more than collateral relatives. I still hold to the view that the ancestry of the Compositae probably lies in the vicinity of the Rubiaceae. There is now a ferment about tribal classification in the Compositae, and several new tribes have recently been proposed. The least controversial of these is the Liabeae, which seems likely to become generally accepted. Application of recent chemical data may lead to further restriction of the Senecioneae, with several genera being transferred to the Helianthease or elsewhere. It now seems to be generally agreed that Bentham's tribe Helenieae must be dismembered, and that at least some of its components must be included in a more broadly defined tribe Heliantheae. Elevation of the Tagetinae to tribal status can be defended on both morphological and chemical grounds, but may not be necessary, since the relationship of the Tagetinae to the Heliantheae is clear. Carlquist's recent proposal to organize the tribes of Compositae into two sub-families of 6 tribes each is interesting but faulty. It has the virtue of putting most of the radiate tribes into one subfamily, but it minimizes the significance of the Arctotideae as a group connecting the radiate tribes to the discoid ones. Furthermore, it ignores the most obvious dichotomy in the family, which separates the Lactuceae from all the remaining tribes.
40980937|Phylogenetic analyses of the genus Oxyrhynchus and close relatives in the New World subtribe Phaseolinae have established that Vigna populnea is a species of Oxyrhynchus.Thus, a new combination is proposed. The genus Oxyrhynchus now includes O. populneus and two other neotropical species as well as one from the Papuasian region. The nomenclatural history of O. populneus is briefly presented and a comprehensive morphological description of the species is provided. A key to the four species of Oxyrhynchus is included. Anlisis filogenticos en el gnero Oxyrhynchus y gneros cercanos de la subtribu Phaseolinae han mostrado que Vigna populnea es una especie de Oxyrhynchus. Por lo tanto, una nueva combinacin es propuesta. El gnero Oxyrhynchus ahora incluye a O. populneus y otras dos especies neotropicales, como tambin otra de la regin Papuasiana. La historia nomenclatural de O. populneus es brevemente reseada y una descripcin morfolgica ms completa de esta especie es presentada. Una clave de las cuatro especies de Oxyrhynchus es incluida
2806283|Spiranthes diluvialis, a species known from widely scattered localities in the western United States, is formally described. It has been confused in the past with a number of other species. Morphological characters and cytological data indicate an origin through hybridization of S. magnicamporum and S. romanzoffiana.
40793379|The taxonomy, morphology, and geographic distributions of Habenaria crucifera and related species in section Nudae were investigated. Habenaria galeandriformis and H montiswilhelminae are included in the affinity of H. crucifera and four new taxa are described: H. cardiostigmatica, H. crucifera var. brevidactyla, H. guaraensis, and H. spanophytica. These species form a subgroup within section Nudae, characterized by linear grass-like leaves that are appressed to the stem; green flowers; simple or discretely bipartite petals; a tripartite lip; a rostellum midlobe completely placed between the two anther loci; stigma lobes that are closely parallel; and a separated hemipollinarium. This group of species ranges from the Guianas to the state of Rio Grande do Sul in southern Brazil, but is concentrated in the cerrado of central Brazil. Diagnostic characters, illustrations, descriptions and notes on the habitat, distribution, phenology, and conservation status are presented for all species here recognized. A taxonoma, morfologia e distribuiao geogrfica de Habenaria crucifera e especies relacionada na seco Nudae foi investigada. Habenaria galeandriformis e H.montiswilhelminae sao incluidas na afinidade de H. crucifera e quatro taxons novos sao descritos: H. cardiostigmatica, H. crucifera var. brevidactyla, H. guaraensis e H. spanophytica. Essas especies formam um subgrupo da seco Nudae caracterizado pelas folhas graminides, lineares, apressas ao caule, flores verdes, ptala simples ou discretamente bipartida, labelo tripartido, lobo mediano do rstelo completamente compreendido entre os lculos da antera, lobos do estigma prximos, paralelos, e hemipolinrios separados. A distribuiao das especies estende-se das Guianas at o estado do Rio Grande do Sul no sul do Brasil, mas concentra-se no cerrado do Brasil central. Caracteres diagnsticos, ilustraces, descrico e comentarios sobre o habitat, distribuiao, fenologia e status de conservaao so apresentados para cada especie.
2806358|Two morphological variants of Schizachyrium hirtiflorum are reduced to varietal rank under S. sanguineum. Schizachyrium semiberbe is included as a synonym of the typical variety of S. sanguineum.
2666526|The numbering system used by A. A. Heller for his 1895 Hawaiian collections has led to confusion regarding which specimens should be considered types. As part of a larger study of Hawaiian angiosperm types we have examined many of Heller's specimens and analyzed their status as types. We present the status of all specimens we have examined as well as those we are aware of from the literature. We have also constructed itineraries for Heller's collecting activities on his trip to the Hawaiian Islands on the islands of O'ahu and Kaua'i. Nomenclatural notes are given for all angiosperm basionyms based on Heller's Hawaiian collections. Lectotypifications are provided for Cyperus hillebrandii Boeck. var. helleri Kuk., Cyrtandra gayana A. Heller, Cyrtandra longifolia (Wawra) Hillebr. ex C. B. Clarke var. wahiawae A. Heller ex Rock, Euphorbia sparsiflora A. Heller, Isodendrion subsessilifolium A. Heller, Lobelia tortuosa A. Heller, Nania tremuloides A. Heller, Pelea microcarpa A. Heller, and Suttonia angustifolia Mez.
40648097|Trematolobelia (Campanulaceae: Lobeliodeae) is a genus of semelparous pliestesial pachycaul rosette treelets endemic to the Hawaiian Islands. Eight species are recognized. The most widespread is T. macrostachys, found in the Ko'olau Mountains of O'ahu and on Moloka'i and Maui. The remainder are single-island endemics: T. auriculata (Lna'i); T. grandiflora (Hawai'i); T. kaalae, comb, et stat. nov. (Wai'anae Mountains of O'ahu); T. kauaiensis (Kaua'i); T. rockii (Moloka'i); T. singularis (Ko'olau Mountains of O'ahu); and T. wimmeri (Hawai'i).
23254284|Changes to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature are decided on every 6 years at Nomenclature Sections associated with International Botanical Congresses (IBC). The XVIII IBC was held in Melbourne, Australia; the Nomenclature Section met on 18-22 July 2011 and its decisions were accepted by the Congress at its plenary session on 30 July. Several important changes were made to the Code as a result of this meeting that will affect publication of new names. Two of these changes will come into effect on 1 January 2012, some months before the Melbourne Code is published. Electronic material published online in Portable Document Format (PDF) with an International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) or an International Standard Book Number (ISBN) will constitute effective publication, and the requirement for a Latin description or diagnosis for names of new taxa will be changed to a requirement for a description or diagnosis in either Latin or English. In addition, effective from 1 January 2013, new names of organisms treated as fungi must, in order to be validly published, include in the protologue (everything associated with a name at its valid publication) the citation of an identifier issued by a recognized repository (such as MycoBank). Draft text of the new articles dealing with electronic publication is provided and best practice is outlined. To encourage dissemination of the changes made to the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants, this article will be published in BMC Evolutionary Biology, Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society, Brittonia, Cladistics, MycoKeys, Mycotaxon, New Phytologist, North American Fungi, Novon, Opuscula Philolichenum, PhytoKeys, Phytoneuron, Phytotaxa, Plant Diversity and Resources, Systematic Botany and Taxon.
30218804|Aperture morphology of tetrad pollen of Epilobium luteum (Onagraceae: Epilobieae) from three Alaskan collections is highly variable. The first collection appears to lack apertures altogether and is presumed to consist of immature pollen gains in a genus known to achieve mature size before the apertures become distinctly protruding. A second collection has tetrads with 3- and 4-apertured grains, the apertures in the latter are often irregularly spaced and not in apposition with the apertures of neighboring members. The third collection consists of the more typical 3-apertured members that characterize the majority of Epilobium pollen grains. In all of these collections individual pollen grains (monads) are interspersed among the tetrads. The variations in the number of apertures emphasize the importance of having a comprehensive understanding of the stage of development of the pollen (taxon) examined when describing pollen collections. In the first collection this would mean the recognition that in Onagraceae apertures occur in the later stages of microspore ontogeny. In the latter two collections a thorough background of the literature of the pollen morphology on this largest Onagraceae taxon is useful for the understanding of the significance of a range of aperture numbers on Epilobium pollen grains.
2805996|Chamaecrista (sect. Apoucouita) onusta Irwin & Barneby from coastal Bahia and Ch. (sect. Absus) hatschbachii Irwin & Barneby from north-central Minas Gerais are described, figured and systematically characterized. Four new combinations in Chamaecrista incidental to the discussion are proposed.
2807289|The integration of the vascular plants from the Yuncker Herbarium (DPU) into the New York Botanical Garden Herbarium (NY) has been completed, and the curatorial work is summarized. The most notable vascular plant collections, with emphasis on the local collections from Indiana, are reported on and a list of the most prominent collectors is presented. An index to all collectors of vascular plants represented in the Yuncker Herbarium has been deposited in the New York Botanical Garden Library.
2807864|Zornia confusa is described and illustrated. This species is found from Mexico to central Brazil. A key to the South American species of Zornia with fruits longer than their protecting bracts is provided.
40648098|Twelve new South American species of Loranthaceae (Aetanthus, Cladocolea, Oryctanthus, and Struthanthus) and Viscaceae (Dendrophthora and Phoradendron) are described and illustrated: Aetanthus trifolius, Cladocolea rostrifolia, Dendrophthora lanceolata, Dendrophthora rotundata, Dendrophthora tenuis, Dendrophthora werffii, Oryctanthus minor, Phoradendron pascoi, Phoradendron vasquezianum, Struthanthus apiculatus, Struthanthus schultesii, and Struthanthus sessiliflorus. Additionally, Cladocolea alternifolia, previously thought to be probably extinct, is reported to occur on Ilha Grande, just west of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
30218763|In the course of monographic work in Myrtaceae it has become evident that Eugenia prismatica cannot be accommodated within any existing genus in the family. Therefore, a new genus, Curitiba, is described to contain it and the new combination Curitiba prismatica is made. Curitiba is diagnosed by a combination of 4angled hypanthia and fruits, ovules radiating from a central protruding placenta, and seed coats with wavy rows of papillae. A key is provided to distinguish Curitiba from the Caribbean and Mesoamerican genus Mosiera, where the species also had been placed before this transfer, and from other 4-merous genera in Brazil of subtribe Myrtinae. In the Atlantic Forest of Brazil where the family Myrtaceae is one of the most species rich and ecologically important plant families, the discovery of Curitiba reveals a unique evolutionary lineage, highlights the endemism present in the Atlantic Forest, and underscores the urgent need for conservation of this rapidly disappearing and highly endangered biome.
3218431| Dahlia spectabilis (Asteraceae, Coreopsideae), a new species from San Luis Potos, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The plant is distinguished by its large habit, big flowering heads, and overall lack of trichomes. It occurs within the natural range for the genus and is known from only one location where it is under heavy grazing pressure. [Spanish]Dahlia spectabilis (Asteraceae, Coreopsideae), una especie nueva del estado de San Luis Potos, Mxico, es descrita e ilustrada. Se distingue por su hbito ms grande, su grandes inflorescencias y la falta de tricomas. Ocuriendo dentro del rango natural del gnero, conocida solo por un poblacn, la cual est sufriendo por presin de ganado. 
2666510|Campomanesia simulans, a new species from the states of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
2805795|Sectional relationships are discussed for ligneous Coreopsis occuring in Mexico. Morphological, chromosomal, and chemical data are presented for sections Electra, Anathisana and Pseudo-Agarista. The former two sections appear to be closely allied because they share a number of morphological features and synthesize several of the same flavonoids. The hypothesis is presented that plants of sect. Anathysana, with a base chromosome number of x = 12, have evolved from plants similar to those found in sect. Electra, the base number of which is x = 14. Section Pseudo-Agarista is quite distinct from and presumably not closely related to the other two sections. Data from morphology and flavonoid chemistry support this interpretation. The base chromosome number in sect. Pseudo-Agarista is x = 13. Keys, descriptions, distributions and critical comments are provided for the six species of sect. Pseudo-Agarista recognized for Mexico.
2807838| A new species of Picramnia (Picramniaceae) is described, illustrated, and compared to related Amazonian species. The new species, Picramnia coccinea, is known only from three localities in three adjacent municipalities near Ilhus, bahia, and constitutes another example of endemism in the southern Bahian flora. 
2666491|Two new Brazilian species of the genus Huberia, H. carvalhoi and H. consimilis, are described, discussed, and illustrated. Huberia carvalhoi is endemic to Bahia; H. consimilis has a wider distribution, with disjunct populations in Pernambuco, Bahia, and Rio de Janeiro. A key is provided to the three Bahia taxa with some comments on the taxonomic affinities of the two new species.
2807845|Two Nevada species are described here for the first time: Penstemon tiehmii N. H. Holmgren, which is endemic to Mount Lewis of the Shoshone Range in Lander County; and Penstemon rhizomatosus N. H. Holmgren, which is endemic to the central Schell Creek Range in White Pine County. They both belong to section Saccanthera and are closely related to P. kingii S. Watson, a Great Basin endemic of valley sagebrush habitats. Both new species are talus plants of higher elevations and differ from P. kingii principally in their rhizomatous habit, petiolate leaves, and pubescence of shorter hairs.
2805591|Byrsonima dressleri is newly described as endemic to the low cloud forests of Panama adjacent to the Canal Zone. Its closest relationship appears to be with those taxa of the Guayana Highland and Amazonia.
2807243|Begonia (sect. Begoniastrum) mariannensis is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relative, B. glandulifera Griseb., likewise from Trinidad. The new taxon differs markedly in its much smaller habit, distinctly differently shaped leaf blades, and its much-reduced peduncles.
3218372| The genus is characterized by one autoapomorphic character, the separation of anther thecae by a bifid connective, and the combination of small to medium-sized stems, bifid simple leaf blades, floral pits in bud covered by a rounded upper lip that overlaps a lower lip, and pistillate flowers with staminodial lobes that are displayed in a starlike shape. Five species are recognized in this treatment: one of them (Asterogyne martiana) is widely distributed from Belize in Central America to northern Ecuador, three species (A. ramosa, A. spicata, and A. yaracuyense) are endemic to small areas in the Venezuelan Coastal Range, and one species (A. guianensis) is endemic to eastern French Guiana. The taxonomic history, morphology, reproductive biology, distribution and ecology, intrageneric relationships, and conservation status are reviewed. ///[Spanish]Se presenta una revison taxonmica del 00E9;nero neotropical Asterogyne Hook. (Arecaceae: Arecoideae: Geonomeae). El gnero se caracteriza por un carcter autoapomrfico, tecas separadas por un conectivo bfido, adems de tener tallos de pequeo a mediano tamao, lminas foliares enteras y bfidas, fveas florales cubiertas por un labio superior redondeado que sobrelapa el labio inferior, flores pistiladas con lbulos estaminodiales dispuestos de manera estrellada. Para este tratamiento se reconocen cinco especies: una de ellas (Asterogyne martiana) ampliamente distribuida desde Belice en Amrica Central hasta el norte de Ecuador, tres especies (A. ramosa, A. spicata, and A. yaracuyense) endmicas de pequeas reas en la Cordillera de la Costa de Venezuela y una especie (A. guianensis) endmica del oriente de la Guyana Francesa. Se revisa la historia taxonmica, morfologa, biologa reproductiva, distribucin, ecologa, relaciones intragenricas y estado de conservacon. 
2806295|Penstemon apateticus Straw is found to be synonymous with P. miniatus Lindl. Penstemon miniatus subsp. apateticus and P. miniatus subsp. townsendianus are presented as new combinations.
2806433|Paramachaerium Ducke, a genus of neotropical trees, has been known hitherto from three species, P. schomburgkii (Guyana and Brazil), P. ormosioides (French Guiana and Brazil), and P. gruberi (Panama). Two new species are herein described, P. krukovii (western Brazil) and P. schunkei (Peru).
2805580|Piqueria (Erythradenia) pyramidalis B. L. Robinson is placed in a separate genus with the new combination Erythradenia pyramidalis (B. L. Robinson) R. M. King & H. Robinson. It is considered a close relative of the genus Decachaeta DC.
2805468|A comparison of three heretofore undescribed species with the previously known species in Tigridia subgen. Hydrotaenia suggests a realignment of taxa within the various complexes in Hydrotaenia. Three species, T. venusta, T. illecebrosa, and T. catarinensis, and two subspecies, T. hallbergii ssp. lloydii and T. ehrenbergii ssp. flaviglandifera, are described. Sessilanthera citrina is described and the new taxonomic combination S. heliantha (Ravenna) Cruden is proposed.
3218412| The tribe Spathicarpeae is one of the most poorly known-tribes in the Araceae. Recently, field collections in some areas of Bolivia have revealed many interesting members of this tribe. Two new species, Gorgonidium striatum Hett., P L. lbisch & E. G. Gon. and Spathantheum fallax Hett., P L. Ibisch & E. G. Gon. are here described, illustrated, and compared to their closest relatives. 
2807248|A reevaluation of floral and vegetative morphology together with data from analysis of floral fragrance and flavonoid co-pigment chemistry suggest that specific status is warranted for the two kinds of Phalaenopsis violacea Witte known informally as the "Bornean type" and the "Malaya type." Phalaenopsis violacea var. bellina Rchb.f. is elevated to specific rank, providing a name for the "Bornean type" plants.
3218532|Asplenium basiscopicum is described, illustrated, and compared to the most similar species, A. purpurascens.
2666504|A new species of the genus Microlicia, M. flava, from the highland "campo rupestre" vegetation of Serra da Canastra National Park, Sao Roque de Minas, Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
41406765|Material from southern Bolivia, recently collected by Stephan Beck, is described as a new genus and species, Stephanbeckia plumosa (Compositae: Liabeae). Both morphological and molecular data place the genus in the broadly interpreted subtribe Paranepheliinae, but clearly distinct from other members. It differs morphologically by its small size, deciduous plumose pappus, lack of paleae, and compressed bicostate achenes. A key to the genera of the Liabeae is provided.
2806782|Vernonia giannasii, a new species from Ecuador, is described and illustrated.
2805268|Anatomical study of the genus Dendroseris (Compositae: Cichorieae), endemic to the Juan Fernandez Islands, was undertaken to determine if segregate genera were valid. Other questions include the significance of pith bundles and of receptacular bristles, and whether the ancestors of these peculiar rosette trees and shrubs were woody or herbaceous. Anatomical evidence, when added to that from gross morphology, suggests that the segregation as distinct genera of Rea, Phoenicoseris, and Hesperoseris is probably not justified, and that they are better treated as subgenera of Dendroseris. Differences in pollen morphology, floral trichomes, achene and leaf anatomy provide good species characteristics. These all appear, respectively, as variations on a basic plan, and Dendroseris can be envisaged as derived from a common stock in the Juan Fernandez Islands. The genus is not particularly primitive within the family or tribe. The presence of additional bundles in the flowers of D. litoralis may be interpreted as related to gigantism. The separate corolla lobes in D. gigantea probably do not represent a vestige of an actinomorphic condition. Pith bundles in Dendroseris may have been present in ancestors; in any case, they seem likely to have increased in prominence with increase in stem diameter. Available evidence seems to favor the interpretation of growth forms in Dendroseris as derived from an herbaceous ancestry.
2807720|Three new species of Dasylirion and a new variety of D. longissimum Lem. from the mountains of northern Mexico are described and illustrated. Two of the new species are from northwestern Mexico: D. gentryi, with large, rosecolored fruits and glossy, non-waxy leaves; and D. sereke, characterized by roundish fruits with an unusually large style. Dasylirion miquihuanense is a new species from northern Mexico with narrow, strictly upright leaves and widely separated marginal prickles. The Dasylirion longissimum complex consists of two species, D. quadrangulatum S. Wats. and D. longissimum Lem., characterized by narrow, quadragulate leaves with reduced or absent marginal prickles. Distinguishing features of these two species, which have often been confused, are presented and D. longissimum var. treleasei, characterized by small flowers and fruits, is described.
2806828|In the rutaceous subtribe Cuspariinae, species with relatively large, valvate, colored calyces have been assigned to Erythrochiton, but differences in arrangement of leaves, type of inflorescence, union of petals, of filaments, and of carpels, indument of corolla and testa, appendages of anthers, height of the intrastaminal disc, and exine of the pollen argue for the recognition of three genera. Erythrochiton s. str., characterized by often perennating inflorescences, connate, usually glabrous petals, free carpels, tomentulose seeds, and spinulose exine, consists of seven species of which four are new: E. fallax from the eastern flancks of the Andes from Colombia to Bolivia, E. odontoglossus from western Ecuador and adjacent Peru, E. trichanthus from eastern Peru, and E. gymnanthus from Costa Rica. The assignment to Toxosiphon of four species with woolly, coherent petals, connate carpels, glabrous seeds, and reticulate exine necessitates three new combinations: T. carinatus, T. macropodus, and T. trifoliatus. Recognition of a third unispecific genus with opposite simple leaves, sparsely pubescent, coherent, clawed petals, and spinulose exine requires a new genus name, Desmotes, and a new combination, D. incomparabilis.
4098949|Astragalus mokiacensis has been a problematic species since it was first described in 1877. Every major revision delimited this taxon differently. A principal components analysis of morphological data from herbarium specimens was used to determine the affinities between type specimens and extant populations of A. mokiacensis. The taxon recently recognized as A. lentiginosus var. trumbullensis is morphologically similar to the lectotype of Astragalus mokiacensis. Astragalus lentiginosus var. trumbullensis is herein recognized as a low-elevation minor variant and considered a synonym of A. mokiacensis. A taxonomic key and complete synonymy are included.
2806783|The leaf flavonoid chemistry of Coreopsis grandiflora, which includes var. harveyana, var. longipes, var. saxicola and the typical var. grandiflora, is quite uniform with 6-hydroxiquercetin 7-0-glucoside, luteolin 7-0-glucoside, marein-martimein chalcone-aurone pair and lanceolin-leptosin chalcone-aurone pair as consistent components. Flavonoid data lend support to the hypothesis that the hexaploid var. longipes originated from parents which would be included within C. grandiflora, i.e., there is no evidence that other species were involved in its formation. One populationof var. grandiflora and several collections of var. saxicola contain additional flavonoid components in the form of flavonol 3-0-glycosides. In nearly all instances the additional compounds are attributable to hybridization with C. lanceolata or C. pubescens because these flavonols are characteristc of these two species and morphological considerations also suggest it. Flavonoid chemistry supports the treatmetn of var. saxicola as a variety of C. grandiflora rather than as a distinct species.
2805691|Data on chromosome numbers in eleven species and three forms of Cirsium are presented. The species treated are C. nivale (H.B.K.) Schultz Bip., C. jorullense (H.B.K.) Spreng., C. durangense (Greenman) Ownbey, C. ochrocentrum Gray, C. undulatum (Nutt.) Spreng., C. velatum (Wats.) Petrak, C. Mexicanum DC., C. rhaphilepis (Hemsley) Petrak, C. occidentalis (Nutt.) Jepson subsp. acrolepis Petrak, C. conspicuum (Sweet) Schultz Bip., and C. ehrenbergii Schultz Bip. A case of autotriploidy is reported for C. durangense. Natural hybridization between C. durangense and a form of C. mexicanum is reported. Photomicrographs of the mitotic or meiotic chromosomal configurations of nine species and two forms are reproduced. C. ochrocentrum Gray var. durangense Greenman is raised to species rank.
2805769|Keckia Straw, having been found to be a later homonym, is renamed Keckiella. The appropriate combinations are made for the seven species.
3218407|A new species, Boechera glareosa, is described and a key is provided to separate it from its apparent closest relative, B. gunnisoniana (Rollins) W. A. Weber. Twelve transfers are made from Arabis to Boechera to bring the nomenclature of Rocky Mountain region taxa in line with current DNA data.
2805923|Evidence from morphology, flavonoid chemistry, and field observations suggests that Populus acuminata is of hybrid origin. The putative parents are P. angustifolia, the narrow-leaf cottonwood, and deltoid-leaved plants that are assigned to P. sargentii (P. deltoides var. occidentalis), P. fremontii, or P. wislizenii (P. fremontii var. wislizenii). Populus angustifolia exhibits a series of flavonol glycosides (kaempferol, quercetin, and myricetin) in its leaves. By contrast, the major leaf flavonoids of the broad-leaved plants are flavone glycosides (apigenin and luteolin). Populus acuminata is intermediate between the suspected parents in morphological features. Additionally, the leaves of most P. acuminata plants contain the exact summation of the flavonoid compounds characteristic of the putative parents. A diploid chromosome number of 2n = 38 was obtained for six plants, which confirms the one previous report for the species. Meiosis was regular in all cases. Correlated data indicate that the majority of plants of P. acuminata represent $F_1$ hybrids and that complex hybridization is not common. Evidence from morphological and chemical studies is presented to show that in certain instances backcrossing to both parents has occurred. Results gathered in this study show that P. X andrewsii is undoubtedly "typical" P. acuminata, but the type specimen is from a sucker shoot, and thus has been interpreted as a backcross to P. sargentii. Populus acuminata var. rehderi is not considered worthy of taxonomic recognition.
3218542| Phylogenetic analyses were conducted to determine the relationships between and characterize the morphological variation among three genera of Anacardiaceae: Bonetiella, Pseudosmodingium, and Smodingium. The first two genera are endemic to Mexico and the third to South Africa. Bonetiella and Smodingium are monotypic. Pseudosmodingium has eight species, six extant and two fossil, and all were included in the analyses. Fifty-six anatomical characters for leaves, wood, and fruit, as well as morphological characters, were considered. Our results indicate that Smodingium is not closely related to Pseudosmodingium and Bonetiella, and that these last two genera are sister taxa. Pseudosmodingium is a monophyletic group and the two fossil species are related to species from the same geographical area of central Mexico where they were found, Fruit anatomical characters were significant at the generic level, while leaf anatomical characters were important at the species level in Pseudosmodingium. ///[Spanish]En este trabajo se Ilevaron a cabo anlisis filogenticos para determinar las relaciones filogenticas as como caracterizar la variacin morfolgica de tres gneros de Anacardiaceae: Bonetiella, Pseudosmodingium y Smodingium. Los dos primeros son endmicos a Mxico y el tercero a Sudfrica. Bonetiella y Smodingium son monotpicos. Pseudosmodingium incluye ocho especies, dos fsiles y el resto vivientes, y todas fueron consideradas en los anlisis. Se consideraron 56 caracteres tanto anatmicos como morfolgicos de hojas, madera y frutos. Nuestros resultados indican que Smodingium no est cercanamente relacionado a Pseudosmodingium y Bonetiella, y que estos dos ltimos gneros son taxa hermanos. Pseudosmodingium es un grupo monofiltico y las dos especies fsiles estn relacionadas a espcies que crecen en las mismas reas geogrficas del centro de Mxico, donde fueron descubiertas. Los caracteres anatmicos del fruto fueron significativos a nivel genrico, mientras que los de hoja fueron importantes a nivel de especies en Pseudosmodingium. 
2806542|Eschweilera mexicana, a new species of Lecythidaceae from the Uxpanapa rain forests of southeastern Veracruz and adjacent Oaxaca, represents a new family for the Mexican flora. It is a locally common canopy tree in an area considered to have served as a refuge for rain forest species during the Pleistocene. Its closest relative is E. hondurensis, a species known only by one fruiting collection.
3218456| A revision of the neotropical genus Paragynoxys of the Asteraceae (tribe Senecioneae) is presented. This group is a distinct entity characterized by a pachycaulous arborescent habit, homogamous discoid capitula, the presence of white corollas with limbs divided to the base, sagittate anthers, and style branches with enlarged conical tips. In the present treatment, 12 species are accepted. Descriptions of the genus and species, a key to species, synonyms, a new combination (Paracalia lopezii, based on Paragynoxys lopezii), and distribution data are presented. /// [Spanish]Se presenta una revisin del gnero neotropical Paragynoxys (Asteraceae, Senecioneae-Tussilagininae). Este taxn se caracteriza por el hbito arborescente paquicaule, y por presentar capitulos homgamos discoideos, corolas blancas con et limbo dividido hasta la base, anteras sagitadas y ramas estigmticas con los extremos alargados y cnicos. En et presente tratamiento, se aceptan 12 especies. Adems, se presentan las descripciones del gnero y de las especies, una clave de las especies, sinnimos, una combinacin nueva (Paracalia lopezii, basado en Paragynoxys lopezii), y datos de distribucin. 
2807681| The names Solanum mozinianum Dunal and Solanum Uniflorum Sess & Moio are lectotypified on paintings made during the Royal Botanical Expedition to New Spain, now housed at the Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation, Pittsburgh. 
2806402|Astragalus cenorrhynchus Barneby is related to A. oxyrrhynchus Hemsl., endemic to the Valley of Mexico, but differs in dimished stature, few-flowered racemes of yellowish flowers, and plumper, apically unilocular pod.
2805833|The monotypic genus Polakowskia is reduced to a section of Frantzia. Two new species from Costa Rica, F. villosa and F. talamancensis, are described. The new nomenclatural combination, F. tacaco (Pittier) Wunderlin, is proposed.
2805444|Chromosome numbers are reported for 155 collections of Castilleja representing 54 taxa. The basic haploid number of 12 was found in 34 taxa, but 10 of these also had one or more polyploid levels. The remaining 20 species were strictly polyploid in one or more levels (4X, 6X, 8X, 10X, 12X). The widespread occurrence of polyploidy, along with hybridization, is believed to be largely responsible for the complex morphological variation found within the genus. Specific examples of the role of polyploidy and hybridization in creating this variation are discussed for the following species complexes: C. affinis, C. applegatei, C. miniata, C. peckiana.
2806166|Stigma anatomy, pollen morphology, cotyledon structure and other traits suggest that two species formerly considered members of Merremia fall outside and acceptable range of variation for that genus. A new genus, Xenostegia, is proposed for these two species.
2807529|Obolinga zanonii Barneby is described as a new monotypic genus from disturbed cloud forest of the Sierra de Bahoruco-Massif de la Selle mountain system in southeastern Haiti and southwestern Dominican Republic. The genus is to be added to tribe Ingeae of Mimosaceae, and is believed on the basis of gross morphology, wood anatomy, and pollen structure to be nearest to the genus Cojoba. From this it differs in a massive terete pod completely filled with a stack of large discoid seeds clothed in a lustrous papery testa and inertly dehiscent on the ground. The structurally comparable fruit of the Malayan genus Cylindrokelupha, currently referred to Archidendron, is ascribed to parallelism. The species is illustrated with line drawings.
2807468|Information on C. arizonica, C. hapalocarpa, C. mcvaughii, C. parviflora, and C. pectinata published in a monograph of the genus in 1983 is updated. The generic affinities of C. myriantha and C. sinaloensis are resolved, with the former placed in Carlowrightia and the latter removed to a separate genus. The new combination C. neesiana, necessitated by conservation of the generic name Carlowrightia, is provided for the species previously known as C. glandulosa. Two new species from western Mexico, C. fuertensis and C. huicholiana, are described, mapped, and illustrated.
2807546|Lecointea (Fabaceae: Swartzieae) is briefly reviewed in order to place in context a new species (L. marcano-bertii Barneby) from western Venezuela and a new Ecuadorian variety of L. peruviana J. F. Macbr. (var. lasiogyne Barneby). The new taxa are discussed, the new species is illustrated, and a dispersal map and a key to the South American members of Lecointea are provided.
3218360| An intellectual biography of Elie-Abel Carrire is presented, including a list of taxa named by him in the gymnosperms. He was the leading authority on gymnosperms in the middle years of the 19th century, and he was also the major French horticulturist of that era. He was also an active proponent of the reforestation of the mountains that began under Napoleon III after many decades of popular resistance. 
2806625| One new species, Astragalus tiehmii, and two new varieties, A. convallarius var. margaretae and A. oophorus var. lavinii, are described from Nevada; the relationships of each are discussed and the first is illustrated. Two new combinations, A. eurylobus (Barneby) Barneby and A. serenoi var. shockleyi (M. E. Jones) Barneby are proposed and defended. A new species, A. bryogenes, is described from high Andean Peru (Junn). 
2806112|This report presents a new combination, Palicourea brachyloba, for a white-flowered Amazonian species in anticipation of its use in other publications. Comments on the local name and utilization are given.
2805816|Six interspecific backcross progenies were generated by crossing hybrids of C. saluenensis X C. japonica (C. X williamsii) back to C. japonica. Segregation data were obtained within these six families for five traits, three involving flavonoid constituents and two pubescence characters. A single major gene seemed to be primarily involved in each case, and two of the traits exhibited linkage behavior. The taxonomic value of such marker traits is discussed.
2806603|A revision is presented of the neotropical genus Isertia Schreber. Cassupa Humb. & Bonpl. is given a new status as Isertia section Cassupa (Humb. & Bonpl.) B. M. Boom, based on differences in fruit type, number of locules in the ovary, and number of lobes of the stigma. A new combination is made at the species level, I. laevis (Triana) B. M. Boom, and a new species from Panama is described and illustrated, I. scorpioides B. M. Boom. Altogether, fourteen species and one variety are recognized in the genus.
2805650|A predominantly autogamous breeding system is described for P. occidentale Scribn., P. pacificum Hitchc. & Chase, and P. thermale Boland. Five synthetic hybrids and three generations of progeny are also described for crosses among these three species. All parents haven n = 9 chromosomes and normal meiosis. Hybrids exhibit various irregularities during meiosis, but nine bivalents are usually formed. One population of P. occidentale and one of P. thermale were found to have chromosomes with interchanges larger than those of other populations. The &F_2$ and $F_3$ generations had markedly increased fertility, as determined by pollen stainability. It is proposed that autogamy and hybridization are a common means of maintaining and stabilizing genetic variability in these grasses and that these means account for much of the taxonomic difficulty posed by the subgenus. The possibility of a low rate of introgression between populations is also proposed.
2806938|Recent fieldwork in Ecuador has revealed several new and interesting species of Ericaceae. A brief summary of the diversity of Ericaceae in Ecuador is given followed by descriptions and illustration of one new species, Themistoclesia molaui Luteyn, and one re-discovery, Thibaudia jorgensenii A. C. Smith, and discussions of three new distribution records.
30219376|The morphological variation of recently described species (also the older taxa) of Zamia distributed within southeastern Mexico that have wide, coriaceous leaflets is analyzed. The complex is designated as the Z. katzeriana species complex in reference to an historic collection of this name, which is also the earliest named species in the complex. The complex consists of Z. cremnophila, Z. lacandona, Z. splendens and Z. purpurea. During the 1990's, Z. splendens was separately synonymized under Z. katzeriana and Z. verschaffeltii, both collected in Mexico by German collectors during the 18th century, but the precise locality is unknown. Information concerning the incomplete holotype of Z. verschaffeltii is particularly ambiguous, and the possible type locality suggested by Schuster, Socorro, is imprecise, thus generating taxonomic confusion. Morphometric characterization and discriminant analysis of the contemporary and historic collections (i.e., Z. katzeriana and Z. verschaffeltii) included all the known populations (11) and individuals (115) of the complex throughout its range. The results show that Z. verschaffeltii is not morphometrically related to any of the species in the complex and that Z. splendens should be considered a synonym of Z. katzeriana.
2806873|Carex L. section Ceratocystis Dumort. is distinct from the closely related section Spirostachyae (Drejer) L. Bailey. Differences in pistillate spike morphology, achene shape, and perigynium epidermis are augmented by chemical, cytological, and micromorphological evidence. Character compatibility analysis has been used to reconstruct the phylogenetic history of the sedges in section Ceratocystis. The resulting network is shown to be robust when tested with cytological, ecological, and micromorphological data not included in its construction. Agmatoploidy has been the dominant process of chromosomal evolution in the section.
2806952|New distributional records of hydroxycinnamoyl spermidines (HCS), including novel trisubstituted HCSs and flavonol glycosides, in pollen of Higher Hamamelidae are presented. The 51 taxa analyzed by HPLC and TLC included members of the families Fagaceae (Castanoideae, Fagoideae, Quercoideae), Betulaceae, Juglandaceae, Myricaceae, Hamamelidaceae, Rosaceae, and Buxaceae (Simmondsia). The results support generic concepts in the Higher Hamamelidae derived from morphological and chloroplast DNA data and support a close evolutionary relationship between the Higher Hamamelidae and the Rosidae.
3218441| A new genus of Violaceae is described from Brazil. Hybanthopsis Paula-Souza, with a single species (H. bahiensis Paula-Souza), is endemic to caatingas of Bahia, Brazil, and is morphologically most similar to Hybanthus, from which it differs by the fruit morphology and especially its peculiar seeds. ///[Spanish]Um novo gnero brasileiro de Violaceae  descrito. Hybanthopsis Paula-Souza, com uma nica espcie (H. bahiensis Paula-Souza),  endmico de caatingas do Estado da Bahia, e  morfologicamente mais similar a Hybanthus, do qual difere pela morfologia do fruto e especialmente por suas sementes peculiares. 
2806039|Some recent systematic investigations have placed great reliance on micromorphological floral features in generic delimitation in the Senecioneae. In order to test the taxonomic value of those features, 31 species of New World "Cacalioid" and "Senecionoid" Senecioneae were examined for five micromorphological characters: 1) configuration and distribution of the stigmatic area on the style branches, 2) stylopodial structure, 3) cellular structure of the carpopodium, 4) configuration of the anther collar, and 5) form of the endothecial cells in the anther. LM or SEM photographs were made for each character for each species. Variation was found to exist with was age and geographical range for each of these characters and sometimes between florets on one capitulum. Differences in these five microcharacters were found between the "Cacalioid" and "Senecionoid" genera, but they were no more consisten than the differences in traditional characters employed in generic delimitation.
2806627|Taxonomic investigations on the West Indian Hypnaceae have resulted in the following new taxa, Taxiphyllum gallorum, Ectropothecium aquaticum, and Irelandia (for Isopterygium robusticaule). Vesicularia in the West Indies is treated as a single species with four varieties, V. vesicularis var. vesicularis, var. rutilans (Brid.) comb. nov., var. portoricensis (Brid.) comb. nov., and var crassicaulis (Mitt.) comb. nov. Chryso-hypnum is segregated from Mittenothamnium; the combination C. diminutivum (Hampe) Buck is made.
2807142|The new species, Habenaria brownelliana, is described. It is closely related to H. entomantha and H. guadalaharana with regard to overall appearance, and flower size and morphology, but differs from them in its linear-lanceolate leaves, broadly ovate dorsal sepal 6-7 mm wide and longer pedicillate ovary 15-21 mm long.
2806154|A new species of Paspalum, P. nummularium, is described and illustrated.
2806876|Observations are presented on new and critical plants from the northern sand cays on the Great Barrier Reef, Queensland, Australia, based mainly on recent collections made by David R. Stoddart and Ralf Buckley. New species and varieties are described: Lepturus stoddartii (Poaceae), Boerhavia fistulosa var. fistulosa and var. puberuliflora (Nyctaginaceae), Boerhavia albiflora var. heronensis, Spermacoce everistiana (Rubiaceae), and Spermacoce buckleyi; a new combination is made: Diospyros ferrea var. compacta (R. Br.) (Ebenaceae); and additional taxonomic notes are given on Boerhavia, Euphorbia (Euphorbiaceae), and Abutilon (Malvaceae).
2806163|Several species of rodents have been observed visiting the flowers of an undescribed species of Blakea (Melastomataceae) in a cloud forest in Costa Rica. The rodents drink the copious nectar secreted at the base of the stamens and are dusted with pollen. The first report of pollination by non-flying mammals in the neotropics suggests that this type of pollination may be important where there is little competition with bats.
2806854|Calliandra anthoniae is described and illustrated, and the combination Pseudopiptadenia suaveolens is made.
2806875|Ipomopsis sancti-spiritus, a new species in sect. Ipomopsis, from the mountains of northern New Mexico is described and illustrated. The purplish calyx, pink corolla, and a short pistil with the stigma situated below the included stamens represent a unique combination of characters. The new species is similar to I. arizonica but differs primarily in corolla color and in lenght of the pistil.
2807351|Tricholoma fulvimarginatum is described as a new species of Agaricales from eastern North America. This fungus belongs in subgenus Tricholoma section Genuina due to the coloration of the pileus surface. The orange-brown pileus, marginate lamellae, and presumed mycorrhizal association with Populus deltoides distinguish this species from others in the section.
2666505|A new species, Grias longirachis S. A. Mori & J. L. Clark, with enclosed calyx in bud and unusually long inflorescence rachises, is described based on collections from northwestern Ecuador. A key to the species of Grias is provided.
2666632|Phenetic analysis of 218 OTUs belonging to Vaccinium section Myrtillus and scored for 13 characters generated five robust clusters. Vaccinium pavifolium is the most distinct cluster, followed by the "myrtillus- scoparium" complex, then V. membranaceum, V. caespitosum, and the "ovalifolium-deliciosum" complex. Biosystematic studies suggest that the five clusters comprise seven taxa that possess many of the properties that define biological species. Indeed, the recognition of the seven taxa as species is supported by cytological, phonological, biogeographical and ecological as well as chemical data. A detailed taxonomic treatment for all these taxa is presented.
2807630| The new species, Jalcophila boliviensis (Asteraceae: Gnaphalieae) is described and illustrated. A discussion of the systematic position of Jalcophila Dillon & Sagst. and a key to the three species of the genus are presented. 
40792902|Senecio altimontanus, a new species from the states of Minas Grais and So Paulo, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Senecio altimontanus appears to be restricted to high-elevation grasslands (campos de altitude). This new species is characterized by its usually simple stems that are densely leafy apically, coriaceous leaves, and 1-5 corymbiform capitulescences. It is closely related to Senecio apensis from which it differs by the size, shape, and margins of the leaves, the number of phyllaries, and pubescence of the cypselae. Senecio altimontanus, urna nova especie coletada nos estados de Minas Gerais e So Paulo, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Senecio altimontanus parece ser restrita aos campos de altitude. Esta nova especie  caracterizada pelos seus ramos usualmente simples, folhas coriceas, concentradas no pice dos ramos e inflorescencia corimbiforme com 1 a 5 captulos. Ela  morfolgicamente relacionada a Senecio apensis, da qual difere pelo tamanho, forma e margem foliar, nmero de brcteas involucris e cipselas pubescentes.
2807668|Two new species Guzmania herrerae ang G. scandens, that have been mistakenly identified as G. dissitiflora are described and illustrated. All three taxa belong to a natural complex of species that corresponds to the formerly recognized segregate genus Massangea E. Morren. However, without additional morphological and molecular evidence we believe it is premature to recognize this species complex as a genus separate from Guzmania.
2806673|The seed morphology of 15 species of Sagina from North America, Europe, and eastern Asia was studied, utilizing the scanning electron microscope, to determine the significance of seed coat features as taxonomic characters. There is variation in particular surface features within some members of the genus. However, superficial ridges and tubercules exhibit patterns very helpful in determining relationships among some species. Two basic seed types occur in the genus and are diagnostic at the sectional level. The saginoid seed, characteristic of section Sagina, is obliquely triangular in outline, is grooved along the two dorsal ridges, and has slightly concave lateral surfaces. The crassuloid seed, characteristic of section Maxima, is obliquely reniform in outline, lacks dorsal grooves, and has shallowly convex lateral surfaces.
3218501|Two new Cycas species from Thailand are here described. C. petraea and C. elephantipes. A noteworthy extension of the range of C. macrocarpa into southeastern Thailand is recorded. New taxa are illustrated, distributions of the new taxa are mapped, and a key to the species of Cycas in Thailand is provided.
2806662|Two hundred and eight taxa of bryophytes, including two hundred and seven species, are reported from extreme northern Yukon. Five hepatic and eighteen moss taxa represent new records for the Yukon, which are Anastrophyllum hellerianum (Nees) Schust., Scapania degenii Schiffn. in K. Mull., Riccardia palmata (Hedw.) Carruth., Mannia sibirica (K. Mull.) Frye & Clark, Sauteria alpina (Nees) Nees, Sphagnum orientale Savich, Dicranum spadiceum Zett., Anoectangium aestivum (Hedw.) Mitt., Barbula coreensis (Card.) Saito, B. platyneura C. Mll. & Kindb., Pottia obtusifolia C. Mull, Splachnum vasculosum Hedw., Bryum acutiforme Limpr. ex Hag., B. bimum (Brid.) Turn., B. intermedium (Brid.) Bland., B. neodamense Itzigs., Cinclidium latifolium Lindb., Timmia comata Lindb. & Arn., Orthothecium acuminatum Bryhn, Cratoneuron arcticum Steere, Drepanocladus brevifolius (Lindb.) Warnst., D. intermedius (Lindb.) Warnst., and D. lycopodioides (Brid.) Warnst. Many of the other collections represent significant extensions of ranges to the arctic sector of the Yukon Territory.
2806298|Four new species of Pectis are described: P. ericifolia from Barbuda, P. luckoviae from west-central Mexico, P. arida from Ecuador and Peru, and P. cajamarcana from Peru. Chromosome counts for P. ericifolia (n = 48) and P. luckoviae (n = 12) are presented. Relationships of the newly described taxa are discussed.
2805832|A new genus of small-flowered Loranthaceae, Maracanthus, is described from northernmost Colombia and adjacent Venezuela. Maracanthus has indeterminate, spicate inflorescences with decussate, sessile flowers, each bracteolate. It is most closely related to Oryctanthus but differs in being functionally dioecious, in having smooth pollen grains, and in lacking the stellate fiber bundles characteristic of Oryctanthus leaves. There are two speices, M. chlamydatus (Rizzini) Kuijt (the type species), and M. pedunculatus Kuijt, a new species.
2807604|The neotropical subtribe Cuspariinae (Rutaceae) comprises as many as 26 genera and over 125 species. Pollen grains from 111 collections representing 71 species and 24 genera were examined by LM, SEM, and TEM. The pollen morphology of this subtribe is very diverse. Grains are mostly 3-6-aperturate and colporate, rarely porate (Spiranthera) or pantocolporate (Almeidea). Exine sculpturing is most commonly reticulate, sometimes perforate, foveolate-perforate, foveolate, foveolate-reticulate, reticulate, striate-reticulate, echinate, clavate, or baculate. The exine structure is columellate and tectate-perforate, ciolumellate and semitectate, or intectate and is stratified into ektexine and endexine. The exine of Leptothyrsa is distinctive in that the ektexine of the mesocolpium is longitudinally deeply ridged. The pollen of Hortia, characterized by a psilate exine with rare perforations, a very thick foot-layer, and reduced columellae, is unlike that of any member of the Cuspariinae and offers no support for the transfer of this genus from the Toddalioideae. The pollen data correlate with macromorphological characters and are taxonomically useful.
2805853|The nomenclatural and taxonomic history of the genus Perama Aubl. (Rubiaceae) is discussed. The major trends of evolution within the genus are characterized, and the sections of the genus are delimited. A new section, Diperama Kirkb. & Steyerm., is described. The distribution of the genus is updated, and centers of species concentration are indicated. A complete synonymy is given for the genus, and the type species cited. An artificial key to the species is given; a new combination, P. parviflora (Standl.) Kirkb. & Steyerm., is made; and three new species are described, P. harleyi Kirkb. & Steyerm., P. irwiniana Kirkb. & Steyerm., and P. sparsiflora Standl. ex Steyerm. & Kirkb.
2806182|American plants of Striga asiatica (witchweed), a serious pathogen of corn and other grains that was accidentally introduced to the Carolinas in the 1950's, exhibit a form of autogamy in which fertilization occurs before the corolla opens. Pollen is shed on the stigma while the flowers are still in bud. Pollen grains germinate immediately and by the time the corolla is open fertilization has occurred. Examination of a native population of the same species in Nigeria revealed no autogamy.
4099037|Erigeron parryi was described in 1890 from a single collection from southwest Montana. No additional collections were made during the following 90 years. Recent floristic treatments have synonomized E. parryi under E. ochroleucus. I used principal components and discriminant analyses of morphological characters to examine the relationship of E. parryi to its presumed closest relatives, E. ochroleucus, E. radicatus, and E. scribneri, in light of several populations discovered in the past 20 years. Erigeron parryi should be considered a distinct species. It can be readily distinguished from closely related species based on indument and caudex morphology. It is allopatric with E. ochroleucus and E. scribneri and ecologically separated from E. radicatus. Erigeron scribneri is intermediate between E. ochroleucus and E. radicatus and is probably best treated as a variety of one or the other of these species.
41406769|We describe and illustrate two new species of Boopis from Argentina: Boopis pterocalyx (Mendoza province) and Boopis necronensis (Catamarca and La Rioja provinces). Both species are easily distinguished from the remaining species of Boopis (sensu lato, including Nastanthus) by the foliose, imbricate sepals, which become foliose and orbicular in the fruit of B. pterocalyx, or navicular, obtuse-mucronate and corky in the fruit of B. necronensis. A geographical distribution map, complete descriptions, and illustrations are also included.
2805446|Filipendula spp. are attacked by rust fungi on the genus Triphragmium. Several related genera (tribe Phragmidieae) occur wholly or partly on Rosaceae, and all are restricted to genera in Rosoideae. It appears, by inference, that Filipendula also belongs this subfamily. The only recorded rusts of Spiraeoideae are distantly related, and appear, from morphology and total host relationship, to be of much earlier origin.
2805080|Cienfuegosia hearnii (from Aden, Arabian peninsula), C. somaliana (from Somalia and Ethiopia), C. ulmifolia (from Argentina and Paraguay), and C. intermedia (from Mexico) are described as new.
2806397|Meiotic chromosome numbers and observations were made in eleven species belonging to nine different genera of Bambusoideae. The numbers include counts in eight species that have never been investigated cytologically: Arundinaria aff. amabilis (n = 24), Chusquea bambusoides (n = ca.20), Cryptochloa dressleri (n = 11), Olyra ciliatifolia (n = 11), Sucrea monophylla (n = 11), Raddia brasiliensis (n = 11), Strephium distichophyllum (n = 11), and Pariana aurita (n = 22). The genera Strephium and Sucrea have not been studied previously with respect to their chromosomes. The significance of these results are discussed in relation to the over 140 published counts in the subfamily, which indicates a preponderance of polyploidy in the woody members, or bamboos, but not in their herbaceous allies. Aneuploidy is rare in the former but frequent in the latter. It is postulated that the herbaceous bambusoids, which flower ever year and produce recombinants regularly and in short-time cycles, could have tolerated successive reductions of the linkage groups and their genetic flexibility. These changes would not have been favored in the bamboos, which have more genetic constancy due to the long lapse (often 20-120 years) between flowering generations.
4099005|Dacryodes edilsonii Daly (Burseraceae) is one of at least 14 still undescribed neotropical species in the genus; it is also one of a large number of new species emerging from intensified botanical exploration of the Brazilian state of Acre in southwestern Amazonia. The new species is easily distinguished from most other Neotropical species of the genus by its usually densely long-pubescent petiole, rachis, petiolules, and abaxial midvein.
3218420|The correct name for Psychotria carapichea is Carapichea guianensis. Also, the authority of Psychotria carapichea was previously incorrectly cited, because of an oversight of the illegitimacy of Tapogomea carapichea Poir. The complex taxonomic history of this species is analyzed, and the authority of the binomial is correctly cited. In addition, P. ligularis, which was treated as closely related to C. guianensis in previous publications, is transferred to Carapichea and it is now known as Carapichea ligularis.
2806676|A monotypic new genus, Harleyodendron, is described from the relict coastal rainforest of eastern Brazil. Gross morphology, wood and leaf anatomy, and pollen morphology are considered.
2806607|Bohumil Francis Kukachka is remembered for his anatomical studies of the Sapotaceae. He received his Ph. D. from the University of Minnesota in 1942 in wood technology, and in 1945 his 37-year career began at the U.S. Forest Products Laboratory in Madison, Wisconsin. Seventy-four of his publications from 1944 to 1982 are listed.
2805573|A cytogeographic study was made of the tetraploid and hexaploid forms of Achillea millefolium L. in western Oregon in order to clarify their distributions, to determine whether pentaploid hybrids are present at zones of contact between the two, and to correlate environmental conditions with the presence of the tetraploid in the coastal areas of Coos and Curry Counties, Oregon. The distributional pattern of the two chromosome forms was found to be more complex than previously reported, involving overlapping of ranges, the occurrence of mixed populations, and the presence of disjunct populations of one form in areas occupied by the other. A naturally occurring pentaploid hybrid with meiotic pairing of 18 II's and 9 I's was found, which could not be distinguished morphologically from the presumed parents. The coastal tetraploid form in southwestern Oregon is limited to the Siskiyou Mountains. Plants of this area, especially those at its geographical margins, were observed to be producing a large number of viable, unreduced pollen grains. It is suggested that the North American hexaploid form originated by autopolyploidy from earlier existing tetraploids.
2666540|Metapanax was previously proposed informally without Latin description as a new genus of the Araliaceae, for two species: M. davidii and M. delavayi. Current morphological and molecular studies support the recognition of Metapanax. The genus is now formally described and a synopsis is provided. Morphological distinctions between Metapanax and related genera are discussed.
2806970|Hechtia lyman-smithii and H. fragilis from Mexico are described as new, illustrated, and discussed, and the taxonomic status of H. texensis (syn. H. scariosa) is evaluated.
2805475|Panicum amarum and P. amarulum exhibit north-south clinal variation and are virtually indistinguishable in the southern part of their range. Cytological evidence indicates that P. amarum (2n=54) is probably an autohexaploid derivative of P. amarulum (2n=36). The minor morphological differences, the apparent close genetic relationship, and the close ecological and chemical affinities between these two taxa indicate that P. amarum and P. amarulum should have varietal than specific rank.
2806259|Two new species of Senecio, S. sundbergii and S. neogibsonii, belonging to the section Palmatinervii are described, illustrated, and compared to their nearest relatives, S. aschenbornianus and S. lanicaulis.
3218342|Two new species of Pourouma are described, illustrated, and keyed out; P. cordata from Peru and Brazil, and P. montana from Peru.
2805919|The vegetative and floral differences between two frequently confused species are discussed in terms of function. Platanthera psycodes is a widespread species with flowers adapted to visits by short-tongued lepidoptera, especially skippers of the genus Polites; the pollinaria are attached to the base of the proboscis. Platanthera grandiflora is a geographically more limited species with flowers adapted to visits by longer-tongued lepidoptera; the pollinaria are probably attached to compound eyes. The species overlap geogrpahically and phenologically. Chromosome numbers are 2n = 42 in each species. Cultivated plants of each are partially self-incompatible but produce apparently normal embryos when intercrossed. Mechanical, seasonal, ethological, and distributional differences isolate the species. Habenaria and Platanthera are considered distinct but closely related genera. Platanthera psycodes is based upon a type at L, P. grandiflora on a type at AMES. Plantanthera grandigflora and P. psycodes have affinities with three other eastern North American species characterized by tripartite, fringed, or erose labella. Species pairs within this group, based on column structure, include grandiflora-peramoena and psycodes-lacera. The column of P. leucophaea is morphologically intermediate in form.
2806026|William Mitten (1819-1906) described 373 species of Hepaticae in 25 publications between 1851 and 1889. Most of Mitten's types are at NY, but original material of some species may be found at BM, FH, and G. This paper provides an index to the species and genera described by Mitten and a bibliography of papers in which his new hepatics were described. The index to species includes information on lectorypification, location of original or type material, and synonymy.
2805708|Study of herbarium specimens, crossing behavior, chromosome conjugation, and live populations has shown that the endemic North American species of Hibiscus sect. Trionum comprise two distinct genetic groups. Hibiscus militaris Cav. and H. coccineus Walt. crossed readily and yielded fertile $f_1$'s. Also, H. icanus Wendl., H. moscheutos L., and H. lasiocarpos Cav. crossed freely intr se, and the hybrids were all vigorous and fertile. However, crosses of these three forms with either H. militaris or H. coccineus gave lethal hybrids. Preliminary evidence suggests that H. palustris L. is similar to H. moscheutos, H. incanus, and H. lasiocarpos in crossing behavior. These four forms were found to occur in distinct geographical areas. They may be considered as ecotypes of a single ecospecies. H. grandiflorus Michx. is morphologically related to this alliance, but yielded a viable fertile hybrid when crossed with H. coccineus. Further study of the affinities of H. grandiflorus and H. palustris is in progress.
4099007|One new Bolivian species (Borreria pazensis) and three new varieties (Borreria densiflora var. minima, Richardia. scabra var. chacoensis and Staelia virgata var. killeenii) are described and illustrated. The genus Diodella, with three species (D. apiculata comb, nov., D. radula comb, nov., and D. teres), is reported for the first time. Borreria limae, B. wunschmannii, B. scabiosoides var. scabiosoides, and B. scabiosoides var. anderssonii are also reported as new to Bolivia.
40792892|Grias theobromicarpa, a new species from northwestern Ecuador is described. This species is found in wet forests at ca. 1500 m elevation, and is distinguished by its erect petals that conceal the androecium, filaments fused to form a very distinct staminal tube, anthers that are oblong with cucullate connectives enclosing most of the thecae, and especially by its fruits, which are prominently ridged when fresh. The species is illustrated and its relationship with its closest relative, G. purpuripetala, from southwestern Colombia, is discussed. Describimos Grias theobromicarpa, una nueva especie de arbolillo de los bosques muy hmedos del noroccidente de Ecuador, a ca. 1500 msnm. Esta nueva especie se caracteriza por presentar flores con ptalos erectos que ocultan al androceo, los filamentos estn lateralmente fusionados formando un tubo estaminal, las anteras son oblongas, con conectivos cuculados que cubren la mayor parte de las tecas, y especialmente los frutos que son prominentemente acostillados en Yivo. La nueva especie es ilustrada y se discute su relacin con la especie morfolgicamente ms cercana, G. purpuripetala del noroccidente de Colombia.
2807152|An analysis of the flowering plant flora of a lowland moist forest in central French Guiana reveals 298 species with adaptations for wind dispersal. This represents 16.2% of the flowering plant flora and 9.8% of the class Magnoliopsida (dicotyledons). The most diverse wind-dispersed families are the Orchidaceae in the Liliopsida (monocotyledons) with 135 species and the Bignoniaceae in the Magnoliopsida with 37 species. The wind-dispersed species of central French Guiana have evolved either small, dust-like seeds, fruits or seeds with various kinds or wings, fruits or seeds with tufts of hairs, or expanded wing-or parachute like persistent calyces. Most wind-dispersed species, among the liliopsids, are epiphytes and, among the magnoliopsids, trees or lianas. In central French Guiana, collections of these species with mature diaspores have been gathered most often in October and March, the months with peak wind velocities. In contrast, collections from June and July, when wind velocities are at a minimum, are rare.
2806859|The pollination systems of two closely related genera, Cyphomandra and Solanum, differ in rewards offered and pollinator activity. I suggest that the anther differences which define these two genera have evolved in response of the different pollination systems. Male euglossine bees of the genus Eufrisea were observed to pollinate the flowers of Cyphomandra endopogon var. endopogon while gathering aromatic compounds from the anther connectives. Samples of the compound collected from the flowers and the bees were tentatively identified as ocimene, a terpene.
2806557|A new annual species of Madia sect. Anisocarpus, Madia doris-nilesiae, from the serpentine soils of western Trinity County, California is described, illustrated, and compared to the other annual members of the section. On the basis of floral and fruit morphologies the annual members of the section can be divided into two geographical units. Madia dorisnilesiae is unique in that it has a combination of these characters.
2806763|A new species of Dioon (Dioon holmgrenii), found on the Pacific slope of southern Oaxaca, is characterized by leaflets which are spinulose especially on the upper margin, elongate and narrow. Distribution and ecology of Oaxacan Dioon species are reported.
2805525|Schismatoglottis has been known previously in the Western Hemisphere from two species of sect. Philonotion that occur in northeastern South America. A third species, S. bolivarana, is described and illustrated, from materials collected in the Guayana Highland of Venezuela; it is most closely related to S. americana of Surinam. The possible existence of infraspecific taxa of S. bolivarana is suggested by the differences of ecology and slight morphological variance of the plants at the two widely separated localities where it has been collected. A key to the known American species is presented.
2805870|Phacelia beatleyae is described from Nye County, Nevada. It is believed to be most closely related to P. parishii A. Gray.
2807568|Sequence data for the rbcL locus were obtained fot two of the three species of the Mexican endemic Recchia. Parsimony analyses of the molecular data base indicate that Surianaceae sensu Cronquist are paraphyletic; inclusion of Recchia rendered the family monophyletic. This placement is corroborated by a suite of morphological characters: an apocarpous (or monocarpic) gynoecium of bi-ovulate carpels with basal-marginal placentation and a ventrobasal style, and the occurrence in all but Guilfoylia of a characteristic 3-layered endocarp. The molecular data support a closer relationship between Recchia and the Australian Cadellia than between the latter and any of the other Australian genera. The molecular data suggest that the affinities of Surianaceae lie in a clade comprising at least Polygalaceae, Fabaceae, and Quillaja.
2805963|Lupinus constancei and Lathyrus biflorus from southeastern Humboldt County serpentine are described, illustrated and compared to allied taxa.
2807700|Abelia occidentalis, related to A. coriacea Hemsley and distinguished by its larger flowers, curved trichomes, and elliptic thin leaves, is described and illustrated.
40980901|Se describe el complejo de Lonchocarpus cruentus, dentro de la sect.Lonchocarpus. Dicho complejo se caracteriza por la presencia del margen vexilar aquillado en la legumbre. Se describen e ilustran a seis especies, de las cuales cinco son nuevas para la ciencia: Lonchocarpus aequatorialis, L. alternifoliolatus, L. guianensis, L. septentrionalis y L. trinitensis. En este complejo se presenta una marcada alternancia en el tamao de las flores en su distribucin de norte a sur. The Lonchocarpus cruentus complex, within sect. Lonchocarpus, is described.This complex is characterized by the presence of a keeled vexillary margin on the pod. Five of the six species described and illustrated are new to science: Lonchocarpus aequatorialis, L. alternifoliolatus, L. guianensis, L. septentrionalis and L. trinitensis. A pronounced flower size difference in the north-south distribution of this complex is shown.
2806583|Myrceugenia is a mainly temperate South American genus with two species on the Juan Fernndez Islands, 12 in central and southern Chile and adjacent Argentina, and 25 in the highlands of southeastern Brazil and adjacent regions. The continental populations are separated by about 1000 km. Numerical cladistic procedures based on the criteria of parsimony, compatible characters and a combination of compatible characters and character correlation are used to deduce hypothetical phylogenetic undirected trees. These indicate that 3-8 groups of species bridge the continent of South America. An explanation of how the distribution of the genus could have come about is given based on: 1) the above mentioned numerical analyses, 2) the ecology of the species, 3) the distribution of other plant genera, and 4) theories of the geologic and climatic history of southern South America. Myrceugenia is hypothesized to have grown continuously across South America during the early Tertiary and to have become divided into eastern and western populations probably during the Miocene.
2805934|Nineteen species of Parmelia sect. Hypotrachyna that contain either barbatic acid or evernic acid and other related compounds fall into four major chemical types based upon biogenetic consideration of their secondary products. The major chemistries show clear correlations with geography, but groups based upon morphological characters do not. The origin of the present-day species can be explained by ancient hybridizations of chemically different types and sub-sequent parallel morphological evolution.
2806677|Two new genera of Chrysobalanaceae are described. Hunga distributed in New Caledonia, the Loyalty Islands and Papua and New Guinea, contains eight species, three new, and five formerly placed in the genera Angelesia, Licania and Parinari. Kostermanthus is described to accommodate two species with united filaments formerly placed in Parinari and Acioa. Both new genera are quite as distinct as others of the family and have been overlooked by undue emphasis placed on the single character of a bilocular ovary. Licania palawanensis Prance is also described; it is the second species of its genus from Malesia.
30218815|Castilleja exigua is described from an ample collection obtained in the Param6 de Guirigay, Monumento Natural Teta de Niquitao, Trujillo, Venezuela. The new species is a member of subg. and sect. Castilleja. This apparently very rare species is known at present from a single, geographically restricted population and should be considered globally endangered.
2807739|A revision of Brazilian Augusta and general comments on the systematics of this genus are presented. The complex taxonomic history of this taxon has caused confusion over its correct nomenclature. The peculiar geographic distribution of Augusta has stimulated field observations and analysis of the ecology of the Brazilian ecosystems where this taxon occurs, which are here presented. The five Brazilian species of Augusta described by Pohl are here treated as ecotypes of A. longifolia. The species has two distinct varieties: var. longifolia, widespread throughout the Brazilian cerrado, and var. parvifolia, endemic to the Atlantic forest near Rio de Janeiro. Typification, list of representative specimens, and distribution map of A. longifolia are also included.
2806369|In his monograph on anisacanthus, Hagen (1941) considered Drejera puberula Torr. (1859) a nomen confusum as it was based on material of three distinct species, while the later A. insignis A. Gray (1886), which we show also consisted of three distinct species, was considered valid. Through typification, we establish from the older name A. puberulus for a lance-ovate, puberulent-leaved, spring-blooming, pink-flowered species and elevate A. insignis var. linearis Hagen to A. linearis for the linear-, glabrous-leaved, summer-blooming, orange-red-flowered species. Descriptions and a map of these two species are presented.
2806266|Eight new species are described from Panama, Besleria calycina, B. rara, Cremosperma maculatum, Drymonia folsomii, Moussonia ampla, Oerstedina suffrutescens, Paradrymonia ommata, and P. pedunculata. One of the new species is illustrated.
2805745|A new species, Eupatorium correlliorum, is described from Grand Bahama Island, Bahamas, where it is apparently endemic.
2666493|Sinningia nordestina is described and illustrated. Morphological and molecular characters are discussed. It is a new species endemic to northeastern Brazil and is distinguished from other members of the genus by its vestigial tubers, ascending pedicels with pendent flowers, small corollas, and deviating flowering period.
2807119|Three species of Arracacia-A. hintonii, A. colombiana, and A. tillettii-from Mexico, Colombia, and Venezuela, respectively, are described as new, and Coulterophytum brevipes Coulter & Rose is transferred to Arracacia as A. quadrifida, nom. nov. and comb. nov.
2806456|Two new species, Siphocampylus tillettii (Campanulaceae: Lobelioideae) and Duidaea marahuacensis (Asteraceae), are described from the summit of Cerro Marahuaca, Venezuela. These constitute the first records of any species known from the summit of this sandstone tepui.
2806405|Solanum citrinum from northeastern Mexico is described, figured and discussed.
2806432|One new taxon from Idaho, Saxifraga bryophora A. Gray var. tobiasiae, and two from Oregon, Cymopterus acaulis (Pursh) Raf. var. greeleyorum and Phacelia lutea (Hook. & Arn.) J. T. Howell var. mackenzieorum are described and compared with their nearest relatives.
2805808|Scirpus heterophyllus, known only from Madagascar, is described and compared with S. erectus. The unusual leaf dimorphism is pointed out, and the presence of chlorenchyma above and below air cavities in leaf bladed and involucral bracts is regarded as a useful taxonomic character.
2807592|Five new species of Quararibea from Costa Rica and Panama are described and illustrated, with notes on their ecology and relationships. Quararibea gomeziana, Q. pendula, and Q. santaritensis are from the Caribbean lowlands of the Provinces of Limn, Costa Rica, and of Bocas del Toro and Colon, Panama. Quararibea aurantiocalyx and Q. costaricensis are from montane habitats of Panama and Costa Rica. The exceptionally long pedicels of Q. pendula far exceed those of other known members of Quararibea and may prove to be the most striking example of adaptation to bat pollination and fruit dispersal in the genus. Quararibea costaricensis, a relatively common species, has long been erroneously identified as Q. platyphylla, a much rarer inhabitant of the same region.
2805918|Besleria formicaria and B. subulata, both with ants inhabiting the midrib region, are described as new and illustrated.
2807714|Taxonomic descriptions, distribution maps, drawings, and keys to identify the 15 taxa of the Muhlenbergia montana complex are provided.
2806025|The taxonomic status of the Asiatic genus Daiswa Raf. is discussed. A key, descriptions, complete synonymy, and specimen citations are provided for 15 species of Daiswa. Three new species and one new subspecies are described.
2807861|Two new combinations, Rhynchospora imeriensis (Kkenthal) W. Thomas and R. planifolia (T. Koyama) W. Thomas, and a new name, R. capillifolia W. Thomas, are provided for capitate species of Rhynchospora occurring in Venezuela. A new section of capitate species with white spikelets, sect. Rigidifolia W. Thomas, is described, and its six included species are listed, discussed, and keyed. Lectotypes are designated for R. duckei R. Gross and R. longibracteata Boeckeler. Two species are illustrated.
2807478|Peperomia delascioi Steyermark is described from the summit of Camarcai-barai-tepui, a sandstone table mountain of the Venezuelan Guayana Highland. It is related to P. emarginella and P. rotundifolia.
30218786|Acalypha gentlei is described, illustrated and mapped. The species is endemic to Belize and adjacent areas of Mexico and Guatemala and restricted to semideciduous moist forests on limestone. The species is referred to Acalypha subgenus Linostachys. /// Se describe, ilustra y grafica la distribucin de Acalypha gentlei. Esta especie nueva es endmica a Belice y reas adyacentes de Mxico y Guatemala, y est restringida a bosques hmedos semi-deciduos sobre caliza. La especie es referida a Acalypha subgnero Linostachys.
40648094|Durante el estudio de la familia Lamiaceae en el Guerrero, Mxico, se encontraron algunos ejemplares de Lepechinia seccin Glomeratae, cercanamente relacionados con L. glomerata, pero que difieren por presentar flores ms grandes, anaranjadas en la base y rojas en el pice, corola tubular, el tubo in vaginado en la base y brcteas ampliamente ovadas, con el pice acuminado. Se presenta una descripcin de la nueva especie, Lepechinia flammea, as como ilustraciones y una clave para separar ambas especies. During the study of the Lamiaceae from Guerrero, Mexico, specimens of Lepechinia sect. Glomeratae were found, similar to L. glomerata, but different in having larger flowers that are orange at the base and red at the apex, with a tubular corolla that is invaginated at the base, and widely ovate bracts that are acuminate at the apex. The new species, Lepechinia flammea, is described and illustrated. A key to distinguish the species is included.
3218505| New combinations and lectotypification are made of the South American species formerly of Myrica in the genus Morella. A key and a list of synonyms are presented. /// [Spanish] Se presentan las nuevas combinaciones y las lectotipificaciones necesarias para transferir a Morella las especies suramericanas anteriormente asignadas a Myrica. Adems se incluyen una clave y una lista de sinnimos. 
2806274|An in-depth study of the insects associated with the transfer of pollen in the American lotus was undertaken in a selected population on the Upper Mississippi River near La Crosse, Wisconsin. The study showed that members of the Coleoptera (Coleomegilla fascilabris Malsant, Diabrotica unidecimpunctata howardi Barber, D. virgifere Lec.), Diptera (Eristalis tenax (L.), Parhelophilus laetus (Loew)) and Hymenoptera (Agapostemon radiatus (say), Apis mellifera L., Dialictus sp., Lasioglossum zonulum (Smith)) were the principal visitors and most obvious vectors in pollination. Although there are features of the flowers of the lotus that indicate cantharophily, such as the diurnal movements of the tepals and the food bodies of the anthers, in the area of study no special beetle-pollination system, as reported for such genera as Magnolia and Nuphar, appears to occur.
2805761|Studies of Nymphoides (Menyanthaceae) in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies indicate that three species are present in this region, all of which are members of the Nymphoides indica complex. White-flowered plants of Meso-America, the Antilles, and South America traditionally have been referred to N. humboldtiana but are identical to the otherwise Old World N. indica and must be called by the latter name. The Mexican and Guatemalan Nymphoides fallax, described in this paper, differs from N. indica in having winged yellow petals with a stipitate basal tuft of hairs, consistently yellow anthers, larger seeds, and higher altitudinal occurrence. Yellow-flowered plants of the Bahamas and Cuba are considered to represent a third species, N. grayana, which resembles plants of southern Brazil and southern Africa in flower color and morphology. However, because of the geographic distribution and unique ultraviolet-light emittance characters of N. grayana and the still uncertain relationships of the Brazilian and African populations this third taxon is provisionally retained at the specific level pending further study of those populations.
2806108|Esterhazya petiolata is a distinctive species with ovate, petiolate leaves, spreading branches, and broadly tubular-campanulate flowers. It is known from the Serra Dourada of Gois. Esterhazya eitenorum has narrow, lanceolate leaves, acute calyx lobes, and purple-pink flowers and is known from the planalto of Mt. Itatiaia.
2806431|This distinctive subgenus, limited to calcareous rocks of the Caribbean basin, is discussed in terms of its taxonomy and relationships. Two new species, A. alternifolia and A. pumilio are described, and two new combinations, A. mexicana var. makrinii and A. coriacea f. nipeensis are made. Drawings of all taxa are provided.
2807855|Burmeistera, Centropogon, and Siphocampylus together comprise more than 500 species endemic to the Neotropics. Current knowledge of these genera is unsatisfactory, with much diversity yet to be described. Over the past seven years, one out of every 28 specimens received for identification has represented a new species, many characterized by unique or unusual character states. Siphocampylus smilax (Bolivia) is unique in the genus in its parallelodromous leaf venation and extra-floral nectaries. Centropogon dianae (Peru) cannot be accommodated in any recognized infrageneric taxon, and a nwe section, Centropogon sect. Niveopsis, is proposed for it. The flowers of C. steinii (Ecuador) are the smallest known in the genus, while C. connatilobatus (Venezuela) is the first species to combine arbusculiform pubescence and connate calyx lobes. Burmeistera venezuelensis is only the second species of the genus known to occur in Venezuela and the first to be endemic; similarly, Centropogon wilburii is only the third species of Centropogon known from Mexico and the first to be endemic to that country. Additional novelties are also described.
2806550|Chromosome numbers for Aster brachyactis. A. frondosus, and A. laurentianus were determined to be 2n = 14. The latter two are the first documented records for these taxa. The basic chromosome number for section Conyzopsis is confirmed as x = 7.
2805586|Two species are recognized within the genus, H. monogyra Torr. & Gray ex Gray and H. salsola Torr. & Gray ex Gray. Of these, the fall-flowering H. monogyra is monomorphic and unambiguous. The spring-flowering H. salsola, however, is polymorphic and contains elements that have often been segregated as distinct species. Examination of character intergradation and interpretation of morphological variation against the evolution and distributional backgrounds indicate that the latter complex is best treated within three varietal taxa: H. salsola var. fasciculata, with wings of the fruiting involucres appressed and spirally arranged; H. salsola var. salsola, with wings emergent and spirally arranged; and H. salsola var pentalepis, with wings strongly emergent and whorled.
2666609|A taxonomic review of the Vaccinieae (Ericaceae) from the region known as Murri (Antioquia Department, Colombia) is presented. This area has the highest generic and specific diversity of Vaccinieae known in the Neotropics, with 10 genera and 45 species. Cavendishia antioquiensis, C. viridiflora, Psammisia citrina, and P. mediobullata are newly described and illustrated. Cavendishia sessiliflora and Satyria latifolia are redescribed from complete collections. Pollination by hummingbirds in neotropical Vaccinieae is discussed and nectar content is reported for the first time for 26 species.
2807770|A morphological analysis of Physalis and several closely related genera, with emphasis on a group of species known as "atypical Physalis," showed that two of the atypical species are better treated as a distinct genus. Tzeltalia is described and two new combinations are made: T. amphitricha and T. calidaria. Restricted to the highlands of Chiapas, Mexico, and adjacent Guatemala, tzeltalia is distinguished from Physalis by a combination of characters including shrubby habit; fasciculate flowers; lobed corolla; scabrate pollen; and non-ivaginated, partially open, coriaceous, and reticulate-veined fruiting calyx.
2805705|Two North American species of Clematis, sect. Atragene (L.) Dc., are recognized. C. occidentalis (Hornem.) Dc. is divided into three varieties, native respectively to eastern North America, the Rocky Mountains, and the Cascade Mountains of Washington. C. columbiana (Nutt.) Torr. & Gray is divided into two extensively intergrading varieties, one prevailing in the southern Rocky Mountains, the other in the northern foothills and in outlying mountain rangers. After a study of the type specimen of C. columbiana, it was concluded that this name should be applied to the species hitherto commonly known as C. pseudoalpina (O. Kuntze) A. Nels., rather than to the taxon with which it has usually been associated. The two species are evidently closely related and appear occasionally to have hybridized in nature.
4099034| A new species of Tzeltalia (Solanaceae) from Chiapas, Mexico is described and illustrated: Tzeltalia esenbeckii. A key and a table, distinguishing the members of the genus, are included. /// Se describe e ilustra Tzeltalia esenbeckii (Solanaceae), una nueva especie endmica a los Altos de Chiapas, Mxico. Se incluyen una clave y un cuadro comparativo para distinguir las especies del gnero. 
2805828|Thirteen species of blue-eyed grasses had been described for the Pacific Northwest prior to this study. Contemporary taxonimic treatments vary; some authors recognize several of the taxa as valid species, others recognize only one highly variable, widely distributed species. Work has been directed to achieve an understanding of the biological integrity of all previously described species within the northwest. Living plants from natural populations were utilized in controlled artificial hybridization experiments, analysis of breeding systems, and cytological investigations. Hybrids of intra- and interspecific crosses were examined for pollen fertility, and investigated cytologically for meiotic behavior. Eight genetically compatible groups are indicated from these experiments. Additional information gained from cytological analysis, breeding systems, ecology, distribution, and morphological studies substantiates the recognition of each genetically compatible group at the specific level, including the new species, S. hitchcockii, from southern Oregon. The following taxa are recognized for the Pacific Northwest: tetraploids (n=16) S. bellum S. Wats., S. halophilum Greene, S. septentrionale E. P. Bicknell; octoploids (n=32) S. idahoense E. P. Bicknell (including the vars. segetum, macounii, and occiddentale), and S. hitchcockii D. Henderson; duodecaploids (n=48) S. idahoense E. P. Bicknell var. idahoense, S. littorale Greene, S. montanum Greene, and S. sarmentosum Suksd. ex Greene.
2807522|Types are indicated for 28 new names inadvertently published in Rydberg's Flora of Colorado. Included are a discussion as to the validity of these new names and an explanation of the causes of this oversight. A lectotype of Lupinus decumbens var. argentatus is herein designated by Rupert C. Barneby.
2806699|A new species, Erigeron astranthioides, apparently endemic to the Sierra Madre of central Durango, is described and illustrated. It is contrasted with E. forreri (Greene) Greene and Astranthium, both of which are similar, though apparently through convergence. The new species is part of a lineage that includes six other primarily epappose Erigeron species mostly from the western Sierra Madre; within this group its closest relative appears to be E. mimus (S. F. Blake) Nesom, with which it is compared.
2666575|A study of Brazilian species of Grammitidaceae revealed four undescribed species and three new combinations that need to be made. The new species appear to be narrow endemics, one in the state of Espirito Santo (Brazil), two in the mountains on the Brazil-Venezuelan border, and one in Ecuador. Descriptions and illustrations are provided, as well as distribution maps and comments on the closest related species.
2806640|The tropical American region of the Pacific Basin is undoubtedly the Basin's most poorly known region floristically. It is probably also the richest in number of species. I present here a brief history of floristic work in the area, a review of the region's ecological geography and a summation of the interaction of history and ecology which has led to the present day situation. The current status of floristics in the region is assessed from this perspectives and some proposed directions of future floristic research are suggested.
4098994| Two new species of Tococa with large bracts and ant domatia are described. Tococa leticiana has caducous acuminate floral bracts that enclose the young inflorescence and is known only from Leticia, Colombia. Tococa costoides has persistent broadly ovate floral bracts and is known from Amazonas State in Brazil. /// Se describen dos especies de Tococa con brcteas de gran tamao y mirmecodomacios. Tococa leticiana tiene brcteas acuminadas y caducas, y se conoce solo de Leticia, Colombia. Tococa costoides posee brcteas florales anchamente ovadas y persistentes, y se conoce del estado Amazonas en Brasil. 
2806933|Cladonia petrophila, an overlooked, usually sterile species, morphologically similar to C. apodacarpa adn C. caespiticia, is described as new on the basis of its distinctive chemistry, perlatolic and fumarprotocetraric acids, and habitat preference for moist non-calcareous rock.
2807850|Three new species are proposed in the genera Gongora, Maxillaria, and Stenia. The new species are illustrated.
30219373|Three new endemic species are described and illustrated from the floristically diverse western mountain ranges of Colombia. Disterigma appendiculatum, D. hiatum, and D. verruculatum have interesting floral characters that are unique in the genus and in the Vaccinieae. These new morphological characters and the terminology adopted for bracteoles and staminal appendages are briefly discussed.
2666564|Four species of the moss genus Racomitrium Brid. are reported from Brazil: R. subsecundum (Harv.) Wils., R. didymum (Mont.) Lorentz, R. crispipilum (Taylor) A. Jaeger, and R. visnadiae W. R. Buck. Racomitrium subsecundum is reported for the first time from South America in Brazil and Colombia. The species is fully described and illustrated. Racomitrium didymum is recorded for the first time from Brazil; the specimens previously assigned to R. crispulum (Hook.f. & Wils.) Hook.f. & Wils. represent this species. Racomitrium cucullatifolium Hampe and R. crispulum (Hook.f. & Wils.) Hook.f. & Wils. are excluded from the Brazilian bryophyte flora. All Brazilian species of Racomitrium are briefly assessed taxonomically and bryogeographically and illustrated, and a key to their determination is given. A lectotype is selected for Grimmia didyma Mont.
2806452|Fruit characteristics, embryo types, and funicle-aril features are described for the genera of neotropical Lecythidaceae. Their bearing on the taxonomy of the family is discussed and a generic key based on fruit and seed features is provided. The anomalous seed structure of Asteranthos brasiliensis is pointed out. Known fruit and seed adaptations for dispersal are described.
2807818|Petunia interior, a new species from interior Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, is described, and its morphological distinction from related species and features of its habitat are discussed.
4098975|We describe ten new species of Polystichum (Dryopteridaceae, Pteridophyta) from Bolivia, provide brief notes on the other eleven species of the genus in the country, and present a key to all species. New species are: P. albomarginatum, P. amboroense, P. bachii, P. chaparensis, P. congestum, P. giganteum, P. lepidotum, P. paramicola, P. rufum, and P. solomonii.
2806498|A new genus of Convolvulaceae is described to accommodate two species previously included within Jacquemontia. A discussion is given of generic limits in the family, and a taxonomic treatment of the new genus Odonellia is presented.
2805737|This symposium was organized to publicly discuss the controversy over the relationships of the Psilotaceae, centering around Bierhost's thesis that Psilotum and Tmesipteris are filicalean ferns.
30218773|Systematic study of several species complexes in Eleocharis subgen. Limnochloa resulted in the discovery of a new South American species, E. steinbachii. This new species is closely related to E. acutangula, differing in features of the perianth bristles, achene, tubercle, and narrow neotropical distribution. A description and illustration of the new species is provided along with a key to separate it from other triquetrous-culmed species of Eleocharis subgen. Limnochloa with which it has been confused. /// El estudio sistemtico de la variacin a nivel global de dos complejos de especies en Eleocharis subgen. Limnochloa ha llevado al descubrimiento de una nueva especie Sudamericana, E. steinbachii. Esta especie est cercanamente relacionada con E. acutangula, pero difiere en rasgos del aquenio, rostro, cerdas del perianto y en su estrecha distribucin Neotropical. Se presenta una descripcin e ilustracin de la nueva especie, as como una clave para separarla de otras especies de tallo triquetro de Eleocharis subgen. Limnochloa con las cuales se ha confundido.
2806430|The wholly North American section Leiboldia of Vernonia as revised by Jones (1979) included six species. The present treatment recognized only three species in Leiboldia, including one newly described from recent collections. The remainder of what Jones considered Leiboldia has been transferred into a new sect. Lepidonia (Blake) Turner which was first proposed as a monotypic genus. A key to the two sections and 10 species is provided along with an account of their interrelationships. Morphological evidence suggests that sect. Lepidonia is one of the more primitive sections of Vernonia, being as close to certain African sections as they are to the mostly American sect. Vernonia. Consideration is given to the phyletic significance and generic value of receptacular pales in the Vernonieae from which it is concluded that these have persisted in three or more quite unrelated lines of this tribe and undue weight should not be accorded these in generic considerations. Consequently, the paleaceous, monotypic genera Lepidonia and Bolanosa are sunk into synonymy under Vernonia, the former as a distinct section, the latter into the sect. Vernonia.
2805864|Stryphnodendron campestre Forero and S. guianense (Aubl.) Benth. ssp. glandulosum Forero are described and illustrated, and notes on the nomenclature of S. adstringens and on the exclusion of S. colombianum from the genus are included.
4098995|Eight new South American species of Palicourea are described and illustrated: P. crystallina from north-central Peru differs from P. loxensis from Ecuador, also described herein, by its longer calyx limbs, 1.2-2.5 mm long, with the lobes often unequal in length; P. cutucuana from southern Ecuador differs from P. angustifolia in its broader leaves and inflorescences and larger corollas; P. gelsemiiflora of northern Peru is distinguished by its pedicels 11-20 mm long, calyx limbs 7-11 mm long, relatively large yellow corollas with tubes 32-33 mm long, relatively large fruits 12-13 mm long, and pyrenes with an unusual spongy wall; P. gemmiflora of southern Ecuador and northern Peru differs from P. subtomentosa by its longer corollas with horn-like projections on the abaxial surfaces of the lobes; P. lemoniana of southwestern Venezuela differs from P. nitidella by its corolla tubes 17-18 mm long with the lobes pubescent abaxially and from P. grandiflora by its secondary leaf veins only 7-10 pairs and corollas externally with lanose trichomes to 0.5 mm long; P. loxensis of southern Ecuador differs from P. garciae by its densely reticulated secondary and tertiary leaf venation, membranaceous stipules, and sessile rather than pedicellate flowers; P. otongaensis of north-central Ecuador differs from P. holmgrenii by its longer corollas with well developed horn-like appendages borne on the abaxial surfaces of the lobes; and P. smithiana of central Peru differs from P. lobbii by its laminar stipules with obtuse to rounded lobes only 0.5-1 mm long, yellow corollas, and pyrenes that are ridged dorsally.
3218409|Recent field work in Bolivia has resulted in the recognition of new species of Dyschoriste (Acanthaceae). These novelties are introduced here for the convenience of other taxonomists prior to the publication of a treatment of the Acanthaceae of Bolivia. Three new Bolivian and one new Argentinean species of Dyschoriste, D. axillaris, D. boliviana, D. ceciliae, and D. prostrata are described, illustrated, and compared to their closest relatives.
3218518|Chiliotrichiopsis peruviana Nesom, H. Rob. & Granda, a new species from Dept. Ayacucho in southwestern Peru, is described and illustrated. It is the only rayless species of the genus, now expanded to four species, and the only one that occurs outside of Argentina. Chiliotrichiopsis is one of six shrubby South American genera of Astereae (subtribe Hinterhuberinae) with paleate receptacles. Observations on morphology and a key to these genera provide perspective for the generic placement of the new species.
2807848|Aspects of the pollination ecology of Browneopsis disepala, including floral scent composition, were studied. Floral scent was collected with head space techniques and analyzed by coupled gas chromotography-mass spectometry. Inflorescence and flower development were followed, and amount and concentration of nectar measured. Flower-visiting animals were observed nocturnally and diurnally. Inflorescences of B. disepala emit a floral scent that is typical of neither moth- nor bat-pollinated plants, but contains some compounds related to both pollination types. Nectar is produced in quantities and with sugar concentrations falling within a range typical of both moth-and bat-pollinated plants. The inflorescences are visited by both moths and bats, but the behavior of the bats suggests that they are the more efficient pollinators. Browneopsis disepala has a mixed pollination system and is dependent on animals for pollination.
2805896|Seven species of Joosia are recognized, four of which are new: J. ulei, J. aequatoria, J. standleyana, and J. macrocalyx, All of the species are confined to western South America from Colombia south to Peru with the main center of dispersal in Ecuador. A new subgenus, Sectocalyx, is also described.
3218429| Bletia purpurea is the most widespread species in its genus. Morphological variation has been recognized throughout the range of its distribution.In this paper, the morphological variation from 63 populations (583 individuals) of Bletia purpurea is assessed to determine whether more than one species were present. Forty-four quantitative and qualitative characters were examined by univariate analyses and exploratory multivariate analyses. Univariate analyses indicate that quantitative characters such as lateral sepal width, petal width, lip length, and lip width are significantly different for populations from Acaznica, Mexico. Floral parts in the populations from Acaznica are the smallest among all populations. Qualitative characters such as petals covering the lip midlobe and horizontal lip position are found exclusively in the same populations.We concluded that these populations should be described as a new species, B. riparia. Multivariate analyses indicated that morphological variation among the other populations cannot be ascribed to geographic distribution or ecological factors. [Spanish]Bletia pupurea es la especie ms ampliamente distribuda del gnero. Se ha reconocido una gran variacin morfolgica en todo su rango de distribucin. En este artculo, se caracteriza la variabilidad morfolgica de 63 poblaciones (583 individuos) de Bletia purpurea para determinar si es posible reconocer ms de una especie. Se consideraron 44 caracteres cuantitativos y cualitativos y se analizaron con mtodos univariados y mtodos exploratorios multivariados.Los nalisis univariados indican que caracteres cuantitativos tales como ancho del spalo lateral, ancho del ptalo y longitud del labelo fueron significativos para las poblaciones de Acaznica, Mxico. Los elementos florales en las poblaciones de Acaznica fueron los ms peques de entre todas las poblaciones estudiadas. Caracteres cualitativos tales como ptalos cubriendo el lbulo medio del labelo y una posicin horizontal del labelo fueron tambin encontrados nicamente en estas mismas poblaciones. Se concluye que deben ser descritas como una nueva especie, B. riparia. Los anlisis multivariados indican que la variacin morfolgica del resto de las poblaciones estudiadas no puede atriburse a su distribucin geogrfica o a factores ecolgicos. 
2805083|The first species of Ixocactus Rizzini, I. hutchisonii Kuijt, is described and illustrated. The genus is unique in the family in that it is squamate and lacks inflorescences. Other remarkable features are the dense covering of spines, tetracolpate pollen, the small number of pollen grains per anther, the small size of the flower, and the occurrence of this parasite on stems and roots of other mistletoes. Ixocactus is believed to be related to Oryctanthus.
2805925|A monotypic genus, Fryxellia Bates (Malvaceae: Malveae), is described; the description of the type species, Fryxellia pygmaea (Correll) Bates from northern mexico (Coahuila) and Texas, is amplified. Consideration is given to the relationship of Fryxellia to other genera, especially Anoda Cav., Horsfordia A. Gray, and Gaya H.B.K., the latter with particular reference to G. violacea Rose.
2805726|A revision of the endemic Hawaiian fern genus Adenophorus is presented, based upon herbarium specimens, field work, and anatomical studies. Eight species and one hybrid are recognized. Keys to the taxa, descriptions, and discussions of variation are provided. New taxa are Adenophorus subgen. Oligadenus, A. periens, and A. tamariscinus var. epigaeus. Two new combinations are proposed: Adenophorus oahuensis and A. tamariscinus var. montanus.
2807870|Cavendishia osansis Luteyn & J. F. Morales, C. linearifolia Luteyn & J. F. Morales, C. herrerae Luteyn & J. F. Morales, and C. luteynii J. F. Morales are newly described based on recent collections from Costa Rica. Relationships within Cavendishia are discussed, and Cavendishia osansis and C. linearifolia are illustrated.
2805629|Platyschkuhria is considered to be a monotypic genus of the subtribe Bahianae. Varietal morphologic variation in P. integrifolia is reported.
2807722|Viola subsect. Boreali-Americanae, confined to North America including northern Mexico, has long been considered one of the most taxonomically difficult temperate groups of the angiosperms. Hybridization, followed in some localities by introgression, has made it difficult for systematists to discern the "core" species by using only standard macromorphological characters. Analyses that employed scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of seed coats and petal trichomes generated new characters. SEM of the surface of seeds of each of the orthospecies revealed a suite of primary and secondary sculpture characters unique to each species that are correlated with a suite of macromorphological characters. In a number of species, SEM of petal trichomes provided additional unique characters. SEM of the surface of seed coats enabled, also, the identification of instances of hybridization by revealing blends of structures of the primary and secondary sculpture typical of different orthospecies and instances of putative introgression by revealing deviations in surface structures from those typical of orthospecies. A procedure bassed on iterative examinations of macromorphology and micromorphology, which was developed in this research, enabled the discernment of hybrids and putative introgressants. Combining the micromorphological and macromorphological data with ecological and phytogeographical data enabeld the delimitation of sixteen orthospecies.
2806856|Hitherto "suppressed," Cacao guianensis, based on a mixture of elements that can be referred to three currently recognized species (i.e., Theobroma cacao, T. subincanum, and T. velutinum), is lectotypified by Aublet's illustrations of its flowers. This makes C. Guianensis a Taxonomic synonym of T. cacao and encourages nomenclatural stability by permitting the continued use of T. subincanum and T. velutinum.
30218819|Polygala pauciramosa, a new species from the Federal District and the state of Gois is described, illustrated, and compared with related species of Polygala subgenus Hebeclada. The new species is an herb that grows in seasonally to permanently wet savannas. A key to the species of Polygala subgenus Hebeclada from Gois state, Brazil is provided.
2805590|Hybrids of Aletris lutea X A. obovata were found to occur extensively throughout the area of overlapping distribution of the two species in Florida and in southern Georgia. Hybrids were found only in disturbed habitats near the parental species. Colonization and dispersal of species and of hybrids were probably implemented by roadside maintenance operations. Fertility was high despite the high incidence of quadrivalent formation in parent and hybrid plants. Since all quadrivalents observed were aligned adjacently and since fertility is relatively high, it is suggested that duplicated chromosomes were present. It is further suggested that Aletris represents a tetraploid with a base number of x= 6 or 7 that either lost or gained one pair of chromosomes to result in n=13. Introgression in disturbed habitats is favored by zonation of plants in hybrid swarms, phenology of parents and hybrids, and pollinator behavior.
4497341| Ctenitis bigarellae, a new species from Paran State, is described. It appears to be narrow endemic to Paran, growing on peculiar sandstone formations, between 900 and 1000 meters. A description and illustrations are provided, as well as comments on the closest related species. 
2805082|A combined taxonomic revision and wood anatomical study of Dicorynia, a South American genus of legumes that is unusual in both its floral and wood anatomy, is presented. Two evolutionary pathways leading to the unique 8- to 10-thecate anthers are discussed, and it is concluded that apical proliferation of the thecal primordia is the more likely. Gross and microscopic features of this silica-accumulating wood are given in detail and contrasted with other legume woods especially those containing silica. Economic uses of the trees, especially the wood of D. guianensis, are discussed particularly in regard to marine construction. It is suggested that the high resistance of this wood to marine borers lies not so much in its silica content as to the presence of some other chemical. Based on the similarity of floral and fruit structures, the number of species is reduced from 7 to 2: D. guianensis in the Guianas and D. paraensis in the Amazonian region. Vegetative variations in the Amazonian population, previously given species rank, are reduced to 5 new varieties of D. paraensis.
30219375|Lonchocarpus variabilis, from Mato Grosso do Sul State in Midwestern Brazil, is newly described and illustrated on the basis of field and herbarium studies. It occurs in seasonally deciduous forests and gallery forests at 150-681 m elevation. This species grows in sandy, calcareous, and iron rocky soils. It is similar to L. fendleri, but differs in number of leaflets and shape of the calyx. Moreover, L. variabilis has a staminal tube dilated at the base and anthers with a glabrous base.
2807174|A new species of Pavonia (P. ecostata) from the Sierra Cocoma is described and illustrated and compared to its closest allies, P. alia and P. pulidoae.
2805522|The value of the leaf epidermis, particularly the glandular trichomes, in the identification and classification of the 37 species of Combretum recognized in America is assessed. The wide range of trichome types found, in general, differentiates groups of species corresponding closely with the 11 sections recognized by Exell, rather than distinguishing individual species. The taxonomic value of these trichomes is demonstrated to be at least as great as that of any other organ in the genus, and in a number of cases valuable criteria have been obtained for the first time.
2806738|Clitoria irwinii Fantz is a new species from the Brazilian Planalto assigned to subg. Neurocarpum (Desv.) Baker sect. Neurocarpum because of the diagnostic costate legume and other features characteristic of this section. It has close affinities with C. densiflora (Benth.) Benth. and C. stipularis Benth.
2807502|Convolvulus chaudharyi, apparently endemic to the south-western parts of Saudi Arabia, is described.
2807455|seventeen new species and combinations are proposed in the genera Chodrorhyncha, Cischweinfia, Cochlioda, Eloyella, Encyclia, Kefersteinia, Koellensteinia, Macroclinium, Rodriguezia, Solenidiopsis, and Stenia. All new species are illustrated. A key is provided for 2-flowered species of Macroclinium, Peruvian Sigmatostalix, and Peruvian Stenia. Solenidium (Solenidiopsis) peruvianum Schltr. is lectotypified.
4497347|Schizachyrium sulcatum, distributed in Brazil, Bolivia and Colombia, is described, illustrated, and reported for the first time from Peru and Venezuela. Synonymy, geographical distribution, ecology, and a list of representative specimens examined are provided. Characters of taxonomic value are established in order to differentiate this species from S. brevifolium. A comparative study based on morphology, leaf anatomy, and micromorphological features of the spikelets and leaf blade are included. The multivariate analysis based on morphological variables allows S. sulcatum to be distinguished clearly from S. brevifolium.
3218424|Pericarp histology in the Archontophoenicinae provides little to characterize the subtribe as a whole, revealing instead two separate trends with parallels in other subtribes of the Areceae. The data support a close relationship among the three genera occurring in New Caledonia: Chambeyronia, Actinokentia, and Kentiopsis, in which there is a complex endocarp consisting of short, oblique fibrous bundles embedded in a thick mantle of brachysclereids, and a loose endocarp of heavily fibrous, flattened vascular bundles adjacent to a relatively thin locular epidermis. The data also support a close relationship between the two genera of the New Zealand /Tasman Sea region: Hedyscepe and Rhopalostylis, in which the pericarp is more or less fibrous throughout, with purely fibrous bundles in the outer pericarp and heavily fibrous vascular bundles in the inner pericarp. These results confirm relationships revealed by other morphological data. Archontophoenix appears to be most like the New Caledonian genera in its pericarp structure, with a similar mantle of short fibrous bundles embedded in a a mantle of brachysclereids in the outer pericarp, although it differs significantly in other aspects of morphology and anatomy.
2805682|Morphological and cytological observations on Zinnia-Tragoceras hybrids are presented. At the diploid level, the cytology of the artificial hybrids indicates that Zinnia sect. Mendezia and Tragoceras share a common genomic background, and that the divergence of the two genera has been accompanied by reciprocal translocations involving nonhomologous chromosomes. Diakinesis associations in artificial tetraploids of the hybrids have been used to shed light on the extent of chromosome homology of the parents. As a result of this study Tragoceras has been merged into Zinnia as a new section.
2807666|Taxonomic revision of South American species of Grindelia Willd. has revealed two new species from Uruguay: G. rupestris, an erect subshrub with crowded obovate denticulate leaves, subsessile heads, and pappus composed of numerous awns, and G. linearifolia, a prostrate shrublet with small entire linear leaves. Both species are described and illustrated. A key for the Uruguayan Grindelia species is provided.
2807644|Described from the Planalto of Brazil are: Calea quadrifolia, C. heteropappa, and C. abbreviata of section Meyeria, C. intermedia of section Lemmatium, and C. lutea of section Calea. The relationships of each are discussed and a key to the nearest relatives of each is provided. Additionally, all but C. intermedia are illustrated.
3218504| Pictolejeunea reginae, a new species from Venezuela is described and illustrated. It is the type of the new subgenus Neopictolejeunea Ilkiu-Borges, which is characterized by entire underleaves. A key to the two subgenera and four known species of Pictolejeunea is provided. /// [Spanish] Pictolejeunea reginae, uma nova espcie encontrada na Venezuela,  descrita e ilustrada. A espcie  tratada como tipo do novo subgnero Neopictolejeunea Ilkiu-Borges, caracterizada pelos anfigastros inteiros.  apresentada uma chave para os dois subgneros e as quatro espcies de Pictolejeunea. 
2807422|Aiphanes monostachys Burret is shown to have been based on a mixed specimen that included the inflorescence of A. macroloba Burret. The possibility that A. leiospatha Burret might have been based on the misplaced inflorescence of A. monostachys is discussed; A. macroloba is redescribed, with A. chocoensis A. Gentry reduced to synonymy under it, and an emended description of A. monostachys is also provided.
2806941|Isidrogalvia longiflora, a new combination based on Asagraea longiflora, is proposed. It is the first record of Isidrogalvia from Bolivia.
2805624|Described as new are Cuphea flavovirens (sect. Heterodon), C. dibrachiata (sect. Leptocalyx), and C. ownbeyi (sect. Diploptychia).
3218534| Tovomita calophyllophylla, from white sand forests of the Amazonian lowlands of Colombia and Peru, is described. The species is unique by its leaves and petioles which somewhat resemble those of two other genera of Clusiaceae, Calophyllum and Garcinia. ///[Spanish]Tovomita calophyllophylla, una nueva especie de los bosques sobre arenas blancas de la Amazona colombiana y peruana es descrita. Esta especie es nica por sus hojas y peciolo que asemejan algo a los de otros dos gneros de Clusiaceae, Calophyllum y Garcinia. 
2806178|Four new species, Penstemon janishiae. P. barnebyi, P. mucronatus and P. patricus, and three new varieties, P. dolius var. duchesnensis, P. angustifolius var. vernalensis and P. acuminatus var latebracteatus, all from the Intermountain Region, are desribed, illustrated and mapped, and relatioships with next of kin are discussed.
2806391|Leptotheca is recognized as comprising two species, L. boliviana Herzog (L. costaricensis Cardot & Ther., syn. nov.) and L. gaudichaudii Schawaegr. The latter species consists of two varieties, var. gaudichaudii and var. wattsii (Cardot) comb. nov. The genus is characterized by its acrocarpous habit, lanceolate leaves with an excurrent costa and smooth, thick-walled cells, and the occurrence of uniseriate, usually papillose propagula on the upper stems. The genus is transferred from the Aulacomniaceae to the Rhizogoniaceae on the basis of gametophytic and sporophytic characters. A key to the genera of the Rhizogoniaceae is provided.
2806275|Campylopus schimperi is known in North America from Oaxaca, Colorado, British Columbia, Yukon, Alaska, Baffin Island, Gaspe Peninsula, and Newfoundland, and reported form Greenland. No specimens of the previously reported C. subulatus were found from North America and this species should be excluded from the North American bryophyte flora. A quantitative study and critical review of the characters distinguishing these two species indicate that leaf laminal cell shape and lenght, and costal anatomy are the most definitive taxonomic features. The distributional range of C. schimperi in North America suggests a close association with unglaciated areas and hypothesized glacial refugia.
2666538|A new subspecies of Consolea millspaughii is described from the eastern bluff of Cayman Brac and northern coastal terrace of Little Cayman (Cayman Islands, British West Indies). This taxon has been mistakenly identified as Consolea spinosissima since its first collection in 1938. However, the smooth surface of its stem segments, not being demarcated by a network of depressed lines, its pitted areoles, and the fairly reduced pedicellate area of the pericarpel set it apart from this Jamaican endemic. Because the novelty here described brings to three the number of Consolea taxa that are characterized by very closely set, pitted areoles, an informal "C. millspaughii species-group" is recognized. This assemblage of Western Caribbean opuntioids includes Consolea corallicola, C. millspaughii subsp. millspaughii, and C. millspaughii subsp. caymanensis. The new subspecies is described, illustrated, and compared with C. spinosissima and with kindred taxa within the species-group. A key to all species and subspecies of Consolea is provided.
2806813|A new peltate-leaved, tuberculate-fruited Hydrocotyle, that occurs in evergreen tropical montane forest in the vicinity of waterfalls, is described from northern Peru.
40792901|A synopsis of the genus Cohniella is presented with nomenclatural updates with a discusin of diagnostic features and biogeographical data. Thirteen species and one natural hybrid are recognized. Two new species, Cohniella pndula and Cohniella biorbicularis, are described and illustrated. The following four new combinations are proposed: Cohniella binotii, Cohniella brachyphylla, Cohniella cepula, and Cohniella longifolia. Lectotypes are selected for Oncidium subulifolium, Oncidium helicanthum, Oncidium humboldtii, Oncidium jonesianum var. phaeanthum, Oncidium cepula, and Oncidium wittii. We also propose an amended lectotype for Epidendrum cebolleta and several epitypifications and new synonyms. A key to the genera of the Trichocentrum complex is presented (Appendix) as well as keys to the species of Cohniella. Se presenta una sinopsis del gnero Cohniella, con actualizaciones nomenclaturales y discusiones de caracteres diagnsticos y datos biogeogrficos. Se aceptan 13 especies y un hbrido natural en el gnero. Dos especies nuevas, Cohniella pndula y Cohniella biorbicularis, se describen e ilustran. Se proponen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Cohniella binotii, Cohniella brachyphylla, Cohniella cepula y Cohniella longifolia. Se seleccionan lectotipos para Oncidium subulifolium, Oncidium helicanthum, Oncidium humboldtii, Oncidium jonesianum var. phaeanthum, Oncidium cepula y Oncidium wittii. Tambin proponemos una modificacin a la lete-tipificacin de Epidendrum cebolleta y varias epitipificaciones y nuevos sinnimos. Se presenta una clave para los gneros del complejo Trichocentrum en un apndice, as como una clave para las especies de Cohniella.
2805435|Constantine Samuel Rafinesque (1783-1840) proposed about 2700 generic names and over 6700 binomials in approximately 1000 known publications. His herbarium at one time supposedly contained some 50,000 specimens, but after his death part of it was destroyed by rats, and Elias Durand, who eventually purchased the collection, discarded virtually all of the specimens. Because of these circumstances, plant taxonomists have had difficulty in typifying Rafinesque's names. This paper summarizes the information on the labels of 275 specimens of Rafinesque's vascular plants from the United States and Canada that are known to exist at the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia. These specimens come from four sources: (1) Rafinesque's own herbarium, (2) Charles Wilkins Short's herbarium, (3) the William Hembel collection, and (4) the herbarium of Rev. Lewis David von Schweinitz. Of the 275 specimens still extant, 51 (18.5%) are considered to be possible types. These type specimens are enumerated with (1) the complete data on the specimen, (2) the original source herbarium, and in most cases (3) the current accepted name of the taxon.
2666573|A new species, Trichomanes resinosum, is described and compared to two similar species, T. elegans Rich. and T. rigidum Sw., with which it has been confused.
40793372|Mentzelia hualapaiensis, a new species of Mentzelia sect. Bartonia, is described from the Grand Canyon region of Arizona. The new species is closely related to M. puberula, which is found west of M. hualapaiensis along the Colorado River, and to M. oreophila, M. polita, and M. tiehmii. It shares with these species a suffrutescent shoot system characterized by a subterranean, branching caudex, multiple annual branches, and similar leaves that have shallowly lobed or toothed to entire laminas. The flowers of M. hualapaiensis differ from those of its closest relatives in having cream-white, linear to narrowly spatulate petals and staminodes, characteristics that are convergent with those of the flowers of the Chihuahuan Desert species M. humilis.
2807223|We report six species of pteridophytes as new records for Quintana Roo, Mexico: Adiantum villosum, Cheilanthes microphylla var. fimbriata, Pteris grandifolia, Nephrolepis biserrata, Salvinia minima, and Thelypteris augescens. The last one is also a new record for Mexico.
4497330|Nine new species of Solanum and two of Capsicum are described from Bolivia. Notes are provided on some other species, including the complex typification of Solanum aridum. Capsicum caballeroi, C. ceratocalyx, Solanum chalmersii, S. clandestinum, S. comarapanum, S. complectens, S. monanthemon, S. moxosense, S. pedemontanum, S. saturatum, and S. whalenii are described and illustrated, and a new name, S. scuticum, is proposed for the species previously known as S. tabacifolium.
2806371|The Chihuahuan Desert Anisacanthus junceus (Torr.) Hemsl. is recognized as a distinct species and is compared with A. linearis to which it appears similar and A. wrightii to which it is possibly related.
2806345|Penstemon goodrichii of sect. Cristati and P. navajoa and P. moriahensis of sect. Glabri are described, illustrated and mapped. Their relationships to kindred species are discussed.
4098978| Three new species of Brazilian Dendropanax from the rain forests of Bahia state are described and illustrated. Dendropanax amorimii, endemic to the rain forests near Boa Nova, in southern Bahia, is characterized by compound umbellate inflorescences with elongated primary branches each having a proximal whorl of bracts, and by leaves with well-developed tertiary venation. Dendropanax bahiensis, endemic to the Atlantic rain forests of southern Bahia, is distinguished by its large and membranous leaves with reddish schizogenous glands on the abaxial surface and by the reduced and branched inflorescences with short-pedicellate flowers and large fruits. Dendropanax geniculatus, an endemic species from the "matas de grot o" of Serra da Chapadinha, Chapada Diamantina, is characterized by simple and usually geniculate inflorescences bearing long-pedicellate flowers and fruits. /// Trs espcies novas de Dendropanax de florestas ombrfilas do estado da Bahia so descritas e ilustradas. Dendropanax amorimii, endmica de florestas ombrfilas das proximidades de Boa Nova, na regio sul da Bahia,  caracterizada por inflorescncias do tipo umbela composta com ramos primrios alongados com um verticilo proximal de brcteas e folhas com a nervao terciria bastante desenvolvida. Dendropanax bahiensis, endmica de florestas ombrfilas do sul da Bahia,  caracterizada pelas folhas grandes e membranceas com glndulas esquizgenas avermelhadas visveis na face abaxial e pelas inflorescncias curtas e ramificadas com flores curto-pediceladas e frutos grandes. Dendropanax geniculatus, endmica das "matas de groto" da Serra da Chapadinha, Chapada Diamantina,  caracterizada pelas inflorescncias simples e geralmente geniculadas com flores e frutos longo-pedicelados. 
2805891|The Calyptridium umbellatum complex (Portulacaceae), which has been treated as including from one to nine species, is shown to comprise three morphologically distinctive species. Two of these are common, wide-ranging, montane perennial herbs-C. umbellatum, which occurs over a large part of western North America, and C. monospermum, which largely replaces C. umbellatum in cismontane California. The third member of the complex is the rare or possibly extinct C. pulchellum. The perennial members of this complex are accorded the status of a separate genus, Spraguea, by most authors, but a comparative study of the morphology and karyology of all species of Calyptridium shows this separation to be unwarranted. Chromosome numbers of n=22, obtained from eight populations of C. umbellatum and six of C. monospermum, constitute the first reported counts for these species. Hybridization studies involving C. umbellatum and C. monospermum indicate that they are isolated by an imcomplete noncrossability barrier.
23254275|Impatiens jinpingensis, a new species of Balsaminaceae from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. It is compared to the three similar species (Impatiens kamtilongensis, Impatiens wuchengyihii and Impatiens lancisepala) from Yunnan, China.
2806639|Girard, a career army surgeon, known as a botanical collector chiefly through a few citations by Rothrock (1879), proves to have collected a considerable series in Arizona, probably in 1874. The probable source of the specimens is discussed. The collection is now deposited at MICH.
3218358|Schefflera aurata, a new species of Araliaceae endemic to the restinga forests of southern Bahia, Brazil, is described and illustrated. It is probably related to S. morototoni, but can be distinguished by leaflets with strongly coriaceous blades, cuspidate apices, golden-sericeous indument of the abaxial surfaces, partial inflorescences with 8-12 subsessile flowers, elongated ovaries, and distinctly larger fruits.
4098981|Bulbophyllum wuzhishanensis, a new species from Hainan, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is probably related to Bulbophyllum ledungense, but differs from it by having a long inflorescence, a column without stelids, and a longer lip.
2807266|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine foliar surface features such as cuticular patterns, epicuticular wax, and trichome types in species of Alnus, Betula, Carpinus, Corylus, and Ostrya. Six trichome types are recognized in this survey, four non-glandular (acicular, filiform, aduncate, subulate) and two glandular (stipitate gland and peltate scale). The distribution of these trichomes among the genera supports the recognition of two tribes, Betuleae (Alnus and Betula) and Coryleae (Carpinus, Corylus, and Ostrya). Trichome morphology can be an important supportive taxonomic character in determining evolutionary relationships.
2807051|Two new species of Bejaria, B. zamorae from Ecuador and B. infundibula from Peru, are described, illustrated, and compared with other species of the genus.
2807260|Lasiadenia ottohuberi from Venezuela is described and illustrated. Differences between the South American genus Lasiadenia and the related Cuban genus Linodendrom are discussed.
4099027| A new species, Senecio chipauquilensis, from the Meseta de Somuncur in the province of Rio Negro (Argentina), is described and illustrated. The new species resembles Senecio subpanduratus, but it is clearly different by its sessile basal leaves, strongly auriculate and amplexicaul cauline leaves, and less number of phyllaries in the head, dorsally 1-2 veined. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Senecio chipauquilensis, de la Meseta de Somuncur, en la Provincia de Ro Negro (Argentina). La nueva especie es afn a Senecio subpanduratus O. Hoffm., pero se diferencia claramente por sus hojas basales ssiles, sus hojas caulinares fuertemente auriculadas y amplexicaules y sus captulos con menor nmero de filarias, dorsalmente 1-2-nervias. 
2807121|Apeiba uittienii is described as new and illustrated. This species is morphologically somewhat intermediate between the two sections formerly recognized in this genus. A revised key to the species of Apeiba (now eight in number) is provided.
3218339|Lectotypes are selected for names of five taxa in five genera of Brassicaceae: Boechera, Cardamine, Caulanthus, Cusickiella, Descurainia. Fourteen new combinations are made in six genera: Boechera, Descurainia, Erysimum, Parrya, Physaria, and Thelypodium.
2806791|Thrasya parvula, T. seminuda and T. granitica are described as new species, T. petrosa var. ciliata as a new variety, and T. scandens as a new combination. Thrasyopsis jurgensii is proposed as a new combination.
2807683|The genera of Malvaceae that occur in North. Central, and South America (including the Caribbean) are enumerated, described, and distinguished, using and artificial key. The usual taxonomic information (bibliographic citations, synonyms, type species, etc.) is presented and the generic names are indexed. The literature is reviewed and summarized for each genus, presenting such information (where appropriate) as the etimology of the name, number of species, infrageneric classification, distribution, chromosome numbers, economic importance, distinguishing features, and reference to representative illustrations. Where useful, the taxonomic history of the genus is summarized. A listing of unresolved taxonomic problems in the family is presented to highlight needs for future study. A detailed bibliography is included. One new combination is made: Palaua sandemanii (sandwith) Fryxell, based on the Peruvian Malvastrum snademanii Sandwith.
2805906|Chromosome numbers of 34 species of Dominican Compositae in 26 genera and nine tribes are reported. First counts are given for Coreopsis buchii (2n = 64), Lagascea mollis (2n = 34), Spilanthes urens (n = 16), Liabum subacaule (n = 18), Eupatorium sciatraphes (2n = 40), Hieracium gronovii (2n = 18), Vernonia buxifolia (2n = 34), V. sprengeliana (2n = 34), V. racemosa (2n = 28) and Chaptalia leiocarpa (2n = 48, ca. 58). Our report for Narvalina domingensis (2n = 120) is the first for any species of this genus.
2807563|Three species of Bactris are recognized in the Greater Antilles: B. cubensis (from Cuba), B. plumeriana (from Hispaniola), and B. jamaicana (from Jamaica). A cladistic analysis of the non-ocreate clade-i.e., Bactris cubensis, B. plumeriana, B. jamaicana, B. macana, and B. gasipaes-confirmed that the creater Antillean species of Bactris form a monophyletic group, i.e., the Antillean clade. Synapomorphies supporting the Antillean clade are mesocarp and endocarp fibers numerous, parallel, predominantly narrow, few broad, extending the entire length of the endocarp; and leaf segments 45-80 per side of rachis. The presence of fibersclereids in the leaf lamina, and petals of the staminate flowers ovate to ovatetrullate, with sparsely branched fibers, may represent additional synapomorphies. Bactris plumeriana and B. jamaicana are hypothesized to be sister species, a grouping weakly supported by their short anthers. Each species has at least one autapomorphy; therefore, all are considered to be a cladospecies. Noteworthy interpopulational variation occurs within Bactris plumeriana and B. cubensis.
3218419|Agave vivipara L. and A. angustifolia Haw., considered conspecific by Wijnands, are shown to be two distinct species. A previous neotypification (as a lectotypification) of A. angustifolia by Gentry is superseded because it is in conflict with the protologue; a new neotype is designated herein. The economic importance of A. angustifolia is summarized.
2806221|Pyrethrins, the active ingredients of the insecticide pyrethrum, are very effective in killing insects but are quite harmless to mammals. When combined with silica gel to form Drione powder, they can be applied inside herbarium cases for long-term protection against insects. Preliminary tests at the New York Botanical Garden have shown that Drione powder or aerosol spray readily kills anobiid beetles. Drione has potential as a safer alternative to dangerous chemicals that have been used in the past.
2805701|Although discounted in a monograph recognizing Stylisma as distinct from Bonamia, pollen morphology is useful in distinguishing these genera. Light and scanning electron microscopy show that the pollen of Stylisma is characterized by an advanced 3-aggrecolpate aperture totaling 12 or 15 colpi, while pollen of Bonamia is typically of a primitive 3-colpate type.
2805793|Two new species of Briquetia, B. sonorae and B. inermis, are described from northern Mexico, and another species that ranges from Mexico to Bolivia in transferred into the genus as B. spicata. The genus (previously known as monotypic, Paraguayan-Brazilian) is thereby enlarged from one species to four, and its geographical and morphological limits are greatly expanded. Also, a Mexican species of Abutilon is transferred to Hochreutinera, as H. amplexifolia, enlarging that genus from one to two species. On the basis of this new information, the limits of the informal Briquetia alliance are reconsidered; it is considered to include only Briquetia, Dirhamphis, and Batesimalva.
2807565|One new species and one new variety of Bauhinia subg. Phanera sect. Caulotretus are described. Both taxa are tendrilled lianas with woody fruit and both are apparently endemic to Southern Bahian moist forest. Bauhinia carvalhoi has the smallest entire leaves known in the section. Bauhinia angulosa var. bahiana apparently replaces, in "Mata higrfila sul Bahiana," the typical variety from southeastern Brazil. A key to the three taxa of this section known from Bahia is provided.
2807207|A new and rare species, Picramnia bullata, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest relatives. It is unique in its hirsute pubescence, numerous, elongate, bullate leaflets, and long, pendent, unbranched inflorescences.
2807427| Solanum malacothrix S. Knapp is described from the slopes of the Sierra Madre del Sur in the Ro Balsas drainage in the state of Guerrero. It is apparently rare, and has been collected only twice. Its relationship to other species in Mexico and northern South America is discussed. 
4098969| Asa Gray made clear the distinction between subgenus and section in the preface of the second edition of his Manual of Botany of the Northern United States (1856). He failed to distinguish between the two infrageneric ranks in the 1848 edition. In 1856, subgenera were published with the symbol  followed by the epithet in capitalized letters while the epithets at sectional rank appear following the symbol  with only the initial letter capitalized. This clarification does not change the nomenclature of the correct name for the subgenus to which the herbaceous-stemmed smilaxes of North America and also eastern Asia belong, and whose subgeneric name is Smilax subgenus Luiste Raf. (1840). 
41406789|Seven new species of Andean Vaccinium are described, illustrated, and briefly discussed. They are Vaccinium aristatum and Vaccinium saxatilis from Ecuador; Vaccinium youngii, Vaccinium ortizii, Vaccinium continuum, Vaccinium amazonicum, and Vaccinium urubambensis from Peru. Se describen, ilustran y discuten siete nuevas especies de Vaccinium de los Andes. Estas son Vaccinium aristatum y Vaccinium saxatilis del Ecuador; Vaccinium youngii, Vaccinium ortizii, Vaccinium continuum, Vaccinium amazonicum y Vaccinium urubambensis del Per.
40648183|Two new species, Elaphoglossum alvaradoanum and E. pendulum, are described. The first species is endemic to Cocos Island, and the second to the mountains of Costa Rica. Elaphoglossum auripilum van longipilosum is elevated to species rank as E. longipilosum. Dos especies nuevas, Elaphoglossum alvaradoanum y E. pendulum, son descritas. La primera especie es endmica de la Isla del Coco, y la seguna de las montaas de Costa Rica. Elaphoglossum auripilum var. longipilosum es elevado a estatus de especie como E. longipilosum.
2805630|The karyology and taxonomy of Pedicularis parryi A. Gray is discussed, and it is proposed that the species consists of three subspecies: ssp. parryi, ssp. purpurea, and ssp. mogollonica. A key to these taxa, and also a key to the Rocky Mountain species most likely to be confused with them are presented.
2806816|On the basis of habital, foliar, and cytological characters, the taxa Apium lacniniatum (DC.) Urban, A. leptophyllum var. multisectum Mathias & Constance, A. leptophyllum var. latisectum (Urban) Mathias & Constance, and A. uruguayense Mathias & Constance are transferred to the genus Ciclospermum Lagasca.
2806106|Senna (sect. Chamaefistula ser. Laxiflorae) phlebadenia, closely akin to S. australis, but the only known species of the genus with secondary veins of leaflets excurrent into a marginal nectary, is described and illustrated from two collections from the coastal plain of Bahia northeast of Salvador.
2807285|Epidendrum subgenus Epidanthus (L. O. Williams) Barringer (Orchidaceae) is a group of small, slender-stemmed epiphytes formerly classified in the genus Epidanthus L. O. Williams. The seven species are distributed from southern Mexico to Columbia in wet forests, usually above 1000 m in elevation. Species of subgenus Epidanthus are distinguished from the rest of Epidendrum by their linear leaves, slender stems, and two pollinia. The new species Epidendrum aurigineum is described and the new name Epidendrum insolatum is created for E. crassum (Dressler) Mora-Retana & J. Garcia.
2806434|Three unnamed buckwheats listed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in December 1980 as potentially endangered or threatened plants are formally proposed: E. crosbyae from Lake Co., Oregon; E. grande var. dunklei from San Miguel Island, Santa Barbara Co., California; and E. ovalifolium var. williamsiae from Washoe Co., Nevada. Several other species proposed by the Fish and Wildlife Service as potentially endangered or threatened (E. allenii, E. correllii, E. eremicum, E. floridanum, E. lemmonii, E. sp./sp. nov. ined. [=E. libertini], E. tumulosum, E. umbellatum var./var. nov. ined., E. umbellatum var. minus, E. vestitum, and E. zionis var. coccineum) are discussed and evidence is given why they cannot be considered endangered or threatened under the present Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended.
2806721|Information obtained from cytological investigations, analyses of local population samples and herbarius specimens, transplant studies, and hybridization experiments is presented and used to establish a classification of Lysimachia section Seleucia. Chromosome numbers, including first counts for six of the seven species in the section, are reported. The number 2n = 34 exists in all seven species. The basic chromosome number for the section is x = 17. Aneuploids are present in Lysimachia ciliata (2n = 34, 92, 96, 100, 108, 112). Some plants of L. tonsa are 2n = 34, others are hexaploid 2n = 102. Fertile hybrids have been obtained from crosses between all diploids and from crosses among aneuploids and between hexaploids. On the basis of this study, seven species are recognized in section Seleucia, i.e., L. ciliata, L. graminea, L. hybrida, L. lanceolata, L. quadriflora, L. radicans, and L. tonsa. Keys, descriptions, synonymies, and distribution maps are provided. Seasonal isolation is documented between L. quadriflora and L. graminea. The seven species in section Seleucia are closely related and species integrity is apparently maintained through seasonal and ecological isolating mechanisms.
2666600|The phytogeographic distribution of Cainozoic ferns is reported based upon a critical re-appraisal of the macrofossil and mesofossil record also taking account of evidence from a few highly diagnostic spores. Well-documented circum-Arctic Cainozoic floras show ferns (Woodwardia, Onoclea, Osmunda, Coniopteris and to a lesser extent Azolla) distributed around the pole to very high paleolatitudes. Some ferns are shared between the mid-paleolatitudes of North America and Europe as would be predicted from the distributions of other biota. Evidence for the composition of Cainozoic fern floras is minimal in some regions (e.g., Antarctica, Central and South America, Africa, India, South East Asia), so the absence of fern fossils from these areas has no biogeographical significance. Matoniaceae were abundant in the preceding Mesozoic. However, the absence of Cainozoic macrofossils, and the fact that no Cainozoic Matonisporites spores are Matonia-like, indicates that Matoniaceae had attained their modern relict distribution by, or very early in, the Cainozoic. The important Mesozoic families Marattiaceae and Dipteridaceae are also not represented by Cainozoic macrofossils. They probably also showed Cainozoic restriction but spores are not sufficiently diagnostic to enable testing of this hypothesis. Other ferns, which were also important in the Mesozoic (e.g., Dicksoniaceae, Glcicheniaceae), have patchy, equivocal, or inadequately published Cainozoic records. The dispersed spore record may provide an opportunity to track Cainozoic Gleicheniaceae but this approach is not without problems. Most well-represented Cainozoic fern families, genera and subgenera show widespread Cainozoic ranges, typically with considerable range extensions over their living relatives, both onto other continents and north and south to higher paleolatitudes. These include Schizaeaceae (Lygodium, Anemia, and the extinct Ruffordia), Osmundaceae (Osmunda), Pteridaceae (Acrostichum), Thelypteridaceae (Cyclosorus), Lophosoriaceae (Lophosoria), Cyatheaceae (the Cnemidaria/Cyathea decurrens clade) and the heterosporous water fern Azolla (Azollaceae). A few well-represented ferns show Cainozoic distributions similar to those of the present day (e.g., Salvinia [Salviniaceae] and Ceratopteris [Pteridaceae] [the latter by the Neogene and based only on spores]) but even these had slightly broader ranges in the Cainozoic. Some Cainozoic ferns have apparently local distributions, e.g., Blechnum dentatum (Blechnaceae) in Europe; and others are so far represented at only one or few sites, e.g., Dennstaedtiopsis (Dennstaedtiaceae), Botrychium (Ophioglossales), Grammitis (Grammitidaceae), and Makotopteris and Rumohra (Dryopteridaceae). Cainozoic fossils assigned to Dryopteris (and some other dryopteroids) require revision along with those of Thelypteridaceae, the latter having high potential to provide useful paleobiogeographic evidence, at least of the Cyclosorus group. Cainozoic records of Hymenophyllaceae and Polypodiaceae are here considered unconfirmed.
2807621|A recently completed study of Astragalus sect. Leptocarpi subsect. Californici shows that the following taxonomic adjustments are required: 1) Astragalus tener var. ferrisiae, a new variety, is described. It is compared to A. tener var. tener, as well as to A. rattanii var. jepsonianus in which it was previously included, and to the superficially similar A. clarianus with which it was confused. An illustration of the new variety, and of the fruits of these related taxa, is included. 2) Astragalus nyensis was placed in subsect. Californici by Barneby in his 1964 monograph. Morphological, anatomical, and allozyme data suggest that A. nyensis should be placed in the subsect. Leptocarpi closely allied to A. nuttallianus.
2805921|A summation of both previously reported and original data on chromosome numbers is presented for species of Heterotheca sens. lat. Chromosome numbers are listed for 24 taxa, including 20 different species. Chromosome numbers for the genus are n=4, 5, 9 ,12, and 18. The most common and possibly basic number for the genus is n=9, with the n=18 taxa considered to be tetraploids, and those with n=4 and 5 as probable aneuploid derivatives; alternatively n=4 and 5 could be considered the basic numbers with n=9 the result of polyploidy. Several nomenclatural changes have been made including the following new combinations: Heterotheca bolanderi (Gray) Harms, H. fastigiata (Greene) Harms, and H. villosa var. hispida (Hook.) Harms.
2807088| A perennial cucurbitaceous vine with large, conspicuous orange-red fruits has been known for some time from western Mexico; flowering material has recently become available, making possible its identification and an evaluation of its relationship to Ibervillea and Tumamoca. Se describe un gnero nuevo de Cucurbitaceae del occidente de Mxico, reconocido desde hace tiempo por sus frutos grandes carnosso, conspicuos, rojo-anaranjados y su hbito perenne. La recoleccin reciente de sus flores nocturnas ha facilitado su identificatin como gnero nuevo, emparentado con Ibervillea y Tumamoca. 
3218522| A synopsis of the Maxillaria rufescens Lindl. complex is provided for Mexico, Central America, and the Greater Antilles. Five species are recognized in the complex, of which one, Maxillaria sotoana Carnevali & Gmez-Jurez, is herewith proposed as new. True Maxillaria rufescens is restricted to South America. The treatment includes a key to their identification, descriptions, geographical accounts, discussions of their affinities, and illustrations. In addition, Maxillaria acutifolia var. minor Fawcett & Rendl., from the Greater Antilles, is given full specific rank as Maxillaria pudica Carnevali & Tapia-Muoz. /// [Spanish]Se presenta una sinopsis del complejo Maxillaria rufescens para Mxico, Amrica Central y las Antillas Mayores. Cinco especies se reconocen, una de las cuales, Maxillaria sotoana Carnevali & Gmez-Jurez se propone como nueva. El tratamiento incluye una clave para la identificacin de las especies reconocidas, descripciones, discusiones de sus afinidades y referencias geogrficas. Maxillaria acutifolia var. minor Fawcett & Rendl., de las Antillas Mayores, es reconocida al nivel de especie como Maxillaria pudica Carnevali & Tapia-Muoz. 
2807526| Two new species of Compsoneura (Myristicaceae) from recent collections are described, discussed, and illustrated: Compsoneura rigidifolia, a species from the wet forest along the Inter-American Highway in Panama near the continental divide, and C. schultesiana, a lowland species from Vaups, in Amazonian Colombia. 
2805564|The organic chemical constituents of compression fossils of Nematothallus, Spongiophyton, Orestovia and Eohostimella are identified and compared with those isolated from living and fossil forms of Botryococcus (a green alga) and Taeniocrada (a vascular plant fossil). The range and maxima in the carbon numbers observed in the normal, saturated acids isolated from Nematothallus, Orestovia, and Spongiophyton are similar to those of fossil Botryococcus, while those acids contained within compression fossils of Eohostimella are similar to the hydrocarbon composition fo Taeniocrada. Isoprenoid, branched hidrocarbons and steroids identified from Nematothallus, Orestovia, and Spongiophyton suggest these genera have algal affinities, while the presence of thick cuticles and in some cases cutin-like compounds appea to show adaptation to a terrestrial environment. Phenolic compounds retained within rock matrices associated with Eohostimella are similar to those isolated from Taeniocrada suggesting chemical, as well as morphological parallels with the land plant habit. These data are interpreted as indicating an early polyphyletic explaitation of the terrestrial habitat during the Paleozoic.
2807338|Two new species of Rhynchospora from Mexico are described and illustrated. The white-bracted R. oaxacana is clearly a member of subsection Longibracteatae which is otherwise found only in South America. A key to all the species of that subsection is provided. The thickened achene summit and slightly sunken style base appear to place R. durangensis in section Harveyae.
2807774|The systematic position of Cosmocalyx, heretofore treated as a genus incertae sedis, is discussed. The morphological features of Cosmocalyx suggest strong similarities to various genera of the Hamelieae, to which it is compared and where it is placed. A complete description of Cosmocalyx, observations on its phenology, and comments on calyx and fruit development are presented and illustrated.
2805516|The native bulbous Iridaceae of North America excluding Mexico comprise seven species in four genera. The type species of Alophia Herb. (1836) is shown to belong to Eustylis Engelm. & Gray (1836), hence the latter genus is reduced to synonymy. The well known genus Alophia (sensu auct. non Herb.) (Herbertia Sweet) now takes the name Trifurcia. As a result of the new interpretation of Alophia, new combinations are made for the North American and Latin American species of Trifurcia and Alophia. New chromosome counts are given for Nemastylis floridana (2n=56) and Trifurcia lahue (2n=56).
2807875|A new genus, Oletheriostrigula, is erected for Massarina papulosa. The fungus is redescribed and illustrated, additional synonymy is given, and its relationships within the Ascomycetes are discussed.
2807343|Peperomia boomii Steyermark is described from an area of igneous rocks in the northwestern sector of the state of Bolvar, Venezuela. It is compared with P. pseudodependens, P. turbonsis, and P. lanceolato-peltata.
2666555|A new species of cycad allied to the C. circinalis group, Cycas pranburiensis, is described from the southeast karst area of Thailand near Pranburi, Prachuap Khiri Khan province. It is distinguished by its short leaves with broad, coriaceous leaflets and mostly unarmed petioles, and the extended, gently curved sterile apices of the microsporophylls. The cone beetle fauna of the new species, believed to be involved in pollination, is distinct from that of other southeast Asian species of Cycas.
2806311|Minuartia decumbens, a serpentine endemic resembling the members of the Minuartia nuttallii-M. rosei complex, is described, illustrated and contrasted with the complex.
2806814|Lectotypes are designated for Amanoa caribea Krug & Urban and A. guianesis Aublet; presumed syntypes of the latter taxon are shown to be heterogeneous by inclusion of a previously unrecognized species. Four new species of Amanoa are described: A. congesta from French Guiana and northeastern Brazil; A. gracillima from Manaus, Brazil; A. nanayensis from Amazonian Peru and adjacent Colombia and Brazil; and A. neglecta from French Guiana and Surinam. Amanoa sinuosa is proposed as a new name for the later homonym A. robusta Leal. A key to the 13 neotropical species is presented.
30218813|The name Neoraputia was published without citation of the type, making it and the names of the four species transferred to it invalid. The genus name and combinations are validated here. Lectotypes are chosen for the basionyms, Aruba alba, Raputia magnifica, R. paraensis, and Raputia trifoliata. Two new species, Neoraputia micrantha and N. calliantha, from forests of eastern Bahia, Brazil, are described.
2807741|A new species of Aulonemia from the pramos of the Cordillera Oriental, Cundinamarca, Colombia, is described and illustrated. Aulonemia bogotensis is distinguished by its diminutive size, abaxially tomentose foliage leaf blades, and spikelets with muticuous lemmas. Two similar Colombian endemics, A. pumila and A. trianae, are compared and contrasted with the new species.
3218356|Illicium hottense, a new species, is here described from the floristically diverse Massif de la Hotte of southern Haiti. It is compared to related species, especially I. ekmanii, with which it has previously been confused. Illicium hottense and I. ekmanii are members of Illicium subsection Parviflora, a group that comprises four species, all endemic to peninsular Florida (I. parviflorum) or the Greater Antilles: Cuba (I. cubense) and Hispaniola (I. ekmanii, and I. hottense). The subsection is characterized by its distinctive laminar-carnose, ovoid stamens; all have trisyncolpate pollen. Illicium hottense is similar to I. ekmanii and I. parviflorum in having flowers with ten to thirteen carpels and six to less commonly eight stamens, but differs from both in its strongly papillose outer tepals and consistently acute leaves. In addition, its leaves lack the strong anise fragrance of I. parviflorum. Finally, molecular data provide support for recognizing I. hottense as a species distinct from I. ekmanii.
2805807|An analysis of variation of morphological characteristics was made in 29 populations of taxa related to Eupatorium rotundifolium. Cytological data indicated that all taxa were potentially apomictic. Four species were recognized: Eupatorium pilosum Walt., E. rotundifolium L., E. sessilifolium L., and E. vaseyi Porter. Two subspecies were recognized in E. rotundifolium: subsp. rotundifolium and subsp. ovatum (Bigelow) Montgomery & Fairbrothers. Descriptions, a key, and distribution maps are included.
3218458|Paullinia fournieri, a new species from Costa Rica is described, illustrated, and its relationships to other species are discussed.
2806349|Three genera are segregated out of Sida as natural units, viz. Sidastrum E. G. Baker, enlarged from one species to seven, Krapovickasia nom. nov. including four species, and Rhynchosida gen. nov. including two species, one described as new from Bolivia, R. kearneyi. Mericarp and calyx morphology are emphasized in delimiting these genera and in defining the residual genus Sida, which now assumes a more natural character.
2805924|Two desert shrubs belonging to Eriogonum subgen. Eucycla sect. Corymbosa are described from southern Utah and northern Arizona. Eriogonum mortonianum, endemic to red clay hills southwest fo Fredonia, in extreme northeastern Mohave County, Arizona, is most closely related to E. smithii, a species endemic to the San Rafael Desert of Emery County, Utah, but differs in having wider leaves, a much more branched inflorescence, and smaller, pale-yellow or white flowers. Eriogonum leptocladon var. papiliunculi, found in central Garfield and eastern Kane counties, Utah, southward into northern Coconino and Navajo counties, Arizona, is distinguished from var. leptocladon by its white flowers and from var. ramosissimum by its glabrous stems.
2806762|Coreopsis mutica var. simplicifolia is described from the state of Guanajuato in Mexico. The new variety is distinguishable by its simple lanceolate to linear-lanceolate leaves. In addition, var. simplicifolia is allopatric with other C. mutica and has a distinctive leaf flavonoid chemistry. The chromosome number of the variety is 2n = 56.
4099021| We review the 11 putative species of the neotropical genus Spirotheca and conclude that only five should be treated as distinct taxa. Of these, three have restricted ranges (S. awadendron, S. mahechae, S. michaeli) and two are more widespread (S. rivieri and S. rosea). We provide keys and descriptions of each of these and publish two new combinations (S. rosea and S. rivieri var. passifloroides). /// Hemos revisado las 11 especies putativas del gnero neotropical Spirotheca y concluimos que slo cinco deberan ser consideradas taxa distintas. De ellas, tres tienen distribuciones restringidas (S. awadendron, S. mahechae, S. michaeli), y las otras tienen rangos ms amplios (S. rivieri y S. rosea). Agregamos claves y descripciones para la determinacin de las mismas y publicamos dos nuevas combinaciones (S. rosea y S. rivieri var. passifloroides). 
2806692|Two new species are described: Houstonia butterwickiae from Texas and H. teretifolia from Mexico, and two new combinations are made: H. acerosa subsp. polypremoides and H. mullerae.
2806975|Begonia (sect. Gireoudia) lyman-smithii is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed.
2666544|Primula domensis Kass & S. L. Welsh, P. maguirei L. O. Williams, and P. nevadensis N. H. Holmgren are reduced to varietal status under P. cusickiana (A. Gray) A. Gray.
2807672|Revisionary work has revealed three new species of Cobaea: Cobaea flava of northern Peru, C. paneroi opf central Mexico, and C. rotundiflora of Guatemala and extreme southeastern Mexico. Cobaea flava is most similar to C. campanulata and differs mainly in its pedicel pubescence, corolla colaboration, and stamen position. Cobaea paneoroi is among the large-flowered species (the Cobaea scandens group) but is easily distinguished from these by its long-acuminate calyx segments. Cobaea rotundiflora most closely resembles C. triflora. It differs mainly in its corolla colaboration and wider, pubescent calyx segments.
2805812|The species described as new are apparently narrow endemics, all belonging to that section of Galium having fruits with long straight specialized hairs. Galium wigginsii and G. moranii are of the widespread G. wrightii-G. parishii complex, whereas G. carterae is most like the rarely collected G. oresbium Greenman of northeastern Mexico.
2805706|Eleven species of Terminalia are indigenous in Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga; the taxonomy is reviewed, with descriptions, keys, and distributional notes. Nine of the species occur in Fiji, and four or these, T. similans, T. strigillosa, T. capitanea, and T. crebrifolia, are described as new.
4497369| Dolichoura has two species, D. spiritusanctensis and D. kollmannii, the latter described here. The genus can be recognized within the tribe Merianieae by 6-or 7-merous flowers, purple petals, stamens with a dorsal, spiraled appendage at the base of the connective, and seeds with narrow, lateral wings. The new species can be recognized by the suffruticose habit, 4-winged branches, coriaceous leaves with very small petioles and bullate adaxial surfaces, and by the 6-merous flowers. /// Dolichoura apresenta duas espcies, D. spiritusanctensis e D. kollmannii, esta descrita neste trabalho. O gnero pode ser reconhecido entre aqueles na tribo Merianieae pelas flores 6- ou 7-meras com ptalas purpreas, estames com o conectivo com um apndice dorso-basal espiralado e sementes com alas laterais estreitas. A nova espcie pode ser reconhecida pelo hbito subarbustivo, ramos 4-alados, folhas coriceas com pecolos curtos e face adaxial bulada, e flores 6-meras. 
2805534|The present revision of Solanum sect. Brevantherum Seithe recognizes 12 species in North and Central America, 5 of which (S. brevipedicellatum, S. axillifolium, S. atitlanum, S. pulverulentifolium and S. chiapasense) are described as new. The traditional methods of comparative morphology are employed in delimiting the species in the herbarium, but pertinent data from field work are also included. Some of the most diagnostic features are those associated with the buds, calyces, and hairs. A key to the species is based on both vegetati ve and floral characters. Distribution maps show the widespread nature of some species and the endemism of others. All of the species are weedy and are associated with secondary growth vegetation.
2806051|A new species of Capsicum (Capsicum tovarii), found on the slopes of the Mantaro river basin, Departments Huancavelica and Ayacucho of Peru, is described. Distribution and relationships within the genus are discussed.
2806234|Four new species of Asteraceae are described from Peru: Dasyphyllum brevispinum and Onoseris chrysactinioides (Mutisieae), and Gynoxys congestiflora and Senecio miniauritus (Senecioneae). These species are described, illustrated, and their relationships discussed.
2806357|Analysis of the type collections of Chrysopsis hyssopifolia Nutt. (Compositae), C. gigantea Small and C. Mixta Dress indicates that all three are conspecific. On the other hand, plants identified by all authors as C. hyssopifolia were found not to be conspecific. A new name is here proposed for these plants, C. linearifolia Semple. Two subspecies are recognized, subsp. linearifolia confined to west Florida and subsp. dressii Semple, primarily confined to central peninsular Florida.
2805503|This report records the results of a pilot study on the usefulness of free amino acids in the taxonomy of the tribe Arundinelleae (Gramineae). The work, carried out on a Beckman Model 120C Amino Acid Analyzer and using 70% ethanolic extracts, indicated patterns of variation unrelated to those found in traditional classifications. The amino acid variation encountered should be considered taxonomic noise; this example supports the view that free amino acids may not be of general value in higher plant systematics.
2805995|Astragalus wittmannii, from northern New Mexico, representing a new subsection Nothorophaca, and A. cremnophylax var. myriorrhaphis, from northwestern Arizona, are described, figured and discussed.
2805819|A systematic treatment with synonymies, typifications, descriptions, and discussions is presented for the three presently recognized species of Dugaldia. Morphological, cytological, and chemical evidence is presented to support the recognition of Dugaldia as distinct from Helenium.
23254279|Eschweilera awaensis and Grias subbullata, two new species known from the wet forests of northwestern Ecuador, are described. Eschweilera awaensis occurs in Esmeraldas, Los Ros, and the westernmost parts of the Pichincha provinces between 25-650 m elevation. Grias subbullata, is known only from two localities in the Santo Domingo de los Tschilas province between 900-1670 m elevation. The new species are illustrated and their relationships with similar species are discussed. Describimos Eschweilera awaensis y Grias subbullata, dos nuevas especies solamente conocidas de los bosques muy hmedos del noroccidente de Ecuador. Eschweilera awaensis se encuentra en las provincias Esmeraldas, Los Ros, y porciones occidentales de Pichincha, entre 25-650 m de elevacin. Grias subbullata es solamente conocida de dos localidades ubicadas en la provincia Santo Domingo de los Tschilas, entre 900-1670 m de elevacin. Las nuevas especies son ilustradas y sus relaciones con las especies relacionadas son discutidas.
30219377|We describe 16 new species of Thelypteris (Thelypteridaceae) from Bolivia: T. aymarae, T. chaparensis, T. fasciola, T. fayorum, T. inaequilateralis, T. lumbricoides, T. madidiensis, T. minima, T. nephelium, T. parva, T. pelludia, T. pilonensis, T. rosulata, T. sapechoana, T. stephanii, and T. yungensis.
40648176|A new species, Gavilea gladysiae, is described and illustrated. This rare species inhabits the humid forests of Santa Cruz (southern Argentina) and the Magellan region (southern Chile). This species has been mistakenly identified as Gavilea kingii in herbarium collections and previous floristic works.
2806492|Cardamine angustata var. ouachitana E. B. Smith, a new variety differing from C. angustata var. angustata in absolutely glabrous leaf segments, is described from the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas.
4497339|Protium section Pepeanthos, a neotropical group of nine species ranging from Costa Rica to the southern perimeter of Amazonia, is described, as are the group's five new species: P. calendulinum, P. gallosum, P. pecuniosum, P. retusum, and P. urophyllidium. Keys are provided to flowering and to fruiting material. The new section is characterized by a milky resin; lateral leaflet pulvinuli inconspicuous or absent; style short-branched and the stigmas caudiculate and spiculate; and the cotyledons piano-convex.
2807019|Tessmannianthus cereifolius, a new species from eastern Panama, is described, illustrated, and compared to its closest presumed relative, T. heterostemon of Ecuator and Peru. The new species is distinguished by its truncate calyx, absence of exterior calyx teeth, and complete glabrosity. A 5-celled ovary is reported for the first time in T. cereifolius and T. heterostemon. The latter was previously thought to be characterized by a trilocular ovary. A distribution map and a revised key to the three Panamanian species of Tessmannianthus are also provided.
2805447|A new genus and species of Iridaceae, Fosteria oaxacana, is described from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico. This genus is closely related to Tigridia and Rigidella of tribe Tigrideae.
2805792|The number of species of Limonium in eastern North America has long been a matter of taxonomic concern. The complex of six to seven "species" is better treated as a single, highly variable species, Limonium carolinianum (Walter) Britton.
2806535|In 1788 Walter described three species of Salix in Flora Caroliniana. His Salix pentandra is the same as S. caroliniana, and S. alpina and S. occidentalis are the same as S. tristis Aiton (1789). Salix alpina is a later homonym of S. alpina Scopoli (1722), and must be rejected, but S. occidentalis is the earliest legitimate name for S. tristis and takes precedence.
40793381|Three new hermaphrodite species of Ocotea (Lauraceae) from the campos rupestres of Brazil are described and illustrated: Ocotea pumila, which is known from Bahia state; and Ocotea colophanthera and Ocotea rupestris both from Minas Gerais state. Their diagnostic features are pointed out, and a discussion of their relationships to other species of Ocotea is provided. Trs especies novas hermafroditas de Ocotea (Lauraceae) dos campos rupestres do Brasil sao descritas e ilustradas: Ocotea pumila, que  conhecida do Estado da Bahia; e Ocotea colophanthera e Ocotea rupestris ambas do Estado de Minas Grais. Suas caractersticas diagnsticas sao apontadas e urna discusso de suas relaes com outras especies de Ocotea  fornecida.
2806300|Nectria atrofusca, a parasite of Staphylea trifolia in eastern North America but extending as far west as Iowa, is redescribed. Its anamorph is described as Fusarium staphyleae Samuels & Rogerson, sp. nov.
2806458|The origin of the open areas of white sand campinas of the lowe Rio Negro is discussed. Campinas are compared with the denser campina forests or caatingas of the upper Rio Negro. It is concluded that the campinas are areas of white sand forest cleared by Indians. Evidences from pottery shards and radiocarbon dating of charcoal deposited in the soil demonstrate that the campinas were occupied by Indians of the Guarita subculture around 800 A. D. The open campina areas show a gradual succession to more closed type of campina to campina forest, the climax on the white sand. The lack of a large number of endemic species also indicates a recent origin of the open areas. Recolonization after Indian clearing is extremely slow on white sand because of limiting factors such as nutrients and excessive drainage in the dry seaon.
2805667|A revision of the genus Charpentiera (Amaranthaceae) is presented, based upon field and herbarium studies, with evidence from anatomical and cytological studies. Eight taxa are recognized. Populations of the genus are found on six of the main Hawaiian Islands and on the Austral Islands of Tubuai and Raivavae, representing a disjunction of about 2800 miles. Keys to the taxa, descriptions, distribution maps, and illustrations are provided. New taxa are C. australis, C. densiflora, C. tomentosa var. tomentosa, C. tomentosa var. maakuaensis, and C. ovata var. niuensis.
2807503|New meiotic chromosome counts are reported from 86 populations from Mexico to Ecuador of 13 species of Clibadium (Compositae, Heliantheae). These, plus previous reports, yield a total of 120 counts from 20 of the approximately 39 species recognized in the genus (Arriagada, in prep.). All counts are n = 16 with a few fragments or B-chromosomes observed sporadically in some populations. One population, containing what appear morphologically to be interspecific hybrids between C. mexiae and C. microcephalum, showed one tetravalent and fragments. Species in both historical sections (Clibadium and Trixidium, created by Candolle and maintained by Schulz) and from the five sections to be proposed in a new classification of the genus (Arriagada, in prep.) have now been counted. The uniformity of chromosome numbers within Clibadium is correlated with observed allopatric distribution of closely related taxa.
2807552|Sixty-one species of pteridophytes were found growing in a two-hectare study area that contained two major soil types. Approximately one-third of that species richness was due to the presence of edaphic variation, because 19 species were only found on the sandy loam soil and 24 were restricted to the clay soil. In the Amazon basin, within a particular climatic zone, diversity of soil type and topographic position can result in a habitat mosaic where both edaphic specialists and generalists can be found growing in one area.
2805719|Phacelia cookei and P. stebbinsii, thus far found only in California, are described as new. The former is apparently endemic to ashy volcanic sand on Mt. Shasta; the latter is found on metamorphic rock cliffs in Eldorado County.
2805605|A revision of Centaruium based on field, herbarium, and greenhouse studies shows that five species are native to Central America: C. quitense (H. B. K.). B. L. Robinson (n=21, 22), C. pauciflorum (Mart. & Gal.) B. L. Robinson (n=36), C. brachycolyx Standley & L. O. Williams (n=ca. 36), C. setaceum (Benth.) B. L. Robinson (n=21), and C. martinnii Broome (n=21), a new species. One population of a European species, C. minus Moench subsp. minus has been discovered in Costa Rica.
2807697|Aphanactis is redelimited to contain only the Andean species with reduced limbs on the ray corollas and peduncles that elongate at or after anthesis. Four species are described as new, A. antisanensis, A. barclayae, A. boliviana, and A. ollgaardii. Two species previously described in Aphanactis, A. macdonaldii and A. ligulata, are transferred to Selloa.
40793383|We propose the new name Rhynchospora galeana to replace the illegitimate later homonym R. breviseta (Gale) Channell. Rhynchospora galeana is a member of section Plumosae. It grows in savannas and pinelands in the southeastern U. S. A. and the Greater Antilles.
2805505| A new species of Centropogon (sect. Wimmeriopsis subsect. Falcati McVaugh) from Volcn Iraz, Costa Rica is described and compared with both C. valeri Standl., a closely related taxon endemic to the Cordillera de Talamanca, and with C. wimmeri Standl., known from a single specimen from the southwestern slope of Volcn Iraz. A key to and descriptions of these three taxa, which are the only North American representatives of subsect. Falcati south of Guatemala, are included. 
30219381|Edward Palmer collected plant specimens during and after his military service in Southern Arizona, 1867. His itinerary over about six weeks between Camp Grant, his last official commission, and Yuma has been poorly known, but is now revealed by a series of specimens found in the course of formerly unrelated, collections-based research. A brief historical and geographical discussion accompanies a list of the specimens collected by Palmer during this time.
40980933|Baccharis dichotoma, a new dwarf shrubby species, with small leaves and few heads, of high-altitude grasslands from southeastern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and assigned to subgenus Baccharis. Baccharis dichotoma, urna nova espcie nanofanerfita, com folhas diminutas e com poucos captulos, de campos de altitude do sudeste do Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e posicionada no subgnero Baccharis.
2807500| Senna coimbrae M. Nee & Barneby is described and illustrated from plants indigenous in the Jardn Botnico de Santa Cruz, Bolivia. In the context of ser. Bacillares, of which it has the general aspect and morphology, the syndrome of two nectaries on each leaf-stalk, almost homomorphic fertile stamens, and short, relatively few-seeded pod is distinctive. 
2807730|Three species of Lysipomia, L. caespitosa, L. cylindrocarpa, and L. speciosa, from a tropicla alpine ecosystem called pramo, are described, illustrated, and compared to related species. Notes on morphology, especially floral presentation, and general ecology are given where possible. A published key to the species in Ecuador is reviesed to include the three new species pus L. multiflora McVaugh, a species previously known only from northern Peru.
2806575|An examination of Parry's collections of Oxytheca at ISC has prompted the following comments. The holotype of O. luteola is at ISC, not IA. It is maintained as Goodmania, a genus distinct from Oxytheca, in spite of Watson's comparison of the species to O. caryophylloides in an 1882 letter to Parry. Parry's "West Colorado, 1888" is not part of the type of O. parishii var. goodmaniana. Annotation labels using the epithet "spiculata" for the South American subspecies of O. dendroidea should be changed to "subsp. chilensis."
3218516|Seven new species of Mascagnia are described: M. tomentosa from southern Mexico and Central America; M. arenicola from the Guianas; M. riparia, M. tucuruensis, and M. velutina from Brazil; M. boliviana from Bolivia; and M. australis from Argentina and Paraguay. These novelties were previously included in the "M. sepium-complex," an omniumgatherum comprising superficially similar yellow-flowered taxa.
2805441|Freycinetia corneri, of Singapore and the SE part of Johore, Malaysia (Malayan Peninsula), is proposed as new.
2806955|Calathea maasiorum from French Guiana and Surinam is described as new. It belongs to Calathea section Breviscapus Bentham. The foliage is patterned with a light green band along the midrib above. This new species has previously been confused with C. cyclophora Baker from Amazonian Colombia, Brazil, Venezuela, and Guyana but it is distinguished from C. cyclophora by the absence of bracteoles, the elliptic to obovate leaf blade, and shorter (1-2 cm long) bracts.
2666586|Two new species of Hippocrateaceae from Brazil are described and illustrated: Pristimera sclerophylla Lombardi, the one species of the genus that occurs in the xerophytic vegetation of northeastern Brazil, and Cheiloclinium puberulum Lombardi, a species with puberulent inflorescences from the rain forests of the Amazon basin.
2807534|The wood anatomy of Obolinga zanonii Barneby (tribe Ingeae) is described based on three specimens representing three trees. The wood of Obolinga is very similar to that of Cojoba, a segregate of the Pithecellobium complex. They differ only in the color and fluorescence of water and ethanol extracts.
2805542|A statistical analysis of morphological variation and a chromatographic analysis of flavonoid variation were performed to determine taxonomic relationships among the species of Tilia of eastern North America. No apparent morphological discontinuities were seen between populations within the sample area although two characters (involving leaf pubescence and gland length) showed definite patterns of geographical variation. Flavonoid patterns showed definite differences between northern and southern populations with an intermediate zone in the Smoky Mountain region. The continuous nature of the morphological and flavonoid variation suggested that the genus as represented in eastern North America should be regarded as one species, Tilia americana L.
2807610|A new species, Lepanthes caritensis, is described and illustrated. There are now nine species of Lepanthes known to occur in Puerto Rico. Plant habitat and floral morphology of L. caritensis is most similar to that of L. sanguinea. A survey of the area where the new species is located suggests that it is rare and should be protected under the Federal Endangered Species Act.
30218812|Ormosia timbonsis is described and illustrated as a new species based on fruit and leaf material collected in a fragment of Atlantic Rain Forest in central Bahia State, Brazil. This new species can be recognized by possessing the largest seed and hilum of those that have been reported in Ormosia. In addition, O. timbodnsis has leaves that in combination with the fruit characters do not match any species currently described in the genus. /// Ormosia timbonsis  descrita e ilustrada como nova esp~cie baseada apenas em material com folha e fruto coletado em um fragmento de Floresta Atlntica ombrfila na regio central da Bahia, Brasil. Esta nova espcie pode ser diferenciada por possuir semente e hilo dentre os maiores j vistos em Ormosia. Alm disso, O. timbonsis apresenta folhas que em combinao com os caracteres do fruto no permitem acomod-la em nenhuma das espcies atualmente descritas no gnero.
2805486|The polygamous fleshy-fruited Galiums of Mexico and Central America are judged to be one undivided species, and four other names are reduced to synonymy under G. aschenbornii. A map, description, discussion, and illustrations are provided.
2806066|Eupatorium godfreyanum is described as a stable triploid apomict linking E. sessilifolium L. with E. rotundifolium L. The name E. vaseyi Porter, which has often been used for this plant, does not properly apply, inasmuch as the type collection is a different apomict, linking E. sessilifolium with E. album L.
3218378|Mitracarpus longicalyx is here described and illustrated from sandy areas of the caatingas of northeastern Brazil. The new species is similar to M. hirtus and M. megapotamicus.
2806958|Sixteen new species are proposed in the genera Ackermania, Dressleria, Epidendrum, Maxillaria, Oncidium, Rodriguezia, Sigmatostalix, and Trigonidium. All new species are illustrated. Maxillaria vittariifolia L. O. Williams is newly recorded for Peru. A key is provided for Trigonidium of Peru. Trigonidium loretoense Schltr. and T. peruvianum Schltr. are lectotypified.
2806271|Brickellia nesomii, a new species from northeastern Mexico, is described. It belongs to the subgenus Phanerostylis, which Gray originally placed in Eupatorium; King and Robinson elevated the taxon to generic rank; it is herein kept at the subgeneric level but transferred to Brickellia. Reasons for this transfer are given. Barroetea glutinosa, positioned by King and Robinson in Phanerostylis, is excluded.
2806177|Flavonoid compounds from 36 of the 38 known taxa of the genus arceuthobium (dwarf mistletoes) were examined. The flavonoid chemistry of the genus is rather uniform, all taxa producing 3-O-glycosides of the flavonols quercetin and myricetin. No infraspecific chemical variation was encountered, and in those instances where subspecific taxa are recognized, their chemistry was uniform. At the subgeneric level, members of subgenus Arceuthobium synthesize primarily glucosides, whereas galactosides are more common in subgenus Vaginata. In two of the four Old World species of subgenus Arceuthobium (A. juniperi-procerae and A. oxycedri) only myricentin 3-O-glucoside was detected. There are no absolute flavonoid differences between subgenera, sections, or series. On the other hand, flavonoids are useful in several instances at the species level. In several cases, chemical data lend support to the recognition of species which in the past have been considered doubtfully distinct on the basis of morphology.
2806245|The wood anatomy of the monogeneric South American family of epiparasites, Misodendraceae, contains numerous peculiarities. In the four species of the subgenus Angelopogon the cambium is virtually inactive in ray areas. In three of those species, a second ring of fascicular areas ("bundles") forms in the pith only well after the initiation of the outer ring. Fibers occur in fascicular areas in paired strands (sheathed by crystalliferous parenchyma), as the background tissue, or may be absent, depending on the species; rays consist wholly of fibers or are composed of thin-walled cells, depending on the species. In the subgenus Misodendron (seven species), the cambium is active in fascicular areas and interfascicular areas equally; it contributes fibers to potential ray areas and to fascicular areas. If occurrence of these fibers is a criterion, the subgenus Misodendron may be considered rayless (except for M. gayanum, in which fibers occur only in rays). Growth rings are present in all species. Vessel elements are extremely short and narrow, numerous per mm<sup>2</sup>, and pores and markedly grouped; all these are highly xeromorphic features appropriate to a parasite in an extreme climatic zone. In subgenus Angelopogon, lateral wall pitting of vessels consists of laterally much-widened pits, an appearance falsely resembling helical bands of primary xylem vessels. In subgenus Misodendron, pits on vessels are alternate or scalariformlike. The difference in vessel pitting between the two subgenera may relate to wood parenchymatization. Perforation plates are simple. Pits have wide apertures in M. angulatum and M. recurvum. Pith is sclerenchymatous in subgenus Misodendron but composed of thin-walled cells in which vessel strands occur in subgenus Angelopogon. Because of the numerous specific characteristics which correspond to the taxomonic system for the family, a key to species based on wood anatomy is given. New names must be employed for both subgenera for nomenclatural reasons; thus the combination M. subgenus angelopogon (= M. subgenus Eumyzodendron) is coined. Wood anatomy of Misodendraceae is similar to that of Psittacanthus and other Loranthaceae, disregarding the unique features found in Misodendron.
30218800|Morphological and plastid rbcL and trnG-R sequence data suggest that the fern currently recognized as Megalastrum lasiernos (Dryopteridaceae) is in fact a tree fern (Cyatheaceae) and a member of the Cyathea clade. Accordingly, a new combination is made: Cyathea myriotricha. Based on morphological and ecological similarities, this species appears most closely related to C. aterrima. Both species are described and illustrated herein.
2806530|Salvia raveniana Ramammoorthy, resembling S. purpurea Cav. [S. sect. Purpureae (Epling) Epling], but differing in deeply sulcate stem, long unbranched terminal racemes, many-flowered verticils, the nature and color of pubescence (very white) of calyx contrasting with a red corolla that dries purple, the reflexed, revolute lower lip of corolla, the number of papillae in the corolla tube (2), and the slightly exserted stamens, is described from the State of Guerrero, Mexico.
2806515|One new name is proposed and eleven new combinations are made in Campomanesia and Pimenta. Lectotypes are selected for C. eugenioides var. desertorum, C. phaea, and P. racemosa var. hispaniolensis, var. ouza, and var. terebinthina.
3218497| Dacryodes is a poorly known pantropical genus of some 67 species; a new revision now under way reveals that the Neotropical region is home to at least 36 species, 14 of them undescribed. The genus is introduced with a brief taxonomic history, a presentation of the putative differences from Pseudodacryodes, a discussion of the infrageneric classification, and a preliminary comparison of Neo- and Paleotropical taxa. Characteristics that make the genus difficult to study are pointed out. Dacryodes negrensis, the first in a series of new taxa, is described and illustrated. /// [Spanish] Dacryodes es un gnero poco conocido, pantropical, compuesto por 67 especies; la regin Neotropical alberga por lo menos 36 especies, 14 de ellas sin describir. El gnero es presentado a travs de una breve resea taxonmica, descripcin de las diferencias mas significativas desde Pseudodacryodes, discusiones sobre la clasificacin infragenrica y una comparacin preliminar entre los taxa Neo- y Paleotropicales. Se resaltan las caractersticas que dificultan el estudio del gnero. Dacryodes negrensis, el primero de una serie de nuevos taxa, es descrito e ilustrado. 
30218794|Lonchocarpus castaneifolius, L. grazielae, L. longiunguiculatus, and L. montanus from Brazil are described and illustrated based on field and herbarium studies. The first species belongs to Lonchocarpus sect. Punctati and is restricted to northeastern Brazil (Bahia state). The other three are included in sect. Laxiflori. Lonchocarpus grazielae is restricted to the southern coastal region (Santa Catarina state), L. montanus is found in northeastern Brazil (Bahia and Piau states), the west-central region (Gois and Tocantins states) and the southeast (Minas Gerais state), and L. longiunguiculatus occurs in northeastern (Bahia state) and southeastern (Minas Gerais state) Brazil. /// Lonchocarpus castaneifolius, L. grazielae, L. longiunguiculatus e L. montanus do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas baseadas em estudos de campo e de herbrio. A primeira espcie pertence a Lonchocarpus sect. Punctati Benth. e est restrita  regio Nordeste (estado da Bahia), enquanto que as outras trs so includas em L. sect. Laxiflori, L. grazielae  exclusiva da costa da regio Sul (estado de Santa Catarina), L. montanus  encontrada nas regies Nordeste (estados da Bahia e Piau), Centro-Oeste (estados de Gois e Tocantins) e Sudeste (estado de Minas Gerais), e L. longiunguiculatus ocorre nas regies Nordeste (estado da Bahia) e Sudeste (estado de Minas Gerais).
2807467|Galipea granulosa from Nicaragua and adjacent Costa Rica is described and illustrated and its similarities to G. longiflora are discussed.
2807271|Coreopsis queretarensis, a new species from northeastern Mexico belonging to section Pseudoagarista, is described and illustrated. It is closely related to C. mcvaughii of Nueva Galicia but is readily distinguished by leaf shape, involucral bracts, and details of corolla.
2807041|A phylogenetic analysis of American cycad genera, all belonging to the family Zamiaceae, was attempted using chloroplast DNA restriction fragment polymorphisms. Ceratozamia mexicana Brongn., Chigua restrepoi D. Stevenson, Dioon edule Lindley, Microcycas calocoma (Miq.) A. DC., Zamia fischeri Miq., and Zamia skinneri Warsz. ex A. Dietrich were used as representatives of the genera. Cycas revoluta Thunb., belonging to the family Cycadaceae, was used as an outgroup, following previous morphological works. One hundred and forty-one shared restriction fragments were scored for presence/absence and both Wagner and Dollo parsimony analyses were performed. The single, fully resolved, most parsimonious trees obtained from the analyses were topologically identical and perfectly matched previous morphology-based phylogenetic hypotheses. Statistical evaluation of the data showed a good reliability for the obtained phylogeny. Dioon edule, belonging to a different subfamily and more primitive on morphological grounds, proved to be the most primitive among American cycads as inferred from the molecular data; Chigua restrepoi, never analyzed before on cladistic grounds, was found to be the sister group of the genus Zamia.
2806155|Houstonia sharpii and H. kingii are described from Mexico. The new combination H. xestosperma is proposed.
2666583|A new synthetic species, Cucumis hytivus J.-F. Chen & J. H. Kirkbr. (2n = 38), obtained by doubling the number of chromosomes in the sterile interspecific F
2806095|A new species, Haplopappus graniticus, is described and illustrated. Its relationships seemingly lie with section Tonestus but its narrow heads and imbricated phyllaries are anomalous in that section.
2806842|A new species, Cyananthus himalaicus from Gurjakhani, Nepal is described and illustrated, and its relationship with C. cordifolius and C. pedunculatus is discussed.
2805865|Abronia macrocarpa, a large-fruited species, is described as new. It is known only from a small sand dune area in Leon County, Texas.
40980934|Dalea gymonocodon is described from eastern Guerrero, Mexico. It is referred to Dalea subgenus Parosela series Pectinatae. Morphologically similar to Dalea escobilla, it differs by its leaf characters, with 26 pairs of leaflets, and by its greenish (drying pale greenish-yellow) flowers. Dalea gymnocodon es descrita de la parte oriental del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Pertenece al subgnero Parosela serie Pectinatae. Es morfolgicamente muy similar a Dalea escobilla, pero se distingue de sta por sus caracteres de hoja, con 2-6 pares de fololos, y por sus flores verdosas, tornndose verde-amarillento plido al secar.
30218803|Phylogenetic relationships within the genus Leucothoe s.l. (including all eight species) and related taxa of the Gaultherieae, Andromedeae, and Vaccinieae were investigated by a cladistic analysis based on phenotypic (external morphology, anatomy, chromosome number, and secondary chemistry) characters. The parsimony analysis resulted in two most parsimonious trees, both very similar, which show Leucothoe s1. to be polyphyletic, with its species distributed among three distinct clades. Our results indicate that L. racemosa and L. recurva form a strongly supported clade, which is sister to Chamaedaphne calyculata, and these three species are probably the sister-group of the wintergreen clade (consisting of Gaultheria and Diplycosia). Leucothoe axillaris, L. fontanesiana, L. davisiae, L. griffithiana, and L. keiskei, consistently form a monophyletic group corresponding to Leucothoe s.s., which is probably sister to the remaining members of the tribe Gaultherieae. Leucothoe grayana, the final species traditionally placed in the genus, belongs to neither of these clades and may be sister to Andromeda. Phenotypic characters provide no support for the monophyly of Leucothoe, instead suggesting that it is polyphyletic, in agreement with preliminary DNA-based analyses. Thus, we redefine the genus Leucothoe, placing its species into three genera: 1) Eubotrys (the E. racemosa + E. recurva clade), 2) Leucothoe s.s. (the L. axillaris + L. fontanesiana + L. davisiae + L. griffithiana + L. keiskei clade), and 3) Eubotrvoides (containing only E. grayana).
3218408| The new combination Adelia cinerea (basionym: Bernardia cinerea) is made. Notes on its distribution and ecology are provided, as well as a full morphological description. A discussion on the morphological and palynological distinctions between Adelia and Bernardia, and reasons for the transfer, are presented. The placement of this species in Adelia implies a tribal change (from Bernardieae to Adelieae) within subfamily Acalyphoideae. It brings the number of Mexican species of Adelia to six. /// [Spanish]Se propone la combinacin nueva Adelia cinerea (basnimo: Bernadia cinerea), proporcionndose la descripcin morfolgica completa del taxon, as como notas sobre la distribucon y ecologia. Se discuten las diferencias morfolgicas y palinolgicas entre Adelia y Bernardia que justifican la transferencia. La ubicacin de esta especie en Adelia implica un cambio de tribu, de Bernardieae a Adelieae, en la subfamilia Acalyphoideae. El nmero de especies mexicanas de Adelia se eleva a seis. 
2806571|Three new species of Couratari are described. Couratari scottmorii from San Bls, Panama and Costa Rica and C. asterotricha from southeastern Brazil are closely related to C. stellata and C. pyramidata. Couratari scottmorii is another example of the close relationship between the forests of Panama and those of the Guianas. Couratari sandwithii from Venezuela and Suriname belongs to the C. multiflora species complex.
2805856|A collection of 36 fungi cultivated by leaf-cutting ants has been established at The New York Botanical Garden. These fungi grow on a variety of natural media and on a synthetic medium with mineral salts, dextrose, casein hydrolysate, purine and pyrimidine bases and vitamins. Tests of the fungi for antibacterial activity were all negative against Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli. Only four isolates of ant fungi, each cultivated by a different species of ant, produced basidiocarps on oatmeal agar. Taxonomic studies indicate that these belong to the same species of fungus (Lepiota sp.). Eighteen isolates produced bromatia characteristic of the form species, Attamyces bromatificus Kreisel, one produced a mycelium with clamp connections, and thirteen produced sterile mycelia without clamped hyphae and without bromatia.
2805431|Minuartia glabra (Michx.) Mattfeld and M. uniflora (Walt.) Mattfeld are proposed as the proper taxonomic treatments of Arenaria glabra Michx. [A. groenlandica var. glabra (Michx.) Fern.] and Arenaria uniflora (Walt.) Muhl. respectively. A previously unreported species, Minuartia alabamensis is described as new. Minuartia alabamensis and M. uniflora are more closely related to one another than either is to M. glabra. Minuartia glabra is postulated to be derived from the Arcto-Tertiary flora, which invaded the Piedmont from the Appalachian Highlands. Minuartia alabamensis and M. uniflora are though to be relicts or species derived from the Madro-Tertiary flora, which invaded the Piedmont from the Southwestern United States and Mexican Highlands.
2805727|Five populations of Rhus integrifolia and R. ovata were studied and, based upon morphological characteristics and pollen viability, a number of putative hybrids were found in those areas where the two species are sympatric. Diagnostic characteristics most useful for distinguishing the species and their hybrids are leaf morphology, sepal pubescence, petiole length, and petal size. Introgression was evident in at least three populations, which suggested that hybridization between the two species is an ancient phenomenon. Evolutionarily, hybridization between the two taxa has probably been of little consequence.
2807320|Schoenobiblus suffruticosa and Schoenobiblus crassisepala, from the Parque Nacional "Henri Pittier" and adjacent montane forests, are described and illustrated.
30218821|Se describen los domacios presentes en nueve especies del gnero Mortoniodendron utilizando la tecnica de diafanizacin y el microscopio electrnico de barrido. En el gnero se observaron cuatro tipos de domacios: criptabolsa, cripta, bolsa y mnechn de tricomas, la mayora asociados a las venas primaria, secundarias y terciarias. Mortoniodendron anisophyllum y M. costaricense tienen domacios hasta las bifurcaciones de venas terciarias y cuaternarias. nicamente en dos especies, M. pentagonzm y M. uxpanapense, los domacios estn ausentes. A pesar de que se han registrado domacios en miembros de Malvaceae s.l., predominantemente en las subfamilias Brownlowioideae, Sterculioideae y Tilioideae; pocas veces se describe su tipo. Por ello, con base en los diferentes tipos de domacios encontrados en Mortoniodendron sugerimos estudiar otros gneros y confirmar la diversidad en Malvaceae s.l. /// We describe the domatia of nine species of the genus Mortoniodendron, based on observations of cleared leaves and scanning electron micrographs. We recognize four kinds of domatia in Mortoniodendron species: cryptpocket, crypt, pocket and tufts of hairs, mostly associated with primary, secondary and tertiary veins. Mortoniodendron anisophyllum and M. costaricense have domatia up to the tertiary and quaternary veins. Moreover, domatia are absent in only two species, M. pentagonum and M. uxpanapense. Although there are reports on the occurrence of domatia in Malvaceae s.l., mainly in Brownlowioideae, Sterculioideae, and Tilioideae subfamilies, they are poorly described, and based on the different types of domatia found in Mortoniodendron we suggest reviewing other genera to better describe the diversity of domatia in Malvaceae s.l.
2806811|Gaultheria steyermarkii Luteyn, from the isolated Cerro Turimiquire, Venezuela, is described, illustrated, and its relationships to G. buxifolia and G. anastomosans are discussed.
2807876|This paper reports the discovery of an unusual population of Syagrus cocoides Martius located in the municipality of Barra do Corda, state of Maranho, northeastern Brazil. The most interesting characteristic of this population is the high number of individuals with branched stems. Sampling showed that 16.12% of the population consisted of bifurcate adult individuals and 14.17% were bifurcate seedlings. The branching phenomenon in palms is reviewed, and competing hypotheses are discussed to explain the branching is Syagrus cocoides and its ecological and evolutionary significance. We conclude that the most likely type of branching is by dichotomy.
2805908|The following new taxa are recognized in Arceuthobium: subgenera Arceuthobium and Vaginata; sections Vaginata, Campylopoda, and Minuta; series Campylopoda, Rubra, and Stricta; species A. apachecum, A. californicum. A. guatemalense, A. hondurense, and A. pini; new formae speciales A. abietinum f.sp. concoloris A. abietinum f. sp. magnificae. New combinations: A. abietinum (Engelm.) Hawksworth & Wiens, and A. microcarpum (Engelm.) Hawksworth & Wiens.
2807692|Joosia comprises 11 species, three of which are here described as new: J. longisepala, J. multiflora, and J. obtusa. Joosia pulcherrima Steere is resurrected from synonymy. Joosia is a close relative of Cinchona, Ladenbergia, and Remijia, from all of which it differs in having wilting rather than caducous stipules, an inflorescence of predominantly monochasial cymes, and corolla lobes with marginal showy appendages. It occurs from western Panama along the Andes south to northern Bolivia, with a pronounced center of diversity in Ecuador. On the basis of a cladistic and biogeographical analysis, it is hypothesized that the genus originated in the lowland forest of the westernmost Amazon Basin.
2807197|Two species of Gesneriaceae are described: Alloplectus purpureus from the lower montane forests of northwestern Ecuador and adjacent Colombia and Columnea nematoloba from the lowland rain forests of western Colombia. The first with its fimbriate calyx lobes is probably nearest to Alloplectus sprucei, occurring in the same region but mostly at lower elevations. The second is in a group with two recently described species from western Ecuador and Colombia, Columnea fililoba adn C. incredibilis, all having filiform corolla lobes.
2805953|A new species, Thalictrum heliophilum, from exposed, shale talus of the Green River Formation in western Colorado where it is associated with a number of xerophytic taxa, is described. It differs from the common T. fendleri by its shorter stature, relatively small, coriaceous, glaucous leaves, and pistillate flowers with 4 or 5 (6) pistils.
2807301|Some problems among the neotropical members of the moss family Pterobryaceae are reviewed. Orthostichidium is synonymized with Hildebrandtiella, resulting in H. guyanensis (Mont.) Buck; and Orthostichopsis is reviewed for the New World with a new species, O. praetermissa, described.
2807517|An updated review of chromosome numbers in the Lecythidaceae is presented, which includes new counts for Gustavia angustifolia and Lecythis lanceolata (both with n = 17) and gives identifications to species for five previously published counts based on unidentified material. The earlier conclusion that the largely Asian Planchonioideae have x = 13, the African Napoleonaeoideae have x = 16, and the New World Lecythidoideae have x = 17 still holds. The new count of n = 21 for Asteranthos brasiliensis does not support the previous treatment of Asteranthos, a monotypic genus of the upper Amazon drainage, as the only New World representative of the otherwise tropical west African Napoleonaeoideae. Mounting evidence favors recognition of a monotypic family, the Asteranthaceae, of yet unclear relationships.
2805958|In compliance with the 1981 Sydney Code of Botanical Nomenclature, the combination Salvia dorrii var, incana (Benth.) Strachan is made for what has previously been called S. dorrii var. carnosa (Greene) Cronq.
2805938|On the basis of morphological, hybridization, genetic, and field studies, it is proposed that Coreopsis saxicola Alex. be reduced to varietal rank as C. grandiflora var. saxicola.
2807831|The Antennaria media polyploid species complex has been evaluated, at least in part, on numerous occasions without consensus on either the taxa that should be included within the complex or the rank at which these taxa should be recognized. The primary purpose of this quantitative, multivariate, phenetic study is to propose a taxonomy for the polyploid species complex that not only is independent of a knowledge of either chromosome number or reproductive biology but that concurrently minimally reflects morphological variation associated with each. The use of canonical discriminant analysis facilitates this purpose. In an attempt to maintain consistency with other recent revisions of polyploid complexes within the genus, the rank of subspecies (A. media subsp. media, A. media subsp. ciliata, A. media subsp. compacta, A. media subsp. fusca, and A. media subsp. pulchella) is selected as the infraspecific rank that satisfies the purpose of the phenetic study and is supported by the analyses. These subspecies differ to varying degrees with respect to reproductive characters (corolla length, pappus length) vegetative-reproductive characters (involucre length, peduncle length, cauline leaf length, cauline leaf width), and vegetative characters (basal leaf length and basal leaf width). Antennaria media subsp. pulchella is a sexaully reproducing, diploid subspecies, whereas the remaining four subspecies are essentially agamospermous polyploids.
2666601|The paleobiogeography of the extant leptosporangiate fern families present in the Mesozoic is reviewed based mainly on data from megafossils that possess enough characters to be assigned to a family. Times of first appearances are discussed for each family, followed by their distribution throughout the Mesozoic. Paleolatitudes and climatic conditions indicate that first appearances of many fern families occur about or above 30
2805489|The predominantly allopatric species of the genus Picradeniopsis, P. oppositifolia and P. woodhousei, are distinct in morphological, in phenolic and terpeniod chemical, and in cytological aspects (n = 24 and n = 12, respectively). In an area of sympatry in northeastern New Mexico, interbreeding occurs frequently with the production of morphologically intermediate hybrids. Morphological and phenolic chemical data from 191 plants in 40 isolated parental populations and from 91 plants in four hybrid populations are of limited value in determining the nature of this hybridization, but meiotic configurations of &12_1& and &12_2$ and low pollen viabilities of 1-11% in the hybrids indicate that they are all of the &F_1$ generation (with one possible backcross). The absense of observed introgression, and therefore the absence of gene flow between the two taxa, strengthens the case for taxonomic recognition of two species in the genus. Comparisons of the morphology, phenolic and terpenoid chemistry, and cytology of parents and $F_1$ hybrids suggest that the tetraploid, P. oppositifolia, has arisen by allopolyploidy from a cross between P. woodhousei and an unknown diploid species. An extrapolated morphological and chemical reconstruction of this putative diploid parent is advanced.
2807715|Two new species of the genus Davilla from Brazil are described and illustrated (D. kubitzkii and D. morii). The new species are assigned to sect. Homalochlaena and their relationships with allied species are discussed.
40648244|The genus Zamia is revised for Mega-Mexico, with 22 species recognized and described. The study presents a taxonomic clarification for the genus in Mesoamerica, a contribution that provides the foundation for a future monograph for Zamia in the Neotropics. The largest proportion of species richness and endemism for the genus is concentrated in southeastern Mexico, among the states of Chiapas, Oaxaca, Tabasco, and Veracruz, an area that is considered highly diverse in floristic terms. Distribution maps and a key to species are also provided, as well as complete descriptions of the specimens examined, including information on nomenclatural types, habitats, synonymies, and etymologies. A lectotype is designated for Zamia loddigesii, and neotypes for Z. galeottii, Z. leiboldii var. angustifolia, and Z. variegata. Zamia spartea is illustrated for the first time, and chromosome numbers for Z herrerae are reported and illustrated. Finally, scanning electron micrographs of leaflet trichome character states are presented, along with a discussion of their systematic implications within the group. El gnero Zamia es revisado para Mega-Mxico, con 22 especies descritas y una species dubia. El estudio est orientado al esclarecimiento taxonmico del gnero en Mega-Mxico, una contribucin que siente los fundamentos para una futura monografa para Zamia en el Neotrpico. La mayor riqueza y endemismo para el gnero se concentra en el sureste de Mxico, entre los estados de Chiapas, Oaxaca, Tabasco y Veracruz, rea de alta biodiversidad florstica. Mapas de distribucin y una clave para las especies son presentadas, como tambin descripciones completas, tipos, habitat, sinnimos, etimologa y especmenes examinadas. Se designa un lectotipo para Zamia loddigesii, y neotipos para Z. galeottii, Z. leiboldii var. angustifolia y Z. variegata. Zamia spartea es ilustrada por primera vez y nmeros cromosmicos para Z herrerae son presentados. Finalmente, se presentan fotografas de tricomas al microscopio electrnico y una discusin de sus implicaciones en la sistemtica del grupo.
2807518| Three new species of Ternstroemia are described and illustrated. Two of these, Ternstroemia aracae and T. prancei, are high-elevation taxa endemic to Serra Arac, Brazil. The third, T. campinicola, is a low-elevation, widespread species restricted to white-sand savannas in the Brazilian, Venezuelan, and Colombian Guayana. 
4497328|Ornithocephalus aristatus, a new species from Panama, is described and illustrated. Among the species of the genus Ornithocephalus, it can be distinguished by the nonresupinate flowers, the sepals each provided with a flexuous awn half as long as the sepal itself, the porrect petals with revolute margins, the hastate lip with triangular-ovate, erose lateral lobes, the linear, acute midlobe, conduplicate and subreflexed at apex, and the disc with a bilobed, obreniform callus provided with a conical tuft of stiff hairs. A key to the species of Ornithocephalus from Panama is provided.
2805855|Nomenclatural innovations are validated in Aster, Chrysopsis, Eupatorium, Gaillardia, Helianthus, Prenanthes, Silphium, and Solidago. The genus Chrysopsis is maintained as distinct from Heterotheca, and Helianthus smithii Heiser is reduced to synonymy under H. microcephalus Torr. & Gray.
2806621|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine foliar surface features such as trichome types and the micro-relief formed by cell contours, cuticular patterns, and epicuticular wax in the genus Carya. The fourteen taxa native to Mexico and eastern United States were sampled throughout their geographical ranges, and are represented here by specimens that include segregate taxa, interspecific hybrids, and mature and immature leaves of each. Six trichome types are recognized in this survey: acicular, fasciculate, multiradiate, solitary, capitate-glandular, and peltate scale. There are no consistent differences between representatives of either the two Sections of the genus or the two ploidy levels. Although there is significant inter-and intra-specific variation, the use of scanning electron microscopy provides few taxonomically useful characters or character-states beyond those already those already available through light microscopy. Foliar surfaces of the fourteen taxa and three hybrids are illustrated.
2806602|The importance of a cladistic approach in reconstructing the phylogeny of bryophytes is discussed and illustrated by an analysis of the major groups of bryophytes with respect to the tracheophytes and the green algae. The cladistic analysis, using 51 characters taken from the literature, gives the following tentative results: (1) the embryophytes as a whole are monophyletic; (2) the bryophytes (sensu lato) are paraphyletic; (3) the mosses share a more recent common ancestor with the tracheophytes than do the liverworts or hornworts; (4) the hornworts appear to share a more recent common ancestor with the moss-tracheophyte lineage than with the liverworts; however, the existence of several homoplasies makes this placement more problematical; (5) the origin of alternation of generations in the embryophytes, based on out-group comparison with their oogamous, haplontic, algal sister groups, was by progressive elaboration of the primitively epiphytic sporophyte generation; and (6) the presence of vascular tissue (xylem and phloem) can best be interpreted as a synapomorphy of the moss-tracheophyte clade, and tracheids (xylem with ornamented walls) as a synapomorphy of the tracheophytes; therefore, the prevailing designation of "vascular plants" for the tracheophytes alone is inaccurate.
2805463|Evidence of natural hybridization between Arctostaphylos viscida and A. canescens in southwestern Oregon was obtained from morphological studies of field populations. Hybridization occurs where populations of A. viscida and A. canescens meet in areas where serpentine and nonserpentine soils abut. At these contacts, A. viscida forms large populations only on serpentine and A. canescens only on nonserpentine. Most of the indentifiable hybrids survive on either transitional or nonserpentine soils. The small proportion that are found on serpentine are considered to be backcrosses to A. viscida. The hybrid plants are similar to several putative species maintained in the standard floras, and it is suggested that these no longer be given taxonomic recognition.
2807463|Arthrostemma primaevum, a new species endemic to southeastern Mexico, is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest extant relative, A. ciliatum. The chromosome count of n = 15, reported here for A. primaevum, suggests that A. ciliatum, with n = 30, is a tetraploid derivative with a much broader geographic and elevational range. In addition to its distinctive unlobed staminal appendages and unique chromosome number, A. primaevum is notable for its shorter, urceolate hypanthium and seeds that have essentially smooth continuous semicircular ridges.
2807817|Ayenia saligna from Colombia is described and illustrated. It is remarkable for having foliar nectaries, which now are known to occur in seven of the 75-80 species in the genus. The petals of Ayenia are structurally complex and the inconsistent use of terminology to describe their parts is noted. In addition, the relationship of A. saligna to other species of Ayenia is discussed.
3218535| This article provides descriptions of Quercus hirtifolia, a new oak species endemic to eastern Mexico, and of Q. depressa, a species poorly characterized in the literature. Due to the morphological resemblance of Q. hirtifolia to Q. hintoniorum, Q. hypoxantha, Q. eduardii, Q. laurina, and Q. depressa, a dichotomous key for their identification is provided. /// [Spanish] En este artculo se describe Quercus hirtifolia, una especie nueva de encino endmica al Este de Mxico, y Q. depressa, una especie que no ha sido descrita adecuadamente en la literatura. Debido a la similitud morfolgica de Q. hirtifolia con Q. hintoniorum, Q. hypoxantha, Q. eduardii, Q. laurina y Q. depressa, se presenta una clave dicotmica para su identificacin. 
30218765|A new species of Securidaca was found during the preparation of the Polygalaceae treatment for the Nuevo Catlogo de la Flora de Venezuela. Securidaca fundacionensis, from La Fundacin, in the Venezuelan Andes, is described, illustrated, and its morphological relationship with an allied species is discussed. This new species is similar to S. uniflora, but it differs by its terete branches; broadly ovate leaves; larger petioles, flowers, fruits; and flabellate-crested keel (abaxial) petal. An updated key to the 27 Venezuelan species of Securidaca is presented, and phytogeographical information about La Fundacin is provided. /// Una nueva especie del gnero Securidaca fue encontrada durante la elaboracin del tratamiento de la familia Polygalaceae para el Nuevo Catlogo de la Flora de Venezuela. Securidaca fundacionensis, del sector La Fundacin, estado Tchira, Andes de Venezuela, es descrita, ilustrada y sus relaciones morfolgicas con su especie afn son discutidas. S. fundacionensis es similar a S. uniflora, sin embargo, difiere de esta especie por poseer las ramas teretes; las hojas ampliamente ovadas; los pecolos, las flores, y los frutos ms grandes; y la quilla (el ptalo inferior) con una cresta flabelada. Se presenta una clave actualizada para diferenciar las 27 especies del gnero Securidaca presentes en Venezuela y informacin general acerca la fitogeografa del sector La Fundacin.
2805657|The Artemisia ludoviciana complex of the Northwest is considered to be an intervarietal autoploid complex on the basis of evidence obtained from cytogenetic analysis. The evidence includes the occurrence of chromosomal races within all but two of the inclusive taxa, the degree and constancy of multivalent formation in the polyploid races, and the high degree of homology among the genomes of the various taxa as demonstrated by the pairing relationships in the $F_1$ progeny. Both triploid and tetraploid progeny were produced in diploid-tetraploid crosses, and tetraploid offspring were fully as fertile as the natural tetraploids. The triploids, on the other hand, produced very few viable pollen grains. The production of tetraploid offspring in interracial crosses could provide a mechanism for gene flow from the diploid to the tetraploid population. With the observation of both diploid and tetraploid populations of A. douglasiana, in addition to the well-known hexaploid, a reasonable doubt is cast upon the putative amphidiploid origin of the hexaploid via hybridization between A. suksdorfii and A. ludoviciana.
2806398|Three new species, Pourouma saulensis C. C. Berg & F. Kooy, P. stipulacea C. C. Berg, and P. bolivarensis C. C. Berg, are described and illustrated.
2807355|Fourteen new species of Solanum section Geminata are described and illustrated. Eight of these, S. erosomarginatum, S. foetens, S. lasiocladum, S. lucens, S. ombrophilum, S. tanysepalum, S. tenuiflagellatum, and S. turgidum are from Venezuela. Solanum cucullatum and S. bellum are from Ecuador S. abitaguense from Ecuador and northeastern Peru, S. amnicola and S. yanamonense from eastern Peru, and S. mapiricum from eastern Bolivia. Relationships of each of the species to others in its geographical area are discussed. Chromosome numbers are reported for ten of these new species.
2806243|Eucrosia dodsonii is described from Ecuador and Leperiza eucrosioides Baker is combined with Eucrosia as E. brachyandra.
2805615|Twently-five yellow-flowered species of Linum are found in western North America and Central America. These are divided into two unranked subgeneric groups, the "L. schiedeanum" and the "L. rigidum" complexes. The former encompasses the species believed to be most primitive in North America. The greatest density and diversity of taxa of this segment of the genus are in east-central Mexico and point to that region as the probable area of establishment and differentiation of the yellow-flowered species in North America. The L. rigidum complex includes the most highly specialized of the North America species and is believed to have been derived from some member of the L. schiedeanum group in comparatively recent times. The intermediate position of L. sulcatum, a widespread North American species is discussed. Keys to, descriptions, and distribution maps of all the species are included.
2806600|Chaptalia dentata (L.) Cass. and C. albicans (Sw.) Vent. ex Steudel incorrectly have been recognized as conspecific in recent treatments. Although they are vegetatively similar, they differ in features of the flowers and fruits-especially the mature achenes. Both species occur in the Bahamas and the Greater Antilles of the West Indies: Chaptalia dentata is endemic to that area, absent only from Jamaica; C. albicans is more widespread, as it occurs in Jamaica as well as in scattered localities on the American mainland-southern Florida, various localities in Belize, Honduras, and Guatemala, and the Mexican states of Veracruz, San Luis Potosi, Chiapas, and Yucatan.
3218338|Nevada holmgrenii was originally described by Rollins as a Smelowskia, but based on phenetic similarities it appears to be more closely related to the arctic/alpine genera Braya and Eutrema. It is, however, sufficiently distinct from these genera to be placed in a monotypic genus, Nevada.
2806829|The diverse inflorescence morphology of species in the Pithecellobium-complex is shown to be a result of: 1) the organization of the components of the inflorescence and their relative positions; 2) the hierarchical relationship of the axes of the inflorescences and the position they assume in total tree architecture; and 3) heterochronic development of the components of the inflorescence. It is shown that the typological system of nomenclature of inflorescence leads to false assumptions of homology and therefore must be discarded. The morphology of inflorescences is duscussed in terms of metamerism, and the term Repeating Growth Unit (RGU) is introduced an is defined as the smallest complete sequence of metamers produced by a meristem. A module is defined as the sequence of RGUs produced by a meristem. An inflorescence is defined as that sequence of metamers in an RGU which participates in the production and/or presentation of flowers and fruit. Heterochrony, proleptic and sylleptic buds, and shoot dimorphism are discussed and their role in modifying inflorescence morphology in the Pithecellobium-complex is illustrated. Examples from the Pithecellobium-complex are provided which demonstrate the various modifications of the inflorescence that result from the interaction of these various phenomena.
2805485|A crossing program was carried out between the Kauai endemic B. forbesii and six other Polynesian species, five of which are Hawaiian and one Marquesan. All crosses produced vigorous $F_1$ hybrids, portraying a strong genetic relationship between B. forbesii and the other species. Ther results indicate a close systematic relationship among the Polynesian species of Bidens placed by Sherff in sect. Campylotheca and strenghen the argument that this group dispersed from North America to the Hawaiian Islands, then from Hawaii to the Marquesas Islands.
2805611|A Hedyotis from the Ouachita Mountain region of Arkansas and Oklahoma is superficially similar to H. longifolia (Gaertn.) Hook., but differs consistently in pubesecence of the inner corolla and pubescence of the lower stem. It occupies a different habitat and apparently does not hybridize with H. longifolia var. longifolia when the two occur in close proximity. It is described as H. ousachitana.
2807881|The taxonomic history of Anthopterus as it relates to Themistoclesia is briefly reviewed. Anthopterus is redefined to include several species formerly placed in Themistoclesia. Two subgenera are established within Anthopterus. Anthopterus costaricensis Luteyn is described as new, and the new combination Anthopterus pterotus (A. C. Sm.) Luteyn is made. A key to the genus, a list of the species currently accepted, and brief notes on distribution and frequency are provided. Most species of Anthopterus are rare and their habitats are endangered.
2806619|A general outline of the geographical, geological, pedological, and climatic conditions of the Sierra Parima is followed by a description of the natural vegetation in the Venezuelan and Brazilian sections of this mountain range, based on the collections and field experience gathered by the authors during the last 15 years. Special attention is devoted to the savanna vegetation of this upland region, and an attempt is made to explain these non-forest vegetation types from an ecological-historical standpoint. Finally, the possible ecological impact of the autochthonous Yanoama populations on the forest and savanna ecosystems of the Sierra Parima is discussed in the light of data from recent anthropological research.
2805800|The chemical compositions of plant fossils having trimerophyte (Pertica, Psilophyton princeps, P. cf. forbesii), rhyniophyte (Taeniocrada), and zosterophyll (Sawdonia) morphological characteristic are chemically analyzed and chemotaxonomically related to vascular (? Eohostimella, Renalia, Chaleuria) and putative non-vascular plant fossils (Botryococcus,Parka, Pachytheca, Prototaxites, Nematothallus, Spongiophyton, Protosalvinia, Orestovia) whose taxonomic affinities are unknown or speculative. Separation of the material examined into clusters representing higher taxa (i. e., algal, nonalgal, trimerophyte, rhyniophyte zosterophyll plant groupings) is effected by the weighting of chemical data during cluster analyses. The weighting of phenolic and monohydroxicarboxylix acid constituents is show to cluster vascular plant material, while the criteria of carbon chainlength ranges and maxima separte vascular from non-vascular plant fossils. Multivariate analysis of the data, using chemical and geological factors, results in the clustering of four groups: (1) Botryococcus, Parka, Pachytheca, (2) Spongiophyton, Prototaxites, Nematothallus, Orestovia, (3) Eohostimella, Taeniocrada, Renalia, and (4) Psilophyton spp., Pertica Chaleuria. Sawdonia and Protosalvinia appear as data points showing no observable affinity with any of the obove fossils. Protosalvinia, Renalia, and Chaleuria are interpreted as being chemotaxonomically intermediate. These data are interpreted as indicating taxonomic affinities on a very broad scale; possible evolutionary trends in specific chemical compounds, as they relate to vascular and non-vascular plant geochemistry, are discussed.
2806442|Eschweilera tetrapetala Mori and E. alvimii Mori are described and compared with E. compressa (Vellozo) Miers, the only other species of this genus known to have four petals. It is concluded that this small group of species probably evolved from a common ancestor whose range was fragmented by climatic and vegetational changes in the Pleistocene. The distributions of E. compressa and E. alvimii support the hypothesis that moist forest refuges existed around Rio de Janeiro and southern Bahia/northern Espirito Santo throughout the Pleistocene.
2806089|Preliminary to a second edition of Checklist of the Leguminosae of Bahia by G. P. Lewis (K), 15 new species and seven new varieties of Mimosa are described, and nine new nomenclatural combinations are proposed. The relationship of each new entity is considered; 16 are illustrated. Some special terms adapted to the description of Mimosa are defined.
2805469|Experimental hybridizations between Triodanis biflora (Ruiz & Pavon) Greene and T. perfoliata (L.) Nieuwland result in vigorous offspring in the $F_1$ and $F_2$ generations as well as in backcrosses. Field studies of natural populations indicate a gradient between the two taxa with many individuals resembling the experimental hybrids. A partial isolating mechanism due to cleistogamy in T. biflora enables plants of that morph to be easily identified. Triodanis biflora is reduced to T. perfoliata var. biflora (Ruiz & Pavon) Bradley, comb. nov.
3218384| Opuntia megarrhiza Rose (Cactaceae) is a species endemic to central San Luis Potos, Mexico that, since originally described in 1906, has remained poorly understood. A comprehensive morphological description is presented and its presumed taxonomic affinity with O. chaffeyi is discussed. General accounts of its distribution, ecology, uses, and conservation status are presented. ///[Mexican]Opuntia iegarrhiza Rose (Cactaceae) es una especie endmica de la porcin central de San Luis Potos, Mexico, que, desde que fue descrita originalmente en 1906, ha permanecido pobremente entendida. Se presenta una descripcin morfolgica detallada y se discuten sus supuestas afinidades taxonmicas con O. chaffeyi. Se delinean algunos datos sobre su distribucin, ecologa, usos y estado de conservacin. 
3218414| Two new species of oak (Fagaceae) with narrowly ellipticlanceolate leaves from the Sierra Madre del Sur of western Jalisco, Mexico, are described and illustrated. Quercus cualensis is a local endemic and Q. iltisii a more widespread species; they are closely related to Q. salicifolia Ne. 
2807471|A new variety from the eastern Great Basin of western U.S.A., Glossopetalon spinescens var. microphyllum (Crossosomataceae), is described and illustrated, and its relationship within the species is indicated by a key. The name Glossopetalon A. Gray is used rather than the substitute Forsellesia Greene, because there is little chance of confusion with the earlier name Glossopetalum Schreber, which was illegitimately published and remains obscure.
2806536|Malpighia romeroana var. nayaritensis is described from Nayarit, Mexico, and M. albiflora subsp. antillana and M. nummulariifolia subsp. oblongifolia from the West Indies.
2807553|The circumscription of the A. neodioica polyploid complex to include A. howellii as a subspecies necessitates a change in the name of the complex to the A. howelii polyploid complex. The A. howellii species complex contains four subspecific taxa, requiring three new combinations, Antennaria howellii subsp. canadensis (Greene) Bayer, A. howellii subsp. neodioica (Greene) Bayer, and A. howellii subsp. petaloidea (Fern.) Bayer.
2807235|The Wabash College Herbarium (WAB), Crawfordsville, Indiana, was donated to The New York Botanical Garden (NY) in 1987. Brief sketches of those who shaped the Wabash College Herbarium, including Albert Reiff Bechtel and Aris Berkeley Donaldson, are presented; photographs of Bechtel and Donaldson are provided. Collectors represented in WAB are listed including the localities and years of the collections and the total number of specimens contributed.
41406762|Se describe y se ilustra Pecluma sanctae-mariae, una nueva especie de los Andes de Colombia. Se cambia el estatus de Pecluma ptilota var. bourgeauana y se designa su lectotipo. A new species, Pecluma sanctae-mariae, is described and illustrated from the Andes of Colombia. The status of Pecluma ptilota var. bourgeauana is changed and its lectotype is designated.
2805957|Coreopsis californica var. newberryi, a new variety, differing from typical material of C. californica in achene morphology, is proposed. Achene spotting in the two varieties exhibits maternal inheritance.
2807395|The author citation for the combination Aster section Biotia is corrected to: DC. ex Torrey & Gray.
3218507| Three new species of Thelypteris are described and illustrated: T. littoralis and T. paranaensis, endemic to the rainforest of the southern Brazilian Atlantic coast, and T. multigemmifera, endemic to inland gallery forests of the So Paulo state. In addition, four new combinations are made: T. cutiataensis (Brade) Salino, T. iguapensis (C. Chr.) Salino, T. monosora (C. Presl) Salino, and T. schwackeana (H. Christ in C. Chr.) Salino. A new name is proposed for Dryopteris lugubris var. quadrangularis: T. montana Salino. The species treated here belong to Thelypteris subg. Goniopteris due to the indument of furcate and stellate trichomes. 
2666511|Mercranium juddii is described and illustrated. It is known only from 1650-1700 m elevation in the Ravine du Sud on the northern slopes of Morne Formon in Macaya National Park, Haiti. Mecranium juddii is a member of the M. multiflorum complex and is phenetically most similar to M. revolutum and M. alpestre, which differ from M. juddii in stem indumentum or leaf size and shape.
2806969| A new hybrid palm, x Attabignya minarum, from the Rio So Francisco Valley of Minas Gerais, Brazil is described. It is a natural hybrid between Attalea compta Mart. and Orbignya oleifera Burret and is quite common in the area studied. Most of the morphological characters of the hybrid are intermediate between those of the parent species. A notable exception is the number of fruits produced; x Attabignya minarum produces more fruits per panicle than either parent species. This is the first report of hybridization between Orbignya and Attalea and may shed light on the status of Orbignya, considered by some to be synonymous with Attalea. 
2806380|The glandular nature of the "seed coat" has long been the most important taxonomic character defining the genus Campomanesia. It is shown here that the structure, which has been taken for the "seed coat," is actually the locular wall. The development of the ovaries and seeds of Campomanesia is discussed and illustrated. Three characteristics of Campomanesia are identified as distinguishing it from other genera of the Myrtaceae: (1) the abortion of all but one ovule in each fertile locule; (2) the protective, glandular locular wall that serves as a false seed coat; and (3) the large number of locules in the ovaries. Reasoning is presented to explain the possible sequence of evolutionary origin of these three characteristics.
2806157|A new species of herbaceous bambusoid grass, Lithachne humilis, is described from Honduras and compared with the three other species known in the genus. As in many other grasses of this alliance, the leaves of L. humilis exhibit so-called "sleep movements" at night. The diurnal and nocturnal positions of its leaves are compared to those of Strephium distichophyllum. The leaves of the new species and of two of the others in Lithachne hang down vertically at night, while those of Strephium fold upward, which is the usual position assumed by leaves of bambusoid grasses during the night.
4497346| Alcantarea turgida and A. tortuosa are described and illustrated as new species from southeastern Brazil. The relationships of A. turgida with A. extensa and with A. vinicolor and of A. tortuosa with A. farneyi and with A. benzingii are discussed. /// Alcantarea turgida e A. tortuosa so descritas e ilustradas como novas espcies do Sudeste do Brasil. Os relacionamentos de A. turgida com A. extensa e com A. vinicolor e os de A. tortuosa com A. farneyi e com A. benzingii so discutidos. 
2807101|A new genus, Votschia, based on Jacquina nemophila Pittier, is described and the new combination Votschia nemophila (Pittier) Stahl is made. The genus is known only from a small coastal area in northeastern Panama. It resembles Jacquinia in having flattened, petaloid staminodes and Deherainia in leaf morphology and corolla shape, but differs from both these genera in having the pollen exine fossulate-foveolate and the petiolar vascular bundles arranged in a circle. The two last-mentioned features are similar to conditions present in the three remaining genera of the family, Theophrasta, Neomezia, and Clavija. Votschia differs from all other Theophrastaceae in its papillose young shoots and by having the abaxial leaf sclerenchyma arranged in a layer rather than in bundles.
2805487| Harpalyce parvifolia and H. robusta, endemic species from the Serra do Espinhao, State of Minas Gerias, and Chapada dos Veadeiros, State of Gois, respectively, are described and included in a new key to the Brazilian members of the genus. 
2805777|A New key is provided to the North American species of sect. Gardoquia; two varieties are recognized in the widespread Mexican species S. macrostema; and S. jaliscana, a species associated with barranca-forests in Jalisco, Mexico, is described as new.
3218540|Ossaea alloeotricha, described by Urban on the basis of material with very immature flowers, has been re-collected (in flower and fruit) in the cloud forests and moist forests dominated by Pinus occidentalis in the vicinity of Pic le Ciel, 2150 m, on Morne Formon of the Massif de la Hotte (western group), Haiti, The mature flowers of this species have broadly elliptic to suborbicular petals with rounded, asymmetrically notched apices, clearly indicating a placement in Miconia, not Ossaea or Leandra (which have acute to acuminate petals); the species is here transferred to Miconia (sect. Cremanium). Miconia alloeotricha is provided with an expanded description and compared with M. desportesii, M. monciona, M. sphagnicola, and M. tetrandra, the other species of Miconia sect. Cremanium occurring in Hispaniola (Dominican Republic and Haiti), and with the phenetically similar M. acuminata (sect. Chaenopleura), with which it occurs in the moist forests near and at the peak of Morne Formon. With the transfer of Ossaea alloeotricha to Miconia, we estimate that 58 species of Miconia occur on Hispaniola.
2806736|Two new species are described and ten new combinations are made.
2807458|Notes that augment an earlier essay on R. S. Williams' botanical activities and the distribution of his collections from Bolivia and Peru are presented. Twelve species based on Williams' vascular plant collections are added to a catalog that was previously published. Synonymies of an additional 22 taxa are corrected or updated. Notes also are provided concerning the typification or orthography of two species.
4099003| Remijia hubbardiorum B. M. Boom, endemic to white sand campinas or terra firme forest in the Rio Uatum region in the State of Amazonas of north central Brazil, is described and illustrated, and its morphological differentiation with respect to R. asperula Standley is discussed. 
30218795|Drymaria jenniferae is proposed as a new species. It appears to be related to the group "Arenarioides" by the nature of the indumentum and the 2-8 lobed petals, but differs by its petals with four equal lobes, with the trunk (blade-like portion below lobes and above the basal claw) of each petal widened at the base. The species is notable for the absence of stipules, the cateniform trichomes, and the tuberculate seeds. A description, an illustration, and a key are provided. /// Drymaria jenniferae es propuesta como especie nueva. Al parecer esta relacionada con el grupo "Arenarioides" por el tipo de indumento y los ptalos 2-8-lobados, pero difiere por presentar ptalos con cuatro lbulos y el tronco con la base ensanchada. La especie es notable por la ausencia de estpulas, por los tricomas en forma de cadena y la semilla tuberculada. Se incluye una descripcin, una ilustracin y una clave.
2807102|The genus Zollernia is represented in the state of Bahia by four species, two of which, Z. magnifica and Z. modesta, are described and figured herein. A key to the species known from Bahia and commentary on the new taxa are provided.
2805751|Chromosome numbers are reported for Eleocharis obtusa var. ellipsoidalis (2n=10), E. obtusa var. peasei (2n=10), E. engelmannii (2n=10), E. olivacea f. olivacea (2n=20), E. olivacea f. reductiseta (2n=20), E. flavescens (2n=30, E. tenuis var. verrucosa (2n=20) E. tenuis var. tenuis var. pseudoptera (2n=39), a possible hybrid between E. tenuis var. pseudoptera and var. tenuis (2n=ca. 34 & 68), E. ingtermedia (2n=46). Noticeable chromosome size differences in E. tenuis, E. smallii, and E. ambiges are consistent with size differences previously reported by other authors. Variable meiotic pairing configurations were observed in E. flavescens, E. intermedia, and E. tenuis. Chromoseme data help verify taxonomic relationships of some taxa and indicate the need for further investigation of others.
2806130|As presently known, the genus Sophonoglossa can be divided into two "subgenera," one of which is here divided into two sections, Pentaloba and Siphonoglossa. Two new species are described from a locality in Durango, Mexico: S. durangensis in sect. Siphonoglossa and S. linearifolia in sect. Pentaloba. Three other species are transferred into Siphonoglossa: S. canbyi from northeastern Mexico; S. buchii from Haiti and the Dominican Republic and S. incerta from southern Baja California, Mexico.
2805922|Monochaetum talamancense is described from the Cordillera de Talamanca, Costa Rica. It is compared to M. macrantherum Gleason, a species to which the few previous collections have been attributed. Its diffuse, sprawling habit, smooth-appressed cauline and hypanthial trichomes, adn tightly cochleate, smooth seeds mark M. talamancense as unique among Mexican and Central American Species.
2806843|The new ascomyceted Hypomyces succineus, Podostroma eperuae, and Nectria phialotrichi are proposed. Hypomyces succineus occurs on basidiomata of Pholiota sp. in New York; its anamorph is described as the new species Cladobotryum succineum. Podostroma eperuae occurs on decaying pods of a species of Eperua found in French Guiana and Guyana. Its anamorph is unknown. Nectria phialotrichi occurs on perithecia of Nectria sp. and bark in Guyana; its anamorph is referred to the anamorph genus Onychophora.
2807371|Astragalus chuskanus Barneby & Spellenberg, a new species of ser. Humistratae, is described, figured, discussed, and inserted into current monographic keys to the genus.
41406767|Podandrogyne chocoensis and Podandrogyne caucana, two new species of Cleomaceae from western Colombia and eastern Panama, are described and illustrated. In view of their probable relationship to each other, but somewhat isolated position with respect to the majority of species of Podandrogyne, the new subsection Breviracemosae is proposed.
2807425|Hexastylis rhombiformis, a new species from the North Fork of the French Broad River in Transylvania County, North Carolina, is described and illustrated. It can be separated from other species of Hexastylis by the distinctive shape of its flower (rhombic-ovate) and by the ridged reticulation of unusually high relief (1-2 mm) on the lower inside wall of the flower. Its distribution, relationship to other species of Hexastylis, and origin are discussed.
2807129| A Mimosa remarkable for the combination of spicate inflorescences and non-articulate pods is described from the south-western part of the state of Mxico and figured; its known distribution is given and its relationships discussed; diagnostic characters of known sympatric species of Mimosa are listed. 
2806532|Morphological variation was analyzed in the endangered Betula uber and sympatric dark-barked tree briches, B. lenta and B. alleghaniensis, to determine the extent of differences among the three taxa. Univariate and multivariate analyses of leaf and fruit characters indicated that the three taxa are morphologically distinct, that B. uber is more similar to B. lenta than to B. alleghaniensis, that intermediates between B. uber and B. lenta do not occur, and that leaves are necessary for absolute separation of B. uber from B. lenta because of overlap of fruit characters. Field observations of the bark indicate no differences between B. uber and B. lenta while those of growth form suggest that B. uber may have a more compact crown than B. lenta. The evidence presented here supports an alliance of B. uber with the dark-barked tree birches (series Costatae).
2805565|The 16 species of Melastomataceae restricted to the middle and upper slopes of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Colombia, are listed. Included are seven previsously undescribed species: Graffenrieda santamartensis, Miconia insueta, Miconia oreogena, Micnia tricaudata, Huileae kirkbridei, Kirkbridea tetramera, Kirkbridea pentamera. The newly described genus Kirkbridea is placed in the tribe Miconieae.
30218775|A new species, Akrosida floribunda, is described from the Dominican Republic. This arborescent genus is now known from two species, the other being Akrosida macrophylla, from Brazil. Both have very limited distributions. /// Se describe la especie nueva Akrosida floribunda de la Repblica Dominicana. Este gnero arborescente actualmente se conoce de dos especies, la otra Akrosida macrophylla de Brasil. Las dos tienen distribuciones que son bien restringidas.
2805546|A survey of seed protein profiles in P. pilosa revealed three bands in addition to the typical complement in northern Illinois and Indiana populations. One of the novel proteins has the same (fast) migration velocity as a protein in the standard complement of P. glaberrima. Both of these proteins hybridize with one of the standard P. pilosa proteins to produce two additional bands. The fast protein varies in frequenty between populations and is most prevalent in areas where there is the greatest potential for hybridization with P. glaberrima. These data suggest that the fast band of P. pilosa may have been introduced from P. glaberrima despite strong incompatibility barriers, and increased in frequency through selective accumulation.
2806153|A key to the seven species of the South American genus Modiolastrum is presented. In addition, variation within the genus and the relationship between Modiola and Modiolastrum are briefly discussed. The new combination Modiolastrum sandemanii is proposed, based on Malvastrum sandemanii Sandwith.
2805797| A mixed population involving Declieuxia fructicosa (Willd. ex R. & S.) O. Kuntze, D. passerina Mart. & Zucc. ex schult. & Schult., and a third morphologically variable group of plants of Declieuxia was encountered on Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil. An analysis was made of dried, individual plants of the population using the following techniques: construction of a hybrid index and scatter diagrams from morphological characters, and determination of pollen fertility. Hybridization between D. fructicosa and D. passerina was confirmed, and introgression is strongly indicated. 
3218379|Elaphoglossum trichomidiatum is described from northeastern Mexico. The new species is a member of the E. petiolatum complex, which is widespread in tropical America, Africa, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific Islands. It is unique in the complex and in section Lepidoglossa in bearing trichomidia on the abaxial blade surface.
2806531|The synapotypic feature of seriate leaf cell papillae positioned on cell lumina and directed over the longitudinal cross walls allies Bryowijkia with the Trachypodaceae. The Hedwigiaceae consist of four closely related genera, and excludes Rhacocarpus, a genus best placed in its own family, the Rhacocarpaceae. These taxa a all belong in the Leucodontineae (Isobryales) and are not related to either the Grimmiales or the Orthotrichales.
2806421|Dalea formosa consists of diploids (n = 7), tetraploids (n = 14), and hexaploids (n = 21), the polyploids restricted to the Chihuahuan Desert region or its immediate borders. There is very little morphological differentiation between the three chromosome races and, therefore, the polyploids are assumed to be primarily autoploid. Tetraploids descovered were few and were very similar to hexaploids; the two ploidy levels were combined as "polyploids" for analyses of geographically and cytologically correlated morphological variation. Pollen length generally was found to be greater in known polyploids than in known diploids. Through the use of pollen length and geographic origin, chromosomally unknown specimens were estimated as to ploidy level. This produced four groups, known diploids and polyploids, and putative diploids and polyploids, which were then subjected to stepwise discriminat analysis (SDA) to search for other morphological characters that might indicate ploidy level, to evaluate the assignments to putative ploidy level in unknown plants, and to assess correlation of these plants of putative ploidy level to geographic regions. SDA also indicated that pollen lenght, among ten morphological features, is the primary discriminator between ploidy levels, and that putative polyploids are confined primarily to the Chihuahuan Desert. Chromosomally unknown specimens that were originally assigned to one ploidy level, but were classified by SDA as another, are viewed as indicative of areas where further cytological sampling is particularly needed. These areas are southeastern Arizona, where pollen among known diploids is comparatively large, northeastern New Mexico, where polyploids might occur off the Chihuahuan Desert, east edge of the Chihuahuan Desert in Texas, a cytologically poorly sampled contact zone between diploids and polyploids, and central Coahuila, where no cytological sampling has been done. Canonical variate analysis is used to aid in the visualization of the general morphological relationship between diploids and polyploids.
30218785|Koeberlinia has a natural amphitropical distribution that includes the deserts of central Bolivia, northern Mexico, and the southwestern United States. Despite the long recognition of only one species, K. spinosa, field, herbarium, and SEM studies support the recognition of two species. Koeberlinia spinosa of northern Mexico and adjacent United States is recognized to consist of three varieties: K. spinosa var. spinosa of northeastern Mexico and the adjacent United States, K. spinosa var. tenuispina of the Sonoran Desert of southwestern Arizona, adjacent California, and northwestern Mexico, and K. spinosa var. wivaggii from south central Texas and northern Mexico to Arizona, which is described as new. Koeberlina holacantha, endemic to the deserts of Bolivia, is proposed as new.
2666549|A key is presented for use in identifying asymmetrically winged fruits (samaras) with either proximal or distal locules. It aids identification based on dispersed fruit morphology and can be used to identify undetermined extant herbarium specimens or fossil fruits to the correct extant family and genus. The 39 genera from 11 families (Aceraceae, Anacardiaceae, Fabaceae, Malpighiaceae, Phytolaccaceae, Polygalaceae, Polygonaceae, Rutaceae, Sapindaceae, Trigoniaceae, Ulmaceae) are distinguished on the basis of wing venation, size of fruit, presence and position of attachment surface, presence and type of subsidiary wings on the ovary wall, ornamentation, size and shape of the ovary, locule position, shape of locule cross section, style position and ornamentation, distinction between ovary wall and wing, and angle of attachment between individual samaras. The developmental origins of some of these features are discussed.
2807832|The relationship between the genus Echites and Prestonia sect. Coalitae is analyzed and discussed. Prestonia agglutinata and P. woodsoniana are restored to Echites. In addition, Echites darienensis is described and a new name, Echites puntarenensis, is proposed here. Eight species are maintained in Echites.
2806658|Two taxa, narrowly endemic to the Trinity Mountains in northwestern California, are described. Sedum laxum subsp, flavidum is a tetraploid (n = 30) and is found on metabasaltic outcroppings, and Sedum obtusatum subsp. paradisum is a diploid (n = 15) and occurs on granite outcroppings.
2805829|A survey of flavonoids in sixteen of the seventeen taxa in the genus Perideridia (umbelliferae) showed the presence of thirteen glycosides of the flavonols kaempferol, quercetin, and isorhamnetin, and seven glycosides of the flavones apigenin, luteolin and chrysoeriol. An anthocyanin and four other flavonoids also occur, but remain unidentified due to their low concentration. Several species characteristically produce species-apecific compounds. The majority of species, however, produce flavonoids common to one or more taxa, but each taxon can be distinguished by its own specific complement of these flavonoids. Based on classes of flavonoids the genus can be divided into three groups: (1) those species which produce only flavonols; (2) those which produce mainly flavonols and a few flavones; and (3) those which produce predominantly flavones with flavonols absent or present only in trace amounts. Geographically, the flavonol-producing species are centered in California, extending northeastward to Idaho and eastward into Arizona. The flavonol/flavone producers are concentrated more towards the Pacific Northwest and eastward through the Rocky Mountains to the midwestern United States.
2805681|Relationships between floral elements of disjunct segments of the mixed mesophytic forest formation in eastern North America were investigated by comparison of populations of Ptelea trifoliata ssp. trifoliata in nine deciduous forest regions, using thin-layer chromatography as a supplement to morphological data. Details of leaf morphology and the presence of certain key spots in chromatographic patterns visible under ultraviolet light were tabulated for comparison of populations. Similarities were noted between populations of the Appalachian highlands and the mountaints of southern Mexico, and between the southeastern United States and the Interior. Characteristics of Ptelea populations of glaciated regions indicated floral relationships with vegetations areas on both sides of the Mississippi Valley.
30219394|Paloue sandwithii is described and illustrated from Kaieteur region, Guyana, South America. Characters that distinguish it from the other species of Paloue are the presence of five subequal petals and large coriaceous leaves with prominent venation on the underside of the lamina.
2805824|Nine of the 13 taxa of Lasthenia in which two or more populations were examined for flavonoid constituents exhibited interpopulation variation in these constituents. In certain species entire classes of compounds were present in some races and absent from others. Some of these biochemical differences are due to the failure of certain steps to occur in the biosynthesis of various flavonoids from precursor compounds. Another pattern of variation involves intraspecific differences in the nature of flavonoid glycosides that are produced. In view of the close biosynthetic relationships among all the flavonoids produced by Lasthenia, the genetic differences among the flavonoid races of a species may be small. Whether or not these biochemical differences have any adaptive significance is problematical at present.
2807130|Two new Brazilian species, Serjania fluminensis and S. unidentata, are described, illustrated, and discussed.
2807262|Mimosa biuncifera, as currently defined in southwestern United States, is shown to comprise two related species, M. biuncifera s. str. and M. texana, distinguished primarily by position of the nodal aculei. Taxonomic synonyms of M. biuncifera are M. lindheimeri and M. warnockii (the first undisputed, the second provisional); M. texana includes M. wherryana.
2806015|Jacob Corwin Blumer, a Swiss-born botanist, collected several thousand plants in southern Arizona, concentrating on the Chiricahua Mountains, Cochise County, and the Rincon Mountains, Pima County. At least 28 of these collections were later designated as type specimens. He published 23 papers on a variety of topics, including plant ecology and plant geography. His botanical career was brief, lasting from 1906 to 1917. He spent the latter half of his life as a farmer in Minnesota.
4497332|Luziola is a small genus from aquatic environments of the New World. The most widespread species in the genus is L. peruviana. Morphological variation has been documented for this species throughout its entire range of distribution, however this variation has been difficult to characterize. A population aggregation analysis was performed in order to determine how many species can be identified when analyzing characters from the individuals of this taxon as well as with individuals from closely related taxa such as L. divergens, L. doelliana, and L. pittieri. Multivariate analysis, ANOVA and ANCOVA analyses were also performed to detect if quantitative morphological variation is related to altitude and latitude. Results indicate that within this complex only one species should be recognized, referable to L. peruviana, and that plants near the equator are larger, and have larger lemmas and paleas in both female and male flowers. An identification key for the nine species now recognized in Luziola is included.
4497345|A new species, Deprea nubicola, is described. Although the corolla is similar in some aspects to that of D. bitteriana, D. nubicola is distinguished by its diminutive leaves, a low density of hairs in the corolla annulus, glabrous filaments, and a distinctive long-pedicellate, subulate-lobed fruiting calyx. Deprea nubicola shares with D. ecuatoriana a fruiting calyx that tightly invests the berry. The distribution of D. nubicola is limited to the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta of northern Colombia. A key to the species of Deprea is provided.
2806735|Spiranthes dendroneura, a new species from the pine-oak forests of northwestern Mexico, resembles S. parasitica and S. valerioi in the slender leafless flowering habit, the solitary, tuberously thickened root, and the calli at the base of the lip, but differs by the distinctive shape of the lip which lacks a red central thickening.
2807045| Five species of Oenocarpus from the Ro Caquet, in the Colombia Amazon, are discussed. Two of them, Oenocarpus simplex and Oenocarpus makeru are described as new. Oenocarpus bacaba var. parvus is shown to be a synonym of O. balickii; this species and O. minor are recorded for the first time in Colombia. Some comments on the poorly known O. circumtextus are also given. The new findings support the inclusion of Jessenia in Oenocarpus. 
2805981|Karyotypes of 24 diploid (2n=12) Tragopogon species are similar with one long pair of chromosomes (A), two medium-length pairs (B and C), and three short pairs (D, E, and F). These species may be divided into three karyotypic groups: I) seven species with a satellite on A and on D; 2) 14 species with a satellite on A only; and 3) three species with a satellite on D only. Most species within karyotype groups may be separated from each other either by distinctive features of certain chromosomes or by statistical differences in length of chromosome arms or long arm: short arm ratios of chromosome A. Three tetraploid (2n=24) species had two long pairs (A,A'), four medium-length pairs (B,B';C,C'), and six short pairs (D,D';E,E';F,F'). Suggestions are made as to the putative diploid parents of these presumed allotetraploids.
2806976|Primula tschuktschroum Kjellman s. lat., known from Alaska and northeastern Siberia, has been the subject of many nomenclatural combinations. This paper argues the case for treating it as two species on the basis of morphology and reproductive biology. Primula tschuktschorum Kjellman s. str. is a distylous species endemic to the Bering Strait region and P. eximia Greene is a more widely distributed homostylous species. The polymorphism seen in P. eximia is attributed to ecological and phenological factors and a high degree of self-fertilization. In contrast to its distylous relative, the ability of this homotylous species to self-fertilize has enabled it to colonize recently deglaciated areas in Alaska. Because of the intramorph incompatibility system associated with distyly, P.tschuktschorum is an obligate outcrosser. Its apparent rarity may be due to a dependence on inefficient pollinators. The species deserve further study to determine if there is a need for protected status in Alaska.
2807669|Bulbostylis splendens from Brazil is described, illustrated, and compared to a related taxon.
2806638|Observations on the floral biology of seven species of New World Lecythidaceae, including the first report of bat pollination for neotropical members of the family, are presented. The shift from actinomorphic flowers with many stamens to zygomorphic flowers with fewer stamens and the concomitant change from pollen to nectar as the pollinator reward are discussed and related to teh respective pollinators. Several mechanisms which operate to reduce competition for pollinators between sympatric species of the family are suggested.
2807215|Further observations on the floral morphology and anatomy of the monotypic genus Medusagyne from the Seychelles are presented. The unique synovarious gynoecium is composed of numerous carpels that are attached to the side of a broad, elongated torus. The biovulate carpels are differentiated into a narrow ovary, a stout, erect, three-trace style, and a lobed, discoid stigma. The carpel wall is initially composed of thin-walled parenchyma, but at later stages of development the peripheral region becomes subdivided into many lignified sterile extensions. Carpels show pronunced ontogenetic adaxial deformation, during which the upper ventral surfaces become expanded, greatly extending the ventral margins and forming a domelike cushion of carpel-derived tissue over the summit of the torus. The distal cushion remains separated from the flattened torus by a compressed cavity and eventually undergoes lignification, perhaps protecting the underlying gynoecium from chewing insects and exposure. Comparisons are made between the mature gynoecia of Medusagyne and those of the genus Dillenia. The occurrence of S-type sieve-element plastids in Medusagyne is reported for the first time, a feature in agreement with suggested thealean affinities of the family.
2666602|Four major austral continental distribution patterns are evident in pteridophytes. Twenty-two species are completely circum-Antarctic. Another 39 species are partially circum-Antarctic, occurring in Australasia (Australia and New Zealand) and Africa (including Madagascar) but not South America, while 29 are in Africa and South America but not Australasia, and 13 are in South America and Australasia but not Africa. Two hypotheses are considered as explanations for the patterns: continental drift following the break-up of Gondwana and long-distance dispersal. Fossil evidence indicates that the majority of pteridophyte families involved appeared after the southern continents had drifted apart, so long-distance dispersal is likely to explain the distribution of species in these families on now widely separated continents. For those families extant before the break-up, there is no indication in the fossil record that the species involved were present in Gondwana. Aspects of the ecology of the species that are partly or completely circum-Antarctic indicate that long-distance dispersal, rather than continental drift, is a likely explanation for the patterns.
2806501|Erithoxylum steyermarkii Plowman, E. undulatum Plowman and E. williamsii Standley ex Plowman, all known only from Venezuela, are described and illustrated, and their taxonomic and phytogeographic relationships are discussed.
2807733|Three new species of Mimosa are described: M. (sect. Batocaulon) epitropica Barneby & Len de la Luz from Mexico (Baja California Sur); and two from planaltine Brazil, M. (sect. Habbasia) bispiculata Barneby and M. (sect. Mimosa) demissa Barneby. The affinity of each is discussed, and all are illustrated.
4497344|Lycianthes pringlei was first described (in the genus Solanum) in 1895. Since that initial publication, a description of the species has been included in just one taxonomic work, Georg Bitter's 1919 monograph on the genus. In both works, the species is described as a perennial herb, a misconception that is repeated on the labels of some of those who have collected the species. Lycianthes pringlei is a shrub, often present in low population densities, with calyces and seeds that are uncommon in the genus. This article provides a new description for the species, illustrations of species characteristics, and seed photos.
2807761| Ticorea comprises five species, which occur in the Guianas, throughout the Amazonian basin, and on the lower eastern slopes of the Andes in Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia. Two of the five are described here as new: T. diandra, from eastern Ecuador and adjacent Peru, and t. froesii, from Maranho and Par. Brazil. 
2805680|Hedeoma pilosum and H. micro-phyllum are described as new. The former, an endemic of western Texas, is closely related to H. pusillum and H. apiculatum; the latter is intermediate between H. costatum and H. nanum. H. oblongifolium var. mexicanum and H. drummondii var. crenulatum are presented as two new varieties, both of which may have originated as hybrids. Hedeoma crenulatum is proposed as a new name to replace H. montanum (Brade) Epling & Jativa. Three new combinations are made in the genus Hesperozygis, and new status is accorded to two species.
3218536| Heteropterys andersonii, related to series Metallophyllis Nied., is described as new and illustrated. ///[Spanish]Heteropterys andersonii, relacionada a srie Metallophyllis Nied.,  descrita como nova e ilustrada. 
2807821|Cavendishia davidsei Luteyn, Cavendishia gomezii Luteyn, and Cavendishia limonensis Luteyn are described as new and their relationships are discussed; C. davidsei and C. limonensis are illustrated. Cavendishia chiriquiensis and var. bullata, Sphyrospermum ellipticum, Themistoclesia horquetensis, and the genus Anthopterus (A. revolutus) are newly reported from Costa Rica; Orthaea brachysiphon is newly reported from Mexico, Belize, and Honduras; Pernettya prostrata is reported here from Honduras; and Themistoclesia costaricensis is verified from Panama. Cavendishia glutinosa (= C. endresii) and Empedoclesia brachysiphon (= Orthaea brachysiphon) are neotypified.
4099033|A review of the usage of Hortia brasiliana Vand. ex DC. and H. arborea Engl. is given. The first name has been applied incorrectly to a shrubby species which occurs in the "cerrados" and "campos sujos" (Brazilian savannas) in Rondonia, western Minas Gerais, and central Brazil; the second name pertains to an arborescent species in forests of eastern Brazil. The type specimen of H. brasiliana (of which H. arborea is a synonym) is the same as the arborescent species of eastern Brazil. The name Hortia oreadica is here proposed for the shrubby species of central Brazil, a previously undescribed species. A description, the uses, and the local names, as well as an illustration and distribution map of H. oreadica are presented. The name Hortia arborea Engl. is lectotypified.
2807570|Justicia masiaca, a new species endemic to northwestern Mexico, is described, illustrated, and compared with the morphologically similar J. longii. In its 4-aperturate pollen, Justicia masiaca is unique among those species of Justicia with elongate, cylindrical corolla tubes that were previously treated in Siphonoglossa.
2807650|Xenomeris saccifolii is described from leaves of Saccifolium bandeirae (Gentianales, Saccifoliaceae); Gibbera sphyrospermi is described from fruit of Sphyrospermum cordifolium (Ericales, Ericaceae). The anamorph of G. sphyrospermi is presumed to be a species of Stigmina. The concept of Stigmina is expanded to include species with unicellular conidia produced on branched conidiophores.
4099008|Four new species of Galianthe (G. boliviana, G. chiquitosana, G. sudyungensis, and G. kempffiana) for Bolivia are described and illustrated. Galianthe kempffiana is also known from Brazil. Galianthe laxa and G. bisepala are reported for the first time for Bolivia.
3218397|A new species of Vitaceae is described and illustrated: Cissus pinnatifolia, the eighth species of the genus with pinnately compound leaves; an emended key to this group of species is also presented.
2806191|Seven Thai species of Cyperaceae are taxonomically discussed, and references are made to two related Vietnamese species. Described as new are Eleocharis macrorrhiza, Fimbristylis parvilenta, F. subtricephala (from Vietnam) and Schoenus smitinandii. New combinations made are Bolboschoenus maritimus subsp. affinis, Diplacrum exiguum (from Vietnam), Rhynchospora hirticeps and Schoenoplectus annamicus.
2806150|Examination of leaf flavonoids of all taxa of Coreopsis section Palmatae revealed that most members synthesize an array of common flavone (mostly luteolin and apigenin) glycosides. Each diploid species or diploid member of a species is characterized by a particular ensemble of compounds. These taxa include C. major, C. verticillata, C. pulchra, C. palmata, and C. tripteirs. The letter species differs from all other taxa in producing flavonol (kaempferol and quercetin) glycosides and what appear to be 6-oxygenated compounds. Tetraploids of C. verticillata exhibit the same flavonoids as diploid members of the species, thus flavonoid chemistry supports the hypothesis that they originated from diploids within the species. Certain populations of hexaploid and octoploid C. major are similar chemically to diploids, suggesting they also originated as intraspecific polyploids. Other populations of these polyploids exhibit a flavonoid profile which differs from the profile of the diploids, and this profile is nearly identical to the octoploid Coreopsis x delphinifolia. The latter taxon has been viewed by Smith (1976) and Mueller (1974) as an interspecific hybrid between C. verticillata and C. major and/or C. tripteris. Species-specific compounds from the former species occur in C. x delphinifolia but no compounds unique to either of the latter two species are discernable. Flavonoid chemistry is not useful in ascertaining whether either or both species have been involved with C. verticillata in producing plants referable to C. x delphinifolia. There is morphological intergradation between octoploid C. major and C. x delphinifolia, and all plants not appearing to be "pure" C. major exhibit a flavonoid chemistry like C. x delphinifolia. All plants of section Palmatae considered to be alloploids (including C. x delphinifolia) produce the same array of leaf flavonoids, including several "novel" compounds not expressed in the putative parental taxa. Two of the "novel" flavonoids are present in the geographically restricted diploid C. pulchra. The systematic and phylogentic significance of this is not readily apparent.
2806649|The mountains of Costa Rica and western Panama constitute a natural floristic region that is inhabited by six species of Castilleja. Castilleja talamanencensis, C. lentii and C. tayloriorum are described as new. The remaining three are C. arvensis, C. irasuensis and C. quirosii. All but C. arvensis are endemic to the area. The six species are keyed, described, illustrated, mapped and documented with literature and specimen citations.
2806967|Reinhardtia paiewonskiana, a previously undescribed species endemic to the Dominican Republic, is formally described and represent the first record for the genus in the West Indies.
23254274|Zamia tolimensis, a large arborescent species from the Central Cordillera of Tolima, Colombia, is described and illustrated. It is compared to Z. lindenii and Z. poeppigiana, the two most similar species. From these it is distinguished by leaflets with fewer teeth, sparse prickles on its petioles, beige-yellow ovulate strobili with shorter peduncles, and more microsporangia aggregated into a single group on the abaxial surface of the microsporophyll. Brief descriptions of Z. lindenii and Z. poeppigiana are also provided, as well as a key to separate the three species.
2666513|The recent publication of two major works on neotropical species of the genus Pavonia at almost the same time has resulted in discrepancies needing either correction or clarification. These items result from priority considerations, conflicting typifications, and typographical and other errors in a few cases.
2807288|Described and illustrated from Cerro de la Neblina in T. F. Amazonas, Venezuela is the fifth known Guayanan species of Pentacalia, a genus recently reinstated from synonymy within Senecio. The distinctions between these two genera are briefly discussed as are the distinctions between Pentacalia and similar genera. A key to the new species, Pentacalia neblinensis, and the other species of Pentacalia from the Guayana Highland is given.
2806313|A new species, Ivesia paniculata, is described, illustrated and contrasted with its closest relatives. A key to the California five-stamened Ivesia is presented.
2805543|The effects of random and nonrandom errors were analyzed. Four types of nonrandom errors were simulated and examined in detail: 1. misidentification of compounds; 2. unresolved components; 3. errors in the quantification of individual compounds; and 4. errors in the quantification of a series of analyses. These cases were compared using data from studies in Juniperus. Misidentification of 1 of 40 components had only a slight effect on the resulting classification even when that error accounted for 20% of the total character weights. Unresolved components also had only a slight effect. Nonrandom errors in the quantification of individual compounds (throughout a study) were shown to have no effect on the similarity measure used in this study. Errors in the quantification of a series of analyses (such as encountered in seasonal variations) appeared to be the most serious source of error and were shown to be of considerable importance in chemosystematic studies. Several preventative procedures are suggested.
2807587|A review of the nomenclatural history of Thamnobryum subserratum and Thamnobryum subseriatum shows that the former, which ranges widely from the Himalayas to Southeast Asia, has been misrepresented in the literature as Thamnobryum "subseriatum," and that the latter, which appears to be a Japanese endemic, has been called a superfluous name, Thamnobryum sandei. A new combination, Thamnobryum subseriatum (Mitt. ex Sande Lac.) Tan, is proposed for the Japanese endemic and its lectotype hereby designated. In addition, morphological differences between the two taxa are discussed.
2807551|Lindernia blancoi Philcox and Veronica plebiea R. Br. are reported for the first time from Mexico and Costa Rica, respectively. Additional stations for V. javanica Blume in Brazil are reported, along with a first report from Mexico. Specimen citation lists and brief diagnostic keys are provided.
2807135|In preparation for the treatment of Chrysobalanaceae for Flora Malesiana, new and critical taxa are discussed and described. Two new species were found, Atuna cordata and Parastemon grandifructus. Hunga fusicarpa is transferred to the genus Licania as L. fusicarpa. Species complexes around Parinari costata and P. papuana are discussed; in both cases previously recognized species are reduced to subspecific rank within rather polymorphic species.
4497327|Previous analyses of Asteropeia and Physena have not compared the wood anatomy of these genera to those of Caryophyllales s.l. Molecular evidence shows that the two genera form a clade that is a sister group of the core Caryophyllales. Synapomorphies of the Asteropeia-Physena clade include small circular alternate pits on vessels, presence of vasicentric tracheids plus fiber-tracheids, presence of abaxial-confluent plus diffuse axial parenchyma, and presence of predominantly uniseriate rays. These features are analyzed with respect to habit and ecology of the two genera. Solitary vessels, present in both genera, are related to the presence of vasicentric tracheids. Autapomorphies in the two genera seem related to adaptations by Physena as a shrub of moderately dry habitats (e.g., narrower vessel elements, abundant vasicentric tracheids, square to erect cells in rays) as compared to alternate character expressions that seem related to the arboreal habit and humid forest ecology of Asteropeia. The functional significance of vasicentric tracheids and fiber-tracheids in dicotyledons is briefly reviewed in the light of wood anatomy of the two genera.
2806578|Thirteen species of the genus Myriophyllum are found in North America; ten are native, three have been introduced. A key to the species is provided and previous conflicting taxonomic treatments are assessed. The possibility of a polyploid series involving four species is considered and dismissed. Eight of the common species are found to exhibit sufficient phenotypic plasticity to account for most if not all the taxonomic problems encountered.
2805916|Camptosema douradense (Leguminosae: Lotoideae) is described. The species is known only from the type locality and its vicinity, the summit of the Serra Dourada near the town of Goias Velho in the State of Goias, Brazil.
3218346|A new species of Vitaceae is described and illustrated: Cissus xerophila, a simple-leaved species similar to C. verticillata (L.) Nicolson & C. E. Jarvis and related species. A key to the group in South America is presented.
2807287| Roupala barnettiae from the Montaas de Misis in Edo. Trujillo, Venezuela is described and illustrated. Its taxonomic affinities are also discussed. 
2806083|By having two stipular lobes somewhat lateral above each petiole (vs. one lobe centered over the petiole), the newly described Gleasonia prancei differs from other species of Gleasonia while agreeing with species of Henriquezia. This augments the growing support for associating the genera taxonomically.
4098964| Two new species of Mimosa are described: M. woodii (sect. Mimosa), from the central Andean valleys of Bolivia, and M. suberosa (sect. Habbasia), from Serrana Huanchaca in the Noel Kempff National Park in the north east of Santa Cruz Department in eastern Bolivia. The affinities of each are discussed, their distributions mapped, and both species are illustrated. 
2806567|Qualea amapansis, the second species of sect. Polytrias Stafleu is described. It differs from its close relative, Q. cymulosa, principally in its entirely glabrous leaves and more profusely branched cymes. The two species and a new pair to the growing list of taxa disjunct between eastern Panama/Colombia and the Guianas.
2807157|A new species, Bactris pliniana, from the Amazon region is described and illustrated. Its relationships within the Piranga group are discussed.
2806935| Anacardium amapanse, a new species, is described and segregated from A. parvifolium. Its leaf domatia are substantially different in morphology from the latter. Based on gross morphological characters, Anacardium amapanse appears to be most closely allied with A. fruticosum. An emended description of A. parvifolium, distribution maps of A. amapanse, A. fruticosum and A. parvifolium, and a revised key to Anacardium are included. 
40792897|Six new species of Timonius (T. alius, T. bosaviensis, T. creber, T. cyathicalyx, T. insularis, and T. pullenii) are described from New Guinea and surrounding islands. The new species are illustrated and notes are provided on their habitat, distribution and phenology. None of the new species is readily assignable to any previously recognized subgenus or species-group.
2805616|The paper represents a reassessment of familial relationships within the Order Santalales. Rafflesiaceae, Hydnoraceae, and Balanophoraceae are excluded from the order, and their reproductive similarities with some Santalales regarded as evolutionary convergence. The exclusion of Grubbiaceae from Santalales sponsored by other workers is accepted, as is the reassignment to other families of the two only genera of Octoknemaceae. The remaining members of the order are placed into six families, viz. Olacaceae (possibly representing several smaller families); Santalaceae; Loranthaceae (sensu stricto); Viscaceae (sensu stricto); Myzodendraceae; and Eremolepidaceae (containing Eremolepis, Eubrachion, and Antidaphne). It is suggested that Lepidoceras, formerly placed near the above three genera, is more properly placed in Loranthaceae (sensu stricto) near Tupeia. The proposed scheme of affinities of the families of Santalales, as reconstituted, is based to a large extent on inflorescence structure, but is supported by floral morphology and other features. The thesis is defended that Loranthaceae (sensu stricto), Santalaceae, Myzodendraceae, and Eremolepidaceae represent four independent lines of development from portions of the Olacacean complex. Viscaceae (sensu stricto) may be derived directly from Santalaceae.
2805473|The flora of Barro Colorado Island was examined for affinities with the floras of Central and South America. Trees, lianas, and epiphytes were treated as separate groups. Distributional classes were established, ranging from species endemic to Panama and those with distributions including both Central and South America as well as the West Indies. The Barro Colorado flora seems to consist of approximately equal numbers of both North (chiefly Central) and South American species. Twelve percent of the Barro Colorado Island species considered in this study are endemic to Panama, and 11% are restricted to Panama and to nearby regions of Colombia and Costa Rica. Trees, lianas, and epiphytes are endemic in roughly an inverse proportion to their ability to be wind-dispersed, with trees showing the highest level of endemism and also having the least significant wind dispersal. About 50% of all species in the study are common to both North and South America, indicating a significant migration of species from both directions. The evidence indicates that most migrations between North and South America were Late Tertiary.
2807104|Hechtia glauca and Hechtia iltisii are described as new and illustrated. Among the Bromeliaceae H. glauca is unusual in its glabrous, glaucous leaf surfaces. Inflorescence and floral dimorphisms are discussed for H. glauca and H. iltisii. A key to species of Hechtia from Novo-Galiciana and adjacent parts of Michoacan is included.
2666587|Morphological and ITS sequence divergence were assessed between the two presently recognized taxa of the endemic genus Cuminia (Lamiaceae), on Masatierra of the Juan Fernandez Islands. Morphological studies were based on leaf morphology of 51 individuals. Individuals of C. fernandezia have narrow and lanceolate leaves with cuneate to acute bases and apices, whereas individuals of C. eriantha have broadly ovate leaves with rounded bases and acute to obtuse apices. The two taxa can also be distinguished by the presence of pubescence. Cuminia eriantha has hairs on the leaves, young stems, floral peduncles, calyx, and corolla. Alternatively, C. fernandezia is glabrous except for tuft hairs on the nodes, and hairs on calyx teeth and corolla tubes. The ITS 1 and 2 regions of the five plants of Cuminia sequenced are a total of 451 bp long. All plants have identical ITS-1 but pubescent and glabrous plants are consistently different in ITS-2 sequence, revealing 1.3% total sequence divergence between the species. Both morphological and molecular data support the taxonomic recognition of two taxa, and the small but consistent differences appear to justify species status for the two entities. The pubescent populations represent C. eriantha and the glabrous ones are C. fernandezia. It is hypothesized that the species diverged from a common ancestral immigrant to the islands, when Masatierra was much larger and more ecologically diverse than it now is. The two taxa seem to maintain their identities with no evidence of hybridization, even though they often grow in close proximity to one other on the island. Each population consists only of glabrous or pubescent plants, with no mixed population detected.
2807239|Seventeen new species are proposed in the genera Ada, Gongora, Kefersteinia, Lockhartia, Lycaste, Macroclinium, Oncidium, Polycycnis, Scelochilus, and Trichosalpinx. All new species are illustrated. A key to Kefersteinia in Peru is presented. The description of Oncidium boliviense is emended, and the species is illustrated for the first time.
2807233|A synopsis of the species of Acalypha subgenus Linostachys known from Colombia is presented. Further, three new species, A. inaequilatera, A. chocoana, and A. castroviejoi, are described and illustrated, and several species are reduced to synonymy. A key is provided to the Colombian species of this subgenus.
2806435|Scutellaria holmgreniorum from Lassen Co., California, is described as new. A key to the species of Scutellaria in the Intermountain Region of western United States is provided.
23254272|Aristolochia gracilipedunculata, a new pseudostipule-bearing species from Baha and Espritu Santo (eastern Brazil), is here described and compared to other species present in this area that belong to the informal group Pseudostipulosae. The new species is easily recognizable by the presence of a long, filiform peduncle, and by the oblong, fimbriate perianth limb with a rounded and emarginate apex. Floral morphology of the new species is also compared to other non-Pseudostipulosae South American species with similar perianth shape. Aristolochia gracilipedunculata, especie pseudoestipulada de Baha y Espritu Santo (E Brasil) es descrita y comparada con otras especies del grupo informal Pseudostipulosae presentes en el rea. La nueva especie se reconoce facilmente por la presencia de un largo pednculo floral filiforme, y por el limbo del perianto oblongo, con margen fimbriada y pice redondeado y emarginado. La forma floral de la nueva especie se compara con la de otras especies suramericanas no pseudostipuladas pero que poseen perianto similar.
2805270|The grass commonly called "meadow fescue" is known in the United States as Festuca elatior L. and in Europe as F. pratensis Hudson. Study of the literature and type specimen shows that the name F. elatior L. is ambiguous and confused. The earliest correctly applied name is F. pratensis Hudson, hence it should be universally adopted.
2805670|Periandra gracilis is described, the type locality of this very rare species being the Parque Municipal do Gama, Distrito Federal. Thus far this species is known only from the type locality.
2666584|Morella chevalieri is described as new and is illustrated; it grows in the Andes in northern Argentina and southern and central Bolivia. A key that differentiates this new species from the monoecious Myrica pubescens is presented. The dioecious Morella chevalieri is characterized by the following: leaf blade elliptic to narrowly elliptic, margin serrate (at least in the distal 2/3); staminate flowers with one or no secondary bracts (if present, linear or band-shaped) and secondary bracts in the pistillate flower 2-3 (seldom 4).
2805514|The genus Balduina, endemic to the southeastern United States as interpreted here, includes a complex of three species: B. atropurpurea Harper, B. angustifolia (Pursh) Robinson, and B. uniflora Nutt. The first two species have a chromosome number of n=18 and B. uniflora has n=36. Hybridization experiments demostrated strong internal reproductive isolating mechanisms. Flavonoid and sesquiterpene lactone data suggest a possible relationship to the tribe Helenieae.
2807244|A new species from northern Mexico, Malaxis chica, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by its small, unifoliate habit, subumbellate inflorescences, and sagittate lip with long basal lobes. Malaxis chica is compared to three species-M. corymbosa, M. salazarii, and M. rosei-with which it shows some morphological similarity.
4098998| A new species of Vernonanthura (Asteraceae), V. warmingiana, from the Brazilian states of Minas Gerais and So Paulo is described and illustrated. The new species resembles Vernonanthura laxa, but differs in having 15-20 florets per capitula, small leaves, the blades elliptic to lanceolate and rounded at the apex. In addition, a new synonym is reported for Vernonanthura laxa, which is also described, and for the first time illustrated. /// Una nueva especie de Vernonanthura (Asteraceae), V. warmingiana, de los estados brasileros de Minas Gerais y So Paulo es descrita e ilustrada. La nueva especie se asemeja a Vernonanthura laxa, pero difiere por presentar 15-20 flores por captulo, hojas de menor tamao y lmina foliar elptica o lanceolada, redondeada en el pice. Adems se presenta un nuevo sinnimo para Vernonanthura laxa, la cual tambin es descrita y por primera vez ilustrada. 
2806724|Penstemon distans, belonging to sect. Cristati (Rydb.) Pennell and known only from the southeastern edge of the Shivwits Plateau, Mohave Co., Arizona, is described, illustrated and discussed.
2807048|A new species of Serjania (S. lancistipula) from Bahia belonging to the S. paradoxa group is described and illustrated. A key to the species in the paradoxa group is provided.
2806834|A collection of Leptosphaeria opuntiae, obtained in pure culture, produced the pycnidial anamorph Hendersonia opuntiae, which comfirms a previous speculation that the two were connected. Two new combinations, Montagnula opuntiae and Sclerostagonospora opuntiae are proposed and the two states are redescribed and re-illustrated.
2806254|A new species, Cymopterus davisii, from alpine areas in the Albion Mountains of extreme south-central Idaho, is described. It has been confused with C. nivalis, with which it is compared. The fruit of C. davisii are subterete to somewhat compressed laterally and, contrary to the literature, correspond closely to those of C. nivalis and related species.
40793376|One new species each is proposed in Chalybea and Huilaea (Melastomataceae: Blakeeae). Chalybea peruviana has elliptic, 5-plinerved leaves with entire, revolute margins, inflorescences with 33-39 flowers, and is endemic to Peru. Huilaea calyptrata has inflorescences with 15-17, irregularly calyptrate flowers, anthers with a warty connective in the shape of an inverted hand fan, and is endemic to Ecuador. A key to the eight species of Huilaea is provided. Se proponen dos nuevas especies de los gneros Chalybea y Huilaea (Melastomataceae: Blakeeae). Chalybea peruviana se caracteriza por las hojas elpticas con margen entera y revoluta, la venacin suprabasal, con cinco nervios, la inflorescencia con 33-39 flores y es endmica de Per. Huilaea calyptrata tiene inflorescencia con 15-17 flores y la dehiscencia floral es imperfectamente caliptrada; anteras con un conectivo en forma de abanico de mano invertido, verrugoso y es endmica de Ecuador. Se incluye una clave para las ocho especies de Huilaea.
2807513|Piriqueta mortonii from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec is described and illustrated, bringing to three the number of species of Piriqueta known from Mexico. A key to the three species is presented.
4098947|Rupert C. Barneby, his monumental contributions to the taxonomy of Astragalus and his place among American botanists, is discussed. His twenty contributions in the series Pugillus Astragalorum spanned fifteen years of his botanical development from an interested naturalist to an accomplished taxonomist in this extremely species-rich genus. Barneby's work on Astragalus culminated in the 1188 pages of the Atlas of North American Astragalus, which treated of 552 taxa and was published in 1964.
2806981|Three new species of Convolvulaceae, Merremia austinii, Ipomoea miquihuanensis, and I. zimmermanii, are described. Collections of the former two taxa come from Tamaulipas, and the latter from Coahuila. Relationships of each taxon are discussed.
2805434|The white-rayed species complex of Melampodium has been tread by various authors as containing one, two, or three species. A re-evaluation of the taxa in this complex by use of chromatographic profiles of methanolic leaf extracts from numerous populations over the range of the group has revealed three distinct patterns which, along with morphological and ecological data, provide support for the recognition of three species within the group. Distributional analysis of previously and newly reported chromosome counts of 157 plants in 99 populations shows tetraploid races of n = 20 in both M. leucanthum var. leucanthum and M. cinereum var. cinereum to be located primarily in central and south central Texas but locally intermixed with diploid races. Interpretation of morphology, meiotic configurations, and chemical profiles confirms that these cytotypes are autopolyploid in origin and should not be given formal recognition. All data are used to interpret evolutionary relationships, and it is believed that M. leucanthum var. argophyllum may closely resemble the progenitor of the entire complex.
2806429|Colections from French Guiana, Amazonian Brazil, and Colombia taken in the last 20 years include new species in the following genera: Duroia, Pagamea, Psychotria, Randia, Retiniphyllum, Rudgea, Sabicea, Sipanea, and Sphinctanthus. Twenty-one new species are described and five are illustrated.
2806320|This paper reports the results of our investigation of the Orchidaceae of the Bahama Archipelago. Included are two new combinations, Encyclia fehlingii and Encyclia withneri, the addition to the orchid flora of five species not previously reported, Cranichis muscosa. Eulophia alta, Spiranthes vernalis, Campylocentrum micranthum and Encyclia selligera, as well as the description of one new species, Vanilla correllii, and two natural hybrids, Encyclia x bajamarensis and Encyclia x lucayana, heretofore unknown.
40648249|Hemi-epiphytism represents an evolutionarily important yet poorly understood growth habit in ferns. Anatomy and ontogeny related to hemi-epiphytism in the fern Vandenboschia collariata (Hymenophyllaceae) were investigated at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. Multiple specimens representing all stages of gametophyte and sporophyte growth were observed in the field, collected, and examined in the laboratory. Cross sections of sporophyte roots and stems were made by hand, and examined using light microscopy. Sporophytes were found to initiate growth on the base of trees up to ca. 25 cm above the ground. Two types of stems were produced: 1) a short stem that produces crowded roots, and 2) one or more climbing stems that branch from the short stem, climb up the trunk, and produce distant leaves but no roots. This study presents the first description of gametophytes in V collariata and clarifies ontogeny and anatomy related to the hemi-epiphytic growth habit in ferns.
2807091|Potamogeton x haynesii is described as a new species from northeastern North America. The name. P. longiligulatus has been misapplied to this plant. Following the study of type material, P. longiligulatus is placed in synonymy under P. strictifolius.
3218484|A cladistic analysis was performed using nucleotide sequence variation in the rps l6 intron and the trnL-F region (plastid DNA). Arcytophyllum belongs in a subclade of the tribe Spermacoceae (s.l.) together with the American species presently classified in the genera Hedyotis and Houstonia. This subclade is morphologically characterized by cymbiform seeds. Arcytophyllum is the sister group of all American Hedyotis and Houstonia and it is suggested that these latter would be most conveniently treated as a single genus, the correct name of which would be Houstonia. Arcytophyllum should be circumscribed such that it excludes A. serpyllaceum, which is not a member of the Arcytophyllum-Houstonia clade but more closely related to Bouvardia. The phylogeny that was reconstructed suggests that the ancestral area of the Arcytophyllum-Houstonia clade is the South American tectonic plate.
2807664| Seven new species of Lauraceae from Surinam, French Guiana, and Amap (northeastern Brazil), are described and illustrated. These are Rhodostemonodaphne elephantopus, R. leptoclada, R. morii, R. revolutifolia, R. rufovirgata, R. salensis, and R. scandens. 
2666626|The new genus Rhodothyrsus is proposed, based on the Amazonian Senefeldera macrophylla Ducke but also containing another newly described species, Rhodothyrsus hirsutus from northwestern Venezuela. The genus is a member of the tribe Hippomaneae of the Euphorbiaceae and apparently related to Senefeldera, but its closest relationships are still obscure, because the phylogeny of the tribe is poorly known and most of the significant characters of Rhodothyrsus are probably autapomorphies or symplesiomorphies. The restriction to tropical lowland rain forests is rare within the Hippomaneae, and several floral characters, pointing to a specialized pollination possibly by butterflies, are unique in the tribe.
2806423|Building upon a taxonomic treatment of Physaria published in 1939, an extension of information concerning the genus is presented. Comments on misapplication of the name P. acutifolia Rydb., a new trichome type for Physaria, and a high elevation species in Colorado are accompanied by the presentation of four new taxa. These are P. alpina, P. eburniflora, P. lepidota, and P. newberryi var. racemosa.
2807719|Satureja s.l. (Lamiaceae) is a large complex (ca. 225 spp.) that is variably treated as comprising from one to as many as 17 genera. The North American representatives are usually assigned to Calamintha, Clinopodium, Micromeria, Piloblephis, or Satureja. A recent chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis indicates that inclusion of Satureja s.str., Micromeria, and Piloblephis in the group renders it non-monophyletic. After exclusion of these three genra, a study of morphological variation in the remainder of the complex suggests that it is best treated as three genera, two of which do not occur in North America (Cyclotrichium and "Obtegomeria" [Doroszenko, ined., to be validated elsewhere]). The thrid comprises ca. 100 species, 11 of them native to North America north of Mexico. With Satureja s.str. excluded, the name with priority for the latter genus is Clinopodium. The indigenous North American species and their more frequently used synonyms are tabulated. A new combination, Clinopodium chandleri, is made.
2807029|Although Viguiera hidalgoana, a new species from Hidalgo, Mexico, bears a superficial resemblance to V. dentata, it is clearly related to certain woody species of series Grammatoglossae.
2807593|Ipomoea praematura sp. nov. differs from I. hederifolia L., its closest congener, in flower color and phenology, capsule shape, and seed shape and pubescence. Other distinguishing characteristics show some overlap with its more widespread and variable relative. The new species grows along the Caribbean coast of South America and on nearby islands. The recently described Mexican Quamoclit fissifolia McPherson is transferred as Impomoea fissifolia.
2806428|Hypomyces triseptatus Rossman & Rogerson, distinguished by its 3-(5)-septate ascospores and perithecia aggregated in discrete, white, byssoid stromata, is described from Gabon (Africa) occurring on a pyrenomycete on decorticated wood.
2807877|Fieldwork in connection with the project to document the flora of the Mixteca Alta region, northwestern Oaxaca, Mexico, has resulted in the discovery of the following taxa: Verbesina calzadae and Viguiera grammatoglossa var. huajuapana (Heliantheae); Sinclairia manriquei (Liabeae); and Psacalium schillingii (Senecioneae).
2805561| A new species, C. saueri from Gois, and a new variety, C. picta var. elliptica from Braslia, D.F., are described following the style used by Sauer in his 1964 revision of Canavalia. Illustrations of the calyx, leaf, and seed, distribution maps and type photos are provided. 
2805084|Carex chiapensis, section Fecundae, from Zontehuitz, municipio de San Cristobal de Las Casas, Chiapas, is described as new.
2806685|Tanystyloba Fantz is a section of Clitoria subgenus Neurocarpum which includes six species: C. macrophylla Wall. ex Benth., C. javanica Miq., C. australis Benth., C. hanceanan Hemsl., C. linearis Gagn., and C. cordiformis Fantz, a species endemic to Thailand.
2805079|The taxonomy of Gentiana (Gentianaceae), sect. Pneumonanthae, in eastern North America is reviewed. Two species and one variety recognized in recent literature are reduced to synonymy, while one overlooked variety is restored to recognition. Distributional data include several reductions in range resulting from examination of previously misidentified specimens. Thirteen species are native to eastern North America; all are restricted to it. Of these, three are primarily prairie species; three, Appalachian; three, coastal plain; two southern plateau; one, eastern boreal; and one, Great Lakes region to central boreal. Interfertility and occasional natural hybridization are present even among the most morphologically diverse species.
2805638|The amentiferous concept developed in pre-Linnaean times, and early botanists clearly recognized the topical similarities among plants bearing aments. Among the amentiferous plants placed side by side in early times were many that would not be so situated today-e.g., gymnosperms intermixed with dicotyledons. By the time of Linnaeus, only docotyledons were included among the ament-bearing groups. J. G. Gmelin was first to recognize ament-bearing plants (including some gymnosperms) under a single category, "Amentaceae." Linnaeus, A. L. de Jussieu, W. J. Hooker, Lindley, and Eichler, at one time or another, placed these plants in a separate amentaceous category, but never under the term "Amentiferae." The name was never used by Engler although he did place the ament-bearing plants among the first families of his Archichlamydeae. The category "Amentiferae" appears to have entered the literature in British publications and through British/English translations from the German.
2806698|Two new species of Verbesina section Ochractinia are described: V. quetamensis from Colombia, a member of the V. synethes species group and V. carangolensis from Brazil, most closely allied with V. acuminata.
30218792|A new species of Sauvagesia is described and illustrated under the name Sauvagesia paniculata. This new species is morphologically similar to the acicular-leaved species of the subsect. Vellozianae. However, S. paniculata can be clearly differentiated from the other acicular-leaved species by the paniculate inflorescence. Other diagnostic characters of S. paniculata include the shorter pedicel and longer leaves. This new species seems to be narrowly endemic to the "campo rupestre" vegetation in the Esbarrancado mountain range of Mucug, in the Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brazil. \\\ Uma nova espcie de Sauvagesia  descrita e ilustrada sob o nome Sauvagesia paniculata. Esta nova espcie  morfologicamente similar s espcies da subsect. Vellozianae que apresentam folhas aciculares. No entanto, S. paniculata  claramente diferenciada das demais espcies de folhas aciculares por possuir inflorescncia paniculada. Outros caracteres diagnsticos de S. paniculata so o pedicelo mais curto e as folhas maiores. Esta nova espcie parece ser endmica restrita da vegetao de campo rupestre da Serra do Esbarrancado em Mucug, Chapada Diamantina, Bahia, Brasil.
2807854|The 19 species of the genus Mandevilla in Mexico and Central America are treated synoptically. New synonymy is provided and a new species, Mandevilla rigidifolia, is described.
2805581|Aspects of flowering, leaf production, caudex and contractile root morphology, edaphic preferences, and systematics of Jepsonia (Saxifragaceae) are discussed. Although other authors have recognized as few as one species of Jepsonia, various lines of evidence suggest that three allopatric species can be recognized, which are morphologically distinct and separated from each other by barriers to hybridization. These species are J. heterandra of the Sierra Nevada foothills of California, J. malvifolia of southern California's offshore islands and the Mexican Guadalupe Island, and J. Parryi of mainland southern California and adjacent Baja California. Plants flower from late summer to early winter in response to environmental factors that have yet to be clearly identified. Flowers are heterostylous, and the species are self-incompatible. Pollination is by syrphid flies and halictid bees. Leaves are produced during or after flowering in response to rain. They persist through the winter until the onset of the dry season in the subsequent late spring. Plants perennate by a starchy underground structure, which is hypocotylar in origin and best termed a caudex. Young plants and many old ones also produce one or more very large, whitish, starch-free contractile roots that are annual in duration. Jepsonia heterandra characteristically is restricted to the crevices of slatelike rocks, although the other two species occur in a wider range of edaphic situations. Moisture and temperature conditions, as well as rodent predations, may determine the general and local distributions of the species. The relationships of the genus are briefly considered, and interspecific differences are described.
2807304| Descriptions, illustrations, and discussions of relationships are provided for two new species of Cavendishia collected from the region of Jardn in southern Antioquia: Cavendishia jardinensis and Cavendishia nuda. 
2805805|Six species of the genus Melampodium are described as new: M. glabribracteatum, M. nayaritense, and M. pilosum (sect. Melampodium); M. costaricense, M. nutans, and M. sinaloense (sect. Zarabellia). Chromosome numbers for M. nutans and M. Pilosum are reported as n = 11 and n = 10 respectively.
3218530|Three new species of ferns are described from Mexico: Athyrium tripinnatum, Cystopteris millefolia, and Polypodium praetermissum.
41406791|A new species of Almeidea (Rutaceae) belonging to the neotropical tribe Galipeeae (subtribe Galipeinae) is described and illustrated. This new species, Almeidea albiflora, is known so far only from a few collections made in small disturbed forest remnants in the vicinity of Cachoeiro de Itapemirim, in the state of Espirito Santo, and by a single collection from northern Rio de Janeiro state, both in the domain of the Atlantic Forest, Eastern Brazil. Diagnostic features, like white petals, sericeous ovary and distal secondary axes as long as the proximal ones are identified. Pollen morphology is also described, and brief discussions of the relationships of the new taxon to other species of Almeidea, as well as comments on its conservation status, are provided.
2805804|Coreopsis mutica is highly variable species occurring in the highlands from Central Mexico southeastward barely into El Salvador and Honduras. It is not continuous over this range, however, but is found in three geographic population centers: one in Guatemala and Chiapas, a second in Oaxaca, and the third in Central Mexico. Populations in Guatemala and Chiapas are uniform in chromosome number (2n = 56), leaf flavonoid chemistry, and morphology. Var. microcephala is proposed to accommodate these assemblages. Plants comprising populations centered around Cd. Oaxaca have a chromosome number of 2n = ca. 112. This large complex consists of two distinct varieties and their putative hybrids. Those plants to the northwest of Cd. Oaxaca (var. subvillosa) are constant in leaf flavonoid chemistry (producing only flavones) and possess a combination of distinctive morphological traits. To the southeast of Cd. Oaxaca plants invariably contain flavonols and anthochlors in their leaves in addition to flavones. Moreover, these plants (the newly proposed var. carnosifolia) are readily separable from var. subvillosa by a number of morphological features. Evidence is presented that the two taxa hybridize in the vicinity of Cd. Oaxaca. On the southeastern edge of the var. subvillosa-var. carnosifolia complex a population was encountered which has a chromosome number of 2n = 56 and a very distinctive morphology and flavonoid chemistry. These plants have been accorded taxonomic status as var. multiligulata. Two morphologically similar, yet distinguishable, varieties occur in Central Mexico. It has been determined that the two differ also in chromosome number and leaf flavonoid chemistry. One taxon (var. leptomera) has a chromosome complement of 2n = 56 and produces only flavones in its leaves, whereas var. mutica has a chromosome number of 2n = ca. 112 and produces flavones, flavonols, and anthochlors.
23254276|Trimezia campanula (Iridaceae: Iridoideae), here described and illustrated, is endemic to Capara Mountains, Brazil. The new species broadens the circumscription of Trimezia. Its distinctive features include a golden-yellow campanulate perianth and filiform style branches with undivided apices that lack crests and have an apical stigmatic zone. The flowers of T. campanula most closely resemble those of Pseudotrimezia, but species of that genus have yellow anthers and cylindrical leaves, whereas T. campanula has black anthers and flat leaves. Although different from the other species of Trimezia, the new species is here placed because of a combination of characters that includes cylindrical flowering stems, flat leaves, a spotted perianth, and ellipsoid fruits. Phylogenetic analyses also strongly support its inclusion in Trimezia, where the new species emerges in a clade close to T. martinicensis, the type species of the genus. Trimezia campanula (Iridaceae), aqui descrita e ilustrada,  endmica da Serra do Capara, Brasil. A nova espcie amplia a delimitao do gnero Trimezia. Seus caracteres distintivos so o perianto campanulado, com tpalas amarelo-ouro, e o pice dos estiletes inteiro, sem cristas e com zona estigmtica apical. As flores de T. campanula assemelham-se mais s de Pseudotrimezia, mas as espcies deste gnero possuem anteras amarelas e folhas cilndricas, enquanto T. campanula possui anteras negras e folhas planas. Embora diferente das restantes Trimezia, a nova espcie  posicionada neste gnero devido  combinao de caracteres como ramos da inflorescncia cilndricos, folhas planas, perianto ornamentado e frutos elipsides. A incluso de T. campanula em Trimezia  tambm corroborada por anlises filogenticas que a situa no mesmo clado e prxima de T. martinicensis, a espcie-tipo do gnero.
2806310|Hackelia ibapensis, a new species of Boraginaceae (Subfamily Boraginoideae, Tribe Eritrichieae) from the Deep Creek Range of Utah is described and illustrated.
2807494|Recent research for floristic treatments of the Anacardiaceae led to the discovery of three new species of Thyrsodium: T. rondonianum, T. bolivianum, and T. puberulum. Historically, the genus was confused with the burseraceous genus Garuga. Study of these genera has helped to refine our understanding of the relationships between the Anacardiaceae and Burseraceae. A revised description of Thyrsodium, a key to the species in the genus, descriptions, distribution maps, and notes on the distribution and ecology of all the species are provided.
3218521| The restriction site and size variation of five PCR amplified fragments of non coding chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) was examined in material from 13 populations of Panax from Nepal and China. Fourteen restriction endonucleases produced 81 restriction site and length variations from the large single-copy region of cpDNA, 27 of which are polymorphic. The cpDNA dataset suggests two distinct groups of Panax from Nepal (clades I and II). Clade I consists of two populations of P. pseudoginseng subsp. pseudoginseng, and clade II is composed of material referrable to P. pseudoginseng subsp. himalaicus (vars. himalaicus, angustifolius, and bipinnatifidus). The three accessions of P. pseudoginseng subsp. japonicus and P. ginseng studied from China had cpDNA characters that differed from the Himalayan Panax. The highly distinctive cpDNA profile and morphology of P. pseudoginseng subsp. pseudoginseng sensu Hara (1970) from central Nepal support its status as a separate species, which has an extremely restricted distribution. 
2806815|Byttneria morri L. Barnett & Dorr from French Guiana is described and illustrated, and its taxonomic affinities are discussed. Also, a key to the species of Byttneria that occur in the Guianas is provided.
30218817|Se describe Tibouchina sericea, una nueva especie de Melastomataceae que se encuentra en localidades aisladas con bosques de Pinus del sur de Mxico. Esta especie se asemeja a T. nanifolia, una especie rara, en la pubescencia corta y abierta del tallo y las anteras amarillas subisomrficas, pero difiere en las hojas abolladas y en los pelos del hipantio con la base globosa. /// Tibouchina sericea, a new species of Melastomataceae from isolated pine forests of southern Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species resembles the rare T nanifolia in the short and open pubescence of the stem, and the yellow subisomorphic anthers, but differs in the bullate leaves and the bulla-based hypanthial hairs.
2805432|This paper presents evidence which leads the authors to propose the reduction of Coreopsis cardaminefolia (DC.) Nutt. to synonymy under C. tinctoria Nutt. Coreopsis cardaminefolia and C. tinctoria overlap morphologically in all characters measured, except for winging vs. nonwinging of the achenes. The winging character is shown to be dependent upon segregation at one or two loci. Both "species" have chromosome numbers of 2n = 24 and 2n = 26. The basic number is x = 12, with some plants showing a supernumerary pair of chromosomes, which apparently undergo post-meiotic preferential distribution on both the maternal and paternal sides. The two taxa overlap extensively in range and occupy the same habitat, rather commonly occurring in mixed colonies. Coreopsis tinctoria is redefined to include the intrapopulational variation heretofore designated C. cardaminefolia.
2806416|The new genus Barnebya is described and illustrated and its systematic position in the Malpighiaceae is discussed, especially its similarity in some respects to the primitive subfamily Byrsonimoideae and in other respects to the Old World genus Acridocarpus. Two species are recognized, B. dispar comb. nov. and B. harleyi sp. nov.; these are described and illustrated and a key is provided for their distinction.
2805794|A new genus of ferns, Sinephropteris, is described from southeast Asia. Its one species, S. delavayi (Franch.) Mickel, has most recently been placed in Schaffneria, an otherwise monotypic Mexican genus, but there is evidence that they are not closely related.
2806124|All neotropical genera previously included in the tribe Isertieae A. Rich. ex DC. are considered. The tribe Isertieae is here delimited by the following characters: absence of rhaphides, valvate aestivation of the corolla, cordiform or discoid placenta, fleshy indehiscent fruit, and seed coat cells with pitted walls. As so delimited, the tribe definitely includes the neotropical genera Isertia Schreb., Gonzalaguina Ruiz & Pav., Amphidasya Standl., Raritebe Wernh., Sabicea Aubl., and Mussaenda L. as well as some paleotropical genera not here considered. The following neotropical genera are excluded from tribe Isertieae: Hippotis Ruiz & Pav., Pentagonia Benth., Sommera Schlecht., Tammsia Karst., Coccocypselum P. Browne, Schradera Vahl, Didymochlamys Hook. f., and Xerococcus Oerst. The position of four genera, Striolaria Ducke, Patima Aubl., Habroneuron Standl., and Neosabicea Wernh., remains uncertain due to a lack of material.
30218781|This paper re-examines the species of Triplophyllum in the neotropics. The indument of the laminae (hairs and glands) provides many characteristics for distinguishing the species. Nine species are recognized, including three new ones: T. boliviense, T. chocoense, and T. glabrum. New combinations are made for T. hirsutum and T. perpilosum. A key is provided to distinguish the species, and all species are described and illustrated. The spores of the neotropical species are like those from African and Madagascan species. As such, they offer no evidence to determine whether the neotropical species form a monophyletic clade within the genus. /// Este trabalho re-examina as espcies de Triplophyllum nos Neotrpicos. O indumento da lmina (tricomas e glndulas) fornece muitas caractersticas para o reconhecimento das espcies. Nove espcies so reconhecidas, incluindo trs espcies novas: T. boliviense, T. chocoense e T. glabrum. Novas combinaes so feitas para T. hirsutum e T. perpilosum. Uma chave  apresentada para identificao das espcies e todas esto descritas e ilustradas. Os esporos das espcies neotropicais so semelhantes aos das espcies da frica e Madagascar. Da mesma forma, eles no oferecem evidncias para determinar se as espcies neotropicais formam um clado monofiltico dentro do gnero.
2666537|Principal coordinate analysis using Gower's similarity coefficient and canonical discriminant analysis were performed using morphological data to assess species distinctness in the Cardamine concatenata alliance, comprising the eastern North American dentarias. The results of an overall principal coordinate analysis of the alliance using quantitative and qualitative characters revealed distinct and separate clusters that correspond to five previously recognized species (C. angustata, C. concatenata, C. diphylla, C. dissecta, C. maxima). One additional taxon, C. incisa, was found to group closely with the C. diphylla cluster. In a second principal coordinate analysis including only individuals from C. diphylla and C. incisa, both are supported as distinct morphological entities. Canonical discriminant analysis of only above-ground quantitative characters was less effective in distinguishing previously recognized taxa, in keeping with the emphasis on qualitative characters in previous taxonomic treatments of the group. Cardamine incisa (Eames) Schumann (pro hybr.) is raised to the rank of species. A key to the species of the Cardamine concatenata alliance is provided.
2806420|Three new species of Tibouchina. T. barnebyana, T. lithophila, and T. oreophila, all from Bahia, Brazil, are described and discussed. Tibouchina barnebyana and trichomes of T. oreophila are illustrated.
3218393| Three new species of Ocotea (O. disjuncta, O. iridescens, and O. rovirosae) from southern Mexico are described and illustrated. Ocotea disjuncta is related to the O. effusa group, while O. iridescens seems to be related to the O. heydeana group. The relationships of O. rovirosae are not clear. /// [Spanish]Se describen e ilustran tres especies nuevas de Ocotea del sur de Mxico (O. disjuncta, O. iridescens y O. rovirosae). Ocotea disjuncta est relacionada con el grupo de O. effusa, en tanto O. iridescens parece estar relacionada con el grupo de O. heydeana. Las relaciones de O. rovirosae son inciertas. 
2806784|Draba streptobrachia Price is an alpine species endemic to Colorado, U.S.A. It was treated by Hitchcock (1941) as Draba spectabilis var. dasycarpa (Schulz) C. L. Hitchc., but is distinct from D. spectabilis Greene in morphology, habitat, and chromosome number (g=ca 32 in D. streptobrachia, versus g=10 and 16 in D. spectabilis) and therefore has been raised to the rank of species. Pollen ferility in D. streptobrachia is at or near zero and anthers consistently fail to dehisce, but fertile seeds are still produced, suggesting that the taxon reproduces by agamospermy.
2805627|Phlox pilosa ssp. pilosa and P. pilosa ssp. fulgida form a zone of secondary intergradation extending from northern Illinois and Indiana along the prairie-forest border to southwestern Missouri. The structure of the zone was analyzed in Illinois and Indiana. Trichome morphology offered the only diagnostic characteristic. Character gradients in the zone are highly irregular and steeply sloping. Closely adjacent populations often have disparate phenotype distributions. Most populations are strongly skewed toward the parental ends of the morphological spectrum. The porperties of the zone are attributed to genome incompatibility, which is seen in the crossability barriers between the two subspecies and between the subspecies and hybrids, a reduction in pollen fertility, anther size and fecundity in hybrids, and the formation of multiple nucleoli in the hybrids. Subspecies fulgida appears to be the primary recipient of alien gene flow. However, the position of the zone ostensibly is stabilized by the presence of an ecological barrier.
2807779|A taxonomic revision of two of the four genera in the rutaceous subtribe Pteleinae is presented. Helietta and Balfourodendron are neotropical taxa that share trifoliolate leaves, terminal thyrses, small isostemonous flowers, syncarpous 4-5-carpellate ovaries, winged fruits, and seeds with endosperm. They differ mainly in that Balfourodendron has leaf domatia and a samara with broad verticillate wings while Helietta lacks domatia and has a fruit that separates into free samaroid mericarps, each with a dorsal wing. Two species are recognized in Balfourodendron, B. riedelianum and B. molle, the latter being a new combination. Helietta comprises 8 species, including a new combination, H. glaziovii. Keys to the species, descriptions, synonyms, illustration, and comments on the geographic distribution and ecology of each taxon are presented.
2807374|Krameria bahiana B. B. Simpson is described fro Bahia, Brazil. The species occurs in restinga vegetation on relic dunes near the city of Salvador and on mesas in the interior of the state.
2806776|Four new monocotyloid Eryngia, E. ferrisiae, E. venustum, E. mexiae, and E. tzeltal from Mexico, are described, illustrated, and contrasted with related taxa.
3218353|A new genus of Polygonaceae subfam. Eriogonoideae is established for what has long been known as Eriogonum puberulum. Named Johanneshowellia in honor of the late John Thomas Howell (1903-1994), a new combination, J. puberula, and a new species, J. crateriorum, are established. The common name Howell's-buckwheat is proposed for the group. The new genus differs from other members of the subfamily in having its involucral structure reduced to a spiral of four to seven bracts each of which is associated with a flower-bearing pedicel and a basal bractlet. In bud and early anthesis the outer two (rarely outer three) bracts may be partially connate, but typically become separate at full anthesis. The connate, ternate, foliar bracts at the base of the node act as a traditional Eriogonum-like involucre surrounding the branches of the inflorescence, the involucral bracts, and the flowers. Members of the new genus are found in the arid Intermountain West of the United States from Inyo Co., California, across Nevada to western Utah.
2805872|Prenanthella is re-established as a genus distinct from Lygodesmia on the basis of morphological, palynological, and chromosomal data. Possible relationships of Prenanthella to other Stephanomerinae and to the genus Crepis are suggested.
2807073|Errors by Rataj in lecto- and neotypification of five names in Echinodorus are corrected. These errors include the selection of lectotype specimens that were not cited in the protologue and the designation of neotypes from syntypes. Lectotypes for four of the names are designated here. The other is not typified at this time, as we have as yet been unable to examine the cited collections. In addition, a lectotype is designated for the Linnaean name Alisma cordifolia, a name for which Rataj did not choose a lectotype. A new species, Echinodorus reticulatus, is described and illustrated. Five new combinations at the subspecies level are proposed, with most of these subspecies having a distribution from Central America to Paraguay and Argentina.
2806559|Chamaesyce is accepted at the genus level for the Hawaiian taxa. The following new combinations are made: C. celastroides var. laehiensis, C. celastroides var. tomentella, C. rockii var. grandifolia, C. skottsbergii var. vaccinioides, and C. sparsiflora.
41406794|Se describen e ilustran cinco especies nuevas de Aechmea (Bromeliaceae: Bromelioideae) para Colombia: A. confertiflora y A. viridispica del norte de los Andes, A. longipedunculata y A. longiramosa de la planicie amaznica y A. baudoensis de la regin biogeogrfica del Choc. Adems, para cada especie se presentan notas sobre sus relaciones taxonmicas, estado de conservacin, habitat y distribucin. Five new species of Aechmea (Bromelioideae: Bromeliaceae) from Colombia are described and illustrated: A. confertiflora and A. viridispica from the Northern Andes, A. longipedunculata and A. longiramosa from the Amazon basin, and A. baudoensis from the rainforest of the Choc region. Notes on the taxonomic relationships, habitat and distribution, and conservation status are also presented for each species.
2807823|Lupinus rubriflorus Planchuelo, from Rio Grande do Soul, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This species is related to L. bracteolaris s.l. differing in pubescence, stipules, and floral characters.
2805762|Coreopsis mcvaughii, a small fruticose species known only from the State of Aguascalientes, Mexico, is described as new. It is assigned to sect. Pseudo-Agarista.
30218811|Quesnelia koltesii and Q. clavata, two new species of Bromeliaceae, are described and illustrated, and their affinities with related taxa are discussed. Both species are endemic to southern Bahia, occur in low population densities above 600 m elevation, and must be considered to be endangered. /// Quesnelia koltesii and Q. clavata, duas novas espcies de Bromeliaceae, so descritas e ilustradas, com discusso acerca de suas afinidades taxonmicas. Ambas as espcies so endmicas para o sul da Bahia, ocorrem em populaes de baixa densidade acima de 600 m de altitude e devem ser consideradas como ameaadas de extio.
2806214|Four new species (Connarus celatus, C. Marlenei, C. portosegurensis and C. rigidus) and four new varieties (Connarus erianthus var. pedicellatus, C. erianthus var. stipitatus, C. perrottetii var. rufus, and C. venezuelanus var. orinocensis) are described and illustrated, in preparation for the forthcoming Monograph of the Connaraceae in Flora Neotropica.
2805975|Three new tropical American species of Sematophyllum are described with relatively broad leaves and short upper leaf cells: S. cubense, S. cataractae, and S. oedophysidium. The Central American S. apaloblastum and S. barnesii are new combinations. Sematophyllum galipense. S. amnigenum, and S. cochleatum are briefly discussed.
2807232|Townsendia gypsophila, a new species from Sandoval Co., New Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is a narrowly distributed obligate gypsophile closely related to T. fendleri adn T. incana. It overlaps the ranges of the two taxa at the edge of their distributional limits in New Mexico.
2806329|Carex hermannii, a new species known only from a few populations on large volcanic mountains on the Puebla-Mexico state border, central Mexico, is described, illustrated and compared with its nearest relative, C. cuchumatanensis of Guatemala. Both these species have been confused until now with the more distantly related C. endlichii. Morphological comparisons of C. hermannii, C. cuchumatanensis and C. endlichii confirm the distinctiveness of these species.
2807439|Leptocereus santamarinae is newly described as endemic to the dry evergreen forests of the keys and mainland coast of northeastern Cuba. Its closet relationship appears to be with L. sylvestris, of the southeastern coastal woods of Cuba. A key to the twelve known species of Leptocereus in provided.
2807205|A new species, Nyssa talamancana, with fruits larger than those of any other, either living or fossil, is described from Costa Rica and Panama. In size, number of germination valves, and surface-sculpturing, its endocarps resemble those of the fossil assemblage more than those of the other living species. The occurrence of this distinctive new member of a definitely Laurasian family, in association with other endemic or nearly endemic Laurasian taxa, at wet mid-elevations lends credence to the idea that these forests harbor remnants of the really ancient flora of southern Central America.
2807009|Geranium hanaense, a new species endemic to two small montane bogs (20 ha total) on northeast Haleakala, Maui, Hawaiian Islands, is described. This new species is postulated to have evolved from the high elevation xeromorphic species, G. cuneatum, in a fashion similar to that of the two other bog Geranium species. The ecology and evolution of Hawaiian Geranium species, including G. hanaense, are discussed.
2806937| A new moss, Paranapiacabaea paulista, is described from the Serra do Mar of the state of So Paulo, Brazil. It is characterized by erect, narrowly flask-shaped capsules with a pale peristome, blunt, papillose exostome teeth, and an endostome with segments longer than the exostome teeth. Its relationships to Donnellia, Pterogoniopsis, and Maguireella are discussed. The combination Maguireella vulpina (Mont.) Buck is validated. 
4497367| We describe four new species of Ruellia from Costa Rica; three from the Osa Peninsula, Puntarenas province (R. exilis, R. mira, R. odorata), and one from the southwestern corner of San Jos province (R. norvegigratiosa). Ruellia matagalpae is reported as a new record for the country. New combinations are made in Ruellia for the two Costa Rican species of Blechum (R. blechum and R. costaricensis). Three species are reduced to synonymy, and another species is considered doubtfully worthy of recognition. Notable range extensions are reported for two species. Corollas and fruits of all 22 Costa Rican species of Ruellia are shown and compared as easily used identification aids. An informal guide to species groups and a dichotomous key to the 22 species are presented. /// Se describen y se ilustran cuatro especies nuevas para la ciencia de Ruellia para Costa Rica; tres de la Pennsula de Osa, provincia de Puntarenas (R. exilis, R. mira, R. odorata) y una del extremo suroeste de la provincia de San Jos (R. norvegigratiosa). Reportamos a Ruellia matagalpae como especie encontrada en el pas por primera vez. Se proponen nuevas combinaciones en Ruellia para las dos especies de Blechum que se encuentran en Costa Rica (R. blechum y R. costaricensis). Tres especies son reducidas a sinonimia y una cuarta especie es presentada como dudosa. Se reportan extensiones de la distribucin geogrfica para dos especies. Presentamos ilustraciones de las corolas y los frutos de las 22 especies costaricenses de Ruellia; estas estructuras presentan caractersticas muy tiles para la identificacin. Las 22 especies de Ruellia se contrastan en un gufa informal para grupos de especies y en una clave dicotmica. 
41406775|The genus Lophogyne is revised based on recent collections and examination of type material. The two nominal species, Lophogyne arculifera and Lophogyne helicandra, are herein placed in synonymy under the new combination Lophogyne lacunosa (previously published as Marathrum lacunosum), rendering the genus monotypic. A detailed description and a distribution map of the genus is presented. Lophogyne lacunosa is assigned to the EN Blab (iii) category of the IUCN red list of threatened species. O gnero Lophogyne  revisto com base em observaes de coletas recentes e dos tipos. Duas espcies nominais, Lophogyne arculifera e Lophogyne helicandra, so sinonimizadas com Lophogyne lacunosa (previamente publicada como Marathrum lacunosum), tornando o gnero monotipico. Uma descrio detalhada e um mapa de distribuio e apresentado. Lophogyne lacunosa  considerada como pertencente  categoria EN Blab (iii) da lista vermelha de espcies ameaadas da IUCN.
2806200| Supplementing the last revision (Irwin & Rogers, 1967) and reflecting ten years productive exploration in Brazil, these notes present a redefinition of the section, keys to all taxa, some of them newly modified in circumscription or rank, full synonymy, statements of range, and descriptions of C. aspleniifolia (Esprito Santo), C. eitenorum (Maranho to Bahia, 2 vars), C. compitalis (s. Bahia) and C. boyanii (Territorio do Roraima), these raising the census of the section from 13 to 15 species. 
2807299|The wood anatomy of Phragmotheca (Bombacaceae) is described based on three species and three specimens. The wood feature of Phragmotheca, Matisia, and Quararibea are very similar and differ only in the size of the intervascular pits and vessel diameters. Based on wood anatomical characteristics, these three genera form a distinct and homogeneous group within both the tribe Quararibeae and the family Bombacaceae.
2805798|A new species from Costa Rica, Aristolochia translucida, is described its relationships to other species detailed.
2666559|A new species, Aspidosperma thomasii, collected in the vicinity of Urucuea is described. It belongs to subgenus Aspidosperma section Aspidosperma and is closely related to the A. parvifolium A. DC. group.
4098962| Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de bamb leoso (Poaceae: Bambusoideae), Chusquea guirigayensis. Se ubica a esta especie dentro de Chusquea seccin Swallenochloa (McClure) L. G. Clark debido a su hbito arbustivo, sus entrenudos cortos y cerosos, su ramificacin intravaginal, y el arreglo linear de sus yemas/ramas subsidiarias. As mismo, se hacen comentarios sobre especies afines, y se mencionan aspectos ecolgicos y geogrficos de su distribucin. Se presentan dos claves para identificar a ejemplares frtiles o estriles de las especies venezolanas de C. seccin Swallenochloa. /// A new species of woody bamboo (Poaceae: Bambusoideae), Chusquea guirigayensis, is described and illustrated. This species is placed in Chusquea sect. Swallenochloa (McClure) L. G. Clark because of its shrubby habit, short waxy internodes, intravaginal branching, and linearly arranged subsidiary buds/branches. In addition, we discuss related species, and describe the ecology and distribution of the new species. Separate keys based on sterile and fertile material of the Venezuelan species of C. sect. Swallenochloa are provided. 
2806511|Dion tomasellii sp. nov. occurs with an interrupted distribution from Guerrero to central Sonora. It is characterized by falcate to subfalcate leaflets. The populations from Sonora and northern Sinaloa are segregated as D. tomasellii var. sonorense on the basis of their narrower and glaucous leaflets.
2806072|Lomatium tuberosum Hoover, a south-central Washington endemic, has been considered to be closely related to three other normally purple-flowered lomatiums: L. colombianum, L. cuspidatum, and L. minus. Recent morphologic studies confirm the close phenetic relationship of these four species. Chromosome counts from a purple-flowered population in the eastern range of L. tuberosum indicates n = 11, the same chromosome number earlier determined with yellow-flowered plants from the type locality.
3218508|Rhynchospora pseudomacrostachya (Cyperaceae) is restricted to the southern Brazil states of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina. Previously, material of R. pseudomacrostachya had been thought to belong to R. corniculata var. macrostachya (Torr. ex A. Gray) Britton (R. macrostachya Torr. ex A. Gray) of North America. However, R. pseudomacrostachya can be distinguished from the North American taxon on the basis of achene and inflorescence characters.
2807222|The Fontinalaceae in the Welch Herbarium, now deposited in the New York Botanical Garden Herbarium (NY), consist of 8034 packets, 385 of which represent 118 types. Three appendices provide: a) a list of known Fontinalaceae types in the Welch Herbarium; b) a list of collectors of Fontinalaceae whose collections were studied by Welch after the publication of her monograph in 1960; and c) a list of Welch's collecting trips outside of Indiana.
2807619|The history of the genus Parajubaea is summarized. A description of the genus is given, followed by a key to, and descriptions of both species. The origin of the cultivated P. cocoides is discussed.
2806663|Bidens longistlya, an annual species with a square stem and yellow rays, known only from the States of Nuevo Len and Coahuila, Mexico, is described as new.
40792896|We describe and illustrate Capparidastrum tuxtlense, a narrow endemic, known only from the eastern slopes of Volcn San Martn, (10 450 m), Veracruz, Mexico. Capparidastrum tuxtlense is similar to Capparidastrum discolor, but differs by foliar, floral, and fruit characters. A discussion of putative relatives and a key to the Central American species of Capparidastrum are included. Describimos e ilustramos Capparidastrum tuxtlense, una especie endmica local, restringida a la porcin baja oriental del Volcn San Martn (10-450 m), en el estado de Veracruz, Mxico. Capparidastrum tuxtlense es similar a Capparidastrum discolor, pero difiere por caracteres foliares, florales y del fruto. Se discuten sus relaciones con las putativas especies cercanas y una clave de identificacin para las especies Centroamericanas de Capparidastrum es aqu provista.
30219395|Croton campanulatus, a new species from southeastern Brazil in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio de Janeiro, is here described and illustrated. Morphological data indicate that this species belongs to Croton section Cleodora based on its arborescent habit, pistillate flowers with imbricate sepals, reduced petals, and multifid styles that are fused at the base.
2806785|The lectorype of S. eriocephala was selected from the vegetaive specimens collected by Michaux in the Mississippi River valley in the fall of 1795. Its identity is the same as that which recently has been known as S. missouriensis or S. rigida var. vestita. Since these taxa are not specifically distinct from S. rigida the name S. eriocephala takes priority as the correct name for this wide-ranging North American species.
2807094|Astragalus neobarnebyanus, a new Peruvian species from Lomas de Atiquipa, Dept. Arequipa, is described and illustrated; its relationships with other South American species are discussed.
2806520|A new species of Quararibea, remarkable in its diminutive size, "palmoid" growth form, very large oblanceolate-obovate leaves, and cauliflory, is described and illustrated. (Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Quararibea, muy notable por su tamano diminuto, su forma de crecimiento palmoide, sus hojas oblanceoladas-obovadas y muy grandes, y su estado caulifloro.)
2806069|Four new Ecuadorian species of Habracanthus, H. asplundii from Pichincha, H. laxus and H. lugonis from Tungurahua, and H. luteynii from Napo, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives.
2807671|Carex ozarkana, a new species from Arkansas, Oklahoma, and extreme northeasternmost Texas is described and illustrated. It is a distinctive regional endemic of mineral soil wetlands most similar to the widespread Carex albolutescens and C. longii but differing in its elongate, nodding inflorescences (on robust plants), prominently clavate spikes with elongate staminate bases, reddish brown pistillate and staminate scales, and wider achenes with a long apiculum.
2805852|The genus Bunchosia is ascribed to Humboldt, Bonpland & Kunth and should be cited as Bunchosia Rich. ex H.B.K. Three new Central American species, B. brevisurcularis, B. ternata, and B. tutensis, are described, illustrated and plotted on a distribution map.
2807273|A taxonomic study of the stipitate terrestrial hydnums of Florida was undertaken. Eleven species belonging to Hydnellum, Phellodon, and Sarcodon were found. Of these, Phellodon implicatus is described as new and a microscopic analysis showed that this species is the second known Phellodon with abundant clamp connections in the tramal tissue.
4497348|Phylogenies inferred from both chloroplast and nuclear DNA regions have placed the small genus Dodecatheon (the shooting stars; 17 spp.) among the descendants of the most recent common ancestor of Primula (the primroses; ca. 430 spp.). This is congruent with conclusions previously derived from morphology and cytology. We illustrate how failure to formalize this information in the circumscription of Primula might have impeded understanding of the evolution of distyly (as seen in Primula) and buzz-pollination (as seen in Dodecatheon). To avoid future confusion, we make new combinations for Dodecatheon in Primula, and erect Primula sect. Dodecatheon in Primula subgenus Auriculastrum for the taxa from Dodecatheon.
2805587|A study of herbarium material of Lepanthes indicates that there are at least 18 species on Cuba. The history of the collections and publications on the genus from the island is summarized, and a detailed key to the species is given. One new combination is proposed (L. blepharophylla) and the following species are described as a new: L. acunae, L. dressleri, L. cubensis, L. grisebachiana, L. obliquiloba, and L. occidentalis, of which three are from western provinces and two have been associated with inappropriate names. L. mandibularis Reichb. f. is tentatively considered a synonym of L. chrysostigma Lindl. although the type of L. mandibularis could not be found. The range of variation included under the name L. fulva Lindl. suggests that more than one species is involved.
2805790| Gustavia monocaulis from east-central Panama, G. Sessilis from the Choc of Colombia, and G. flagellata, including two varieties (var. flagellata and var. costata) from the north central coast of Venezuela, are described and their relationships with other Gustavia species discussed. 
2807660|From French Guiana Disciphania moriorum is formally described and illustrated, and a second, imperfectly known member of the genus is provisionally recorded. From Bahia Curarea crassa is new, and Abuta convexa (Vell.) Diels is added to the state flora. A conspectus of Menispermaceae presently known from Bahia, a key to both sexes of the taxa, and brief indications of their ecology are provided.
4099020|A summary is presented of all Bolivian species of Cyatheaceae and Dicksoniaceae. In total two species of Dicksoniaceae (Culcita 1 sp., Dicksonia 1 sp.) and 34 species of Cyatheaceae (Sphaeropteris 1 sp., Alsophila 5 spp., Cyathea 26 spp., Cnemidaria 2 spp.) are known. One hybrid in Cyathea is recognized. The endemic Cyathea dintelmannii is newly described, and Cyathea herzogii from Bolivia and Peru is separated from Cyathea caracasana var. boliviano. Both species are illustrated. An artificial key to the Bolivian species of Cyatheaceae is provided.
2806211|Three new species, Lubaria szczerbanii (Rutaceae), Croton guaiquinimae (Euphorbiaceae), and Stomatocaeta colveei (Asteraceae), are described from the summit of Cerro Guaiquinima, Venezuela. The generic affinities between Lubaria and Myllanthus, and between Stomatochaeta and Stenopadus are discussed.
2805759|Philactis (Compositae-Heliantheae) is a genus of three species, all of limited distribution. A revision is presented, based upon herbarium specimens and field work. Cytological data are from bud material fixed in the field, and from root tips of seedlings. The basic chromosome number appears to be 14. P. nelsonii and P. liebmannii are tetraploid (2n = 56), and P. zinnioides is hexaploid (2n = 84).
3218503| The species Echites turrigera Woodson has been considered a synonym of E. yucatanensis Millsp. Evidence presented here shows that the two species are distinct. In addition, Echites parviflora Sess & Mo. is presented here as a synonym of E. woodsoniana Monach. 
2806078|Eleven new species of mostly caesalpinioid legumes are describen: Dicymbe paruensis, Eperua prasagata, Jacqueshuberia loretensis, Macrolobium defloccatum, M. hartshornii, M. schinifolium, Swartzia acreana, S. aureosericea, S. bahiensis, S. bombycina, and S. oriximinaensis. In addition, a note is provided on Paloveopsis emarginata.
2807078|Comarostaphylis spinulosa subsp. glandulifera is described from the mountains of Oaxaca and Puebla, Mexico. Four new combinations in Comarostaphylis are also made: C. arbutoides subsp. costaricensis, C. discolor subsp. rupestris, C. polifolia subsp. minor, and C. spinulosa. Arctostaphylos glabrata, A. rupestris, and A. spinulosa are lectotypified and the status of C. polifolia is discussed.
23254273|Jacquemontia chrysanthera, a new species from northeastern Brazil, is described and illustrated, and its relationships with Jacquemontia martii and other species in section Cymosae are discussed.
3218400|Castilleja hidalgensis is described from several collections from xeric limestone sites in central Hidalgo, Mexico, The new species belongs to a small complex of poorly known and uncommon species within sect. Euchroma, sharing important characteristics with C. macrostigma, the first-described taxon in this assemblage. The new species appears to be rare and highly restricted both geographically and ecologically. A key to the species of the C. macrostigma group is provided.
2806493|Penstemon ammophilus, an endemic to Canaan Mountain in Washington Co., Utah, is described and illustrated. On the basis of anther characteristics it is placed in section Glabri, series Virgati, where it nearly links the group to section Cristati. It is distinct from all the species of both sections with its peculiar papillose-glandular pubescence.
4098984|Amaranthus pumilus is known from coastal Massachusetts to South Carolina and from ballast in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is currently listed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service as a threatened species. Amaranthus pumilus was originally described by Rafinesque in 1808 from southern New Jersey, but he did not cite specimens. Here, the name A. pumilus is lectotypified using the only known original element, a Rafinesque specimen at the herbarium of The Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia (PH).
2805659|The section Atratae is highly differentiated in the southern Rocky Mountain region where the group has developed several endemic species. Eleven species are recognized, and three new combinations are proposed: C. parryana ssp. hallii, C. parryana ssp. idahoa, and C. norvegica ssp. stevenii.
2666611|This study represents a preliminary sampling of the pericarp histology of the subtribe Iguanurinae (tribe Areceae, subfamily Arecoideae) of the family Arecaceae. At least one sample from each of the 27 recognized genera was examined and illustrated with a line drawing. This sampling serves to characterize fruit structure in the subtribe as a whole, to illustrate the diversity of pericarp adaptations found in the subtribe, to characterize the monotypic genera, to provide hypotheses about the characterization of the larger genera, and to test existing phylogenetic hypotheses about the Iguanurinae. There are no unique tissues present in the pericarp in this subtribe, but genera can be readily characterized by unique combinations and distributional patterns in common tissues. These patterns, and some prominent evolutionary trends, parallel those in related subtribes of Areceae, such as the Ptychospermatinae and Arecinae. Significant in this subtribe is variation in the distribution of tanniniferous cells, raphide-bearing cells and brachysclereids, in the sculpturing of the seed and the locular epidermis, in the thickness of the locular epidermis, in the thickness of the fibrous vascular bundle sheaths, and especially in the number, orientation and distribution of nonvascular fibrous bundles. One major trend is the formation of systems of separate fibrous bundles and their progressive displacement toward the outer layer of the fruit, where a complex exocarp may form. The diversity of pericarp structure in the Iguanurinae is far greater than in the two subtribes previously studied.
2805648|A new genus and species from Mexico, Metastevia hintonii, is described. The genus, considered to be closely related to and derived from Stevia, differs in seven morphological features from all known species of Stevia. The reasons for recognizing the new genus are discussed in detail.
2806732|Arceuthobium pendens, a parasite of the pinyons Pinus discolor and P. cembroides, is described from San Luis Potosi and Veracruz, Mexico. This and A. divaricatum Engelm. are the only dwarf mistletoes known to parasitize pinyons. Arceuthobium pendens is distinct from A. divaricatum Engelm, in its long, slender, greenish shoots, formation of systemic witches brooms, and frequency on various species of pinyons. With the discovery of this new species, 19 dwarf mistletoes are known from Mexico.
3218370|Eriotheca longitubulosa is a large, nocturnally flowering tree new to the Guianas. Floral morphology, daily phenological patterns, nectar concentration, and floral aroma were examined in order to infer pollinator type. The floral morphology and phenological data, while not necessarily typical in all features displayed by known hawkmoth-pollinated plants, suggest hawkmoth pollination by swing hovering. The presence of the sesquiterpenes alpha-farnesene and germacrene-D in the aroma supports this conclusion.
2807580|Dalechampia fernandesii, from Cear, belongs to section Tiliifoliae and is related to D. affinis and D. tiliifolia. Dalechampia armbrusteri, of subsection Dalechampia, from Bahia, is close to D. brownsbergensis of Suriname but has well developed resiniferous bractlets. Dalechampia viridissima, from Bahia and Esprito Santo, is an isolated species with the 3-lobed leaves of species in section Dalechampia subsection Dalechampia but the reduced indumentum and greenish bracts of species in section Triphyllae.
2805757|Proboscidea diversifolia is described, the type being from Michoacan. The species, which appears most similar to P. triloba (Cham. & Schlecht.) Decne., is apparently restricted to the vicinity of Apatzingan.
3218432|Trilepis Tenuis is described from the state of Rio de Janeiro, southeastern Brazil. It differs from the other four species of Trilepis in its delicate habit and combined features of the contraligules and fructifications.
2805830|Castilleja subgenus Castilleja in the northern half of Mexico consists of nine species, which are treated here. The subgenus is characterized by a conspicuously colored calyx that is much more deeply cleft in front (abaxially) than in back (adaxially). Castilleja rhizomata, C. linifolia, C. mevanghii, and C. pterocaulon are described as new, and are illustrated and mapped. The first three are compared to C. patriotica and C. tenuiflora, their closest relatives in the Tenuiflorae group, and the fourth is compared to C. ortegae, with which it constitutes the Ortegae group. Castilleja roei and C. tenuifolia of the Epichroma group are included in order to complete the census of subgenus Castilleja as encountered in the region of the new species. A key to the nine species of subgenus Castilleja from the northern half of Mexico is provided.
3218492| Five new taxa of Heteropterys H. B. K. subsect. Aptychia Nied. are described, illustrated, and mapped: H. andina from Peru; H. minutiflora from Costa Rica; and H. bullata, H. capixaba, and H. oberdanii, from the Atlantic coastal forest of Brazil. The affinities and diagnostic characters of each species are discussed. /// [Spanish] Cinco taxa de Heteropterys H. B. K. subsect. Aptychia Nied. so descritas como novas, ilustradas e mapeadas: H. andina do Peru; H. minutiflora da Costa Rica; e H. bullata, H. capixaba e H. oberdanii, da Floresta Atlntica no Brasil. So apontadas as afinidades e os caracteres diagnsticos de cada espcie. 
2805791|Two new species of Lecythidaceae from Brazilian Amazonia are described and illustrated: Cariniana penduliflora and Couratari atrovinosa. Details of the pollination of Couratari atrovinosa are given, the principal pollinator being a Euglossine bee, Eulaema meriana Oliv.
2666525|Flavonoid chemistry of the genus Mulinum and selected Mulineae taxa was studied. Both flavones and flavonols were identified as C- and O-glycosides. All Mulinum species contain 6,8-di-C-glycosyl chrysoeriol (flavone) and, with the exception of one, quercetin (flavonol). The presence of both flavones and flavonols in this genus weakens previous generalizations that the Mulineae contain only flavonols and are primitive compared to other Apiaceae tribes. Based on the selected taxa studied, Azorella appears to differ from both Mulinum and Gymnophyton in producing more kinds of flavonols, and Gymnophyton appears similar to Mulinum in the production of both chrysoeriol and quercetin as well as relatively few compounds. The flavonoid profile of Asteriscium glaucum is reported as well. In general, a more homogeneous flavonoid compound composition for the Apiaceae is suggested.
2806798|Preliminary studies toward a treatment of the Malvaceae of Mexico have led to the discovery of four new taxa of Abutilon and two new combinations in Allowissadula. In addition, a new Brazilian species of Pavonia is described.
41406774|The new species Sauvagesia lagevianae is described, illustrated, and discussed. This species is morphologically similar to S. glandulosa, but can be easily distinguished by its unique umbellate inflorescence arising from a distinct peduncle on the branch apex. Other diagnostic characters to identify S. lagevianae are the nodding, campanulate corollas, bi-apiculate anthers, and the small and strongly imbricate leaves with fewer and ascending secondary veins. The new species is only known from two nearby localities of "campo rupestre" vegetation in the Espinhaco range of Minas Gerais, Brazil. A nova espcie Sauvagesia lagevianae  descrita, ilustrada e discutida. Esta espcie  morfologicamente relacionada  S. glandulosa, mas pode ser facilmente diferenciada pela sua infloresncia nica, formada por uma umbela terminal sustentada por um pednculo distinto no pice dos ramos. Outros caracteres diagnsticos para identificar S. lagevianae so as flores com corola pndula e campanulada, anteras 2-apiculadas e as folhas pequenas e fortemente imbricadas ao longo do pice dos ramos e com nervuras secundrias arqueadas e em menor nmero. A nova espcie  conhecida somente de duas localidades prximas de campo rupestre da Cadeia do Espinhao em Minas Gerais, Brasil.
2805946|Monopera is described as a new genus in the Scrophulariaceae, subfamily Scrophularioideae, tribe Angeloneae. Two species are transferred from Angelonia, Monopera micrantha and Monopera perennis. These species are described and illustrated, and a key is provided.
2805806|Although several investigators have presented data suggesting that the Caprifoliaceae is polyphyletic in origin, the family has been retained as a taxon in recent classifications. Serological analyses of the taxa included within the family have been undertaken to provide additional taxonomic data. Precipitin techniques of double diffusion (Ouchterlony) and nephelometry (Boyden Procedure) were used to analyse serological similarities of seed proteins from representatives of the family. Three distinct groupings were detected for the taxa included in the Caprifoliaceae. Although Viburnum exhibited greatest serological similarity with Sambucus, Viburnum was quite distinct from all members of the family investigated. Sambucus also was somewhat distinct from the other genera and exhibited about as much serological correspondence with Cornus of the Cornaceae as with any tested member of the Caprifoliaceae. The remaining species examined formed a very close serological grouping. These data can be interpreted as supporting either a monophyletic or polyphyletic origin of the family as presently composed, because of the different arrangements of the families Caprifoliaceae and Cornaceae in the various systems of classification.
2805601|The Limnanthaceae is small family of North American herbs with uncertain internal relationships. Taxa of the family were compared on the basis of 46 flavonol glycosides occurring in all plant tissues or in petals only. The flavonoid data were analyzed by 3 numerical taxonomic techniques: 1) clustering by the Weighted Pair Group method considering positive and negative matches (Using Simple Matching coefficient); 2) clustering by the Weighted Pair Group method considering only positive matches (using Jaccard coefficient); 2) Varimax Factor Analysis with rotation. No significantly differenct results were produced by the two clustering methods. Factor analysis provided a clearer indication of relationships among taxa of the Limnanthaceae than did conventional clustering analysis. Apparently, ordination of taxa in three dimensions is necessary to accurately express relationships between divergent evolutionary lines of the family since much of the expressed variation in flavonoids cannot be accounted for by a one-dimensional clustering technique.
2806962|Ynesa colenda O. F. Cook has remained a poorly known palm since its description in 1942. Recent collections by the authors in Ecuador make it clear that the palm correctly belongs to Attalea, and the transfer is here made. A complete description of the palm is given, as well as notes on its relationships, distribution, pollination, and economic importance.
4497375| Molecular phylogenetic analyses of the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS 1 and ITS 2) and the 5.8S gene were used to infer a phylogeny among the ten recognized taxa of Froelichia in North America. Analyses using both maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum-likelihood (ML) depicted a low level of sequence divergence though it was sufficient in most cases to differentiate taxa. Froelichia xantusii, a species restricted to southern Baja California was shown to be the basalmost member of the group subtending three clades. Two of the clades received good bootstrap support in the MP analysis and corresponded to a genetically homogeneous E interrupta, and a clade comprising the two species E latifolia and F texana. A third clade receiving low bootstrap support contained F floridana, F gracilis, F arizonica, and E drummondii. Species diversity within the genus was centered within the Tamaulipan Brushland region of north-east Mexico and the southern portion of the US state of Texas where taxa from two of the three principal clades occurred, indicating a region of high speciation and diversification within the genus. /// Se realiz un anlisis filogentico usando secuencias del ADN ribosomal ITS1 e ITS2 (espaciador trascrito interno 1 y 2) y el gen 5.8S para determinar las relaciones entre los diez taxa reconocidos del gnero Froelichia en Norte Amrica. Se realizaron anlisis de mxima parsimonia (MP) y mxima similitud (ML) los cuales mostraron bajos niveles de divergencia gentica entre los taxa, pero suficientes para separarlos. Froelichia xantusii, una especie restringida al Sur de Baja California, es la ms basal del grupo y de la cual se separan tres clados. Dos de los clados recibieron un muy buen soporte en el anlisis de mxima parsimonia, el primero esta formado por individuos genticamente homogneos de E interrupta y el otro incluye a E latifolia y F texana. El tercer clado, que recibi un soporte bajo, incluye a E floridana, E gracilis, F arizonica y E drummondii. La mayor diversidad de especies dentro del gnero se centra dentro de la regin del Matorral Tamaulipeco del noreste de Mxico y la parte sur del estado Estadounidense de Texas, donde se encuentran represen- tantes de dos de los tres clados en Froelichia, indicando que sta es una regin con alta especiacin y diversificacin dentro del gnero. 
3218428| Plinia complanata and Plinia pauciflora, two new species from coastal forests of So Paulo state, southeastern Brazil, are described and illustrated. 
2806399|New information on the fruit, inflorescence, flower, and pollen of Phrygilanthus nudus Molina indicates that it belongs to Psittacanthus, leading to the new combination Psittacanthus nudus (Molina) Kuijt & Feuer.
2807153| Four species of Hiraea are described and discussed: H. gracieana and H. morii from Sal, French Guiana, H. longipes from the Oyapock region of French Guiana and Amap, Brazil, and H. propinqua from French Guiana and Suriname. Hiraea gracieana is illustrated. 
2805654| In the Rocky Mountains south of the Yukon Territory there are two, possibly three, Papaver species at alpine at alpine elevations. The diploid P. pygmaeum Rydb. is found only in and around the Glacier-Waterton International Park. It is a member of the alpinum complex of sect. Scapiflora and linked to the European P. alpinum L. by a chain of taxa through inner Asia. The hexaploid P. kluanense D. Lve is an alpine representative of the circumpolar radicatum complex of the same section and occurs disjunct from Alaska and Yukon south to New Mexico. In the Uintah Mountains of Utah is a small population of Papaver whose affiliation and rank within the section Scapiflora is not yet established. It seems to be related most closely to P. pulvinatum A. Tolm. and P. alaskanum Hultn. A key to the taxa of this region is presented. 
2807543| Two new Colombian species of Mendoncia, M. zarucchii from Vaups and M. antioquiensis from Antioquia, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives. A revised key to the Colombian species closely following Leonard is provided. 
2807168|Two new species, Dicliptera knappii from Guyana and D. granvillei from French Guiana, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives.
2806276|A model for speciation is given in which a taxon's phenotypic variation and concomitant variation in fitness are related to gradients within the environment. Phenotypic expression within the population are shown to undergo abrupt transitions as a result of discontinuous fitness-functions. Evidence for rapid and abrupt phenotypic variation is explored by analyses of speciation (=origination) rates within the fossil record. In general, a high correlation exists among the area/volume changes of sedimentary rocks known for each geologic period and the apparent speciation rates seen in selected vascular/non-vascular plant groups. Regressions of speciation rates on rock area/volume plots indicate that the Devonian, Carboniferous, and Permian show significant divergences (=residual) rates from predicted origination rates. he Cretaceous shows the highest residual value as a consequence of the rapid appearance of angiosperm fossils. A similar pattern in diversity changes for the mandibulate terrestrial invertebrates is also apparent. The coupled evolution of the angiosperms with specific insect groups appears to be the most tenable explanation for the residual Cretaceous origination rate of the former group. It is postulated that the angiospems have evolved in part as the result of a phytochemical costfunction such that phytophagous insects are warded off, while potential pollinators are favored. Quantitative/qualitative differences observed in the distribution of secondary metabolites may be evidence for coupled evolution. A "predatorprey mediated co-existence" between phytophagous insects and angiosperms may have served as a factor in allowing the co-existence of less than optimal plant species providing an impetus for relatively rapid speciation turnover.
2806394|Calathea schunkei from San Martin Province, Peru, is described as new. This species is distinguished by the red bracts and unusual floral morphology. The petals do not reflex at anthesis, the outer staminode is lacking, and the stigma is blunt rather than the typical "scoop" shape. These unusual floral features are shared with C. timothei, a high altitude Colombian species.
3218486|Passiflora cordistipula, a new species of subg. Passiflora, ser. Lobatae, from the state of Amazonas, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
3218531|A new species of Diplazium, D. lellingeri from Ecuador, is described and illustrated. /// [Spanish] Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Diplazium de Ecuador, D. lellingeri.
2805430|C. subbracteata var. tolucensis (sect. Ovales) and C. distentiformis (sect. Extensae) from Mexico, C. guatemalensis (sect. Longicaules) and C. caxinensis (sect. Viridiflorae) from Guatemala, and C. volcanica (sect. Ovales) from Mexico and Guatemala are described as new.
2807111|An anatomically complex structure of the seed-coat is a general characteristic of all members of the Leguminosae. Nonetheless, certain genera exhibit a particular type of seed, the "overgrown" seed, that has been defined by a developmental criterion and by more simple anatomical features of the seed-coat. Only the last criterion seems suitable for unambiguously distinguishing this type of seed, which is here referred to as "overgrown-like." This type appears to be apomorphic in the Ingeae (and probably in all the Leguminosae) and likely results from a heterochronic loss of tissue differentiation. Variations in this character may be useful at the generic level, and detailed anatomical observations reveal the occurrence of three distinct patterns. The high degree of correlation with other characters suggests that overgrown-like seeds have evolved separately at least three time in the Ingeae and that Pithecellobium s.s. may be polyphyletic. The over-grown-like seeds are likely to be an adaptive response to wet tropical climates.
2805764|The genus Hampea Schlecht. is included in the Malvaceae, tribe Gossypieae, rather than in the Bombacaceae where it was originally placed. Discussion includes the morphology, geography (central Mexico to western Colombia), reproductive cycle, utilization and vernacular names, and cytology (n = 13) of the genus. Three species have perfect flowers; the remainder are dioecious. The 16 species (and one variety) that are accepted are divided into three sections, one of which is further subdivided into three series. The following taxa are described as new: H. nutricia, H. mexicana, H. sphaerocarpa, and H. appendiculata var. longicalyx.
2807862|Five species of Gymnopus section Levipedes are reported for tropical South America. Two of these, Gymnopus macropus and G. nubicola, are newly described. Collybia laccata is considered synonymous with G. mucubajiensis comb. nov. now known from Andean Ecuador; both were originally described from the Venezuelan pramo. Gymnopus alkalivirens and G. semihirtipes are compared to G. mucubajiensis. Gymnopus spongiosus, previously known from the eastern United States, is newly reported from Colombian Quercus forests and is proposed as a new combination. Gymnopus dryophilus is, at present, not known from tropical South America, but extralimital material from nearby Costa Rica is described for comparison. No known species of Collybia s.str. have been identified from tropical South America.
2807556| Melochia section Physodium, a group of tall shrubs and small trees of Pacific and southwestern Mexico, is revised. The section, often treated as a genus, is distinguished by several characters: tree-like habit, accrescent calyces, staminodes, stipitate ovaries and fruits, and slightly to deeply retuse capsules. The last character alone sets the section apart from other Melochia sections. Descriptions of the pollen and wood of section Physodium are presented and comparisons are made to other sections of the genus. Three species are recognized: M. corymbosa, M. adenodes, and M. oaxacana sp. nov. Lectotypes are chosen for M. corymbosa and its synonyms, including several ames based on plates or collections made by Sess and Mocio. 
2806882|A complete checklist with synonymy and notes is provided for the Mexican and central American species of Picramnia. A key to all taxa of the region is included. Four new taxa (Picramnia guerrerensis, P. hirsuta, P. deflexa, and P. antidesma subsp. nicaraguensis) are described and illustrated, and a new combination (Picramnia antidesma subsp. fessonia) is made.
2806793|Tricharia vezdae is described as new from specimens collected in Tennessee, Louisiana and Florida. It is characterized by a corticolous habit, the presence of only a few steriles hairs, the unusual structure of the conidia-like hyphae on the hyphae on the hyphophores and of the ascospores.
2807445|Two new species of Ruellia, R. epallocaulos from northeastern Argentina, southern Brazil, and eastern Paraguay, and R. kleinii from southern Brazil, are described, illustrated and compared to related species.
2666562|The recent merger of Plummera into Hymenoxys is followed here. The two previously recognized species of Plummera are here treated as a single polymorphic species of Hymenoxys, H. ambigens, consisting of three varieties: var. ambigens from the Mescal, Santa Teresa, and Pinaleno Mountains of southeastern Arizona; var. floribunda from the Chiricahua, Dos Cabezas, Dragoon, Little Dragoon, and Mule Mountains of southeastern Arizona; and var. neomexicana described here from the Animas and Peloncillo Mountains of southwestern New Mexico.
2806018|Anechites Grisebach is a rarely collected genus of Apocynaceae indigenous to the Caribbean, Central America, and coastal northern South America. It is infrequent where it occurs and has a problematic taxonomic history. The genus is described and illustrated, its important morphological characters, history, and relationships are discussed, and a distribution map is provided.
2805524|A new spleenwort hybrid, Asplenium pinnatifidum X trichomanes, from southern Illinois is nicely intermediate in morphology between the parents, and shows no pairing of its genomes: two sets of chromosomes from A. X pinnatifidum and one from A. trichomanes. Taxonomically the cross is significant for its bearing on the interpretation of the taxon A. stotleri Wherry, previously believed to have originated from the same parents. New studies of A. stotleri based upon materials from the now extinct type colony in West Virginia, and from a newly discovered extant colony in Arkansas, show clearly that this taxon is not the same as A. pinnatifidum X trichomanes. Comparisons with A. X bradleyi D. C. Eaton (the tetraploid of A. montanum X platyneuron) indicate that the taxon A. stotleri is similar in all respects except for its more rounded segments. Asplenium stotleri is therefore reinterpreted as a synonym of A. X bradleyi, of which it is regarded as a slightly differentiated local form.
2807421|Chamaedorea macroloba Galeano and Prestoea simpliciflia Galeano, known only from Colombia, are described and illustrated.
2806142|Selection at constant selective pressures results in the optimization of the average productivity within the system and an increase in the information content. The entropy increase through evolutionary time is, therefore, minimized. The "pattern" of entropy descriptions for ontogenetic (developmental) and phylogenetic (evolutionary) changes is shown to be different, and the latter is consistent with the Prigogine-Glansdorff principle for irreversible thermodynamcic Processes.
4098961| A new species, Festuca samensis, belonging to the F. lilloi group (subgen. Festuca), is described from the Tarija region in southern Bolivia. The limits of the Festuca lilloi group are revised and F. setifolia, which is here lectotypified, is excluded from this group. Additionally, the first Bolivian record of the Tucuman floristic element Festuca parodiana of subgen. Subulatae is reported. /// Novelties in Festuca (Gramineae-Poeae) from southern Bolivia. Se describe Festuca samensis, una nueva especie del grupo F. lilloi (subgen. Festuca), de la regin de Tarija en el sur de Bolivia. Se revisa la delimitacin de este grupo del que queda excluda F. setifolia que aqu se tipifica. Adems, se cita por primera vez para Bolivia Festuca parodiana, un elemento florstico tucumnico del subgen. Subulatae. 
2806359|Geographic variation in the Dicanthelium aciculare complex was studied by principal components analysis. Few of the attributes analyzed show high correlations with one another, but pubescence patterns are of value in the discrimination of taxa. Sharp differences between phenetic clusters are restricted to one or two geographical regions. When viewed as a whole the complex forms a mosaic of variation patterns and the boundaries between phenetic clusters fade. The complex is reduced to two species, Dichanthelium aciculare (Desv. ex Poir.) Gould & Clark and D. consanguineum (Kunth) Gould & Clark.
2805491|Sagittaria graminea and allies as herein interpreted include a natural morphological complex of seven species and two varieties: S. graminea (including vars. chapmanii, weatherbiana, and graminea), S. platyphylla, S. rigida, S. teres, S. isoetiformis, S. cristata, and S. fasciculata. This group is characterized by nonsaguittate leaves, pubescent dilated filaments, and reflexed sepals; all taxa are monoecious. Taxonomic conclusions are based on field and herbarium studies and cross-compability experiments.
2806551|Two closely related new species of Eupatorium, E. tamaulipanum from southeastern Tamaulipas and E. xalapanum from central Veracruz, are described herein. The latter is diploid with 2n = 20. Their relationship appears to be with the genus Eupatoriastrum (subtribe Critoniinae, sensu Robinson and King), but an equally good case might be made for inclusion in the genera Chromolaena, Bartlettina, or Tamaulipa of subtribes Praxelinae, Hebecliniinae, and Gyptidinae respectively, as circumscribed by King and Robinson. While their splintered treatment of Eupatorium, and the Eupatorieae generally, often provides unequivocal "generic" placement of known or newly described species, many others appear to be rather arbitrarily placed, including some whose possible generic positions might include three or more of their subtribal groupings.
2807460|Chamaecrista arboae, a species of sect. Absus ser. Absoideae newly discovered on Chapada Diamantina in interior Bahia, Brazil, is described, figured, and discussed.
2805731|Couepia dolichopoda, a new bat-pollinated species from Amazonian Peru, is described and compared with C. longipendula, its nearest relative.
2806629|Heterosmilax, a small southeastern Asiatic genus in the Smilacaceae, comprises 11 species in two sections, including H. micrandra, which is described as new from Hainan, China. These taxa are taxonomically discussed, described, illustrated, and a key is provided to differentiate them.
3218426|Subtribe Oncospermatinae (Arecaceae: Arecoideae: Areceae) is a diverse group of spiny Old World palms. The subtribe includes Oncosperma, a widespread Asian genus of five species, along with seven monotypic genera, all endemic to the Seychelles and Mascarene Islands of the western Indian Ocean. A phylogenetic analysis was conducted in order to test the monophyly of subtribe Oncospermatinae with respect to other Old World genera of tribe Areceae.A matrix of 38 morphological characters was scored for 29 taxa, including 11 species of the Oncospermatinae.A single most parsimonious tree was found, resolving the subtribe as a polyphyletic group of two distinct clades. One clade containing Acanthophoenix, Deckenia, Oncosperma, and Tectiphiala was placed as sister to a large group that includes members of subtribes Archontophoenicinae, Arecinae, Iguanurinae, and Ptychospermatinae. The other clade of Oncospermatinae, including the Seychelles endemic genera Nephrosperma, Phoenicophorium, Roscheria, and Verschaffeltia, was resolved as sister to the Madagascar endemic subtribe Masoalinae, and may have arisen in the western Indian Ocean region.
2807813|A new species of Passiflora subgenus Tacsonia from the province of Zamora-Chinchipe, Ecuador, is described. The species is illustrated and its affinities to other species within the subgenus are discussed.
2806081|A species formerly thought to be in a monotypic genus, Petrogenia repens I. M. Johnston, is found to be congeneric with Bonamia. The new combination Bonamia repens (I. M. Johnston) Austin & Staples is made. This species, with two others, we interpret as being an endemic triad in the Chihuahuan Desert Region. Possible relationships, ecology, palynology, cotyledon structure, and morphology are discussed.
2807437| This treatment provides a key, brief synonymy, habitat descriptions, and distributions for the 81 species of Rhynchospora known from Mesoamerica. Included are descriptions and illustrations of three new species and one new subspecies (R. davidsei, R. rosae, and R. fascicularis subsp. sierrensis described by the author and R. talamancensis described jointly with J. Gmez-Laurito). In addition, the achenes of 17 species of Rhynchospora are illustrated as an aid in identification. 
3218399| Verbesina barrancae, a new species of Compositae (Heliantheae) from Jalisco, Mxico, is described and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to Verbesina crocata but differs in characteristics of inflorescence, anthers, and achenes as well as in form of pollen, size and number of spinules, size of colpus transversalis, and index of polar area. /// [Spanish]Se describe e ilustra Verbesina barrancae (Compositae, Heliantheae) como una especie nueva para Jalisco, Mxico. Morfologicamente, V. barrancae est relacionada con V. crocata pero difiere por caractersticas en la inflorescencia, las anteras, y los aquenios. Tambin hay caractersticas palinolgicas que las diferencian como: forma del polen, tamao y nmero de espnulas, tamao del colpo transversal e ndice del rea polar. 
2807380|Refinements in the taxonomy of the genus Calymperes (Musci: Calymperaceae) allow increasingly accurate estimates of the total number of species worldwide and new assessments of world ranges of the species. Instead of the 272 correct names of Calymperes listed in Volume 1 of Index Muscorum, the world total of "good" species now appears to be in the range of 30 to 40, and contrary to the high degree of narrow endemism implied from the compilation of Index Muscorum, many species of Calymperes have broad ranges in the paleo-or neotropics. A few species, including C. afzelii, C. erosum, C. palisotii, C. lonchophyllum, and C. tenerum, are pantropical. World ranges of species of Calymperes are mapped and implications for historical patterns of dispersal and speciation are discussed. Suites of endemic species and species groups in the neotropics differ from those in the paleotropics, demonstrating different ancestries, a long period of geographic separation, and independent evolution in two fundamentally different environments. It is suggested that Calymperes shares close phylogenetic relationship with limbate Syrrhopodon.
2807354|Additional data on the fruit and seeds of Senna crassiramea, the original description of the fruit of S. rigidicaulis, the morphology of its seeds, and a modified key for the identification of the species of ser. Aphyllae by means of the seeds, are presented.
30218802|Lessingianthus ibitipocensis, a new species from the Southeastern Brazilian highlands, is described and illustrated. /// Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva, Lessingianthus ibitipocensis, del sudeste de Brasil.
4098967| Se describe Forestiera ecuadorensis, una nueva especie de rbol, endmica del bosque seco tropical al occidente de Ecuador, en la provincia del Guayas, la misma que tambin es un nuevo registro genrico para el pas. Forestiera ecuadorensis es similar a Forestiera rhamnifolia distribuida en Mesoamrica y el Caribe, y a Forestiera eggersiana de las Islas Vrgenes, Hait y Puerto Rico, de las que difiere por tener por presentar hojas que alcanzan mayor dimensin, con distintivo pice largo-acuminado, mayor nmero de nervios laterales, estambres con filamentos ms cortos y distinto patrn fitogeogrfico. Tambin se presenta una clave para todas las especies de Oleaceae reportadas hasta la fecha para Ecuador. /// Forestiera ecuadorensis, a new tree species endemic to tropical dry forests of the province of Guayas, western Ecuador, is described; it is a new generic record for that country. It is closely related to the Mesoamerican-Caribbean Forestiera rhamnifolia and Forestiera eggersiana from the Virgin Islands, Haiti and Puerto Rico, but it differs from both of these by having longer leaf blades, with distinctive long-acuminate apices, more lateral secondary veins per side and stamens with shorter filaments. A key to all species presently known from Ecuador is also included. 
2807075|Begonia breedlovei, B. chiapensis, and B. jaliscana, new species in section Gireoudia from Mexico, are described, illustrated, and discussed.
3218466|A new species, Ficus salicaria, is described from material cultivated as ornamental. The material is of uncertain provenance but was probably collected originally in Guyana.
2806499|Six new species of Odontonema are described: Odontonema album, O. amicorum, O. breedlovei, O. laxum, O. mortonii and O. speciosum. In addition two new combinations are proposed for Odontonema, O. glaberrimum and O. nitidum var. album, and nine species are transferred form Odontonema to other acanthaceous genera, namely Anisacanthus ramosissimus, Buceragenia foliaceo-bracteate, Pseuderanthemum cuspidatum, P. hookerianum, P. interruptum, P. paniculatum, P. stenostachyum, Stenostephanus longistaminus and Streblacanthus dubiosus.
2806560|Presented here is a guide to the location, deposition, and authors of vascular plant type material either collected on the King exploration or described in the botany report of the exploration. A lectotype of Lupinus meionanthus var. heteranthus is herein designated by R. C. Barneby.
4497334| Three new species from Bolivia and Peru (Adiantum solomonii, A. tryonii, and A. tuomistoanum) are described and illustrated. /// Trs novas espcies da Bolvia e Peru (Adiantum solomonii, A. tryonii e A. tuomistoanum) so descritas e ilustradas. 
2806502|Thrasya oreophila, T. glaziovii, and T. auricoma are described, discussed, and illustrated.
3218395| Tagetes moorei var. breviligulata is proposed as new. It differs from the typical population in habit, number of flowers, and size of the ray flowers. It is known from eastern Quertaro state, Mxico. Descriptions, an illustration, a key, and a tabular comparison are provided. /// [Spanish]Tagetes moorel var. breviligulata es propuesta como nueva. Difiere de la variedad tpica en el habito, nmero de flores y el tamao de las flores radiales. Se conoce del este del estado mexicano de Quertaro. Se incluyen descripciones, una ilustracin, una clave y una tabla comparativa con especies afines. 
2806253|Penstemon pinorum, from the Pine Valley Mountains of southwestern Utah, is described and illustrated. It is compared morphologically and ecologically to other members of section Cristati.
2807136|A new species of Rubiaceae, Randia retroflexa, is described and illustrated from Veracruz, Oaxaca, and Chiapas in southern Mexico. An armed canopy vine of lowland and lower montane tropical evergreen forest, it is distinguished by its paired reflexed spines and hirsute pubescence. Its distribution, habitat, and specimen citations are given and affinities are discussed.
2807780|Muhlenbergia torreyi occurs in the southwestern United States, northern Mexico, and northwestern Argentina. Allozyme data were used to evaluate genetic diversity within and among populations of this amphitropical disjunct species. Electrophoretic examination of 22 putative enzyme loci in 15 populations revealed high levels of genetic variation (P ranging from 64.7 to 82.4; H from 0.527 to 0.757) and high levels of genetic diversity (F ranging from -0.584 to -0.939). All populations possess high levels of heterogeneity (F
2807756| A new species of Geranium endemic to a small (~10 ha) area of the high Cumbres Calchaques, Tucumn, Argentina, is described. The species is unique within the genus in its highly condensed, plateshaped growth form, its subterranean branching system, its thick, deep taproot, and its minute leaves with mostly 5-7 lobes. The environment is cold (~1.5 C mean annual temperature), but equable(low diurnal fluctuations). Soils are subject to intense moisture fluctuations and freeze-thaw cycles. The total population of the species is estimated at <10,000 individuals. 
2805917|Pectis minutiflora, P. papposa var. grandis, and P. purpurea var. sonorae are described as new. A new combination, P. purpurea var. lancifolia also is included. Chromosome counts (n = 12) are reported for P. papposa var. grandis and P. purpurea var. sonorae.
2805789|A bilobed strucutre develops from the distal end of the funiculus,primarily by cell enlargement, during the ontogeny of the seed of Eriosema glaziovii Harms. This appendage is present in all species of Eriosema and was found to contain conspicuous oil droplets in the thirteen species examined in this study. The appendage is referred to as a strophiole or a rim-aril although seeds of the genus have been previously described as estrophiolate by other authors.
41406790|Stylogyne araujoana, a new endemic species from the Atlantic Forest Region of Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil is described, illustrated, and mapped. Its relationships with Stylogyne pauciflora and Stylogyne sordida are discussed, and comments concerning the taxonomy, ecology, and conservation status are provided. Micromorphological leaf characters are illustrated and discussed. Stylogyne araujoana, urna nova espcie endmica da Floresta Atlntica do estado do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil,  descrita, ilustrada e mapeada. Sua relao com Stylogyne pauciflora e Stylogyne sordida  discutida, e so apresentados comentrios acerca de sua taxonomia, ecologia e status de conservao. Caracteres micromorfolgicos da folha so ilustrados e discutidos.
2807413|Ceratozamia euryphyllidia from Veracruz is described and illustrated. This species differs from all others in the genus in its very large, broad leaflets (9-16 cm wide) which have undulate margins, prominent veins, and a membranous to translucent texture at maturity. It is apparently related to a group of species which all have relatively small strobili and leaflets that are attenuate basally, oblanceolate to obovate, inequilateral, abruptly acuminate apically, and generally papyraceous to membranaceous. The allopatric species of this group inhabit moist to very wet areas. The wetter the habitat, the larger and thinner the leaflets. Thus, for example, C. latifolia which has the smallest leaflets grows in the driest habitat whereas C. euryphyllidia which grows in the wettest habitat has the largest leaflets in the genus.
2666529|Aristolochia dinghoui is described from southwestern Thailand. It is morphologically similar to A. harmandiana Pierre ex Lecomte, from Cambodia and Laos, and also bears some resemblance to A. philippinensis Warb. and A. sericea Blanco, both from the Philippines. A key to these four species is included, and some of their diagnostic features are listed.
40980931|A new species in Croton section Argyroglossum from northeastern Brazil is described and illustrated.Croton limae was previously confused with C. tricolor and C. argyrophyllus, which are the most closely related species. Its geographic distribution is discussed and a key to distinguish these three related species is presented. Uma nova espcie em Croton sect. Argyroglossum Baill. do Nordeste do Brasil  descrita e ilustrada. Croton limae era anteriormente confundida com C. tricolor ou com C. argyrophyllus, ambas mais prximamente relacionadas  nova especie. Comentrios sobre sua distribuio geogrfica e uma chave para as trs espcies relacionadas so apresentadas.
2807314| Raveniopsis aracansis is described from Serra Arac, Brazil and is the first record of the genus from Brazil. 
2806187|Haplopappus linearifolius has been referred by various authors to the monotypic genus Stenotopsis, to the genus Stenotus, and with H. parrasanus to Haplopappus sect. Stenotopsis. A re-evaluation of the taxonomic affinities of H. linearifolius based on morphological, chemical, and phenological evidence supports the hypothesis that it and Ericameria cooperi are closely related and that these two species stand apart from others in Ericameria. Accordingly, a section within Ericameria is established to accommodate them, and two new combinations are made, Ericameria sect. Stenotopsis and E. linearifolia. Also, a new subspecies, E. cooperi subsp. bajacalifornia is proposed.
2807349|A new species, Collomia renacta, is described and illustrated. It is placed in the C. linearis group, near C. macrocalyx. It also shares certain vegetative characteristics with C. tinctoria. Collomia renacta has been found in south-facing lithosolic communities at middle elevations in southeastern Oregon and northeastern Nevada.
2806352|This report consist of nomenclatural alterations and additions incident to taxonomic studies on United States Leguminosae. There are four new varieties and twenty new combinations.
30218798|Galactia dimorphophylla, a new species from northeastern Argentina and northern Uruguay, is described and illustrated. This new species is assigned to sect. Odonia. A table distinguishing it from similar species in Southern South America is presented, and its relationships and distinguishing characters including karyological features are discussed.
2805470|Morphological and ecological studies of seven populations of Pyxidanthera barbulata Michx. in North and South Carolina indicate that the variation among populations is clinal and associated with differences in soil moisture retaining capacity and other environmental parameters. Breeding experiments show that the morphologically extreme populations are interfertile. Pyxidanthera brevifolia Wells (= P. barbulata var. brevifolia (Wells) Ahles) is therefore rejected as a later taxonomic synonym. An evolutionary history of the genus is proposed.
2806723|A new species of Madia section Anisocarpus from the serpentines of northwest California is described, illustrated and contrasted with its closest relatives. A key to the annual members of the section is presented.
2805842|Numerical phenetics, based on indiscriminate choice of characters and equal weighting, does not directly reflect cladistic or lineage relationships in some taxa of Haplopappus. However, the degree to which the lineage and phenetic relationships diverge may be used as an assay of the amount of parallel evolution that has occurred. Several numerical taxonomic methods were employed. For each method a change in the number of characters from 31 to 29, by deletion of two karyotypic characters, yielded a significant change in the results. Uses of numerical techniques for the study of character clines and adaptive character complexes are discussed.
2806566|Odontocarya monandra Barneby, resembling O. deminuta in glabrous staminate panicle, 3-merous corolla and solitary stamen, but notably different in shape and venation of leaves and larger staminate flowers, is described from Prov. Maynas, northeasthern Peru; and O. septemfida Barneby, the only known member of the genus with lobed leaves, from Edo. Falcn, Venezuela.
2807410|Solanum guzmanguense is a new species of the wild potato alliance endemic in northern Peru. Its nearest relationships are with a small cluster of species restricted to southern Bolivia and northern Argentina.
3218352|Eriogonum soliceps, a new species of subg. Eucycla sect. Capitata, is described. It may be readily distinguished from all other taxa of the subgenus by its reduced inflorescence. From its presumed nearest relative, E. mancum, this new species differs in its solitary (vs. 2-5) involucre, presence of a peduncle but no scape, lack of bracts at the base of the involucre, and distinctly pustulose midribs of the mature flowers.
2805783|Berlandiera is revised to include B. subacaulis, B. pumila, B. texana, and B. lyrata with its varieties lyrata and macrophylla. All species may be induced to interbreed readily, producing $F_1$ progeny which are vigorous but with reduced fertility. Sympatric species produce natural hybrids which are proposed here as B.X humilis (=B. pumila X B. subacaulis) and B. X betonicifolia (=B. pumila X B. texana). All taxa investigated had n=15 chromosomes, including new counts for B. subacaulis and all six $F_1$ hybrids.
2806844|A xeromorphic member of the mesophytic genus Sciadotenia (S. campestris Barneby) is described from transfranciscan Bahia, Brazil.
2807385|Carterella is described as a new genus based on Bouvardia alexanderae, endemic to Baja California Sur, Mexico. Closets relationships are to the Houstonia mucronata group, but qualitative differences in seed characters and striking quantitative differences in floral characters provide evidence for recognition of a new monotypic genus.
2807388|Lithophytum, assigned by different workers to Solanaceae, Verbenaceae, and Hydrophyllaceae, is shown to be congeneric with Plocosperma Benth., variously referred to Loganiaceae, Apocynaceae, and Plocospermaceae.
2807234|Bletia greenwoodiana, a species found in oak-pine forests in Durango and Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by its purplish flowers, with the dorsal sepal and petals narrowly elliptic and acuminate at the apex. Its trilobed lip has wide lateral lobes, forming short sinuses, with rounded apices. The midlobe is very short, one third of the total lenght of the lip, with an emarginate apex dividing it into two small lobes.
3218467|Sequences of the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer regions 1 & 2 (nrDNA ITS) including the intervening 5.8S region were analyzed cladistically for 43 individuals of 35 species of Scaphyglottis s.l. plus two outgroup taxa. Low levels of sequence divergence do not allow estimation of relationships among most clades, but the analyses indicate that four segregate genera (Hexisea Lindl., Reichenbachanthus Barb. Rodr., Hexadesmia Brogn., and Platyglottis coriacea L.O. Williams) are embedded within a broad paraphyletic Scaphyglottis. This broadly defined Scaphyglottis sensu Dressler is characterized within Laeliinae by the usual presence of superposed growth habit and the presence of a column foot. In order to accommodate species formerly placed in Platyglottis and Reichenbachanthus, three new combinations are made in Scaphyglottis: Scaphyglottis brasiliensis (Schltr.) Dressler, S. coriacea (L. O. Williams) Dressler, and S. emarginata (Garay) Dressler.
2666557|The genus Cycas is revised for Thailand. Ten species are enumerated, five of them described as new (C. chamaoensis, C. clivicola, C. litoralis, C. nongnoochiae, C. tansachana), with one new subspecies (C. clivicola subsp. lutea). The species are placed within an infrageneric classification previously outlined. Distributions of the taxa are mapped, eight of the species are illustrated, and a key to species is provided. Previous records of C. circinalis and C. rumphii from Thailand (here not regarded as indigenous in Thailand) are discussed.
3218510|Five new species of Gesneriaceae are described from the Guianas: Nautilocalyx coccineus, Paradrymonia anisophylla, and Paradrymonia barbata in the tribe Episcieae, from Guyana; Napeanthus angustifolius from French Guiana and Napeanthus rupicola from Guyana in the tribe Napeantheae.
2806296|Two new Colombian species of Habracanthus, H. malacus from the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta and H. latifolius from the Sierra de Perija, are described, illustrated, and compared with H. antipharmacus, their closest relative.
41406783|As a result of ongoing studies of the Rubiaceae of Gabon, the new species Colletoecema gabonensis is here described and illustrated. It is endemic to Gabon, where it is the only species of the genus, and is so far only known from three collections from the Ogoou-Lolo and Ngouni provinces. The new species is morphologically intermediate between its two congeners, C. dewevrei (from Cameroon, Central African Republic, Republic of the Congo, DR Congo, and Angola) and C. magna (endemic to Cameroon). The new species agrees with C. dewevrei in having flowers with exserted anthers and style, but differs in its sessile flowers and fruits. In the latter characters, it resembles C. magna, from which it can be separated by its smaller fruits and leaves, and by its different floral morphology. An IUCN conservation assessment has been made and the species is provisionally assessed as Vulnerable, based on its restricted area of occupancy and the small number of known locations.
2807631|A new species, Dioscorea koyamae (sect. Enantiophyllum), is described, illustrated, and compared with allied species.
2805269|Variation patterns of Impatiens species in the Pacific Northwest are discussed. Much of the variability there is attributed to widespread interspecific hybridization. Taxonomy of the genus is briefly reviewed, and it is suggested that four species should be recognized for the region. An account of natural hybridization between I. capensis and I. ecalcarata is given in detail, and it is postulated that the effects of this hybridization may extend beyond the immediate area in which it is detectable on the basis of morphological patterns. It is suggested that I. aurella may be of hybrid origin since it combines characters of two species in the Pacific Northwest. Although natural hybridization is occurring at the present time, geographical distribution of variant populations of the species suggests that extensive hybridization may have been initiated in late Pleistocene as a result of the ecological disturbances prevalent at that time.
2806302|Bryosedgwickia is considered a synonym of Platygyriella and the following transfers are proposed: P. aurea, P. aureoides, P. densa, P. fragilifolia, P. kirtikarii and P. pringlei. A key is provided to the accepted species of Platygyriella. Excluded species are treated as Hondaella entodontea (C. Mull.) Buck and Isopterygium jamaicense (Bartr.) Buck.
2805909|Populations of Clarkia cylindrica and C. bottae were studied in the field and in the garden. Seed from which the garden progenies were grown was collected in the wild. Experimental crosses were made between and within taxa. Fertility and chromosome pairing were observed in the hybrids. A maternal influence on seed set was found in crosses between C. cylindrica and C. bottae. Two taxa are described as new: Clarkia rostrata and C. cylindrica ssp. clavicarpa.
2807605|Three new species of Selaginella from Panama are described and illustrated: S. correae, S. salazariae, and S. taylorii. In addition, a new name, S. smithiorum, is proposed for S. velutina A. R. Smith (non. S. velutina Cesati), and eleven new distribution records are reported. The relationships of the species are discussed and keys to some of the species are provided.
2806646|Mimosa unipinnata from the Sierra de San Marcos in the Cuatro Cinegas Basin of central Coahuila, Mexico, is described. It is unique among mimosas in having oncepinnate leaves.
2666506|The flowering phenology of 27 taxa of palms in a lowland moist forest in the central Amazon was recorded over a 40 month period. Phenological data were transformed into measures of synchrony, regularity, and duration. Flowering was observed at all times of year and there was no correlation with rainfall either for the current month or for any monthly lag interval. The 27 taxa were divided into three pollination groups-weevil, bee/fly, or beetle-based on their behavior at anthesis. Phenology was significantly correlated with pollination groups. Weevil-pollinated palms had higher synchrony and shorter duration of flowering than other groups. Bee/fly-pollinated palms had lower synchrony and longer duration of flowering. The beetle-pollinated palms were intermediate between the two other groups. Seasonal regularity of flowering was similar in all three groups. We suggest that, at least in Bactris, taxa exhibit staggered flowering.
2805696|The five binomials published by Linnaeus in Gossypium L. are reviewed, their typification and application dealt with, and some earlier misconceptions concerning them clarified. Holotypes are known for G. herbaceum, G. arboreum, G. hirsutum, and G. religiosum. A lectotype of G. barbadense is herein designated. G. religiosum is considered synonymous with G. hirsutum. The history of the cultivated G. hirsutum is discussed in support of the present treatment.
2807457|A bibliography of the numerous, scattered orchid publications of the late H. G. Jones of Bridgetown, Barbados is presented. The new taxa and combinations proposed by Jones are listed. A search for his personal herbarium, which is believed to be non-existent, is discussed.
2807871|Although all past floras of northern North America have recognized only one species of diminutive water-lily, actually two distinct species occur in the region. The circumboreal Nymphaea tetragona Georgi is largely confined to the northwestern part of the continent, extending as far east as Manitoba and occurring in the contiguous United States only in northwest Washington. A second species, N. leibergii Morong, is restricted to, but widely distributed in, northern North America, though it is absent from the extreme northwest. The two species are distinguishable from each other by several floral and foliar characters and the two species form a section, Nymphaea subg. Nymphaea sect. Chamaenymphaea, stat: nov. This is distinguished from the two other sections of subg. Nymphaea in a key, and Nymphaea subg. Nymphaea sect. Xanthantha, stat. nov., is proposed. Sect. Chamaenymphaea is described for North America, synonymy and nomenclature for both species are discussed, and a key including N. odorata Aiton is presented. A lectotype is provided for N. leibergii and the typification of N. tetragona is examined.
2805776|Liatris aspera and L. sicata are remotely related species, and rarely have an opportunity to hybridize because of different flowering periods and ecological tolerances. Seasonal and ecological barriers have been surmounted in a population in southern Cook County, Illinois, which has resulted in extensive hybridization. The population was characterized on the basis of morphological and chemical features, pollen fertility, and chromosome pairing relationships. Plants considered to be $F_1$ hybrids on the basis of morphology typically displayed the phenolic markers of both parental species, reduced fertility and meiotic irregularities in the form of univalents and translocation figures. Plants judged to be backcrosses to L. aspera contained some ot the phenolics of L. spicata; however, backcrosses to L. spicata invariably lacked the phenolics of L. aspera. The species-species phenolics of L. aspera were inherited as a block, i.e., a hybrid had all or none of these compounds. The complex pattern of gene exchange within the population reflects the weakness of crossing and fertility barriers to hybridization.
2805758|The type species of Unxia, U. camphorata, long considered as a species of Melampodium, and Polymnia suffruticosa are regarded as congeneric, and Unxia L. f., which is closely related to Polymnia in the Melampodiinae, is re-established. A discussion of generic relationships is followed by a taxonomic treatment of Unxia.
2666581|Few studies of genetic variation have been conducted on plants of the Pacific coastal desert and neighboring Andes of Peru, although the region has many endemic taxa. Enzyme electrophoresis was employed to examine allozyme diversities of four species of the family Malesherbiaceae, an endemic to the arid Andes and coastal desert. One population of Malesherbia splendens and two of M. tubulosa, both endemics of the department of Lima, one population of M. weberbaueri var. weberbaueri, an endemic of the Andean department Huancavelica, and the two Lima populations of M. scarlatiflora were studied. Fifteen loci were examined for all populations and an additional seven loci were resolved for M. weberbaueri and M. splendens. Malesherbia splendens, which is known from three populations, has a low mean number of alleles per locus (A), proportion of polymorphic loci (P), and expected heterozygosity (H
2807493|Cladistic analyses of selected taxa of Ericaceae (and potential relatives) suggest that the family, as traditionally circumscribed, is paraphyletic. The traditionally recognized groups, Monotropaceae, Pyrolaceae, Epacridaceae, and Empetraceae, are nested within the cladistic structure of Ericaceae, and it seems reasonable to expand the circumscription of the latter. Preliminary analyses suggest that Actinidia (Actinidiaceae) likely is cladistically basal within Ericales, with Cyrilla (Cyrillaceae) and Clethra (Clethraceae) positioned, respectively, as second and first outgroups to Ericaceae. Generic relationships within Ericaceae are highly unresolved due to extensive homoplasy, but Enkianthus appears to be the sister group of the remaining ericad genera. The current division of the family into five the subfamilies, i.e., Rhododendroideae, Ericoideae, Vaccinioideae, Pyroloideae, and Monotropoideae, very likely is not in accordance with phylogenetic relationships.
2807754|Rosenbergiodendron has usually been relegated to the synonymy of Randia, but differs from Randia by being unarmed and having hermaphrodite flowers and pollen in monads. Three species are recognized. One new combination, R. formosum var. nitidum, is made. Rosenbergiodendron formosum is neotypified. Rosenbergiodendron formosum var. nitidum, R. longiflorum, R. densiflorum, and Randia speciosa are lectotypified. A key to the species, descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps are provided.
2806660|Morphological evidence resulting from a taxonomic revision of the genus Psychotria in the Hawaiian Islands supports previous work which recognized sections Pelagomapouria and Straussia. The differences between these sections in inflorescence architecture, flower size, anther attachment, and pyrene anatomy, strongly support the contention that at least two introductions to the Hawaiian Archipelago were responsible for the origin of these sections. Whereas the taxa in section Pelagomapouria are quite distinct from one another morphologically, those in section. Straussia demonstrate almost continuous morphological intergradation. Straussia taxa also tend to become less distinct when followed from the older to the younger islands of the archipelago. Morphological variation within several complex species is illustrated. The morphological evidence supports the hypothesis that Straussia has had a shorter tenure in the Hawaiian Islands than has Pelagomapouria and is in a relatively early evolutionary stage of adaptive radiation and speciation.
2805750|Five taxa of Solanum sect. Basarthrum were studied in an effort to clarify their taxonomic position and to determine the effective evolutionary mechanism. Methods included an analysis of chromosome number and behavior, artificial hybridizations and a study of herbarium material. The data suggest that S. canense and S. suaveolens are closely related and that S. suaveolens may have been the progenitor of S. canense. The only successful interpecific cross involving one of these two species was vigorous but highly sterile. Evidence from both morphology and crossing studies indicates a close relationship between S. basendopogon and S. caripense. Hybrids between these two species with relatively high fertility through the $F_3$ generation were secured. The status of S. basendopogon f. obtusum remains a problem since there is but one collection of the typical form. The placement of S. sanctae-marthae in sect. Basarthrum is considered problematic. Virtually none of 170 interspecific crosses with this species were successful. Seed size and the presence and size of a seed wing are proposed as useful morphological characters in sect. Basarthrum. There is apparently a correlation between short styles and self-compatibility. All species are diploid (n=12) and no chromosomal or meiotic aberrations were noted in the species or hybrids. Most of the more than 1,000 interspecific crosses failed. Most of the hybrid fruits bore no seeds or seeds which did not germinate. The primary barriers separating species are considered to be strong prefertilization isolating mechanisms and ecogeographic factors.
2807736|A cladistic analysis of the saprophytic genus Voyria Aubl. (Gentianaceae) was performed to evaluate infrageneric classification, character evolution, and biogeography. A matrix of 19 species of Voyria and 39 morphological characters yielded three most-parsiomonious trees, one of which was identical to their strict consensus. The major division within Voyria based on character support is also the rooting point suggested by a larger cladistic analysis of gentians. We have chosen to treat these distinct clades as two new subgenera, Voyria subgen. Voyria Aubl. and Voyria subgen. Leiphaimos (Schltdl. & Cham.) V. A. Albert & L. Struwe, stat. nov. Concerning character evolution, Voyria subgen. Voyria (5 spp.) is the most similar to other Gentianaceae. The saprophytic condition is more advanced in Voyria subgen. Leiphaimos (14 spp.), in which stomates and a continuous vascular cylinder are lacking. Within subgen. Leiphaimos, trends toward extreme vascular rediction and wind-mediated seed dispersal are evident. The extensive character evolution observed within Voyria as a whole may correlate with relaxation of autotrophic structural constraints. Optimization of an area of distribution character on the cladograms obtained suggests that Guayana (and therefore northern South America) may represent the most ancestral area for extant Voyria.
2805748|A new species of Pinguicula from Mexico, P. sharpii, is described. It belongs in Subgenus Isoloba, Section Isoloba, as defined in Casper's monograph of the genus Pinguicula (1966a). The somatic chromosome number of Pinguicula sharpii is 2n=16, which is diploid. The basic chromosome number x=8 is found in many members of Subgenus Isoloba of Pinguicula, while that of x=11 is also found in some member of the subgenus.
40980935|In preparation of a treatment of Swartzia (Leguminosae) for the Flora Mesoamericana, recent updates to the taxonomy of the genus in Central America are discussed, and two new species from the Pacific slope and lowlands of central and southern Costa Rica are described and illustrated. One of them, S. picramnioides, is a member of the section Possira and is closely related to S. standleyi of Guatemala and Belize and to the South American species S. myrtifolia. The other, S.zeledonensis, belongs to the Central American apetalous clade of section Terminales. It is probably most closely related to the Panamanian species, S. nuda. We conclude that Swartzia is represented in Mexico and Central America by 14 species and provide a key for their identification. Como parte de la preparacin del tratamiento del gnero Swartzia (Leguminosae) para la Flora Mesoamericana, taxonoma actualizada del mismo para Centroamrica es discutida y dos nuevas especies de los vertientes pacficos y tierras bajas del centro y sur de Costa Rica son descritas e ilustradas. Una de ellas, S. pricramnioides, es un miembro de la seccin Possira y est cercanamente relacionada con S. standleyi de Guatemala y Belice y con la especie Suramericana S. myrtifolia. La otra, S. zeledonensis, pertenece al ciado aptalo centroamericano de la seccin Terminales. Es probablemente, ms cercanamente relacionada a la especie panamea S. nuda. Concluimos que Swartzia esta representado en Mxico y Centroamrica por 14 especies y proveemos una clave para su identificacin.
2806484|A sequential listing of the Flora North America Reports (FNA Reports) is presented, including all 83 Reports distributed or actively in preparation as of June 1977. An introduction, topical subject guide, and author index are also included.
2666552|Among the predominantly purple- and redflowered species of the genus Cuphea, only seven yellow floral tube and/or yellow-petaled members in three sections were known. We add here two new species and one new variety. Cuphea congesta from Venezuela and C. splendida var. viridiflava from Bolivia are new to sect. Melvilla. Cuphea xanthopetala from Brazil is described in sect. Euandra and expands the presence of this feature to a fourth section of the genus. A key is provided to all Cuphea with yellow floral tubes and/or yellow petals to expedite determinations when these exceptional character states are present.
2806102|Acacia kallunkiae Grimes & Barneby, unique among South American members of the genus in leaf-formula, is described and figured.
2807198|Combinations are made for Keckiella antirrhinoides var. microphylla, K. rothrockii var. jacintensis, K. ternata var. septentrionalis, Penstemon fruticiformis var. amargosae, P.grinnellii var. scrophularioides, P. heterodoxus var. cephalophorus, P. heterodoxus var. shastensis, and P. newberryi var. berryi.
2805928|The following species are described as new: Herissantia dressleri, Hibiscus longifilus, and Pavonia gentryi from Mexico, and Hibiscus wilsonii from Brazil. The comparative morphology and distribution of the Mexican Pavonia melanommata Robins. & Seat. var. melanommata and of P. melanommata var. pringleana R. E. Fries are discussed.
2805480|The tetraploid and hexaploid cytotypes of Achillea millefolium in western North America exhibit a complex distributional pattern involving overlapping ranges, mixed populations, and occasional pentaploid, septaploid, and octoploid plants. Cytogenetic and distributional evidence support the hypothesis that there has been a repeated autoploid origin of hexaploids from tetraploid progenitors. It is suggested that chromosome number differences should not be relied on as markers for infraspecific taxa in this complex.
2807775|The identity of Blandibractea (based solely on flowering material) has never been questioned, and it has always been referred to as a monotypic genus included in the tribe Rondeletieae. Morphological comparisons have revealed that B. brasiliensis is synonymous with Simira glaziovii (K. Schum.) Steyerm. In addition, what Wernham called the "Schau-Apparat" made of "modified bracts. the calyx-lobes being approximately equal" (an erroneous observation repeated by recent authors), is there shown to consist of calycophylls inserted on aborted flowers. A complete description and illustrations of this species are provided.
2807013| A report on the family Scrophulariaceae in the pramos of the Venezuelan Andes is made, which includes 13 genera. A key to the genera is provided. 
2805526|A new genus is proposed for plants heretofore included in Nemastylis latifolia Weatherby. Sessilanthera is related to Tigridia, Rigidella, and Fosteria in tribe Tigrideae.
2806921|Quinolizidine alkaloids were surveyed using gas chromatography (GC) and combined mass spectroscopy (MS) in bark or leaves of eleven species of Ormosia Jackson as well as in Clathrotropis macrocarpa Duke from tropical forests in Latin America. A list of detected alkaloids, with their MS fragmentation patterns and GC retention indicates, is given, as are the distribution of alkaloids among the samples and their detected concentrations. Alkaloid diversity in Ormosia was high, and the taxonomic distribution of specific alkaloids was not congruent with morphological taxonomic criteria: Of 143 alkaloids apparent in 14 sample, 65 were observed in only one sample, and no single alkaloid was common to all samples. Within a species alkaloid concentrations were inconsistent and therefore cannot be used as a taxonomic character. This was shown for leaf alkaloid concentrations of two neighboring conspecific trees in the same habitat.
2806715|Evidence from about 300 herbarium sheets shows that Pippanthus comprises two species, P. nepalensis and P. tomentosus, the former widespread and variable throughout most of the Himalayan range, the latter mostly confined to its easternmost portion. Piptanthus monogolicus and P. nanus belong to the related genus Ammopiptanthus. A key, descriptions, complete synonymy and a distribution map are presented.
2806465|The undifferentiated mature embryos of some Utricularia studied consist of large polygonal cells which contain many starch grains. Later, they consist mostly of large polygonal cells with some small cells in one or more regions adjacent to the seed coat, which lack starch grains but have rather easily visible nuclei. After these small cells divide and produce more cells of the same type toward the midcenter of the embryo, they form one or more primordia which grow into the primary structures of the seeding. The primordia of the embryo seem to have no pattern as to which primary vegetative structure they will develop into. However, the terrestrial species of Utricularia studied showed some non-cotyledonous, primary differences in germination patterns; some form primary foliar units, some form stolons, and some form bladders. The first and second orimary foliar units of aquatic Utricularia radiata and U. gibba subsp. gibba do not follow in the same manner as cotyledons. No cotyledon could be distinguished in any of the Utricularia seedlings studied. In the seedlings of U. gibba subsp. gibba and U. radiata, appearance and differentiation of the vascular elements occur simultaneously in more than one direction, toward the meristematic tissues of primary vegetative structures and toward the midcenter of the embryos. Lloyd's proposed term: "cotyledonoids" (1942) and that of Kumazawa: "cotyledons" (1967) should not be used for the first and second primary foliar units in either aquatic or terrestrial to terrestrial-epiphytic Utricularia, unless further supportive evidence is accumulated.
30219391|A new species of Crossoglossa (Orchidaceae: Epidendroideae: Malaxideae), Crossoglossa acuminatissima, from Santander del Sur Department in Colombia, is described and illustrated, and its affinities are discussed. Malaxis tipuloides var. exigua is raised to the rank of species as Crossoglossa exigua, and its report from Venezuela constitutes the first record of the genus Crossoglossa in that country. /// Se describe Crossoglossa acuminatissima de Santander del Sur en Colombia y se provee una ilustracin y una discusin de sus afinidades. Malaxis tipuloides var. exigua se eleva al rango de especie como Crossoglossa exigua, y su reporte para Venezuela constituye el primer registro del gnero en ese pas.
2806705|A new species of morning glory, Ipomoea expansa, is described from Guerrero and Oaxaca, Mexico. Morphologically it is very similar to I. purga (Wender.) Hayne and other species of the subsection Emeticae House, but it is easily distinguished by its lavender-blue corolla and dimorphic leaf morphology. The systematic implications of its discovery for the circumscription of the subsection to which it belongs is discussed.
41406780|Se describe e ilustra Pseudomiltemia davidsonii, una especie nueva endmica de la Sierra Madre de Chiapas, Mxico. Se trata de un arbusto o rbol pequeo que se caracteriza por las inflorescencias en monocasios o flores simples, de flores grandes y amarillas. Pseudomiltemia davidsonii se diferencia de P. filisepala, la nica otra especie en este gnero, por las hojas opuestas con pecolos ms largos; inflorescencias con pednculos ms cortos de 513 mm de largo, brcteas pequeas, pedicelos ms largos de 6-15 mm, y frutos ms angostos de 3.54.5 mm de dimetro. Pseudomiltemia davidsonii is described and illustrated as a new endemic species from the Sierra Madre of Chiapas, Mexico. It is a shrub or small tree characterized by having flowers axillary and solitary or in monochasia and with large yellow corollas. Pseudomiltemia davidsonii differs from P. filisepala, the only other species in this genus, by its opposite leaves with longer petioles, inflorescences with shorter peduncles 513 mm long, smaller bracts, longer pedicels 65 mm long, and narrower fruits 3.54.5 mm in diameter.
2806073|Thirteen taxa of the fern genus Elaphoglossum reproduce vegetatively by a bud borne at the retuse apex of the sterile frond. These and six of their nonproliferous close relatives, all of tropical America, are discussed and described. All but one belong to various species groups in the closely allied sections Setosa and Undulata, the remaining one belongin to section Lepidoglossa. Fourteen of the taxa are new: E. boryanum var. eutecnum, E. cardioglossum, E. entecnum, E. Exsertipes, E. herpestes, E. inciens, E. nanoglossum, E. omissum, E. phoras, E. phyllitidis, E. plumosum f. maternum, E. pseudoboryanum, E. rufum, and E. wardiae.
2805887|This paper comprises a comprehensive taxonomic revision of Tetradymia DC., including clarification of circumscriptions, nomenclature, and distributions of constituent taxa. Discussion includes consideration of anatomy, chromosome number and behavior, phenology and reproductive biology, and phylogeny. Nomenclatural changes result in two new combinations: Tetradymia tetrameres and Tetradymia axillaris var. longispina.
2806786|Chapmannia Torrey & Gray, a monotypic legume genus of Florida, is shown to have perfect flowers, rather than sterile and fertile flowers incorrectly attributed to the genus by authros for the past one hundred years. The species is described and illustrated with accompanying notes on its habitat, distribution, reproductive bioloty, phylogeny and cytology.
2807083|A revisionary treatment of the insular Caribbean Verbesina section Verbesina (formerly section Hamulium) is provided. Four taxa (three species and one variety) are recognized.
2806974|A re-evaluation of the characters used to separate Crepidospermum and Hemicrepidospermum indicates that the latter is best reduced to a section of Crepidospermum, resulting in the new combination C. cuneifolium (Cuatrec.) Daly. A revised description of the genus is presented, and a key to the members of Crepidospermum is given, including a new species, C. prancei.
2806911|Epicuticular leaf waxes in the 12 taxa classified in Sedum sect. Gormania show variation in size, shape, and frequency. All of the taxa exhibit wax platelets, but the platelets in the three putative relicts (S. albomarginatum, S. moranii, S. oblanceolatum) are larger than those in related taxa, and those in S. paradisum are poorly developed. Interspecific hybrids tend to show wax patterns intermediate between those of their respective parents. Hypothetical hybrid origins for the four polyploid taxa in the section have been supported previously by morphological and reproductive data and are further clarified by leaf wax data.
2807814|Eight new species of Cissus from Bahia, Brazil, and the Amazon basin are described and illustrated: C. bahiensis, C. decidua, C. paucinervia, C. compressiflora, C. glaucotricha, C. peruviana, C. pseudofuliginea, and C. ursina. In addition to the descriptions and illustrations, comments on their likely relationships and distributions are presented.
2806617|Two new species of Calea from Brazilian savannas are described, illustrated, and compared to their nearest relatives.
2805741|To assess the taxonomic relationships between the Psilotaceae and the Filicales (=Polypodiales), certain factors including character divergence, gaps in the record, categorical consistency, conservatism of characters, and use of factual vs. hypothetical data have been given consideration. Although it has been proposed that the aerial shoots of Psilotaceae are homologous to fronds, and the appendages to pinnae, and that the Psilotaceae should be classified as Filicales, Psilotum and Tmesipteris show a number of profound differences from Filicales. These involve the structure of the aerial organs, vascular patterns, fertile appendages, and sporangia. In view of the taxonomic criteria used, and the nature of the character differences, it is concluded that the Psilotaceae do not warrant inclusion in Filicales. Instead Psilotum and Tmesipteris constitute a separate line of evolution, and should be treated as a class, the Psilopsida, of Tracheiophyta, equivalent to Equisetopsida, Lycopodiopsida, and Polypodiopsida.
2805702|The known fossil record of the Lythraceae has been amplified by recent studies in northern Latin America. A total of 18 genera is recognized in geologic strata ranging in age from lower Eocene to Recent, and among the 22 or 23 modern genera, seven have a documented geologic history. The oldest remains are from an Indo-Malayan Old World warm-temperate to subtropical vegetation preserved in the lower Eocene London Clay flora. The most ancient of extant genera is Lagerstroemia and the most recetn (among those with an adequate fossil record) is Cuphea (middle Miocene to Recent). These represented respectively, primitive and advanced members of the family, and the paleobotanical record supports current concepts concerning phylogenetic relationships among genera of the Lythraceae. The family apparently had an Old Worl origin and became differentiated into a distinct modern taxon during Paleocene and early Eocene time.
2807558|Erigeron salmonensis, a diploid (n=9) species known only from one location in the Salmon River canyon of Idaho, is described and illustrated. The species appears to be most closely related to E. arenarioides, an endemic of northern Utah. Erigeron salmonensis differs in its long, naked, eglandular peduncles; longer leaves; smaller heads with fewer phyllaries; and longer, fewer ray florets. Federal Endangered or Threatened status may be warranted if additional populations are not discovered.
2806862|An Annotated checklist of species of Euphorbiaceae of the Guianas (Guyana, Surinam, French Guiana) and the adjacent region is presented an a key to the genera is provided. A total of 47 indigenous genera and 153 species are known from the Guianas, where species endemism is 14%, with the greatest number of endemics occurring in Gyuana and the fewest in French Guiana, An additional 86 species and an additional seven genera are known from neighboring areas of the Guayana Region; many of these may be expected to occur in the Guianas. Taxa known only in cultivation in the Guianas include 22 species and an additional six genera. The following new combination is proposed, Croton vergarenae.
41406770|Se describe e ilustra a Croton guerreroanus, una especie nueva de Guerrero, Mxico. Durante la revisin de la familia Euphorbiaceac para el estado de Guerrero, se colectaron ejemplares que no corresponden a ninguna especie conocida y se propone como una especie nueva. Esta nueva entidad se distingue de las especies relacionadas porque es un arbusto de hasta 1.5 m de altura, con tricomas estrellado-estipitados. La lmina de la hoja es membranacea y el margen es entero, las estpulas son foliceas, de 310 mm de largo, reniformes en la base y lineares en el pice. Ademas la flor pistilada presenta pedicelo de 23 mm de largo, los spalos son ovado-oblongos, con un nervio prominente en la cara abaxial y los estilos son bifurcados tres veces. Croton guerreroanus (Euphorbiaceae), a new species from Guerrero, Mexico, is described and illustrated. During the taxonomic revision for the family Euphorbiaceae in the state of Guerrero, Mexico, specimens were collected that do not correspond to any known species and it was concluded that these represent a new species. This new entity differs from the related species in being a shrub 1.5 m tall, with stellatestipitate trichomes. The leaf blades are membranaceous with entire margins, and the stipules are foliaceous, 3 10 mm long, reniform at the base, and linear at the apex. In addition the pistillate flowers have pedicels 23 mm long, ovate-oblong sepals with a prominent nerve on the abaxial surface, and styles that bifurcate three times.
2807344|Four new species of Piptadenia are described: P. anolidurus (from Amazonian Ecuador, Peru and Brazil), P. buchtienii (from trans-Andean Bolivia), P. cuzconsis (from southern Peru), and P. imatacae (from Venezuelan Guayana); and P. adiantoides var. peruviana J. F. Macbr. is raised in rank to P. peruviana. In relation to P. imatacae the transfer of P. uaupensis Benth. and P. floribunda Kleinhoonte to Adenopodia Presl is shown to be ill-advised. The affinities of each new species are discussed and critical characters are illustrated. Mimosa tessmanii Harms is newly synonymized with P. uaupensis.
2807532|Obolinga zanonii is endemic to the mountain chain of the Sierra de Bahoruco (Dominican Republic)-Massif de la Selle (Haiti) in southern Hispaniola. Its habitat is the humid broadleaf forest ("cloud forest") at approximately 1500 m. Little is known about the dispersal of the seeds, but many fall and germinate below the parent tree. Germination in a nursery occurs in about 30 days.
2807690|A new genus, Bobgunnia, is established in tribe Swartzieae for the African species of Swartzia. Two new combinations are made: B. fistuloides and B. madagascariensis. The new genus has seeds, unlike the remainder of tribe Swartzieae but like the other tribes of Faboideae. The systematic position of Swartzieae is re-evaluated.
2806136|Allium stoloniferum, a new species from southern Mexico, belongs to the A. kunthii alliance on the basis of the appearance of the perianth segments and the presence of long slender rhizomes, but differs by the presence of bulbils.
2805643|The various contributions to this symposium on the "Amentiferae" reach the general conclusion that the group is an artificial aggregation of taxa of diverse origin that have coverged to a common evolutionary plateau in possessing a large syndrome of characteristics that adapt them for successful cross-pollination by wind. Aside from those few families (Eucommiaceae, Casuarinaceae, Fagaceae, and Betulaceae) that apparently do have close relationships (close common origin) with each other and with the Hamamelidales, the following taxa should be removed from the Hamamelidae: Juglandales (Juglandaceae and Rhoipteleaceae) to the Rutales as the Juglandineae near the Anacardiineae; Myricaceae and Leitneriaceae respectively to the Myricales and Leitneriales near the Rutales in the Rutiflorae; Urticales (excluding Barbeya and Eucommia) to the Malviflorae near the Malvales and Euphorbiales; Picrodendron to the Euphorbiaceae; Didymelaceae to the Euphorbiales; Myrothamnaceae to the Brunineae of the Pittosporales; and Balanops, Barbeya, and Canacomyrica, along with Batis, to "taxa incertae sedis."
2806907|Talauma boliviana is described as new and illustrated. This species, first collected in 1989, is the only Magnoliaceae known from Bolivia. It seems to be most closely related to T. sambuensis of northwestern Colombia and eastern Panama.
2806818|Desmanthodium congestum, a new species from Chiapas, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its morphological features are clearly distinguishable from other species of the genus, so much so that this taxon forms a new subgenus within Desmanthodium, subgenus Multiaggregata.
2805515|The new procedure for constructing a Wagner network presented differs from Farris's (1970) method in that the amount of computation required is reduced. The usefulness of this procedure was examined by applying it to the 20 characters considered in a recent monograph of the seven OTU's of the genus Pentachaeta. A single network was derived from some 945 or more networks possible for this group. A comparison of the network constructed by this simplified method to that constructed by Farris' procedure revealed no differences. An attempt to reconstruct the cladistic history of this group by generating a Wagner tree based on the network resulted in four equally possible trees, suggesting that further data are needed before cladogenesis in this group is resolved.
2806913| Rapatea salensis, a new species from the vicinity of Sal, French Guiana, is described and illustrated. The new taxon appears to be closely related to R. paludosa Aubl., from which it differs principally in its subcordate, oblique leaf-blade bases, and to R. muaju Garcia-Barr. & Mora, from which it differs mostly in its larger leaf blades. 
2806376|Two new species are added to Cryptochloa, C. unispiculata from Peru and C. capillata from Brazil, the latter transferred from the genus Olyra. The genus Piresia is also augmented by two new species, P. macrophylla from Peru and P. leptophylla from Bahia, Brazil. These species represent, respectively, the westernmost and easternmost limits of distribution of the genus.
2805799|Aristolochia watsoni Wooton and Standley is shown to be the correct name for A. porphyrophylla Pfeifer, and A. lassa I. M. Johnst, the correct name for A. watsoni, sensu Pfeifer.
2807080|This report includes commentary on taxa in the following genera: Canavalia, Crotalaria, Dalea, Galactia, Lespedeza, Lupinus, Rhynchosia, Strophostyles, and Vigna. The generic circumscription of Sesbania and of Dalea is presented. Nomenclatural transactions include Lespedeza hirta var. curtissii (Clewell) Isely, stat. nov.; Dalea adenopoda (Rydb.) Isely, stat. nov.; Lupinus westianus var. aridorum (McFarlin ex Beckner) Isely, stat.nov.; and Galactia microphylla (Chapman) Rogers ex Hall & Ward, stat. nov.
2807667|Fieldwork in western Oaxaca and central Guerrero, in connection with the project to enumerate the flora of the Mixteca Alta region of Oaxaca, has resulted in the discovery of the following taxa: Psacaliopsis paneroi var. juxtlahuacensis, Roldana mixtecana (Senecioneae); Sinclairia ismaelis (Liabeae); Cosmos juxtlahuacensis, Tagetes arenicola, and Verbesina juxtlahuacensis (Heliantheae). All but the last are illustrated, and their distinctive morphological traits are discussed and compared to putative sister species.
2666508|Two Mexican species, Abelia mexicana and A. grandifolia, are proposed as new. They are morphologically related to A. coriacea Hemsley, from which they can be distinguished by their larger leaves and by flowers and the hispid vestiture on the abaxial side of midvein of the leaves. Abelia grandifolia differs from A. mexicana by its decumbent habit, subcoriaceous leaves with bullate surface, and distribution. The former is known from Oaxaca and the latter from Queretaro. Descriptions, figures, and a comparative table are provided.
2805533|In an attempt to clarify the taxonomy of the polymorphic maritime lichens of the Ramalina siliquosa group in Europe, variation was analyzed in visible and chemical characteristics of 1042 specimens from four localities (one station each in Scotland, Wales, England, and Brittany). The plants belong to six major chemical types representing a replacement series of closely related medullary depsidones. There is a broad correlation of chemical and visible traits. The narrower-lobed often basally blackened indivuals (corresponding approximately to the usual concpet of "R. curnowii") produce no medullary constituents nor norstictic or stictis acids. The broader-lobed unblackened ones (corresponding approximately to the usual concept of "R. siliquosa") produce stictic, salazinic, protocetraric, or hypoprotocetraric acids. The proportion of each chemical type in the four populations studied varies markedly. The southern (English and French) populations togheter contain all six chemical variants in roughly similar proportions. However, to the north, in Wales and Scotland, the populations become simpler as some chemical races drop out and salazinic acid-producing plants predominate. These findings correlate well with the general geographic distribution of the chemical variants from a study of 117 herbarium specimens. The chemically distinct plants have different amplitudes of ecologic tolerance which appear to regulate niche selection in the Ramalina zone, the conspicuous vegetational belt which these lichens form above the intertidal zone on the Atlantic and Baltic coasts of Europe. The complex is interpreted as a set six species differing to an extent by visible traits but primarily by chemical, geographical, and ecological ones. Three of the species are new: Ramalian atlantica Culb., R. stenoclada Culb., and R. druidarum Culb. A hypothetical scheme is suggested to explain the evolutionary origin of the species recognized.
2806819|This paper reports the results of our continuing investigation of the Orchidaceae of the Bahama Archipelago. Included are the addition to the orchid flora of a species not previously reported, Harrisella filiformis (Sw.) Cogn.; descriptions of four natural hybrids, Encyclia x guzinskii, Encyclia x hillyerorum, Encyclia x knowlesii, and Tolumnia x adamsii, heretofore unknown; five distributional extensions; and the reinstatement of the name Encyclia altissima Schltr.
40648095|Amyris amaznica, from the Amazonian forests of northeastern Ecuador, is described. This new species is characterized by a shrubby or arborescent habit, very large unifoliolate leaves, long petioles, and fasciculate, pseudoracemose inflorescences. Se describe Amyris amazonica, una nueva especie de arbusto o arbolillo de la selva Amaznica del nororiente de Ecuador. Esta nueva especie se caracteriza por presentar hojas unifolioladas con largos pecolos y muy grandes lminas e inflorescencias pseudoracemosas fasciculadas.
2806910| Raputia, based on R. aromatica from French Guiana, comprises 10 species, which range from Venezuela and French Guiana to Amazonian Colombia, Peru, and Brazil. The genus can be recognized by the combination of opposite, 1- or 3-foliolate leaves; cauline, circinate inflorescences; quincuncial sepals; and white or green, +- fleshy, 2-lipped corollas. Three new species are described: R. brevipedunculata from French Guiana and Amap, Brazil; R. megalantha from Amazonian Peru and adjacent Brazil; and R. simulans from the upper Amazon basin of Brazil, Colombia, and Peru. Three new combinations are made: R. amazonica, R. szczerbanii, and R. hirsuta, and as a result of the latter, Achuaria becomes a synonym of Raputia. A key to and descriptions and distribution maps of the species are provided. 
2805849|Chromosome numbers are reported for 190 collections of Castilleja of the Great Basin-Rocky Mountains and adjacent regions in western North America. Polyploidy has played a major role in evolution of this genus. Of the 35 taxa represented. 14 are exclusively diploid (n=12). The remaining 21 taxa exhibit polyploidy: eight are tetraploid only, two are octoploid only, while 11 of the more wide-ranging species have two or more levels of polyploidy. Both C. rhexifolia and C. sulphurea have diploid, tetraploid, and octoploid races while the widespread C. Miniata has four (2x, 4x, 8x, and 10x). Where appropriate, the role of polyploidy and hybridization in Castilleja evolution and their relevance to taxonomy are discussed for individual species.
4099009| A new aquatic, arsenic-tolerant species of Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) endemic to Chihuahua, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It belongs to Eleocharis sect. Eleogenus series Maculosae. A key for the species of Eleocharis sect. Eleogenus from Mexico is included. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) acutica, tolerante a altas concentraciones de arsnico, y endmica de Chihuahua Mxico. Forma parte de la seccin Eleogenus serie Maculosae. Se incluye una clave para las especies de Eleocharis sect. Eleogenus de Mxico. 
2806309|Astragalus (sect. Minerales) shultziorum, related to A. molybdenus Barneby which is endemic to the tundra zone of the Colorado Rocky Mountains, is described from the crest of the Salt River Range in western Wyoming, illustrated and discussed.
2806481|Chromosome numbers for 106 species in 36 genera of Mexican ferns are reported. Of these, 47 are first reports for the species. Ten additional counts differ from previous reports. These counts suggest taxa where additional sampling might aid in making taxonomic decisions.
2807760|Taxonomic revision of South American species of Grindelia Willd. has revealed a new species from Argentina, with homogamous capitula and cushion-shaped habit. The taxon is herer described and illustrated.
2806927|Revision of Protium in eastern Amazonia and the Guianas yielded one new section, three new species, three new subspecies, and five new combinations in the genus. Section Sarcoprotium Daly is distinguished principally by the cucullate petals with clawed bases and usually with a dorsal thickening produced vertically as an appendage; staminate inflorescences with a few 3-merous flowers; thecae of the anthers completely separated by the connective and the dehiscence latero-introrse; and fruit ellipsoid when only one pyrene develops.
2806076|Elleanthus stolonifer and E. tillandsioides are new species in the E. poiformis complex of section Chloidelyna. Elleanthus lentii is a new species in section Stachydelyna. Elleanthus stolonife is widespread in the mountains of Costa Rica and Panama; E. tillandsioides is found only in the lowland forests of southeastern Costa Rica; E. lentii is limited to the Cordillera de Guanacaste of Costa Rica.
41406758|Carapa vasquezii from western Amazonia is described and illustrated. The new species differs from the closely related C. guianensis in having leaflets with an obtuse to rounded apex and a farinose midrib, farinose inflorescence and flower pedicels, 6-ovulate locules, and smaller seeds with a very much reduced hilum.
3218433| Five new species of Hypolytrum Rich. from South America are described and illustrated. Hypolytrum amorimii and H. jardimii, both of sect. Bullata T. Koyama, are species with pseudopetioles and colored leaves, and endemic to the rain forest of southeastern Brazil. Hypolytrum bahiense (sect. Hypolytrum), a species with a lax synflorescence and two, free and lightly scabridulous floral bracts, is endemic to the rain forest of southeastern Bahia, Brazil. Hypolytrum leptocalamum (sect. Hypolytrum), a species with lax synflorescence and spike ellipsoid to cylindrical, is restricted to area of tepuis in the Guayana Highland (Brazil, Guyana, and Venezuela). Hypolytrum paraense (sect. Hypolytrum), a species with three, partly connate and densely scabridulous floral bracts, is restricted to the rain forest of the Amazon Basin, in the state of Par, Brazil. 
2806594|Two new species, Vernonia sagasteguii and V. paucartambensis, from Peru are described, illustrated, and their relationships discussed.
2805603|Pterandra sericea, a new species from southeastern Venezuela and western Guyana, is described, illustrated, and compared with its nearest relative, P. flavescens, another species of the Guayana Highland.
2807762|The new species Paullinia lingulata from French Guiana is described, illustrated, and compared with a vegetatively similar species found in French Guiana.
2805461|The genus Jaegeria consists of a diploid-polyploid complex of eight species found in moist habitats from Mexico to South America. The distributions, habitals, generic affinities, and tribal plecement are discussed. Chromosome numbers were determined for all species except J. axillaris, which is known only from Colombia. J. glabra and J. pedunculata are diploid (2n=18); J. hirta, J. macrocephala, J. gracilis, and J. crassa are tetraploid (2n=36); J. bellidiflora is octoploid (2n=72). One Galapagos Island endemic, J. gracilis, is quite similar to the common mainland species, J. hirta, but the other endemic, J. crassa, is quite distinct from any other species. J. bellidiflora is most similar morphologically to J. glabra; J. macrocephala is allied to J.pedunculatta. J. axillaris is somewhat distinct from the other species.
2806443|Anacamptodon is shown by SEM to have a typically formed diplolepideous exostome. Fabronidium is transferred to the Leskeaceae near Schwetschkea, with a single species, F. guatemaliensis (C. Mull.) comb. nov. Mamillariella is redescribed and illustrated from authentic material and is placed in the Leskeaceae near Lindbergia. The monotypic Helicodontiadelphus is described and illustrated from the type and only known collection. Helicodontiadelphus australiensis Dix. is synonymized with Eriodon cylindritheca (Dix.) Dix. & Sainsb. of the Brachytheciaceae. Bryobartlettia costata gen. et sp. nov. is described from New Zealand and is placed in the Leskeaceae near Iwatsukiella. A summary of the generic changes in the Fabroniaceae is provided in chart form.
41406761|A new genus of Picramniaceae from tropical America, Nothotalisia, is described. Of the three species in the genus, N. piranii and N. cancellata, are new to science. The third, N. peruviana, was originally described as Talisia peruviana in the Sapindaceae. The genus and all three species are described, illustrated, and distinguished by means of a key. El nuevo gnero Neotropical Nothotalisia de la familia Picramniaceae es descrito. De las tres especies en el gnero, N. piranii y N. cancellata son nuevas para ciencia. La tercera especie, N. peruviana, rue describida originalmente como Talisia peruviana en la familia Sapindaceae. Las tres especies dentro de este gnero nuevo son descritas, ilustradas y distinguidas mediante una clave.
2805983|Hybridizatioin experiments were carried out with 12 of the approximately 15 species in the complex. The crosses involved plants at various ploidy levels from diploid (n=8) to duodecaploid (n=48). Viable F progeny were obtained from 26% of the crosses involving diploids, and from 66% of the crosses between polyploids. All but a few of the progeny had a high degree of pollen fertility, and all of those examined had regular pairing of chromosomes at meiosis. Even at the diploid level few reproductive barriers isolate the taxa of this complex, although morphologically distinct entities can be recognized.
2807548|Two new species, Justicia clivalis and J. irwinii, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives.
2806503|Despite their economic and ecological importance, Amazonian palms have been largely neglected by contemporary taxonomists. The resulting confusion at the specific level is a serious impediment to research efforts by specialists in other fields. To assess the state of systematic collections presently available in Amazonia, we conducted a survey of the palm specimens in three Brazilian herbaria (MG, IAN and INPA). Twelve criteria were utilized to measure the quality of the specimens. We found that most of the 897 specimens are reasonably complete a physical sense, but a large proportion lack crucial information on their labels. Curating facilities are in serious need of improvement, as is evident from the significant (26%) percentage of specimens found to be in an unreasonable state of preservation. A checklist of the 232 currently recognized palm species in Brazilian Amazonia shows that 145 (62.5%) are not represented by identified specimens, and that the representation which does exist lacks depth. To improve the quality and representativeness of collections in regional herbaria, we suggest procedures for collecting and storing palms as well as policies designed to intensify collecting efforts in Amazonia.
2807419|Socratea montana, a new species from Colombia, is described and illustrated, and its relationships discussed. Two groups of species within the genus are characterized.
2805951|Coreopsis congregata Blake is out of place in the genus Coreopsis. Its achene morphology, pubescence, leaf cutting and geographical range suggest that it would be better treated in the genus Coreocarpus (Coreocarpus congregatus) and that transfer is proposed.
2806396|Cryptochloa dressleri is a new species that inhabits shaded forests in Panama, and is striking in its leaves, which are dark purple beneath and green above. The presence of two, rather than three, stamens is also unusual in the genus. Comments are made on the possible significance of the strong pigmentation in the leaves and on the occurrence of the many large crenate-vertical silica bodies in both epidermises.
2806344|Species of Rhus subgen. Lobadium have in the past been grouped into five sections: Pseudosumac, Styphonia, Pseudoschmaltzia, Rhoeidium and Lobadium. Reexamination of the morphological criteria used to delimit the sections, as well as consideration of data from flavonoid chemistry and wood anatomy, suggest that the affinities of this group of taxa are best reflected by recognizing three sections and three subsections. The names Pseudosumac and Pseudoschmaltzia are rejected as being nomina nuda.
2807372|Mecranium neibense is described and illustrated from the Sierra de Neiba of the Dominica Republic in broad-leaved cloud and moist pine forests near the border with Haiti. The new species is compared to its closest relative, M. puberulum, a species endemic to the Cordillera Central-Massif du Nord of Hispaniola.
2807007|Miconia zanonii, which occurs in broad-leaved cloud forests at four localities in the Cordillera Central of the Dominican Republic, is described and Illustrated. It is compared with M. Krugii and M. samanensis, two probably close relatives within Miconia sect. Chaenopleura.
2807663|A comparison of some genera of the Condamineeae (Rubiaceae) with a few taxa of closely related tribes (Rondeletieae, Calycophylleae, and Cinchoneae) revealed that some species of Chimarrhis (Condamineeae s. 1.) Bathysa (Rondeletieae), and Calycophyllum (Calycophylleae) are often misassigned to genera. The taxonomic significance of calycophylls is discussed; the generic boundaries of Chimarrhis, Bathysa, and Calycophyllum are reevaluated; and their similarities and differences are discussed. As a result, a new calycophyllous species of Chimarrhis from the Amazon, C. gentryana, is described, two of its species are transferred to Bathysa (B. Bathysoides, B. perijaensis), and one species of Bathysa (B. difformis) is reduced to synonymy under Chimarrhis (C. turbinata).
4497342| Caesalpinia oyamae, a new species from the Ro Balsas Depression, Mexico, is described and illustrated based on morphological evidence. It is similar to Caesalpinia hintonii, and grows in seasonally dry forests, between 500-1490 m. 
2666630|A Species erroneously described as a Diospyros is here transferred to Lissocarpa, as L. Tetramera (Rushby) P. E. Berry. This gives a total of five species currently recognized in Lissocarpaceae. A key to the species and a discussion of the individual taxa are presented.
2806608|Plants of Aster sandwicensis (A. Gray in H. Mann) Hieron. belong in A. subulatus Michaux but are recognized as taxonomically distinct from those of var. subulatus. A new combination is needed: A. subulatus var. sandwicensus (A Gray in H. Mann) A. G. Jones, comb. nov. Chamisso s. n. (G-DC!) is chosen as the lectotype.
4098951|Astragalus bibullatus is endemic to limestone glades in the Central Basin of Tennessee, and except for one population in Illinois, A. tennesseensis is endemic to limestone glades in the Central Basin and in the Moulton Valley of Alabama. However, A. tennesseensis has been extirpated from four counties in Illinois, from its only known site in Indiana, from one county in Tennessee, and from one county in Alabama. Astragalus bibullatus is closely related to the geographically widespread Great Plains taxon A. crassicarpus var. crassicarpus (section Sarcocarpi), whereas A. tennesseensis is the only taxon in section Tennesseensis. Both species are shallow-rooted, hemicryptophyte perennials without vegetative reproduction, have no effective means of seed dispersal, form long-lived seed banks, have similar life cycle phenologies, are intolerant of heavy shade, and have moderate amounts of genetic diversity. Much additional information is available on the autecology of A. tennesseensis. Its primary habitat is the transition zone between open glades and glade woods, where physical environmental factors are intermediate between those of the adjacent zones. Seedling-juvenile survival is low. Plants flower first in their second to fifth year and only a few times before dying, are self-incompatible, respond to drought by shedding leaves and by accumulating large amounts of proline, and compete poorly. Populations exhibit high fluctuations in number of individuals and have high turnover rates. A greenhouse study of A. bibullatus and A. crassicarpus var. crassicarpus did not identify any difference in responses of these species to light or soil moisture that could account for the great differences in geographic ranges. Thus, historical factors were also considered to explain the narrow endemism of A. bibullatus. Finally, we present previously unpublished data on the effect of light level and of competition with the cedar glade dominant Sporobolus vaginiflorus in several watering regimes on growth of A. tennesseensis. The role of these factors in restriction of this species to its transition zone microhabitat is discussed.
2805488|The taxonomic composition of Phrygilanthus has long been a source of confusion. Until recently the genus was considered to be distributed from Mexico, Central and South America, to Australia, New Guinea, and the Philippines. Analyses of floral morphology, inflorescense structrue, life form, fruit type, and especially chromosome numbers indicate that phrygilanthus, as classically circumscribed, is a highly heterogeneous and artificial assemblage containing elements now referable to the following ten genera: Cecarria, Desmaria, Gaiadendron, Ligaria, Muellerina, Notanthera, Psittacanthus, Struthanthus, Tripodanthus, and Tristerix. Phrygilanthus itself is nomenclaturally illegitimate and must be replaced by Notanthera. A synopsis of the genera segregated from the Phrygilanthus group is included. A key to the New World genera of Loranthaceae is also appented as well as a nomenclator indicating the present generic status of taxa at one time or another assigned to Phrygilanthus. One genus, Cecarria, is described as new; five new combinations are made: Cecarria obtusifolia (Merr.) Barlow, Psittacanthus palmeri (Wats.) Barlow & Wiens, Struthanthus panamensis (Rizzini) Barlow & Wiens. Tristerix aphyllus (DC.) Barlow & Wiens, and Tristerix grandiflours (Ruiz & Pavon) Barlow & Wiesn.
2806845|A new variety, Acacia tenuifolia (Linnaeus) Willdenow var. producta is described and Ilustrated. The typification of the species is discussed. Acacia paniculata Willdenow and A. multipinnata Ducke are lectotypified and placed in synonomy of Acacia tenuifolia.
2805770|Over 30 flavonoids, some of which are unusual types of flavonols and flavones, occur in the taxa Hymenoxys scaposa, H. acaulis, and H. ivesiana. The patterns of distributions of these compounds are correlated more closely with an east-west geographical range than with the formally recognized identity of the plant, as deduced from its morphology. The exact significance of these observations is not yet clear but the chemistry, as now known, suggests that chemical races have envolved semi-independently of morphological races in this group of species, or that complex hybridization may be in progress.
2806626|Lopholejeunea erugata is provided as a new name for Ptychocoleus inermis Steph., based on examination of the type and one additional collection. Transfer of the name of P. inermis to Lopholejeunea is impossible due to the existence of L. inermis Steph., a very different species from New Guinea. Lopholejeunea erugata is characterized by the presence of a clavate perianth lacking keels or other ornamentation, acute to apiculate leaf apices, and the occasional presence of Lejeunea-type gynoecial innovations.
2666563|Routine identification of Asteraceae specimens sent to the Herbarium of the University of Texas at Austin has resulted in the discovery of the following taxa: Acourtia ciprianoi (Mutisieae) and Coreopsis bolanosana and Verbesina spooneri (both Heliantheae). All the new species are illustrated.
2805521|The karyotypes of Renanthera storiei and Trichoglottis fasciata and the meiotic behavior in their hybrid were investigated. Considerable differences in chromosome morphology were observed for the two species. The karyotype of R. storiei was more asymmetrical with a lower mean F percentage than that of T. fasciata. Also, variation in the largest pair of chromosomes as well as in the satellite chromosomes was apparent. Meiosis in the hybrid was highly irregular. Observations on karyotypes and meiotic behavior indicate a more distant relationship between Trichoglottis and Renanthera than among Renanthera, Arachnis, and Vandopsis.
2807382|An index to the collectors and types included in the portion of the Hobart and William Smith Colleges Herbarium (DH) recently deposited at the New York Botanical Garden (NY) is presented.
2806570|Brodriguesia santosii, gen. & sp. nov., from the coastal rain forest of Bahia, is described, illustrated and compared with nearly related genera of the tribe Detarieae. In addition, three new species, Arapatiella emarginata (the second species of the genus), Swartzia oblata, S. pinheiroana and one new variety, Goniorrhachis marginata var. bahiana, are presented.
2666577|A taxonomic treatment of Salvia sect. Ekmania, a group of tall shrubs endemic to the Caribbean island of Hispaniola, is provided. Morphology, phenology, pollination biology, habitats, and distributions are discussed. Species boundaries are examined using phenetic analysis of morphological data. Eight species are here accepted as belonging to the section. Two recently described species, S. lavendula and S. paryskii, are considered for inclusion in the section, but only the latter appears to be a member. Salvia lachnaiclada and S. ottoschulzii are treated as conspecific. Salvia bahorucona is recognized as a distinct species.
40792904|La especie nueva Serjania glandulosa, de Serra do Cabrai, Brasil, es descrita, ilustrada y comparada con la especie ms prxima S. acutidentata. Adicionalmente se describen caracteres de epidermis y del polen. Esta especie es un endemismo de la vegetacin de campos rupestres. Pertenece a Serjania seccin Serjania. Se provee una clave para identificar las especies relacionadas con S. glandulosa. A new species, Serjania glandulosa, from Serra do Cabrai, Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared to its putative closest relative S. acutidentata. Also, characters of epidermis and pollen grains are described. This species is endemic to the campo rupestre vegetation. It belongs to Serjania section Serjania. A key to identify related species from S. glandulosa is included.
2806780|Townsendia smithii, from northwestern Arizona, is described, illustrated and contrasted with other Arizona species in a key.
2807212|A new species, Ranunculus lambayequensis, from the department of Lambayeque in Peru with pocket-like nectary scales and smooth and turgid achenes appears to be related to R. donianus and R. bangii of section Epirotes.
2806757|Taxonomic and nomenclatural additions and corrections are provided to update the author's treatment of Senecio and Erechtites in North American Flora II. 10: 50-142, 1978.
2806790|Daltonia fenestrellata Griffin was collected by A. M. Cleef in the Andes of Colombia in 1973. It is charcterized by the cuspidate, incurved or recurved leaf tips, the elongated juxtacostal cells and the apically scabrous seta. It seems most closely allied to D. gomezii Crosby of Costa Rica.
30218771|Dioscorea howardiana is proposed as a new species from Mexico and Central America as far south as Panama, and is described and illustrated. It most closely resembles D. liebmannii. Relationships, distribution, and ecological preferences of the new species are discussed. /// Dioscorea howardiana se propone como una especie nueva de Mxico y Centroamrica, es descrita e ilustrada. Es semejante a D. liebmannii. Se discuten sus relaciones, su distribucin geogrfica y preferencias ecolgicas.
2806669|The types of Amazonian forests subject to inundation can be organized into seven categories which are herewith named and described. This classification is intended to set in order the confusion of terminology used in the past. The types are: (1) seasonal varzea-forest flooded by regular annual cycles of white-water rivers; (2) seasonal igapo-forest flooded by regular annual cycles of black-and clear-water rivers; (3) mangrove-forests flooded twice daily by salt-water tides; (4) tidal varzea-forest flooded twice daily by fresh water backed up from tides; (5) floodplain forest-on low lying ground flooded by irregular rainfall, generally in upper reaches of rivers; (6) permanent white-water swamp forest; (7) permanent igapo-black-water forest. The first five types are periodically inundated and the last two are permanently waterlogged. This terminology is closer to that used by limnologists by restricting the use of igapo to forest inundated by black and clear water.
2807693|Five species (A. escallonioides Schldl. & Cham., A. hirtella Lundell, A. elliptica Thunb., A. sieboldii Miq., and A. wallichii A. DC.) from three subgenera in the genus Ardisia (Myrsinaceae) were examined for self-compatibility, agamospermy, and autogamy using hand-pollination and pollinator-exclusion experiments on both garden plants and wild populations. All five species are self-compatible but not agamospermous. Four of the five species exhibited autogamy. Autogamy was strongly associated with stamen position, anther dehiscence type, protogyny, and inflorescence type. Because self-compatibility is widespread across different subgenera, it may be a general characteristic of the genus Ardisia. The potential impact of self-compatibility on the mating system and population genetic structure is discussed.
3218402| Specimens representing Geonoma stricta, a widespread species in the Amazon region, are variable morphologically, especially in leaf size and shape. Ordination and clustering of quantitative morphological variables indicate that the specimens can be classified in at least four different ways, but none of these is fully supported by Discriminant Analysis. The problem revolves around a group of specimens with intermediate leaf size and shape. Mapping of specimens shows that no grouping is geographically separate from any other. An infraspecific classification is not possible based on the data analyzed here. Principal Component Analysis and a test of hybridity indicate that a small percentage of specimens might be of hybrid origin. /// [Spanish]Espcimens representando Geonoma stricta, uma espcie amplamente distribuda na regio Amaznica, so variaveis morfologicamente, especialmente em forma e tamanho da folha. A ordenao e a anlise de grupo das variveis morfolgicas quantitativas, indicam que estes espcimens podem ser classificados em pelo menos quatro diferentes caminhos, mas nenhum completamente sustentado pela anlise discriminante. O problema gira em torno do grupo de espcimens com folhas de tamanho e forma intermedirios. O mapeamento dos espcimens mostra que nenhum grupo est separado geographicamente do outro. A classifio infraespecfica no  possvel baseada nos dados analisados. A anlise dos componentes principais e um teste de hbridos indicam que uma pequena porcentagem dos espcimens podem ser hbridos. 
2806084|Penstemon floribundus, belonging to sect. Saccanthera (Benth.) A. Gray and known only from the western edge of the Jackson Mountains, Humboldt Co., Nevada, is described, illustrated, and discussed.
2806372|Ceratozamia norstogii sp. nov. from Chiapas, Mexico is described. This species is distinct from all others in the genus in that it has a straight rachis with very narrow leaflets (3-10 mm wide) which are strongly curved and almost round in cross section when dried. It is known only from Chiapas, Mexico and in cultivation.
2805589|Hibiscadelphus distans is described. The validity of the generic concept is considered, a key to the species is provided, and the status of each species is discussed.
2807626|Placing Peperomia berteroana of the Juan Fernandez Islands in the Pacific Ocean in synonymy with P. tristanensis of Tristan da Cunha in the Atlantic Ocean results in a species with a wide geographical disjunction of more than 5000 km. Morphological data indicate that these taxa are best treated as subspecies (P. berteroana subsp. berteroana and P. berteroana subsp. tristanensis).
2807737|A close comparison of Bathysa and Schizocalyx has revealed that the two taxa are congeneric. In addition, the two species currently recognized under Schizocalyx are conspecific and transferred to Bathysa, for which a new combination is proposed (B. bracteosa).
2805746|The floral biology of Nuphar lutea subsp. macrophylla, native to Central Texas, has been investigatd. The flowers are protogynous with anthesis occurring over a period of several days. Flowers are visited by a number of insects but are effectivility pollinated by the beetle Donacia piscatrix Lac., which spends its entire life history inassociation with Nuphar. Evidence is assembled which suggests that the overall floral structure together with the sequence of floral development and the timing of sepal movements (i.e., the opening and closure of the flower) are primary adaptations to assure beetle pollination.
2806769|Two West Indian names in Operculina are briefly discussed and compared with the Old World O. turpethum (L.) S. Manso. The conclusions are made that O. triquetra (Vahl) H. Hallier is a taxonomic synonym of O. turpethum and that O. ventricosa (Bertero) Peter may best be considered a variety of O. turpethum. Typification of Operculina is discussed, and it is found that, although S. Manso had a mixed concept of O. turpethum, this species must be the type of the genus.
2806978| Details of the life of Joo Barbosa Rodrigues, early explorer of the Amazon, renowned specialist on Brazilian orchids and palms, and director of the "Jardim Botanico" of Rio de Janeiro from 1890 to 1909, are presented. Several of his illustrations are reproduced here for the first time. 
2806464|Seed of the genus Glycine Willd. Typically exhibits a muriculate appearance resulting from adherence to the true seed coat of the perisperm or inner pod wall layer. Thickened cell walls of the perisperm superimpose a reticulate network on the seed coat, the type of network ranging from alveolate to stellate depending on the shape of the perisperm cells. Tubercles distributed at intervals give the seed its roughened appearance. Seed lacking an attached perisperm appears smooth and shiny. Seed morphology of 62 collections representing the six species of the subgenus Glycine is examined in detail to elucidate inter- and intraspecific variability. Seed perisperm pattern appears to be characteristic for each species, but there are exceptions. Glycine canescens F. J. Herm. and G. clandestina Willd. seeds possess a reticulate network and tubercles of irregular shape, the perisperm appearing granular in G. clandestina. Seeds of G. latrobeana (Meissn.) Benth. and G. tabacina (Labill.) Benth. lack a distinct network and have stellate tubercles; the perisperm is granular in G. latrobeana and some plants of G. tabacina. A few collections of G. clandestina approach G. tabacina in seed appearance. Glycine tomentella Hayata seeds exhibit a regularly alveolate arrangement, while those of G. falcata Benth. lack a perisperm layer altogether. Variation in seed coat within a species can usually be linked to differences in chromosome number or some aspect of gross morphology. Diploid collections of G. tomentella (2n = 40) exhibit recognizable differences in seed morphology compared with tetraploids (2n = 80), coincident with other striking dissimilarities in gross morphology. An incompletely atached perisperm is accompanied by aneuploidy in several G. tomentella accessions, while other 78 and 38 chromosome aneuploids produce normal seeds.
2666490|Eugenia argyrophylla and E. morii from Saul in Central French Guiana are described and illustrated.
2806901|Piper truman-yunckeri, a new species from eastern Ecuador, is described, illustrated, and contrasted with related taxa.
4099012|The three known populations of Isoetes tennesseensis were examined to document and analyze their morphological and anatomical characters. Characters examined included velum coverage, lacunae, leaf form and size, sporangial wall cells, and ligule and labium morphology. Three types of morphological patterns were found: stable, variable, and dimorphic. The discovery of dimorphism between mega- and microsporophylls for velum coverage, velum length, sporangium size, and ligule shape is of particular interest. This study presents a model for future work designed to complement current species descriptions and it establishes a baseline for morphological comparisons with other Isoetes.
2807003|The genus Sphagnum is reviewed for Paraguay, with an emphasis on recent collections. Five species and one variety are recognized: S. perichaetiale Hampe, S. magellanicum Brid., S. pulchricoma C. Mull., S. itabense Crum & Buck, sp, nov., S. flaccidum Besch., and S. flaccidum var. lindmanii (Warnst.) Warnst. Sphagnum flaccidum is redescribed; it is illustrated, as are S. perichaetiale and S. itabense.
2805979|Bauhinia flagelliflora Wunderlin, B. haughtii Wunderlin, and B. pichinchensis Wunderlin, all endemic to Ecuador, are described and illustrated.
2806841|Ionactis caelestis Leary & Nesom is a new species known from a single population that occurs on the Aztec Sandstone near Bridge Mountain in the Spring Mountains of Clark County, Nevada. It is placed in the genus Ionactis (=Aster subg. Ianthe) on the basis of its crowded, multicipital crown, lack of persistent basal leaves and presence of densely arranged cauline ones, strongly carinate phyllaries, blue rays, disc style branches with linear-lanceolate appendages, asymmetric carpopodia, double pappus, and chromosome number of 2n = 9 II. A key to the four species of the genus emphasizes the distinction of the new species in its taproot, the abundant, large, glandular trichomes on its stems and leaves, and disc flowers with sterile ovaries. Ionactis is more similar to the goldenaster (Heterotheca) lineage than to Aster, with which it has been allied formerly. The core of the goldenaster genera differ from Ionactis primarily in their yellow-rayed heads, the crystal complement within cells of their disc corollas, and their primarily multinerved achenes.
40648248|A comparative study of leaf architecture and anatomy of 42 species of Bernardia and other genera related of Acalyphoideae was undertaken to identify characters that support infrageneric and specific delimitation. Thirty variable foliar architectural and anatomical characters were studied. Some characters are consistent (e. g., venation pattern, secondary and tertiary vein arrangement, presence or absence of agrophic veins, type of aroles, bundle sheath cell type, presence or absence of fibers in the mesophyll, trichome type, stomata location, and type of crystals), and characterize genera. In addition, foliar character distribution within Bernardia supports the most recent infrageneric classification. Se realiz un estudio comparativo de la arquitectura y anatoma foliar de 42 especies de Bernardia y otros gneros relacionados de la subfamilia Acalyphoideae. Se estudi la variacin de 30 caracteres de arquitectura y anatoma foliar. Algunos caracteres (como el sistema de venacin, el arreglo de las venas secundarias y terciarias, la presencia o ausencia de venas agrficas, el tipo de areolas, el tipo de clulas de la vaina, la presencia o ausencia de fibras en el mesfilo, el tipo de tricomas, la ubicacin de los estomas y el tipo de cristales) son consistentes y permiten la caracterizacin de cada gnero. Adicionalmente, la distribucin de los caracteres foliares en Bernardia apoya la ms reciente clasificacin infragenrica.
4098966|Physaria pulvinata is described from isolated, grayish, argillaceous shale outcrops in Dolores and San Miguel Counties of southwestern Colorado. It may be distinguished from the related P. intermedia by its caespitose, mound-forming habit, and from P. navajoensis in that its fruits are pubescent. The new species keys to P. rectipes in available floras and monographs, and differs from that species in being mound-forming from a many-branched caudex.
2807141|A morphometric analysis of Opuntia spinosior O, fulgida, and their putative hybrid, O. xkelvinensis was supplemented with cytogenetic data and pollen stainability for all OTUs. The morphometric analysis supported the hypothesis for the hybrid origin of O. xkelvinensis and indicated that limited backcrossing has occurred between O. xkelvinensis and O. spinosior. Almost all individuals investigated of O. xkelvinensis are triploid, with 33 chromosomes, those of Opuntia fulgida are mostly diploid, but in part triploid, and all of O. spinosior investigated are diploid. The very high percentage of sterile seed produced by triploid O. xkelvinensis is almost certainly a consequence of unequal segregation of chromosomes in pollen mother cells during anaphase I. The ability of O. xkelvinensis to reproduce vegetatively is attributable to its O. fulgida parentage. It is hypothesized that the success of O. xkelvinensis is a result of its particularly preadaptive genome isolated from infrequent backcrossing via meiotic irregularities of odd-polyploidy and its ability to reproduce vegetatively.
2805857|Eleocharis liogieri, described as new from Santo Domingo and the Lesser Antilles, belongs to sect. Tenuissimae in the Cyperaceae.
2807569|A new species, Thenardia chiapensis, is described and illustrated. The new species is the first taxon in the genus to have its fruits, two fused follicles, described and illustrated. In addition, observations of T. floribunda specimens have revealed the existence of a novel character, coiled filaments, previously undescribed for the genus.
2806850|A key to, and descriptions of, the eleven species of Zamia in Panama are presented. Four of these are new species: Z. cunaria, Z.dressleri, Z. ipetiensis, and Z. neurophyllidia. Floristically, Zamia is represented in Panama by three elements: three Central American species, Z. acuminata, Z. fairchildiana, and Z.skinneri, which reach thier southern limits in central Panama; three northern South American species, Z. chigua, Z. manicata, and Z. obliqua, which reach their northern limits in Panama; and five endemic Panamanian species, Z. cunaria, Z. dressleri, Z. ipetiensis, Z. neurophyllidia, and Z. pseudoparasitica. These distributions are interpreted by a consideration of sister group relationships based upon derived morphological character states.
2805885|Chromosome counts are reported for nine taxa of the genus Crotalaria. Previous reports of n = 16 are confirmed for C. sagittalis L. and C. stipularia Desv. First counts of n = 16 are reported for C. bupleurifolia var. bupleurifolia var. bupleurifolia, C. nayaritensis, C. polyphylla, C. purshii, C. quercetorum, C. rotundifolia var. rotundifolia, and C. rotundifolia var. vulgaris.
2806216|A new species of Dioon (D. caputoi), found in Puebla, Mexico, is characterized by narrow leaflets, arising at an acute angle from the rachis and regularly and widely spaced along it. This species has hitherto been confused with D. purpusii.
2806375|Begonia buseyi, B. croatii, B. dressleri and B. morii from Panama and B. louis-williamsii from Guatemala are described as new, illustrated and discussed.
2806855|Siphocampylus platysiphon (Campanulaceae: Lobelioideae) is described as a new Species from northern Peru. It is a member of subsect. Megastromi in sect. Brachysiphon and is most closely related to S. giganteus, a species common to the north in Ecuador and Colombia.
2807602|The genus Griselinia (Griseliniaceae) is revised and a new species, Griselinia carlomunozii, is described from coastal quebradas in the Atacama Desert of northern Chile. An illustration, a discussion of its possible relationships, a key, and descriptions of all species are provided.
2807106|Guarea michel-moddei, a new species from central French Guiana is described and illustrated. It differs from the morphologically similar G. cristata of western Amazonia by its unbranched habit; shorter, less dense indumentum of the young parts, leaves, and inflorescence; bullate leaves, shorter inflorescence, shorter pubescence on the corolla; and smaller corolla and staminal tube.
2806024|The genus Fabronia in South America is found to represent five taxa: F. ciliaris var. ciliaris, F. ciliaris var. wrightii, F. ciliaris var. polycarpa. F. macroblepharis and F. jamesonii. Synonymy, brief discussion, illustrations and a key are provided. Fabronia enervis Herz., hom. illeg., is the basis for the new genus Mahua.
2805536|Polymnia mcvaughii from Jalisco, Mexico, is described as new. This herbaceous species appears to belong in the mainstream of evolution within the genus. It exhibits marked affinities to several species, but most closely resembles P. oaxacana Schultz-Bip. Illustrations of important features are included, along with a list of key characteristics.
2807127|The fern genus Elaphoglossum is well-represented in the Venezuelan pteridoflora with 98 species. Careful observation of the indument of rhizome and blade is necesary to distinguish the taxa. Thirty-three species and one variety are here described as new: E. anceps, E. appressum, E. atrorubens, E. atrosquamatum, E. chrysopogon, E. crispatum var. crispatum, E. crispatum var. beitelli, E. delicatulum, E. dolichopus, E. drewianum, E. eriopus, E. floccosum, E. grallator, E. hieracioides, E. incubus, E. luteynii, E. maguirei, E. nigrocostatum, E. obovatum, E. ornithoglossum, E. ortegae, E. pilosius, E. praetermissum, E. stenoglossum, E. stergiosii, E. steyermarkii, E. styriacum, E. succubus, E. tachirense, E. tantalinum, E. urophyllum, E. vanderwerffii, E. vareschianum, and E. variolatum.
2807479|Psoralea (Leguminosae: Papilionoidae) sections Axillariflorae, Capitatae, and Spicatae, and Psoralea subseries Sparsiflorae, Fasciculatae, Spicato-capitatae, and Spicato-racemosae are lectotypified.
2807710| Aristolochia dalyi, from western Peruvian and Brazilian Amazonia, and A. bahiensis, from Bahia, Brazil, are described and illustrated. The species belong to Aristolochia ser. Thyrsicae and A. ser. Hexandrae subser. Anthocaulicae, respectively. A key to the eigth western Amazonian species of the series Thyrsicae is presented. Aristolochia dalyi closely resembles A. silvatica Barb. Rodr. from the Ro Negro basin, and A. bahiensis-the first cauliflorous species of Aristolochia known from the Mata Atlantica-is similar to A. guentheri O. C. Schimidt and A. klugii O. C. Schmidt, from the Western Amazon basin. Characters based primarily on the perianth shape, along with some vegetative features, are used to distinguish the two newly described species from their close relatives. 
2807764| Taxonomic confusion among closely related and morphologically similar Deprea species has persisted in the literature and in the identification of species. Morphological variation among three closely related, monophyletic Deprea species was studied to determine if and how they can be distinguished. Their sympatric occurrence in Venezuela afforded an opportunity to couple field study with analysis of herbarium specimens representing their entire geographic range. An analysis of 94 morphological characters resulted in five vegetative and 13 reproductive taxonomically informative traits. Canonical variates analysis clearly separated the three species using six quantitative traits. We conclude that these taxa, although quite variable and similar morphologically, are taxonomically distinct. Results of character analysis indicated that D. orinocensis is morphologically more similar to D. bitteriana than either are to D. paneroi. In D. paneroi, small, sterile anthers on fruit-bearing plants and the absence of fruits on plants possessing large, pollenbeargin anthers, suggest cryptic dioecy. Based on these data, D. granulosa is considered to be a synonym of D. orinocensis. Athenaea bitteriana, a misapplied synonym, is the correct basionym and is applicable to many specimens identified as D. granulosa. We submit a new combination, D. bitteriana (Werderm.) Sawyer & Bentez, and designate a lectotype to accommodate these findings. 
2805600|A new species of Hypocrea, H. avellanea Rogerson & Carey, parasitizing Marasmius subnudus (Ellis) Peck, is described. The development of its imperfect state, perithecia, and asci was studied in culture and compared with that of previously studied species of Hypocrea, Hypomyces and Nectria.
2805690| Anotea flavida (DC.) Ulbr. has been known previously only from the unpublished plate (no. 376) of Sess & Mocio, which was based on a plant (no longer extant) collected in Guerrero in 1789. The rediscovery of this species in 1967 in Guerrero permits a more detailed description to be presented. The species has apparently not been re-collected in the intervening 178 years. 
2805550|The new species is the fourth member of the genus. Morphologically, it is most closely allied to P. liebmannii, but there are ample qualitative and quantitative differences between them. The chromosome numbers of P. liebmannii and P. nelsonii are 2n=56 while P. zinnioides is 2n=84. Philactis fayi is 2n=28 and is considered to represent the diploid complement that was probably involved in the production of the other species through hybridization and chromosome doubling.
2666605|Game tophyte morphology of tropical epiphytic ferns may confer an advantage for establishment on islands. Most tropical, epiphytic ferns belong to five families: Hymenophyllaceae, Grammitidaceae, Vittariaceae, Polypodiaceae, and Elaphoglossaceae. Gametophytes of these families are long-lived and clone-forming. In addition, most Hymenophyllaceae, Grammitidaceae, and Vittariaceae produce dispersible gemmae. Each of these characteristics increases opportunity for outbreeding, and when island floras are statistically compared with floras of adjacent mainlands, island floras are found to be rich in epiphytic species possessing gemmae (Hymenophyllaceae, Grammitidaceae, and Vittariaceae), and depauperate in epiphytic species lacking gemmae (Polypodiaceae and Elaphoglossaceae). We propose that gametophytic gemmae significantly aid long-distance colonization of outbreeding species because gemmae 1) allow gametophytes to exploit available niches through dispersal of gemmae, and through clonal expansion and persistence of the resulting gametophyte, and 2) facilitate sexual reproduction by providing the opportunity for sperm and antheridiogen transfer when gametophytes are distant, and by providing a new source of tissue for antheridia formation.
2807435|In 1843 S. B. Buckley (1809-1884) traveled up the St. Johns River, Florida in search of plants, shells, and possibly other natural history objects. Buckley encountered many difficulties in interior Florida and his trip did not live up to his original expectations. It was unfortunate that he took years to distribute his plant specimens, since few botanists or naturalists had preceded him into that poorly explored region.
2805994|Atemisia Packardiae from the Succor Creek area in southeastern Oregon is described and compared to its nearest relative, A. michauxiana Besser.
2807670|Two new species of Dioscorea, D. gentryi (subgen. Helmia sect. Monadelpha) and D. andromedusae (subgen. Helmia sect. Centrostemon) from Peru, are described and illustrated.
40792893|A new species, Grias purpuripetala, is described. It is the only species of the genus known to have the combination of monocaulous growth form; short inflorescence rachises; purple, erect petals at anthesis; anthers with small thecae and slightly apiculate connectives; and an intrastaminal disc. It is described based on collections from the western slopes of the Andes in the state of Nario in southern Colombia. The authors hypothesize that this spectacular species is bat-or beetle-pollinated because the flowers are nocturnal. This is the only species of the genus with purple petals all others are either white or yellow. Describimos Grias purpuripetala, una nueva especie. Esta es la nica especie del gnero que presenta la combinacin de hbito monocaule, raquis de la inflorescencia corto, ptalos prpura, erectos en la antesis, anteras con tecas pequeas, conectivos apiculados y un disco intraestaminal. La nueva especie es descrita con base a colecciones realizadas en las elevaciones occidentales de los Andes en el estado de Nario, en el sur de Colombia. Se hipotetiza que esta espectacular especie podra ser polinizada por murcilagos o escarabajos debido a que sus flores son nocturnas. Esta es la nica especie en el gnero que tiene ptalos prpura, todas las dems tienen ptalos blancos o amarillos.
2666519|Callipteris is a pantropical fern genus defined by two synapomorphics of its rhizome scales: 1) dark-castaneous to black borders, and 2) bifid marginal teeth. This monograph treats 15 neotropical species of Callipteris that are further defined by the synapomorphy of anastomosing veins (free-veined species of the genus occur in the Neotropics and elsewhere). Three species are newly described here; the remaining 12 were previously classified in Diplazium. All the species of Callipteris grow on wet forest floors at 100-2300 m. In the Neotropics the genus occurs from Guatemala to Bolivia, northern Brazil, and the Lesser Antilles. It has two centers of species richness. The first is the Choco region on the western side of the Andes in Colombia and northwestern Ecuador. This region contains eight species, five of which are endemic. The second center is the mountains of Costa Rica and Panama, where six species occur, three of which are endemic. Only one species, an endemic, occurs in the Lesser Antilles in Martinique, St. Vincent, and Grenada. Four species occur only on the eastern side of the Andes, and these apparently represent at least two separate dispersal events from the western side of the Andes.
2806058|The laterocytic type of stomatal apparatus in angiosperms is considered. Investigation of the stomatal apparatus of 18 species of Hamamelidaceae, representing 15 genera, showed that in addition to the anomocytic, paracytic, and encyclocytic stomatotypes previously known in the family, the laterocytic type is found in several genera (Dicoryphe, Exbucklandia, and others). Study of 15 species of Chloranthaceae, representing all five genera, showed that laterocytic stomates occur in Chloranthus and Sarcandra and sometimes Hedyosmum, along with stomates of other types. Barbeya oleoides (Barbeyaceae) and the four investigated species of Balanops (Balanopaceae) have exclusively (or in B. oliviformis mainly) laterocytic stomates. Laterocytic stomates are present also in Kadsura and Schisandra of the Schisandraceae, along with the previously known paracytic type. In addition to the foregoing genera, laterocytic stomates are known in some members of the Buxaceae, Celastraceae, Hydrangeaceae, Icacinaceae, Platanance, Tetracentraceae and Trochodendraceae.
2807426|A brief historical taxonomic sketch of Biscutella is given. Revisionary study of the genus throughout its geographic areas has led to an infrageneric classification. Two subgenera are recognized, one with two sections.
2807305| A new species of Argemone (Papaveraceae), A. subalpina, is recognized from the subalpine glades of Sierra Pea Nevada, Nuevo Len, Mxico. It is the first member of the poppy family to be associated with timberline vegetation in the New World. The new taxon is closely related to A. platyceras of the Mexican transvolcanic belt, but differs by retrorse cauline spines, broadly ellipsoid flower buds to 20 mm long, caudate sepal norns 3-5 mm long, and recurved fruit spines. 
2806987|Two new combinations are made: Stromanthe macrochlamys (Woodson & Standley), transferred from Calathea, and Ctenanthe amabilis (Morren), transferred from Stromanthe. Calathea crotalifera S. Watson from Guatemala is an earlier name for C. insignis Petersen.
2666528|Castilleja chambersii is described from several collections made in the Coast Range of southwestern Clatsop County, Oregon. The new species is a member of subgenus Castilleja and is most closely related to C. parviflora and C. rupicola. This rare species is known from only three small and geographically restricted populations. Two new meiotic chromosome counts of n = 12 are reported for the new species.
2805837|A narrow endemic of southwestern Utah, Erigeron flagellaris A. Gray var. trilobatus Maguire ex Cronq., is given specific status as Erigeron proselyticus Nesom. It is closely related to two other rare endemics of the Zion National Park area, Erigeron religiosus Cronq. and Erigeron sionis Cronq., but it does not share a similarly close relationship with typical E. flagellaris. Erigeron proselyticus in diploid; E. sionis is tetraploid and probably agamospermic; three diploid populations and several triploid populations of E. religiosus are known, including a population of triploids from the site of a paratype collection of this species. Variation in these triploids suggests the possibility of hybridization with Erigeron divergens Torr. & Gray, or with an unknown species no longer occurring sympatrically with E. religiosus,.
4098991|We describe and illustrate 19 new species of Elaphoglossum from Bolivia: E. ayopayaense, E. carrascoense, E. choquetangae, E. cotapatense, E. crispipalea, E. cruzense, E. elkeae, E. ellenbergianum, E. gonzalesiae, E. inquisitivum, E. madidiense, E. murinum, E. neei, E. palmarum, E. pannosum, E. paucinervium, E. puberulentum, E. pulchrum, and E. sunduei.
2805575|Pollen and seed proteins of seven selected North American and Puerto Rican Typha populations were compared using two serological methods and disc electrophoresis. These methods were capable of discriminating among all taxa studied: Typha latifolia, T. angustifolia, T. X glauca, and T. domingensis. The two hybrid populations were found to contain proteins not found in either parent. Typha domingensis was serologically the most distinct of the four taxa. The diagnostic morphological characteristics for Typha species were studied in all populations, and statistical comparisons are presented. Data from the morphological observations agreed with the information obtained from the chemosystematic research. All data indicate that the three taxa should be maintained as separate species. The hybrid nature of the putative T. X glauca is verified by both the biochemical and morphological data. Observed morphological and biochemical differences support taxonomic treatments in which T. domingensis is designated as a separate species.
2807575|Surface and transverse section achene structures of Bolboschoenus maritimus, B. robustus, B. fluviatilis, B. novae-angliae, B. glaucus, and the putative hybrids B. maritimus x B. robustus and B. glaucus x B. maritimus from North America are described and illustrated with SEM micrographs. The same three types of pericarp structure reported by Browning and Gordon-Gray (1993) from southern Africa were found except that the "type 2" (B. glaucus) was not matched precisely. Intermediate achene structures and other evidence support both the hibrid origin of B. novae-angliae (=B. fluviatilis x B. robustus) and hybridization between B. glaucus and B. maritimus. The new combination Bolboschoenus novae-angliae is made.
2806151|The genus Malvastrum A. Gray is interpreted to include 22 taxa in 14 species. Seven taxa are here described as new, namely: M. americanum var. stellatum, M. tomentosum subsp. pautense, M. bicuspidatum subsp. campanulatum, M. bicuspidatum subsp. oaxacanum, M. bicuspidatum subsp. tumidum var. tumidum, M. bicuspidatum subsp. tumidum var. glabrum, and M. coromandelianum subsp. fryxellii. In addition, two new combinations are proposed, namely: M. tomentosum and M. coromandelianum subsp. capitato-spicatum.
4099039|Quantitative and qualitative data on wood and bark anatomy are given for Muntingia calabura L. and Dicraspidia donnell-smithii Standley. These data are compared with phylogenetic schemes, based on DNA analysis, in which Muntingiaceae belong to the "dipterocarp clade" within Malvales. The data are consistent with this hypothesis, although Muntingiaceae lack pit vestures in vessels, which are seen in the other malvalean families (Cistaceae, Dipterocarpaceae, Neuradaceae, Sarcolaenaceae, Thymeleaceae), and this may represent a loss of pit vestures. All families of the dipterocarp clade agree with both genera of Muntingiaceae in having tracheids as the imperforate tracheary element type (at least ancestrally), although fiber-tracheids also occur in some Dipterocarpaceae and Thymeleaceae. The large size of some malvalean families (with attendant greater diversity in character states) and a paucity of wood studies in those families make for difficulty in comparison of features such as axial parenchyma and ray types with those of Muntingiaceae; character states of these features are consistent with placement of Muntingiaceae in the dipterocarp clade of Malvales. Banded phloem fibers in bark of Muntingiaceae are much like those of other Malvales. Wood of Muntingiaceae is highly mesomorphic according to quantitative vessel features.
2807822| Four new species of Chusquea-C. bahiana, C. bradei, C. leonardiorum, and C. loxensis-are described and illustrated. Chusquea bahiana and C. bradei, classified within subg. Rettbergia within Chusquea based on their infravaginal, geniculate branching and spatheate, often contracted inflorescences, are endemic to the Atlantic forests of Bahia and Esprito Santo, Brazil, where they are relatively uncommon. Chusquea leonardiorum and C. loxensis are native to the pramos of southern Ecuador; C. leonardiorum is moderately widespread, but C. loxensis is known from only two populations in the Parque Nacional Podocarpus in the province of Loja. These two species are allied with Chusquea sect. Chusquea based on their erect to arching or scandent habit, extravaginal branching, and relatively numerous subsidiary branches per node. 
2807370|In many taxonomic treatments, Viola fimbriatula is distinguished from V. sagittata by the length of the petiole. Field experiments, using both cloned plants and plants grown from seed, demonstrated considerable phenotypic plasticity in petiole length. Neither relative nor absolute petiole length furnishes a useful taxonomic distinction here.
2806624|Two heretofore unrecognized species of Myrceugenia are transferred to the genus. Both are calyptrate, a condition until now unknown in the genus. The differences between Myrceugenia and other calyptrate genera of the Myrciinae are indicated. The calyptrate species of Myrceugenia are hypothesized to be only distantly related to each other, but both show close morphological similarity to certain non-calyptrate species. Thus, the calyptra appears to have evolved on two separate occasions in Myrceugenia. It is suggested that the open calyx versus the closed calyx is not a reliable criterion for distinguishing genera.
2807151|Miconia santanana, which occurs in broadleaved forests along streams of pineland habitats in the Cordillera Central of the Dominican Republic, is described and illustrated. It is compared with M. ferruginea and M. adenocalyx, two presumed close relatives within Miconia sect. Chaenopleura. Eco-geographic characterizations and a key are presented for these three species.
2806480|Photography in the ultraviolet wavelength is possible by use of special lenses, special filters, or both. This paper makes available pertinent information on an easy, inexpensive UV photographic technique. A comprehensive bibliography is provided. By using a flash guide number, lens apertures for various lens-subject distances can be calculated. The inexpensive technique is accomplished by simple adaptation of a Kodak Wratten 18A filter to the normal camera lens. The method is equally suited for living material, dried hebarium material, and chromatograms. The technique is useful in studies of pollination ecology, insect energetics, taxonomy, and flavonoid chemistry.
2806529|The University of Utah donated fungi from the A. O. Garrett Herbarium to the New York Botanical Garden (NY) in 1982. Most specimens are members either of the Ustilaginales or Uredinales (Basidiomycotina). Biographical data are given for some of the most importan regional collectors represented: Albert O. Garrett, George L. Zundel, Seville Flowers, Marcus E. Jones, and Patrick J. O'Gara. Other contributors are listed in the appendix.
2806181|Two new species of Chrysobalanaceae from recent collections are described, discussed and illustrated: Couepia nutans, an upland species from the Andes in El Valle, Colombia, and Licania anneae, a lowland species from the Tapajos River basin of Amazonian Brazil.
2806193|Examination of a Jacquin type reveals an incorrect interpretation in a recent treatment of Sidrastrum and requires the publication of the new combination Sidastrum multiflorum as the correct name for the species previously S. acuminatum.
3218415|Four new species of Roupala are described: R. psilocarpa and R. nonscripta from Brazil, R. mexicana from Mexico, and R. filiflora from Bolivia. Their relationships within the genus are discussed.
2666535|A revision of the neotropical subgenus Mertensia of the ulmaceous genus Celtis is presented. This group is a clear-cut entity characterized by the presence of thorns and/or domatia, as well as by bifid stigmas. The species are difficult to separate and numerous species, subspecies and varieties have been recognized. In the present treatment the number of species is reduced to six, including a new and thornless species, C. loxensis. Descriptions of the subgenus and species, a key to species, a list of synonyms, and distribution data are presented.
3218343|Cyrtopodium brunneum, C. lamellaticallosum and C. poecilum var. roseum, from the cerrado and campo rupestre vegetation of central and southeastern Brazil are described and illustrated. Although the description of Cyrtopodium gonzalezii indicated that it is a distinct species, the holotype is referrable to C. brandonianum. The undescribed plants are now described here as C. brunneum. Cyrtopodium gonzalezii is placed in the synonym of C. brandonianum.
2806249|Pachecoa Standley & Steyerm., a monotypic legume genus of Mexico, Guatemala, and Venezuela, is described and illustrated with accompanying notes on its habitat, distribution, reproductive biology, phylogeny, cytology, and relationship (with key) to allied genera.
2805760|Six species of the orchid species Lepanthes are described as new. A seventh species, L. sanguinea, previously known only from Jamaica, is reported from Puerto Rico. The current misspelling of L. selenitepala, the only species of the genus previously reported from Puerto Rico, is corrected. A key to the eight Puerto Rican species of Lepanthes is presented, and the value of several interesting taxonomic characters is discussed. The possibility of apogamy in this genus is raised, and detailed biosystematic investigations are indicated as necessary for a complete understanding of the group.
2806707|Crotalaria foliosa Benth. is found to be a later homonym and the new name Crotalaria mohlenbrockii is proposed to replace it. A new species Crotalaria paraguayensis is described and C. martiana Benth. is redefined.
2805834|A new genus and species, Dedeckera eurekensis, are described from the Last Chance Mountains, Inyo Co., California, from an area just south of the Eureka Valley sand dunes. A member of Polygonaceae, it is most closely related to Eriogonum, differing from that genus in lacking a tubular involucre, and from Stenogonum, Hollisteria, Nemacaulis, and Gilmania in being a shrubby perennial. It differs from all other members of the subfamily Eriogonoideae in having (1) a head of subsessile or sessile flowers borne on a slender peduncle and subtended by 2 to 5 foliaceous bracts, and (2) a single short-pedicellate axillary flower at the base of each peduncle. The numerous yellow-flowered heads are arranged in open cymose inflorescences that terminate short annually produced branches with alternately arranged exstipulate foliage leaves. Eriogonum flexum is transferred to the genus Stenogonum. A key to the genera of subfamily Eriogonoideae is included.
2807107|The taxonomic equations Melanoxylon speciosum Benoist = Recordoxylon amazonicum (Ducke) Ducke and Elephantomene eburnea Barneby & Krukoff (1974) = Cionomene javariensis Krukoff (1979) are proposed. The new combination Recordoxylon speciosum (Benoist) Gazel is validated, and the widely discontinuous distribution of the monotypic genus Elephantomene is mapped.
41406782|Durante la revisin de la familia Lamiaceae para el estado de Guerrero, se descubri una especie nueva de Salvia, perteneciente al subgnero Calosphace.Se presenta la descripcin y una ilustracin de la nueva especie, Salvia diegoae, y se discuten los caracteres que la distinguen de las especies afines. Esta especie presenta flores totalmente blancas, color poco comn dentro del subgnero y se considera afn a Salvia leninae, de la seccin Nivalis. In the course of revising the taxonomy of the family Lamiaceae in the state of Guerrero, Mexico, a new species of Salvia subgenus Calosphace was discovered.Here we present a description and illustration of this new species, Salvia diegoae, and discuss the characters that distinguish it from related species of the genus. Salvia diegoae has white flowers, which are uncommon in subgenus Calosphace. It is related to Salvia leninae of section Nivalis.
23254249|Dos especies nuevas de Staelia con hojas ternadas son descritas e ilustradas. La primera, Staelia paganuccii, fue colectada en el bioma cerrado, mientras que la segunda, S. domingosii pertenece al dominio de las Caatingas del complejo de la Chapada Diamantina. Las dos especies son comparadas con las especies ms cercanas del gnero. Se presentan adems fotografas de ambas especies en sus ambientes. Se agrega un breve comentario sobre las inflorescencias de Staelia y su relevancia es discutida. Two new Brazilian species of Staelia with ternate leaves are described and illustrated. The first, Staelia paganuccii, was collected in the cerrado biome, whereas the second, S. domingosii belongs to the Caatingas domain of the Chapada Diamantina complex. The affinities of the two species within the genus are discussed. Photographs of the plants in their natural environments are provided. A brief commentary on the inflorescence structure of Staelia is presented and its importance is discussed.
2806788|Stuessya, a new genus from the Pacific slopes of southcentral Mexico is described. It is comprosed of three species: S. apiculata, previously assigned to the genus Viguiera: S. perennans, the generotype; and S. michoacana. The latter two taxa are previously undescribed. The genus is characterized by its urceolate, sclerified (at maturity) involucre. Chromosome counts of 2n=34 are reported for S. perennans. Relationships are problematical. but are reckoned to be somewhere between Aldama and Viguiera.
23254253|Se presenta el primer estudio comparativo de la anatoma de la lmina foliar en la subtribu Mauritiinae (Arecaceae) que incluye a todos los gneros y la mayora de las especies reconocidas para el grupo. La anatoma foliar define con claridad a estas palmas neotropicales y permite la identificacin de dos grupos: Lepidocaryum se distingue por la presencia de un mesfilo homogneo, mientras que el grupo formado por Mauritia y Mauritiella comparte la presencia de un mesfilo diferenciado en parnquima en empalizada y esponjoso. Nuestro estudio apoya los arreglos propuestos en las ms recientes filogenias moleculares que han incluido a los tres gneros; sin embargo, no logr identificar caracteres lo suficientemente concluyentes para una separacin especfica. This represents the first comparative study of the leaf anatomy within the subtribe Mauritiinae (Arecaceae) and includes all three genera and most of the recognized species. The leaf blade anatomy clearly defines these neotropical palms and allows the identification of two groups: Lepidocaryum can be separated by its homogeneous mesophyll, while the group formed by Mauritia y Mauritiella has the shared presence of a diferentiated mesophyll into palisade and spongy parenchyma. Our study supports the topologies of the most recent molecular phylogenies that include these three genera; however we did not identify characters that are sufficiently variable for species identification.
2805272|A survey of terpene differences in the 19 species of Salvia indigenous to California and Baja California suggests that identification of species is possible solely on the characteristic composition of terpenes. Further, differences between two introgressing species (S. apiana and S. mellifera) are such that terpenes may be treated as characters from which hybrid indices and histograms may be formulated. Statistical comparison of these data with those from morphology shows a highly significant correlation.
2806189|The new combination Echinodorus bolivianus (Rusby) Holm-Nielsen is proposed, and a description of the species is given with a discussion of the synonymy.
3218377| One new species of Serjania (S. erythrocaulis) belonging to the S. paradoxa group of Serjania sect. Eurycoccus is described and illustrated bringing the total number of species in this group to eight. A second new species, Serjania divaricocca, belonging to sect. Serjania is also described and illustrated. /// [Spanish]Una especie nueva de Serjania (S. erythrocaulis) perteneciente al grupo S. paradoxes de la seccin Eurycoccus es descrita e ilustrada. Con esta especie, el numbeo total de especies conocidas para este grupo aumenta a ocho. Una segunda nueva especie, Serjania divaricocca, perteneciente a la seccin Serjania es tambien descrita e ilustrada. 
2806474|Tetraplodon paradoxus (R. Br.) Hagen was originally described from arctic Canada in 1823 and T. Pallidus Hagen, describen from arctic Scandinavia in 1893, was reported from the Canadian Arctic Archipelago in 1907. Although the two species are distinct, clear-cut and easily distinguished from other members of the genus, they were almost hopelessly confused both conceptually and nomenclaturally with each other and with each other and with T. mnioides (Hedwig) Bruch, Schimper & Gumbel by Hagen in 1910, and his erroneous treatment has been perpetuated by subsequent bryological authors, especially in Scandinavia. Moreover, these two species have been omitted from all comprehensive North American manuals and checklists; the purpose of this paper is to clarify the long-standing confusion and to establish a firm basis for their recognition in the North American bryoflora, from which they have been excluded for far too long. The distinctions between these two species are made clear by means of photograps made from living material, as well as by maps of their geographical distribution in North American.
30218770|La presente revisin tuvo como objetivo la resolucin del complejo Bauhinia macranthera. Por medio de un estudio de morfologa comparada que incluy polen, se reconocen a Bauhinia bartlettii, B. macranthera y B. ramosissima; se restablece B. retifolia y se propone a B. ramosissima var. uniflora, como nueva combinacin. /// The purpose of this study was the resolution of the Bauhinia macranthera complex using comparative morphology, including pollen. Bauhinia bartlettii, B. macranthera B. ramosissima, and B. retifolia are recognized, and B. ramosissima var. uniflora is proposed as a new combination.
2805788|Three new species are described form Estado Baja California, Mexico: A. (sect. Trichopodi) oxiphysopsis; A. (sect. Inflati) sanctorum; and A. (sect. Inflati) moranii.
2806424|Two apparently calcicolous species of apioid Umbelliferae, Aletes calcicola and Donnellsmithia coahuilensis, are described from the Chihuahuan Desert of Coahuila, Mexico.
2806316|Hybrids between Juncus alpinus and J. torreyi (Juncaceae) have been discovered in abandoned limestone quarries and on sandy beaches of Lake Erie in Erie and Ottawa counties, Ohio. The plants are morphologically intermediate in height, inflorescence length, number of glomerules per inflorescence, and number of flowers per glomerule. Both parents are diploid, 2n = 40; the hybrid is also diploid, 2n = 40, but at metaphase I both univalents and unequal bivalents are present. Using starch gel electrophoresis, ten enzymes were studied. The parents show differences in the allozymes of malic dehydrogenase, esterase, and malic enzyme. At each of these loci, the hybrids exhibit both the parental allozymes. Morphological and chromosomal data, augmented by the flavonoid and electrophoretic studes, confirm the hybrid nature of the newly discovered plants. The new taxon is described and named Juncus x stuckeyi.
2805880|Lysimachia X producta has been the subjcet of changing classifications for more than a century. Data from distribution, frequency, phenology, and habitat support the hypothesis of hybrid origin of the taxon. In status it is near the borderline between interspecific hybrid and species; this study supports its classification as the former.
2807447|New varietal combinations are made in Agave vivipara for A. deweyana, A. letonae, A. nivea, A. rubescens and A. angustifolia var. sargentii. A. angustifolia var. marginata and A. angustifolia var. variegata are transferred to A. vivipara as cultivars.
2806691|Four new Ericaceae are described from the Andes of Ecuador: Cavendishia lebroniae, Ceratostema megabracteatum, Orthaea fimbriata, and Sphyrospermum boekei.
4098986|This work reports the Puerto Rico plant collecting itineraries of 1900 and 1902-1903 of Amos Arthur Heller based on the original notebooks recently located at the Herbarium of the University of Washington-Seattle. The utility of historical data for understanding original distributions of rare species is demonstrated for two Puerto Rican species: Buxus vahlii Baill. and Daphnopsis helleriana Urb.
2805490|Aesculus X carnea, originated in cultivation, is considered on morphological grounds to be a hybrid between the American A. pavia and the Eropean A. hippocastanum. The plant is rather fertile and breeds true from seed. Cytologically it is a tetraploid while all other species are diploid. Two dimensional chromatographic separation of the phenolic compounds and characterization of spots were made on leaf and flower material of the three species concerned. Chromatograms of flower extracts strongly support the belief that A. pavia is one of the parent species. Leaf chromatograms support A. hippocastanum as the other parent species. Identification of the theree major spots of leaves of A. hippocastanum reveal them as quercetin-3-0-rhamnoside, quercetin-3-0-glucoside, and and quercetin-3-0-arabinoside.
2805894|A systematic treatment based on genetic, biochemical, and morphological studies is presented for the 11 recognized taxa of Hulsea. A uniform diploid complement of 38 chromosomes was found in the 37 populations examined, including all species and representing first reports for H. brevifolia, H. californica, and H. mexicana. Thirteen flavonoid compounds, based on the aglycones quercetin, apigenin, cyanidin, and the 4'-O-methyl ether of luteolin, were detected in Hulsea. Patterns of the flavonoid compounds are discussed with respect to the systematic treatment. The results 595 synthetic crosses indicate that Hulsea species are self-imcompatible, relatively cross-compatible, and that their $F_1$ hybrids are relatively fertile. Heterozygosity for one ro two translocations is reported for 11 inter-specific and intersubspecific hybrid combinations.
41406795|Chirita luochengensis, a new species of Gesneriaceae from Guangxi, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is similar to C. linearifolia in leaf shape, but can be distinguished by the apex of leaf blade obtuse to round, corolla purplish, 34.2 cm long, corolla tube 22.5 cm long, 1015 mm diameter at mouth, staminodes 3, disc ca. 2.5 mm in height, pistil 2.53 cm long, stigma obtrapeziform, 4 mm long, and apex shallowly 2-lobed.
2806169|Otto Kuntze (1843-1907) is renowned for his Revisio generum plantarum in which he changed thousands of plant names in accordance with his revision of the 1867 Paris Code of Botanical Nomenclature. His contributions to plant taxonomy, based on his world-wide collecting trips, and his monographs are not as well known. A short biographical sketch and bibliography on Kuntze's natural history and plant taxonomy publications are included with detailed enumeration of localities and dates for trips around the world in 1874-1876 and 1904, to southern U.S.S.R. in 1886, to the Canary Islands and Madeira in 1887-1888, to South America in 1891-1893 and to southern Africa in 1894. Herbaria housing Kuntze specimens are cited. The majority of the type specimens are at the New York Botanical Garden.
2806184|Arenaria cumberlandensis, a new species from the Cumberland Plateau, is described and illustrated. Its relationship to A. groenlandica is discussed.
2806437|Cheilothela Lindb. is recognized as a monotypic genus for C. chloropus (Brid.) Lindb. The South American and New Zealand taxa are considered to be synonymous and placed in the resurrected Chrysoblastella Williams as C. chilensis (Mont.) Reim. Chrysoblastella is segregated from Cheilothela on the basis of numerous sporophytic characters as well as their phytogeography. Cheilothela longirostre Fleisch., from Java, is misplaced in either genus and a new genus, Strombulidens, is erected to accommodate it. Strombulidens is considered most closely related to Wilsoniella on the basis of their unique peristomes.
40980939|During preparation of manuscript for volume 2A of Intermountain Flora, we recognized the need to publish 11 new combinations and three second-step lectotypifications. The new combinations are: Eremogone fendleri var.plateauensis, E. fendleri var.porteri, E. fendleri var. brevicaulis, and E. kingii var.compacta (Caryophyllaceae), Atriplex gardneri var.robusta (Chenopodiaceae), Corydalis caseana var.brachycarpa (Fumariaceae), Claytonia parviflora var.utahensis (Montiaceae), Argemone parva and Eschscholzia californica var. mexicana (Papaveraceae), and Aquilegia micrantha var. loriae and Ranunculus adoneus var. caespitosus (Ranunculaceae). Second-stepdectotypifications are provided for Talinum confertiflorum and Talinum pygmaeum (Montiaceae) and Platystemon termini (Papaveraceae).
4497331| A new species, Brongniartia papyracea (Fabaceae: Faboideae), from southern Jalisco and southwestern Michoacn, is described and illustrated. Its morphological affinities with B. podalyrioides from central Mexico and discussed, and habitat data are given. /// Se describe una especie nueva, Brongniartia papyracea (Fabceae: Faboideae), del sur de Jalisco y suroeste de Michoacn, Mxico. Se discuten sus afinidades morfolgicas con B. podalyrioides del centro de Mxico y se proporcionan datos de su hbitat. 
3218457|A new species of Oryctina (Loranthaceae) from Guyana, O. atrolineata Kuijt is described and illustrated. It possesses one-flowered inflorescences, the flowers being hexamerous and each subtended by a bract and two minute bracteoles. A peculiarity of the style is a distinctive fusiform, subterminal swelling. Oryctina atrolineata is closely related, and similar to, O. myrsinites (Eichler) Kuijt.
2807150|Brachymenium deceptivum, known only from the type specimen, is described from Ethiopia. It is immediately distinguished from all other species of the genus by its complete lack of an exostome.
2806046|Sicyos motozintlensis is described from the vicinity of Motozintla de Mendoza, Chiapas. It shows a strong similarity to S. chiriquensis Hammel & D'Arcy from Panama.
2807139|The following new names and combinations are proposed: Heterotheca barbata (Rydb.) Semple, H. horrida subsp. cinerascens (S. F. Blake) Semple, H. fulcrata var. arizonica Semple, H. fulcrata var. senilis (Wooton & Standley) Semple, H. oregona var. compacta (Keck) Semple, H. oregona var. rudis (Greene) Semple, H. oregona var. scaberrima (A. Gray) Semple, H. pumila (Greene) Semple, H. villosa var. pedunculata (Greene) V. Harms ex Semple, and H. zionensis Semple. The following chromosome numbers are reported for the first time: H. fulcrata var. arizonica, 2n = 9II; H. horrida subsp. cinerascens, 2n = 18II; H. pumila, 2n = 9II, 2n = 18II; H. zionensis, 2n = 9II.
41406773|Stenogrammitis, a new genus of grammitid ferns, is segregated from Lellingeria based on morphological and molecular evidence. It differs from Lellingeria by linear leaves usually less than 5 mm wide, clathrate iridescent rhizome scales that are glabrous except for a single apical cilium, veins unbranched and only one per segment, fertile veins usually with the dark sclerenchyma visible beneath the sporangia, and x= 33. In contrast, Lellingeria has broader laminae, veins pinnate within the segments, and fertile veins not visible beneath the sporangia. Melpomene, which is sister to Stenogrammitis and Lellingeria, differs from those two genera by reddish setae on the leaves and rhizome scales papillate at the apex. Some species of Stenogrammitis are also distinctive by hemidimorphic laminae that have the fertile portion less dissected than the sterile. Stenogrammitis is pantropical and currently comprises 24 species, 12 of which occur in the Neotropics, six in Africa, four in Madagascar, and two on Pacific Islands. New combinations are made for Stenogrammitis aethiopica, S. anamorphosa, S. ascensionensis, S. boivinli, S. delitescens, S. jamesonii, S. hartii, S. hellwigii, S. hildebrandtii, S. limula, S. luetzelburgii, S. myosuroides, S. nutata, S. oosora, S. paucipinnata, S. prionodes, S. pumila, S. ruglessii, S. rupestris, S. saffordii, S. strangeana, S. tomensis, S. subcoriacea, and S. wittigiana. Lectotypifications are made for Grammitis muscosa, Polypodium itatiayense, P. oosorum var. micropecten, P. serrulatum forma major, P. serrulatum forma minor, S. luetzelburgii, S. myosuroides, and S. wittigiana. Illustrations are presented for the diagnostic characters of the genus, as well as a map with the geographical distribution. Stenogrammitis, um gnero novo de samambaias grammitidides,  aqui segregado de Lellingeria com base em dados moleculares em morfolgicos. Difere de Lellingeria pelas frondes lineares, geralmente com menos de 5 mm de largura, escamas do rizoma iridescentes, inteiramente glabras, ou com apenas um cilio apical, nervuras no ramificadas e apenas uma por segmento, nervuras frteis geralmente com o pice esclerenquimatoso, negro, visivel entre os esporngios, e x=33. De maneira oposta, Lellingeria apresenta frondes mais amplas, segmentos com nervuras pinadas, e nervuras frteis no visveis por entre os esporngios. Melpomene, que  o grupo irmo de Stenogrammtis e Lellingeria, difere destes dois gneros por apresentar frondes setosas, e escamas do rizoma papiladas no pice. Algumas species de Stenogrammitis so distintas por apresentar a lmina hemidimorfa, com a poro frtil da lmina menos dividida que a estril. Stenogrammitis apresenta distribuio pantropical e compreende 24 espcies, 12 das quais ocorrem no Neotrpico, seis na frica, quatro em Madagascar, e duas nas Ilhas do Pacfico. Novas combinaes so feitas para Stenogrammitis aethiopica, S. anamorphosa, S. ascensionensis, S. boivinii, S. delitescens, S. jamesonii, S. hartii, S. hellwigii, S. hildebrandtii, S. limula, S. luetzelburgii, S. myosuroides, S. nutata, S. oosora, S. paucipinnata, S. prionodes, S. pumila, S. ruglessii, S. rupestris, S. saffordii, S. strangeana, S. tomensis, S. subcoriacea, and S. wittigiana. Lectotipificaes sofeitas para Grammitis muscosa, Polypodium itatiayense, P. oosorum van micropecten, P. serrulatum forma major, P. serrulatum forma minor, S. luetzelburgii, S. myosuroides, e S. wittigiana. So apresentadas ilustraes para os caracteres diagnsticos do gnero, bem como um mapa com a distribuio geogrfica.
2806533|A new tribe, Deppeeae, in subfamily Rubioideae Verdc. of the Neotropical Rubiaceae is described. It is easily distinguished by the presence of raphides, contorted or modified alternative aestivation of the corolla, numerous small ovules, and placenta attached to the middle of the septum. Three genera are known to be members of the tribe, Deppea, Schenckia, and Omiltemia. A hypothetical phylogenetic tree for the tribe is presented.
2806577|Douglasia Idahoensis a new species endemic to Idaho and Valley counties, Idaho, a close relative of D. montana, is characterized by its succulent foliage, several-flowered umbels, 5-9 lanceolate bracts, short peduncles, and allopatric distribution. Chromosome number is reported as n = 18. Previous taxonomic works have included this species either with D. montana or with D. laevigata.
2807454|As a result of a recent alpha-taxonomic study of the genus Magnolia s. str. in Mexico and Central America, four new species and four new subspecies of Magnolia sect. Theorhodon are proposed, including M. itisiana, M. panamensis, M. tamaulipana, M. sororum subsp. lutea, and M. pacifica, consisting of three sub-species; pacifica, pugana, and tarahumara. Additionally, a new combination, M. guatemalensis subsp. hondurensis, is made, and a new section, M. sect. Splendentes, is erected for the Caribbean species. The results have implications for understanding Magnolia biogeography, and M. tamaulipana has potential for horticulture in temperate zones. Keys to genera, sections, and species, and maps of species distributions are presented. Magnolia grandiflora L. and M. schiedeana Schltdl. are lectotypified.
2805899|Artificial hybridization experiments involving 25 taxa of Ruellia had as one objective to determine the possibility of any genetic relationships between North American temperate species and certain widespread tropical American taxa. The results confirm a close morpho-genetic link between R. caroliniensis-R. pedunculata and the Caribbean species R. geminiflora and between R. nudiflora and the pantropical R. tuberosa. A second objective was to test the genetic basis for the present generic concept of Ruellia. The results of hybridizations among species representatives of six proposed segregate genera were measured by relative seed-set in crosses. The results support the view that the present circumscription of the genus is unnatural and that some taxa presently classified in Ruellia bear little if any morphological or genetic relationship to Ruellia. When the ecotype concept is applied to the genus, natural, closely related species groups can be indentified by hybridization experiments. This approach can lead to an accurate, precise delimitation of Ruellia and may be applicable in other large genera of Acanthaceae.
2806518|Mimosa dalyi is described from eastern Bolivia, figured, and shown to be a carpologically modified member of series Leptostachyae, but also congeneric with Schranckiastrum. The defective protologue of Schranckiastrum is analyzed and its one species transferred to Mimosa as M. insignis (Hassler) Barneby.
2806599|The morphology of the Purpureae Group of North American Aristida is assessed by principal components and statistical analyses. Long considered a complex of about eight species, a mosaic of intergrading phenetic forms is revealed and the complex is reduced to one species with seven varieties. The taxa that are recognized are Aristida purpurea var. purpurea, var. nealleyi (comb. nov.), var. curvifolia (comb. nov.), var. parishii (comb. nov.), var. wrightii (comb. nov.), var. fendleriana, and var. longiseta. A key and synopses for the varieties are provided.
2805851|Descriptions and diagnoses are given for five new Ericaceae-Themistoclesia flexuosa, Disterigma dumontii, Thibaudia croatii, Cavendishia dodsonii, and Orthaea rusbyi.
2805950|Field and herbarium collection studies were used to document the relatively recent range expansion of Heterotheca camporum (Greene) Shinners in the southeastern United States. Prior to 1925 the species was collected only in the Mississippi River valley of Missouri and Illinois and along the Wabash River in Indiana. By 1949 a "weedy" ecotype of the species had colonized parts of Kentucky, Tennessee and Alabama. Post-1950 collections indicate that it had spread through much of eastern Tennessee and reached Mississippi, Virginia and North Carolina. Typical plants may have expanded their range slightly in Indiana and southern Missouri since 1925. Populations from throughout the present range were found to be tetraploid, 2n=36. A morphometric study of herbarium collections and cytovouchers indicated that the "weedy" ecotype is distinguishable from most plants native to the pre-1925 range of distribution. In general the eastern morphotype is taller and more densely glandular than plants from the western part of the range. A new varietal name is proposed: Heterotheca camporum var. glandulissimum Semple.
41406788|Se describe e ilustra a Clethra hirsutovillosa como especie nueva y endmica para la Depresin del Balsas en el estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Este taxn muestra similitud con C. costaricensis, C. galeottiana y C. lanata, pero difiere en la morfologa de la hoja, el tipo de indumento e inflorescencia. Clethra hisutovillosa, a new and endemic species to the Balsas depression in the Guerrero state, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It appears similar to C. costaricensis, C. galeottiana y C. lanata, nevertheless the new entity differs from these in its leaf morphology, and the type of indument and inflorescence.
2805866|The generic status of Calonyction is evaluated, discussed, and rejected. A key to the four species of Ipomoea section Calonyction growing spontaneously in temperate North America is presented together with descriptions, synonyms, and distributions. The origins of the species and their economic value are discussed.
2807606|Four new species are described and discussed: from Bolivia M. (sect. Habbasia ser. Setosae) huanchacae; from SE Brazil M. (sect. Habbasia ser. Pachycarpae) chiliomera and M. (sect. Mimosa) murex; and from Ecuador M. (sect. Mimosa subser. Polycarpae) loxensis. The two Brazilian species are illustrated.
2806250|Acacia guilandinae DC. is recognized as Mimosa guilandinae (DC.) Barneby, endemic to French Guiana and adjoining Amap, Brazil; M. pseudo-obovata is subordinated as a Brazilian var. pseudo-obovata (Taub.) Barneby to Caribbean M. ceratonia L.; and M. laticifera is found synonymous with M. obovata Benth. Diagnostic morphological characters of each taxon are presented in key form.
2806710| Dion edule is distributed through the Sierra Madre Orientral from Veracruz to Nuevo Len and in disjunct stations in Tamaulipas. The most significant variation consists in the reduction of leaflet width from the south northwards. On this basis, two varieties are recognized: D. edule var. edule, characterized by wide leaflets and a distribution in Veracruz, Hidalgo, Queretaro, San Luis Potosi and southern Tamaulipas, and D. edule var. angustifolium, with narrow leaflets and a distribution in central-northern Tamaulipas and Nuevo Len. 
2806650|Stictocardia tiliifolia (Desr.) H. Hall. is accepted as the correct name for the type species of Stictocardia. An earlier name, Ipomoea campanulata L., regarded as a synonym of S. tiliifolia for the last 50 years, is found to be synonymous with Ipomoea illustris (C. B. Clarke) Prain, a species occurring in coastal/tidal riverine habitats of South Asia. Material from interior habitats, called I. campanulata by authors of Indian floras, is believed to represent to represent a variety of true I. campanulata or a closely related species.
2807625|A new species, Ipomoea tabascana, is described from Mexico, and the combination I. batatas var. apiculata is made for plants endemic to Veracruz. Comments on the alliance of I. umbraticola with the section Batatas are given.
3218373| An understanding of the phytogeographic history of a region depends upon an adequate fossil record to reveal migrational histories and the timing and direction(s) of introductions and extinctions, and to augment or circumvent undue reliance on molecular clocks. It further depends upon an accurate phylogeny of the taxa to establish real patterns of geographic affinities (phylogeography), and a relatively detailed geologic history to assess the relative roles of dispersal and vicariance in populating the islands. For the Greater Antilles new information is slowly emerging on the plant fossil record through study of new floras such as the Eocene Saramaguacn palynoflora from Cuba, and more is potentially available from the middle Oligocene San Sebastian megafossil flora of Puerto Rico that has not been revised since the early 1900s. Phylogeographic studies and area cladograms are still meager for plants, but data from various animal groups are providing a context for the general biotic history of the Antilles. Perhaps the area of greatest advance is being made in achieving an adequate plate tectonic model for the Caribbean region. There is now some convergence toward a mobilist model that depicts a Cretaceous volcanic island arc that extended from the Mexico/Chortis block in the north to Ecuador in the south, and gradually moved through the developing portal between North and South America to collide with the Bahamas Platform in the middle Eocene. Throughout this 70-million-year history there was an immensely complex pattern of collision/separation and submergence/emergence that provided opportunity both for vicariance and dispersal in the migration, evolution, and speciation of the flora of the Greater Antilles. 
2806335|Guzmania cabrerae from Colombia is described and illustrated. Specimens of three other species which were rarely or never before collected in Colombia are cited.
2805772|Reevaluation of the generic limits of Malvastrum A. Gray requires the transfer of several species. Among these, M. lacteum (Ait.) Garcke and M. subtriflorum (Lag.) Hemsley of Central America and Colombia form a natural alliance differing from Malvastrum in morphological, cytological, and ecological characteristics and are recognized as a new genus, Kearnemalvastrum. The affinities of Kearnemalvastrum within the tribe Malveae are uncertain. Despite the fact that K. lacteum and K. subtriflorum occupy similar ecological situations, are fully interfertile, and apparently hybridize to some degree in nature, they do maintain their identity and, therefore, are recognized as species.
2806867|The following new species of Melastomataceae from Peru and Bolivia are described: Tibouchina wasshausenii, Miconia rimachii, M. boomii, M. histothrix, M. thysanophylla, and Topobea pascoensis.
40980932|Calycogonium bairdianum, a new species, is here described from the Cordillera Central of the Dominican Republic. It is compared to C. impressum, to which it is likely related. Although Calycogonium is not monophyletic, bairdianum and impressum may be related to other species in the genus that exhibit acarodomatia formed by hairs at the two major vein junctions on the leaf abaxial surface, a likely synapomorphy.Calycogonium bairdianum is distinguished from C.impressum by its relatively glabrous (vs. pubescent) and larger leaves (i. e., usually [2.9-] 4.5-8.1 cm vs. 2.1-3.7 cm long) with veins that are plane to only slightly impressed adaxially (vs. more strongly impressed).
2805509|New data are presented on chromosome numbers for 36 species, two varieties, and two hybrids of Cirsium (Compositae). These include first reports for C. rhothophilum (2n=34), C. andrewsii (2n=32), C. crassicaule (2n=32), C. quercetorum (2n=32, 112), C. pascuarense (2n=32), C. douglasii var. canescens (2n=30, 34), C. hydrophilum (2n=32), C. neomexicanum (2n=30), C. symosum (2n=30,34), C. acantholepis (2n=34), C. radians (2n=34), C. grahami (2n=32), C. nigriceps (2n=36), C. andersonii (2n=32, 64), C. anartiolepis (2n=34), and C. subcoriceum (2n=34). The published data on chromosome numbers of Eurasian and American Cirsium are summarized. In Eurasia, speciation has taken place primarily at the diploid level but is occasionally reinforced by polyploidy. The ancestral base number of 17 has been preserved in almost all species, and there is little evidence that reduction in chromosome number has played a significant role in speciation. In America speciation has proceeded exclusively at the diploid level, but the ancestral genome of 17 chromosomes has been retained in only about half of the species examined. In the remaining species, restructuring of the genome has occurred resulting in a reduction in number from 17 to 9 in extreme cases. Polyploidy, when seen, is of no significance. It is suggested that all species with greatly reduced numbers may represent products of a single reduction series.
2806730|Lindenia radicans is found to be conspecific with Habroneuron mexicanum: the combination H. radicans is made. Monotypic and known from only two Oaxacan collections, Habroneuron exhibits an unusual leaf venation, which is described and illustrated. A relationship with the tribe Rondeletieae is suggested.
30218810|Based on new information on floral structures, seedling, fruit, seed, root, and leaflet characters, Phaseolus dasycarpus is re-described and illustrated. Its chromosome number was determined as 2n= 22, with metacentric and submetacentric chromosomes, and karyotype formula of 9m+2sm. Previous phylogenetic analyses of ITS and trnK sequence data, and those obtained in the present study, show P dasycarpus to be aligned within section Pedicellati. /// Con nueva informacin de estructuras florales, plntulas, frutos, semillas, raz y fololos, se redescribe e ilustra a Phaseolus dasycarpus. Se determina el nmero cromosmico 2n= 22, con cromosomas metacntricos y submetacntricos y frmula cariotpica= 9m+2sm. Anlisis filogenticos previos con secuencias de ITS y trnK y los resultados obtenidos en el presente estudio, establecen a P dasycarpus en la seccin Pedicellati.
3218455| Juncus effusus s. str. has two native representatives on the coast of western North America. A new combination is provided for Juncus effusus subsp. pacificus, ranging from California to British Columbia. Juncus effusus subsp. austrocalifornicus is newly described from southernmost California, Arizona, and Baja California, Mxico. It differs from subsp. pacificus by its pale sheaths, with less thickened and less overlapping margins, and its disjunct distribution. A key is provided for the subspecies of J. effusus in North America. 
2806395|The name Calathea rotundifolia Koern. is a later homonym of C. rotundifolia Poeppig & Endl. and is replaced by the new combination C. orbifolia (Linden) Kennedy. Calathea fasciata is recognized as a distinct species. Both species are closely related to C. vaginata and clearly belong in Calathea series Rhizanthae rather than series Nudiscapae where placed by Schumann.
2666520|A revised checklist of the vascular plants of Navassa Island, a U.S. possession in the Caribbean, is presented. This is the first update since the original list was published by Ekman in 1929. A recent expedition to the island resulted in the addition of 35 taxa. Eight pteridophytes and 139 angiosperms are recorded from the island.
2807393|Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to examine achene epidermal features of nine Carex species within sections Vesicariae and Lupulinae. Two major epidermal features are recognized in this study: the epidermal layers with one or two primary silicon bodies in each cell and the absence of any primary silicon body. Comparative data of achene morpology using SEM, and evidence compiled from previous investigations, support the placement of Carex retrorsa within section Vesicarieae.
2806674|Field research and observation of the breeding system of the salvadoran extension of the Echeandia macrocarpa complex indicate an entirely mellittophilous syndrome, with Bombus ephippiatus Say workers as the primary pollen vectors. Foraging behavior coupled with the floral morphology/phenology of the host plant suggests a trend towards obligatory out-crossing. The foraging behavior of B. ephippiatus workers on the host plant and on flowers of co-blooming species is reported to elucidate the dynamic processes that determine the present co-evolutionary status of E. macrocarpa and its chief pollinator.
2805450|Several statistical techniques of numerical taxonomy were studied by using 21 species of Cucurbita as models. Data were taken on 93 plant characters for 24 operational taxonomic units (OTU's) Three similarity coefficients, Q-correlation, distance and divergence, were used to compute phenetic similarities among the 21 OTU's. The results are summarized in the form of eight phenograms using both unweighted and weighted pair-group methods of clustering. The results obtained from the various statistical techniques were compared with cross-compatibility ratings. The distance and divergence coefficients and their respective phenogram values were more highly correlated with the cross-compatibility ratings than were the Q-correlation coefficients and their phenogram values. However, from a subjective viewpoint, the phenograms derived from Q-correlation coefficients were in closer general agreement with a combination of biological factors including cross compatibility, geographical distribution, and ecological adaption than were phenograms derived from distance or divergence coefficients.
2806268|Penstemon immanifestus, a new species from the Great Basin, is described and illustrated, and its distribution is mapped. Its relationship to other species of subgenus Penstemon, sect. Coerulei, is discussed.
30218782|Ampelozizyphus guaquirensis, native to the central portion of the Coastal Cordillera of Venezuela, is newly described and illustrated. It differs from the only other species in the genus, A. amazonicus, in its arborescent (vs. lianoid) habit, subsessile (vs. pedunculate) inflorescence, deciduous (vs. persistent) calyx lobes in fruit, and presence (vs. absence) of nectaries at the base of the leaf blades. Ampelozizyphus is now a prime example of the disjunct distribution of closely related species between Amazonia and the Coastal Cordillera of Venezuela. /// Se describe e ilustra Ampelozizyphus guaquirensis, una especie nativa de la zona central de la Cordillera de la Costa de Venezuela. Se distingue de la nica otra especie en el gnero, A. amazonicus, por su hbito arborescente (vs. trepador), su inflorescencia subsesil ( vs. pedunculada), los lbulos del caliz decduos (vs. persistentes) en fruto, y la presencia (vs. ausencia) de nectarios en la base de las lminas foliares; estos caracteres ahora amplian el concepto morfolgico del gnero. Ampelozizyphus se convierte as en un ejemplo notable de la distribucin disyunta de especies afines entre Amazona y la Cordillera de la Costa de Venezuela.
30219392|Calliandra dolichopoda and C. cualensis, two species endemic to Guerrero and Jalisco, Mexico, respectively, are described and illustrated. Both species appear to be closely related to C. hirsuta. /// Se describen e ilustran Calliandra dolichopoda y C. cualensis, dos especies endmicas de Guerrero y Jalisco, Mxico, respectivamente. Ambas especies parecen estar relacionadas con C. hirsuta.
2805679|Seven species of the genus Tripsacum, one with a well marked subspecies, are indigenous to Mexico and Guatemala. Two diploids, T. zopilotense and T. maizar, are restricted to western and southwestern Mexico. The typical diploid form of a third species, T. latifolium, occurs in south central and eastern Guatemala; atypical tetraploid forms of this species are found in western Mexico. Four tetraploids, T. dactyloides, T. dactyloides ssp. hispidum, T. lanceolatum, and T. pilosum, have ranges extending from northwestern Mexico southeastward into Guatemala. The seventh species is the highly sterile tetraploid, T. laxum, of doubtful occurrence in the wild. It is readily propagated vegetatively and has been widely distributed in Latin America and the West Indies as a forage plant. Field studies of the range of variation in 80 Mexican and Guatemalan populations included an evaluation of 16 definitives morphological characteristics from an average of approximately six individuals of each population. Seventy-three of the 80 populations were allopatric, and of these, 50 were classed as typical, 13 as atypical, and ten as intermediates. Thirty-nine of the 50 populations classed as typical were tetraploid, and 11 were diploid. Of the 23 atypical and intermediate populations, 17 were tetraploid and six were diploid. Fifty-eight tetraploid populations, which included typical, atypical, and intermediate forms of T. dactyloides, T. dactyloides ssp. hispidum, T. lanceolatum, T. pilosum, and T. latifolium, comprised and inclusive intergrading series having different combinations of characteristics distinguishing the two very dissimilar diploids, T. mizar and T. zopilotense. This series was interpreted as support for the hypothesis of Randolph & Hernandez (1950), that the tetraploid populations originated as alloploid derivatives of these or closely related diploid species. The occurrence in some of the tetraploid populations of characteristics not seen in either of the putative parental species was noted, and the possibility that other taxa also might have been involved in their origin is under investigation. In addition to the 73 allopatric populations included in this survey there were seven sympatric and mixed associations of diploid and tetraploid taxa. Among these were hybrids with various combinations of the associated populations. These hybrids, effectively obscured differences between taxa, thus creating a syngameon complex from which genetic recombinants were observed to have spread into recently disturbed habitats of neighboring areas. From such direct evidence, and the existing interrelationships among allopatric and sympatric populations, it was concluded that the origin of the Mexican and Guatemalan tetraploid Tripsacum species and various atypical and intermediate variants, hasinvolved, and is continuing to involve, alloploid recombinants of diploid species and syngameon complexes, of which those encountered in this survey are examples.
2806528|Chromosome number determinations were made from 407 wild or transplanted individuals and seedlings representing 65 taxa and hybrids in Euthamia and Solidago. The following are first reports: Euthamia remota, 2n = 9II; Solidago leavenworthii, 2n = 54; S. mollis, 2n = 36; S. mollis var. angustata, 2n = 36; S. rigida var. glabrata, 2n = 9II; S. sempervirens var. azorica, 2n = 9II; and S. sparsiflora, 2n = 54. Most species have been sampled only a few times or are consistently of one cytotype. Sufficient counts have been made to indicate some general patterns of cytotype distribution in the following species complexes: S. gigantea, S. canadensis, S. flexicaulis, S. rugosa, and S. uliginosa.
3218416| Sicyos lirae is described as a new species from Chiapas, Mexico, and Guatemala. It grows in zones with primary or, secondary montane rain forest at elevations between 1400 and 3800 meters. In Guatemala the species is commonly called "gisquil de ratn." It is similar to Sicyos galeottii Cogn., from which it differs in blade consistency, shape of the stigma lobes, and several important ovary and fruit characters. 
2806734|A description and illustrations are provided for Selaginella carnerosana, a new species in subgenus Selaginella section Tetragonastachys series Eremophilae from southern Coahuila, Mexico.
2807275|Three new combinations include Pediomelum pariense, P. megalanthum var. retrorsum, and P. megalanthum var. epipsilum.
2806953|Two new species of the orchid subtribe Spiranthinae are described-Sauroglossum dromadum and S. organense. Illustrations of the new entities are provided and their systematic positions are briefly discussed.
2806761|Three new Mexican species of Vernonia, V. macphersonii, V. pugana and tequilana, are described.
2806454|Three new species from Brazil, Hindsia irwinii, Manettia irwinii, and Mitracarpus pusillus, are described. A new section, Brevicalyx, is erected for Hindsia irwinii, and another new section, Irwinianthus, for Manettia irwinii.
2806909|A new species of Lobelia (Campanulaceae: Lobelioideae) is described from Isla de Mona, a Caribbean island not previously known to harbor the genus. The small woody rosette-plants were collected in 1988 and 1992 at the northeastern corner of the island, where they grew from crevices in the vertical limestone cliffs, approximately 60 m above the sea. The new species, Lobelia vivaldii, belongs to sect. Tylomium, a group of approximately 36 suffruticose and woody species endemic to the Caribbean basin. Within that section, it is most similar to and apparently derived from L. cirsiifolia, a less woody rain forest species found at higher elevations on several islands in the Lesser Antilles.
2805606|A new genus, Goodmania, is described for the species currently known as Oxytheca luteola Parry of central and southern California. A member of Polygonaceae, subfamily Eriogonoideae, Goodmania is an isolated genus, distinct from Eriogonum by the awned bracts, and from Oxytheca by its involucral bracts not forming a distinct tube, yellow flowers, non-glandular pubescence, and small, paired cauline leaves. Goodmania is seemingly related to the Death Valley endemic, Gilmania, but differs in having a whorl of five involucral bracts subtending the cluster of short-predicellate flowers.
2807462|A large-leaved, apparently dioecious species of Ixocactus, I. macrophyllus, is described from Brazil.
2806659|This is a compilation of English terms having to do with hairs and hairy surfaces of plants. The glossary is divided into two sections. Part I includes terms for types and attributes of individual hair kinds and hair clusters. Part II deals with kinds and characteristics of induments.
2666554|Quinolizidine alkaloids were surveyed in 22 plant samples, representing nine Ormosia species and up to five different plant parts per species, using combined gas chromatography and mass spectroscopy. The detected alkaloids were classified into 40 structural types. There was a remarkable degree of dissimilarity of alkaloid-type profiles between any two plant samples, including those obtained from the same species and even from a single tree. The similarity of alkaloid-type profiles among the studied samples varied between 0% and 79% (Jaccard similarity coefficient). Of chemotaxonomic interest was the finding of acosmine in O. isthmensis, which previously had been reported only from the related genus Acosmium. Furthermore, the alkaloid-type profile of O. panamensis seeds was distinct from that of all other samples, supporting the hypothesis that this species is only distantly related to the other Latin American Ormosia species.
2807033| The combination Ligaria teretiflora (Rizzini) Kuijt is proposed, based on Psittacanthus teretiflorus Rizzini, adding a second species to the genus. Ligaria teretiflora differs from L. cuneifolia (Ruiz & Pavn) Van Tieghem in having articulated pedicels and obovate leaves which lack a necrotic apex. 
2807132|Agalinis bandeirensis is a Brazilian species distinguished by linear bracts, short pedicels, and villous stamens. Agalinis ramulifera, from southern Brazil, is distinguished by many, short, leafy branches and small flowers. Agalinis linarioides subsp. rojasi, from Paraguay, is distinguished by paniculate inflorescences, short calyx lobes, and broad corollas. Gerardia bangii, G. digitalis, and G. meyeniana are recognized as species of Agalinis and appropriate transfers are made.
2806959|The largely tropical Podostemaceae occur in a unique habitat for angiosperms; attached to rocks in river rapids and waterfalls. Little taxonomic work has been published on New World Podostemaceae since Van Royen's monograph in the early 1950s. A paucity of complete herbarium material severely limits taxonomic study and precludes addressing a range of enigmatic ecological and evolutionary issues that relate to the family. The size, high level of endemism, and life history of the family are discussed. The distribution of two species in Mexico are used to illustrate the need for concerted collecting efforts. Recommendations for collection strategies are made that reflect the unusual habitat and life history of these plants.
2807515| An account of the history of collecting in the Mato Grosso is followed by a discussion of the current views on the nature of the vegetation along the transition from Amazonian forest to cerrado. The purpose of the 1985 Projeto Flora Amaznica expedition was to sample the vegetation in the transition region in northern Mato Grosso. In order to characterize the vegetation at the various localities, the identified collections were assigned to one of five broad distributional categories: Planaltine, Transitional, Amazonian, Widespread, or Other. In most cases, as expected, the collecting sites in the north and the west were characterized by Amazonian forest species while those in the south and east comprised mainly cerrado elements. Our collections show that the transition zone is a complex mosaic of Amazonian forest and cerrado formations. 
2807415|Flourensia cajabambensis, a new species from northern Peru, is described and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. A key to the Peruvian species of Flourensia is presented.
2807583|Trattinnickia is closely related to Dacryodes and is transferred to the tribe Canarieae. Additional characters are proposed to supplement the weak characters that traditionally have been used to separate Crepidospermum and Tetragastris from Protium. The assumed "intermediate" genus Paraprotium is shown to be an unnatural assemblage and is here merged with Protium. This revised concept of generic limits in the Neotropical Protieae and Canarieae leads to the following new combinations: Tetragastris occhionii (Rizzini) Daly, Protium pilosum (Cuatrec.) Daly, Protium nitidifolium (Cuatrec.) Daly, Protium vestitum (Cuatrec.) Daly, and Dacryodes cuspidata (Cuatrec.) Daly. A key to the Neotropical genera of Burseraceae is provided.
40648245|Alcantarea martinellii is described and illustrated as a new species endemic to Serra dos rgos, Petrpolis, Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil. The presence of a simple and erect inflorescence concomitant with a conspicuous water impounding rosette is an unreported combination of characters for Alcantarea. This new lithophytic taxon is unique, with no obvious close relative, but it is similar to A. benzingii, A. farneyi, and A. hatschbachii, which also have unbranched inflorescences. Alcantarea martinellii  descrita e ilustrada como urna nova espcie de distribuiao endmica, restrita  Serra dos rgos, Petrpolis, estado do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. Este novo txon litoftico apresenta um posicionamento singular, sem ser conhecida a especie  quai seria mais prximo. A presena de urna inflorescncia simples e ereta, juntamente com urna roseta desenvolvida que acumula gua, constituem urna combinao de caracteres at ento no registrada para o gnero. O novo txon pode ser relacionado  A. benzingii, A. farneyi e  A. hatschbachii, que tambm apresentam inflorescncias simples.
2805535|Various hybrid combinations of 18 speci and varieties of Aquilegia were produced, and several cross-pollinations were made which failed to produce hybrids. Pollen fertility of hybrids was generally high, wiht a total mean of approximately 50%, but highly variable among hybrid combinations and consistently lower than that of parental species. With the exception of frequent occurrence of giant pollen grains and rare synaptic failure of one or two homologous pairs, meiotic behavior in hybrid pollen mother cells appeared to be completely regular. Representatives of the Vulgaris Complex were observed to be intermediate genetically and morphologically leading to the interpretation of ancestral status among extant species. The greatest genetic diversity within the genus was shown to exist between A. ecalcarata and members of the Caerulea Complex.
4098959|Two new species of Cyathea are described, C. obnoxia and C. plicata, from the vicinity of Podocarpus National Park in the Provinces Loja and Zamora-Chinchipe, Ecuador.
2805825|A workshop with 28 participants was convened at the Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, from 30 May to 1 June 1974 to consider the trends, priorities, and needs in systematic and evolutionary biology. The group represented a broad spectrum of interest, and presents this summary report in anticipation of stimulating responses from many colleagues. Major extrinsic factors affecting the field are 1) its vast and virtually unmanageable data base; and 2) the imminent destruction of whole ecosystems, especially the lowland tropics, with the consequent loss of information. The nature and control of genetic variation in natural populations and the control of structure in complex ecosystems were among the important intellectual problems identified. Five major needs were identified as follows: 1) additional substantial resources for studies in the tropics, especially those of the New World; 2) additional laboratories to attack the nature and control of genetic variation in natural populations at a biochemical level; 3) a taxon-based data bank for some portion of the biota of the United States by 1980 as a stage in the development of a worldwide data bank; 4) four kinds of chemosystematics centers with an initial capital outlay of about $1 million and an annual operating budget of about $300,000; and 5) set an apparatus for monitoring and responding to requirements for systematic studies in the solution of human problems in the health sciences, the production of food, and similar areas. The last point would include, but not be limited to, the establishment of an Institute for Applied Systematics with appropriate funding and staffing.
2807264|Aristolochia fosteri is a new species with unusual branched trichomes collected in Pasco near Oxapampa. Aristolochia hutchisonii is a prostrate species found in Amazonas and Cajamarca that is related to A. weberbaueri. Aristolochia barbouri is a narrow-leaved, herbaceous liana from Madre de Dios.
2805081|Two types of foliar trichomes, both T-shaped with a uniseriate stalk and a single transverse cell, are used to document natural hybridization between Vernonia lindheimeri Engelm. & Gray and V. interior Small in central Texas. The putative hybrid, known as V. guadalupensis Heller, has the same type of foliar trichomes but their stalks are neither as long as those of V. interior nor as short as those of V. lindheimeri. The transverse cells of the more conspicuous trichome type are also of intermediate size.
2806690|Chamaecrista (sect. Apoucouita) aspidiifolia Irwin & Barneby from Bahia, Ch. (sect. Absus) glischrodes Irwin & Barneby from Minas Gerais and Ch. (sect. Absus) didyma Irwin & Barneby from Brazilian Amazonia are described, figured, and discussed in terms of affinity. Several incidental new combinations in Chamaecrista are proposed.
4497361|Located approximately 4000 km from the nearest continent, the Hawaiian Islands comprise the most isolated archipelago on Earth. This isolation has resulted in a unique flora that includes nearly 200 native ferns and lycophytes, 77% of which are endemic to the islands. Because the Hawaiian Islands are volcanic in origin, all abiotically dispersed organisms must have arrived there via the wind or the water. Fern spores are most likely dispersed through the air, and thus patterns of air movement have undoubtedly played a significant role in determining the geographic origins of the ancestors of the Hawaiian ferns. We have identified four possible climate-based or weather-based spore dispersal hypotheses that could have resulted in the movement of ancestral spores to the Hawaiian Islands: (1) the northern subtropical jetstream, moving spores from Indo-Pacific regions; (2) the trade winds, dispersing spores from Central and North America; (3) storms carrying spores from southern Mexico and/or Central America; and (4) a dispersal mechanism carrying spores from the South Pacific across the equator resulting from the combined influence of a seasonal southern shift of the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ), Hadley Cell air movement, and the trade winds. Utilizing recently published molecular phylogenetic studies of three fern genera (Dryopteris, Polystichum, and Hymenophyllum) and new analyses of three additional genera (Adenophorus, Grammitis, and Lellingeria), each of which is represented in the Hawaiian Islands by at least one endemic lineage, we reviewed the biogeographical implications for the Hawaiian taxa in light of the possible common dispersal patterns and pathways. We hypothesize that three of the five endemic Dryopteris lineages, both of the endemic Polystichum lineages, at least one endemic Hymenophyllum lineage in the Hawaiian Islands, and, perhaps, one endemic Grammitis lineage resulted from ancestral spores of each lineage dispersing to the Hawaiian Islands via the northern subtropical jetstream. Adenophorus is sister to a mostly neotropical clade, therefore, it is likely that the ancestor of the Hawaiian clade dispersed to the Hawaiian Islands via the trade winds or a storm system. The ancestor of the endemic Lellingeria lineage may have dispersed to the Hawaiian Islands from the neotropics via the trade winds or a storm system, or from the South Pacific across the equator through the combination of a seasonal southern shift of the ITCZ, Hadley Cells, and the trade winds.
2805607| Diagnoses and descriptions are given for C. (sect. Prososperma) apsidoneura from the Bolivian Chaco, which is placed in ser. Torae Benth. near C. mucronifera Mart., and for C. (sect. Chamaesenna) cachimbonsis from the northern limit of the Brazilian Planalto in Par, which is related to C. reniformis G. Don of a series as yet undescribed. 
2806126|Dalechampia magnistipulata is described from Veracruz, Mexico. Belonging to sect. Scandentes, it has passed as D. tiliifolia Lam., but is not closely related to that or to any other Meso-americn species. Its nearest affinity may be with South American species such as D. stipulacea and D. variifolia.
2805817|The genus Aspasia (Orchidaceae: Oncidieae) consists of five species of epiphytic orchids of Central and South America. The genus is compared with closely related of the tribe Oncidieae. Aspasia epidendroides is found in Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and western Panama. Aspasia principissa is found in central and eastern Panama and adjacent Colombia. Aspasia psittacina is endemic to western Ecuador. Aspasia variegata is found in Colombia, Venezuela, Trinidad, Guyana, Surinam, and Brazil. Aspasia lunata is known only from Brazil.
2806053|The nomenclatural history, morphology, ecology and taxonomy of the subgenus is reviewed and its relationships to other subgenera discussed. Keys, distribution maps and synonymies for each taxon are provided. Five species are recognized of which one, Cybianthus deltatus, is described as new, illustrated and discussed. One new combination, Cybianthus fulvopulverulentus subsp. magnoliifolius (Mez) Pipoly, is made. Cybianthus spicatus is a polymorphic ochlospecies, with four ecotypic growth forms. Five binomials are lectotypified.
2666561|Bactris neomilitaris, a new species from Central America, is described and illustrated. It is compared to Bactris militaris, in which it was formerly included.
2806800|Thirty-seven combinations are made for Crocicreas in anticipation of their uses in other publications.
4497350| Studies of type material from Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay together with observations of achenes using scanning electron microscopy permit us to synonymize Bulbostylis aphylla with B. brevifolia, B. closii and B. scabra fm. evolutior with B. major, and B. spectabilis with B. amambayensis. For the first time, B. major is recorded for Bolivia and B. brevifolia for Uruguay. The known distributions of B. amambayensis, B. brevifolia, and B. major are expanded. /// El anlisis morfolgico de ejemplares tipo, abundante material de Argentina, Brasil, Paraguay y Uruguay, as como observaciones de los frutos con microscopio electrnico de barrido, nos permiti sinonimizar Bulbostylis aphylla con B. brevifolia, B. closii y B. scabra f. evolutior con B. major y B. spectabilis con B. amambayensis. Por otra parte se cita por primera vez a B. major para la flora de Bolivia y a B. brevifolia para Uruguay. Se amplia el rea de distribucin de B. amambayensis, B. brevifolia y B. major 
2805545|In the most recent monograph of the genus in North America, this species group was treated as four species (Vernonia fasciculata, V. corymbosa, V. marginata, and V. tenuifolia). Information from field studies, comparative morphology, biochemical systematics, transplant studies, hybridization experiments, and comparative distribution is presented and used to establish a new classification. Vernonia tenuifolia is considered to be a synonym of V. marginata. Vernonia corymbosa is treated as a subspecies of V. fasciculata. Keys, descriptions, synonymies, and distribution maps are provided. It is suggested that two taxa be referred to as hybrids, V. Xreverchonii Gleason (pro sp.) and V. Xvulturina Shinners (pro sp.).
2807353|Prestoea darienensis Henderson is described and illustrated. A discussion is given of morphological groupings within the genus, and the place of the new species.
2806505|The new genus and species Tovarochloa peruviana are described and illustrated. Two collections are known from above 4000 m in the Peruvian Andes. The genus is assigned to the tribe Agrostideae but is not considered to be close to any priviously described genera. A description of the leaf anatomy is provided.
2806703|The Eocene sediments of southern Maryland and adjacent Virginia have yielded multilocular fruits assignable to the extinct genera Wetherellia Bowerbank and Palaeowetherellia Chandler. This is the first report of their co-occurrence in one deposit. Wetherellia has previously been reported from the Eocene of southern England and West Germany (two species), while Palaeowetherellia has been reported from the Eocene and possibly latest Cretaceous of Egypt (one species). A Palaeowetherellia-like fruit has been reported from the Eocene of southeastern North America. Wetherellia marylandica comb. nov. and Palaeowetherellia species are described; new information is provided for the previously established species Wetherellia variabilis and W. dixonii. The familial assignment of both genera is reviewed. Palaeowetherellia is most similar to fruits of the tribe Hippomaneae of the Euphorbiaceae, while wetherellia finds counterparts in the Euphorbiaceae and the Meliaceae. While the exact affinities of Wetherellia are difficult to resolve through comparison to modern fruits, the similarity of Wetherellia and Palaeowetherellia might suggest that the former is more likely euphorbiaceous than meliaceous. The discovery of these New World members of both genera reinforces the importance of floristic exchange across the North Atlantic in earliest Tertiary time.
4099011| The new Bolivian endemic, Capparis coimbrana, was first collected by the 22-year-old Edward Palmer while a member of the U.S. Navy's "Exploration of the River La Plata" expedition, supervised under Captain T. J. Page from 1853-1856. Since the plant specimen lacks a specific geographic location, it was necessary to interpret carefully the cryptic, penciled notes that accompany it, and to correlate these with the published itinerary of the expedition's sailing vessel, the Water Witch. This historical research revealed that the plant must have been collected on 2 Dec 1853 at Corumb, Matto Grosso, Brazil, which was then a tiny village just across the Ro Paraguay from Puerto Surez, Bolivia. This site is at the very edge of the species' current range. 
2807662|During a revision of the genus Rustia, the two pendulous-flowered taxa, R. secundiflora and R. splendens, are here lectotypified and found to be synonymous. Examination of specimens identified as R. secundiflora have revealed an additional pendulous-flowered species: R. schunkeana. A key to the four species of Rustia with pendulous flowers is provided.
2807820|Cyanea kuhihewa (Campanulaceae: Lobelioideae) is described from Kaua'i in the Hawaiian Islands and assigned to sect. Hirtellae. Because of its linear leaves, it was first identified as C. linearifolia, a member of sect. Delisseoideae presumed extinct. However, the new species differs by its flat or slightly revolute (vs. strongly revolute) leaf margins, fewer-flowered pubescent inflorescences with shorter peduncles and bracts longer than wide (vs. wider than long), and larger pubescent flowers.
2807713|Two new species of Cissus are described and illustrated: Cissus boliviana, a simple-leaved species from Bolivian forests, and C. bracteosa, a speceis with an unusual indumentum from rain forests of Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru.
40792895|A new species of Euphorbiaceae, Crotn borbensis, is described and illustrated from western Amazonian Brazil. It shares features similar to another white sand Amazonian species, dissectistipulatus, but differs in having leaves with a serrulate-glandulose margin, no evident stipules, staminate flowers with six stamens and glabrous pedicels, pistillate flowers with few, shortly stipitate glands on the calyx, and a glabrous ovary. Crotn borbensis is tentatively placed in section Barhamia. Uma nova especie de Euphorbiaceae da Amazonia ocidental brasileira, C. borbensis,  descrita e ilustrada. Essa especie  semelhante a C. dissectistipulatus, mas dla se diferencia por apresentar folhas com margem serrilhado-glandulosa, estpulas ausentes; flor estaminada com pedicelo glabro e seis estmes; flor pistilada com os lobos do clice com poucas glndulas curto-estipitadas e ovario glabro. Como tentativa, Crotn borbensis  posicionado na seao Barhamia.
2666631|After detailed morphological comparison, the genera Mazaea (incl. Neomazaea) and Ariadne are considered to be synonymous, for which a new combination, M. shaferi, is provided. Acunaeanthus is maintained as a separate monotypic genus. Phyllomelia, previously treated as genus incertae sedis, is here transferred to the Rondeletieae, and believed to be closely related to Mazaea. The systematic position of Eosanthe remains dubious until fertile collections become available. Complete descriptions, synonymies, typifications, and distributions on Mazaea, Acunaeanthus, Phyllomelia, and Eosanthe are presented, and Mazaea and Phyllomelia are illustrated.
2807177|The Friesner Herbarium (But) of Butler University is a collection of over 100,000 specimens built from the personal herbarium of Ray C. Friesner. He and other botanists at Butler amassed one of the largest and most complete collections of Indiana plants. Active exchange from the 1920's through the 1940's increased the holdings of plants from other states. Although the collection does not contain many type specimens, it is rich in vouchers from floristic and ecological studies conducted in the first half of the 20th century and published in the scientific journal, Butler University Botanical Studies.
2807100|A new genus, Stanmarkia, is described from the volcanic highlands of western Guatemala and adjacent Chiapas, Mexico to include S. medialis, comb. nov. and S. spectabilis, sp. nov. Among the Melastomataceae, Stanmarkia is distinguished by its 5-merous flowers, subequal stamens that lack prominently developed appendages or prolonged connectives, terete hypanthia, and clavate-cuneate seeds that have an enlarged excurrent arilloid raphe and a tuberculate seed coat. A gametic chromosome count of n = 40 is reported here for S. spectabilis. This count, which is clearly of polyploid origin, represents a new definitive number for the family. An emphasis on seed characters suggests placement of Stanmarkia in the Sonerileae which is here interpreted in a broad sense to include all genera previously assigned to the New World Bertolonieae and the Old World Oxysporeae. A consideration of other characters such as configuration of the ovary apex, capsule morphology, and androecial details also provides evidence for placement of Stanmarkia in the Merianieae.
2806622|Four new species and one new variety of Rubiaceae from French Guiana are described: Psychotria alloantha, P. cypellantha, P. squamelligera. P. viridibractea, and Sipanea ovalifolia var. villosissima.
2806328|Series Flexuosae consists of eight closely related species. The taxa are collectively unique in their morphology and share similar flavonoid compounds. They range from south-central Brazil southwest into Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay and Argentina. The eight species are keyed, described and mapped and synonymies are provided.
2806483|Three new dwarf mistletoes are described: Arceuthobium globosum subsp. grandicaule (Mexico and Guatemala), A. aureum subsp. aureum (Guatemala) and A. aureum subsp. petersonii (Chiapas, Mexico). Arceuthobium guatemalense is recorded for the first time in Mexico. Significant range extensions are recorded for A. abietis-religiosae, A. divaricatum, A. gillii subsp. nigrum, and A. rumbrum. New hosts are reported for several taxa. Nineteen members of the genus are presently known from Mexico, and three (possibly four) from Guatemala. Chromosome counts are reported for the first time for 3 taxa.
2806751|An investigation of flavonoid compounds, pollen grains, and seed coats of the four taxa of the genus Sedum section Ternata, S. nevii, S. glaucophyllum, S. pulchellum, and S. ternatum, was undertaken to resolve the taxonomic status of S. glaucophyllum. Flavonoid compounds were tentatively identified utilizing UV spectroscopy and shift reagents. Both flavones and flavonols, as apigenin, luteolin, quercetin, and kaempferol aglycones and glycosides, were detected. Pollen grains and seed coast were viewed and photographed with the aid of a scanning electron microscope. Pollen grains of all four taxa were uniformly tricolporate; interspecific variation was negligible. Seed coats of all four taxa differed significantly with respect to ornamentation. Phytochemical and morphological data both support the recognition of S. glaucophyllum as a species distinct from S. nevii.
2666515|A new species, Adiantum discolor Prado (Pteridaceae), known only from the wet forests of eastern coastal Brazil, in Bahia, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished principally by its 2-pinnate fronds with a long stipe, 2 or 3 pairs of lateral pinnae, discolorous laminae, and glabrous indusia.
2806382|An observation of a snake catching a bat visiting a capitulum of the chiropterophilous tree Parkia nitida is described. The implications of predator avoidance on the behavior of pollinators and hence on cross-pollination are discussed. Fear of predation may be the reason why some bats make only brief visits to Parkia capitula.
2666495|This work provides a key, illustrations, descriptions, and distribution maps for the 15 species of neotropical Lomariopsis. In the Neotropics, the genus occurs in southern Florida, the Antilles, and Mexico to Bolivia and southern Brazil. Two groups of species can be recognized on the basis of heteroblastic leaf series: one (the "sorbifolia group") whose leaves become pinnate when 1-2 cm long, and another (the "japurensis group") whose leaves become pinnate when 15-40 cm long. Three species in the Antilles are unusual because the rachis apex aborts and the distalmost lateral pinna assumes the terminal position.
2807496|The genus Jaltomata (including Hebecladus) is described. Five Hebecladus species are transferred to Jaltomata. Jaltomata viridiflora is widespread, from western Venezuela through Ecuador; J. bicolor and J. propinqua occur in central Peru; J. umbellata of the Loma Formation of the Department Lima, Peru is rare; J. ventricosa is known only from the vicinity of La Libertad, Otuzco, Peru. All are montane except for J. umbellata. Included are short descriptions and illustrations.
3218434|Annona prevostiae, a new species from the northeastern margin of the Guayana Shield, is described and illustrated.
2805437|Rigidella and the four species contained therein are defined primarily on characters related to, and a direct consequence of, adaptation to hummingbird pollination. The genus is probably derived from either the "multiflora" complex in Tigridia subgenus Hydrotaenia or is an evolutionary line parallel to Tigridia. Illustrations, distribution maps, and a key to the species are included. The rediscovery of Rigidella flammea Lindl. is reported, and a new species, R. inusitata, is described.
2807297|Recent botanical exploration in Panama and northwestern South America allows a more complete account of Phragmotheca than was previously possible. Of the six taxa now recognized, Phragmotheca mammosa subspp. mammosa and amazonica, and P. ecuadorensis are newly described and illustrated here. A key to the species, descriptions of all taxa, comments on habitat and phenology, and photographs of staminal thecae and leaf trichomes are provided. Seedlings of "durian morphology," previously known in the family only from paleotropical members, are reported from P. mammosa.
3218465|A list is provided of all 358 taxa of Erythroxylum described from the Neotropics through the year 2000, including type specimen citations, probable synonymy, geographic distribution, and designation of 41 new lectotypes and one new neotype. The list includes 187 accepted species, eight accepted varieties, 27 infraspecific names of uncertain status, and 136 synonyms. A searchable specimen database and type image archive may be accessed at <www.fieldmuseum.org/research_collections/database.htm>.
2805993|Blepharidachne is a disjunct American genus with four species: B. kingii (S. Wats.) Hackel (Great Basin of western U.S.A.) and B. bigelovii (S. Wats.) Hackel (Coahuila, Mexico and Texas, U.S.A.) in North America: B. benthamiana (Hackel) A. S. Hitchc. and B. hitchcockii Lahitte, both in central and western Argentina. Blepharidachne kingii is the only species with perfect flowers, the other three being monoecious as an result of a series of reductive processes. After a discussion of these morphological peculiarities, heretofore overlooked, the article is completed with a brief taxonomic synopsis of the genus.
2806203|Leaves from herbarium specimens of 505 species and varieties of North American Astragalus were examined for the presence of organic nitro-toxins. The relative concentration of these nitro compounds was determined for the 263 nitro-containing species and varieties. Chemotaxonomic relationships existed among many species so that the presence, molecular configuration, and concentration of the nitro-toxins in the species examined could be used to predict the occurrence of these toxins in other taxa. Geographic differences were also noted for varieties of one species, A. robbinsii (Oakes) A. Gray.
2807327|Sandemania Gleason, a monotypic melastome genus of Brazil, Venezuela, and Peru, is described and illustrated with accompanying notes on its habitat, distribution, reproductive biology, and tribal and generic relationships. Sandemania belongs in the Tibouchineae tribe where it is related to Comolia and Macairea.
2806605|Helietta lottiae, a new species from tropical deciduous forest from Guerrero and Jalisco, Mexico, is described. A key to the North American species of the genus and their geographical distribution are presented.
2805555|Amino acid sequences of proteins such as cytochrome c are potentially very useful taxonomically at the level of families and orders, because they are precise, relatively stable, and independent of the traditional characters. Their proper use, however, is complex and difficult. Simple comparisons have very limited value; there are more differences between maize and wheat than between maize and some dicotylodns. Computer-generated phylogenetic trees, produced either by various of the matrix method or by the ancestral sequence method, avoid some of the problems of comparison by simple inspection, but they cannot securely distinguish parallel from monophyletic canges, nor can they detect all reversions. The necessary assumption of parsimony must sometimes fail, with unknown consequences. Interpretation of the data faces further theoretical problems if the differences turn out to be selective, and perhaps even more serious ones if they do not. Furthermore, ther is some reason to suppose that cytochrome c of plnats is subject to more frequent evolunionary change than that of animals, and more subject to the fixation of parallel and back mutations. The computer-based trees for cytochrome c of a limited number of kinds of angiosperms that have so far been produced are out of harmony with all previous phylogenetic system, and conclusions that have been based on them are seriously discordant with the fossil record. Although no reliance can be placed on conclusions drawn from the limited data now at hand, it may reasonably be hoped that when the swquence data are available for several different proteins for many different taxa, these data will be very useful in helping to resolve questions of relationships of families and orders.
2807836|In neotropical Rubiaceae, nine new species for Brazil and one new generic section are described. Six new combinations and two new statuses are proposed, and the author citation of Psychotria racemosa is corrected. Augusta is expanded to include Lindenia with nomenclatural adjustments, and Anthospermopsis is raised from a section to a genus.
2805426|Chromosome numbers are rerported for 105 collections which represent 59 species belonging to 35 genera. For two of these genera: Blepharoneuron and Triniochloa no documented chromosome counts have been published to date. Records for the following species: Aristida arizonica, A. pansa, A. schiedeana, Blepharoneuron tricholepis, Deschampsia pringlei, Eragrostis palmeri, Leptochloa viscida, Munroa squarrosa, Panicum vaseyanum, Setaria grisebachii, and Triniochloa stipoides are the first for these taxa. Counts of 2n = 28 for Agrostis perennans, 2n = 20 for Aegopogon cenchroides, 2n = 20 for Buchloe dactyloides, 2n = 54 for Digitaria filiformis, 2n = 60 and 2n = ca. 74 for Eragrostis intermedia, 2n = 32 for Erioneuron grandiflorum and E. pilosum, 2n = 44 for Hilaria cenchroides, 2n = 38 and 2n = ca. 180 for Hilaria mutica, 2n = 40 for Pereilema crinitum, 2n = 28 for Scleropogon brevifolius, 2n = ca. 108 for Setaria leucopila, and 2n = 36 for Oplismenus burmannii are different from any published report for these species. Cytological information on Mexican material of the following ten species: Agrostis perennans, Aristida hamulosa, Bouteloua aristidoides, Eragrostis cilianensis, Sporobolus nealleyi, Tridens muticus, Digitaria filiformis, Hackelochloa granularis, Oplismenus burmannii, and Pennisetum ciliare is here presented for the first time.
2807703|Revisionary study in the genus Striga (Scrophulariaceae) has distinguished a new species from Angola in the section Pentapleurae. Restricted to swampy areas, the plant has not been collected for more than fifty years, and its current status is not known.
2806781|Caulanthus barnebyi from northern Nevada is described, illustrated, and compared with its nearest relative, C. glaucus S. Wats.
2806476|The new combination, Atrichum cylindricum (Wild. ex Weber) G. Smith is made for a moss described in 1741 by Dillenius, based on a Clayton specimen from Virginia. This species, which has been overlooked by American bryologists, is now known from the southern Atlantic and Gulf coastal plain, and the Cumberland Plateau in eastern Tennessee. Atrichum undulatum var. attenuatum Bruch & Schimp. is a synonym. Illustrations of the species and a map of its distribution are included.
2807608| Daphnopsis filipedunculata, a new species from Serra dos Carajs, Par, Brazil, is distinguished by its long, thin primary peduncles and constricted hypanthium. 
2807356|Balboa diversifolia Liebm., known only from the type collection and hitherto of controversial affinity, is here referred to the genus Cracca Benth. As the epithet diversifolia is preoccupied in Cracca, the new name Cracca pacifica is proposed. This species is morphologically most similar to the widespread Cracca caribaea.
2805945|Astragalus knightii, related to ammophilous A. (sect. Cusickiani) ceramicus Sheld. but adapted to a specialized habitat and reciprocally modified in growth-form, is described from north-central New Mexico, illustrated and discussed.
2806878|Asterogyne guianensis, a new species from French Guiana, is described and illustrated. The differences between this and the morphologically similar A. spicata are given. A map and discussion of distribution is given for all five species of the genus.
2806837|My previously published provisional classification of the Cycadeles is here formally published. This classification is based upon a cladistic analysis of characters ranging from gross morphology to phytochemistry. Encephalartos is lectotypified.
2807246|An iventory of the type specimens of Orchidaceae in the general herbarium at the Komarov Botanical Institute (LE), St. Petersburg, Russia, is presented. The history of the collections and their significance are discussed. Taxonomic findings are presented. One new species, Epidendrum hagsateri Christenson, and one new combination, Masdevallia maculata K1. & Karst. f. flava (Hort. ex Stein) Christenson, are proposed.
2805523|The genus Lepista (Tricholomataceae, Agaricales) is discussed in relation to Clitocybe, and evidence is presented to warrant a transfer of the species of Lepista to Clitocybe. A new section, sect. Verruculosae, is proposed in Clitocybe to accommodate these species and several other Clitocybes with ornamented spores. New taxa proposed are: Clitocybe subalpina, C. tarda var. alcalina, C. pseudoirina, C. irina var. luteospora. New combinations proposed are: C. panaeoliformis var. panaeoliformis and var. westii, C. densifolia, C. praemagna, C. nuda, C. glaucona, C. saeva, C. graveolens. One nomen novum, Clitocybe fasiculata, is proposed for Lepista caespitosa (Bresadola) Singer. Eighteen species and three varieties are treated with a key to taxa and a complete description of each.
40793378|Eight new Ericaceae (Vaccinieae) from Bolivia and Peru are described, illustrated, and discussed: Orthaea madidiensis, Themistoclesia geniculata, Themistoclesia  diocalyx, Themistoclesia siranensis, Themistoclesia tunquiniensis, Themistoclesia woytkowskii, Thibaudia acacioides, and Thibaudia yungensis. Ocho nuevas especies de Ericaceae (Vaccinieae) de Bolivia y Per son descritas, ilustradas y discutidas: Orthaea madidiensis, Themistoclesia geniculata, Themistoclesia idiocalyx, Themistoclesia siranensis, Themistoclesia tunquiniensis, Themistoclesia woytkowskii, Thibaudia acacioides y Thibaudia yungensis.
2805678|Besleria mortoniana, from the Peninsula of Paria, Estado Sucre, Venezuela, is described as new.
2806351|Recognition of Clematis gattingeri Small as anindependent species has been based primarily on the smaller flowers and glandular pubescence of specimens collected from 1897 to 1901 by A. Gattinger. Recent studies have indicated that flower size varies among all members of subsect. Viornae to which C. gattingeri belongs and should not be considered a significant taxonomic character for species delimitation. Studies using both light and scanning electron microscopy confirm the presence of glandular pubescence on Gattinger's specimens, but other specimens with glandular pubescence have never since been found. Clematis gattingeri is believed to have been a minor variant of C. viorna L. and is accordingly placed in synonymy.
2806871|Two new species of Rhynchospora section Psilocarya are described and illustrated. Rhynchospora aburnea is known from Amazonian Venezuela and nearby Brazil while Rhynchospora waspamensis is known only from eastern Zelaya, Nicaragua. These species are distinguished from most of the species of section Psilocarya by means of a key to the species found in the Americas south to and including the Amazon Basin.
2666539|Cuscuta is a parasitic angiosperm that has been considered alternatively either as a genus within Convolvulaceae or as a monogeneric family in its own right. Although typically placed in the Solanales, Cuscuta has also been positioned within the Polemoniales. Extreme reduction of morphological and anatomical characters, as well as chloroplast genome reductions and rearrangements, has made the phylogenetic placement of Cuscuta uncertain. Analysis of 26S rDNA sequences suggests that Cuscuta is a derived member of Convolvulaceae. Molecular results are discussed in relation to the morphological and anatomical characters of autotrophic members of Convolvulaceae.
2807367| Four species of Mimosa, M. aureliana, M. chaconsis, and M. tobatiensis known only from eastern Parguay, and M. castanoclada known from northwestern Paraguay and eastern Bolivia, are described, figured, and compared with near kindred. 
2805628|Ranunculus subcordatus is described as new. The plant has been collected from two locations in North Carolina where its closeness to seaports and local aggressiveness, as well as its morphological relationship to South American taxa, indicates that it is not native.
2666608|Ten new species of Tibouchina (T. almedae, T. congestiflora, T. connata, T. hintonii, T. macvaughii, T. nanifolia, T. patens, T. roseotincta, T. sinaloensis, and T. thulia) are described from western Mexico. Distinguishing characteristics, phenology, distribution, and phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Illustrations of all these new species are provided.
2806656|Chemical data are given for Sciadophyton, Eogaspesiea, Lepidodendropsis, Triphyllopteris, Chlidanophyton and Drepanophycus. The participation of these taxa within clustering analysis is shown to generate a cluster referable tentatively to the lycopods. Introgression of clusters representative of some major plant groups (e.g., zosterophyllophytes with the lycopods, and the trimerophytes with the progymnospersm) may reflect fortuitous statistical relationships referable to different states of preservation or bona fide phylogenetic trends. Weighting of the data is shown to result in the greater resolution of clusters, while sample size (presently 34 taxa) demonstrates a considerable effect on statistical relationships. Thermolytic alterations of extant plant materials, when incorporated within fossil plant ordination idagrams, are shown to provide internal monitors allowing for a more precise evaluation of taxonomic-chemical relationships.
2666527| Alstroemeria hygrophila and A. orchidioides are both described as new from the state of Gois (including Distrito Federal) in Brazil. Alstroemeria hygrophila is a cerrado bog-dwelling species that grows semi-epiphytically on the culms of a sedge. The vegetative stems of this species characteristically zig-zag between the pseudonodes. Like other wetland Alstroemeria in Brazil (e.g., A. apertiflora, A. isabellana, and A. sellowiana), A. hygrophila has wiry stems bearing narrow, lanceolate, nonresupinate leaves, and does not form root tubers. Alstroemeria orchidioides is a hysteranthus forest understory species with large vegetative leaves aggregated at the apex of the stems. The leaves on flowering stems are reduced to scarious bract-like scales. Its flowers are a pale, nearly white, greenish yellow, a color not reported in any other Brazilian species. Both species have 2n = 16 chromosomes. 
3218524|A new species, Banara boliviana, known only from Depto. Santa Cruz, Prov. Florida, in the easternmost Andes of Bolivia, is described and illustrated. It is compared to B. glauca from the northern Andes.
2806409|A listing of papers and dissertations either using some type of cladistic analysis on a plant group or dealing with theoretical cladistics and written by a botanist. In addition, to facilitate studies in vicariance biogeography, this list includes the distribution of the taxa treated in the various papers.
2666627|The neotropical genus Fusaea is revised on the basis of almost 400 herbarium collections. The number of species is reduced to two, as F. decurrens R. E. Fr. is put into synonymy under F. longifolia (Aubl.) Saff. Three striking, newly observed characters are reported. An unknown type of coherence of styles is described. Wood anatomically, small rhombic crystals in the ray cells of the wood provide a novelty for Annonaceae. The axes of the rhipidiate inflorescence are, unlike other Annonaceae, not oriented in one plane by addorsement of the prophyll, but the angle of displacement is only 80-90
4497340| Passiflora tacanensis, a new species from southern Mexico, is described and illustrated. It was discovered during the course of a taxonomic revision of Passiflora subgenus Decaloba supersection Cieca and is assigned to that group of apetalous passion flowers. Passiflora tacanensis is known only from one fruiting herbarium specimen that was collected in southern Mexico on Volcn Tacan in a high mesophytic forest. It is distinguished from its closest relatives, P. coriacea, R sexocellata, P. mcvaughiana, and P. xiikzodz, by its foliose stipules, leaves that lack laminar nectaries but possess petiolar nectaries, and wide seeds with a chalazal beak that is not well developed. 
2666522|A new species, Brongniartia riesebergii (Fabaceae: Faboideae), endemic to a small area of the state of Durango, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Its morphological affinities with other species are discussed and habitat data are given. An emended description of B. norrisii McVaugh is also provided.
2807866|The hitherto monotypic and isolated Madagascan genus Karimbolea is redefined. One species is added to the genus and the new combination K. macrantha (Jum. & H. Perrier) Liede & Meve is provided. The unusual erect orientation of the pollinia in the type species, K. verrucosa, is interpreted as secondary shift from a pendulous position (tribe Asclepiadeae) rather than an indication for affinities with tribes characterized by erect pollinia (Stapelieae, Marsdenieae).
2807070|While preparing a treatment of the genus Rhynchospora for Flora Mesoamericana, a new species from Cerro Pirre was discovered. Rhynchospora pirrensis, described and illustrated here, can be distinguished from other species in section Paniculatae by its long, broad, mostly basal leaves and its punctate-papillose achenes. A key to all the broad-leaved species of that section is provided.
3218537| A new species, Pilocarpus trifoliolatus Skorupa & Pirani from Par, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new taxon resembles P. microphyllus Stapf ex Wardleworth and P. alatus C. J. Joseph ex Skorupa by its winged rachis and petiole and by its dilated stigma. 
30219400|The pollen of 32 species of Lysipomia was examined by light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopy. Two pollen types occur in the genus: 3-colporate and 6-colporate. The 3-colporate condition occurs in only two species, L. laciniata and L. pumila. The remaining 30 species are 6-colporate, a condition known from only one other genus in the Campanulaceae. Surface sculpturing among the species is uniformly striate. Pollen shape was highly variable within a single individual in comparisons of pollen gathered from herbarium specimens, FAA preserved material collected in the field, and prosh pollen from cultivated individuals grown from seed. Shape may change from oblate spheroidal to subprolate as a result of drying time and temperature, and should not be used as a morphological character in systematic studies if infraspecific variation is seen. When prosh or preserved pollen is not available, rehydrated pollen should be compared to reduce the possibility of inadvertent artifact production confounding the analysis of morphological data.
2806597|Three distinct types of stigma architecture, designated as "simple-erect," "conduplicate-spiral," and "convolute-blade" were identified for Bromeliaceae. Structure of the conduplicate-spiral and convulute-blade stigma types is highly complex and previously unreported. Stigma morphology, largely neglected in Tillandsioideae until recently, promises to yield new characters valuable in interpreting systematic relationships in this subfamily. Data indicate that the putatively plesiomorphic state (simple-erect) is retained in some members of all three subfamilies. We found convolute-blade-type stigmas only in Tillandsioideae, though not in all members of the subfamily. Our sample indicates that Tillandsioideae stigmas are more like those of Pitcairnioideae than of Bromelioideae, which is consistent with Smith's hypothesis of phylogenetic proximity of Tillandsioideae and Pitcairnioideae. Stigma architecture is provingto be a rich source of data for phylogenetic reconstruction and for classification at several infrafamilial levels.
2806839| Plutarchia, a shrubby pramo genus, is here reported for the first time in Ecuador where two species are recognized: P. angulata A. C. Smith and the new P. ecuadorensis Luteyn. These two species are keyed, described, and the new species illustrated. 
40980903|This paper describes Ascogrammitis, a new genus of grammitid ferns formerly combined under Terpsichore. Seventeen species are recognized, including five new ones: A. clavigera, A. colombiensis, A. loxensis, A. oxapampensis, and A. tungurahuae.New combinations are made for A. alan-smithii, A. anfractuosa, A. angustipes, A. athyrioides, A. clathrata, A. cuencana, A. david-smithii, A. dilatata, A. nana, A. pichinchae, A. pichinchensis, A. stuebelii, and a lectotype is chosen for Polypodium induens. A key is provided to distinguish the species, and illustrations are provided for 12 species. The genus occurs primarily in neotropical cloud forests, with the greatest diversity in the Andes. Ascogrammitis is one of two monophyletic groups of grammitid fems that are consistently associated with Acrospermum, an epibiotic bitunicate ascomycete that produces black clvate fruiting bodies.
2806265|Evidence form scanning electron microscopy of seed coat surfaces and leaf flavonoid chemistry has providecd new insights into the relationships of the problematical Chenopodium flabellifolium from San Martin Island, Baja California. The seed surface of C. flabellifolium is basically smooth and thus is essentially the same as members of the subsection Lejosperma of section Chenopodium. This feature distiguishes the species from the taxon that has commonly been considered its nearest relative, namely C. neomexicanum of subsection Cellulata, which has an elveolate seed surface. Leaf flavonoid chemistry also serves to separate C. fabellifolium and C. neomexicanum. Chenopodium flabellifolium has also been viewed as conspecific with C. inamoenum (= C. hians or C. leptophyllum) of subsection Lejosperma. While the seed surface indicates that C. flabellifolium is best treated as a member of this subsection, other morphological as well as chemical data suggest that its closest affinities within the subsection lie with C. fremontii. The leaves of the two speicies are essentially of the same shape and collectively differ strikingly from those of C. hians and C. leptophyllum. Leaf flavonoid chemistry indicates that C. flabellifolium is closer to C. fremontii than to other taxa of subsection Lejosperma occurring in the western Unitred States because both contain kaempferol 3-O-gly-cosides, which have not been detected elsewhere. The two species differ consistently in that the former has the pericarp attached to the seed whereas it is separable from the seed in the latter.
4098983|The taxonomy of Cuscuta nevadensis and C. veatchii is investigated. Cuscuta nevadensis is more closely related to C. veatchii and C. denticulata than to C. salina, and the former two taxa are accepted as species. A summary of relevant taxonomic and biological information is provided, including synonymy, distribution and ecology, keys, and a comparison of the morphology of flowers and seeds are examined. The morphological basis of vivipary in C. nevadensis is discussed. The status of Cuscuta vivipara, an invalid name in recent use, is clarified.
2807752|Myriocladus is a woody bamboo genus of 13 species endemic to the summits and slopes of tepuis in southern Venezuela and adjacent Brazil and Guayana. This revision presents a key to the species, taxonomy (nine species are newly placed in synonymy), descriptions, and distribution maps for all species.
4098992|A new cycad species, Cycas annaikalensis, has been discovered from the Malabar Coast of the southern Western Ghats of India. Although geographically distributed in a small population within the range of C. circinalis, it can be distinguished from the other described Indian Cycas species by its distinct habitat, habit, morphology of vegetative and reproductive parts, and anatomy of leaflets.
4099040|The epithets of the flowering plants of central French Guiana are classified into derivation categories. Specific epithets of the flowering plants of central French Guiana refer mostly to shapes (274 species), persons (252), places (212), appearance (146), and size (140). These categories account for 55% of names given to the plants of this flora. The most prolific publishers of names for the flora of central French Guiana are Aublet and Linnaeus, who were respectively the authors of 177 and 110 of the names of species (15% of the total) found in the flora of central French Guiana. Although many of the species names, such as those relating to place and person, are easy to categorize, many others are open to different interpretations. Specific epithets with different orthographies derived from Guiana or Guyana are discussed. In addition, problems in the use of diacritical marks and inconsistencies with spacing between the abbreviations of given names and surnames of authors of plant names are noted.
2807263|Three new species of Phacelia from Nuevo Leon, Mexico are described and illustrated. Two of these, P. hintoniorum and P. potosina, belong to the Crenulata group; the former, with included anthers, relates to P. coerulea; the latter, with exserted anthers, relates to P. alba or P. coulteri. The remaining novelty, P. zaragozana, belongs to the subgenus Cosmanthus where its closets relationship is with P. laxa.
2807656|Three new species of Neotropical Dichapetalaceae are described: Dichapetalum bernalii, D. mexicanum, and Tapura magnifolia. The two species of Dichapetalum belong to the group with fimbriate stiuples, and a key is given to that part of the genus.
2806918|Two new and related species, Astragalus rupertii and A. pomphocalyx, are proposed as new. They differ from all known taxa of Mexican Astragali mainly by the globose- or suboblong-urceolate calyx, suboblong inflated pod, and number of ovules. Astragalus rupertii differs from A. pomphocalyx by its elongated peduncles, loose racemes, and suboblong-urceolate calyx with black hairs. Descriptions, figures, and a key are included.
2805836|A new species, Sphaeromeria ruthiae, from Zion National Park, and three new combinations, S. martirensis, S. compacta, and S. potentilloides var. nitrophila, are presented. Morphological and anatomical evidence is used to support the recognition of Sphaeromeria as distinct from Tanacetum.
2806755|Described and illustrated is Disciphania heterophylla, of which the leaf-blades vary on one stem from symmetrically to pentagonal or irregularly 3-4-gonal. No known species resembles it in foliage.
2806223|A new combination in the subgenus Glycine is proposed [G. latifolia (Benth.) Newell & Hymowitz], based on the species Leptocyamus latifolius originally described by Bentham but later reduced by him to synonymy under G. tabacina. Living collections of G. latifolia form a discrete group which is morphologically distinct from the two species with which it has been confused, G. tabacina and G. tomentella. Evidence from cytology, hybridization studies and electrophroesis of seed proteins lends further support to recognition of G. latifolia as a separate species. A short description is included together with the pertinent synonymy and citation of specimens examined.
3218528|Lectotypes are selected for two taxa in Cleomella, and a new combination is made in Cleomella (Cleomaceae). Also presented is a key to the Intermountain West species and varieties of Cleomella, a description for Cleomella hillmanii and a discussion of its varieties, and a brief discussion on the distribution of the taxa of Cleomella.
2807322|Gynoxys dilloniana from northern Peru is described and illustrated, and its taxonomic relationships discussed.
2807156|A new species of Passiflora from Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described and named P. saccoi. This species belongs to subgenus Passiflora series Lobatae Harms because of its lobed leaves, foliaceous, semi-ovate to semi-oblong stipules that are attached on one side above base and, hence, often appear sub-reniform, and foliaceous, verticillate bracts borne near the apex of the peduncle.
2805578|An investigation was made of grasses variously referred to Bouteloua americana, B. filiformis, B. radicosa, B. repens, B. bromoides, B. heterostega, B. pubescens, and B. williamsii. Four of these species, B. americana, B. williamsii, B. repens, and B. radicosa, are maintained as separate taxa; the other four are reduced to synonymy under B. repens. Described as new is B. longiseta, with a tropical distribution from Oaxaca, Mexico, south to Honduras. Chromosome counts of 2n = 20 for B. williamsii and 2n = 40 for B. longiseta are the first for these taxa. Counts of 2n = 20, 2n = 40, and 2n = 60, and a few aneuploid numbers, are reported for B. repens.
2806830|Two new species belonging to Lejeuneaceae subfamily Lejeuneoideae have been found in northern Queensland, Australia: Cheilolejeunea hallingii and Otolejeunea australiensis. Both are described and illustrated, and keys to related species in the paleotropics are included.
2807632| The somatic chromosomes and karyotypes of two Argentine populations of Capsicum chaconse A. T. Hunz. have been studied, both of which have 2n = 24. The karyotypes are symmetrical, being composed of 11 m pairs + one st pair; two pairs of chromosomes are satellited: pairs 1 and 12 in one population and pairs 11 and 12 in the other one. A heteromorphic pair of satellited chromosomes in one individual suggests a spontaneous reciprocal translocation. Results are compared with previous reports for the species and genus. Data show an intra-specific karyotype variation. 
2807012|Psathyrella hypertropicalis, a new species, is described from a high mountain (Cofre de Perote) in the State of Veracruz, Mexico above the subtropical zone. This species is intermediate between P. velutina of the temperate regions and P. sepulchralis from the subtropical regions of Mexico. A list of 26 species of Psathyrella of Mexico is presented, of which 21 are from the tropics and subtropics, three from the temperate regions (P. velutina, P. spadicea, and P. hypertropicalis), and two with a broad distribution (P. candolleana and P. disseminata). Eleven are only known from Mexico.
2666502|A preliminary account of Entolomataceae from Costa Rica is presented. Three new taxa are described, two in Clitopilus, one in Rhodocybe, and three new combinations are proposed in Inocephalus. Five taxa of Clitopilus are reported for the first time from Costa Rica and a key to species is provided. Four species of Rhodocybe are discussed and a key to the six species known from Costa Rica is also provided. Alboleptonia earlei, Inocephalus murraii, Inocephalus quadratum, Rhodocybe incarnata and Rhodocybe pseudonitellina are now known to occur in Costa Rica.
2807528|Calathea steyermarkii from northwest Venezuela is described as new. It belongs to the "Ornata group." The juvenile foliage has a dark green to blackishgreen band along the midrib above. In some populations the outer staminode of the flower is lacking.
2806005|A recent study of Southeastern species of Stachys points out a problem involving the identity of S. nuttallii Shuttlew. ex Bentham. Type material of S. nuttallii is clearly representative of what is commonly known as S. riddellii House. S. riddellii of current authors must now be called S. nuttallii, S. riddellii becoming a taxonomic synonym. However, no valid names have been uncovered in the literature that can be correctly applied to the species, primarily from the Blue Ridge Mountains, previously known to most botanists as "S. nuttallii." These plants are described as a new species, Stachys eplingii.
30219388|Henriettea uniflora, which is known only from a diverse moist montane forest in the vicinity of Loma Trocha de Pey (or "Monteada Nueva"), Loma Pie de Palo, and Loma Remigio, the easternmost peaks of the Sierra de Baoruco, is described and illustrated. It is compared to species of the Henriettea squamulosa complex, especially H. squamulosa and H ciliata. The species of this complex are characterized by an indumentum of ferruginous, stellate-lepidote hairs.
2805763|A new Centropogon (sect. Wimmeriopsis subsect. Colombiani) from the Cordillera de Talamanca, Costa Rica, is described and compared to C. gutierrezii (Planch. & Oerst.) F. E. Wimmer, a species restricted to the Cordillera Central with which it previously has been confused.
2806928|Viola lithion and V. frank-smithii are rock-dwelling endemics that belong to the North American perennial, caulescent, simple-leaved, blue-, purple-, or white-flowered group of species. Viola lithion, from the White Pine and Pilot mountain ranges of eastern Nevada and adjacent Utah, belongs to section Chamaemelanium subsection Canadenses. It most closely resembles the reniform-leaved, Olympic Mountain V. flettii, together with which it possibly shares and ancestry with the widespread and allopatric V. canadensis. Viola franksmithii, restricted to the Logan Canyon dreinage of the Bear River Range in northern Utah, belongs to section Rostellatae subsection Rosulantes. It comes closest morphologically to V. howellii of the Coast Range, but likely evolved from the widespread V. adunca or a common ancestor.
2807208|All three species of the neotropical genus Myllanthus R. Cowan are transferred to Raputia Aublet, resulting in the following new combinations, R. maroana (R. Cowan) Kallunki, R. neblinensis (R. Cowan) Kallunki, and R. ulei (K. Krause) Kallunki. An emended generic description and a key to the four described species (including R. aromatica Aublet) are provided.
23254250|Ipomoea yaracuyensis (Convolvulaceae: Convolvuloideae: Ipomoeae) is described and illustrated by materials from cloud forests of the Sierra de Aroa and the Macizo de Nirgua of the Coastal Cordillera of Venezuela. This new species can easily be distinguished from other related species by the presence of few-flowered cymes supported by relatively short and arched peduncles, relatively large (2.33.1 cm long), subcoriaceous and apiculate sepals, and a yellow corolla ca. 7 cm long. A description of the pollen is also included. Se describe e ilustra Ipomoeae yaracuyensis (Convolvulaceae: Convolvuloideae: Ipomoeae) con material proveniente de los bosques nublados de la Sierra de Aroa y el Macizo de Nirgua, en la Cordillera de La Costa de Venezuela. Esta nueva especie puede ser fcilmente diferenciada de especies relacionadas por presentar cimas paucfloras sostenidas por pednculos arqueados relativamente cortos, spalos subcoriceos, apiculados, relativamente grandes (2.33.1 cm de largo) y corola amarilla ca. 7 cm de largo. Se incluye la descripcin del polen.
2805641|The diversity of fruit types within the Amentiferae appears to be the result of different seed dispersal and seedling establishment strategies that have evolved independently in the amentiferous families within the confines imposed by the wind-pollination syndrome. Dispersal of unadorned fruits and seeds by wind (e.g., Betula, Rhoiptelea, Casuarina) has preceded the development of more efficient air-borne devices (e.g., Ostrya, Carpinus, Engelhardia). Animal dispersal is the most advanced strategy, relying rarely on drupes, as in the shrubby Myricaceae, or on nuts, as in Corylus, Quercus, Carya, Juglans, Alfaroa, etc. The pattern of seedling establishment shows a structural-functional relationship to the seed dispersal strategy. Epigeal germination predominates in plants of open habitats. Those species with small fruits rely on wind dispersal, and their seeds have a relatively short germination time, whereas species with medium-sized fruits are often animal-dispersed with seeds that may have protracted germination times. In either case the reserve food supply for the young seedling is limited, and light is needed to spark photosynthesis. Hypogeal germination has evolved independently in several amentiferous families (e.g., Betulaceae, Fagaceae, Juglandaceae). This pattern is associated with closed habitats and plants with large seeds that have the capability of establishing vigorous seedlings in microhabitats of reduced light intensity where photosynthesis is impaired. The subterranean protection afforded the cotyledons and axillary meristems is a correlative feature that may have considerable importance in seedling survival where desiccation and predation are intense.
2805739|Examination of the fossil record shows that there is no direct evidence regarding the origins and early evolution of the Psilotaceae. Past comparisons between Psilotum or Tmesipteris and certain fossil plants are reviewed. The major types of early land vascular plants are surveyed in order to demonstrate their basic characteristics and evolutionary trends and to point out the absence of any direct links with the Psilotaceae. Fossil plants of probematical affinities which appear to be important in the early diversification of ferns or plants closely related to ferns are discussed. The nature of stem-leaf relationships of some primitive, extant filicalean ferns and possibly the Psilotaceae is considered in terms of possible similar occurrences among fossil plants.
3218410|The Begonia longifolia Blume complex is revised and seven species are recognized. Begonia crassirostris Irmsch., B. inflata C. B. Clarke, B. tricornis Ridl., and B. trisulcata (A. DC.) Warb. are synonymized with Begonia longifolia Blume, making this the most widely distributed Begonia species within Asia. Begonia tetragona Irmsch. is synonymized with B. acetosella Craib. Descriptions are provided for Begonia longifolia, B. acetosella, and four closely related and also poorly known species with baccate fruit: B. cristata Warb. ex L. B. Sm. & Wassh., B. renifolia Irmsch., B. sarcocarpa Ridl., and B. turbinata Ridl. Begonia hayatae Gagnep. is also recognized as a member of this complex but is not described here. Evidence for a speciation mechanism within this group is discussed. Begonia acetosella and B. sarcocarpa are lectotypified.
2807778|Botanical exploration in northeastern Oaxaca has revealed an undescribed species of Ulmus. A description and illustration of Ulmus ismaelis highlight its distinctive features. a dichotomous key summarizes morphological differences for all Ulmus species in Mexico.
4098963| Tontelea fuliginea differs from other species whose stamens alternate with undivided stigma-lobes by its profusely ramified, many flowered, and densely dirty-brown puberulous inflorescences. This paper also provides a synopsis and key of the group of species with alternate stamens and 3-lobed stigmas with undivided lobes (T. at tenuata group). Four lectotypes are designated for previously published names: Tontelea longifolia, Tontelea micrantha, Tontelea corrugulata, and Salacia micrantha var. lancifolia. /// Tontelea fuliginea distingue de las otras especies con estambres altemando com los lobos no divididos del estigma, por las inflorescencias profusamente ramificadas, con muchas flores y con indumento denso, pubrulo y fuligneo. En este articulo se realiza una sinopsis del grupo de especies con estambres alternando con los lobos no divididos del estigma (grupo de T. attenuata) as como una clave para las especies. Se designan cuatro lectotipos para nombres ya publicados: Tontelea longifolia, Tontelea micrantha, Tontelea corrugulata, and Salacia micrantha var. lancifolia. 
2806455| Ten new species (Billbergia manarae, Croizatia naiguatensis, Croton huberi, Rinorea oraria, Anaectocalyx manarae, Linociera avilensis, Cynanchum beatricis, C. manarae, Matelea costanensis, and M. manarae) are described in preparation for the forthcoming Flora of Avila and Naiguat. 
2805086|A taxonomic treatment of three species of Texas desert and desert-margin cacti, Echinocereus enneacanthus Engelm. E dubius (Engelm.) Rumpler, and E. stramineus (Engelm.) Rumpler, is presented. Field studies show that E. enneacanthus is a grassland and desert-margin species rarely found above altitudes of 2000 ft in Texas, while E. dubius and E. stramineus are desert-margin and desert species not found below 2000 ft. Morphological studies make possible the identification of these species on the basis of the shape, size, and arrangement of the spines. The epidermal characteristics are discussed, and the possibility of the use of the epidermal cell patterns as identifying characters is postulated. The species E. enneacanthus is divided into three forms based on spine characters and habitat.
4497349| Aulonemia yanachagensis is described from cloud forests at 2600- 3000m elevation in the Parque Nacional Yanachaga-Chemilln, Prov. Oxapampa, Dept. Pasco, Peru. It differs from all other congeners in its combination of prominent sheath auricles, with abundant radiate fimbriae, small foliage leaf blades, and awnless spikelets. /// Se describe Aulonemia yanachagensis, la cual crece en el bosque de nieblas del Parque Nacional Yanachaga-Chemilln, Prov. Oxapampa, Dep.. Pasco, Per, a elevaciones entre 2600-3000 m. Esta especie se difiere de todos sus congneres por la combinacin de caracteres tales como aurculas prominentes, fimbrias radiales abundantes, lminas foliares pequefias, y espiguillas sin aristas. 
2806860|Aralia, described by Linnaeus, remains a poorly defined genus. Many satellite genera of Aralia have been proposed, and some have been accepted without critical evaluation. These genera include Coudenbergia, Megalopanax, Parapentapanax, and Pentapanax, This study examined the historical background of the establishment of thiese genera and their diagnostic characters. It was found that (1) Aralia s. str. is a relatively diverse genus; (2) theeparation of Pentapanax in Parapentapanax from Aralia is unsubstantiated; (3) Megalopanax is synonymous with Coudenbergia; and (4) the boundaries between Aralia and both Coudenbergia and Pentapanax intergrade. It is proposed, therefore, to merge Coudenbergia, Parapentapanax and Pentapanax with Aralia, which has nomenclatural priority. Aralia is herein defined as consisting of those spedies in Araliaceae with pinnate leaves, articulated rachises, five to eight-merous flowers, petals imbricate in buds, and articulated pedicels. The revised generic concept requires the following new combinations or new names: Aralia castanopsisicola, A. franchetti, A. gigantea, A. laevis, A. leschenaultii, A. parasitica, A. rex, A. subcordata, A. verticillata, and A. warmingiana.
2806267|The flavonoid glycosides of both varieties of Elmera racemosa were isolated and identified. The compounds were the monoglucosides of kaempferol, quercetin and myricetin, the rutinosides of the same aglycones, and the rhamnosylrutinosides of kaempferol and quercetin. All glycosides were linked at position-3 of the flavonols. The two varieties (var. racemosa and var. puberulenta C. L. Hitchcock) were identical. A comparison of the flavonoid chemistry of Elmera, Heuchera, and Tellima supports the existence of Elmera as a genus. A survey of several collections of Tellima grandiflora, Heuchera micrantha, and H. cylindrica showed only minor quantitative differences in the two-dimensional thin layer chromatograms from collection to collection. The possible origin of Tellima and Elmera from ancestral stock having Heuchera-like flavonoid chemistry is discussed.
2805273|Vernonia georgiana Bartlet was demonstrated to be of hybrid origin by means of hybridization experiments and comparisons of the artificial F hybrids with herbarium specimens of V. georgiana. The two parental species are V. angustifolia Michx. and V. acaulis (Walt.) Gleason.
2806840|A new species of Eschweilera, E. pseudodecolorans is described, illustrated, and discussed.
40793377|We describe and illustrate the new species Actinocephalus verae (Eriocaulaceae: Paepalanthoideae). This species is endemic to the rocky outcrops of the Espinhao range in Minas Gerais, Brazil. We make comparisons with Actinocephalus ithyphyllus and Actinocephalus ochrocephalus, the morphologically most similar species. The new species' morphological variation, habitat, geographic distribution, and conservation status are discussed. Descrevemos e ilustramos a nova especie Actinocephalus verae (Eriocaulaceae: Paepalanthoideae). Esta especie  endmica dos campos rupestres da Cadeia do Espinhao em Minas Gerais, Brasil. Comparamos esta especie com Actinocephalus ithyphyllus e Actinocephalus ochrocephalus, as especies mais similares morfologicamente. Fazemos comentarios sobre a variao morfolgica, habitat, distribuiao geogrfica e status de conservaao.
2807740|Two new species of Serjania sect. Serjania, Serjania neei from Bolivia and S. rhytidococca from Mexico, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives.
4497359| A preliminary phylogenetic analysis is presented for Lomariopsis based on sequence data from the chloroplast intergenic spacer trnL-trnF. The analysis includes 27 (60%) of the approximately 45 species in the genus. A strict consensus of six most parsimonious trees supports two main clades-the Sorbifolia-group and the Japurensis-group-previously proposed based on heteroblastic leaf development. The Sorbifolia-group is entirely neotropical and includes all the Antillean species. The species in this clade had either smooth or crested spores, but the tree was ambiguous whether these spore types define two separate clades. The Japurensis-group consists of two clades, one primarily neotropical and the other entirely paleotropical. Within the neotropical clade nests a clade of two African species, which have long-spiny spores typical of the neotropical clade and unlike those found in the African-Madagascan clade. The occurrence of these two species in Africa is best explained by long-distance spore dispersal of their ancestral species from the neotropics to Africa. Within the paleotropical clade of the Japurensis-group, a clade of three African species is nested among seven species from Madagascar (all the species from that island). Within the genus as a whole, a derived character-the abortion of the rachis apex and its replacement by the distal lateral pinna assuming a terminal positionwas found to have evolved separately in each of the four species with this kind of leaf apex. A scanning electron microcope study of the spores revealed five types, and a transformation series for these different types is proposed. Characters of spore morphology and heteroblastic leaf development agreed with many of the clades in the phylogenetic tree. This study represents the first phylogeny for the genus. /// Resumen. Se presenta un anlisis filogentico preliminar para Lomariopsis basado en datos de secuencias del espaciador intergentico del cloroplasto trnL-trnF. El anlisis incluye 27 (60%) de las aproximadamente 45 especies del gnero. Un consenso estricto de seis rboles ms parsimoniosos soporta dos clados principales-el grupo Sorbifolia y el grupo Japurensis-previamente propuestos en anlisis basados en el desarrollo heteroblstico de las hojas. El grupo Sorbifolia es completamente neotropical e incluye todas las especies de las Antillas. Las especies de este clado presentan esporas lisas o crestadas, sin embargo el rbol fue ambiguo con respecto a si este tipo de esporas define dos clados separados. El grupo Japurensis est compuesto por dos clados, uno principalmente neotropical y otro completamente paleotropical. Dentro del clado neotropical se encuentra anidado un clado de dos especies Africanas, que poseen un tipo de esporas con espinas largas que es tpico del clado neotropical y diferente al encontrado en el clado compuesto por especies Africanas y de Madagascar. La mejor explicacin para la presencia de estas dos especies en Africa es dispersin a largas distancias de esporas de sus especies ancestrales desde el neotrpico hacia frica. Dentro del clado paleotropical del grupo Japurensis, un clado de tres especies africanas se encuentra anidado entre siete especies de Madagascar (la totalidad de las especies de esta isla). Para el gnero completo un carcter derivado, el aborto del pice del raquis y su reemplazo por la pinna lateral distal asumiendo una posicin terminal, se encontr que ha evolucionado por separado en cada una de las cuatro especies con esta clase de ipice de la hoja. Un estudio de microscopio electrnico de barrido de las esporas revel cinco tipos, se propone una serie de transicin para estos diferentes tipos. Los caracteres de la morfologa de la espora y del desarrollo heteroblstico de la hoja proporcionaron soporte adicional para muchos de los clados en el rbol filogentico. Este estudio representa la primera filogenia del gnero. 
2807137| Thismia salensis is described and illustrated. 
2806023|Allozyme variation between and within eight populations of the diploid annual Bidens discoidea was investigated using gel electrophoresis. The species is relatively homogeneous morphologically in comparison with related species and is highly autogamous. Low levels of within-population variation occur at 16 gene loci, and single alleles are nearly fixed at each of seven loci polymorphic for the species. High levels of differentiation occur between populations. with a mean genetic identity of 0.865. The alleles at the polymorphic loci occur in different combinations in the populations with little apparent geographical pattern. Each population is probably composed of a single lineage of highly homozygous individuals with very limited gene flow between populations.
2806075|The reconstruction of phylogenetic relationships should be based not on belief but on an explicit and logical analysis of all available characters. Hennigian phylogenetic systematics (cladistics) provides a framework for evaluating putative homologies characterizing particular hierarchical levels, determining relationships of taxa sharing congruent patterns of homologies, and constructing a classification based on this information. Fossils can and should be included in the analysis if enough of the relevant characters are preserved; this is not currently possible for early land plants because of the fragmentary fossil record. To avoid circularity, adaptive and functional considerations should be addressed only after a phylogenetic hypothesis based on patterns of shared homologies is available.
2805693|The effect of change of number of OTU's (operational taxonomic units) in a numerical taxonomic units) in a numerical taxonomic study was investigated using 28 taxospecies of the genus Salix in California and 22 sites of sect. Sitchenses of the genus. A coefficient of Euclidean distance was used to estimate relationships among the OTU's based on 99 morphological characters. Two methods of clustering were employed: 1) Tryon's key communality cluster analysis, and 2) the unweighted pair group method. The latter results in a phenogram. It was found that the number of OTU's employed does make a difference. But the differences is not random and is centered around those OTU's most closely related to the OTU's being added.
2805445|Croton rzedowskii is described, the type being from San Luis Potosi. The species ranges from San Luis Potosi westward to Zacatecas, thence southeastward to Oaxaca.
23254248|Packera insulae-regalis (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) is a new species that is only known from one population occurring near the summit of Mount Franklin on Isle Royale, Michigan, U.S.A. It resembles both P. paupercula and P. indecora but is hexaploid, whereas the former has diploid and tetraploid populations and the latter is octoploid around the western Great Lakes. Whereas most species of Packera are self-incompatible (as is P. paupercula) and a few are self-compatible (as is P. indecora), P. insulae-regalis is unique in the genus in being partially self-compatible, as far as is known. Its origin postglacially by hybridization between these two species is hypothesized.
2807731|The new species Serjania matogrossensis from Mato Grosso, Brazil, belonging to Serjania sect. Platycoccus, is described and illustrated. Serjania decemstriata is reinstated in Serjania sect. Platycoccus, and S. grammathophora (previously of doubtful origin) is identified as being of Brazilian origin. Fruits and tendrils of Lophostigma plumosum are described for the first time.
41406757|A name (Eremogone loisiae) is provided for those plants from northern Utah and southeastern Idaho that have gone under the misapplied name Eremogone kingii subsp. uintahensis. Eremogone loisiae, named in honor of Lois A. Arnow, is distinguished from E. kingii by its longer and narrower, flexuous leaves and its longer sepals, petals, styles, capsules, and seeds.
3218481|Korupodendron songweanum is described as the second genus of Vochysiaceae from Africa. Its classification, biogeography, conservation status, and local name and uses are discussed.
40648093|Lithospermum (Boraginaceae) comprises approximately 40 species in both the Old and New Worlds, with a center of diversity in the southwestern United States and Mexico. Using ten cpDNA regions, a phylogeny of Lithospermum and related taxa was reconstructed. Lithospermum (including New World and Old World species) and related New World members of Lithospermeae form a monophyletic group, with Macromeria, Onosmodium, Nomosa, Lasiarrhenum, and Psilolaemus nested among species of Lithospermum. New World Lithospermeae also is a monophyletic group, with Eurasian species of Lithospermum sister to this group. Because Lithospermum is not monophyletic without the inclusion of the other New World genera, species from these genera are transferred to Lithospermum, and appropriate nomenclatural changes are made. New combinations are Lithospermum album, Lithospermum barbigerum, Lithospermum dodrantale, Lithospermum exsertum, Lithospermum helleri, Lithospemum leonotis, Lithospermum notatum, Lithospermum oaxacanum, Lithospermum pinetorum, Lithospermum rosei, Lithospermum trinverium, and Lithospermum unicum; new names are Lithospermum chiapense, Lithospermum johnstonii, Lithospermum macromeria, Lithospermum onosmodium, Lithospermum rzedowskii, and Lithospermum turneri.
2806729|Ambrosia johnstoniorum is described from two collections of I. M. Johnston from central Coahuila. The taxon has a distinctive assortment of characteristics and appears most closely related to Ambrosia nivea (Robins. & Fern.) Payne of northern Chihuahua.
2807524|Aiphanes tricuspidata, a new species from Colombia and Ecuador is described and illustrated. It differs from the most similar species, A. deltoidea Burret, in its solitary habit, the tricuspidate pinnae, and a completely different flower arrangement.
2805551|The genus Ada (Orchidaceae: Oncidiinae) consists of eight species of epiphytes distributed from Nicaragua to Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. The two sections of the genus Brassia are compared, and the section Glumaceae is transferred to Ada. Ada, the glumaceous brassias, and Mesospinidium are compared, and it is suggested that Ada (in the broad sense) and Mesospinidium are distinct but closely related genera.
2805878|Two new species are described, Astragalus schinetorum from central Chile (Coquimbo) and A. ledinghamii from southwestern Iran (Fars); in connection with the latter, a new name (A. koelzii) is substituted for the posterior homonym A. unifoliolatus Sirj. & Rech. f.
2806920|An inventory of critical type material in the recently rediscovered Kraenzlin Orchid Herbarium is presented. In addition, a partial inventory of type material of Orchidaceae conserved in the general herbarium at Hamburg (HBG) is presented as a guide to the collections.
2807352|Pierre-mile Gounelle, a French entomologist, collected a few plants in Brazil between 1884 and 1890 that are deposited at P. He collected in the states of Bahia, Minas Gerais, Par, Pernambuco, Rio de Janeiro, So Paulo, and Santa Catarina.
40980900|Taxonomic changes are made to reflect a reassessment of morphology based on the results of molecular phylogenetic studies. A new genus, Davilanthus, is described to include six species that collectively form the sister group to Simsia, and includes the following species transferred from Viguiera: Davilanthus davilae, Davilanthus hidalgoanus, Davilanthus hypargyreus, Davilanthus huajuapanus, Davilanthus purpusii, and Davilanthus sericeus. Three species formerly placed in Viguiera ser. Grammatoglossae are transferred to Simsia: Simsia benziorum, Simsia ovata, and Simsia rhombifolia.
2806700|The single species of Geropogon, G. hybridus (L.) Schultz-Bip., is sometimes submerged in the morphologically similar Tragopogon. A comparative study of the karyotypes of Geropogon and Tragopogon sensu stricto clarified their relationship. The karyotype of G. hydridus (2n=14) was compared with that of T. dubius Scop. (2n=12). The karyotypes are distinct, offering a compelling reason to recognize Geropogon as a separate genus.
2807053|Euterpe luminosa, a new species from Peru, is described and illustrated. The differences between it and its congeners are discussed.
2807061|The following new combinations are made: Myrteola phylicoides (Benth.) Landrum, Myrteola phylicoides var. glabrata (Berg) Landrum, Myrceugenia alpigena var. fuliginea (Berg) Landrum, Myrceugenia ovata var. regnelliana (Berg) Landrum, and Myrceugenia pilotantha var. nothorufa (Legrand) Landrum.
2805709|Five species from Amazonia are described as new and illustrated: Sagittaria purusana Prance (Alismataceae), Connarus wurdackii Prance (Connaraceae), Anthodiscus klugii Standley ex Prance (Caryocaraceae), and Anacampta pendula Markgraf and Ambelania longiloba Markgraft, the latter two members of the Apocynaceae.
2805868|Part one of a bosystematic study of the Caltha leptosepala complex in the Rocky Mountains involves a brief history of the taxonomic problem in addition to analyses of phenolic chromatography and cytotaxonomy. Data obtained from the natural populations sampled support the premise that only one species, Caltha leptosepala, can be taxonomically justified for the Rocky Mountains.
2807654|Chromosome numbers determined for ten species of Agalinis from Peru and Bolivia are all n=16. Field observations have provided morphological data about habit, leaves, inflorescences, and flowers. A key to species in Peru and Bolivia is provided.
2805850|The genus Oreanthes is reviewed by means of a key to the species, descriptions, specimen citations, and a table. Two new species are described-O. ecuadorensis Luteyn and O. rotundifolius Luteyn.
2806912|Ouratea scottii, consisting of vicariant subsp. scottii from the Guianas and eastern Amazonia, and subsp. occidentalis from western Amazonia, and O. erecta from the Guianas are described.
2807735|Racomitrium visnadiae is described form Parque Nacional do Capara in Minas Gerais, Brazil. It is characterized by its acquatic habitat, stout long-excurrent costa, and unistratose lamina. The species is postulated to be most closely related to the Fuegian R. bartramii (Roiv.) H. Rob. and is placed in subgen. Ellipticodryptodon (Vilh.) Bedn.-Ochyra & Ochyra sect. Ellipticodryptodon.
2807717|Peperomia gracieana is newly described and illustrated, and differences from other morphologically similar species of Peperomia are discussed.
2807399|Two new species of Xyridaceae, Syris jolyi and X. countensis, from Minas Gerais, Brazil, are distinguished from close relatives on the basis of morphological features including bracts, speals, and leaves.
2666524|During a revisionary study of Spigelia, three new species from Mexico were discovered. Two of these new species appear to be narrow endemics, one in the state of Chiapas and one in the state of Guerrero, and the third is more widespread in Mexico and Guatemala. These new species are described, illustrated, and distinguished from other North American Spigelias.
2806652|Convolvulus grandiflorus Jacq. has been treated as a synonym of Operculina ventricosa and Stictocardia tiliifolia. It is here accepted as identifiable with Ipomoea (sect. Calonyction) macrantha which is the correct name for Jacquin's taxon. Full synonymies of Ipomoea macrantha and Operculina ventricosa are given, along with a comment about a variant occurring in Micronesia.
2806204|Leaves from herbarium specimens representing 404 species and 89 sections of Old World and South American Astragalus were examined for nitro compounds. Thirty-Three species contained nitro compounds. This included all species examined of section Uliginosi while sections Sewerzowia, Hemiphaca, Hemiphragmium, Oroboidei, Brachycarpus, Melanocercis, and Melilotopsis also contained significant percentages of nitro-containing species.
2806979|Presented here is a synonymized list, including a list of types, of the plants collected on Howard Stansbury's expedition to the Great Salt Lake, 1849-1850.
2807566|The Organization for Flora Neotropica (OFN) is a UNESCO Category B organization with the mission of, among other things, providing published information about the plants and fungi of the New World tropics (Neotropics). OFN was established in 1964, largely through the efforts of Drs. Jos Cuatrecasas and F. Raymond Fosberg. Beginning with the first Flora Neotropica monograph (a treatment of Swartzia by R. S. Cowan in 1968), 67 volumes treating 905 species of fungi, 18 species of lichens, 228 species of bryophytes, and 5971 species of flowering plants have been published. Despite this impressive record of accomplishment, it is apparent that the rate of monograph production is neither sufficient to supply the need for information about the plants of the Neotropics nor fast enough to keep ahead of the rapid destruction of Neotropical habitats. Recommendations are made for improving the productivity of OFN.
2807387|Fruits of Cionomene Krukoff, a monotypic genus know hitherto only from staminate plants, have the vermifrom embryo embedded in laminate endosperm that characterizes tribeanomospermeae. The genus is related, not to Curarea Barneby & Krukoff, as surmised by the describer, but to Anomospermum Miers and Caryomene Barneby & Krukoff.
2806942|Borreria terminalis Small is recognized as a species distinct from S. verticillata L. and as an endemic to southern Florida and is transferred to the genus Spermacoce L. A new combination, S. terminalis (Small) Kartesz & Gandhi, is proposed, and a lectotype is designated.
2806956|Salix section Cordatae subsection Luteae includes 10 taxa and occurs in most of North America. The taxa are here treated as four species, one with six varieties and another with two varieties. Six new combinations are proposed under Salix eriocephala.
40793374|Dos nuevos taxones, Schizachyrium paucispiculatum y Schizachyrium hatschbachii subsp. sltense, son descritos e ilustrados. Se presentan los caracteres diagnsticos, comentarios taxonmicos y sus relaciones con especies afines. Two new taxa, Schizachyrium paucispiculatum and Schizachyrium hatschbachii subsp. sltense, are described and illustrated. Diagnostic characters, taxonomic comments, and discussions of relationships of these taxa with other species are provided.
2807210|Described, figured, and discussed are the new species Disciphania dioscoreoides Barneby from Amazonian Ecuador and Peru, and D. tricaudata Barneby, sympatric with it in Ecuador. Both are referred to Disciphania sect. Taubertia (K. Schumann) Barneby.
2805730|A systematic treatment is given for the known species of Richardia L. with keys, synonymies, descriptions, photographs, typifications, and range maps and/or citations of specimens. The 15 species of Richardia are grouped into two sections: sect. Richardia with four species from the southern United States to Peru, Argentina, and Brazil; and sect. Asterophyton (K. Schum.) Lewis & Oliver with 11 species having disjunct distributions in three areas: Texas-Mexico, Cuba, and central South America. New combinations are R. tricocca subsp. tetracocca (Mart. & Gal.) Lewis & Oliver, R. muricata subsp. pectidifolia (Urban) Lewis & Oliver, R. arenicola (Britton & Wilson) Lewis & Oliver, and R. ciliata (Britton & Wilson) Lewis & Oliver. Two new species are described: R. boliviensis Lewis & Oliver and R. schumannii Lewis & Oliver.
30219374|We conducted a morphological study of the Agrimonia species of North and Central America to clarify species limits and facilitate identification. We recognize eight species: A. parviflora, A. incisa, A. microcarpa, A. pubescens, A. rostellata, A. gryposepala, A. pringlei, and A. striata. A key for identification as well as descriptions of the recognized taxa with a discussion of the nomenclature and discriminating morphological characters are presented. Lectotypes are designated for A. parviflora, A. suaveolens, A. serrifolia, A. incisa, A. pumila, A. parviflora DC non Aiton, A. eupatoria  parviflora, and A. striata. A lectotype and an epitype are designated for A. platycarpa. A neotype is designated for A. rostellata. /// Hemos llevado a cabo un estudio morfolgico de las especies del gnero Agriminia (Rosaceae) en Norte y Centroamrica con el fin de clarificar los lmites entre especies y de facilitar la identificacin. Nosotros reconocemos 8 especies: A. parviflora, A. incisa, A. microcarpa, A. pubescens, A. rostellata, A. gryposepala, A. pringlei y A. striata. Se presenta una clave para la identificacin como tambin descripciones de los taxa reconocidos con una discusin de la nomenclatury y caracteres morfolgicos discriminantes. Se designa un lectotipo para A. parviflora, A. suaveolens, A. serrifolia, A. incisa, A. pumila, A. parviflora DC non Aiton, A. eupatoria  parviflora y A. striata. Se designa un lectotipo y un eptitipo para A. platycarpa. Se designa un neotipo para A. rostellata.
2807231|Twenty-one flavonoids were isolated from the leaves of two endemic species of Myrceugenia on the Juan Fernandez Islands, M. fernandeziana and M. schulzei, from two related species from Brazil, M. campestris and M. rufescens, and from five species from continental Chile, M. colhaguensis, M. exsucca, M. lanceolata, M. pinifolia, and M. rufa. A phenetic analysis was used to evaluate chemical similarities. Myrceugenia campestris and M. rufescens appear most closely related to each other based on flavonoid profiles, and they are also different from the other seven species. The two endemic species in the Juan Fernandez Islands. M. fernandeziana and M. schulzei, group with the continental Chilean species. The former is most closely related to M. lanceolata, and the latter clusters with M. exsucca, although somewhat distantly. The results suggest that the two Juan Fernandez endemics are derived from two introductions from the Chilean continent and not from immigrants from the eastern side of the Andes.
2806384|Wood anatomy of 16 collections representing three species containing eight subspecies of the single genus Daphniphyllum is analyzed quantitatively and qualitatively. Daphniphyllum has vessels angular to roundish in transection, scalariform perforation plates, scalariform to opposite lateral wall vessel pitting, tracheids with fully bordered pits, heterocellular multiseriate and uniseriate rays, diffuse axial parenchyma and, in one taxon, chambered crystals in axial parenchyma cells. Growth rings, narrower vessels, and more numerous vessels per square mm characterize taxa from cooler habitats. All of the taxa have highly mesomorphic woods. Comparisons are made between Dapniphyllaceae and the other families of Thorne's Pittosporales (Balanopaceae, Bruniaceae, Buxaceae, Byblidaceae, Geissolomataceae, Grubbiaceae, Myrothammaceae, Pittosporaceae, Roridulaceae, and Tremandraceae). These families are most comparable to hamamelidoid or rosoid families; other similarities or relationships for these families may exist, but are less conspicuous or less close. The families cited may form a plexus, characterized by primitive xylary and other features, comparable to Annonales (Magnoliales) as products of an early radiation of dicotyledons.
2806595|Trees of Miconia minutiflora produced abundant flowers for only one to three days during mid-April 1983 in the vicinity of Saul, French Guiana. They attracted large numbers of at least 14 species of bees that collected nectar or pollen or both. Nectar production is uncommon in the Melastomataceae and not previously reported for Miconia. Peak bee activity at the trees was in the morning and by afternoon most visits were limited to those bees in search of remnant pollen, especially species of Trigona. As has been shown for other neotropical plants, heavy rains may trigger flowering in this species. It is suggested that the flowering system of M. minutiflora promotes outcrossing because of interactions among the numerous species of bees visiting the trees and because of inter-individual variation in nectar and pollen availability. Therefore, bees may fly to other trees instead of becoming satiated with nectar or pollen from a single tree.
2805655|Limnanthes vinculans (Limnanthaceae) is described as a new species belonging to section Reflexae. It is endemic to a small area of Sonoma County, California, and is most closely related to L. douglasii and L. bakeri.
2806111|Two new species and a new variety, Hansteinia jamesonii from Pichincha, Ecuador and H. magdalenensis and H. magdalenensis var. pilosa from the Sierra Nevada de Santa Maria, are described, illustrated, and compared with H. charitopes, their closest relative.
2805662|A single species of Pitcairnia (P. bromeliifolia) comprising three welldefined and geographically discontinuous biotypes, occurs in Jamaica. Extensive field studies and transplant experiments have made possible an understanding of the ecology, variation, and distribution of natural populations. Emphasis is placed on the variability of traditional characters and a description of some previously overloocked scale patterns and types which serve to distinguish varieties bromeliifolia, graminifolia Griseb., and wynteri R. W. Read, the last herein described as new.
2806091|The Eurystyles Alliance is reviewed with regard to column characters, and a new genus, Synanthes, is described. Three genera, Eurystyles, Pseudoeurystyles, and Synanthes, compose the alliance of capitate-flowered epiphytic Spiranthinae.
23254283|The genus Acalypha (Euphorbiaceae) contains three commonly cultivated ornamental species. Two of these have been propagated for centuries and are not known in the wild: Acalypha hispida and A. wilkesiana. A third species has only recently appeared in the horticultural trade, with the earliest evidence of its cultivation from the mid-1980s. This taxon is often grown in hanging baskets or as groundcover and owes its appeal to the possession of attractive, terminal pistillate inflorescences. Although it is commonly misidentified as A. hispaniolae, A. pendula, A. reptans, or A. repens, we present evidence that it is instead A. herzogiana, a native of Argentina, Bolivia, and Paraguay. Careful examination of the cultivated plants reveals that they differ from plants in the wild by possessing dimorphic pistillate inflorescences, a feature otherwise unkonwn in Acalypha. One of these inflorescence types is relatively inconspicuous and presents the typical structure of the majority of Acalypha in that the pistillate flowers are closely enveloped by an accrescent, foliaceous bract and not densely clustered. By contrast, the other inflorescence type is showy and highly anomalous. It consists of hundreds of densely clustered, ebracteate, abortive pistillate flowers. These unusual pistillate flowers are born in glomerules like the staminate flower and have no ovaries, but instead produce five to eight styles that arise directly from the receptacle in the position normally occupied by stamens in staminate flowers. We conclude that these unusual flowers are homologous to the staminate flowers of the wild plants and are the result of a homeotic mutation. Furthermore, we consider it unlikely that the homeotic mutation resulting in the development of the anomalous, showy pistillate inflorescences occurred in cultivation because without such inflorescences the plants would be non-descript and of little horticultural interest. The plant is a worthy subject for future research on hometic mutations, floral development, and gene expression.
2807652|An index to 360 names based on specimens collected from 1898 to 1901 by H. H. Smith in Santa Marta, Colombia is provided. Each citation includes the plant name, author, place of publication, exact locality and date of collection, and, when possible, the location of the holotype and isotypes. Additional comments are provided to clarify the type status of specimens representing a single taxon and given a single collection number but collected on several different dates or from several different localities, and for truly mixed collections where two or more taxa were given the same number.
2806029|Sematophyllum caespitosum, shown to be based on a pre-Hedwigian name, is properly called S. subpinnatum (Brid.) Britt. Leskea caespitosa Hedw. is transferred into Acroporium with S. lamprophyllum Mitt. as a synonym. Acroporium lamprophyllum Mitt. is transferred to Thrichosteleum and Acroporium is lectotypified with A. brevicuspidatum Mitt. Leskea longirostris Brid. is also transferred to Acroporium and S. sericifolium Mitt. is a synonym. Hypnum leptochaeton Schwaegr. is transferred from its current placement in Rhaphidorrhynchium into Ectropothecium and replaces E. apaculatum Mitt.
2807193|Herbarium, field, and garden observations of the Potentilla drummondii complex result in the recognition of three subspecies: P. drummondii subsp. drummondii, subsp. bruceae, and subsp. breweri, the last being a new combination. Other possible segregates, P. breweri var. viridis and P. millefolia var. algida, are discussed and rejected as distinct taxa. Specimens from thw White Mountains of California previously annotated as subsp. bruceae, however, are recognized as a new species, P. morefieldii, more closely related to P. concinna. A description, illustration, and key are provided.
3218517| Six Mexican species of Acourtia are described. One of these novelties seems to be related to Acourtia mexicana (Lag. ex D. Don) H. Rob., whose nomenclature has been misunderstood for decades; an exhaustive literature review and examination of herbarium material supports Robinson's combination. /// [Spanish]Se describen seis nuevas especies mexicanas de Acourtia. Una de estas novedades parece estar relacionada con Acourtia mexicana (Lag. ex D. Don) H. Robinson, especie cuya nomenclatura ha sido mal interpretada por dcadas; una exhaustiva revisin de la literatura as como de material de herbario, apoyan la combinacin de Robinson. 
23254245|Three new species of the genus Stelis from Mexico are described and illustrated; they were recently collected in the Tacana volcano region of Chiapas, and are named as S. annedamoniae, S. hagsateri, and S. soconuscana. For each species information is provided about habitat, phenology, and conservation status, and the relationships with similar taxa are discussed. Stelis andamoniae is similar to S. hagsateri and both are sympatric at the Tacana volcano; they are members of the Stelis argentata complex. The first has red-wine flowers, and glabrous sepals, while S. hagsateri has greenish-yellow flowers and glandular-papillose sepals. Stelis soconuscana is similar to S. bidentata, from which it is different by its broader leaves, raceme as long as the leaf, smaller flowers, and its distribution.
2805982|Vernonia rigiophylla Schultz-Bip. ex Baker is a later homonym of V. rigiophylla DC. and therefore a new name, Vernonia elsieae, is proposed for this species.
2806334|Type specimens of fern, gymnosperm and monocotyledon taxa described as new by Otto Kuntze in his Revisio Generum Plantarum Vols. I and II (1891) and Vol. III (1898) known to be in the herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden (NY) are listed. Specimens for all of the new taxa were not found at NY.
2806417|Joseph Nelson Rose (1862-1928) was a very retiring, hardworking individual whose "Leitmotif" was botany. Trips to Mexico with Edward Palmer aroused in him an interest in the Cactaceae and Leguminosae, an interest that would eventually lead him to work with Nathaniel Lord Britton on these groups. The correspondence here discussed, pertaining to their years of collaboration, provides insight into their taxonomic concepts and decisions, especially their generic segregations.
2805557|The genus Gonocalyx, hitherto known from Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, Dominica, and Colombia is recorded from Central America. Two species are descriged from Costa Rica, one (G. costaricensis) is new to science. A Key to the seven species of the genus is provided.
2807154|The new combination, Disteganthus lateralis, is coined based on Aechmea lateralis. An illustration for this species is provided.
2805604|The first species of Jubelina known from Central America is named Jubelina wilburi, described, illustrated, and compared with its nearest relative, J. uleana of Peru.
2805677|The genus Barkeria (Orchidaceae) consists of four species and eight subspecies (the treatment includes a key) of epiphytic plants endemic to Mexico and Central America. Barkeria is separated from the genus Epidendrum on the structure of the rostellum and column in the flower, plus shape of the pseudobulbs. The authors seggest that Barkeria is most closely related to Caularthron based on the general shape of the flowers, widely spreading fleshy column wings, and structure of the rostellum.
2807043|Triolena, a genus of approximately 20 to 25 species, is largely confined to wet forest habitats from southern Mexico southward to the lower Andean slopes and upper Amazon drainage of Bolivia. In Costa Rica, where T. hirsuta has been the only species recorded for decades, recent exploration has brought to light collections of two additional species. Triolena pumila, a new species, is described and illustrated and a northern range extension is reported for T. spicata, a species formerly known from Panama and Colombia. All three species are treated in the context of a regional summary with a key, distribution map, descriptions, brief discussions, and citation of representative specimens.
2805796|Five new entites of Eriogonum are described from Baja California Sur, Mexico, Including one species, E. preclarum, and four varieties of other species: E. fasciculatum var. emphereium, E. wrightii var. oresbium, E. elongatum var. areorivum, and E. grande var. testudinum. Three combinations are proposed: E. wrightii var. dentatum, E. elongatum var. vollmeri, and E. repens.
2806817|Eupatorium steelei, endemic to the southern Appalachian Mountains, is described, illustrated, and discussed. It clearly belongs to section Verticillata, where it is most closely related to E. purpureum.
2805584|Lithophytum violaceum Brandegee, until recently known only from a single Mexican collection, has been considered anomalous since it was first described in 1911. This genus was originally assigned to the Solanaceae, but our reexamination of it shows that this relationship is highly unlikely. A plant of xeric habit with small emarginate leaves, it is different from any other known genus. The flowers have five sepals, and the sympetalous corolla is companulate or salverform. The five equal epipetalous stamens surround a unilocular ovary with two parietal anatropous ovules. Style and stigma are absent, and the locule of the ovary is exposed to the outside by an apical pore. The wood, young stem, leaf, floral anatomy, and pollen were studied in detail, and the aggregate of morphological features accords well with the Verbenaceae.
4099035| Columnea lariensis is described and illustrated as a new species from the Talamanca Mountains, Costa Rica. It is similar to C. canarina from Panama. Alloplectus weirii is here reported for the first time from Mesoamerica and an illustration is provided. /// Columnea lariensis de la Cordillera de Talamanca, Costa Rica, es descrita e ilustrada. Es similar a C. canarina de Panam. Alloplectus weirii se reporta para Mesoamrica por primera vez y se incluye una ilustracin de la misma. 
2807173|A new veriety of Draba oreibata, var. serpentina, is described, illustrated, and discussed.
2805459|Arctostaphylos viscida Parry and A. nissenana Merriam were studied in Eldorado County, California, to check reports in the literature of hybridization between the two. Population samples were collected near Diamond Springs, where they occur sympatrically. A population sample of pure. A viscida, collected elsewhere, and miscellaneous herbarium specimens of A. nissenana, were used for comparison. Data from analysis of six character differences, presented as pictorialized scatter diagrams and histograms, clearly indicate hybridization and backcrossind in the Diamond Springs populations; but we do not agree with Knight (1966) that the A. nissenana populations of this area are hybridized as a whole. Our data do not support Jepson's (1939) opinion that the type of A. nissenana may be of hybrid origin between A. viscida and A. nissenana var arcana Jeps.
3218396|Reported in this paper is a karyomorphological study on one natural population of each of eight varieties in the Spiraea japonica complex. The interphase and mitotic prophase can be classified into the simple chromocenter type and the proximal type, respectively. The metaphase karyotypes of the eight varieties were formulated as follows: S. japonica var. japonica: 2n = 18 = 14m + 2sm + 2st; S. japonica var. acuta: 2n = 18 = 11m + 4sm + 3st; S. japonica var. incisa: 2n = 18 = 12m + 4sm + 2st; S. japonica var. stellaris: 2n = 18 = 15m + 1sm + 2st; S. japonica var. acuminata: 2n = 18 = 14m + 2sm + 2st; S. japonica var. ovalifolia: 2n = 18 = 10m + 2sm + 2st + 4t; S. japonica var. glabra: 2n = 18 = 10m + 4sm + 4st; S. japonica var. fortunei: 2n = 36 - 17m + 16sm + 3st. Karyomorphological study reveals that the chromosome numbers within the complex are stable, and that karyomorphological divergence between the varieties lies mainly in chromosome size and organization. Based on the karyomorphological data and geographical distribution of the complex, the differentiation pattern as well as evolutionary mechanism of the complex is evaluated.
3218509|Two new genera of Gesneriaceae are described, Lampadaria and Cremersia, each with one new species: Lampadaria rupestris from Guyana and Cremersia platula from French Guiana, both belonging to the tribe Episcieae. The placement of Lembocarpus in the Episcieae near Cremersia and Rhoogeton is proposed.
2806833|Three new species of Selaginella are described from the Guayana Highland of Venezuela: S. cardiphylla, S. hemicardia and S. pruskiana. They are illustrated and the relationships of each are discussed. Another species, provisionally determined as S. terezoana, is reported for the first time from Guyana.
3218515|During the preparation of a treatment of the Rubiaceae for the Guide to the Vascular Plants of Central French Guiana, several field and laboratory observations have contributed toward a better understanding of the morphological variation of certain species of Psychotria and have stimulated a reevaluation of some morphological features used by previous authors in distinguishing taxa in the Psychotria. Typification for all taxa is provided, several new synonyms and one new combination, Psychotria carapichea (Poir.) Delprete, are proposed, and illustrations of P. ligularis and P. carapichea are included.
40648181|The Elaphoglossum ciliatum group was supported by a previous study as monophyletic on the basis of cpDNA sequence data. The present paper provides a monograph of this group. It includes keys, full synonymy, descriptions, specimens examined, index to collectors' names and numbers, photographs, and distribution maps for all species. Morphologically, these species are characterized by abaxial laminar scales reduced to minute dots, resinous rhizomes, and (except for E. dussii) spiny perispores. These characteristics are not unique to the E. ciliatum group because they are found in other species of Elapholgossum sect. Lepidoglossa. Nine species are here recognized in the E. ciliatum group, with no subspecies or varieties. Six species are neotropical and primarily montane, being largely absent from Amazonia. The remaining three species are endemic to the island of St. Helena in the South Atlantic Ocean. A lectoype is designated for E. calaguala. Se presenta la monografa del grupo de Elaphoglossum ciliatum, un grupo definido como monofiltico basado en anlisis de secuencias de ADN del cloroplasto. La monografa incluye claves, sinonimia completa, descripciones, especmenes examinados, un ndice de colectores y sus nmeros de coleccin, fotografas y mapas de distribucin de todas las especies del grupo. Las especies de este grupo se caracterizan por tener las escamas de la superficie abaxial de la lmina reducidas a puntos muy pequeos, rizomas resinosos y (exceptuando E. dussii) perisporas equinadas. Sin embargo estas caractersticas no son nicas al grupo de E. ciliatum, y pueden encontrarse en otras especies de Elapholgossum sect. Lepidoglossa. Se reconocen nueve especies en el grupo de E. ciliatum, sin subespecies ni variedades. Seis especies son neotropicales y principalmente de regiones de montaa. El resto de las especies son endmicas de la isla de St. Helena en el sur del ocano Atlntico. Se designa un lectotipo para E. calaguala.
2805602|Descriptions are given for five new taxa of Ericaceae-Cavendishia gentryi Luteyn, C. morii Luteyn, C. melastomoides var. coloradensis Luteyn, Gonocalyx almedae Luteyn, and Empedoclesia stipitata, Luteyn. Recently collected flowering material of Cavendishia pseudostenophylla Luteyn is also described.
2806044|Recent generic realignments of the perennial grasses of the tribe Triticeae necessitate some new name combinations for North American species. Three new species combinations and three new subspecies combinations are made to accommodate six long-an-thered and usually cross-pollinating species of Agropyron sensu A. S. Hitchcock in the genus Elytrigia sensu N. N. Tzvelev. Three new species combinations are made to accommodate three long-anthered and usually cross-pollinating species of Elymus sensu A. S. Hitchcock in the genus Leymus sensu N. N. Tzvelev. A complete listing is given of the North American species and subspecies of Elytrigia and Leymus as I Perceive them.
2805502| 1.- Bigelowia pyramidata Rob. & Greenm. from Oaxaca proves to be a dioecious plant and is therefore transferred to the genus Baccharis. 2.- Baccharis matudae sp. nov. is described on the basis of material collected in Zacatecas and San Luis Potos. The species is closely related to B. pyramidata (Rob. & Greenm.) Rzedowski. 3.- Baccharis zamoranensis sp. nov. is described on the basis of material collected on the border of Quertaro and Guanajuato. The taxon is related to B. multiflora H.B.K., known from central and southern Mexico. 
4497376|Chromosome numbers for a total of 54 individuals representing 13 genera and 40 species of Cactaceae, mostly in tribe Trichocereeae, are reported. Five additional taxa examined belong to subfamily Opuntioideae and other tribes of Cactoideae (Browningieae, Pachycereeae, Notocacteae, and Cereeae). Among Trichocereeae, counts for 35 taxa in eight genera are reported, with half of these (17 species) for the genus Haageocereus. These are the first chromosome numbers reported for 36 of the 40 taxa examined, as well as the first counts for the genus Haageocereus. Both diploid and polyploid counts were obtained. Twenty nine species were diploid with 2n=2x=22. Polyploid counts were obtained from the genera Espostoa, Cleistocactus, Haageocereus, and Weberbauerocereus; we detected one triploid (2n=3x=33), nine tetraploids (2n=4x=44), one hexaploid (2n=6x=66), and three octoploids (2n=8x=88). In two cases, different counts were recorded for different individuals of the same species (Espostoa lanata, with 2n=22, 44, and 66; and Weberbauerocereus rauhii, with 2n=44 and 88). These are the first reported polyploid counts for Haageocereus, Cleistocactus, and Espostoa. Our counts support the hypothesis that polyploidy and hybridization have played prominent roles in the evolution of Haageocereus, Weberbauerocereus, and other Trichocereeae.
2806980|Carl Friedrich Meisner (1800-1874) described 186 new taxa in Polygonum in his series of publications. This paper provides the list of type specimens of Polygonum found in the Meisner herbarium at the New York Botanical Garden. One hundred fifty-eight types and possible types representing 108 Polygonum taxa described by Meisner have been located.
4497372|Listera fugongensis, a new species from Yunnan, China, is described and illustrated. The new species is probably related to Listera nipponica, but differs from it by having green flowers, petals slightly wider than lateral sepals, and a toothed lip with ciliate margins.
2806664|A history is presented of the use and misuse of the binomials, Rumex maritimus and R. persicarioides. In light of single-character separation of the taxa, an alternative to current taxonomic usage is proposed. This treatment recognizes on species (R. maritimus, by prior choice) with two New World varieties. One change in status is made.
3218386|We restrict the genus Lipochaeta to the allopolyploid species of the typical section. Lipochaeta s.str. is interpreted to be the result of an intergeneric hybridization between Melanthera and a presently unknown taxon, perhaps of the genus Wedelia. Lipochaeta is characterized, in addition to its allopolyploidy (n = 26), by having both flavonols and flavones, disk corollas with 4 lobes, achenes tuberculate at maturity, the disk achenes flattened to slightly biconvex, and ray achenes ob-compressed. Lipochaeta sect. Aphanopappus and Wollastonia are here reduced to synonymy under Melanthera. We transfer 14 Hawaiian Lipochaeta and one New Caledonian species as well as the Asian Wedelia prostrata to Melanthera. These transfers, along with the species in Africa and North America, bring the number of species in the genus to 35. Melanthera is delimited by an abruptly narrowed to truncate and flattened top of the achene, (0-)1-15(-20) often unequal, ciliate or barbellate, caducous pappus bristles immediately surrounding the corolla, involucral bracts and receptacular paleae with many veins forming longitudinal striations, and n = 15. The florets are 5-merous, the corollas are yellow or white, and rays are absent (in white-flowered species) or present and neutral or fertile. In dealing with species formerly placed in Lipochaeta, the Galapagos L. laricifolia is here transferred from the illegitimate generic name Macraea to Trigonopterum and the Brazilian L. goyazensis is transferred to Angelphytum. We maintain the earlier reduction of Echinocephalum under Melanthera and reduce all three taxa originally described in it to one, M. latifolia.
2806167|This supplement to a bibliography published in 1973 lists 112 new references on Galapagos botany. The availability of accurate information in a new flora of the Galapagos Islands has brought about an increase in botanical research. Very little new work has been done on cryptogams. Many recent studies concentrate on ecology and conservation of the unique Galapagos plants.
2805632|Chromosome counts are presented for 217 species of 103 genera of grasses from Costa Rica. Four of the genera and 90 of the species are reported for the first time. In addition, 26 counts differe from previous records for the same taxon. The genera Gynerium, Lithachne, Luziola, and Thrasya were heretofore unknown cytologically. First counts are also given for the following species: Agrostis bacillata, A. pittieri, A. Subpatens, Andropogon angustatus, A. bicornis, A. virgatus, Aristida capillacea, A. jorullensis, Arundinella berteroniana, A. deppeana, Axonopus aureus, A. capillaris, A. chrysoblepharis, Bouteloua americana, B. disticha, Bromus exaltatus, Calamagrostis intermedia, C. nuda, C. pittieri, Chusquea lehmannii, C. tonduzii, Cinna poaeformis, Deschampsia pringlei, Digitaria panicea, Echinochloa polystachya, Echinolaena gracilis, Eragrostis simpliciflora, Eriochla distachya, E. polystachya, Eriochrysis cayennensis, Festuca dolichophylla, Gymnopogon fastigiatus, Gynerium sagittatum, Hymenachne amplexicaulis, Imperata contracta, Isachne polygonoides, Ischaemum latifolium, Lithachne pauciflora, Luziola fragilis, Manisuris aurita, Panicum aquaticum, P. arundinariae, P. boliviense, P. cordovense, P. grande, P. haenkeanum. P. milleflorum, P. parviglume, P. pilosum, P. polygonatum, P. rudgei, P. stenodes, P. trichanthum, P. trichoides, P. viscidellum, Paspalum candidum, P. centrale, P. decumbens, P. fasciculatum, P. jimenezii, P. microstachyum, P. multicauel, P. nutans, P. parviflorum. P. pilosum, P. prostratum, P. pumilum, P. reclinatum. P. sacharoides, P. scabrum, P. serratum, P. squamulatum, P. standleyi, Pennisetum bambusiforme, P. distachyum, Pereilema beyrichianum, Pharus parvifolius, Saciolepis myuros, Schizachyrium condensatum, Sorghastrum incompletum, Sporobolus ciliatus, S. purpurascens, Streptochaeta sodiroana, Thrasya gracilis, T. petrosa, T. robusta, Trisetum pringlei, T. tonduzii, Uniola pittieri, and Zeugites pittieri. In addition, the following counts are different from previous records for the same taxon: Aegopogon cenchroides, Axonopus poiophyllus, Bouteloua media, Brachiaria plantaginea, Chusquea subtessellata, Digitaria adscendens, Homolepis aturensis, Hymenachne donacifolia, Ichnanthus axillaris, I. pallens, I. tenuis, Ischaemum ciliare, Ixophorus unisetus, Oplismenus burmannii, O. hirtellus, Panicum geminatum, P. glutinosum, P. mertensii, P. parvifolium, P. sellowii, Paspalum convexum, Pennisetum nervosum, P. setosum, Polypogon elongatus, Raddia costaricensis, Schizachyrium hirtiflorum.
2806462|Senecio moranii, Senecio martirensis, and Senecio semperamatae, all from Mexico, are described as new.
2807585|A new species, Symplocos incahuasensis Sagst. & Dillon, is described and Illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. A key to the small-leaved Peruvian species is provided.
2807384| Campomanesia espiritosantensis Landrum is described from the coastal forests of Esprito Santo, Brazil. Its relationship to other species in the genus is discussed. 
2805442|Maranthes, a genus well known in Africa and Asia, has not been recorded previously in the New World. Couepia panamensis, thought to be endemic to Panama, was found to be synonymous with Maranthes corymbosa, a widespread Asiatic species, and it is reduced into synonymy, making the first American record of Maranthes. The relationship of Maranthes to Couepia, and the unusual distribution of M. corymbosa are discussed.
2806282|The new genus Pranceacanthus, apparently most closely related to the bitypic genus Juruasia, is described and illustrated. Its sole species, P. coccineus, has been collected on "terra firma" in lowland Amazonian Brazil in the states of Amazonas and Mato Grosso and in the territory of Rondonia.
2805608|Arguments are developed in favor of changed names for 4 common American casias; if accepted, C. tagera auct. (vix Linneaus) becomes C. kunthiana Chamisso & Schlechtendhal; C. fasciculata Michaux becomes C. chamaecrista Linnaeus; C. hispidula Vahl becomes C. tetraphylla Martyn; and C. tetraphylla Desvaux becomes C. desvauxii Colladon.
2805640|Some of the important vegetative characters of amentiferous families described in research papers concerned with interfamilial relationships and published since 1947-1948 are briefly summarized. Important conclusions by the writers are also reviewed. Thus, Bataceae are considered derivatives of the Centrospermae; Betulaceae, Casuarinaceae, and Ulmaceae are hamamelidaceous derivatives; Garryaceae and Cornaceae are closely related; and Julianiaceae and Anacardiaceae are plausible relatives. A more extensive tabulation of vegetative characters of essentially all amentiferous and ranalean families and Dilleniaceae is also presented, and the data are utilized to compare the percentages of advanced and primitive characters in these same taxa. The logic for considering trends whose evolutionary directions were initiated previous or incidental to angiospermous origin as more valid than other evolutionary trends is offered. The following principal conclusions are based upon the analysis of the tabulation: (1) the Amentifeare have sufficient advanced vegetative characters to preclude consideration of them as earliest angiosperms or their direct derivatives unless a large number of primitive features of other sorts offers strong counter evidence; (2) they also have sufficient primitive characters to discount the concept that they are highly evolved; (3) most Amentiferae clearly possess many more advanced vegetative characters than do most Magnoliales, Laurales, Trochodendrales, or Dilleniaceae; and (4) relationships of several Amentiferae to various, unrelated angiospermous families have been demonstrated.
30219387|Three new species of Elaphoglossum are described from the Guianas: E. arachnidoideum, E. boudriei, and E. cremersii.
2806986|Biophytum cowanii, a new species of Oxalidaceae from the Uxpanapa area of extreme southern Veracruz, Mexico, is closely related to the Panamanian B. mucronatum. The genera Anaxagorea (Annonaceae), Marila (Guttiferae), Martinella (Bignoniaceae), Napeanthus (Gesneriaceae), and Sorocea (Moraceae) are documented for the first time for the Mexican flora based on collections from the Uxpanapa area.
2805933|A new apiaceous species of the genus Acronema Falc. ex Edgew. is described from the central Himalayas. Its affinities with other closely allied species of Acronema, such as A. tenerum (DC.) Edgew. and A. hookeri (Cl.) Wolff are briefly discussed.
2806292|Primula alcalina, endemic to east-central Idaho, is described and illustrated. Closely related to P. incana, it differs in having smaller flowers that are white instead of lilac, and a much lower chromosome number (n = 9).
3218334|Three new neotropical species of subulate-scaled Elaphoglossum are described and illustrated: E. minutissimum, E. rosettum, E. semisubulatum. The first occurs in Costa Rica, the second and third in Bolivia.
2805642|The systematic value of various kinds of chemical constituents reported from Amentiferae is discussed in terms of chemical structural complexity and restricted distribution. Chemical evidence suggests the cohesiveness of Urticales, excluding Eucommiaceae. It also suggests that Garryaceae, Platanaceae, and Myricaceae are distinct from other families of Amentiferae. The absence of reports of elaborate, restricted natural product structural types in Betulaceae, Fagaceae, Casuarinaceae, Juglandaceae, and Salicaceae means that there is no positive chemical evidence suggesting relatedness of these core families of Amentifeare.
2805559|Morphological, cytological, and paper chromatographic studies of populations from northern Michigan and examination of herbarium specimens from throughout North America were used to clarify the relationships of Goodyera oblongifolia, G. repens var. ophioides, and G. tesselata. A Canonical analysis of morphological data from mixed populations of these three species depicts G. tesselata as intermediate between G. oblongifolia and G. repens var. ophioides. The latter two species are diploid (2n=30) and G. tesselata is tetraploid (2n=60). Triploids (2n-ca. 45) were found in two mixed-species populations in northern Michigan. Goodyera tesselata produces three phenolic compounds present in G. oblongifolia and five different compounds present in G. repens var. ophioides. The range of G. tesselata is confined to glaciated territory (except for two stations) in northeastern North America where the postglacially produced ranges of G. oblongifolia and G. repens var. ophioides overlap. However, G. tesselata is quite aboundant in areas outside the region of sympatry of the other two species. Based on this evidence, it is postulated that G. tesselata is an allotetraploid species which resulted from hybridization between G. oblongifolia and G. repens var. ophioides during early post-Pleistocene. The slightly earlier blooming season of G. tesselata may have been selected for to provide a measure of reproductive isolation between the tetraploid and its parents and to adapt the new species to the rather short growing season of northeastern North America.
23254270|The monotypic Cuban endemic genus Euleria (Anacardiaceae) is shown to be a species of Picrasma and the new combination, Picrasma tetramera, is made. Also, a misapplication of the name Picrasma cubensis is corrected. Complete descriptions and illustrations are presented for both P. tetramera and P. cubensis, as is a key to the Cuban genera of Simaroubaceae and species of Picrasma. Se demuestra que el gnero monotpico y endmico cubano, Euleria (Anacardiaceae), es en realidad una especie de Picrasma (Simaroubaceae). Adicionalmente, una nueva combinacin, Picrasma tetramera, es presentada y la errnea aplicacin del nombre Picrasma cubensis es discutida. Descripciones completas con ilustraciones son presentadas para Picrasma tetramera y Picrasma cubensis, junto con una clave para los gneros cubanos de Simaroubaceae y para las especies cubanas de Picrasma.
2805556|Review of the history and gross morphology of Chamaecrista, a long controversial segregate from Cassia Linn., reveals behind specious arguments presented in the past a strong theoretical case for generic status; but only in such case that the concept of Chamaecrista be expanded to equivalence with the subgenus Lasiorhegma Benth., of which it has been considered a part.
40980936|Eleocharis cryptica (Cyperaceae), known from pine-oak forest in Durango, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It belongs to Eleocharis subg. Eleocharis ser. Tenuissimae and can be distinguished by its diminutive size, with culms 213 mm long (including spikelets 1.31.7 mm long), and the folliform prolongations of its upper sheaths.It is the smallest species of Eleocharis thus far known. Se describe e ilustra Eleocharis cryptica (Cyperaceae), de bosque de pinoencino en el estado de Durango, Mxico. Pertenece a Eleocharis subg. Eleocharis ser. Tenuissimae y se distingue por su diminuto tamao, con tallos 213 mm de largo incluyendo las espiguillas de 1.31.7 mm de largo, as como por la prolongacin de la vaina superior folliforme. Es la especie ms pequea de Eleocharis que se conoce hasta ahora
2806728|Nine new species of Elaphoglossum are described from southern and western Mexico: E. alan-smithii, E. decursivum, E. dissitifrons, E. leonardii, E. lepidopodum, E. mcvaughii, E. parduei, E. rzedowskii, and E. seminudum.
2805697|Two population groups of the California species Clarkia deflexa appear to have developed an effective internal barrier to gene exchange. The data indicate that this barrier is the result of genetic and cytoplasmic differences operating during the early stages of embryo development. The occurrence of such a situation appears to be rare between populations so slightly differentiated as to be considered conspecific.
2805956|The taxonomy and phytogeography of two pairs of vicarious cypripediums, C. reginae Walt. and C. flavum Hunt & Summerh., and C. arietinum R. Br. and C. plectrochilon Franchet, are discussed. They are all distinct species, though there exist close relationships between the members of each pair. Or phytogeographic interest are the strong resemblance of distribution patterns of these two pairs of vicarious species, the similarity of their habitats, and the fact that all are rather primitive members in the genus.
2807472|Povedadaphne quadriporata is described and illustrated. Its possible relationships are suggested. The problems of specific and generic delimitation in Lauraceae are discussed from the viewpoint of a study of Costa Rica's nearly 100 species.
2666603|A hypothesis is presented that most pteridophytes arrived in New Zealand relatively recently, by long-distance dispersal. The flora comprises 194 native species, of which 89 (46%) are endemic and 105 (54%) are widespread. Of the latter, 90% are shared with temperate Australasia, 53% with tropical regions, 14% with temperate southern Africa and 13% with the circum-Antarctic islands and South America. New Zealand has undergone such dramatic changes in location, land area, and topography since initial separation from Gondwana 85 Ma that it seems improbable that the 95 species shared with temperate Australasia could have remained conspecific throughout that time. Modern fossil and molecular evidence strongly suggest that many families of ferns had not even evolved prior to separation, and palynological evidence from New Zealand indicates that 78% of pteridophyte genera first appeared there only after separation from Gondwana. Present-day distributions in New Zealand suggest that ferns have greater dispersal potential than flowering plants, and that pteridophyte distributions are more heavily influenced by temperature, rainfall, and geothermal activity than by geological history. Most endemic pteridophyte species have a predominantly southern distribution pattern and are characteristic of cool, lowland to montane forest. Pteridophytes in the northern part of New Zealand show a lower level of endemism than elsewhere and tend to be wide-spread species that have arrived from temperate Australasian and tropical regions. There is also evidence that at least some pteridophytes have migrated from New Zealand to Australia. It is suggested that the hypothesis of long-distance dispersal of pteridophytes across the Tasman Sea could be tested by molecular techniques.
4098950|Astragalus lentiginosus is a polymorphic species that occurs in geologically young habitats and whose varietal circumscription implies active morphological and genetic differentiation. In this preliminary study, we evaluate the potential of amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers to resolve infraspecific taxa in three varieties of Astragalus lentiginosus. Distance-based principle coordinate and neighbor-joining analyses result in clustering of individuals that is congruent with population origin and varietal circumscription. Analysis of molecular variance of two Oregon varieties demonstrates that varietal categories account for 11% of the total variance; in contrast, geographic proximity does not contribute to the total variance. AFLPs demonstrate an ability to discriminate varieties of A. lentiginosus despite a potentially confounding geographic pattern, and may prove effective at inferring relationships throughout the group.
30218783|Heterosavia (Phyllanthaceae) is segregated from Savia (tribe Bridelieae), recognized at generic rank, and placed in tribe Phyllantheae. Floral, fruit, leaf anatomical, leaf venation, and pollen characters of the neotropical taxa previously united as Savia including Gonatogyne are discussed and illustrated. Keys to the three genera and to the species of Heterosavia are presented. Four species (all new combinations), Heterosavia bahamensis, H. erythroxyloides, H. laurifolia, and H. maculata, are recognized. The new combinations Heterosavia laurifolia var. intermedia and H. maculata var. clementis are proposed. The names Heterosavia, H. erythroxyloides, H. laurifolia, Savia clementis, S. clusiifolia, S. clusiifolia var. fallax, and S. longipes are lectotypified. Distribution maps and conservation assessments (IUCN ratings) of Heterosavia species and varieties are provided.
40648102|Seventy-three species from 17 genera of Cyperaceae were studied with the aim of identifying and confirming those species with Kranz anatomy. Among the species studied, 36 exhibited Kranz anatomy; 37 did not. Of the four types of Kranz anatomy recognized in Cyperaceae, three were encountered: the chlorocyperoid type in the genera Cyperus, Kyllinga, Lipocarpha, Pycreus, and Remirea; the fimbristyloid type in Abildgaardia, Bulbostylis, and Fimbristylis; and the rhynchosporoid type in Rhynchospora. Non-Kranz anatomy was confirmed in species of the following genera: Becquerelia, Calyptrocarya, Cyperus, Diplacrum, Eleocharis, Fuirena, Hypolytrum, Pleurostachys, Rhynchospora, and Scleria. The anatomical data obtained corroborate earlier studies of species of Cyperaceae as to the presence of Kranz anatomy and the anatomical types in several species and the "Kranzkette" pattern in Cyperus ligularis and Cyperus pohlli. Setenta e trs espcies pertencentes a 17 gneros de Cyperaceae foram estudadas com o objetivo de identificar e confirmar espcies com anatomia Kranz. Entre as espcies estudadas, 36 exibem anatoma Kranz e 37 no. Dos quatro tipos de anatomia Kranz reconhecidos em Cyperaceae, trs foram encontrados: o tipo clorociperide nos gneros Cyperus, Kyllinga, Lipocarpha, Pycreus e Remirea; o fimbristilide em Abildgaardia, Bulbostylis e Fimbristylis; e o tipo rincosporide em Rhynchospora. Anatomia no Kranz foi confirmada em espcies dos seguintes gneros: Becquerelia, Calyptrocarya, Cyperus, Diplacrum, Eleocharis, Fuirena, Hypolytrum, Pleurostachys, Rhynchospora e Scleria. Os dados anatmicos obtidos corroboram recentes estudos para espcies de Cyperaceae, como a presena da anatomia Kranz e do tipo anatmico em vrias espcies e o padro "Kranzkette" em Cyperus ligularis e Cyperus pohlli.
2805274|Vegetative, floral and fruit anatomy and morphology of Uldinia, a monotypic hydrocotyloid genus endemic to Australia, are described in detail. These observations, when compared to available reports for other genera of Hydrocotyloideae, indicate that Uldinia is most closely allied to members of Hydrocotyleae Hydrocotylinae, and, in particular, to Trachymene. Similarities between these two genera include such anatomical and morphological characteristics as habit and leaf morphology, stem anatomy, trichome anatomy, inflorescence morphology, floral morphology, and several details of the floral venation pattern and fruit anatomy. Nevertheless, the nature and development of the fruit wings, the papillae and retrorse barbs of the fruit, the absence of a carpophore, the differences in floral venation at the commissure and in the upper portion of the mericarp, and the orientation of fibers in the endocarp, all provide a basis for the generic distinctness of Uldinia. These comparative studies also point to the need for a possible re-evalua-tion of relationships within the subtribes of Hydrocotyleae.
2807732|A new species from the Mexican state of Morelos, Malaxis lyonnetii, is described and illustrated. It is similar to M. lepanthiflora but is distinguished by its much smaller flowers, distally uncinate basal lip lobes, and entire, rounded apical lip lobe.
2666623|Acisanthera leptalea, a new species known only from Noel Kempff Mercado National Park, Bolivia, is described, illustrated, and compared with its presumed closest relatives, A. hedyotidea and A. tetramera, and five other species known from Bolivia. It is assigned to section Dicrananthera which now comprises three species characterized by sessile or subsessile leaves, 4-merous, solitary flowers, and bilocular ovaries.
2807498|A new species, Zanthoxylum hamadryadicum, is described, illustrated and compared to its closest relatives. It is unique in its small leaves and leaflets, which densely stellate-pilose, and its short racemes crowded on new shoots with 4-merous flowers. A new combination, Zanthoxylum hasslerianum (Chodat) Pirani, and some new synonyms among Brazilian species are proposed.
2805513|The genus Sabazia is expanded to include the genus Tricarpha, Calea palmeri, and several newly described taxa, S. tridacoides var. tridacoides and var. latifolia, S. palmeri var. lancifolia, and S. longiradiata. Comparative studies of several morphological features suggest that Sabazia is most clearly related to Selloa and Galinsoga. Karyological data reinforce this observation: in Selloa and Galinsoga x=8 whereas in Sabazia x=4 and n=4, 8, 16, or 24. Several species of Calea are very similar to Sabazia in floral features and may be of close phyletic affinity, but most species of Calea differ conspicuously, suggesting more remote relationships. Other taxa in the Galinsoginae apparently fairly closely allied to Sabazia include Oteiza and Tridax.
3218454| Grindelia coronensis, a new species from the Meseta del Somuncura, Prov. Ro Negro, Argentina, is described and illustrated. It is similar to G. chiloensis (Cornel.) Cabrera but it is readily distinguished by its leaves which are conspicuosly differentiated into a obovate blade and a long petiole. 
2805715|A small number of supposed $F_1$ hybrids was discovered in an isolated sympatric population of P. parryi (n = 17) and P. rupestris var. albiflora (n = 17) in the Chisos Mts. of Texas. Although the parental species are morphologically quite distinct, being assigned to separate taxonomic sections of Perityle, their hybrids displayed relatively high fertility. Origin of the presumed natural hybrids was documented by the production of artificial hybrids between P. parryi and P. rupestris var. albiflora. Fertility data based on pollen stainability were accumulated for the available natural hybrids, and for artificial hybrids through $F_3$ and backcross generations. A brief discussion of biosystematic implications is included.
2806852|Allagoptera brevicalyx from Bahia, Brazil, is described. It is compared to other species of Allagoptera and also to Polyandrococos.
2805835|Torulinium correllii is described as new, and its phylogenetic significance with respect to the taxonomic relationship between Torulinium and Mariscus discussed.
2806671|Turpinia uliginosa sp. nov. is described as seeds from the Early Oligocene Brandon Lignite. This occurrence represents a considerable dparture from its modern range in the Old and New World tropics. A survey of the previously described fossil seeds and seeds of the modern species suggests that Turpinia uliginosa is most closely related to the Neotropical members of the modern genus. A brief summary is offered of the characters of the modern seeds of Staphylea and Turpinia.
2806857|The type of the Linnaean name Banisteria dichotoma was found to represent a species of stigmaphyllon from northern South America known as S. humboldtianum (DC.) Adr. Juss. The correct name for this species is Stigmaphyllon dichotomum (L.) Griseb. The misapplications of the names B. dichotoma and S. dichotomum are reviewed. A full synonymy and description for S. dichotomum are provided, as well as a key to separate it from four other species of Stigmaphyllon with which it may be confused.
3218543| Graptopetalum is a genus of approximately 17 species of mainly dry habitats from Arizona to Oaxaca. Circumscription of the genus has been problematic. A cladistic analysis was performed based on 39 morphological characters to determine if Graptopetalum constitutes a monophyletic group and to determine the relationships among the species. Results indicate that Graptopetalum is not monophyletic. A large clade that includes most of the species of Graptopetalum is weakly supported. In this clade, two subclades received moderate support, one formed by the acaulescent species and another by the haplostemonous taxa. ///[Spanish]Graptopetalum es un gnero de aproximadamente 17 especies principalmente de zonas ridas desde Arizona hasta Oaxaca. La circunscripcin del gnero ha sido problemtica. En este artculo se Ilev a cabo un anlisis cladstico con base en 39 caracteres morfolgicos para determinar si Graptopetalum constituye un grupo monofiltico y para determinar las relaciones entre sus especies. Los anlisis recobraron un clado dbilmente soportado que incluye a la mayora de las especies de Graptopetalum. Dentro de este clado dos subclados recibieron un soporte moderado, uno formado por las especies acaulescentes y otro por las especies haplostmonas. 
2806794|A new species of Dioon has been found in Oaxaca. It is characterized by Leaflets which are entire, lanceolate but unequally tapering toward the apex and over 10 mm wide at the middle portion of the frond.
2806706|This report includes: a new variety, Indigofera miniata var. florida, and five new combinations, I. mucronata var. keyensis, Robinia hispida var. kelseyi, Tephrosia angustissima var. corallicola, T. angustissima var. curtissii, and T. X floridana.
3218514|Thirteen new species and two new combinations of the genus Stevia are described and illustrated from Mexico: S. chilapensis, S. coahuilensis, S. crassifolia, S. ecatepecana, S. filodecaballoana, S. mascotensis, S. mexicana, S. oaxacana, S. oligophylla, S. potosina, S. rotundifolia, S. scabrelloides, and S. viejoana. In addition, two varieties, Stevia aschenborniana Sch. Bip. ex Klotzsch var. occidentalis Grashoff and S. palmeri A. Gray var. constricta Grashoff are herein redefined as being distinct species, S. occidentalis and S. constricta stat. nov. Stevia mexicana resembles Stevia trifida Lagasca but differs in the habit.
2805511|Draba platycarpa Torrey & Gray has been frequently treated as a variety of D. cuneifolia Nutt. ex Torrey & Gray, but our data indicate that it is sufficiently distinct morphologically to warrant specific recognition. Additionally, the flavonoid profiles and the volatile constituents of the two taxa are markeldy different. The major steam distillates in D. platycarpa are 2-methylpropane nitrile, buty1 isothiocyanate, and propy1 isothiocynate, whereas those of D. cuneifolia include pentadecane, 4-methy1-4-pentenal, 3-hexen-1-ol, and two sesquiterpenes. The former contains both diploid and tetraploid races (x=8), but only tetraploid plants are known for D. cuneifolia.
2806404|Acer sect. and ser. Macrophylla were not validly published until 1962 by Momotani. Acer sect. and ser. Spicata Pax are synonyms of sect. and ser Acer sect. Parviflora Koidz. and ser. Caudata Pax are adopted here for the taxa which include Acer spicatum Lam. and its close relatives. Acer sect. Integrifolia Pax becomes a synonym of sect. Palmata following the lectotypification of Fang, not Murray; sect. Oblonga (Hu & Cheng) Delendick is proposed as a new combination to replace sect. Integrifolia sensu Murray.
41406784|Two species of Leandra that occur in low montane and montane rain forests in the state of Esprito Santo, Eastern Brazil, are described and illustrated here.Leandra magnipetala can be recognized by the pedicellate flowers, costate hypanthia, and large, broadly lanceolate petals. Leandra triantha can be recognized by the apical, short-peduncled triads, diads or solitary flowers and by the granulose-glandulose, strigose and glandulose-strigose bracts, bracteoles, and hypanthia. Duas especies de Leandra que ocorrem em Floresta Ombrfila Densa Submontana e Montana no estado do Esprito Santo so aqu descritas e ilustradas. Leandra magnipetala pode ser reconhecida pelas flores pediceladas, hipanto costado, e pelas ptalas grandes, largamente lanceoladas. Leandra triantha pode ser reconhecida pelas flores em trades, dades ou isoladas, sempre apicais e sobre pednculos curtos, e pelas brcteas, bractolas e hipanto com indumento granuloso-glanduloso, glanduloso e estrigoso.
2806644|Two new species of Manfreda are named, M. longibracteata from Michoacn, Mexico, and M. sileri, a succulent-leaved species from the Rio Grande Valley of Texas and Mexico. Agave hauniensis is transferred to Manfreda.
2806128|Three new monocotyloid Eryngia, E. rochei, E. brasiliense, and E. irwinii from Brazil and Paraguay, are described, illustrated, and contrasted with related taxa.
2807062|Ancillary to my revision of Paullinia, the necessary lectotypifications for Radlkofer's infrageneric names are proposed. Those sectional names requiring lectotypification are Neurotoechus, Diphtherotoechus, Pleurotoechus, Pachytoechus, Xyloptilon, Nuroptilon, Anisoptilon, Isoptilon, Caloptilon, and Phygoptilon. Section Cryptoptilon, monotypic at the time of publication, is typified automatically by P. verrucosa Radlk. The generic names Enourea and Castanella, reduced by Radlkofer to sectional status, retain their types.
2807194|A revision of certain generic boundaries within the tribe Malveae is made. A new genus, Sidasodes, is described with two species, one of which is new, Sidasodes colombiana. Akrosida is segregated as a new genus, based on Bastardia macrophylla. The new realignment also recognizes Tetrasida as a distinct genus, and describes as new Tetrasida serrulata. New combinations include Sidasodes jamesonii (based on Sida jamesonii), Akrodisa macrophylla (based on Bastardia macrophylla), and Tetrasida chachapoyensis (based on Sida chachapoyensis).
2807603|Hibiscus section Furcaria includes more than 60 known taxa. The section has a mainly tropical distribution, but a few species penetrate subtropical and temperate regions. Seven taxa are recognized that occur in the islands of the Pacific Basin, five of which are endemic. Hibiscus fijiensis is described and a new combination, Hibiscus brackenridgei subsp. molokaianus, is proposed.
2807216|A cladistic interpretation of seed plant phylogeny is presented that supports the traditional morphological hypothesis: [Cycadales-(Ginkgoales-(Confiferales-(Gnetales-Angiosperms)))]. Gnetales and Angiosperms are supported as sister groups of the Anaspermae. A sister-group relationship between Coniferales and Ginkgoales represents a paraphyletic group, because Coniferales and Anaspermae share a common ancestry (Mesospermae). Ginkgoales and Mesospermae are sister groups of the Cladospermae. Cycadales are supported as the most archaic Spermatophyta. A posteriori consideration of fossil taxa supports the conclusion that data from the fossil record are useful for confirming plesiomorphies of extant taxa. Fossil taxa with apomorphic character states are discussed as biasing for superficial accelerated transformations, which are probably unacceptable from the standpoint of morphological homology.
2806074|Basic errors are seen in failure to recognize problems of large phyletic gaps, failure to include fossil evidence which might help bridge phyletic gaps, incosistency on transferability of characters between gametophyte and sporophyte, simplistic polarizations not meeting the basic standards of cladistics, and the failure to recognize functional limitations in ancestral forms.
4099019| The objective of this study was to describe a wide spectrum of surface structural and anatomical details of the Chinese brake fern (Pteris vittata) using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). SEM revealed that the epidermal cells of the pinnae were elongated with raised periclinal and sinuous anticlinal walls. The pinnae were hypostomatous with randomly scattered anomocytic stomatal complexes positioned at the same level as the epidermis. Stomates were large and elliptical (27.4 m x 10.2 m). Cross sections from the central regions of the rachis and the stipe revealed V- and U-shaped vascular bundles, respectively. In each vascular bundle, the xylem strands were sea-horse shaped (hippocampus). In contrast, the pinnae possessed a triangular vascular bundle with uniform mesophyll organization comprising of homogenous lobed parenchyma cells. The indumentum consisted of trichomes and scales, which formed various types of vestiture. Trichomes were borne only on the pinnae and scales on the rachis and stipe. The roots developed a dense network of long root hairs averaging 244 m long, and the xylem consisted of tracheids with scalariform pitting. Sori were submarginal; continuous along both margins of the pinna and were covered with a false indusium. The sporangia were oblong with a short thick stalk and the annulus was positioned vertically resulting in transverse dehiscence of the sporangium. The paraphyses were uniseriate, unbranched, septate and found to be intermixed with the sporangia. The exine of the globose spores was adorned with thick reticulum in which the areoles contained round tubercles. This study describes surface features in detail, which is essential to studies examining the issue of whether morphological characteristics are related to arsenic hyperaccumulation in P. vittata. 
2806158|Cheilanthes mickelii from Oaxaca and Chiapas, Mexico is described, illustrated and compared with an apparent near relative, C. tryonii T. Reeves nom. nov.
2807242| The plant collecting trip by H. H. Rusby and R. W. Squires in early 1896 to the lower Ro Orinoco, Venezuela, was sponsored by The Orinoco Company Limited, which was promoted by many residents of Faribault, Rice Co., Minnesota, U.S.A. In February 1896, the company formed an exploring party in order to map a large concession of approximately 10,000,000 acres that they had received from the Venezuelan government and to prospect the mineral deposits, study the vegetation, and ascertain the conditions affecting colonization of the concession. The botanical work was entrusted to Rusby, who, with the assistance of Squires and an unnamed laborer from Trinidad, collected almost 500 numbers of vascular plants in sets as large as thirty-two. Rusby indicated that he spent only 51 days in the field and lost a week of that time to an accident that befell the explorers. He was less constrained than the Minnesotans (who were promoting development), and he wrote that botanical exploration was hampered also by the inundation of the forest and savannahs with each tide, the lack of trails, and the large numbers of annoying insects and poisonous snakes. An annotated catalog of 43 new taxa of vascular plants based on Rusby and Squire's collection is provided. Lectotypes are designated for Tachigalia rusbyi Harms (Fabaceae), Cupania semidentata Radlk. (Sapindaceae), and Solanum sacupanense Rusby (Solanaceae). A gazetteer of the localities cited in Rusby's field book and in publications pertaining to the Orinoco trips is appended. 
2807071| Two new species of Carex (Cyperaceae) are described from southern South America. Carex transandina occurs in naturally-deposited rock talus and scree in southwestern Chile and C. austroamericana occurs in the Patagonian steppe in Chile and Argentina. In the past, specimens of C. austroamericana have been erroneously referred to C. andina var. subabscondita Kk., and it is shown here that the latter entity is conspecific with C. nelmesiana Barros. The taxonomocy of C. nelmesiana is presented and its relationship to other members of Carex sect. Junciformes (Boeckl.) Kk. is discussed. 
2805733|Allium passeyi from Blue Creek Valley of northern Utah, Geranium toquimense from the Toquima Range of central Nevada, and Primula capillaris from the Ruby Mountains of northeastern Nevada are described, illustrated, and compared with their relatives. The three species are narrow endemics.
2805937|Four new species of Asteraceae form Mexico are described: Iostephane papposa, Verbesina costata, Verbesina sousae, and Sabazia trifida. Illustrations of the new species are provided.
2806688|Keys to and descriptions and discussions of the geography and ecology of the six members of the Cnidoscolus tubulosus alliance (Sect. Calyptrosolen) from Central America and Mexico are given. Jatropha tubulosa and J. liebmannii are typified and recircumscribed. Cnidoscolus tehuacanensis from the Tehuacan Valley and C. rostratus Lundell subsp. hintonii and subsp. glabratus from the Rio Balsas Depression are described as new taxa from Mexico.
2805892|A study of greenhouse-grown and field populations of Solanum caripense Humboldt & Bonpland ex Dunal, S. tabanoense Correll, and S. trachycarpum Bitter & Sodiro, all diploid species (n = 12) of high altitudes of southern Central America and northern South America, revealed great morphological variation. Polygonographs utilizing seven characters (number of leaflets, leaf index, length of pubescence, number of flowers, anther length, corolla index, and pollen diameter) showed a wide range of variation and led to recognition of six morphologically distinct groups. Hybridizations with greenhouse populations showed that five of the morphological groups are reproductively isolated as well. A complex pattern of generic variation involving various degrees and combinations of low crossing success, low seed set, lowered $F_1$ pollen fertility, and nonreciprocal crossability was found. Examinations of meiotic figures from hybrids revealed no gross chromosomal structural differences. Evidence indicates that genetic differences, including gene-cytoplasm interactions, are significant isolating barriers. A key to the species studied plus appropriate taxonomic notes are provided. Solanum heiseri is described as new, and S. trachycarpum is placed in S. sect. Basarthrum series Caripensia.
2806373|Ceratozamia kuesteriana Regel, which was described from material comping from an unspecified Mexican locality and which, after its description, was never recorded in the field, has been found is southern Tamaulipas. Ceratozamia kuesteriana is very closely allied to C. zaragozae Medellin but differs by not having twisted leaves.
2807839|We report a phylogenetic analysis of "core" Malvales (Tiliaceae, Sterculiaceae, Bombacaceae, and Malvaceae) based on morphological, anatomical, palynological, and chemical features. The results of the analyses lead to the conclusion that Tiliaceae, Sterculiaceae, and Bombacaceae, as variously delimited, are paraphyletic; only the Malvaceae are likely monophyletic. The genera of "core" Malvales form a welldefined clade. Genera of "Tiliaceae" constitute the basal complex within "core" Malvales. The "Sterculiaceae" (most genera) + "Bombacaceae" + Malvaceae form a clade on the basis of a monadelphous androecium; "Bombacaceae" + Malvaceae also form a clade, which is diagnosable on the basis of monoloculate anthers. It is clear that the traditional classification, with its arbitrarily delimited evolutionary grades, is unsatisfactory, especially if one seeks to reflect phylogeny accurately. Thus, Malvaceae is redefined to refer to the most recent common ancestor of plants previously considered to be "Tiliaceae," "Sterculiaceae," "Bombacaceae," and Malvaceae, and all of the descendants of that ancestor. This broadly circumscribed Malvaceae can be diagnosed by several presumed synapomorphies, but we draw special attention to the unusual floral nectaries that are composed of densely packed, multicelluar, glandular haris on the sepals (or less commonly on the petals or androgynophore).
40980930|A new species, Allium pseudosenescens, belonging to sect. Rhizirideum (Alliaceae), is described from northeastern China. It is easily distinguished from A.senescens by the slender pedicels, pale pink perianths, narrower tepals and ovaries, yellowish anthers, and sometimes toothed subulate filaments. Also, A. senescens var.minus in sect. Rhizirideum is raised to the rank of species, as A. minus. This Korean endemic taxon is shown to be a biologically distinct species based on morphological and cytological characters. Taxonomic keys for the species of Allium sect. Rhizirideum in northeastern China and Korea are provided.
2806678|A new species of Lomatium belonging to the Cynomarathrum group is described and its relationships to other species in the group are indicated. Lomatium junceum appears to be restricted to Emery Co., Utah, on barren clay and shale slopes in the San Rafael Swell and adjacent eastern base of the Wasatch Plateau.
40980899|Con base en colecciones de la porcin sur de la Sierra Madre Occidental, en los estados de Jalisco, Nayarit y Zacatecas, se describe Echeveria perezcalixii como nueva para la ciencia. Se le compara con E. fulgens, de la cual se distingue entre otros caracteres, por su hbito generalmente acaule, sus hojas pruinosas con mrgenes hialinos y por sus pedicelos y spalos de mayor longitud. Based on collections from the southern part of the Sierra Madre Occidental, in the states of Jalisco, Nayarit, and Zacatecas, Echeveria perezcalixii is described as a new species. It is compared with E. fulgens, from which it differs by its acaulescent habit, pruinose leaves with hyaline margins, and longer pedicels and sepals.
3218380| Morphological and anatomical features (including wood anatomy and pollen morphology) of the small neotropical genus Pagameopsis (Rubiaceae Rubioideae) are discussed and illustrated. The fused ovaries, fenestrate corolla tube, basally attached anther filaments, and absence of raphides are especially noteworthy. Pagameopsis is definitely not a member of the Psychotrieae because of significant differences in wood anatomy and gynoecial and fruit structure. A close affinity with Gaertnereae seems doubtful for similar reasons. The taxonomic affinities of Pagameopsis remain obscure. The genus shows similarities with several taxa of the Rubioideae, such as Coccocypseleae, Morindeae, Hedyotideae, and Metabolos. The absence of raphides, on the other hand, makes a position in the Rubioideae doubtful. 
4099004|Four new species of Cayaponia are described and illustrated: three from Brazil (C. cogniauxiana, C. nitida and C. rugosa) and one from Brazil and Bolivia (C. ferruginea).
2806809|A taxonomically isolated new genus is decribed to accommodate Orphanodendron bernalii Barneby & Grimes, sp. nov., from western Antioquia, Colombia. Discussion and illustration display an anomalous syndrome of morphological characters that equivocally suggests affinity to Caesalpiniodeae tribe Sclerolobieae Bentham (=Caesalpinieae sensu Polhill & Vidal).
4497333| A new species of Diplazium, D. condorense from Ecuador, with free veins and concolorous blade scales, is described and illustrated. It is apparently most closely related to species of Callipteris, having anastomosing veins and scales with black margins and teeth. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Diplazium de Ecuador, D. condorense con venas libres y escamas de la lmina concoloras. Aparentemente esta especie est ms relacionada con las de Callipteris con venas anastomosadas y escamas con mrgenes negros y dientes bifurcados. 
2805500|Chromosome numbers are reported for 364 collections representing 70 species and varieties in 16 genera. Of these, 35 species and varieties have not had counts published previously. Counts of 26 collections in 14 species differ from all previously published counts for the same species. One new combination, Stevia anadenotricha, and one new variety, Stevia subpubescens var. intermedia, are published.
2806879|Two closely related new species, Senecio grimessi and S. marquezii, belonging to the section Palmatinervii are described, illustrated, and compared to their nearest relative, S. heterogamus.
2805810|Floral pigments of 30 taxa, representing five informally ranked subgeneric complexes (Linum schiedeanum, L. virginianum, L. neomexicanum, L. sulcatum, and L. rigidum) of yellow-flowered North American flaxes, were examined by paper chromatography. Earlier studies, based on comparative gross morphology, chromosomal complements, and pollen structure, led to the conclusion that members of the L. schiedeanum complex may be the most primitive and that the L. virginianum, L. neomexicanum, and L. rigidum complexes may have been derived independently, the latter via a taxon similar to L. sculcatum. Data from both carotenoids and flavonoids support this scheme. Spectral analysis reveals the exclusive presence of the $\beta$-carotenoid, violaxanthin, in the L. schiedeanum, L. virginianum, L. neomexicanum, and L. sulcatum complexes. Taxa of the L. rigidum complex, with the exception of L. subteres, possess exclusively the $\alpha$-carotenoids, lutein and its 5, 6-monoepoxide. L. subteres, in its production of violaxanthin, provides a chemical link to the other complexes, though possession of several species-specific flavonoids suggests and early divergence from other members of the L. rigidum complex. Distinctions in the chromatographic patterns of quercetin, luteolin, and other flavonoid compounds were found among the five groups. In general the loss of flavonoid pigments may be correlated with increased morphological specialization. Identical patterns in certain species of the L. schiedeanum and L. virginianum complexes support the presumed relationship between these two groups.
2807501|New species combinations are made in Bulbostylis, B. schomburgkiana and B. truncata from South America. A description, illustration, SEM photo of the fruit (achene), and comparison to related taxa are provided for each species.
2807742|A synoptic treatment of the 23 genera of Myrtaceae in Brazil and keys for their identification are provided, including a general key to all genera, a key to the subtribes, and keys to the genera of each subtribe. Four commonly recognized genera that we consider to be of uncertain status are provisionally treated as segregates of large related genera: Marlierea and Gomidesia with Myrcia; and Hexachlamys and Calycorectes with Eugenia. Important characters of the inflorescence, calyx, ovary, placenta, ovule, fruit, seed, and empbryo are discussed and illustrated. Information provided for each genus includes concise descriptions, geographic distribution, approximate number of species, and comparisons to related genera. Families that might be confused with Myrtaceae are briefly discussed. A new combination, Mosiera prismatica (D. Legrand) Landrum, is made.
2807378|The Hookeriales are evaluated to discern familial limits. Five families are recognized in the order: Hookeriaceae, Leucomiaceae, Daltoniaceae, Callicostaceae, and Adelotheciaceae fam. nov. Chaetomitrium Dozy & Molk., Chaetomitriopsis Fleisch., Dimorphocladon Dix., and Elharveya Crum are transferred to the Hypnaceae. Hookeriopsis (Besch.) Jaeg. is split into four genera: Hookeriopsis s. str. Brymela Crosby & Allen, Thamniopsis (Mitt.) Fleisch., and Trachyxiphium Buck, gen. nov. The following new combinations are proposed to coincide with the recognition of these four genera rather than Hookeriopsis s. lat.: Brymela acuminata, B. callicostelloides, B. cuspidata, B. fissidentoides, B. fluminensis, B. obtusifolia, B. parkeriana, B. rugulosa, B. websteri, Thamniopsis cheiloneura, T. cruegeriana, T. diffusa, T. incurva, T. langsdorffii, T. pappeana, T. purpureophylla, T. secunda, T. sinuata, T. terrestris, T. undata, T. utacamundiana, T. versicolor, Trachyxiphium aduncum, T. guadalupense, T. heteroicum, T. hypnaceum, T. pernutans, T. subfalcatum, T. tenue, T. vagum, and T. variable. Excluded species are treated as Isopterygium plumicaule, Schizomitrium cirrhosum, and S. subsecundum. Schizomitrium belangerianum (Besch.) Buck, comb. nov. is considered distinct from S. depressum (Hedw.) Buck & Steere, and S. pallidum (Hornsch.) Crum & Anders. is shown to have a smooth seta sometimes. The taxonomy of the aquatic species of Cyclodictyon Mitt. and Lepidopilum (Brid.) Brid. is clarified, resulting in the recognition of three species, Cyclodictyon subtortifolium (Bartr.) Buck, comb. nov., C. roridum (Hampe) Kuntze and L. tortifolium Mitt. Two new combinations are proposed in Calyptrochaeta Desv., C. setigera and C. albescens.
2805665|The present revision of Solanum sect. Brevantherum Seithe recognizes 27 species in North and South America, two of which have become naturalized in parts of the Old World. Three species, S. Iltisii, S. Goodspeedii, and S. appressum, are described as new. Comparative morphology, geographical distribution, and ecological data provide evidence for species recognition. Some of the most diagnostic features are those associated with the buds, leaves, and the hairs, which range from simple to porrect-stellate and more complex types, described herein as multangulate, dendritic-multangulate, echinoid, and dendriticechinoid.
41406764|Se describe e ilustra como especie nueva a Polianthes zapopanensis, conocida de la parte centro-sur del estado de Jalisco, Mxico. Por su inflorescencia en forma de racimo, esta especie se ubica en Polianthes subgnero Bravoa. Las hojas de las plantas en floracin no se agrupan para formar una roseta. A diferencia de las especies hasta ahora descritas tiene el eje de la inflorescencia generalmente ramificado, con una o dos ramas de 6-24 cm de largo, entre el quinto y el octavo nudos, sus flores son infundibuliformes y crasas. Muestra similitudes morfolgicas con Polianthes geminiflora var. geminiflora, P geminiflora var. clivicola, P. geminiflora var. pueblensis, P. graminifolia y P. oaxacana. Se presenta una clave para la determinatin de las especies del estado de Jalisco, Mxico. Polianthes zapopanensis from south-central Jalisco, Mexico, is described and illustrated as a new species. Based on its racemose inflorescence, it belongs to Polianthes subgenus Bravoa. The leaves of the flowering plants are not in a rosette, and this species differs from the others in the genus by its thick infundibuliform flowers and by its usually branched inflorescence, with one or two branches 6-24 cm long between the fifth and eighth nodes. It shows morphological similarities with Polianthes geminiflora var. geminiflora, P. geminiflora var. clivicola, P. geminiflora var. pueblensis, P. graminifolia and P. oaxacana. A key is presented to distinguish members of the genus in Jalisco, Mexico.
41406779|In northern Vit Nam the felling of Cupressus for wood and incense has resulted in the decimation of wild cypress populations. Ever since specimens of Cupressus from Vit Nam were first sent to Paris in 1905, they have been inappropriately referred to a variety of names including Cupressus funebris, Cu. torulosa, and synonyms of Callitropsis lusitanica. This taxonomic disarray was somewhat ameliorated in 1994 when a new speciesCu. tonkinensiswas proposed. Unfortunately, the morphological differences between Cu. tonkinensis and similar species were not clearly articulated. As a result, Cu. tonkinensis has generally been ignored or treated as a synonym of Cu. torulosa.These two species can be distinguished by the presence of dimorphic leaves in Cu. tonkinensis and their absence in Cu. torulosa as well as several continuous morphological characteristics including the frequency of resin glands (greater in Cu. tonkinensis) on ultimate segments, and the size of the ovulate cone (smaller in Cu. tonkinensis). The natural habitat occupied by Cu. tonkinensis in a principal coordinates plot of nine monthly climate variables and 40 soil variables is remote from other species.Cupressus tonkinensis habitat is statistically distinct from Cu. chengiana, Cu. gigantea, and Cu. torulosa, but statistically indistinguishable from the habitats of Cu. funebris.  bc Vit Nam vic cht h Cupressus  ly g v cht thorn  dn n hu qu hu dit cc qun th hoang dai ca n. Ngay t nam 1905, khi cc mu vt Cupressus thu tai Vit Nam ln u uac chuyn v Paris chng  uc xp mt cch khng tho ng khi l mt th ca loi Cupressus funebris, ca loi Cu. torulosa, khi l tn ng ngha ca loi Callitropsis lusitanica. S ln xn v mt phn loi hc ny  uc ci thin phn no khi vo nm 1994, mt loi miCu. tonkinensis uc d xut. Tuy nhin, rt tic l nhng s sai khc v hnh thi gia Cu. tonkinensis vi cc loi gn gi  khng uc chi ra r rng. Kt qu l Cu. tonkinensis ni chung khng uc bit n hoc ch uc coi l tn ong ngha ca Cu. torulosa. Hai loi ny c th phn bit vi nhau bi s c mt ca l d hnh  Cu. tonkinensis, cn khng c  Cu. torulosa cng nhu mt vi c tnh hinh thi lin te bao gm tn xut cao ca cc tuyn nha du (nhiu hon  Cu. tonkinensis) trn cc on cnh l tn cng v kch thuc ca nn ht (nh hon  Cu. tonkinensis). Mc du ni sng t nhin ca Cu. tonkinensis c cc ta d chnh ca  vi 9 bin s kh hu thng v 40 bin s th nhirng nm xa toa d ca tt c cc loi khc va su phn tch thong k da c th tch ro rngnai sng ca Cu. tonkinensis khoi  sng ca cc loi Cu. funebris va Cu. torulosa, nhung khng phn biet vi nai sng ca Cu. chengiana va Cu. gigantea v mat thong k.
2807149|The new variety, Dodecatheon dentatum var. utahense, represents a geographic stepping stone between D. dentatum var. dentatum of the Pacific Northwest and D. dentatum var. ellisiae of the Southwest. Rationale for using the infraspecific rank or variety includes historical precedence and preponderant usage, convenience of grouping multiple varieties into subspecies, and elimination of subjectivity in grading the magnitude of genetic differences.
2806354|Examination of type material of Verbesina standleyi and Calea pachyphylla shows that the two taxa are conspecific. The older name, C. pachyphylla, has long been associated with the quite remote, C. orizabaensis. The latter is indistinguishable from C. rupestris and C. guatemalensis; accordingly, these are placed in synonymy. Calea orizabaensis consist of two infraspecific taxa, var, orizabaensis and var. websteri; the latter is described as new.
2807678|The species of Chamaesyce classified by Boissier as the "Pleiadeniae" are revised in light of presently available collections. Six species are accepted and new combinations are proposed for C. nana, C. setosa, C. tamanduana, and C. viscoides. Although these herbaceous perennials of cerrado vegetation of Brazil, northern Argentina, and adjacent countries are distinctive ecologically and geographically, cladistic analysis does not support their recognition as a monophyletic group.
2805458|This species complex is native to the desert regions of west-central North America having had its origin in northern Mexico. It consists of 9 species and 3 varieties. One species, Eriogonum moranii is described as new, and three new combinations, E. austrinum. E. deflexum var. turbinatum, and E. deflexum var. baratum are proposed. A history of the complex, along with a discussion of the ecological and phytogeographical nature of each taxon, is presented. Chromosome numbers are reported, with all species counted having 2n=40. A comprehensive key is included, followed by descriptions, short lists of exsiccatae, and discussions of relationships among the species.
2806353|Acer craibianum T. Delendick is substituted for A. isolobum Kurz (1872, non A. isolobum Massalongo, 1859). Close affinity with A. osmastonii, currently regarded as a hybrid, is rejected. Murray's combination of the taxon with the Chinese A. wilsonii is considered not to have a sufficient basis.
2807878|Acanthosyris asipapote, a new species from the vicinity of Santa Cruz, Bolivia, is described and illustrated. It is most similar to A. paulo-alvinii Barroso, known only from the state of Bahia, Brazil, but differs by leaf characters, pilose filaments, and smaller seeds. A key to the five woody genera and nine species of Santalaceae in South America is provided. Cervantesia, Jodina, and Myoschilos are probably monotypic; Santalum (in South America) has a single species, and Acanthosyris has five species.
2806546|Distinctly mucronate anther cells and the 4-seeded capsule of Hygrophila pringlei Greenman together with several other additional characters, suggest that this taxon would be better treated as Dyschoriste rubiginosa, nom. nov.
2805560|Data from chromosome numbers and from morphological variation in wild plants and artificial hybrids further support the hypothesis that Lysimachia X producta is of hybrid origin and the taxonomic judgment that it is best treated at the status of interspecific hybrid rather than as a species of hybrid origin. Additional Distribution data are presented.
40648178|Corytoplectus (Gesneriaceae) es un gnero neotropical en el cual se reconocen 11 especies y dos variedades de Sudamrica. Recolectas realizadas recientemente en Oaxaca indican, por primera vez, la presencia del gnero en Mxico, adems de una nueva especie endmica, C. oaxacensis. Esta especie se parece a C. schlimii, la cual se distribuye en Colombia y Venezuela. Se discute brevemente la distribucin geogrfica del gnero. Corytoplectus (Gesneriaceae) is a neotropical genus of 11 species from South America. Collections recently made in Oaxaca indicate, for the first time, the presence of the genus in Mexico, and a newly described endemic species, C. oaxacensis. This species is most closely resembles C. schlimii which is from Colombia and Venezuela. Geographical distribution of the genus is briefly discussed.
2807172|Minuartia stolonifera, a serpentine endemic is described and contrasted with other related perennial species of the North Coast Ranges. A key to the perennial species of Minuartia of the region is included.
2666492|We have examined morphological and chromosomal variation in Fallopia sect. Reynoutria in Korea to clarify their taxonomic identities and to determine whether their morphological variability is associated with ploidy levels. Principal components analysis (PCA) of individuals from 21 populations, using major distinguishing characters, revealed the presence of four major entities of sect. Reynoutria in Korea; these include F. sachalinensis, F. japonica var. japonica, F. forbesii, and the Nonsan population consisting of presumed hybrids. Based on morphology, it is hypothesized that the Nonsan population was probably derived from multiple hybridization events involving the three named taxa. The results also indicate that F. forbesii is distinct from F. japonica var. japonica. Polyploidy is more prevalent in sect. Reynoutria than has been previously recognized. Fallopia sachalinensis in Korea occurs as dodecaploids with 2n = 132; our count is the first dodecaploid count for the species, and represents the highest chromosome number known in the genus. Fallopia japonica var. japonica occurs as tetraploids (2n = 44), hexaploids (2n = 66), and octoploids (2n = 88), while F. forbesii occurs as hexaploids (2n = 66) and octoploids (2n = 88); our counts appear to be the first reported chromosome numbers for F. forbesii. Morphological analysis indicates that there is no apparent correlation between the ploidy levels in these taxa and the morphological characters that we have considered in this study except that the tetraploids of F. japonica var. japonica tend to have somewhat thicker leaves.
2806718|Distribution maps, specimen citations and taxonomic commentary are provided for 14 species of Senecio in temperate North America allied with S. tomentosus (the "Tomentosi"). These data support the author's treatment of the gruop in North American Flora.
30219389|Se describe e ilustra Miconia punctibullata, una nueva especie colombiana de Melastomataceae, caracterizada por el hbito herbceo semiescandente, la presencia de proyecciones anulares engrosadas por debajo de los nudos (manicaduras) en tallos y ejes de la inflorescencia, punteaduras con tricomas glandulares ssiles por el envs de la lmina foliar, inflorescencias en dicasio compuesto, y ptalos amarillos. Se incluye una clave para todas las especies de Miconia con nudos manicados. /// Miconia punctibullata, a new species of Melastomataceae from Colombia, is described and illustrated. The new species can be distinguished by its scandent herbaceous habit, stems and inflorescences with swollen annular projections below the nodes, punctations with sessile, glandular trichomes on the abaxial surface of the leaf, compound dichasial inflorescences, and bright yellow petals. A key to all species of Miconia with annular stem projections is provided.
2806930|Five new species are described from the state of Oaxaca in southern Mexico: Huperzia beiteliana Mickel, Ophioglossum dudadae Mickel, Selaginella basipilosa Valdespino, Selaginella mickelii Valdespino, and Selaginella nothohybrida Valdespino.
2806716|Consideration of the elements of the protologue show that Acer nikoense Maximowicz must be regarded as a valid name for the Nikko Maple of Japan when published in November 1867, not based on Negundo? nikoense Miquel. Acer maximowiczianum Miquel (Dec. 1867) is a superfluous synonym based on A. nikoense Maxim. non Miq.
2805962|This paper provides a description and a distribution map for the diploid (2n=36) H. berberidifolius A. Rich. (of sect. Furcaria), endemic to the mountain ranges associated with the Rift Valley of East Africa. It also compares salient morphological features of this species with those of the allo-octoploid (n=72) H. diversifolius Jacq., to which it has sometimes been subordinated as var. witteanus Hochr.
2805688| Tigridia durangense, T. chiapensis, and T. huajuapanensis are described as new. The first species known from llanos near La Ciudad and El Salto, Durango; the second from the highlands of central Chiapas; and the third from a single locality near Huajuapan de Len, Oaxaca. 
41406793|Pteris exigua, an endemic species from the Tucumano-Boliviano forests, northwestern Argentina, is described and distinguished from similar species of Pteris that occur in this region.
2807853|Zapoteca quichol, a new species endemic to southern Tabasco, Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species exhibits morphological characteristics that place it within subgenus Amazonica, together with Z. amazonica and Z. microcephala, from Peru and Colombia, respectively.
30218787|Five new species of Geonoma from Ecuador, G. awaensis, G. ecuadoriensis, G. hollinensis, G. lanata, and G. skovii, are described and illustrated and are compared to similar species. Their distributions are mapped.
30218814|Se describen e ilustran dos especies colombianas de Magnolia, nuevas para la ciencia, provenientes del departamento de Antioquia. Magnolia coronata se distingue por un anillo de indumento lanoso dorado presente en el entrenudo ms joven de las ramillas. Magnolia jardinensis se caracteriza por las numerosas puntuaciones presentes en los ptalos ms externos y por la pubescencia lanosa y amarillenta. Se presentan los primeros registros para Colombia, en el departamento de Santander, de la especie Magnolia chimantensis, conocida hasta ahora solamente por la coleccin del tipo proveniente de Chimant, en Venezuela. /// Two new Colombian species of Magnolia from Antioquia are described and illustrated. Magnolia coronata can be distinguished by a ring of woolly, golden pubescence present in the youngest internodes of the branches. Magnolia jardinensis has numerous punctations on the outermost petals and a woolly, yellowish pubescence. Magnolia chimantensis, a species previously known only from the type locality in Chimanti, Venezuela, is reported for the first time from Santander, Colombia.
2807082|Absence of thorns in individuals of Gleditsia triacanthos varies through time. Originally thornless trees in the living collection of the Arnold Arboretum have become thorn-bearing after 40 to 55 years, indicating that the thornless phenotype is not genetically fixed or a simple recessive trait. The infraspecific taxon inermis is thus rejected at any rank in G. triacanthos.
2807416|A number of ascomycetes formerly named in Odontotrema (Ostropales) and the illegitimate Winteria (Rehm) Sacc. are redisposed in Xylopezia and Mycowinteria (a new name for Winteria). New combinations are introduced for Mycowinteria anodonta (=Winteria lichenoides), Xylopezia hemishaerica (=Odontotrema hemisphaericum), Xylopezia excellens (=Winteria excellens), and Xylopezia inclusa (=Odontotrema subintegrum). Xylopezia biseptata is described as new. Xylopezia and Mycowinteria are each isolated taxonomically and their affinities at the family level are obscure.
4497368|Tolmiea diplomenziesii, the diploid entity traditionally treated within a broadly circumscribed Tolmiea menziesii, is here formally described. Evidence is provided that this new species represents the diploid sister lineage to T menziesii, which is re-circumscribed to include only autotetraploid plants. The diploid and autotetraploid entities are compared, and serve as an example of the level of taxonomic evidence for specific status that we consider appropriate for recognition of a cytological entity as a distinct species.
2805728|Data derived from a morphological, cytological, flavonoid, and greenhouse study indicate that Paronychia pulvinata (2n = 32) and P. sessiliflora (2n = 64) should be distinguished in specific rank rather than in subspecific rank as recently proposed. Additionally, new evidence is brought to bear on P. depressa var. brevicuspis, which is shown to be synonymous with P. sessiliflora.
2807318|The curl-leaf mountain-mahogany of the Intermountain Region is given a varietal name for the first time, Cercocarpus ledifolius var. intermontanus. It is distinguished from var. ledifolius by its broader, less pubescent leaves, its often longer petioles, and its often longer hypanthium tube. The name C. ledifolius var. intercedens C. Schneider is based on a likely hybrid between C. ledifolius var. intermontanus and C. intricatus. The names C. hypoleucus and C. ledifolius var. intercedens f. hirsutus fall into synonymy under C. ledifolius. A lectotype is selected for the quadrinomial C. ledifolius var. lntercedens f. hirsutus.
40648099|Inocybe tubarioides is a rarely collected or recognized agaric with an unusual combination of ecological and morphological characters for this genus, namely a lignicolous habit and a strongly hygrophanous pileus. The species is known only from eastern North America and is reported here for the first time from states in New England and Canada. A taxonomic description is provided, including the first photographic record of the species and discussion of its evolutionary history. Based on molecular phylogenetic analysis the species is most closely related with significant measures of statistical support to two other narrowly endemic species of Inocybe: one also from eastern North America (I. tahquamenonensis) and another from northern Europe (I. relicina), the latter of which is the type of the genus Inocybe. These three species constitute the clade that corresponds with section Inocybe. Inocybe tubarioides est un Agaric rarement signal, prsentant une combinaison inhabituelle de caractristiques cologiques et morphologiques, en particulier l'habitat lignicole et le chapeau fortement hygrophane. Cette espce n'est connue que de la faade orientale de l'Amrique du Nord, et est signale ici pour la premire fois en Nouvelle-Angleterre et Canada. Une description est fournie, accompagne pour la premire fois d'une photographie, et d'une discussion quant  son histoire volutive. D'aprs des analyses molculaires phylogntiques soutenues par des mesures statistiques significatives, cette espce est trs troitement apparente  deux autres espces endmiques, l'une galement connue de l'Est de l'Amrique du Nord (I. tahquamenonensis), l'autre d'Europe du Nord (I. relicina) qui se trouve tre le type du genre Inocybe. Ces trois espces constituent la clade: section Inocybe.
2805531|An analysis of the variation patterns in the three Pacific Coast maritime species of Abronia (Nyctaginaceae) based on 95 population studies, is presented in the form of scatter diagrams. The relationship of this group of species to other members of the genus, such as A. gracilis Benth., is considered. Despite widespread evidence of hybridization and introgression, the three maritime species (A. latifolia Eschsch., A. maritima Nutt. ex S. Wats., and A. unbellata Lam.) maintain their distinctness. Most of the taxonomic segregants in this group have been based on what appear to be hybrid or introgressed individuals, many of which closely resemble members of a series of artificial hybrids made in the geenhouse. The chromosome number of all three species is estimated as 2n = ca. 46. The species are show to differ markedly in ecological preference: A. latifolia competing successfully on stable areas of dunes from Vancouver Island, British Columbia, to Santa Barbara Co., California; A. maritima being the major foredune former along the strand from San Luis Obispo Co., California, south to Nayarit, Mexico; and A. umbellata occurring on more stable dunes from San Luis Obispo to San Diego Co., California, and sporadically north and south of this area. The latter speicies is pollinated chiefly by nocturnal insects and is fragrant in the evining, whereas the other two have diurnal flowers. One widespread and two rarer, more northern subspecies of A. umbellata are recognized in the taxonomic revision, while the other two species are not subdivided taxonomically.
3218444|Aiello, in a revision of Portlandia and related genera, recognized two varieties in Portlandia coccinea Sw. based on leaf shape and geographic distribution. After detailed studies of herbarium specimens, recent observations of both varieties in their natural environment and in cultivation, and a phylogenetic analysis, it became evident that P. coccinea var. proctorii Aiello should be treated as a separate species with corollas shorter and of a different shape than those of var. coccinea. Portlandia proctorii is presented as a new combination. A key for the two species, descriptions and illustrations are included.
2805877|Senecio ganderi is described as new from San Diego County, California. It is referable to the Aurei species-group and is distinguished by its orange-yellow corollas, cordate to subcordate basal leaves, and its restriction to chaparral and recently burned areas.
2805986|Trisetum curvisetum is a new species from high Sierra Madre Oriental in Nuevo Leon, Mexico. Its soft rather than liquid endosperm is new for the genus, and its lemma awn is thin and flexuous, easily distinguishable from that of other North American Trisetum.
2807623|The new combination Eudimeriolum cyathearum is proposed for Dimeriella cyathearum; the fungus is found on pinnae of Cyathea caudata in the Philippine Islands. Dimeriella polypodii is described from scales on pinnae of Polypodium montigenum and P. madrense in Mexico. Bioscypha cyatheae, on pinnae of Cyathea sp. in Costa Rica, is redescribed. Bioscypha pteridicola is described from pinnae of Cnemidaria uleana var. abitaguensis in Colombia. Crocicreas sessilis is described from pinnae of Cyathea divergens var. tuerckheimii in Mexico.
3218482| A new series, Passiflora ser. Carneae, and three new species are described in Passiflora subg. Astrophea: P. ascidia from Guyana and Venezuelan Guayana; P. balbis from Guyana, Venezuelan Guayana, and Amazonian Brazil; and P. saulensis from central French Guiana. A key to the 19 Guianan species of Passiflora subg. Astrophea is provided. /// [French]Une nouvelle srie, Passiflora ser. Carneae, et trois espces nouvelles de Passiflora sous-genre Astrophea sont dcrites: P. ascidia du Guyana et de la Guyane vnzulienne, P. balbis du Guyana, de la Guyane v nzulienne et d' Amazonie brsilienne, et P. saulensis du centre de la Guyane franaise. Une cl permet d'identifier les 19 espces guyanaises de Passiflora sous-genre Astrophea. 
41406759|A summary is presented of all Peruvian species of scaly tree fems (Cyatheaceae). A total of 83 species is native to Peru (Sphaeropteris 1 sp., Alsophila sect. Alsophila 9 spp., Alsophila sect. Gymnosphaera 1 sp., Cyathea 72 spp.), with 13 endemic species in Cyathea and one in Alsophila. The following new species are described and illustrated: Alsophila gastonyi, Cyathea chontilla, C. nephele, C. polliculi, and C. praetermissa. The genera Cnemidaria and Trichipteris are no longer recognized and merged in Cyathea. Necessary combinations are made for Cyathea alatissima, C. nervosa, and C. uleana. Cyathea serpens is presented in detail and its relationship is discussed. An artificial key to the Peruvian species of Cyatheaceae is provided.
2806766|Two new species of Vriesea with pendent inflorescences, V. uxoris and V. vietoris, are described from the mountains of Costa Rica, and their relationships in the genus are discussed.
2806744|This paper presents information extracted from the fieldbooks of the Cuban plant-collecting trips of J. A. Shafer, N. L. Britton and P. Wilson. A list of Cuban place names for localities at which collections were made and a list of the published reports of these trips are also included.
2805610|Herbstia, a new monotypic, Brazilian genus of Amaranthaceae is proposed for the taxon heretofore known as Chamissoa brasiliana (Moquin) Fries. It differs from Chamissoa in its exarillate seeds and structurally indehiscent fruit, and from the South Indian Indobanalia, in which genus Moquin originally placed it, in habit and in the strictly axillary cymules of flowers.
3218425|Marina victoriae and M. brevis are newly described species from the southern Baja California peninsula, Mexico. The former is a perennial herb locally abundant in the eroded hillsides at the foothills of Sierra de la Victoria, where an oak woodland and a dry tropical forest meet. The latter is an elusive ephemeral inhabiting a narrow strip of land between the mangroves and the desert scrub on an island in the Gulf of California. These two new species belong to the series Chrysorrhizae, a group native to the Gulf of California basin.
2805722|Eupatorium is a large, chiefly American genus in which some species have deviated from the usual reproductive methods of insect pollination and outcrossing. Apomixis and autogamy are two reproductive specializations which have been reported previously. A third, anemophily, is suspected in E. solidaginifolium, E. solidaginoides, E. monanthum, and several other species. Our assumptions are based upon morphological modifications of the inflorescence, anther appendages, style branches, and pollen. Wind pollination in the Compositae has heretofore been known only in the tribe Anthemideae and the subtribe Ambrosinae of the Heliantheae; its occurrence in Eupatorium is an independent evolutionary event. The occurence of apomixis, autogamy, and anemophily in members of Eupatorium from the same geographical region probably represents (at least in part) correlated responses to the same environmental stress, a scarcity of insect pollinators.
2806523|Twenty-two new varietal combinations are made for the treatment of the genus Panicum of the Southeastern United States. The following 3 new combinations are made in the subgenus Panicum: Panicum rigidulum var. elongatum, P. rigidulum var. pubescens, P. rigidulum var. combsii. The following 19 new combinations are made in the subgenus Dichanthelium: P. strigosum var. glabrescens, P. strigosum var. leucoblepharis, P. dichotomum var. roanokense, P. dichotomum var. lucidum. P. dichotomum var. ramulosum, P. dichotomum var. mattamuskeetense, P. dichotomum var. yadkinense, P. ensifolium var. curtifolium, P. chamaelonche var. breve, P. portoricense var. nashianum, P. acuminatum var. fasciculatum, P. acuminatum var. unciphyllum, P. acuminatum var. columbianum, P. acuminatum var. lindheimeri, P. acuminatum var. densiflorum, P. acuminatum var. longiligulatum, P. acuminatum var. leucothrix, P. ovale var. pseudopubescens, and P. ovale var. villosum.
2805498|The gross morphology of the Central American species of Piper is surveyed in respect to habit and habitat, protection of the shoot-tip, form and condensation of the inflorescence and floral parts, and anther-dehiscence. The cap-like structure covering the shoot-tip in many species is interpreted as a modified prophyll. A ligulate development and the inclusion of the inflorescence within the sheathing leaf-base in a few species are discussed. Diminution and compaction of the floral parts are interpreted as an evolutionary response to the activities of small pollen-collecting bees. Compaction of the floral parts is correlated with a truncation of the pistil apex and, in a few species, with a change in the mode of anther dehiscence. Apical and upward dehiscence of the anthers are interpreted as similar adaptations caused by a restriction of the pollinator's activity to the surface of the spike. A relationship between ants and certain hollow-stemmed species is mentioned. The multiple origins and independent lines of evolutionary development discussed here suggest a complex phyletic history of the genus.
40648096|Utricularia regia is described and illustrated. It occurs in the Sierra Madre del Sur region of Guerrero, Mexico, and belongs to section Psyllosperma; a key to differentiate the species of sect. Psyllosperma is included. The new species is similar to Utricularia hintonii and U. petersoniae, from which it differs in the unusual division of the upper lip of the corolla into four lobes and its peculiar coloration pattern. A table comparing the differences among these three species is presented. Utricularia regia adds a new, narrowly endemic species to the flora of Guerrero, Mexico. Se describe e ilustra como especie nueva para la ciencia a Utricularia regia a partir de ejemplares procedentes del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. La nueva especie se ubica en la seccin Psyllosperma y est mejor relacionada con Utricularia hintonii y U. petersoniae; de las que se diferencia por la divisin del labio superior de la corola en cuatro lbulos y por su peculiar coloracin; se presenta una tabla en la que se comparan ms ampliamente estas tres especies y se incluye tambin una clave para diferenciar las especies de la seccin Psyllosperma. Utricularia regia agrega un elemento endmico ms a la flora de Guerrero y de Mxico.
3218499|Four new taxa of Bromeliaceae are described: Billbergia acreana from Brazil; Pitcairnia chocoensis from Colombia; and Guzmania diazii and Pitcairnia filifera from Peru. Also included is the new name Werauhia moralesii from Costa Rica. Miscellaneous new taxa of Bromeliaceae (XV) appeared in Selbyana 21: 125-131. 2000.
30219379|Cariniana as previously circumscribed is a genus of 16 species restricted to neotropical forest habitats on well-drained sites. A phylogenetic analysis of the genus based on 33 morphological and anatomical characters was undertaken. The results show that Cariniana consists of two clades: the Allantoma/Cariniana decandra clade includes Allantoma lineata and seven species of actinomorphic-flowered Cariniana and is characterized by 5-merous flowers, carnose petals, incurved petal apex, scarcely lobed calyces, eucamptodromous secondary veins, dichotomizing venation, and poorly developed areolation; the C. legalis clade is made up of nine species and is characterized by an obliquely zygomorphic androecium, reticulate tertiary venation, and anomocytic stomata. The actinomorphic-flowered Cariniana are more closely related to the monotypic Allantoma lineata than they are to the species of the C. legalis clade. In order to reflect these relationships, Cariniana is divided into two genera: species in the C. legalis clade, which includes the generic type C. legalis, remain as Cariniana while species of Cariniana in the Allantoma/Cariniana decandra clade are transferred to Allantoma. The following new combinations are proposed: Allantoma decandra, A. integrifolia, A. kuhlmannii, A. pluriflora (a nomen novum for Cariniana multiflora because Allantoma multiflora is a synonym of Couratari multiflora), A. pachyantha, A. pauciramosa, and A. uaupensis.
2806742|Dalea (ser. Pectinatae) cora from the pine-oak belt in Nayarit, D. (ser. Parosela) illustris from montane western Oaxaca and D. (ser. Versicolores) sousae from the Gulf of Tehuantepec in south-central Oaxaca are described, compared with kindred, and illustrated.
3218539|In the course of a phylogenetic analysis and systematic revision of Charianthus, it was discovered that C. purpureus, as traditionally circumscribed, is polyphyletic, consisting of three morphologically diagnosable entities. Thus two new species, Charianthus dominicensis and C. grenadensis, are described and illustrated. Each is endemic to the Lesser Antillean island for which it is named-Dominica and Grenada, respectively. Charianthus, the only vascular plant genus endemic to the Lesser Antilles, comprises six species of nectariferous, hummingbird-pollinated shrubs and small trees.
4497374| Phenetic analyses of morphological variation were used to elucidate distinctiveness and circumscription of taxa within the genus Froelichia in North America. Preserved specimens representing all recognized taxa and one suspected hybrid taxon were measured for 39 continuous and discrete characters and subjected to univariate and multivariate analyses. Principal coordinate analysis indicated the presence of three distinct groups of species with intergradation of morphological intermediates. Two of the groups corresponded to two large complexes of species, the F floridana complex of the south-central and southeastern United States and the F interrupta complex principally of Mexico, while the third consisted of E gracilis native to the southern United States and adjoining Mexico. Discriminant analysis on each of the two complexes indicated morphologically distinct forms within each morphologically variable complex. The use of novel characters for the discrimination of taxa resulted in the identification of less plastic traits among the recognized species. Use of these newly discovered traits provides more reliable means for the identification of taxa. An instance of potential hybridization among three taxa in southern Texas was additionally explored with the putative hybrid taxa exhibiting an intermediate combination of morphological traits between each of the putative parents. /// Un anlisis fentico de la variacin morfolgica presente en los taxa del gnero Froelichia en Norte Amrica fue realizado para determinar la circunscripcin y diferencias entre ellos. Treinta y nueve caracteres tanto discretos como continuos fueron medidos en ejemplares de herbario de todos los taxa reconocidos as como en un hbrido potencial, y stos fueron sometidos a anlisis uni y multivariados. El anlisis de coordinadas principales indic la presencia de tres grupos distintos de especies con un gradiente de intermedios morfolgicos. Dos de los grupos corresponden a dos grandes complejos de especies, el complejo de E floridana de la parte Surcentro y del Sureste de los Estados Unidos y el complejo de F. interrupta de distribucin principalmente en Mxico. El tercer grupo corresponde a F. gracilis especie nativa al sureste de Estados Unidos y a la parte adyacente de Mxico. El anlisis discriminante hecho en cada uno de los dos complejos indic formas morfolgicamente distintas dentro de cada complejo. El uso de caracteres nunca antes usados para la discriminacin de los taxa result en la identificacin de caracteres que son menos plsticos entre las especies reconocidas y que facilita su identificacin de una manera ms eficaz y confiable. Se explor adicionalmente el potencial de hibridizacin entre tres taxa del sur de Texas, con los hbridos mostrando una mezcla de caracteres intermedios entre los padres putativos. 
2807459|Inga unica Barneby & J. W. Grimes, notable for a syndrome of: a) softly pilose foliage, b) emarginate leafstalks lacking nectaries, c) leafletx 2-3 pairs, of moderate size, d) filiform pliant peduncles, e) globose capitula, f) elongate linear floral bracts persistent after fall of the flowers, g) calyx more than half as long as corolla, and h) thin-textured fruit shattering after falling, is described, figured, and discussed. It appears related to I. (Leptinga) nutans (Vellozo) Martius ex Bentham.
2805949|Among various names previously proposed for plants of the present study, only a single, widespread species is represented. It has been most recently considered as Chaptalia, but its closest relationships instead are with the Asian genus Leibnitzia; it is here recognized as L. seemannii (Schultz-Bip.) Nesom. In addition, a closely related, previously undescribed species narrowly endemic to an area of the Sierra Madre of Sinaloa and Chihuahua is recognized as L. occimadrensis Nesom. Plants of both taxa display a type of capitular dimorphism, producing open, radiate heads in the spring but completely closed, essentially eligulate ones in the summer. The breeding system of L. occimadrensis is unknown, but the embryos of the closed heads of L. seemannii are produced apomictically. Because its ancestors probably were autogamous and L. seemannii itself has retained the mechanism for autogamy, the evolutionary development of agamospermy is an anormaly; this species is one of very few angio-sperms known where the occurrence of such a transition can be observed. A chromosome number of 2n=46 is reported for L. seemannii.
2807763| Revision of Protium in French Guiana has revealed two new species. Protium gallicum is related to P. aracouchini (Aubl.) Marchand and P. elegans Engl., although its fruits resemble those of P. plagiocarpium Bnoist. Protium inodorum, which also occurs in northern Par, Brazil, is related to P. pallidum Cuatrec. and P. cuneatum Swart; it is known only from flowers and very young fruits. Even in relatively well-known regions of tropical forest, botanical exploration continues to yield new taxa. 
2807718|Andreadoxa flava is distinguished from all other genera of the neotropical subtribe Cuspariinae by the combination of a cupular calyx, yellow, free petals narrowed at base, two glandular-punctate anthers joined by their basal appendages, five apically subglobose and glandular staminodes, a smooth papery testa, and conduplicate, plicate cotyledons. It is one of 10 monospecific genera of the subtribe and one of 17 species of this subtribe endemic to the coastal forest of Bahia.
2805085|A key is provided for Andropogon and the segregate genera, Schizachyrium, Bothriochloa, and Dichanthium, as represented in the United States. Included also is a listing of the native and introduced species of each: 17 species of Andropogon (all native); 11 species of Schizachryium (all native); 14 species of Bothriochloa (8 native + 6 introduced); 3 species of Dichanthium (all introduced). New combinations are proposed for: Schizachryium niveum; S. rhizomatum; S. sericatum; S. scoparium var. divergens, var. frequens, var. littoralis, var. neomexicanum, and var, virile.
2807830|Because of its incomplete original description, the monotypic genus Wernhamia has long been considered a dubious taxon. Recent Bolivian collections by the junior author and other collections from Peru have revealed the identity of Wernhamia boliviensis; it is synonymous with Simira macrocrater, and Wernhamia is therefore congeneric with Simira. A complete description, illustration, and distribution map of this species are provided.
2805992|Arberella, a new genus of bambusoid grasses, is established, based on the newly described species. A. dressleri. Also belonging to this new genus are the taxa originally named Olyra flaccida and Raddia costaricensis and several new species from Panama and Brazil which will be described later. The new genus is presented in a key to the genera of the tribe Olyreae, of which it is a member, and a key is given to the three species treated in this paper.
3218335| A new hybrid, Lomariopsis farrarii, is illustrated and described from the La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica. It is intermediate between its parents, L. japurensis and L. vestita in length and color of the rhizome scales, shape and number of the pinnae, and size and division of the juvenile leaves in a heteroblastic series. [Spanish] Un hbrido nuevo, Lomariopsis farrarii, se describe y se ilustra de la Estacin Biolgica La Selva, Costa Rica. Tiene caratersticas intermedias de sus padres, L. japurensis y L. vestita, en la longitud y el color de las escamas del rizoma, la forma y el nmero de las pinnas, y el tamao y la divisin de las hojas jvenes en una serie heteroblstica. 
3218470| Two new narrow endemic species of Begonia from the Atlantic coastal forests of Brazil, B. espiritosantensis and B. ibitiocensis, are described and illustrated. Begonia schenkii var. calvescens, an endemic taxon from the states of Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, is transferred to species rank, and described and illustrated. A distribution map is provided for all three taxa. /// [Spanish]Duas novas espcies de Begonia com distribuio endmica lntica brasileira, B. espiritosantensis e B. ibitiocensis, so descritas e ilustradas. Begonia schenkii var. calvescens, endmica dos Estados de Santa Catarina e Rio Grande do Sul,  transferida para o nvel de espcie, com descrio e ilustraes complementares.  apresentado um mapa de distribuio para os trs taxa. 
2806438|Dichanthelium strigosum is made as a new combination to replace D. leucoblepharis in the broad sense which is based on a later binomial. New combinations are made for the two additional varieties of this species.
2807873|The new combination Stigmaphyllon bonariense, based on Banisteria bonariensis Hook. & Arn., is proposed to replace the more recent name Stigmaphyllon littorale Adr. Juss. for a species from southern South America. Because the publication dates of Hooker's Botanical Miscellany, the journal in which the basionym was published, are in part incorrectly given in the widely used reference Taxonomic Literature, the correct dates for all parts are listed and are based on a previously published review by H. S. Marshall.
2806131|Trachyphyllum is transferred from the Entodontaceae to the Thuidiaceae on the basis of correlated gametophytic and sporophytic characters. The genus is considered to consist of two subgenera: subg. Trachyphyllum for T. inflexum (with numerous new synonyms), T. gastrodes, T. dusenii and T. borgenii; and subg. Carinatum, subg. nov., for T. carinatum, T. jeyporense and T. touwianum, n. sp. All the species are keyed, described and Illustrated.
2805843|Further chromosome counts, principally from the southeastern United States, are reported for 38 accessions of 11 species, together with new or corrected counts for P. nudum (2n = 40), P. montanum (2n = 40), P. curvipes (2n = 40), and P. torrei (2n = 80). Four species have now been shown to have intraspecific polyploidy, five are known only as diploids, and nine occur only at the tetraploid level. Artificially produced interspecific hybrids range from vigorous to dwarfed or nonflowering, and from semifertile to sterile as measured by anther development and stainable pollen. Naturally ocurring hybrids are described for the following species combinations: P. clinopodioides X P. incanum, P. pilosum X P. virginianum, P. flexuosum X P. nudum, and P. albescens X P. loomisii.
2666621|Three new species of Swartzieae are described and illustrated: Swartzia alternifoliolata, S. capixabensis, and Zollernia cowanii. Swartzia apetala var. blanchetii and var. subcordata are considered to be synonyms of S. apetala var. apetala, and S. grazielana a synonym of S. macrostachya var. macrostachya. Keys to southeastern Brazil members of Swartzia and Zollernia are provided.
23254281|Clitopilus canariensis is described as a new species belonging to Clitopilus subgenus Rhodophana on the basis of a collection from La Palma, Canary Islands. The new species grows on humus of Cistus monspeliensis and is known from a single site. A photograph of fresh basidiomes of the type-collection and line drawings are provided.
2806244|Oreobroma megarhizum is reassigned to the genus Calandrinia and placed in the section Acaules. The biogeographic and evolutionary consequences are evaluated in relation to Oreobroma (Lewisia) and Calandrinia distribution patterns.
2807811|Miscellaneous observations on neotropical Fabales include descriptions of Entada polystachya var. simplicata Barneby, Chamaecrista arachiphylla Barneby and Ch. coradinii Barneby, and Swartzia invenusta Barneby; new combinations are proposed in genera Tachigali Aublet and Peltophorum Bentham; a key to American species of Peltophorum Vogel and new taxonomies for genera Schizolobium Vogel, Phyllocarpus Riedel, and Guibourtia Bennett are given.
23254271|Miconia walterjuddii, a new species of Melastomataceae from the mountains in northeast Cuba, is described. This species can be easily assigned to Miconia section Chaenopleura due to its short anthers that open by two longitudinal slits. Sequence data from nrlTS confirm this placement. This new species is characterized by its inconspicuous lepidote indumentum of minute adpressed scales ca. 0.05 mm long; small flowers in dichasia, forming a compact, many-flowered, rounded to subcorymbose cymes, with purple to fuchsia colored petals. Se describe Miconia walterjuddii, una especie nueva de las montaas del Noreste de Cuba. Esta especie puede ser fcilmente ubicada en Miconia seccin Chaenopleura dada la presencia de anteras cortas que abren por dos hendiduras longitudinales. Las secuencias de ADN de nrlTS confirman su posicin. Esta nueva especie se caracteriza por su indumento de escamas adpresas de ca. 0.05 mm de largo, flores pequeas con ptalos prpura a fucsia, en dicasios formando cimas compactas multifloras, redondeads a subcorimbosas.
2806552|Comarostaphylis sharpii is described from the vicinity of Rancho del Cielo near Gmez Faras in the Sierra de Guatemala of southwestern Tamaulipas, Mexico. It occurs in a narrow zone of Humid Pine-Oak Forest at elevations between 1200 and 2100 m.
4098955|Amorpheae (Fabaceae: Papilionoideae) was first considered a natural group by Rupert Barneby in his illustrated monograph Daleae Imagines. Amorpheae currently comprise eight genera, ca. 250 spp., and extensive floral diversity, including loss of corolla and addition of a stemonozone. The Amorpheae and many of Barneby's subtribal groups are supported as monophyletic by previous phylogenetic analysis of nuclear ribosomal and chloroplast sequence data. However, some relationships remain unclear. A nuclear marker derived from a genomic study in Medicago, CNGC4, was sequenced in selected Amorpheae. This is one of the first applications of this marker for phylogenetic study. The new data confirm some relationships inferred using trnK and ITS, but also provide evidence for new arrangements. Combined data were used to explore several aspects of Barneby's taxonomic framework. The phylogeny, in concert with data on floral morphology, implies that simplification of the complex papilionoid flower has occurred several times in the history of the Amorpheae.
4099026| Hasseltia allenii is described as a new species from the Pacific drainage of Costa Rica and Panama. It differs from other species of Hasseltia in its long petioles, ovate leaf shape, and glabrous staminal filaments. Data on its morphology, wood anatomy, pollen, and geographical distribution are presented, and a key is provided to distinguish the new species from other species of Hasseltia and closely related genera. The circumscriptions of two of the other species of Hasseltia are modified, and three lectotypes of Hasseltia are designated. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Hasseltia, H. allenii, de la vertiente Pacfica de Costa Rica y Panam. Se puede distinguir de las otras especies de Hasseltia por sus pecolos largos, hojas ovadas y estambres con los filamentos glabros. Se presentan datos sobre la morfologa, anatoma de madera, polen y distribucin geogrfica y se presenta una clave taxonmica para distinguir la especie nueva de las otras especies de Hasseltia y de gneros relacionados. Se modifican las circunscripciones de dos especies de Hasseltia y se designan tres lectotipos de Hasseltia. 
2806679|A new woody species, Valeriana rosaliana , is described from the Paramo del Rosal, Venezuela. This constitutes the seventh woody member of the genus known from Venezuela.
2666618|The new name Ruellia comonduensis is provided for the species previously known as R. cordata Brandegee. Ruellia chilpancingana, a new species known only from Guerrero in southwestern Mexico, is described and compared to morphologically similar species. It is unique among Mexican species of Ruellia based on the following combination of characters: caducous bracteoles and secondary bracteoles, multiflowered dichasia from leaf axils, yellowish and cylindric-funnelform corollas, exserted stamens, and few (four or fewer) seeds per capsule. Macromorphological features and pollen of R. chilpancingana are illustrated.
2806478|Two new taxa are described from California: Astragalus (sect. Flexuosi) shevockii from the Sierra Nevada in Tulare County representing a new subsect. Shevockiani; and A. lentiginosus var. piscinensis from an alkaline spring in Mono County. Rediscovery in Nevada of long-lost A. lentiginosus var. sesquimetralis and a new station for the same in Inyo County, California are reported.
2806240|Schimperella is a small African genus related to Rhynchostegium. It is characterized by non-complanate plants with erect capsules and reduced endostomes. Two species are recognized: S. katalensis and S. rhynchostegioides. A proposed synonym of S. rhynchostegioides, Rhynchostegium nervosum, is best placed in Isothecium, as Isothecium nervosum.
2806201|Study of Chenopodium incanum has revealed considerable variability in what has been viewed previously as a uniform species. Variation is correlated with geographic distribution, and thus two new varieties are described. Variety elatum Crawford occurs in western Texas, southern New Mexico and southern Arizona, whereas var. occidentale Crawford is restricted to the Great Basin and Mohave Desert. The var. incanum grows primarily on the western Great Plains and eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains. Morphological features serving to distinguish the varieties are presented and discussed. Also considered are the characters that allow the separation of C. incanum and C. fremontii.
2807869|Cyathea concordia, described herein, resembles C. palaciosii but can be distinguished by its indusiate sori, pinnae with hairs restricted to the veins, and nearly concolorous stem scales.
2805883|A revision of the genus Ceratopteris is presented based on comparative morphology and geographical distribution. Four species are recognized: C. thalictroides, C. cornuta, C. pteridoides, and C. richardii. Characteristics of taxonomic importance include frond length, shape, and dissection; stipe width; insertion of basal pinnae; bud development; habit; annlus cell number; spore number per sporangium; spore size; and spore surface features. Evolution within species and putative hybridization between species are discussed.
2806319|Two new combinations in Salmea are made in anticipation of their uses in other publications.
2805841| A taxonomic treatment is presented for the recognized species of Colubrina L. C. Rich. ex Brongn., with keys, synonymies, descriptions, typifications, and range maps or citations of specimens. A key is provided by which Colubrina can be distinguished from related genera. The 31 species of Colubrina are grouped in two subgenera. Within the subgen. Colubrina are recognized four sections: sect. Barcena (Dugs) M. C. Johnston with two species in Mexico and Central America; sect. Cowania M. C. Johnston, sect. nov., based on Hybosperma Urban (as a genus), with six tropical American species and including C. retusa var. latifolia (Reissek) M. C. Johnston, comb. nov., based on Cormonema spinosum var. latifolium Reissek; sect. Capuronia M. C. Johnston, sect. nov., based on Macrorhamnus Baillon (as a genus), with four Malagasy species and including C. faraloatra var. sinuata (H. Perrier) M. C. Johnston, comb. nov., based on Ziziphus sinuata H. Perrier, and C. faraloatra var. trichocarpa (R. Capuron) M. C. Johnston, comb. nov., based on C. faralotra ssp. trichocarpa R. Capuron; and sect. Colubrina with one species in Hawaii and four species in the American tropics, including C. obscura (Schrank) M. C. Johnston, comb. nov., based on Rhamnus obscura Schrank, and C. glandulosa var. antillana (M. C. Johnston) M. C. Johnston, comb. nov., based on C. rufa var. antillana M. C. Johnston, and C. glandulosa var. nipensis (M. C. Johnston) M. C. Johnston, comb. nov., based on C. nipensis M. C. Johnston, and C. glandulosa var. reitzii (M. C. Johnston) M. C. Johnston, comb. nov., based on C. rufa var. reitzii M. C. Johnston. The subgen. Serrataria M. C. Johnston includes five species of tropical Southeast Asia and nine of the warmer parts of North America; in this subgenus C. greggii Watson var. angustior is newly described from the Mexican states of Veracruz, Tamaulipas, and San Luis Potosi; and C. asiatica (L.) Brongn. var. subpubescens (Pitard) M. C. Johnston, comb. nov., is based on C. pubescens var. subpubescens Pitard. 
2806363|Scanning electron microscopy of foliar surfaces of the seven species of Fraxinus native in eastern North America confirms the importance of cuticular patterns (smooth, striated, striate-papillose, and coronulate) as useful taxonomic character states. There are three trichome types (acicular hairs ornamented with micro-striae or -papillae, peltate glands, and scales) which are found in nearly all species and which vary only in density. No differences in surface features are found by which determination can be made of either sex or ploidy level in F. americana. Hybridization between F. americana and F. pennsylvanica is considered to be rare in nature and is not a probable cause for the overlap of character states and concomitant difficulty of identification based upon gross morphological features. Likewise, the putative hybrid origins of F. biltmoreana and F. profunda are not supported by micro-morphological features. Illustrations are given for all species.
3218471| We describe, discuss, and illustrate four new species, one in Adiantum (A. capillatum A. R. Sm. & Prado, from Ecuador) and three species in Pteris (P. lellingeri A. R. Sm. & Prado, from Bolivia; P. venezuelensis A. R. Sm. & Prado, from Venezuela; and P. websteri A. R. Sm. & Prado, from Ecuador, Colombia, and Bolivia). /// [Spanish]Descrevemos, discutimos e ilustramos quatro espcies novas, uma em Adiantum (A. capillatum A. R. Sm. & Prado, do Equador) e trs em Pteris (P. lellingeri A. R. Sm. & Prado, da Bolvia; P. venezuelensis A. R. Sm. & Prado, da Venezuela e P. websteri A. R. Sm. & Prado, do Equador, Colmbia e Bolvia). 
2805510|Terpenoid data from seven species of Juniperus were used to examine: 1) the effect of using different character weights upon the same set of OTU's; 2) the effect of the organization of the initial data base by populations, individuals, and averages on statistical weights and the resulting classification; and 3) the effect of the use of exemplars on statistical weights and similarity measures. Cophenetic correlation and numerical taxonomy, along with certain relationships well documented for these species, were used to examine these questions. Equal weighting of characters, advocated by most numerical taxonomists, gave the most distored results. This was followed by the 1/coefficient of variation, then the weighting of $1-S_w/S_t$, $\sqrt {F-1}$ and finally F and F-1 weighting producing the highest fidelity to the known similarities. The use of either all individuals or random individuals appeared to be better than the use of population averages for some OTU's and individuals for other OTU's and much better than the use of population averages only. The use of exemplars has small effects, mostly causing the OTU's to cluster more loosely when exemplars were included in the computation of the statistical weights. The use of equal weighting is discussed and strongly discouraged in numerical taxonomy in favor of statistically derived weights.
2806127|Some of the earliest validly published subgeneric and sectional names for Penstemon that have been oberlooked or disregarded in recent years are recalled. Lectotype species are designated for sections Gentianoides G. Don and Saccanthera Benth.
30218809|A new combination, Asteropsis megapotamica, is made after studying specimens at Paris (P). A taxonomic revision of Asteropsis, with detailed descriptions, drawings, and images of A. megapotamica is presented. A lectotype for Neja macrocephala is designated. A discussion about generic relationships of Asteropsis and closely related genera is provided.
2805566|A New dwarf monocephalous arctic Erigeron, E. mexiae, is described and illustrated.
2806756|Width-to-length ratios of upper stem leaves of Lasallea novae-angliae and L. oblongifolia were determined from herbarium specimens a field collections. No distinct subgroups based on such ratios were found in either species. In L. novae-angliae the curve of the ratio versus number of individuals was skewed toward the narrow-leaf range. This phenomenon was present but less pronounced in L. oblongifolia. The histogram of leaf ratios for L. novae-angliae was somewhat weakly bimodal, suggesting a possible broad-leaf race, which has not been recognized nomenclaturally. The absence of bimodality in the histogram of leaf ratios for L. oblongifolia indicates the need to place Shinners' narrow-leaved variety angustatus in synonymy. Other traits such as height, degree of branching and the nature of the pubescence were also found to be no significance. Slight geographic trends in leaf width occur in both species. No real evidence was found for nomenclaturally recognizing any eastern variant in either species. Thus, Shinners' var. orientis is not recognized in L. oblongifolia either.
3218472|Passiflora contracta, a new species from coastal forests of Brazil, is described and illustrated. Based on recent collections, Passiflora hypoglauca and P. luetzelburgii, two rare and overlooked species last collected in the 19th century, have had their descriptions emended, are illustrated here for the first time, and have had their distributions expanded.
2805544|A new species in Parmelia subgenus Parmelia sect. Hypotrachyna, P. pustulifera, is described from southeastern United States. It is similar in chemistry and fine structure of the cortex to P. livida Taylor and in gross morphology to P. formosana Zahlbr.
41406763|Se describe como especie nueva a Ipomoea macdonaldii, encontrada en la zona costera del estado de Oaxaca, Mxico, en zonas con bosques tropicales subcaducifolios principalmente en altitudes menores de 200 m, aunque ocasionalmente cercana a los 1000 m. Es una planta herbcea trepadora, cuyas flores blancas, con estambres exsertos, abren por la noche. Pertenece al subgenero Eriospermum, y se encuentra mas relacionada a Ipomoea lottiae. Se presenta una ilustracin de I. macdonaldii, as como datos ecolgicos. Ipomoea macdonaldii is described as a new species apparently endemic to the southern coast of the state of Oaxaca, Mexico. This herbaceous vine has white, nocturnal flowers with exserted stamens. It occurs in lowland, subdeciduous forests at altitudes mostly less than 200 m, but occasionally up to 1000 m. It belongs to subgenus Eriospermum, and is closely related to Ipomoea lottiae. A description with notes on the ecology of the new taxon is presented. A drawing of the new species is presented along with ecological information.
4497358|About 25 years ago, a revolution began in evolutionary studies of seed-free vascular plants. Whereas common wisdom and laboratory-based observations had averred that minute spores and inbreeding of individual bisexual gametophytes diminished barriers to long distance migration, genetic analyses of sporophyte populations demonstrated outcrossing breeding systems that required two spores for each successful migration event. After those population-based discoveries, the processes controlling biogeographic patterns of ferns appeared to resemble those of seed plants, and vicariance took on renewed significance. More recently, data from DNA sequencing predicted that some of the most diverse extant fern families originated after the isolation of major land masses, and these new hypotheses also demanded fresh consideration of biogeographic assumptions. The Polypodiaceae yield phylogenetic insights through integration of DNA sequence analysis and biogeography. New evidence shows separate yet simultaneous radiations in the New and Old Worlds. By combining sequence data, vicariance, and a reassessment of morphological features, new family and generic boundaries are obtained. Contributors to this symposium discovered similar patterns in the systematics and biogeography of the seed-free vascular plants they studied. Although long distance migration remains an important factor in explaining fern distributions, local and recent radiations that result in species complexes are also significant in explaining fern biogeography.
2807010|Three new Peruvian species belonging to the tribe Senecioneae (Asteraceae) are described, illustrated and their relationships discussed: Gynoxys colanensis, G. lopezii, and Pentacalia barbourii.
23254247|A new species of Eriotheca (Bombacoideae, Malvaceae) is described and illustrated. The species, Eriotheca bahiensis, is known only from Bahia, Brazil in southern Bahian forest (floresta pluvial dos tabuleiros) and is probably restricted to that habitat. A key including the new and morphologically similar species is also presented.
2807022|Asarum marmoratum Piper, a species with marbled leaves from southern Oregon and northern California, differs from A. hartwegii S. Wats. in many respects, and should be recognized as distinct. The species is described, illustrated, and compared to the four other western North American species of Asarum in a synoptic key.
2807024|Two new species are described in Begonia section Gireoudia: B. rafael-torresii and B. mariti. Begonia karwinskyana, known previously only from its type, is described more amply and discussed.
3218382|Inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) banding patterns were used to examine genetic diversity within and among populations of Monarda fistulosa var. brevis, a rare taxon restricted to several populations in limestone glades and barrens in eastern West Virginia and Virginia. More than 34% of the total ISSR diversity in var. brevis occurred among populations, which is high when compared to the few other rare species that have been examined for ISSR variation. Prior studies demonstrated that var. brevis is morphologically distinct from the more widespread var. fistulosa, and that the differences are maintained when the two varieties are grown together in a uniform environment. The present study utilizing ISSR markers indicated that the two varieties are distinct, though quite similar genetically, and this is concordant with prior investigations documenting their morphological and habitat differences. However, the ISSR results suggest that the two varieties have diverged relatively recently and/or there is a low level of gene flow between them.
2806468|Six Thai species of Fimbristylis, including two new ones, are taxonomically discussed, and some range extensions into Burma are reported. Described as new are Fimbristylis kernii from the neighborhood of F. hookeriana, and F. smitinandii, a clearcut species of the section Abildgaardia.
3218479|Castilleja holmgrenii is described from several collections made in the Sierra Madre Occidental in southeast Sinaloa and adjacent southwest Durango, Mexico. The new species is a member of subgenus and section Castilleja. This apparently rare species is presently known from two small, geographically restricted populations. Also provided are a list of the Castilleja species of this region with notes on their status and distribution, a key for their identification, and nomenclatural and taxonomic notes concerning some of the species.
2805848|Two new species from upland Panama, Licania chiriquiensis Prance (Chrysobalana-ceae), and Dichapetalum gentryi Prance (Dichapetalaceae), are described and illustrated, and their relationships within their respective genera are discussed.
2666612|The new combination Gurania lobata (Cucurbitaceae) is made for Anguria lobata, an overlooked Linnaean name published in the original edition of Plantae Surinamenses, and G. spinulosa is treated as synonymous with this species.
2805497|A systematic treatment is presented for the 14 recognized taxa of sect. Tetrodus, with synonymies, typifications, descriptions, discussions, and range maps. In addition a brief conspectus of Helenium in North America is presented recognizing five sections: sect. Hecubaea (DC.) Gray with two species in Mexico; sect. Leptopoda (Nutt.) Wood with six species in the eastern and southeastern United States; sect. Tetrodus (Cass.) DC. with 14 taxa in the western and southwestern United States, Mexico, and Central America; sect. Helenium with one species widespread throughout the United States and parts of Canada; and sect. Amarum Bierner, sect. nov., typified by Helenium amarum (Raf.) Rock, with two species in the southern and the southeastern United States. The conceptus includes keys to the sections, species, and varieties; range maps; and a discussion of each section.
2806139|A new species of Ceratozamia (Cycadaceae) from San Luis Potosi, Mexico is described. This species differs from all others in the genus by the clustering of leaflets along the rachis.
2807833|The nine species of the genus Allomarkgrafia are treated synoptically, with a review of their systematics and nomenclature. Two new species, Allomarkgrafia ecuatoriana and A. insignis, and a new combination, Allomarkgrafia campanulata, are proposed here.
2807874|Three new, endemic species of Commelinaceae from central and southern Somalia are described. Aneilema trispermum is unique in the genus in having capsules with three one-seeded locules. The annual, buff-orange-flowered Commelina arenicola differs from the annual C. subulata Roth and related perennials in having a capsule with an indehiscent dorsal locule. Commelina frutescens has a unique shrubby habit.
2805716|Lisianthius adamsii, from the central and western parishes of Jamaica, is described as new. It is remarkable in having coriaceous leaves and ventricose corollas.
2806148|The itinerary of W. H. Camp and his assistants in Ecuador has been reconstructed from fieldbooks deposited in the archives of the library at The New York Botanical Garden. The visited localities are listed according to collection numbers, an alphabetical list of the localities with geographical coordinates or best approximation is provided, and a map is presented showing the area where most numbers were collected.
30218818|Pinus georginae is described and illustrated as a new endemic species from the valleys in the southern basin of Ro Ameca, Jalisco, western Mexico. It is closely related to Pinus praetermissa; however, after studying the cones and anatomy of the leaves in detail, characteristics were revealed that identify P. georginae as a distinct species. /// Se describe e ilustra Pinus georginae como una especie nueva, endmica de algunos valles intermontanos al sur del Ro Ameca, Jalisco, en el Occidente de Mxico. Los rboles se parecen a Pinus praetermissa; sin embargo, al estudiar con detalle los conos y la anatoma de las acculas lo ubican a Pinus georginae como una entidad biolgica con categora especfica independiente.
2806682|Three new combinations are made and three new species are described; all are Malpighiaceae.
2805929|A taxonomic treatment based upon morphology is presented for the recognized North American species of Vernonia sect. Eremosis (DC.) Benth & Hook. Keys, synonymies, descriptions, typifications, and range maps or specimen citations are given for the 20 species in the section. A new species, V. macvaughii, is described from Oaxaca, Mexico. V. obtusa ssp. parkeri is described as new from Hidalgo, Mexico, and Vernonia duncanii ssp. duncanii and ssp. bartlettii are described from Tamaulipas, Mexico. Two changes in rank are made: V. palmeri is reduced to V. triflosculosa ssp. palmeri, and V. salicifolia var. baadii is raised to V. baadii. One taxon, V. calderonii, is shown to be of hybrid origin. Sect. Critoniopsis (Sch. Bip.) Benth. & Hook. is combined with sect. Eremosis (DC.) Benth. & Hook. Chromosome numbers of n=17, 18, 19, 36, and 37+-1 are reported. The sesquiterpene lactones, glaucolides A, B, C, D, E, F, and G, are found in the section.
2807133|Astragalus bibullatus Barneby & Bridges, a relative of A. crassicarpus Nutt. vicariant in cedar glades of central Tennessee, is described and illustrated, and its restricted habitat and associated species are discussed.
2807214|A new genus, Oldenlandiopsis, is proposed, based on Oldenlandia callitrichoides Griseb., native to the West Indies, southern Mexico, and Central America. Relationships to Oldenlandia and Lucya, the latter with 6-aperturate pollen, are discussed. The major character differences between the new genus and Oldenlandia are in pollen structure, chromosome number, capsule shape and dehiscence, and seed shape and number.
2805501|Hedyotis correllii is newly described as endemic to the Rio Grande Plains of southern Texas. It is closely allied to H. humifusa by gross and micromorphological characters.
2807268| In the Miconieae (Melastomataceae) the inflorescences may be either lateral (with shoots pleonanthic and plants showing Rauh's architectural model) or terminal (with shoots hapaxanthic and plants illustrating Leeuwenberg's, or less commonly Scarrone's or Stone's, architectural models). Inflorescence position is a valuable taxonomic character in the tribe and is usually uniform within genera or species groups. An analysis of variation of this character elucidates the complex and difficult generic delimitations within the tribe. Ossaea DC. and Clidemia D. Don, as presently delimited, contain both terminal- and axillary-flowered species and are undoubtedly polyphyletic assemblages. Some groups, e.g., Clidemia sect. Clidemia, Leandra Raddi sect. Chaetodon Cogn., Ossaea sect. Octopleura (Griseb.) Cogn., and Myrmidone Mart., have species that develop pseudolateral inflorescences, i.e., the terminal nature of the inflorescence is obscured by the early development of an axillary bud which continues growth of the branch. Pseudolateral inflorescences seem to have evolved several times within the tribe, and Clidemia sect. Clidemia likely evolved from the obviously terminal-flowered Heterotrichum DC. and Miconia Ruz & Pavn sect. Octomeris Hook. f. (p.p.); Myrmidone and Microphysca Naud. are closely related to Tococa Aublet; and Leandra sect. Chaetodon (and probably also Ossaea sect. Octopleura) show affinity with the remaining sections of Leandra. 
2807001|Winona Welch's contributions to lichenology are reviewed. An index of the collectors of lichens represented in the DePauw University Herbarium (DPU), now at the New York Botanical Garden (NY), and lists of the Indiana lichen records included are presented. The gift of a few lichens froms Wabash College (WAB) is noted.
2806164|Three new species, Cladocolea biflora Kuijt, Struthanthus condensatus Kuijt, and S. lojae Kuijt are described and six new combinations, Cladocolea diversifolia (Benth.) Kuijt, C. lenticellata (Diels) Kuijt, Dendrophthora virgata (Trel.) Kuijt, Korthalsella chilensis (Hook. & Arn.) Kuijt, Phthirusa retroflexa (Ruiz & Pavon) Kuijt, and Struthanthus flexilis (Rusby) Kuijt are proposed. Nomenclature of two more neotropical Loranthaceae, Psittacanthus ramiflorus (DC.) G. Don and Struthanthus interruptus (H. B. K.) Blume is revised.
2806425|Three new species of Chrysobalanaceae from South America are described: Couepia bernardii, Hirtella barnebyi and H. confertiflora. The Couepia guianensis complex is discussed, redefined and divided into three subspecies that include material previously recognized as separate species. Observations are also made on recent collections of three poorly known species of Hirtella, H. araguariensis, H. dorvalii and H. leonotis.
4098982| Se presenta una sinopsis del gnero Thoreauea (Apocynoideae, Echiteae), incluyendo una clave para las dos taxa del gnero y la descripcin de T. aberrans, una nueva especie de Veracruz, M xico. Se incluye una clave para los gneros neotropicales de la subfamilia Apocynoideae, tribu Echiteae con estructuras coronales. /// A brief synopsis of the genus Thoreauea (Apocynoideae, Echiteae) is presented here, including a key to the taxa, and the description of T. aberrans, a new species from Veracruz, Mexico. A key to the neotropical genera of the subfamily Apocynoideae, tribe Echiteae with corolline structures is included. 
2805620|Diploid (2n = 36) plants of Epilobium latifolium L. have been found in Alaska and the western Cordillera of North America, and tetraploids in Iceland, western Greenland, and southeastern Quebec. Study of the morphology of these chromosome races revealed a character, the number of pores in the pollen grains, by which they could be distinguished with an average probability of 75%. Tetraploids of E. latifolium tend to have high percentages of 4-pored pollen, while the diploids usually have only 3-pored pollen. On this basis, the ranges of the races were extrapolated from herbarium material. Detailed comparisons of eight other features of the presumptive diploids and tetraploids showed no significant difference between them. The races appear to form worldwide, allopatric, ecogeographic phases. A high level (57.4%) of quadrivalent formation observed during tetraploid meiosis, and other considerations, indicate that the tetraploids arose by autopolyploidy. The recommendation is made that the races not be given formal taxonomic recognition.
2806007|The new combination Thamnocalamus spathaceus is made.
3218336|A new species of Cyatheaceae is described and illustrated: Cyathea bettinae. It is a small tree fern from the mountain forest of northwestern Bolivia.
2807054| Jaltomata whalenii, a rare species endemic to the Ro San Benito drainage in the department of Cajamarca, Per, is described and illustrated. The delimitation and relationships of the genus Jaltomata are briefly discussed. 
2807607| Ouratea saulensis, Ochnaceae sect. Kaieteuria from the vicinity of Sal in central French Guiana is described and Illustrated. 
2806022|Chromosome numbers are reported for 79 populations of Penstemon representing 20 species. All but two species counted here are diploids. First counts are reported for seven taxa, all as n = 8 or n = 16.
2807017| Three new species of Stenandrium, S. hatschbachii from Minas Gerais, S. goiasense from Gois, and S. irwinii also from Gois, are described, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives. 
3218478|Somatic chromosomes of Stangeria eriopus (Stangeriaceae, Cycadales) were investigated by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) using an 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) probe. Stangeria eriopus showed a chromosome number of 2n = 16 with a karyotype of 12 median-, 2 subterminal-, and 2 terminal-centromeric chromosomes. FISH study of S. eriopus revealed 16 signals made up of rDNA sites located on the terminal regions of the long arms of the 7 median- and 2 subterminal-centromeric chromosomes, on terminal region of the short arm of the 1 median-centromeric chromosome, on the terminal regions of the long and the short arms of 1 median- and 2 terminal-centromeric chromosomes. This result suggests that, not only karyomorphologically but also molecular-cytologically, the genus Stangeria may be more closely related to the genus Ceratozamia than the genus Bowenia or the genus Microcycas previously hypothesized.
2806494|Notes on morphology and chromosome numbers are given for several species of Mexican Coreopsis, most of which were poorly known prior to recent collections. Coreopsis parvifolia (section Elctra) is a large, shrubby, octoploid (2n=112) species apparently restricted to a small area in Puebla. It and C. cuneifolia (a diploid with 2n=28) appear to be closely related but differ by a number of morphological features in addition to ploidy level. A first chromosome report for C. pringlei (section Pseudoagarista) shows this rare species to be diploid (2n=26), a fact which is in agreement with the base number of the section, i.e., x=13. Additional collections of the very rare C. rudis and C. mcvaughii show them to be similar yet distinct species. Chromosomes determinations for C. petrophila from Nayarit and Durango agree with previous counts for Jalisco populations of the species, i.e., 2n=26. Considerable morphological variation exists within this species but no subspecific entities are recognized.
2806740|A study analysing the pubescence pattern of leaflets, branchlets and bracts, leaflet size and shape, leaflet apex shape, number of leaflets per leaf, leaflet phyllotaxy, flower size, fruit size and shape, pollinic tetrad size, and exine exine sculpture pattern of the genus Magonia St. Hil. proved that distinction between the two species M. glabrata St. Hil. and M. pubescens St. Hil. is not possible because of the continuous gradient of these characteristics. The results led to the conclusion that the genus Magonia is monospecific, and it was decided that the valid name should be Magonia pubescens St. Hil., of which the name Magonia glabrata St. Hil. is now a synonym.
2806526|Mikania macrostipulata sp. nov. is described, illustrated, and discussed. Mikania dioscoreoides, M. sprucei, and M. trifolia are reported new to Peru. The heterogeneity of the type material of M. stereodes is also discussed.
2805869|This study demonstrates the occurrence of 29 oil components in 20 ragweed species and in species from related genera. The occurrence of each of the 29 volatile compounds in all species examined supports an interpretation of the complex as a natural assemblage. Evidence suggests that the oils are under genetic control. However, strong support linking oil variation and patterns of relationship hypothesized on morphological grounds was lacking, except for the tendency of morphologically less-specialized elements to have greater amounts of the components with lower retention times. This lack of correlation may be related in part to intraspecific variability.
30218772|Vochysia palmirana is described and illustrated as a new species. It is a member of sect. Vochysiella subsect. Decorticantes. It grows in sandy Cerrados of the Central Brazilian Plateau and is similar to V sessilifolia. A key to the species of Vochysia sect. Vochysiella subsect. Decorticantes is provided.
2807464|Casabitoa perfae Alain (Euphorbiaceae) was re-discovered in Alto de Casabito, Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic and was found to be identical with Picramnia dictyoneura (Urban) Urban (Simaroubaceae).
2806654|The dispersal mechanisms of 37 species of plants which occur on Amazonian white sand campinas were studied. 75.67 percent of the species have the potential for long distance diaspore dispersal, including 59.46 percent which are bird-dispersed. This dispersal disharmony towards long-distance dispersal and especially towards ornithochory is characteristic of islands in general. The campinas of the lower Rio Negro region of Amazonia may be treated biogeographically as islands surrounded by large areas of tropical rain forest. A total of eight dispersal types was observed and details of these mechanisms are presented. The type of germination of many of the species studied is reported for the first time.
23254278|Dalea conetensis, a new species from the central part of the State of Durango, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is referred to Dalea subgenus Parosela sect. Parosela series Versicolores. It is morphologically similar to D. pinetorum var. pinetorum but can be distinguished by its shorter stipules, leaves, bracts, calyx teeth, petals, androecium, fewer and shorter leaflets, and the calyx pubescence. Dalea conetensis es descrita de la parte central del estado de Durango, Mxico. Pertenece al subgnero Parosela seccin Parosela serie Versicolores. Es morfolgicamente muy similar a Dalea pinetorum var. pinetorum pero se distingue por sus estpulas ms cortas, hojas ms pequeas, con menor nmero de fololos por hoja y de menor tamao de, brcteas ms pequeas, pubescencia del cliz, y dientes del cliz, ptalos y androceo ms cortos.
2806556|A new species, Najas filifolia, is described and compared to its nearest relative. A lectotype of N. ancistrocarpa is designated herein.
2805448|A robust, yellow-flowered Nemastylis from the state of Colima, Mexico, is described as new.
2805457|Cronquistia, a new genus in the Compositae Eupatorieae, is described on the basis of Stevia pringlei S. Watson. S. simulans B. L. Robinson is reduced to synonymy under S. pringlei.
2807117| An examination of the externall morphology of a recent collection from Araracuara, Colombia, has suggested that the plant belongs to the primarily Old World family Dipterocarpaceae. A study of the wood, bark, and pith anatomy of this new taxon, Pseudomonotes tropenbosii Londoo, Alvarez & Forero, was undertaken to help confirm its systematic affinities. Comparisons of Pseudomonotes with data from the literature and reference wood slides, coupled with the use of computer-aided identification keys, support the view that its closest relationships probably are within the family Dipterocarpaceae. Detailed anatomical comparisons have reveled that Pseudomonote's relationships are most likely to be with the subfamily Monotoideae, comprised of the African genera Monotes A. DC. and Marquesia Gilg. 
2807418|Five species previously included in Forsstroemia Lindb, are excluded: F. leptodontoidea Buck is a synonym of Miyabea fruticella (Mitt.) Broth. (Thuidiaceae); F. rigida Dix. becomes Neolindbergia plicata Stark & Buck, nom. nov. (Prionodontaceae); F. dixonii Tosco & Piovano is a synonym of Levierella fabroniacea C. Mull. (Fabroniaceae); F. filiformis M. X. Zhang becomes Leptopterigynandrum filiforme (M. X. Zhang) Stark & Buck, comb. nov. (Leskeaceae); and F. secunda Dix. & Badhw. is placed in a new genus, Bryonorrisia Stark & Buck, as B. secunda (Dix & Badhw.) Stark & Buck, comb. nov. (Anomodontaceae).
2807759|Euceraea rheophytica is newly described and illustrated. It differs from the two other species in the genus, E. nitida and E. sleumeriana, in its much smaller and narrower leaves and in its smaller, spicate (vs. branched) inflorescences. It is known only from frequently flash-flooded riverbanks in the large, central canyon of the Sierra de la Neblina massif in southernmost Venezuela.
2806765|A comprehensive study of floral and vegetative anatomy of the monotypic New Caledonian genus Strasburgeria Baillon was undertaken to provide a more thorough and accurate generic description, and to help clarify the evolutionary relationships of the plant. Detailed descriptions of leaf, stem, nodal, wood, floral, fruit, and seed morphology and anatomy are presented. In general, vegetative characters are primitive whereas those of the reproductive organs are regarded as advanced or specialized. Strasburgeria is envisioned as an early and independent offshoot from the thealean ancestral stock. It appears that the most appropiate treatment of the genus is to recognize the family Strasburgeriaceae and put it adjacent to the Ochnaceae in the current widely accepted manner.
2806836|Chromolaena ternicapitulata is described from Sierra de Maigualida in T. F. Amazonas and a Key to the species of Chromolaena from Guayana is given. Newly documented for the flora of Venezuela are M. aschersonii Hieron. and M. amazonica Baker, the second herein resurrected from the synonymy of common and widespread M. sprucei Baker. Mikania karsteniana Klot. ex Hieron. is not considered synonymous with M. Pannosa Baker, thus the latter is again considered to be endemic to Guayana.
2807258|A new species, Bouvardia hintoniorum, is described and illustrated. Its relationships seemingly lie with the ternate-leaved species, especially Bouvardia leiantha.
2807567|Yucca linearifolia is described, illustrated, and distinguished from other yucca species. Its distinctive combination of fleshy fruit and narrow, linear, denticulate leaves sets it apart from all other yuccas.
2806687|Terebraria Kuntze (1903), formerly known as Laugeria Hooker (1873) non Linnaeus (1764), has been found to be a later homonym of Terebraria Greville (1864) and is renamed as Neolaugeria. The new combinations, Neolaugeria apiculata, N. densiflora and N. resinosa are proposed, and a key, synonymies and specimen citations (US) are provided for these species. Terebraria hotteana and T. lineolata are synonymized under N. apiculata.
2807085| Three hectares of Amazonian terra firme forest and an adjacent one-half hectare of vrzea forest were quantitatively inventoried at O Deserto, on the Rio Xingu, Par, Brazil. In the terra firme forest, 1420 individual trees greater than ten cm dbh, in 39 families and 265 species, were inventoried. In the vrzea forest, there were 220 individual trees, in 17 families and 40 species. Cenostigma macrophyllum and Orbignya sp. were the most important species in the terra firme forest; Mollia lepidota and Leonia glycycarpa were most important in the vrzea forest. Among one-hectare subplots of the total three-hectare terra firme sample, the number of trees ranged from 393 to 460, the number of families was a constant 33, and the number of species ranged from 118 to 162. This variation indicates that one-hectare samples are too small to be used to estimate the species richness of the total forest. The terra firme foret was richer in species and had a greater stature than the varzea forest. 
2807835| Solanum jabrense is apparently rare, and is only known from few collections in the Pico do Jabre of the state of Paraba, Brazil. It is illustrated and its affinities with the informal Erythrotrichum group are discussed. 
2666589|Licuala taynguyensis is a new species of understory palm known only from the Dak Lak Province of the Central Highlands of Vietnam where it is locally common at elevations of 800-1000 m.
2806217|Raveniopsis breweri, from the summit of Auyan-tepui, a table mountain of the Venezuelan Guayana Highland, is described. It is the fifteenth species now known in the genus, wholly restricted to the Venezuelan Guayana Highland. A key to all the species described up to the present time is included.
2806931| Boletus pyrrhosceles (section Luridi) is newly described from Dept. Nario, where it is associated with Quercus humboldtii. This is the first report of a red-pored bolete from Colombia. 
2807701|This treatment provides a key, brief synonymy, habitat descriptions, distribution, and vernacular names for the 41 taxa (39 species) of Dalbergia known from Brazil. In addition, it defines the major subdivisions of the genus and one new section. One new name and a new combination are proposed, and three new species (D. elegans, D. grandistipula, and D. guttembergii) are described and illustrated.
2807721|A population of Schisandra glabra (Schisandraceae) found in the cloud forest of northestern Hidalgo state, Mexico, represents a new family for the Mexican flora and the first record for the species outside of the southeastern United States. Morphological comparisons of foliar and floral characteristics of this population with southeaster U.S. specimens reveal the material in both countries to be similar in morphology and apparently conspecific. Schisandra glabra is the only species of the family on the American continent. We speculate that the disjunct distribution of the Mexican population is the result of the gradual contraction of an otherwise wider distribution in connection with climatological changes associated with the Tertiary. The species is described and illustrated to familiarize students interested in the Mexican flora with the species and family.
41406772|A new species of Cremosperma (Gesneriaceae, tribe Beslerieae) is described from the Choc floristic region of the western Andean slopes of northern Ecuador and southern Colombia. The dorsiventral shoots and strongly anisophyllous leaves differentiate Cremosperma anisophyllum from all other congeners. Se describe una nueva especie de Cremosperma (Gesneriaceae, tribu Beslerieae) de los bosques nublados de la region florstica Choc en las faldas de los Andes en el Norte de Ecuador y el Sur de Colombia. Las ramas dorsiventrales y la hojas anisfilas distinguen a Cremosperma anisophyllum de otras congneres.
4098977| Blechnum obtusum is described and illustrated as a new species. It grows in pramos of western Venezuela and most resembles B. werffii of Costa Rica and Panama. 
4497326|Meiotic chromosome numbers are reported for 12 species in eight genera of Acanthaceae from Madagascar. Chromosome numbers of 11 species are reported for the first time. Counts in Mendoncia (n = 19) and Neuracanthus (n = 20) are the first for these genera. A new chromosome number (n = 30) is reported in Justicia. Systematic implications of the chromosome counts are addressed and basic chromosome numbers for these eight genera of Malagasy Acanthaceae are discussed.
2806251|Two species of Cymopterus are described as new: Cymopterus douglassi from the Lost River and Lembi ranges of central Idaho and the closely related C. williamsii from the southern half of the Big Horn Mountains, Wyoming. Both are diploid on the base x = 11 and occur on calcareous or dolomitic substrates. The mature fruit of Cymopterus williamsii differ from those of C. douglassii in the absence of a functioning carpophore and in having 1, not 3-5 oil tubes in the intervals. Both species are unusual in the genus, though not unique, in that the dorsal ribs of the mericarps are not winged.
40793373|Pentagonia lanciloba, a new species of Rubiaceae (Hippotideae) from the wet forests of northwestern Ecuador, is described. This new species is characterized by pinnatifid leaf blades with tapered and long-decurrent subsessile bases, floral bracts with long-acuminate to caudate apices, calyces with narrowly-lanceolate and remarkably long lobes (15-28 mm), and tomentose, orange to red corollas. The new species is illustrated, and its relationship to morphologically similar species is discussed. Se describe Pentagonia lanciloba, una nueva especie de Rubiaceae (Hippotideae) de los bosques muy hmedos del noroccidente de Ecuador. Esta nueva especie se caracteriza por presentar lminas pinnatfidas de bases gradualmente angostas, decurrentes y subssiles, brcteas florales rojas con pices largos-acuminados o caudados, clices con lbulos angosto-lanceolados, distintivamente ms largos (15- 28 mm) y corolas tomentosas anaranjadas o rojas. Esta nueva especie es ilustrada y sus relaciones con las especies morfolgicamente ms cercanas son aqu discutidas.
40648101|The seed morphology of 79 species of neotropical Miconieae (Melastomataceae) is presented. These species have been chosen, in majority, from the polyphyletic genus Leandra. A few other species from the polyphyletic genera Miconia, Ossaea, and Clidemia were also sampled, because of potential similarities. Sixteen morphological seed types are defined after analysis through light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The seed morphology appears to possess a great deal of variability on the level of the overall shape as well as the structure and the surface of the testa. The different types defined here do not match with genera or sections, but rather are composed of species coming from different genera. In comparison with a preliminary molecular phylogeny study done on Leandra, some types of seeds are related to well supported clades. In some cases seed morphology corresponds with natural groups of species, thus being of high phylogenetic importance.
30218767|Two new species of Galipea are described and illustrated: Galipea maxima, which is known from the wet forests of Ecuador, and Peru, and Galipea ramiflora, from Bolivia and Peru. Their main diagnostic features are pointed out, and a brief discussion on the relationships of the new taxa to other species of Galipea is provided.
2666534|Recent collections have brought to light the following new species from the states of Tabasco and Oaxaca, Mexico: Byttneria fluvialis (Sterculiaceae) from Tabasco; Bakeridesia amoena (Malvaceae), and Triumfetta calzadae (Tiliaceae) from Oaxaca.
2806733|A systematic key to and descriptions of the 15 Mexican species of Dichanthelium are presented. One new species, D. macrospermum, is described and two. D. viscidellum (Scribner) Gould and D. albomaculatum (Scribner) Gould, are transferred from Panicum. Two varieties are recognized in the type species. D. dichotomum (L.) Gould, var. dichotomum and var. tenue (Muhl.) Gould & Clark, and four in the polymorphic and widespread D. acuminatum (Swartz) Gould & Clark: var. acuminatum, var. villosum (A. Gray) Gould & Clark, var. implicatum (Scribner) Gould & Clark, and var. lindheimeri (Nash) Gould & Clark.
2805882|Described as new are Smilax biumbellata of the affinity of S. nervo-marginata, S. siamensis of the affinity of S. perfoliata, and two others in Smilax sect. Macranthae: S. inversa and S. pachysandroides. Smilax inversa (characterized by strongly deflexed leaves and inflorescences on zigzag stems) and S. pachysandroides (with subsessile leaves on low simple stems) show no close resemblance to any previously known species of the section.
2806224|The genus Oxitheca of western North America and temperate South America consists of seven species which are keyed, described, discussed, illustrated, and mapped. They are divided among sect. Oxitheca, sect. Acanthoscyphus stat. & comb. nov., and sect. Neoxitheca sect. nov. Oxitheca dendroidea subsp. chilensis is given as a new combination, while O. parishii var. cienegensis and O. parishii var. goodmaniana are described as new. The history and relationships of the genus are discussed. It is retained as distinct from Eriogonum and is thought to have arisen from the larger genus near E. spergulinum, E. parishii, and E. apiculatum in subgenus Ganysma. Cytological data indicated n=20.
2806324|Sucrea, a new genus of herbaceous bambusoid grasses is based on the newly described species, S. monophylla. Also belonging to this genus is another new species, S. maculata, and the taxon originally named Olyra sampaiana. The new genus is contrasted in a key with others of its tribe Olyreae, and a key is given to its three species.
2807077|Alzateaceae is a rarely collected monotypic family (order Myrtales) whose relationships, until recently, have been obscure and controversial. Known previously from a few sites in Costa Rica, Panama, Peru, and Bolivia, it is here reported for the first time from a geographically intermediate locality-a cloud forest of the Cerro del Torra, Departamento del Choco, Colombia. The Chocoan population belongs to the Central American subspecies (Alzatea verticillata subsp. amplifolia S. A. Graham), rather than subsp. verticillata of Peru and Bolivia. Explanations for the present geographic distribution are considered.
2806055|Lopholejeunea subgenus a Pteryganthus is described as new based upon the Mauritian plant L. sphaerophora (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Steph. Lopholejeunea utriculata Steph. from Madagascar is included as well. Lopholejeunea sinuata (Mitt.) Steph, is reduced to synonymy with L. sphaerophora. The two species of subgenus Pteryganthus are compared with L. herzogiana Verd. and L. pullei Verd., two Malaysian species with superficially similar lobule construction, but not of the Pteryganthus type.
2806199|Two new monotypic genera, Didonica and Utleya, are described, with D. pendula from Panama and U. costaricensis from Costa Rica. Disterigma trimera (Panama), D. utleyorum (Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, and Ecuador), Lateropora santafeensis (Panama), Lysiclesia panamensis (Panama), Macleania talamancensis (Costa Rica), Themistoclesia costaricensis (Costa Rica) and T. horquetensis (Panama), Vaccinium costaricense and V. orosiense (both from Costa Rica) and V. jefense (Panama) are all described as new. New combinations are provided for the Panamanian Vaccinium floccosum (=Symphysia floccosa) and the West Indian Vaccinium racemosum (=Symphysia racemosa). Keys are provided for the Central American Species of Disterigma and Themistoclesia, the species of Lateropora and Lysiclesia, and the Costa Rican and Panamanian species of Vaccinium. Six new species are illustrated.
3218541|The several names and ranks given to the North American group of Smilax with biovulate locules together with both herbaceous and non-prickly stems are listed chronologically and discussed nomenclaturally. It is concluded that this group of approximately nine species should be known at the generic rank as Nemexia Raf. or at the rank of subgenus as Smilax subgenus Luiste Raf. or at section rank as Smilax section Nemexia (Raf.) A. DC.
2806176|Analysis of the chromosomal status of the 12 taxa of Sedum section Gormania reveals a euploid series of n = 15, 30, and 45. Although plants of all taxa are self-compatible in varying degrees, those of the narrow endemics exhibit a high level of self-compatibility while the plants of all but one of the more widely distributed taxa tend to be weakly self-compatible or rarely self-incompatible. The narrow endemics include four diploids, all putative relicts, and two tetraploids. The widely distributed taxa include four diploids, one tetraploid, and one hexaploid. The differences in ploidal level and the degree of self-compatibility are assessed with respect to their possible roles in the evolutionary history of section Gormania.
2807572|A new species of Acanthaceae (Ruellia salensis) is described and illustrated from French Guiana, and three new combinations (Justicia potarensis, J. flaviflora, and J. tobagensis) and one new name (Justicia coppenamensis) are proposed. The new species is compared to its closest relative (Ruellia rubra), and a justification of the transfers is provided.
2806582|The genus Hyperbaena consists of 19 species native to tropical America, extending from the islands of the Caribbean and central Mexico south through Central America and South America to northern Argentina and Bolivia. A history of the genus, a key to the species, descriptions and discussions of the species are given, and H. standleyi (Honduras) is described as new.
2806257|A new genus, Kerianthera, and its single new species, K. preclara, are presented. Kerianthera is a member of tribe Condamineeae and is easily distinguished from related genera by its 4-merous calyx, 7 or 8-merous corolla, stamens separating from the corolla tube at its apex, anthers with approximately 300 locelli, septicidal capsules, and seeds irregularly biwinged. It is most similar phenetically to the genus Pinckneya with which it shares foliar calyx lobes on some flowers, corolla lobes densely pubescent on the inner surface, and winged seeds.
2805862|Computerization of the Edward Lee Greene Herbarium at Notre Dame is described. Reasons for the justification of such a project and the steps involved in data accumulation and data processing are presented. Results are or will be available in two forms: 1) formal publications containing summary information, including information on the more than 4400 taxa that Greene named; and 2) a computarized data bank that today can provide answers to questions from individual systematists about the 65,000 specimens. Problems in automation are discussed, as are the relation of this project to similar ones. Finally, an invitation is extended to readers to query the data bank without cost.
3218440|A third species of the until recently monotypic genus Distichochlamys (Zingiberaceae) is described from living and preserved material collected in northern Vietnam. Distichochlamys rubrostriata is distinguished from the original species, D. citrea, and the recently described D. orlowii, on the basis of leaf, inflorescence bract, lateral staminode, and labellum characters.
2806534|The name Salix conifera Wangenh. is considered and its identity is shown to be the same as the hybrid S. discolor x humilis. It is lectotypified by Wangenheim's figure supplemented by his description and diagnosis.
41406768|Recent bamboo collections from Brazil, and the study of specimens from several Brazilian herbaria revealed that the species described as Eremocaulon setosum, subtribe Guaduineae, in fact fits within the Arthrostylidiinae genus Aulonemia, based on floral and anatomical characters. Several characters found in this species, such as paniculate determinate synflorescences, solitary spikelets, an abaxial marginal green stripe on the foliage leaf blades, absence of stomata on the entire adaxial side of the leaf blade, and intercostal fibers in the mesophyll are typical features of the subtribe Arthrostylidiinae. The new combination Aulonemia setosa is here proposed, an epitype is designated, and a broader distributional range of this species is documented. Recentes coletas de bambus no Brasil e o estudo de espcimes de diversos herbrios brasileiros revelaram que a espcie descrita como Eremocaulon setosum, subtribo Guaduineae, enquadra-se na circunscrio do gnero Aulonemia, da subtribo Arthrostylidiinae, com base nas caractersticas florais e anatmicas aqui apresentadas. Algumas caractersticas desta espcie, tais como sinflorescncias em panculas determinadas, espiguetas simples, uma faixa marginal verde escura na face abaxial das folhas de ramos, ausncia de estmatos em toda a superflcie adaxial da lmina e presena de fibras intercostais no mesofilo so caractersticas tpicas da subtribo Arthrostylidiinae. Com base nos dados apresentados, prope-se aqui a nova combinao Aulonemia setosa e um eptipo  designado. A ampliao da distribuio geogrfica desta espcie  tambm documentada.
30218793|Three new species from Brazil are described and illustrated. Passiflora cervii, P. jiboiaensis, and P. transversalis all belong to Passilora subg. Decaloba. /// Trs novas espcies de Passiflora subg. Decaloba no Brasil so descritas e ilustradas: P. cervii, P. jiboiaensis e P. transversalis.
2806491|In 1981 the Herbarium of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut (WECO) was donated to the New York Botanical Garden (NY). We present here an index to the collectors and a list of the verified types in the WECO Herbarium.
4099013|This paper examines the ecology, frond and spore morphology, gametophytes, and molecular biology of Thelypteris burksiorum to reveal its taxonomic affinities and phytogeographic origin. The species is endemic to Winston County in northern Alabama (U.S.A.) and only occurs in cave-like rockhouse habitats. A related species, T. pilosa, is widespread in central and southern Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras. Thelypteris pilosa is extremely variable and our data suggest that current recognition of the varieties major and pilosa is not warranted. Thelypteris pilosa is clearly closely related and likely sister to T. burksiorum. Thelypteris burksiorum exhibits the unusual production of gametophytic propagules. This, in combination with current levels of genetic diversity and reproductive biology, suggests that T. burksiorum is an ancient Tertiary relict and not an example of recent long distance dispersal. Selection in rockhouse habitats has driven species away from their normal life cycle to partial or complete reliance on the gametophyte generation. The combination of a reduced yet fertile sporophyte and a gametophyte that may rely on gametophytic proliferation places T. burksiorum in an intermediate evolutionary position relative to other rockhouse pteridophytes.
4098996| The morphology and anatomy of fruits of Coccocypselum condalia, C. geophiloides and Lipostoma capitatum are discussed and illustrated. Except for the presence of a thin layer of sclerenchymatic endocarp in Lipostoma, there are no significant differences in the anatomical structure of these fruits. Therefore, Lipostoma is placed under the synonymy of Coccocypselum and the new combination Coccocypselum capitatum is provided. The remaining species, Lipostoma sericeum, is of uncertain status. /// A morfologia e anatomia de frutos de Coccocypselum condalia, C. geophiloides e Lipostoma capitatum so analisadas e ilustradas. Exceto pela presena de uma fina camada de esclernquima no endocarpo de Lipostoma, no foram verificadas diferenas significativas na estrutura anat mica desses frutos. Portanto, Lipostoma  sinonimizado sob Coccocypselum e a nova combinao Coccocypselum capitatum  apresentada. A outra espcie de Lipostoma, L. sericeum, permanece um txon de identidade duvidosa. 
2807648|The Miconia subcompressa complex contains Miconia subcompressa, M. selleana, M. hypiodes, and two taxa described here: M. septentrionalis (collected mainly at Pico Diego de Ocampo, Cordillera Septentrional) and M. jimenezii (collected at high elevations in the Sierra de Neiba-Montagnes Noires). Members of the group are characterized by a shrubby or arborescent habit; leaves densely covered with ferrugineous, stellate hairs on the abaxial surface; large, actinomorphic flowers with white petals and stamens; and large, globose fruits turning from red to blue as they mature. The taxa comprising the group are compared and their phylogenetic relationships are analyzed. An identification key, along with species descriptions, specimen citations, and eco-geographical characterizations for each taxon, is presented.
4098997|Cryptantha gypsophila, a new species of sect. Oreocarya, is described from gypsum outcrops in widely scattered valleys of Mesa, Montrose, and San Miguel counties of western Colorado. It can be distinguished from the related and more widespread, C. paradoxa by having leaf blades with a glabrous upper surface and a lower surface with conspicuously pustulate-based bristles rather than uniformly sericeous-strigose to villous leaf-blade surfaces.
2806378|The distribution, affinities and delimiting characters and prospects for a new classification of Piptocarpha are discussed. Two new species and one subspecies from Brazil are described and figure: Piptocarpha densifolia, P. ramboi and P. rotundifolia (Less.) Baker subsp. hatschbachii.
2806343|Podandrogyne formosa, a new species from central Costa Rica and western Panama, is described and Illustrated, and its chromosome number (n=29) is reported.
30219386|Nardophyllum armatum, a species from the Puna region of Argentina, Bolivia, and Chile is here transferred to genus Ocyroe, which in turn is resurrected from the synonymy under Nardophyllum. Ocyroe is characterized by thorny branches, discoid capitula, naked receptacles, glandular corollas with a globose swelling at the base, and a profuse 3- to 5-seriate pappus. The new combination Ocyroe armata and a lectotype for Dolichogyne armata are here presented.
2807056|A new species, Habracanthus harleyi from Guerrero, is described, illustrated, and compared with its closest relative, Hansteinia monolopha.
2666610|Cuphea luteola is described from cerrado vegetation in Noel Kempff Mercado National Park, eastern Bolivia. It is assigned to section Euandra subsection Oidemation and is distinguished by yellow flowers, linear uninerved leaves, and the inner surface of the floral tube pilose and without vesicles. Several species of the subsection share one or more characters with C. luteola, but none are closely similar.
41406760|Two new species of Myrtaceae are described and illustrated. Campomanesia cucullata is a tree from Monte Alegre, Par, in the Brazilian Amazon. It is most similar to C. lineatifolia, from which it differs by being leafless when flowering, and by having densely congested and very small flowers. Myrcianthes monteucalyptoides is a tree from Tarma, Junin, in Central Peru. It is most similar to Myrcianthes myrsinoides, but the new species differs by a combination of medium-sized, some-what revolute, broadly-acuminate leaves, and by the solitary, pentamerous flowers with delicate pedicels.
3218417| Three new species of Melastomataceae (Blakeeae) are described: Blakea subpanduriformis, Topobea adscendens, and T. bullata. All are climbers endemic to the montane forests of the eastern slopes of the Andes in southern Ecuador. In this region, 35% of the Ecuadorian species and 41% of the endemic Ecuadorian species of Melastomataceae occur. The discovery of these three new endemic species underlines the diversity of Melastomataceae occurring on the slopes of the Andes in southeastern Ecuador. /// [Spanish]Se describen tres especies nuevas de Melastomataceae (Blakeeae): Blakea subpanduriformis, Topobea adscendens, y T. bullata. Todas son trepadoras endmicas de los bosques de montaa en las laderas orientales de los Andes en el sur de Ecuador. En esta regin crece el 35% de las especies ecuatorianas de Melastomataceae y el 41 % de las especies de esta familia que son endmicas de Ecuador. El descubrimiento de estas tres nuevas especies resalta la diversidad de Melastomataceae en las laderas sur-orientales de los Andes ecuatorianos. 
2806116|A description of Ceratozamia kuesteriana Regel is presented, which includes a description and illustration, for the first time, of the female strobilus. Chromosome count (2n = 16) and karyotype are also presented.
2807424|Myriophyllum quitense and M. ussuriense are added to the flora of British Columbia, Canada. Myriophyllum quitense has not been previously reported in Canada, and this is the first report of M. ussuriense for the North American continent. Problems with the identification of these species, and their distributions and habitats are discussed. The somatic chromosome numbers of 2 = 42 for M. quitense and 2n = 21 for M. ussuriense were found. A key for the identification of Myriophyllum taxa growing in British Columbia is given.
2806165|The first record of Anthodiscus from the rain forest of Pacific coastal Colombia is the new species A. chocoensis which is described here. The distribution of the genus is discussed in relation to its recent discovery in both the Choco and the coastal forests of eastern Brazil.
2666570|Stylotrichium glomeratum (Asteraceae, tribe Eupatorieae, subtribe Gyptidinae) is described from Chapada Diamantina (Bahia, Brazil), where the genus is endemic. A key to the five species of Stylotrichium is presented.
2807865|Fieldwork in connection with the project to document the flora of the Mixteca Alta region, northwestern Oaxaca, Mexico, has resulted in the discovery of a new species, Ageratina pendula.
2806741|Three species of caespitose, alpine to subalpine lupines of north western Argentina, adjacent Bolivia, and northern Chile, that have been misinterpreted and clerically mixed, are described, keyed and illustrated.
3218483| Aristolochia gorgona is described from the Atlantic watershed of Costa Rica and central and eastern Panama. It is similar to A. grandiflora Sw., with which it has been confused in the past. The extensive reported synonymy of A. grandiflora is reviewed and compared with the new entity. Some new terms are proposed for better describing floral structure in this species complex, and suggestions are made for its collection and study. Aristolochia gorgona is one of the largest-flowered plant species (in terms of perianth area) in the Neotropics. /// [French]Aristolochia gorgona se describe de la vertiente Atlntica de Costa Rica y del centro y este de Panam. Es similar a A. grandiflora Sw., con la cual se ha confundido en el pasado. La extensa sinonimia reportada para A. grandiflora es revisada, y comparada con la nueva entidad. Se proponen algunos trminos nuevos para describir mejor la estructura floral en ste complejo de especies, y se ofrecen sugerencias para su recoleccin y estudio. Aristolochia gorgona es una de las especies vegetales con flores ms grandes (en cuanto al rea del perianto) en el Neotrpico. 
2806642|A natural alliance of four species of Chusquea is characterized by having verticillate branches and a spikelet in which the transitional glumes one and two are very small or scalelike, and transitional glumel three and four are about equal to each other and about one-half or three-quarters as long as the lemma. Two of the four species, C. circinata and C. coronalis, are described as new and are provided with illustrations. The other two species, C. liebmannii Fourn. and C. pittieri Hack., are included in a key. The types and other collections are cited for the four species and their relationships are discussed.
2807402|Mesosetum alatum and M. longiaristatum, both from Central Brazil, are described and illustrated.
2805773|The genera Amblostoma, Lanium, and Stenoglossum are discussed, and it is concluded that all three should be included in Epidendrum. Lanium is treated as a section, and new names are proposed for two species whose epithets are preoccupied in Epidendrum: E. macrum (for Amblostoma gracile) and E. stiliferum (for Lanium subulatum).
2805898|In a study of ten taxa of Chanopodium occurring primarily in the western United States and designated as the narrow-leaved complex, data from morphology, flavonoid chemistry, and somatic chromosome karyotypes were correlated. All taxa produce 3-O-glycosides of quercetin and/or isorhammetin. The six taxa examined for chromosome number were found to be diploid (2n=18). Chenopodium atrovirens, C. desiccatum var. leptophylloides, and C. leptophyllum, producing the same array of flavonoids and with similar yet distinctive somatic chromosomes, are closely related, and C. desiccatum var. leptophylloides is considered to be a distinct species, C. pratericola. Chenopodium desiccatum var. desiccatum and C. hians show reduced flavonoid complements and have similar karyotypes. Chromosomal and chemical evidence suggests that plants heretofore included in C. incognitum represent two biological entities, one similar to C. atrovirens and another identical to C. hians. Morphological and chemical data indicate that C. subglabrum C. cycloides, and C. pallescens are closely related. The flavonoid chemistry and morphology of C. albescens suggest a close relationship to C. atrovirens and C. pratericola.
2806789|Two private herbaria have been donated to the Garden. The Trow herbarium consists of 87 mounted plants collected in Massachusetts between 1895 and 1900. The Beals herbarium contains 325 mounted plants from New Jersey and Pennsylvania, collected between 1898 and 1901.
2805579|The previously monotypic genus Decachaeta DC. has been enlarged to include five additional species that have been placed in either Eupatorium or Ophryosporus. A new subgenus, Polydenia, has been established for these, with four new combinations, Decachaeta incompta, D. ovatifolia, D. scabrella, and D. thieleada, and one new variety, D. scabrella var. macvaughii. A key and descriptions are included.
2805876|Chromosome numbers are reported for 48 collections representing 15 species and three varieties of Nama. Counts for 10 taxa are initial reports, all being diploid with n = 7. Diploid counts for N. jamaicense (n = 7), previously known only as tetraploid, are also reported. Comments on the taxonomic relationships of selected taxa are included.
2666572|Two new species of ferns and a hybrid horsetail are described from Mexico: Diplazium wendtii, Polypodium microgrammoides, and Equisetum x haukeanum.
3218495| The Compsoneura atopa complex (Myristicaceae) is a group of four narrowly distributed species known only from southern Panama and adjacent northwestern Colombia. As a group, these species are unmistakable in their combination of strongly brochidodromous secondary venation; ridged, rostrate, and ligneous fruit pericarp; and ferrugineous tomentum of sparsely to densely distributed, irregularly stellate trichomes on leaf lamina, petioles, young stems, inflorescences, external perianth surfaces, and external fruit pericarp. Compsoneura anoriensis and Compsoneura claroensis are described from the Ro Anor and Ro Magdalena valleys of Colombia, respectively. Descriptions and diagnostic keys are presented for all species in this group. 
2666509|A phenetic study of Quercus acutifolia and Q. conspersa (Fagaceae) is carried out. The study was based on morphological characters, and included cluster analysis and principal component analysis. The results revealed that the characters employed so far to separate Quercus acutifolia and Q. conspersa seem to be quite unreliable. Nevertheless, both species can still be recognized as taxonomically different entities, although mostly based on characters of leaf margins. We propose that the individuals that have leaves with dentate-aristate margins correspond to Q. acutifolia, whereas those that have leaves with entire and not dentate-aristate margins belong to Q. conspersa.
2806418|This paper is presented in tribute to Rupert C. Barneby on the occasion of his seventieth year. Described as new are Artemisia norbegica var. picetorum Welsh & Goodrich, Astragalus lentiginosus var. higginsii Welsh & Thorne, Cirsium barnebyi Welsh & Neese, Cymopterus beckii Welsh & Goodrich, Machaeranthera kingii var. barnebyana Welsh & Goodrich, Thelypodiopsis barnebyi Welsh & Atwood, Xanthocephalum petradoria Welsh & Goodrich, Xylorhiza cronquistii Welsh & Atwood.
40792900|A new species, Thelypteris beckeriana (Thelypteridaceae), is here described. It belongs to subgenus Goniopteris because of the presence of forked and stellate hairs on some parts of its blades. It is a narrow endemic to the Atlantic Rain Forest of southern Bahia, Brazil. A complete description, illustrations, and comparisons with the most similar species are provided.
2807679|Materials are presented to the effect that Phoradendron californicum Nutt., the nomenclatural type of the genus Phoradendron (Viscaceae), is related to southern, cataphyllous species, not to northern, acataphyllous ones. The evidence consists of the frequent occurrence of basal cataphylls in the species, variation in basal phyllotaxy, and a basically biseriate arrangement of flowers on fertile internodes. The suggestion of this southern, cataphyllous affinity is supported by the recent discovery of a strictly cataphyllous Mexican species, P. olae Kuijt, which shows median basal phyllotaxy and is in many features extremely similar to P. californicum. The nomenclatural consequences of this discovery would lead to subgen. Boreales (Trel.) Engler (and probably subgen. Aequatoriales (Trel.) Engler) being synonymized under subgen. Phoradendron, characterized by basal cataphylls (though not in all species). However, no generic subdivision of any sort is supported at this time.
2807086|the nomenclature and typification of all known species of Polygonum section Echinocaulon are clarified, and the correct names and synonyms are presented. Lectotypes are selected.
2806291|Comparison of several critical morphological characters in Acer japonicum microphyllum Siesmayer and A. shirasawanum Koidzumi, show that the two taxa are identical; the former is synonymous with A. shirasawanum. Similary, morphological data, supported by the chemical dichotomy of flavonols vs. glycoflavones within Acer section Palmata, indicate that A. japonicum aureum Siesmayer is in fact a form of A. shirasawanum. The combination Acer shirasawanum forma aureum (Siesmayer) Delendrick is proposed for the golden fullmoon maple.
2805897|Morphological, karyological, and ecological data indicate that Lesqueralla engelmannii (Gray) Wats. should be considered with L. ovalifolia Rydb. as comprising a single polymorphic species having diploid, tetraploid, hexaploid, and octaploid populations and exhibitin broad variation, with geographic trends, in vegetative morphology. Three subspecies are distinguished.
23254277|A new species is described, Lundia laevis (Bignoniaceae). This species is distributed in the Brazilian Amazon and is characterized by its glabrescent stem, leaflets, and calyx, and the narrow infundibuliform corolla. A complete description, illustration, and comparisons with similar species are provided. Uma nova espcie  descrita, Lundia laevis (Bignoniaceae). Esta espcie se distribui na regio Amaznica brasileira e  caracterizada pelo caule, fololos e clice glabrescentes e a corola estreito infundibuliforme. Aqui so apresentadas descrio, ilustrao e comparaes com as espcies mais prximas.
41406786|Alansmia, a new genus of grammitid ferns is described and combinations are made for the 26 species known to belong to it. Alansmia is supported by five morphological synapomorphies: setae present on the rhizomes, cells of the rhizome scales turgid, both surfaces of the rhizome scales ciliate, laminae membranaceous, and sporangial capsules setose. Other diagnostic characters include pendent fronds with indeterminate growth, concolorous, orange to castaneous rhizome scales with ciliate or sometimes glandular margins, hydathodes often cretaceous, and setae simple, paired or stellate. The group also exhibits the uncommon characteristic of producing both trilete and apparently monolete spores, sometimes on the same plant. New combinations are made for Alansmia alfaroi, A. bradeana, A. canescens, A. concinna, A. contacta, A. cultrata, A. dependens, A. diaphana, A. elastica, A. glandulifera, A. heteromorpha, A. immixta, A. kirkii, A. lanigera, A. laxa, A. longa, A. monosora, A. reclinata, A. semilunaris, A. senilis, A, smithii, A. spathulata, A. Stella van Stella, A. Stella var. flava, A. turrialbae, A. variabilis, A. xanthotrichia. Lectotypifications are made for Alansmia concina, A. variabilis, Polypodium ciliare, P. flexile, and P. ovalescens. The genus is named in honor of pteridologist Alan R. Smith.
2805558|Formal descriptions are given for thirteen new taxa in the genus Cavendishia.
4497351|Croton churutensis is described as a new species of Croton section Cyclostigma endemic to lowland deciduous forests in coastal Ecuador. Its red latex is used locally in Guayas Province to treat wounds, stomach ulcers, and some skin conditions caused by fungal infections. The new species differs from its closest apparent relative, Croton hibiscifolius, in its arching-pendent inflorescences, short-pedicellate female flowers with quadrifid stigmas, more numerous stamens, laciniate stipules, and lower elevation habitat.
2806082|Gleasonia prancei, a new species form Serra Araca, Amazonas, Brazil, is described and illustrated.
2807336|Erythroxylum simonis, E. pauferrense, E. bezerrae, and E. tianguanum from northeastern Brazil are described and illustrated, and their taxonomic and phytogeographic relationships are discussed.
30218774|Croton balsensis (Euphorbiaceae), a new species endemic to the Balsas Depression of southern Mexico, is described and illustrated. It occurs in the states of Guerrero, Morelos, and Puebla, growing in tropical deciduous forest at elevations from 450 to 1850 m. It is best accommodated in Croton sect. Cascarilla. The Mexican species of this section are often quite similar, but C. balsensis is readily separated from related species by the possession of echinate ovaries and fruits. /// Se describe e ilustra Croton balsensis. Es endmica de la cuenca del ro Balsas en el sur de Mxico. Crece en los estados de Guerrero, Morelos y Puebla a altitudes de 450 a 1850 m en bosque tropical caducifolio. Pertenece a Croton sect. Cascarilla. Las especies mexicanas de esta seccin por lo general son parecidas y C. balsensis se distingue por tener ovarios y frutos equinados.
2806510|Four nightblooming water-lilies of Nymphaea subgenus Hydrocallis, N. conardii, N. lingulata, N. novo-granatensis, and N. prolifera, are described from the American tropics.
41406766|Asplenium cornutissimum, a new species from Guangxi, southern China, is described, illustrated, and compared to three similar species: A. pulcherrimum, A. coenobiale, and A. tenuifolium. So far, the new species is known only from the limestone region in southern Guangxi, from 750-825 m. It grows exclusively in karst caves.
2806231|The provenance of the genus Diandrolyra, described in 1906 from cultivation, was not known until the discovery of several new species in the eastern coastal forests of Brazil. A description and illustration is given of one of these, Diandrolyra tatianae, thus far collected in the states of So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
2807423|Arthropogon bolivianus is described as a new species. A revised key for the seven species of the genus is provided.
2806000|Tillandsia tomasellii from Ro Hondo, Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and compared to related species T. xerographica and T. fasciculata.
2806202|Gaillardia pulchella Foug. is subdivided into partially interfertile cytotypes which are in some cases morphologically recognizable. The greatest morphological and cytological variation occurs in the southern and eastern portions of the species range. The evolutionary history of the species cannot be determined from the cytological information presented here although paleoclimatic information suggests the species or its ancestral form would have occupied areas to the south or west of the present distribution during the late Pleistocene-Recent climatic shifts.
30219393|Two new species of Calycolpus from Brazil are described and illustrated, C. andersonii from Par and C. sessiliflorus from Bahia.
2807247|The history of the collections in the Library of The New York Botanical Garden includes the acquisition of previously accumulated collections as well as individual items acquired in the normal course of collection development. Particularly during the first 50 years of the institution, collections of library materials were acquired along with herbaria specimens, and, occasionally, collections of living plants, assembled by an individual as part of his or her personal research interests. While curatorial practice dictates that such an assemblage of research materials be separated when shifted from individual to institutional curatorship, the knowledge of the whole of the collections as received may fill in the background pattern of institutional collection development. A chronological table of these collections is appended, including reference to any extended discussion or listing.
2807257|Hibiscus uncinellus and H. bifurcatus have been confused in the literature and in the herbarium. The morphological, ecological, and geographic differences between them are presented, and a lectotype is chosen for the former species. Hibiscus uncinellus is virtually confined to Mexico (plus one Guatemalan station), and H. bifurcatus occurs in the West Indies, South America, and Central America, as far north as Honduras.
2805585|Generic delimitations in the Bignoniaceae are discussed, a number of Central American genera are reduced to synonymy, and a new genus Pseudocatalpa is proposed. Generic mergers include Leyva with Cydista, Saldanhaea with Cuspidaria, Doxantha with Macfadyena, Pseudocalymma with Pachyptera, and Phaedranthus with Distictis. New combinations necessitated by these mergers include the following: Arrabidaea costaricensis (Kranzl.) Gentry, A. pubescens (L.) Gentry, Cuspidaria floribunda (DC.) Gentry, C. weberbaueri (Spr.) Gentry, Cydista aequinoctialis var. hirtella (Benth.) Gentry, Distictis buccinatoria (DC.) Gentry, Macfadyena unguis-cati (L.) Gent, Melloa quadrivalvis (Jacq.) Gentry, Pachyptera alliacea (Lam.) Gentry, P. hymenaea (DC.) Gentry, P. kerere var. incarnata (Aubl.) Gentry, P. standleyi (Steyerm.) Gentry, and Pseudocatalpa caudiculata (Standl.) Gentry. In addition, the fruits of several species are described for the first time, and their taxonomic significance is discussed.
2807069|Asterogyne yaracuyense and Prestoea humilis are described and illustrated, and their relationships discussed.
2806016|Seventeen species of Hibiscus section Furcaria are native to the New World, of which 12 (one diploid, nine tetraploids, one octoploid and one decaploid) have been studied cytotaxonomically. New chromosome counts (2n = 4x = 72) are reported for H. cucurbitaceus, H. flagelliformis, H. kitaibelifolius and H. laxiflorus. Seventeen types of tetraploid interspecific hybrids (seven new to this study) all showed complete meiotic chromosome homology (genome formula GGPP) and normal floral development. That all hybrids nevertheless almost completely sterile suggests a cytoplasmic component to the genetic differentiation of the species. The diversification of the tetraploid species in habits, habitats and geographical ranges is considerable, despite their similar genome constitutions. A key to 17 native and four introduced African species is presented. Hibiscus ceradoensis sp. nov. is described.
2805588|Foliage and bark samples were collected from the tree that provided the type specimen for Juniperus deppeana var. sperryi Correll, as well as from trees from populations of J. pinchotii Sudw., J. flaccida Schl., and J. deppeana Steud. var. deppeana. These four taxa were compared using terpenoid and morphological characters. The terpenoid data suggest that J. deppeana var sperryi is most closely related to J. deppeana var. deppeana; no evidence of relict or present hybridization with J. flaccida was detected. The morphological data showed J. deppeana var. sperryi to be intermediate in several characters between J. deppeana var. deppeana and J. flaccida. The probability of a hybrid origin for this taxon is discussed. Due to the scattered occurrence of trees referable to J. deppeana var. sperryi, it is proposed that this taxon be reduced in rank to J. deppeana forma sperryi.
23254246|Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva de la cuenca del ro Balsas, en el estado de Guerrero, Mxico: Lepidagathis danielii (Acanthaceae). sta se distingue de las especies conocidas del gnero por presentar hojas y brcteas con espina apical, inflorescencias con flores decusadas, cliz con lbulos connados a la misma altura, la corola roja de 3 cm de largo, conspicuamente bilabiada y con una constriccin cerca de la base donde se insertan los estambres. Adicionalmente, el estilo est cubierto de pelos esparcidos y el polen es tricolporado sin pseudocolpos. A new species from the Balsas river basin in Guerrero state, Mexico, is described and illustrated: Lepidagathis danielii (Acanthaceae). This new species is distinguished from all the known species of the genus because it has leaves and bracts with an apical spine, inflorescences with decussate flowers, a calyx with connate lobes of equal length, a red corolla that is 3 cm long and conspicuously bilabiate with a constriction near the base where the stamens are also inserted. In addition, the style is covered with scattered trichomes and the pollen is tricolporate without pseudocolpi.
2805440|Chromosome numbers are reported for 19 species of North American Salix, one natural hybrid, and one introduced species. The following 17 species are here examined cytologically for the first time: Salix amygdaloides Anderss., S. arbusculoides Anderss., S. brachycarpa Nutt., S. candida Willd., S. discolor Muhl., S. exigua Nutt., S. humilis Marsh., S. interior Rowlee, S. lutea Nutt., S. maccalliana Rowlee, S. monticola Rydb., S. myrtillifolia Anderss., S. pellita Anderss., S petiolaris J. E. Sm., S. scouleriana Barr., S. silicicola Raup, and S. subcoerulea Piper. Of the 19 native North American species 11 are diploid, four are tetraploid, one is triploid, one hexaploid, one dodecaploid, and one exhibits more than one ploidal level.
2807256|A new species, Cryptantha schoolcraftii, is described and illustrated. It is related to the C. nubigena-sobolifera alliance but differs in short duration and lowland habitat. It further differs from C. sobolifera in having smaller corollas, shorter nutlets, and a shorter style.
4099023|New geographic records of Eleocharis obtusetrigona from the Galapagos Islands, Guatemala, and El Salvador are reported. A description and illustration of E. obtusetrigona are provided, along with a key to separate it from other Central and South American species of Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa with which it has been frequently confused.
2806680|Fifteen new combinations and one new binomial in Penstemon, to be used in a floristic treatment of the genus in the Intermountain Flora, are published herewith.
2805449|Investigantions of natural populations, cytological studies, and comparisons of herbarium specimens have been used to clarify the taxonomy of the Florida species of Flaveria. These studies indicate that F. latifolia is a hybrid between F. linearis and F. floridana. Apparently the "latifolia" plants represent stabilized populations that have become adapted to the fill material dredged from the ocean and used in road building and land development is southern Florida. The wide variation noted in populations of F. linearis and F. floridana is attributed to introgression. The paper includes a taxonomic treatment of the six species wich occur in Florida. All taxa are diploid with 2n = 36.
2806161|Blakea penduliflora, a highland epiphyte from Costa Rica, is described, illustrated and compared with the three known Mesoamerican congeners characterized by pendent green flowers and copious nectar.
2807812|Siapaea liesneri is a new genus and species of Compositae tribe Eupatorieae. Features most important for recognition as a new genus are the glabrous, convex to conical receptacle; the appressed-pubescent, weakly expanded style base; and the pappus reduced to an annular callus or, less commonly, with one bristle. The genus is provisionally placed in Ayapaninae.
30219380|Analysis of the pericarp structure in the four genera of the palm subtribe Dypsidinae reveals tissues similar to those in other taxa within the pseudomonomerous Indo-Pacific arecoid palms, but generally in unspecialized configurations consistent with their presumed basal position within this group. Unique tissues within some members of genus Dypsis include thin-walled, tannin-filled fibers around the vascular bundles. Large-fruited members of the presumably related genera Lemurophoenix, Masoala, and Marojejya show more distinctive arrangements of protective tissues and are quite different from one another. Only Marojejya appears to be closely related to Dypsis. Lemurophoenix and Masoala, by possession of both unsheathed vascular bundles and bundles with heavy fibrous sheaths, show possible affinities with genera well-removed from Dypsis.
2806347|A new species of Erigeron, E. hessii from the Mogollon Mountains in southwestern New Mexico, is described and and illustrated. The low, caespitose habit is particularly characteristic of these plants. They have a highly branched caudex system with fibrous roots and no strong central root or rhizomatous axis, monocephalous and unbranched stems, subclasping lower cauline leaves and small, sessile upper ones, purplish, punctateglandular and sparsely hirsute phyllaries, 44-75 white rays, and an essentially simple pappus. The closest relative of E. hessii is probably E. kuschei Eastwood, a narrow endemic from the Chiricahua Mountains in southeastern Arizona. An illustration and detailed descriptions of E. kuschei are also provided.
2806346|Thibaudia dudleyi var. dudleyi and var pseudostellata, Demonsthenesia cordifolia, D. oppositifolia, and D. vilcabambensis from the Cordillera Vilcabamba, and Cavendishia sirensis from the Cerros del Sira in eastern Peru are described and illustrated. The Cordillera Vilcabamba seems to be the center of distribution for the genus Demosthenesia.
40980940|Six new species of Lepraria are described from North America: L. barbatica, L. cryophila, L. disjuncta, L. moroziana, L. terrcola, and L. xanthonica.Lepraria torii is discussed and its range extended to include boreal eastern North America. Lepraria aurescens is reported as new to North America from Florida.Preliminary keys to the genus in North America are presented.
4099041|In 1902 Alice Northrop published an annotated checklist of the plants that she and her husband John had collected in the Bahamas, in 1890. She included 22 new species descriptions and 7 new species published elsewhere. She stated, "the type specimens are in the herbarium of Columbia University [now at NY]," with duplicate sets at other herbaria. William T. Gillis (1933-1979) found a set of the Northrops' specimens, labeled as Types, at the herbarium of the Field Museum (F) in Chicago. When Gillis compared the F specimens with illustrations in Northrop's publications, he concluded that most of the descriptions and illustrations had been made from these specimens, many of which he annotated as holotypes. Recently, I examined and compared both sets of specimens with Northrop's publications. While many of the F specimens are indeed the ones that were used for the descriptions and illustrations of the new species, the current International Code of Botanical Nomenclature (ICBN) does not permit the reassigning of type specimen designations. I conclude that Northrop's type specimens currently at NY are the holotypes, isotypes, syntypes, or lectotypes, and that the specimens she distributed are syntypes, isotypes, or isolectotypes.
2807849|Scelochilus crucicornibus, which had been mentioned in the literature as a nomen nudum, is described and illustrated.
2805895|The trichomes of two problematic complexes in the genus Cheilanthes were studied. In one group, the trichomes of C. tomentosa are long, multicellular, uniseriate, and flat whereas those of C. chipinquensis are similar but somewhat cylindrical. In the other group, C. microphylla and C. alabamensis cannot be separated on the basis of their trichomes alone whereas the trichomes of C. aemula differ from those of the other two by being more acicular and in lacking a bulbous tip.
2807530|Examination of pollen from the paratype of Obolinga zanonii Barneby supports the proposed affinity of the genus to Cojoba Britton & Rose (Mimosaceae tribe Ingeae).
3218533| Tigridia amatlanensis is described and illustrated as a new species from Mexico. It is recognized by its nodding flowers and its inner and outer tepals cirrhous and markedly dimorphic in length. It is most closely related to T. hallbergii subsp. hallbergii and T. meleagris. Other morphologically similar species are T. catarinensis and T. molseediana. ///[Spanish]Se describe e ilustra a Tigridia amatlanensis como especie nueva que crece en Mxico. Se reconoce por sus flores pndulas y sus tpalos cirrosos, los interiores mucho ms pequeos que los exteriores. El taxn propuesto est relacionado con T. hallbergii subsp. hallbergii, T. meleagris. Morfolgicamente. tambin es similar a T. cutarinensis y T. molseediana. 
2805574|De Candolle published the first binomial applied to a common Hawaiian shrub or small tree. Consequently that binomial should be taken up as the basionym since there is no obstacle preventing its use in the genus Gouldia. Previous disclaimers as to the validity of the basionym are shown to be without basis.
3218468| Dalea rupertii is proposed as new. It differs from previously known species in having calyx teeth with both spurred (1-2) and blister glands (4-6), and leaves 7-17 mm long, bearing 4-5 pairs of leaflets. It is known only from the southern portion of the state of Durango, Mexico. A description, a comparative table, and an illustration are provided. /// [Spanish]Dalea rupertii es propuesta como nueva especie. Difiere de las especies previamente conocidas por la presencia de glndulas tanto espueliformes (1-2), como ampulosas (4-6) en los dientes del cliz, hojas cortas de 7-17 mm largo y 4-5 pares de fololos. Slo se conoce de la regin sur del estado mexicano de Durango. Se presentan una descripcin, tabla comparativa e ilustracin. 
2807547|The relationship between the Asian genera Disepalum Hook. f. and Ernicosanthellum Ban (Annonaceae) is examined in a revisionary study. Despite the disparate perianth morphologies of the two genera, other characters support inclusion of all species in a single genus with nine species. The monocarp stalks in all species are found to be derived from the receptacle rather than the ovary, and are thus not homologous with those found in most other Annonaceae genera. Cladistic analysis indicates that the species on the mainland of Asia and of montane habitats are more primitive than the species of the lowlands and of Sumatra and Borneo. Two new combinations, Disepalum petelotii and D. plagioneurum, are necessary as a result of merging the two genera, and one species, D. aciculare, is described as new.
2807516| Pagamea aracansis Boom, endemic to Serra Arac, Brazil, is described and illustrated, and its relationship to P. anisophylla Standley & Steyerm. is discussed. 
2807300|Ipomoea sawyeri shows no obvious relationship with any other species in Peru. It shares the persistent, foliose bract condition with the Ecuadorian species I. harlingii, and the Brazilian I. echinocalyx, and is probably allied with them.
2807218|The first reported field data on the morphology and ecology and confirmatory cytological data are presented for Hymenocallis henryae. Its taxonomic status and possible relationship to H. palmeri are discussed.
2805778|Recently Calyptocarpus has been considered monotypic, but C. vialis of eastern Mexico proves to be distinct from C. wendlandii of Central America. A key to these and to the often-misidentified Synedrella nodiflora is provided, and all three species are illustrated.
2806983|Comparative organography (excepting carpels studied previously) and anatomy of the flower are reported for some American members of the genera of Lycieae: Lycium, Grabowskia, and Phrodus. Data obtained are mostly new since no comprehensiva floral anatomical work has been carried out in the tribe. These results include the first report of extrafloral nectaries on the inner epidermis of the calyx in Phrodus and Grabowskia. Results are discussed and compared with previous reports for the family, and putative phylogenetic lines are drawn. The cosmopolitan genus Lycium is older than the exclusively American Phrodus and Grabowskia. Lycium shows great morphological diversity while the other two genera are less variable but have more specialized features. A key, based on floral characters, to the genera of Lycieae and sections of Lycium is provided.
41406787|Miconia manauara has been collected several times in two municipalities in the state of Amazonas, Brazil, and once in nearby Para. It can be recognized among species in Miconia sect. Miconia by the leaves with obtuse to rounded bases, entire margins, cuspidate apices and five basal to shortly suprabasal nerves. The leaves also have glabrous mature adaxial leaf surfaces and the abaxial surface with two indument layers, the first consisting of moderate to dense, ferruginous, sessile stellate trichomes, 0.10.2 mm diam., and the second consisting of a dense, granulose-furfuraceous layer. The inflorescences are glomerulate, the 5-merous flowers have a caducous calyx, minutely papillose petals, ten stamens that are ventrally bilobed and with a small dorsal, obtuse tooth, and the ovaries are furfuraceous and usually covered by unbranched trichomes on their apices. Miconia manauara tern sido coletada vrias vezes em dois municipios no estado do Amazonas e urna vez no Par. Esta espcie pode ser reconhecida entre as espcies de Miconia sect. Miconia pelas folhas com base obtuse a arredondada, margem inteira, pice cuspidado e cinco nervuras basais a curtamente suprabasais, e tambm com a face adaxial glabra e abaxial coberta por duas carnadas de indumento, a primeira com tricomas estrelados 0.10.2 mm diam., ssseis, fenugneos, moderados a densos, e a segunda densamente granuloso-furfurcea. As inflorescncias so glomeruladas, enquanto que as flores pentmeras apresentam o clice caduco, ptalas minutamente papilosas, dez estames ventralmente bilobados e com um pequeno dente dorsal obtuso, e ovrio com pice furfurceo e geralmente coberto por tricomas simples.
3218487| Two populations of Adiantum variopinnatum were found at the La Selva Biological Field Station in Costa Rica. The plants were morphologically intermediate between their parents, showed additive isozyme banding patterns, and had aborted spores. Herbarium searches for the hybrid turned up specimens from Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Venezuela, and Colombia. These are the first reports of the hybrid outside of Trinidad. 
23254252|Aulonemia cochabambensis (Poaceae: Bambusoideae: Bambuseae: Arthrostylidiinae), a new species from the Department of Cochabamba, Bolivia, is described and illustrated. It has foliage leaves with delicate fimbriae, no sheath auricles, narrow blades, an abaxial dark marginal stripe, and intercostal sclerenchyma; few-flowered paniculate synflorescences; and robust, awned spikelets. The new species is compared with its putative relatives Aulonemia laxa and Arthrostylidium schomburgkii. A key to the species of Aulonemia in Bolivia is also included. Se describe e ilustra Aulonemia cochabambensis (Poaceae: Bambusoideae: Bambuseae: Arthrostylidiinae), una especie nueva del Departamento de Cochabamba, Bolivia. Se distingue la especie nueva por las hojas de follaje sin aurculas y con fimbrias delicadas y lminas angostas con una raya oscura marginal por el envs; sinflorescencias paniculadas de pocas espiguillas; y espiguillas robustas y aristadas. La especie nueva es comparado con Aulonemia laxa y Arthrostylidium schomburgkii, las especies morfologicamente ms relacionadas con A. cochabambensis. Se presenta tambin una clave a las especies de Aulonemia en Bolivia.
2806482|Nine species of Lecythidaceae subfamily Lecythidoideae in four genera whose chromosome numbers were previously unknown, have 17 as their basic chromosome number: Eschweilera pittieri, three other unidentified species of Eschweilera, Grias cauliflora, Gustavia dubia, G. seperba, Lecythis minor, and L. tuyrana. All are diploid except Gustavia superba, which is tetraploid. Couroupita guianensis, which was previously-and probably incorrectly-reported to have a gametic chromosome number of 18, also has n = 17. The known chromosome numbers supporr recognizing at least three of Niedenzu's subfamilies: Planchonioideae with x = 13, Napoleonaeoideae with x = 16, and Lecythidoideae with x = 17. His fourth subfamily, Foetidioideae, with one genus of five species, has not been counted. Cytological data have been and probably will be useful in indicating to what subfamily problematic genera belong and in showing interesting phytogeographic patterns within the family. On the other hand, cytological data provide no recognizable clues relating the Lecythidaceae to other families.
2806965|Foliar anatomy and micromorphology of perigynia and achenes were investigated for three taxa of the Carex acuta complex of sect. Phacocystis Dumort. in Middle and South America. Anatomical characters appear to be conservative, and show little variation among C. cuchumatanensis Standl. & Steyerm., C. decidua F. Boott, and C. hermannii Cochrane. Leaves of all species are amphistomatous, with stomates and papillae on both epidermal surfaces, and have a single layer of bulliform cells but differ in the number of vascular bundles. Perigynia have epidermal cells with thin, convex, outer walls that are collapsed in dried specimens, and epidermal cells of achenes each have a single, rounded, nodulose silica-body with a basal platform. Anatomical data are useful in resolving the affinities among these species, and show that they are anatomically indistinguishable from C. lenticularis Michx. These four New World endemics differ substantially from C. nigra (L.) Reichard.
2806252|Verbesina hintoniorum, an endemic gypsophile belonging to the sect. Saubinetia, is described from south-central Nuevo Len. Only two collection sites are known, both from gypsum outcrops about Cerro Potos.
3218355|A taxonomic study is presented for the South American orchid genus Bifrenaria Lindl., which is characterized, within the subtribe Maxillariinae, by four-angled, unifoliate pseudobulbs, plicate leaves, and by flowers bearing a conspicuous spur and a pollinarium usually with a forked stipe. We consider Bifrenaria a monophyletic group including Adipe (=Stenocoryne), Cydoniorchis, and Bifrenaria sensu stricto. The main goals of this study are to present a taxonomic synopsis of genus Bifrenaria, determining which taxa should be recognized, their distributions, and which characters traditionally used to discriminate species are taxonomically informative. Identification keys, descriptions, distribution maps, and line drawings are also provided.
2807179|A list of 226 vascular plant type specimens, representing 220 basionyms, found during the incorporation of the DePauw University Herbarium (DPU) into the New York Botanical Garden Herbarium (NY), is presented. Included are the types from Truman G. Yuncker's numerous expeditions to Honduras and the South Pacific. Lists of the types found in the Piperaceae, Cuscutaceae, and cryptogamic collections are being published elsewhere or have already appeared.
2807376|Henry A. Gleason, one of America's first ecologists, writes about the beginnings of the science in the United States and how his concepts developed in the setting of Clements' and Cowles' ideas of vegetation and succession and how he came up with his individualistic concept of the plant association.
2807417|Selaginella parviarticulata is described and illustrated from south-central Paraguay. It is a very small member of section Articulatae as evidenced by the slightly swollen nodes, dorsal insertion of rhizophores, and single, basal megasporangium. An argument is made for the use of microcharacters in plants of small stature.
2807059|The taxonomic history of the poorly known Haitian endemic palm Attalea crassispatha is given. Morphology and pollen morphology are described and illustrated. A discussion is given concerning its position within the Attaleinae. In particular, staminate flower morphology of the subtribe is discussed.
2805474|In accord with its cytological and morphological distinctiveness and its geographical disjuction, the Sierran element of C. pauciflora A. Gray is described as a new species, C. hooveri. Its chromosome number of n=7 is documented for the first time. Evidence from cytogenetic analysis of synthetic hybrids is presented to support the conclusion that C. hooveri is more closely related to C. villosa DC. than to C. pauciflora. Characteristics of ligule morphology and the distribution of the peculiar saucer-shaped glands on the peduncular and receptacular bracts of these species also support the new interpretation.
2806002|A conspectus of the subgenera and sections of Magnistipula is provided. Of the two subgenera occurring on the African mainland, subgenus Magnistipula is divided into the sections Magnistipula, Animalculum and Peregrinator, whereas subgen. Pellegriniella is monotypic. A Malagasy subgenus, Tolmiella, is new; its two species, M. cerebriformis and M. tamenaka, are transferred from Hirtella.
2806427|Recent fieldwork in Colombia and the routine examination of loaned material revealed seven new species of Andean Ericaceae. Descriptions are provided for Cavendishia barnebyi, C. colombiana, C. mariae, C. pilobracteata, C. pseudopedunculata, Psammisia oppositiflora, and Sphyrospermum sessiliflorum. Line drawings are provided for some new taxa.
2806778|The neotropical genus Ochthocosmus is centered in the Guayan Highland of southern Venezuela. The taxonomic history, morphology, ecology, and geographical distribution are discussed in relation to the taxonomy of the genus. A key to the six species and four varieties, distribution maps, description, and specimen citation are given. Two new species and two new varieties are described, O. longipedicellatus Steyermark & Luteyn, O. attenuatus Steyermark & Luteyn, O. multiflorus var. angustifolius Steyermark & Luteyn, O. multiflorus var. canaripoensis Steyermark & Luteyn; and two new combinations, O. roraimae var. parvifolius (Hallier f.) Steyermark & Luteyn, O. roraimae var. grandifolius (Steyermark) Steyermark & Luteyn, are made.
2805577|During field studies on the pteridophytes of Costa Rica, a peculiarly dimorphic polypodioid fern was found in the rain-forests of te Atlantic lowlands near Puerto Viejo. The variation in the fertile frond, ranging from simple and short petiolate to pinnatisect and long petiolate, coupled with peculiarly elongate and irregular sori, prompted further investigations. Additional herbarium specimens from localities in Mexico, British Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica showed intermixed variations between plants with all leaves simple (typified by Polypodium bradeorum Rosenstock) to plants with all leaves lobed or pinnatisect (typified by P. colysoides Maxon & Copeland). Other characters were judged sufficiently homogeneous to consider these individuals as conspecific under P. bradeorum. Morphological studies indicate parallel evolution of several characters in the Asiatic genera Colysis, Microsorium, and Leptochilus on the one hand and the New World members of Microgramma, Pleopeltis, and Polypodium bradeorum on the other.
2805666|Described as new are Lagenocarpus subaphyllus of the affinity of L. triqueter, and Rhynchospora caesionux of sect. Spermodontes. Lagenocarpus sect. Junciformes is proposed as new to accomodate the subaphyllous species of the genus with terminal panicles.
2807520|Forty-four chromosome counts from the North American genus Callirhoe are reported, including first-recorded counts of C. alcaeoides, C. digitata, C. bushii, C. triangulata, and C. involucrata var. tenuissima. Information concerning chromosome numbers from present and previous reports is summarized and evaluated. Observations are presented on meiosis for the genus in general, for male sterile individuals of gynodioecious species, and for selected $F_1$ hybrids. Pollen fertility data are recorded for the latter. Chromosomally three species groups are recognized: an exinvolucellate, diploid species group with n = 14; an involucellate, tetraploid and octoploid species pair, n = 28 and 56; and an involucellate, diploid and tetraploid species group with n =15 and 30. Intrageneric relationships and those within the tribe Malveae subtribe Malvinae are discussed.
2806661|Jatropha costaricensis is described from Guanacaste, Costa Rica and assigned to sect. Platyphyllae. It is most similar to J. alamanii of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Mexico, and represents part of a secondary Central American radiation of xeric-adapted Euphorbiaceae. Its geographic relationships indicate a formerly more widespread occurrence of a tropical deciduous flora in Mesoamerica, and it is suggested that xeric range disjunctions here and in adjacent South America may be largely due to climatically-induced extinction rather than to long-distance dispersal.
2806963|Described, figured and discussed are two new species of Chamaecrista sect. Absus from campo rupestre habitats in southeastern Brazil: Ch. axilliflora Irwin & Barneby, of series Adenophyllae, from central Bahia, related to Ch. adenophylla (Taubert) Irwin & Barneby; and Ch. gumminans Irwin & Barneby, of series Glutinosae, from central Minas Gerais, related to Ch. stillifera Irwin & Barneby.
2807711|A new species of Tachia, T. longipes, is described and illustrated. It is distinct from the other species of Tachia not only in its leaf and stem morphology but also in its characteristic pollen. A revised key to the neotropical species of Tachia is also provided.
2807316|Penstemon debilis, collected near Parachute on Mount Callahan in western Colorado, is described and illustrated. The species is endemic to the Parachute Creek Member of the Green River Formation. Oil shale endemism is discussed and the species is compared morphologically to similar species in sections Glabri, Coerulei, and Penstemon.
4099018| El gnero Pachycereus incluye 13 especies de acuerdo con las clasificaciones ms recientes, y se distribuye en Guatemala, Mxico y SW de los Estados Unidos, Se presenta un anlisis filogentico con el propsito de fundamentar la monofilia del gnero, respecto a los otros gneros de la subtribu Pachycereinae. Se cre una matriz utilizando 44 caracteres estructurales (morfologa y anatoma) y 29 taxones, incluyendo nueve especies de Pachycereinae. Los resultados indican que la subtribu Pachycereinae slo puede ser monofiltica si se incluyen dos especies de Stenocereus: S. aragonii y S. eichlamii, con base en dos caracteres de la semilla (paredes periclinales planas y microrrelieve finamente rugoso). El gnero Pachycereus no es monofiltico de acuerdo con la clasificacin ms reciente; Pachycereus hollianus y P. lepidanthus carecen de zona frtil diferenciada y representan el grupo hermano de las restantes especies de la subtribu Pachycereinae; P. fulviceps est relacionado con los gneros Cephalocereus y Neobuxbaumia por el tipo de zona nectarial, el color de la pulpa del fruto y los cristales prismticos de oxalato de calcio en clulas epidrmicas; P. grandis, P. pecten-aboriginum, P. pringlei, P. tepamo y P. weberi se resuelven como grupo monofiltico por presentar un surco angosto y una flor con constriccin en la base del tubo. Este grupo de cinco especies debe representar al gnero Pachycereus sensu stricto. /// The genus Pachycereus is restricted to Guatemala, Mexico, and the SW United States and includes 13 species according to the most recent classification. A phylogenetic analysis was conducted in order to test the monophyly of Pachycereus with respect to other genera of subtribe Pachycereinae. A matrix of 44 structural characters (morphology and anatomy) was scored for 29 taxa, including nine species of the Pachycereinae. Results obtained indicated that the subtribe Pachycereinae can only be monophyletic if two species of Stenocereus (S. aragonii and S. eichlamii) are included in it, based on two seed characters (smooth periclinal wall and finely rough relief). Pachycereus is not monophyletic according to the most recent classification. Pachycereus hollianus and P. lepidanthus lack a differentiated fertile zone, and form a basal group in the subtribe Pachycereinae; they do not belong to the genus Pachycereus. Pachycereus fulviceps is related to the genera Cephalocereus and Neobuxbaumia based on nectar zone type, color of fruit pulp, and prismatic calcium oxalate crystals in the epidermic cells. Pachycereus grandis, P. pecten-aboriginum, P. pringlei, P. tepamo, and P. weberi are a monophyletic group, based on the presence of a narrow interareolar groove and flowers with a basally constricted tube. This group of five species comprises the genus Pachycereus sensu stricto. 
2805743|The genus Phyllonoma, easily recognized by its epiphyllous inflorescence, ranges from the mountains of Mexico and Central America into the Andes of northwestern Bolivia. A key to the species and distribution maps and descriptions for the 4 species recognized, Phyllonoma rucifolia Willd. ex Schultes, P. tenuidens Pittier, P. Laticuspis (Turcz.) Engler, and P. weberbaueri Engler, are given. Vegetative and floral anatomy as well as pollen morphology are discussed in relation to taxonomy and phylogeny of the genus.
2806218|Juncus planifolius is reported for the first time from North America. Bibliographic notes on this species and its synonymy are given. Its distribution, dispersal and relation-ships within the genus are discussed.
3218494|Eight new species from Brazil, Ficus acreana, F. bahiensis, F. duartei, F. duckeana, F. hatschbachii, F. lagoensis, F. laureola, and F. rupicola, are described and illustrated. The new species are compared with other species of the genus.
40648180|Se describe Bourreria motaguensis, especie nueva del monte espinoso en los departamentos de El Progreso, Zacapa y Chiquimula, Guatemala y la selva baja caducifolia en Oaxaca y Chiapas, Mxico. Bourreria motaguensis is described as a new species from low elevation tropical deciduous forest, from the departments of El Progreso, Zacapa, and Chiquimula in Guatemala, and Oaxaca and Chiapas in Mxico.
2806760|This report presents a new combination for a Brazilian Vernonia.
2806572|Thymocarpus, apparently most closely related to Calathea, is described and illustrated. Its sole species, T. cannoides, has been collected in low-lands of eastern Venezuela and western Brazil.
3218459| Agouticarpa, a new genus of the informal Alibertia group (Rubiaceae), is described and illustrated. It comprises six species, and occurs from Costa Rica to Bolivia. Three species are here described as new: Agouticarpa grandistipula, A. hirsuta, and A. velutina. Additionally, three new combinations are made: A. curvifolia and A. williamsii (previously in Genipa) and A. isernii (previously in Alibertia). Agouticarpa is characterized by being dioecious, having elliptic to obovate, membranaceous stipules, male flowers in a branched dichasial or thyrse like inflorescence, a poorly developed cup-shaped calyx, pollen grains with 3-apertures, and large globose fruits. 
2806287|Trillium sulcatum, a new species with two petal color forms, was first circumscribed by Barksdale as a variety in 1938, but without a Latin diagnosis. It superficially resembles the mainly northern T. erectum and appears to be closely related to the primarily midwestern T. flexipes. Its distinguishing features are ringent flowers, short sepals, and long pedicels; additional characters are presented in a chart contrasting it with species with which it has been confused. Distribution suggesting relictual significance is documented. Except that intermediates with T. flexipes are occasional, T. sulcatum maintains its distinctiveness throughout its southern Appalachian range.
2806198|An attempt is made to estimate a mathematical expression for the underlying mean rate of evolution in organic systems, and in particular those of various plant groupings. This was done by considering the thermodynamic constraints on any system tending towards greater levels of complexity with time (or showing a progressive decrease in randomness). Orderliness is here equated with genetic-information, and rates of evolution are expressed as rates of information-accumalation. Mathematical relationships for evolutionary rates may also be expressed in terms of species number changes. Scattering of evolutionary rates about a theoretical mean is shown to be, in part, the result of environmental factors influencing the fixation of mutations within a phyletic group; "plasticity" (or physiologic adaptability) of any given genome is hypothesized to be related to regulatory-gene expressions. The discription of a mean rate with phyletic group scattering attempts to reconcile "steady-state" and differential rate models for evolution. A literature study of species citations indicates a high and positive correlation between geologic map area (and volume) during various time periods and the appearance of species per unit time. These data suggest that various biasing factors, influencing the preservation and interpretation of fossil data, make the fossil record an unreliable tool with which to gauge flux in species number changes.
2806525|Retrorsely barbed aristae on a few immature disk achenes of Coreopsis insularis (Brandegee) S. F. Blake, together with its other characters, suggest that the species would be better treated as Coreocarpus insularis.
2806104|Simaba orinocensis has been maintained as a species separate from S. multiflora because Kunth's illustration showed the flowers to be very different from those of S. multiflora. Examination of the holotype reveals that its flowers do not resemble those illustrated by Kunth but are very similar to those of S. multiflora. Therefore, the two names are considered taxonomic synonyms with S. orinocensis having priority. A complete synonymy is given.
2805720|Capsicum baccatum L. has frequently been treated as two distinct species, C. microcarpum Cav. and C. pendulum Willd. A biosystematic study reveals a quantitative and qualitative basis for morphological separation of C. baccatum into two taxa, while cytological and genetic data indicate their close similarity. A resolution of this apparent contradiction can be found in a "gigas" effect imparted to all the organ systems of cultivated C. baccatum while the fruit has been under intense subconscious and conscious artificial selective pressures for an increase in size. Few, if any, incipient genetic barriers have arisen to separate C. baccatum into distinct species. Cultivated C. baccatum has been isolated by man in a number of localities outside the range of wild C. baccatum. Where both cultivated and wild C. baccatum occur sympatrically, they are effectively isolated by an inbreeding mechanism and agricultural practices. On the basis of this investigation C. baccatum is treated as a wild variety, C. baccatum L. var. baccatum, and a cultivated variety, C. baccatum var. pendulum (Willd.) Eshbaugh.
2806758|Distribution maps, specimen citations, synonymies, descriptions, taxonomic commentaries and a key are provided for the 11 species of Lychnophora Mart. (Vernonieae: Compositae). One new species, Lychnophora diamantinana Coile & Jones, is described and several are excluded from the genus. Chromosome counts of n = 17 for four species of Lychnophora are reported together with field observations for many species. The genus is remarkable for its morphological adaptation to fire and xeric habitats and for its elaborate speciation in limited geographical area.
2807090|Eleven chromosome counts are reported for Brazilian populations of eight species of Andropogon. Counts for five of the species are first reports for the species. Four of these species, A. arenarius, A. glaziovii, A. lateralis, and A. lindmanii, are hexaploids (n = 30) and belong to a group of about a dozen species informally referred to as the Andropogon lateralis complex. Two other species of this complex, A. bicornis and A. hypogynus, we also found to be hexaploids, in agreement with previous reports. Diploid counts (n = 10) for A. macrothrix (a first report) and A. virgatus (the same as two previous reports) support the morphological affinities of these two species to other species complexes within Andropogon.
40648177|We here propose and describe three new species of Clidemia: C. aguilarii from Costa Rica and Panama; C. aurantiaca from Costa Rica, Panama, and Ecuador; and C. subpeltata, a Costa Rican endemic. Phenological notes, distribution maps, line drawings, color images of the live plants in the wild, and discussions comparing the new species to their presumed closest relatives are provided. Aqu proponemos y describimos tres especies nuevas de Clidemia: C. aguilarii de Costa Rica y Panam; C. aurantiaca de Costa Rica, Panam, y Ecuador; y C. subpeltata, endmica de Costa Rica. Se incluyen notas sobre su fenologa, mapas de su distribucin, ilustraciones, fotografas a color de plantas silvestres, as como discusiones comparando las nuevas especies con sus parientes aparentemente ms cercanos.
2806764|Eriodon is reduced from five species to two. Eriodon radicalis is recognized as Entodontopsis radicalis; Eriodon longipes as Porotrichodendron longipes; and E. brevisetus as synonymous with Lindigia debilis. Mandoniella, Stenocarpidiosis and Lepyrodontopsis are discussed and illustrated. Lepyrodontopsis is transferred to the new family Lepyrodontopsidanceae, near the Meteoriaceae. The following nomenclatural transfers are proposed for Rozea: R. andrieuxii f. chrysea and R. andrieuxii var. bourgaeana. Sciuroleskea is transferred to an alliance with Stereophyllum, Juratzkaea, Entodontopsis, Stenocarpidium and Juratzkaeella. The following transfers are proposed: Sciuroleskea roseorum (Williams as Rozea) Buck and Juratzkaea argentinica (Thr. as J. seminervis var. argentinica) Buck. A key to the erect-capsuled South American genera retained in the Brachytheciaceae is provided.
2805687|Notes on the taxonomy and distribution of various species of Labiatae of Mexico, and Central and South America, are presented, as part of a continuing series of supplements to the authors' earlier monographs. Eight new species are described in the genera Hyptis, Salvia, Satureja, and Scutellaria. Two new combinations are made, one each in Harlanlewisia and Satureja. A key and revision are given for the six species of Lepechinia sect. Parviflorae.
2805893|Hymenachne and Sacciolepis, two closely related tropical genera, have been distinguished by the saccate second glume in the latter, a trait lacking in the former. It is difficult to assign certain species to genus on this basis alone. A survey of both genera showed that aerenchyma fills the stem pith region of Hymenachne species but is absent or nearly so from Sacciolepis species. The leaf epidermis of Hymenachne bears prickle cells, which have not been reported from Sacciolepis. Additional anatomical details are given for H. amplexicaulis.
2806749|A provisional key to the species of Cybianthus subgenus Iteoides is presented and one new species, C. colombianus, is described, illustrated and discussed. Conomorpha loretensis Lundell is transferred to Cybianthus, its relationships within subgenus Weigeltia are discussed, and a key to its sister species, C. gardneri and C. dubius, is provided.
2807105|Leptocereus scopulophilus is newly described as endemic to the limestone summits and rocky hillsides of Somorrostro Hill, 25 km southeast of La Habana, Cuba. Since being discovered in 1923, it has been confused with Leptocereus leonii, from which it can be easily distinguished by its erect, ascending branches which are greater in diameter and often 4-5 ribbed, by the more prominent and less crenate ribs bearing more widely spaced areoles and longer spines, and by its larger flowers with exserted stigma lobes and nearly tubular, green, spiny receptacles. The fruits also differ in being larger and in bearing clusters of persistent spines at maturity.
2806014|The 15 species studied have chromosome numbers predominantly based on x = 8, and intraspecific polyploidy is frequent. The numbers x = 13 and x = 18 in two species are hypothesized to represent dibasic alloploidy rather than aneuploidy. The group forms a hybrid complex, with 11 basic diploids thus far discovered and with much morphological variation observed among species at the hexaploid and higher polyploid levels. Both alloploidy and introgression probably contribute to this pattern of variability. The known diploids are assigned to eight species, with the suggestion that further taxonomic division may be warranted as the group becomes better known. Seven recongnized species exist only as polyploids. Because ot their reticulate relationships, the polyploid populations form an extensively intergrading series of morphological types. It is cautioned that excessive taxonomic splitting, based on minor polyploid variants, might lead to an unwieldy and impractical classification for the group.
2805479|Chromosome numbers are reported for 48 collections representing ten species (and five subspecies) of Orobanche of western North America. Two species of sect. Gymnocaulis have 2n=48; previous counts are 2n=36 and 72 for one of these species. In sect. Nothaphyllon eight species have 2n=48 and three of these (O. cooperi, O. corymbosa, O. parishii) also have 2n=96. One instance (2n=72) of apparent intraspecific hybridization between the two polyploid levels was found in O. cooperi. The taxonomy of O. cooperi and of the closely related O. multicaulis is discussed in relation to polyploidy. A review of chromosome numbers in Orobanche points to the need for corroboration of the reports of 2n=36 and 40, as well as other specific counts. Probably x=12 for sections Gymnocaulis, Nothaphyllon, and Trionychon. Derivation of x=19 for sect. Orobanche remains problematical.
3218361|Fruit specimens representing five taxa of the genus Cyrtostachys were examined histologically in order to characterize the pericarp anatomy of the monogeneric subtribe Cyrtostachydinae (tribe Areceae, subfamily Arecoideae), as part of an ongoing survey of the family. The pericarp in this genus can be characterized by a combination of papillate epidermis, heavy layer of tanniniferous/pigmented cells below the epidermis, a system of vascular bundles with thick fibrous sheaths with purely fibrous bundles frequently above and below, absence of brachysclereids, and a very thin sclerified locular epidermis. On the basis of pericarp structure alone, the genus might be most closely related to the Gronophyllum alliance of the subtribe Arecinae. This diverges somewhat from the hypothesis of relationship with the Areca group of the Arecinae resulting from two DNA-based phylogenetic studies, and even further from the hypothesis of relationship with Iguanura suggested by another DNA-based phylogenetic study.
3218506|A new species of Leguminosae is described and illustrated: Martiodendron fluminense, the southernmost and the only species of the genus to occur in the Atlantic forests of southeastern Brazil.
2805660|Carex socialis, a new species in sect. Bracteosae, is described from southern Illinois and Missouri. It is remarkable in its possession of long creeping rhizomes, as well as in its extremely slender perigynia.
2807169|Zinnia marylandica, an artificial hybrid between Z angustifolia var. angustifolia (2n = 22, female) and Z. violacea (2n = 24, male), is described and illustated. Zinnia marylandica is a stabilized amphiploid (2n = 46) produced by colchicine-induced doubling of the sterile interpecific hybrids. It exhibits disease resistance to powdery mildew (Erysiphe cichoracearum), alternaria blight (Alternaria zinniae), and bacterial leaf and flower spot (Xanthomonas campestris pv. zinniae).
2806919|Petunia mantiqueirensis, a new species from the Serra da Mantiqueira, is described, and its morphological distinction from related species and features of the habitats are discussed.
2807777|A new species, Ruellia woolstonii C. Ezcurra from eastern Paraguay, is described, illustrated, and compared to related species.
2666521|Ficus boliviana is described from Bolivia and Peru, illustrated, and compared with other species in the genus.
2807618|Dalea acracarpica, from Chiapas, Mexico is described, illustrated, and referred to sect. Parosela ser. Lasiostomae; the var. chilensis is a yellow-flowered Chilean counterpart of purple Peruvian D. pennellii var. pennellii.
2806697|Edward Sanford Burgess is best remembered for his taxonomic works on the Biotian asters. In 1928 his Aster herbarium was bequeathed to the New York Botanical Garden. Burgess described 124 taxa of Aster, for 90 of which he failed to designate a type. A list of the Burgess Aster types deposited at NY is presented, including 57 lectotypic designations.
3218385| Campomanesia macrobracteolata and C. anemonea, apparently closely related species from Esprito Santo and Bahia, Brazil, are described as new and are illustrated. Comparisons are made with two other similar species. 
2805275|Agrostis clivicola, A. clivicola var. punta-reyesensis and A. blasdalei var. marinensis are described from the California coast. A key distinguishes these from other species of similar habit and habitat.
2805844|The variation in three species of Selaginella that occur in areas south and north of glaciated and periglacial regions is analysed. In each species the southern populations are more variable than the northern ones. These geographic patterns of variation are related to post-Wisconsin climatic changes and to the northward migration of each species. The geographic differentiation and migration of the species are seen as related phenomena. The concept of evolutionary migration-the operation of natural selection and of migration in mutually supportive roles-is discussed and applied to the examples in Selaginella. The possible broad significance of the process of evolutionary migration in floras directly under the influence of Wisconsin and post-Wisconsin environments is indicated.
2806138|Smilax jamesii, a new species from northern California is described and illustrated. Its distribution and its distinction from the other species of the area, S. californica (A. DC.) A. Gray, are discussed, as is its relationship to the other species of the section Coprosmanthus.
2805779|Extracts of three clonal strains of Spirodela, grown under eight controlled conditions of daylength and nutrient level, were run on two dimensional ascending chromatograms. A comparison of the replicated chromatograms shows that variation in spot patterns within a clonal strain is induced by environmental conditions.
2807002|Fontinalis welchiana, a new species in the concave-leaved group of Fontinalis restricted to Arkansas, Missouri, and Illinois, differs from F. novae-angliae by its slender size, dimorphic leaves, erect and strongly concave branch leaves, and lightly papillose exostome with ventral lamellae that are strongly rounded at the corners. Fontinalis allenii is a synonym of F. antipyretica var. oreganensis.
2666550|The genus Riodocea is here described from material collected in the varzea forest of the Rio Doce Valley, northern Espirito Santo. Riodocea is a monotypic genus probably related to the Amazonian endemic Kutchubaea. A line drawing shows general morphology and photomicrographs show pollen morphology of Riodocea pulcherrima. Distribution maps of Riodocea and Kutchubaea are included. The valley of the Rio Doce is here included in the Bahian Hylaea, defined as a subregion of the Brazilian Atlantic forest. The connections between the Amazonian Hylaea and the Bahian Hylaea are discussed.
2805460|On the basis of terpene composition, populations of B. microphylla show north to south affinities on both the Baja California peninsula and the northwest coast of Mexico. The lack of east to west population affinities corresponds with the presumed absence of land connections between the peninsula and mainland throughout the history of this taxon. Morphological similarities between populations in an east-west direction are explained on the basis of contemporary parallel selective influences and not by the closeness of relationship.
2807337|Seed morphology was studied in 15 species of four subgenera of Juncus occurring in Kansas, to determine if seeds provide traits useful in assessing systematic relations within the genus. In this study seed size and shape were of limited value, while surface ornamentation of the hard inner seed coat provided encouraging results. Subgenus Poiophylli showed little variation in surface ornamentation among taxa; similar ornamentation was observed in subgenus Genuini. Subgenera Graminifolii and Septati were separately distinct with the taxa in the Septati forming a continuum of variation.
2807103|The fern genus Elaphoglossum is well represented in wet, mountainous regions of Latin America, from which many species have recently been described. Six more new species of Elaphoglossum are reported: E. bryogenes from Ecuador and E. caudulatum, E. diminutum, E. delasotae, E. lellingeri, E. subcordatum, and E. xiphiophorum from Colombia.
2805771|Two Colombian species described earlier by the authors under Prinosciadium, and a hitherto unnamed collection from the same country are systematically compared with North American Prionosciadium and the monotypic genera Cotopaxia (Ecuador) and Perissocoeleum (Colombia). Habit, foliage, inflorescence, fruit, and distribution all suggest that the paramo species exhibit considerable unity if Cotopaxia is excluded. It is indicate also that the genus Prionosciadium has been attributed to South America incorrectly. Despite the somewhat discordant evidence obtained from pollen morphology, it is concluded that the most feasible disposition of the four Colombian plants is to unite them under Perissocoeleum.
4099038|A new species from China, Thrixspermum tsii (Orchidaceae), is described and illustrated and its relationships to T. centipeda and T. subulatum are discussed.
2806838|Descriptions, diagnoses and commentary are presented for new or critical taxa of the three fabalean families: in Mimosaceae: Mimosa pedalis, nom. provis. (illustr.) and pithecellobium micranthum Benth. = Acacia acuifera Benth.; in Caesalpiniaceae: Senna monilifera Irwin & Barneby, sp. nov., Chamaecrista coradinii Irwin & Barneby, sp. nov, Macrolobium cidii Barneby sp. nov. (illustr.), M. cowanii Barneby, sp. nov. (illustr.), M. grallator Barneby, sp. nov. (illustr.) and Dicymbe praeruptorum Barneby, sp. nov. (illustr.); and in Fabaceae: Swartzia ingens Barneby, sp. nov. (illustr.), Lecointea hatschbachii Barneby sp. nov. (illustr.), and Astragalus cremnophylax var. hevronii Barneby, var. nov.
2807651|A new variety, Ivesia aperta var. canina, is described from Dog Valley, Sierra County, Nevada. It differs from the typical variety and approaches I. sericoleuca in its larger, paler yellow petals; longer filaments and styles; and decumbent-ascending vs ascending-erect stems.
2807442|The Jacquinia armillaris group, a natural assemblage of chiefly Caribbean taxa, is revised. The group was found to include three species with different but slightly overlapping distributions: J. keyensis Mez, northern Caribbean, J. arborea Vahl, of central and southern Caribbean, and J. armillaris Jacq., of southern Caribbean (Lesser Antilles), northern South America, and eastern Brazil. All taxa are described and illustrated. Nomenclature is discussed and most names are typified.
3218452| Geranium sect. Gracilia (Geraniaceae) comprises nine species in the Andes of Venezuela and Colombia. Geranium lindenianum and G. gracilipes are synonymized with G. holosericeum. The identity of G. multiceps is clarified. Its differences from the two Colombian species, G. santanderiense and G. lainzii, are discussed. Geranium lignosum, G. sebosum, G. stoloniferum, G. subnudicaule, and G. velutinum are now considered to be members of sect. Gracilia. The identity of G. pilgerianum could not be clarified because the type was destroyed and other collections have not been found. Micromorphological leaf and seed characters are discussed. Six lectotypes and one neotype are designated. /// [Spanish]Se revisa Geranium sect. Gracilia (Geraniaceae), un grupo formado por nueve especies distribuidas por los Andes de Venezuela y Colombia. Se sinonimizan G. lindenianum y G. gracilipes a G. holosericeum. Se aclara la identidad de G. multiceps, y se establecen sus diferencias con G. santanderiense y con G. lainzii, ambas esencialmente colombianas. Se aceptan en esta seccin G. lignosum, G. stoloniferum y G. sebosum, propuestos tras la descripcin de la sect. Gracilia, y G. subnudicaule y G. velutinum, ya tratados por otros autores en como pertenecientes a este grupo. Por el contrario, la identidad de G. pilgerianum no ha podido ser aclarada tras la destruccin del tipo y ante la falta de otros materiales de la especie. Se estudian diversos caracteres micromorfolgicos, especialmente algunos referibles a la anatoma foliar y la de la semilla. Se designan seis lecttipos y un netipo. 
2805433|Documented chromosmone numbers and meiotic behavior were recorded for 23 taxa of 18 species of Cactaceae of southwestern United States and adjacent Mexico. All taxa are diploid (n = 11) or polyploid (n = 22, 23, 44), and with regular meiotic behavior.
4098985|Twenty collections representing one species each of Symbolanthus and Tachia, and 17 species of Macrocarpaea were studied by means of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Wood details show that the three genera form a coherent group; Tachia differs from the others in only a few minor characters. Because the species studied form a natural group, wood variations within Helieae offer the basis for correlations and interpretations with respect to habit and ecology. Diameter of stems studied proves to be an important variable that must be taken into account. Correlations with stem diameter include wider vessels in outer wood of wider samples. This would correspond to deeper penetration of reliable water tables by roots of helioid trees or large shrubs. Ray height decreases with increase in stem diameter, an indication of paedomorphosis. Rays of all species are paedomorphic in histology by virtue of relative paucity or even absence of procumbent cells in multiseriate rays. Pseudoscalariform lateral wall pitting of vessels is also a feature characteristic of paedomorphosis. The assemblage of paedomorphic features correlates well with the conclusion, reached by authors who used cladistic methods, that Gentianaceae other than Gentianeae are derived from suffrutescent perennials. The Mesomorphy Ratio, which incorporates three vessel features, correlates with leaf length and with stem diameter. All Helieae are mesophytic, but to various degrees. Septate fiber-tracheids, where present, are typically near vessels and form a substitute for or an addendum to vasicentric axial parenchyma as a mechanism for photosynthate storage. Vestured pits occur on lateral wall pits of vessels of all Helieae, but not on the fiber-tracheids. Vestured pits show diversity within Macrocarpaea, a feature of possible systematic significance.
2807594|The vegetation of seasonally flooded savannas in the tropical lowland of the Departamento La Paz, northern Bolivia, was studied. A first collection of vascular plants in this area includes about 600 species, at least three of which are new to the Bolivian flora and four are new to science. The eight major vegetation types distinguished within the savannas are dry bunchgrass savanna ("altura"), seasonally flooded bunch-grass community ("sartenejal"), palm swamp ("palmar"), two types of river floodplains ("bajos"), a tall shrub community ("chaparral"), the vegetation of termite mounds, and gellery forest. The study area is among the least known in Bolivia. There is a strong need for further studies of these savannas.
3218413|Quercus tuitensis, a deciduous red oak known only from the Sierra El Tuito on the Pacific slopes of western Jalisco, Mexico, is described, illustrated, and compared to Q. praineana Trel. In addition, Q. aequivenulosa and Q. coffeaecolor are reaffirmed as synonyms of Q. praineana.
3218354| Three new species of Malouetia (Apocynaceae) are described and illustrated: M. amazonica and M. pumila from Brazil and M. gentryi from Peru. Malouetia amazonica grows in inundated igap forest, whereas the other two are found in non-inundated habitats: M. pumila in campa fechada, and M. gentryi in upland forest. 
2805915|Gustavia grandibracteata is newly described and compared with Gustavia superba (H.B.K.) Berg, a more common, sympatric species.
3218430| The present paper describes and illustrates the new species Averrhoidium dalyi and provides a key to the species of Averrhoidium. The new species is known from lowland, terra firme forest in the Purus River basin, in Acre, Brazil, and from Manu National Park in Madre de Dios, Peru. [Spanish]En el presente artculo se describe, discute e ilustra la nueva especie Averrhoidium Dalyi coleccionada en la cuenca del Ro Purus en el estado de Acre, Brasil y en el Parque Nacional del Manu en el departamento Madre de Dios, Peru. Tambin en el presente se provee una clave para las especies de Averrhoidium. 
3218502|The misapplied name Cycas rumphii Miquel is demonstrated to be based on discordant elements, and is lectotypified by excluding the discordant elements of the protologue. Synonymy and misapplications of the name are provided.
2805692|The new genus, Vilobia, is described and its position within the Tageteae is discussed. The type species from Bolivia, V. praetermissa Strother, is described and Illustrated.
2806101|Rhodocybe pulchrisperma is described as a new species of Agaricales from North America. It belongs in section Rhodocybe due to the brightly colored pseudocystidia and lack of clamp connections. The very large, handsomely ornamented basidiospores distinguish this species from others in the section. A key to taxa from Florida, Papua New Guinea, and India that exhibit similar features is presented.
2807391|On the basis of newly acquired morphological evidence gathered in the course of floristic studies, the monotypic genus Neowawraea Rock is now recognized as a species of Flueggea Willd. and is renamed F. neowawraea W. J. Hayden. Taxonomic documentation presented for F. neowawraea includes an expanded morphological description, a map showing its widely scattered distribution in the Hawaiian Islands to which the species is endemic, and discussions of type speciments, common names, and its extreme rarity. The combination of flowers in pedicellate axillary clusters, the lobed staminate disk. pistillode, extrorse anthers, hemitropous ovules, and, especially, the smoothish dry seeds with a deep sub-hilar pit indicate placement in section Flueggea subsection Flueggea. The newly recognized species appears most closely related to F. flexuosa Muell. Arg.
2805888|Chromosome numbers are reported from over 230 populations representing species in eight genera. First counts are reported for three species of Stephanomeria, five species of Lygodesmia, and one species of Pinaropappus. Base chromosome numbers, x = 6, 7, 8, and 9 are known in the subtribe; x = 9 is found in six of the 12 genera and presumably is the ancestral base number for the subtribe. Two phyletic lines, a Malacothrix line and a Stephanomeria line are recognized on morphological grounds. A key to the 12 genera is provided.
2806917|A new species of Spiranthinae from Mexico, Galeottiella hintoniorum, is described and illustrated. It is placed in the genus Galeottiella because of its lip and column structure and its herbaceous, cauline bracts and because Galeottiella is the oldest genus in the subtribe that can accommodate it. This new species is distinguished from other members of the genus by its epiphytic habit, small stature, and few-flowered inflorescences.
2807195|Within the great expanse of the Brazilian Amazon Basin, Sphagnum has been greatly overlooked, in part because of its scarcity and in part because of the paucity of trained bryological collectors in the area. During a Projeto Flora Amaznica expedition in 1979, seven specimens of Sphagnum were collected, representing six species, five of which are newly described: S. amazonicum, S. dimorphophyllum, and S. subsecundoides in section Sphagnum; S. curicuriariense and S. ripense in sect. Sub-secunda. Also discussed are S. negrense Mitt. and S. sanguinale Warnst.
2807118|The tribal name Bocageeae Endliches is reestablished and the tribe is circumscribed on the basis of solitary internodal ebracteate pedicels that are articulated at the bases, and pollen shed in polyads of eight or more grains. Septate anther locules, large pollen size, and seed appendages are prevalent in the tribe. Intectate pollen with free-standing columellae, rare in Annonaceae, occurs not only in the genus Trigynaea but also in some species of Bocagea and Hornschuchia. As defined here, the Bocageeae include seven neotropical genera: Cymbopetalum, Porcelia, Bocagea, Cardiopetalum, Froesiodendron, Hornschuchia, and Trigynaea. The latter five genera are revised and the treatments include ten new species: Cardiopetalum plicatum, Froesiodendron urceocalyx, Hornschuchia lianarum, H. santossii, H. leptandra, Trigynaea cinnamomea, T. lanceipetala, T. triplinervis, T. lagaropoda, and T. axilliflora, all from tropical south America. A new combination, Froesiodendron longicuspe, changes the rank of that taxon from subspecies to species. Cardiopetalum surinamense is removed from Froesiodendron and reassigned to Cardiopetalum on the basis of its connate petals, dehiscent monocarps, and seeds with bilobed arils. A cladogram provides an explicit hypothesis of intergeneric relationships in the tribe. The new combination Onychopetalum periquino, based on Trigynaea periquino, is made.
2806683|Asclepias welshii, restricted to the Coral Pink Sand Dunes of southern Utah, is described and illustrated. Its relationship to other species of series Roseae is discussed.
2806984|A new species, Acacia sousae, from the state of Guerrero and Puebla is described and illustrated. A key for determination of the related species is given.
2806869|Salvia paryskii, a yellow-flowered member of section Ekmania, is described and illustrated from the narrow ridge connecting Pic Formon and Pic Macaya in the Massif de la Hotte of Haiti. The new species is compared to its closest relative, S. tuerckheimii, and differs primarily in its obovate leaves and denser inflorescences. Included is a brief discussion of the vegetation of this remote area of Parc National Pic Macaya.
2807412|Quiina ternatiflora C. H. Wright is the only member of the family Quiinaceae reported from Cuba. An examination of the holotype indicates that this is a species of Ilex, and the tranfer is made as Ilex ternatiflora (C. H. Wright) R. Howard. A study of other Ilex species from Cuba indicates that a new name, Ilex walsinghamii Howard, is required for Ilex wrightii Loes. not Trel.
2806247|Maranthes, previously known in the Neotropics only from Panama, has recently been collected in Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Prior to publication of the Chrysobalanaceae of the Flora de Nicaragua, the new combination Maranthes panamensis (Standl.) Prance & F. White is made and based on Couepia panamensis, previously considered conspecific with the Asiatic M. corymbosa Blume.
2805948|Examination of flowers from herbarium specimens of Spiranthes ovalis revealed two kinds of column structure. Some plants, including the type, have flowers with a normally developed rostellum and viscidium; other plants that have flowers in which these structures are entirely lacking are here described as Spiranthes ovalis var. erostellata. Self-pollination in the new variety was proven by pollinia removal and observation of plants in insect-proof cages. The var. erostellata has a somewhat smaller perianth with sepals 3.5-5 instead of 4-6.1 mm long and is more common and more widespread than the typical variety.
2805276|Quantitative analyses of eleven vegetative characters were obtained from five genetically distinct clones of the leafy hepatic, Lophocolea heterophylla, grown in pure culture in a variety of controlled environments.
2807485|Nassauvia coronipappa Arroyo & Marticorena, from Cerro Donoso in eastern Chilean Patagonia, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished by trifid inner involucral bracts and persistent, brief, laciniate-dentate, crown-like pappus incompletely surrounding summit of the achene. The distinctive pappus may be related to selection, in harsh alpine habitats, against dispersal away from nurse sites. Nassauvia coronipappa belongs to subgenus Nassauvia. It is seen as a relict member of an independent line of evolution, whose closest affinities are with section Nassauvia of that subgenus.
2806383|The Pantanal is the region on the Brazil-Bolivia frontier in the Paraguay river basin, that is predominantly, but not exclusively covered by various types of swamp vegetation. The vegetation of the area was studied by extensive collecting and through measuring trees on five one-hectare plots of cerrado and semi-deciduous forest. The region consists of various types of swamp, gallery forest, lake margin scrub forest, semi-deciduous forest, and several forms of cerrado and savanna. The vegetation is made up of species derived from the cerrado of Central Brazil, the Chaco and Amazonia. It also includes many widespread but few endemic species. Little vegetation remains undisturbed due to the influence of cattle, fire and man. Good examples of the various vegetation formations can still be found and are in urgent need of conservation.
2666625|The new species Marsdenia woodburyana from southwestern Puerto Rico is described, illustrated, and contrasted to its putatively closest relative. The new name Calyptranthes proctorii is provided for the later homonym Calyptranthes uniflora Proctor.
4497329|Symplocos pachycarpa is described as new, and an illustration is provided. This species grows in cloud forests and oak-pine forests of Oaxaca and Guerrero, Mexico, and is most similar to S. citrea. A key is provided to distinguish S. pachycarpa from related Mexican species.
2807684|Ficus lacunata Kvitvik, a new species of subgen. Pharmacosycea sect. Pharmacosycea collected in the provinces of Carchi, imbabura, and Pichincha in Ecuador, shows affinities to both Ficus macbridei Standl. and Ficus tonduzii Standl. but differs distinctly in leaf and syconium characters.
2807758|Petunia bajeensis and P. riograndensis, two new species from southern Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil are described, and their morphological distinction from related species and features of their habitats are discussed.
2807170|A new species of Bromeliaceae, Tillandsia tragophoba, is described from the Atacama Desert of northern Chile. The leaves of this new species are green, essentially glabrous and form a basal tank capable of holding water, quite unlike the typical gray-leaved, terrestrial or lithophytic bromeliads usually found within the coastal desert province of western South America. A description and illustration are provided, and its relationships discussed.
2806159|Nymphaea amazonum Mart. & Zucc., a nocturnally flowering species, is visited by the scarab beetle Cyclocephala mollis Endrodi in the Pantanal region of Mato Grosso, Brazil. Beetles were found in all flowers examined and some remain in the flowers during the day. The beetles are dusted with pollen in second-day flowers and carry it to first-day flowers which have receptive stigmas.
3218520| Satyria ventricosa and Vaccinium monteverdense from Panama and Costa Rica, respectively, are described and illustrated. Gonocalyx megabracteolatus and Vaccinium talamancense are new combinations. Relationships of the new species are discussed. Keys are provided for the entire genus Gonocalyx, and for Satyria in Mesoamerica. /// [Spanish]Se describen Satyria ventricosa y Vaccinium monteverdense de Panam y Costa Rica, respectivamente, con sus ilustraciones. Se hace una nueva combinacin de Gonocalyx megabracteolatus y Vaccinium talamancense. Tambin se discuten las relaciones entre las nuevas especies. Se incluyen claves para el gnero completo Gonocalyx y para el gnero Satyria en Mesoamrica. 
2807481|A history of the collecting and naming of Thalictrum confine Fern. is detailed in an attempt to clear up long-standing nomenclatural and taxonomic confusions. Thalictrum confine has traditionally been distinguished from T. venulosum Trel. on the basis of its larger, falcate fruits; however, the lectotype of T. confine consists only of a packet of terete, subcylindric fruits, even smaller than those of the type specimen of T. venulosum. Fernald's original description of T. confine also does not match large-fruited plants which he later referred to that species. Those plants first cited by him as T. occidentale A. Gray, and later distributed as Gray Herbarium exsiccatae under the name T. confine, match specimens presently found at the type location of T. confine. Although fruit-growth was apparently arrested by frost-damage in the lectotype, it is perceived to represent the larger-fruited plants as well. Thalictrum confine is placed in synonymy under polymorphic T. venulosum. Acceptance of infraspecific taxa in the group is discouraged, but, for those who wish to segregate larger-fruited trans-Canadian plants, the correct varietal name is T. venulosum var. confine (Fern.) B. Boivin, with T. turneri B. Boivin in synonymy.
30219396|Calycogonium formonense, a new species, is here described from the floristically diverse Massif de la Hotte of southern Haiti. It is compared to C. hispidulum, to which it is likely related. Although the genus Calycogonium is not monophyletic, C. formonense and C. hispidulum are probably related to other species, e.g., C. calycopteris, C. heterophyllum, and C. reticulatum, that exhibit reduced inflorescences and 4-merous flowers having hypanthia with four conspicuous lobes separated by longitudinal grooves and external calyx lobes that are flattened parallel to the floral radii. These distinctive species may form a clade. Calycogonium formonense is distinguished from C. hispidulum by its smaller leaves with the tertiary veins not raised on the abaxial surface, with entire margins (i.e., margin without elongate multicellular hairs), and usually solitary flowers.
2806466|William Baldwin, M.D., conducted extensive studies of the Cyperaceae early in the nineteenth century, but most of his botanical knowledge was left in his herbarium or in manuscript form when he died at the age of 41. This collection of 18 specimens of Rhynchospora was donated by Baldwin to the American Philosophical Society shortly before his death in 1819. Later these collections were transferred to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia where they now reside. The plants are from southeastern Georgia and eastern Florida. Eight of the specimens represent duplicate type material of species described by Stephen Elliott (1816) in his Sketch of the Botany of South-Carolina and Georgia, and by Asa Gray (1835) in his Monograph of the North American species of Rhynchospora. Commentary on these eight specimens is presented in this paper.
2806001|Opuntia fragilis has been reported only once from Illinois. Recent workers have not been able to find a substantiating specimen and have excluded the species from the flora. The missing specimen has now been found and is referable to this species.
2805809|Natural and synthetic hybrids are reported between Panicum scribnerianum Nash and two other species, P. pacificum Hitchc. & Chase and P. occidentale Scribn. & Merr. The hybrids are morphologically intermediate between the parents, and those in which P. pacificum is one parent strongly resemble the rare P. shastense Scribn. & Merr. All the parent plants studied cytologically had regular meiosis and a gametic number of n = 9 chromosomes. The hybrids usually showed good pairing of chromosomes in meiosis, but irregularities such as univalents and lagging chromosomes were common. In the hybrids generally less than 7% of the pollen grains stained with cotton blue in lactophenol, and the plants set no seed, whereas the parent plants generally had over 90% pollen stainability and a high percentage of seed set. Pollen from P. shastense, like that of the hybrids, was 3-4% stainable. Panicum shastense is believed to be based on a first generation sterile hybrid and the name P. X shastense is proposed.
2806097|A survey of flavonoids in 31 Asian, African and Neotropical species of Parinari showed a predominance of flavonol glycosides based on myricetin, quercetin, and kaempferol. The african taxa split into two groups based on the presence or absence of myricetin glycosides. The Neotropical taxa, a complex of closely related species, are chemically very similar to each other and lack myricetin, as does one group of African species. The Asian taxa are similar to the Neotropical ones in their flavonoid patterns and lack of myricetin glycosides. The presence of myricetin, considered a primitive flavonoid character, suggests that the African species producing this flavonol represent a primitive nucleus from which a non-myricetin group may have evolved giving rise by subsequent eastward and westward expansion to two myricetin-lacking phytogeographic lines. This hypothesis is in agreement with current proposals for geographic evolution in the Chrysobalanaceae.
2805427|A new genus and species Monogereion carajensis and a new species of Ageratum, A. glomeratum, are described from Para, Brazil. The relationships of the new genus and species are discussed.
2805625|Dendrosida, here described as new, comprises three taxa: D. batesii Fryxell, D. sharpiana (Miranda) Fryxell ssp. sharpiana, and D. sharpiana ssp. occidentalis Fryxell. The genus is interpreted as a primitive representative of the tribe Malveae, and its relationship to other genera of the Abutilon allience is discussed. An analysis of mericarp morphology in relation to seed dissemination mechanisms indicates that the Abutilon alliance may be divided into an Abutiloid and a Sidoid group. Dendrosida is included in the latter.
2807255| Recent collections from Serra do Arac in northern Brazil include range extensions for several Guayanan Ericaceae and the new Vaccinium pipolyi Luteyn which is herein described and illustrated. 
3218529|A closely related group of Great Basin endemic drabas, Draba cusickii O. E. Schulz, D. sphaeroides Payson, and D. pedicellata (Rollins & R. A. Price) Windham, are described, keyed, and discussed in order to put D. pedicellata var. wheelerensis N. H. Holmgren, var. nov. in perspective. Draba cusickii is endemic to Steens Mountain of southeastern Oregon, and D. sphaeroides is known only from three mountain ranges in Elko County, Nevada, whereas D. pedicellata is more widespread in mountain ranges of eastern Nevada in Elko, Eureka, Nye, and White Pine counties. Draba pedicellata var. pedicellata occupies most of the range of the species, with var. wheelerensis being restricted to the Snake Range, just to the east of the range of the typical variety.
2805694|The status of the subgenus Cosmanthus, as interpreted by Constance, is reviewed in terms of cytological, phytogeographical, and morphological criteria. Conclusions are advanced that this is an unrelated assemblage of at least five distinct evolutionary groups. These groups, roughly comparable to sections, are delineated and identification "key" to species is presented.
2805902|The current taxonomic treatment of the genus Pipturus (Urticaceae) in the Hawaiian Islands is evaluated in terms of anatomical and cytological criteria. This work revealed no distinct anatomical discontinuities between ten of the 13 species currently recognized. All taxa were found to be diploid with the chromosome complement of 14 pairs. The conclusion is advanced that the ingress of this genus to Hawaii probably involved a single introductory stock and that the current 13 species may be a large complex of intergrading races involving perhaps only two species.
2807880|A revision of the dioecious genus Chersodoma (Senecioneae, Asteraceae) recognizes nine species, including a new species, C. deltoidea Sagst. & M. O. Dillon, from northern Peru and a status change for a northwestern Argentine endemic, C. glabriuscula (Cabrera) M. O. Dillon & Sagst. Chersodoma is confined to the Andean Cordillera and is the only dioecious member of the Senecioneae in continental South America. A cladistic analysis of a morphological data set supports the monophyly of the genus and the recognition of two previously established subgenera. Subgenus Chersodoma contains three species (C. argentina,C. candida, C. jodopappa) with greatest diversity in the semi-arid puna of northwestern Argentina and adjacent Bolivia and Chile. Subgenus Diclinanthus B. Nord., contains six species (C. antennaria, C. arequipensis, C. deltoidea, C. juanisernii, C. glabriuscula and C. ovopedata) with greatest diversity in Peru. A key to Andean of Senecioneae is provided. A discussion of species relationships and historical biogeography is presented as suggested by morphological parsimony analysis.
2807286|Three new species (Heliconia fredberryana, H. litana, and H. lutheri) and one new subspecies (H.obscura ssp. dichroma) from Ecuador are described, illustrated, and discussed.
4497362|Although Africa harbors low species diversity compared to the neotropics or South East Asia, the African fern flora is of interest because of its specific composition and geographic location between the neotropics and Asia. We address the question of how the evolution of the African fern flora may have been enriched by repeated input from the neotropics and Asia. For the purpose of this paper we consider three major biogeographic regions: the neotropics, Africa and Madagascar, and Asia including Malesia and Australasia. We interpret distribution data for six clades of Polypodiaceae in a molecular phylogenetic framework. We conclude that African fern taxa shared with or closely related to ones in the neotropics or Asia have been brought about by ancient and recent dispersal events with or without subsequent speciation. The African fern flora is interpreted as being composed of endemic, neotropical, and Asian elements and as being situated in a zone of overlap of typical neotropical and Asian fern floras.
2805626|New data or new combinations are given for 19 species of rhodophylloid fungi (sensu Largent & Benedict, 1970b), reported from the West Coast. Fifteen species, Alboleptonia adnatifolia Largent & Benedict (=Pleuropus adnatifolius Murr.), *Nolanea californica (Murr.) Largent (=Eccilia californica Murr.), *Nolanea edulis (Peck) Largent (=Leptonia edulis Peck), *Entoloma ferruginans Peck, *Leptonia fuliginosa (Murr.) Murr., Nolanea fusciceps (Knauff.) Larget (=Leptonia fusciceps Kauff.) Nolanea latifolia Kauff., *Leptonia nigra (Murr.) Murr., *Leptonia nigricans (Peck) Largent (=Eccilia nigricans Peck), *Leptonia occidentalis (Murr.) Murr., *Nolanea occidentalis Murr., Leptonia subeuchroa Kauff., Entoloma trivialis (Kauff.) Largent (=Leptonia trivialis Kauff.), *Entoloma washingtonense Murr., and *Leptonia yatesii (Murr.) Largent (=Eccilia yatesii Murr.), are considered to be members of the rhodophylloid fungi. Four species, Claudopus affinis Kauff., Eccilia bispora Kauff., Claudopus cortinicinctus Kauff., and Claudopus subargillaceus Kauff., are placed in a list of fungi to be excluded from further studies in the rhodophylloid fungi. Five species, Claudopus commixtus Kauff., Entoloma sericiceps Murr., Claudopus avellaneus Murr., Entoloma plumbeum Earle, and Pleuropus avellaneus Murr., were not studied. Information on ten species (*) is given to supplement that furnished in type studies by Hesler (1963, 1967).
2805549|Both 4-lobed and 5-lobed disk flower corollas have been found is species of Coreopsis. A brief survey of several manuals for portions of the eastern and southern United States indicated that the 4-lobed condition is relatively rare in Compositae. A survey of the North American species of Coreopsis suggests that the character has high taxonomic significance in the genus.
2805456|Five new species are described, three of which, C. crassiflora, C. paucipetaba, and C. trochilus, belong to sect. Heterodon, a group of predominantly annual, western Mexican species. The perennial C. rasilis is a new member of sect. Melvilla and the perennial C. Spectabilis is new to sect. Diploplychia. Chromosome numbers for the annual species and two additional ones, C. procumbens and C. koehneana, closely related to the novelties, are reported for the first time.
2807220|Nomenclatural problems involving closely related North American goldenasters are resolved. No original type material (a collection by John Bradbury) is known for Amellus villosus Pursh, which is the basionym for the taxon referred to as Chysopsis villosa and more recently as Heterotheca villosa. The species is the first-described taxon in Heterotheca sect. Phyllotheca. A collection by Bradbury (LIV) was found to belong in H. camporum and does not match Pursh's protologue. A neotype (PH) was selected from collections by Thomas Nuttall. A problem in the typification of the second oldest taxon in sect. Phyllotheca was encountererd. The specimen field at K as the type of Diplopappus hispidus Hook, was not the specimen cited in the protologue. A lectotype has been designated from collections by Richardson at BM. Other taxa placed in synonymy are also typified.
2805932|A taxonomic revision of Cordylanthus subg. Hemistegia based on evidence from morphology, chromosome numbers, habitat, ecology, and geographic distribution is presented, recognizing four species and five subspecies. Three new combinations on the subspecific level are proposed. The first chromosome counts for subg. Hemistegia are reported with haploid numbers of n=14, 15, and 21. Each species is illustrated with line drawings showing habit and floral morphology; distribution maps indicate sites of known populations. The possible extinction of C. mollis ssp. mollis and C. palmatus is discussed, and the urgent need for preservation of their saline and alkaline habitats is emphasized.
2806832|Cytological and morphological variation among Krigia species is examined. Krigia exhibits a broad range of chromosome numbers including n = 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 15, and 30. Section Krigia is characterized by reflexed phyllaries and a base chromosome number of x = 5, while section Cymbia is characterized by erect phyllaries and chromosomes numbers of n = 4, 6, and 9. The micromorphological characteristics of achenes, pappus, styles, corolla, pollen, stomata, and trichomes are documented using scanning eletron microscopy. Among these, the pappus shows the greatest diversity and three major types are identified: 1) a pappus of many bristles and scales, as in K. dandelion, K. montana, and K. biflora; 2) a pappus of five bristels and five scales, as in K. virginica and K. occidentalis; and 3) an absent or highly reduced pappus, as in the K. cespitosa complex and K. wrightii. Thirty-five cytological and morphological characters are subjected to phylogenetic analyses. The two sections, Krigia and Cymbia, form monophyletic lineages. Within section Krigia, the annual species, K. virginica, forms an independent clade, while the perennial species, K. dandelion, K. biflora, and K. montana, form a monophyletic clade. Krigia montana and K. biflora are identified as sister species and a hybrid between these has been identified. The hybrid is more similar morphologically to K. montana than K. biflora. Within section Cymbia, phylogenetic relationships among K. wrightii, K. occidentails, and K. cespitosa are uncertain. Nine taxa of Krigia are herein recognized: K. dandelion, K. biflora, K. biflora var. viridis (comb. nov.), K. montana, K. virginica, K. wrightii (comb. nov.), K. occidentalis, K. cespitosa, and K. cespitosa f. gracilis (comb. nov.). Phylogenetic relationships among 12 taxa of Krigia species are compared using various combinations of morphology, chloroplast DNA, and nuclear ribosomal DNA data. Tree topologies from different combinations of data are largely congruent. The most resolved phylogenetic tree is obtained using the combined data from morphology, chloroplast DNA, and nuclear ribosomal DNA.
2805974|Nine species are admitted in Marasmius section Globulares for the United States. The presence or absence of cystidia, as well as their morphology and distribution, provides a convenient means for distinguishing species. Taxa possessing setae or bromm cells are excluded from section Globulares and are considered best accommodated in Marasmius section Sicci. Descriptions and illustrations of poorly known species are given; references to complete treatments of well-known species are cited. A key to species if provided. Marasmius nigrodiscus is proposed as a new combination, and Marasmius lilacinus is lectotypified.
2805478|Froesia venezuelensis, a new species from Venezuela, is described, and the two previously known species of Froesia are revised.
2805443|Ambrosia dumosa (A Gray ex Torr.) Payne is one of the most abundant shrubs of the Sonoran Desert. Allopatric and sympatric populations of this species frequently exhibit distinctive morphological features, particularly with regard to leaf-segment width, but also in blooming time and ecology. Chromosome numbers of n = 18,36 and 54 were frequently encountered in our preliminary investigations of A. dumosa. Fifty-six chromosome number determinations have now accumulated for this taxon, and these additional counts confirm the existence of three major chromosome races within A. dumosa. Diploids generally occur throughout the range of the species; hexaploids tend to be confined to the deserts of California; and tetraploids occur through most of the range of the sepecies, with the exception of southern Baja California and Owens Valley, California. External morphology was found to be correlated with chromosome number only locally, but even in many local areas, morphological intergradation occurs between different chromosome races. It is therefore considered impractical to attempt a formal taxonomy which would recognize these chromosomal races.
4497373| Capparicordis, genus novum is established for Capparicordis crotonoides, C. tweediana, and C. yunckeri, all new combinations here established for three former species of the New World Capparis, Sect. Colicodendron. The first two are xerophytic shrubs or small trees easily separated by flower color, and the last is a grapple-hook scrambler of which flowers are unknown. They have allopatric distributions: C. crotonoides is found in Peru and Ecuador west of the Andes, C. tweediana from Argentina to Bolivia and Paraguay east of the Andes, whereas C. yunckeri is a rare, local endemic from the arid woodlands near Coyoles in northern Honduras. All have stellate pubescence, broadly cordate to subrotund-reniform leaves with (sub)palmate venation at the leaf blade base; a valvate calyx with closed aestivation; baccate subspherical fruits dehiscent by 2-4 valves (indehiscent in C. yunckeri?); cochleate-reniform seeds surrounded by a pulp-derived sarcotesta densely infiltrated by unbranched, unicellular hairs from the testa; and snow-white embryos. Capparicordis crotonoides has n=8 chromosomes. /// Se establece Capparicordis genus novum, para tres especies alopitricas, xerofticas de pubescencia estrellada, formalmente puestas en Capparis s.l.: Las comunes sudamericanas de flores amarillas, Capparicordis crotonoides comb. nov., localizada al oeste de los Andes de Per y Ecuador; Capparicordis tweediana comb. nov., distribuida al este de los Andes de Bolivia, Paraguay y Argentina; y Capparicordis yunckeri comb. nov., un raro arbusto trepador de flores desconocidas, restringido a las ridas tierras bajas de Coyoles, al norte de Honduras, por primera vez discutida en detalle en este trabajo. Todas estas especies se caracterizan por tener hojas ampliamente cordadas hasta subrotundo-reniformes con nervios (sub)palmeados en la base de la laimina, cliz valvado con aestivacin cerrada, frutos abayados subsfericos, dehiscentes en 2-4 valvas (o indehiscentes en C. yunckeri?), con semillas cochleado-reniformes cubiertas por una sarcotesta de pelos unicelulares no ramificados, infiltrados y embriones blancos. Capparicordis crotonoides tiene un nmero cromosmico n = 8. 
2806134|Most North American botanists include Diplachne in Leptochloa but good evidence for this treatment has never been provided. the diagnostic characters of these two closely related genera of the tribe Eragrosteae are presented and the seven species of Diplachne and six of Leptochloa occurring in America north of Mexico are distinguished. Three new combinations are made in Diplachne : D. sect. Ipnum, D. panicoides and D. monticola and the generic disposition of all the Central and North American species noted.
23254254|A cladistic analysis was conducted to test the monophyly of Eschweilera and Lecythis as well as to examine the relationships of these two genera and their close relatives Bertholletia and Corythophora. The study included 86 species, representing all four genera and covering the range of taxonomic and morphological variation in the genera. The data matrix included 49 parsimony-informative characters derived from vegetative, floral, fruit, and seed morphology and anatomy. The results based on the consensus of all most parsimonious trees indicate that Bertholletia, Corythophora, Eschweilera, and Lecythis form a clade supported by brachyparacytic stomata, the absence of pedicels (with subsequent reversals in several clades), a two or fourlocular ovary, the presence of an aril, and the absence of cotyledons. Within the clade, the monophyly of Corythophora is supported by the presence of inflorescence scales and the absence of nectar. Eschweilera is monophyletic only if E. congestiflora and E. simiorum are excluded. The monophyly of Eschweilera is supported by the presence of a two-locular ovary. Lecythis is not monophyletic, but sections Corrugata, Pisonis, and Poiteaui are monophyletic. Three species of section Lecythis are more closely related to Eschweilera, and other species of section Lecythis along with Bertholletia excelsa remain as unresolved.
2806237|Two new Alismatidae, Echinodorus eglandulosus and Zannichellia andina, are described, illustrated, and compared to their nearest relatives.
2805854|As treated here, Xylorhiza is a genus of eight species and two varieties of shrubs and suffruticose perennials. The relationships of the genus with others in the tribe Astereae is in need of more intensive study. However, Xylorhiza is easily distinguished from Machaeranthera, to which there is purportedly a close relationship, and merits generic status.
2806288|Polygonella ciliata var. basiramia and P. fimbriata var. robusta are raised in rank to P. basiramia (Small) Nesom & Bates, comb. nov., and P. robusta (Small) Nesom & Bates, comb. nov. Although the morphological similarity between P. ciliata and P. basiramia and between P. fimbriata and P. robusta is greater than between any other species of the genus, the sister species of each newly recognized pair are separated by morphological discontinuities and are completely allopatric with each other. In agreement with Wunderlin (1981) we recognize three varieties within P. polygama, but our criteria for their identification are slightly different than his.
2805998|It is proposed that the Bruchiaceae be restored as a family distinct from the Dicranaceae on the basis of the longnecked, stomatose capsules. The peristome teeth, when present, are vertically barred (or papillose when reduced) rather than vertically pitted. The family is considered to consist of Bruchia, Pringleella, Eobruchia gen. nov., and Trematodon. The Bruchiaceae seem transitional between the Dicranaceae and the Ditrichaceae. Wilsoniella is transferred to the Ditrichaceae and Campylostelium venezuelanum to Dicranella.
2807661|Fissidens saulensis Pursell & Buck is described from central French Guiana. It is most closely related to F. subulatus Mitt. but differs in the broader leaves, smaller laminal cells, and larger stature.
4099025|Ophiocaryon barnebyanum from the Serra da Neblina (Venezuelan-Brazilian border) and O. neillii from southern Ecuador are described and illustrated, and their morphological relationships with allied species are discussed. Ophiocaryon barnebyanum is morphologically similar to O. duckei, but it differs by its larger leaves, leaflets, petioles, petiolules, and inflorescences, the higher number of secondary veins, and the ciliate sepals. Ophiocaryon neillii is a small tree related to O. klugii but differs by its smaller leaflets, petiolules and inflorescences, fewer secondary veins, lanceolate-acuminate sepals, and orbicular staminodes. An updated key to the species of Ophiocaryon is provided.
4099006|Adiantum diphyllum, a species endemic to the coastal forests of Bahia State, Brazil, is characterized and distinguished from other species of Adiantum with anastomosing veins, elongate sori, and venuloid idioblasts.
2666542|Phenetic investigations were undertaken to evaluate differences between the cloud forest endemic Viola domingensis of the Dominican Republic and the morphologically similar V. macloskeyi of continental North America. Cluster, principal components (PCA), and canonical variates analyses (CVA) of leaf characters and of ratios derived from them consistently separate V. macloskeyi subsp. macloskeyi of the Pacific states from V. domingensis and transcontinental V. macloskeyi subsp. pallens. However, all analyses portray the latter two as extensively intergradient extremes of a continuum, with V. domingensis plants tending to be smaller. Phenetic analyses of capsule and seed features, which are often divergent among other species of subsect. Stolonosae, show V. domingensis to be nested within a broader V. macloskeyi subsp. pallens. Similarly, floral morphology does not provide observable differences between the pair. Results support the synonymy of V. domingensis under V. macloskeyi subsp. pallens and reveal that it represents a disjunct outlier of an otherwise continental North American violet.
40793380|Zamia pyrophy Ha, a new species from Choc, Colombia, is described and illustrated. It is compared to Z. amazonum, Z. cunara, and Z.ipetiensis. It is distinguished by its bright orange and red emerging leaves with leaflets that progressively turn green from the apex to the base as they mature, petioles with branched prickles and with ferruginous pubescence when immature, villous strobilar axes, and adaxial microsporangia.
23254282|Most legume phylogenies have relied heavily on plastid gene datasets, with or without nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS data, but the sequences of nuclear genes and gene-spanning regions offer certain advantages. We tested the phylogenetic utility of five nuclear loci across the species-rich legume clade Hologalegina: PGDH, TRPT, HRIP, RNAR, and CNGC4 (CNGC4-like protein). Our objective was to determine whether any of these nuclear loci could be beneficial at resolving lower-level phylogenetic relationships in this clade, with a particular interest in finding markers that might work at the species level. While the phylogenetic utility of these nuclear loci is unknown outside of Hologalegina, we determined that two of the loci, PGDH and TRPT, are useful for phylogenetic analyses within Hologalegina, depending upon the desired scale of resolution.
2805775| Hesperozygis pusilla Irving, a rare and apparently endemic species from Galeana, Nuevo Len, is described. It is closely allied to H. ciliolata Epling. Both H. ciliolata and H. pusilla have chromosome numbers of 2n=36. 
41406785|Two new species of Erythroxylum from the Amotape-Huancabamba region are described and illustrated. Erythroxylum dillonii occurs in the arid zones of northern Peru, and Erythroxylum gentryi is known only from the Ecuadorian side of Cordillera del Condor. Their habitats and taxonomic relationships are discussed. Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Erythroxylum de la regin Amotape-Huancabamba. Erythroxylum dillonii es de las zonas secas en el norte de Per y Erythroxylum gentryi es del lado ecuatoriano de la Cordillera del Cndor. Se discuten sus relaciones taxonmicas y sus habitats.
3218446| Clibadium L. (Asteraceae, Heliantheae) is a genus of 29 species distributed throughout Latin America, from Mexico to Peru, and in the West Indies, with high numbers of species in Costa Rica, Colombia, and Ecuador. Clibadium includes shrubs and small trees; usually with loosely aggregated capitula; herbaceous phyllaries arranged in 1-5 series; receptacles usually paleaceous throughout; corollas of pistillate florets 2-4-lobed; corollas of the staminate florets 4-5lobed; purple to black anthers; and chromosome numbers all n = 16. Two sections of species previously recognized are here considered as subgenera (subg. Paleata and subg. Clibadium) containing two and four sections, respectively. Clibadium subg. Paleata contains five species distributed in sects. Eggersia (3 spp.) and Trixidium (2 spp.), and subg. Clibadium has 24 species distributed among sects. Clibadium (6 spp.), Glomerata (9 spp.), Grandifolia (5 spp.), and Oswalda (4 spp.). ///[spanish]Clibadium L. (Asteraceae, Heliantheae) es un gnero distribudo a travs de Amrica Latina, desde Mjico a Per, y en West Indies, con un gran nmero de especies en Costa Rica, Colombia, y Ecuador. Clibadium incluye arbustos y rboles pequeos; generalmente con captulos laxamente agregados; filarias herbceas, ordenadas en 1-5 series; receptculos generalmente palceos; corolas de las florets pistiladas con 2-4 lbulos; corolas de las florets estaminadas con 4-lbulos; anteras purpuras a negras; y nmeros cromosmicos todos n = 16. Dos grupos de especies previamente reconocidas son aqu considerados como subgneros (subg. Paleata y subg. Clibadium) que tienen dos y cuatro secciones, respectivamente. Clibadium subg. Paleata contiene cinco especies distribudas en sects. Eggersia (3 spp.) y Trixidium (2 spp.), y subg. Clibadium incluye 24 especies distribudas entre las sects. Clibadium (6 spp.) Glomerata (9 spp.), Grandifolia (5 spp.), y Oswalda (4 spp.). 
30219378|Doryopteris surinamensis, a new species endemic to Suriname, is described and illustrated. In addition to the description of the new species, D. surinamensis, its relationships to D. pentagona and D. raddiana are discussed.
4099024| A new species, Alstroemeria paraensis, from Par, Brazil, is described and illustrated. This species is characterized by its robust floral stem, reduced leaves, congested inflorescence, and maculated inner and outer tepals. /// Uma nova espcie de Alstroemeria, A. paraensis do estado do Par, caracterizada pelo ramo reprodutivo robusto, folhas reduzidas, inflorescncia congesta e tpalas maculadas,  aqui descrita e ilustrada. 
2666620|Pentaplaris davidsmithii from Peru and Bolivia and P. huaoranica from Ecuador are described and compared to the only other species previously known in the genus, P. doroteae from Costa Rica. Morphological and palynological characters support the inclusion of Pentaplaris in core Malvales while suggesting that the original assumption that the genus belonged in Tiliaceae-Brownlowieae cannot be maintained. Pentaplaris, which comprises three isolated and evidently rare species, probably belongs to the malvoid-bombacoid alliance, but its position within this clade remains unresolved.
2806795|In order effectively to list and comment on the results of cytological investigations in Aster in a companion paper, a scheme of infrageneric classification is presented which utilizes the basic chromosome number as a pivotal diagnostic character. Reasons are stated as to why, with the exception of Unamia Greene which is transferred to Solidago, and the commonly recognized genera Leucelence Greene which is transferred to Solidago, and the commonly recognized genera Leucelene Greene, Machaeranthera Nees and Xylorhiza Nutt., none of the segregate genera previously proposed or recorded in the literature is upheld. Instead, these taxa are being given subgeneric or sectional rank. Two additonal subgenera are established to accommodate the species groups traditionally placedin "Aster proper," which are characterized by having basic chromosome numbers ofx=5 and x=8, respectively. Altogether ten subgenera of the genus Aster, five of them subdivided futher into a total of 24 sections, are recognized as having representative species in the New World. All basionyms and type species are listed, and a number of new combinations and status changes are validated in accordance with the International Rules of Botanical Nomenclature. Where known (from literature and personal research), chromosome numbers are recorded for the species.
2807545| Jamesia (Hydrangeaceae) is endemic to western North America from the southern Rocky Mountains in souhteastern Wyoming and Colorado west across the Great Basin to the southern Sierra Nevada and south through New Mexico and southeastern Arizona to Chihuahua and Nuevo Len. Its distinctiveness and Oligocene fossil record suggest that it is an old genus. The genus comprises five geographically distinct taxa that can be grouped into two species. One of these, Jamesia americana, is further divided into four varieties, the second of which is new, and the fourth of which assumes a name older than that in current use: J. americana var. americana, var. zionis, var. macrocalyx, and var. rosea. The second species, J. tetrapetala, is new. 
3218445| Agave rzedowskiana is described and illustrated from the states of Sinaloa and Jalisco, Mexico. This species is a member of subgenus Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker "group Striatae" of Baker. It is compared with A. petrophila Garca-Mend. & E. Martnez and A. dasylirioides Jacobi & Bouch. ///[Spanish]Se describe e ilustra Agave rzedowskiana de los estados de Sinaloa y Jalisco, Mxico. La especie pertenece al subgnero Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker "Grupo Striatae" de Baker. Se le compara con A. petrophila Garca-Mend. & E. Martnez y A. dasylirioides Jacobi & Bouch. 
2807646|The new species, Euphorbia aaron-rossii, from along the Colorado River within the inner gorge of Marble Canyon and Grand Canyon, Coconino Co., Arizona, is described, mapped, and illustrated. Scanning electron micrographs of the seed coat are included. It clearly belongs to subgenus Agaloma section Tithymalopsis, where it is most closely related to E. wrightii.
2806210|A survey of the leaves of 116 species of the neotropical genus Cavendishia showed that the genus is characterized by the presence of flavone C-glycosides. Other constituents include flavones (luteolin, chrysoeriol, tricin), flavonols (quercetin, kaempferol and myricetin), dihydroflavonols, proanthocyandidins, and ellagic and salicylic acids. The stilbene, resveratrol, has been identified in six species; this is only the second report of stilbenoids in the family. The identity of a natural hybrid C. endresii x C. quiereme has been confirmed by detecting in its leaves characterisic phenolics of both parental species.
3218359|Herbertia crosae (Iridaceae) is described from the stony grasslands of northwestern Uruguay. The new species resembles Herbertia lahue but can be easily distinguished by the narrower leaves, slender habit, the smaller pale lilac flowers, the presence of yellow spots at the base of the tepals, the red, adpressed hairs along the filament column, the presence of filaments free at the apex, the channeled style arm, the recurved secondary divisions of the style arm, and the smaller fruits. A key to the species of the genus is provided in which five species are now recognized.
2805451|A revision is presented for ten closely related species of western North America. The assemblage approximates the sections Bolanderiani Greenman and Lobati Rydb. Two new infraspecific combinations are made: Senecio bolanderi Gray var. harfordii (Greenman) T. M. Barkley, and S. eurycephalus Torr. & Gray ex Gray var. lewisrosei (J. T. Howell) T. M. Barkley.
4098952|This study explores methods to use information gathered from genomics technology to understand evolutionary relationships in the hyperdiverse legume group Neo-Astragalus. These species inhabit deserts and mountains of North and South America, and even though the monophyly of the group is well established, relationships within it are still poorly understood. Plastid genes, commonly used to infer phylogenies in plants, are usually not useful for closely related taxa because of low levels of genetic variation. The Medicago truncatula genome project provided a suite of candidate nuclear loci with high levels of variation that might prove suitable for low-level phylogenetics. This paper reports the development of methods for screening a large number of these nuclear loci, and detailed analysis of four of them. Four different patterns of phylogenetic diversification occur in the loci sampled from these genomes of Astragalus species. One locus (CNGC4) was single copy and could be directly used in phylogenetic analyses. Two loci (ARG10 and FENR) showed patterns strongly suggestive of duplication events in some taxa, and one locus (tRALS) has apparently undergone a cryptic duplication, making it very difficult to diagnose. Potential methods for using the information provided by these loci are discussed.
2806174|A history of the herbarium of the cocoa research center, located in the cocoa-producing region of southern Bahia, Brazil, is provided. The history includes geographic references to important collecting localities, description of the vegetation types from which collections have been made, an annotated list of collectors who have worked in the regio since 1965, and a summary of the activities of the herbarium. Maps of collecting localities and vegetation types of the region are also included.
2666565|The Euterpeinae contains six neotropical genera. There has been continual disagreement on generic and subgeneric boundaries in the subtribe. Euterpe and Prestoea, and Jessenia and Oenocarpus, have been repeatedly united and eparated. A phylogenetic analysis based on 54 morphological and anatomical characters gave one tree of 127 steps. Euterpe is separate from Prestoea, but Jessenia and Oenocarpus are best treated as one genus. Subgeneric relationships of Euterpe and Oenocarpus are also analyzed and discussed.
2806555|Francis Duncan Kelsey amassed one of the important early herbaria of Montana plants from 1885 to 1893. His Montana collections contain over 1200 specimens of algae, bryophytes, ferns, angiosperms, and fungi and include at least 41 that serve as types. Originally donated to the Oberlin College Herbarium (OC), the Montana collections, records, and later correspondence of Kelsey are now housed at the Miami University Herbarium (MU). The mycological collections of Kelsey are numbered, dated, and include site information; his other collections are unnumbered and often lack precise dates and/or localities. Kelsey's Montana fieldwork itineraries and sources of exchange are presented. All valid and legitimate names based on Kelsey's Montana collections are listed with pertinent information from his collection notebooks.
2806093|Type specimens of Hydastylus borealis, H. brachypus, Olsynium inflatum, Sysyrinchium inalatum, and S. sarmentosum have been located and are discussed; lectotypes are selected.
2807375|A new species of Compositae, Calea dalyi (of section Meyeria), from eastern Bolivia is described and illustrated. Its closest congener is C. purpurea from westernmost Bahia, Brazil. A key to the members of the C. teucriifolia complex is provided.
2807267|Two new monotypic genera are proposed: Karnataka, based upon Schultzia? benthamii C. B. Clarke (=K. benthamii) from southern Peninsular India and Kedarnatha, based on K. sanctuarii, recently obtained from the Himalaya. Neither genus appears to be closely related to other apioid genera of our area.
2666503|Cymopterus constancei is described as new from mostly western portions of Wyoming, Colorado, and New Mexico and from eastern Utah and Arizona. It has been confused with C. bulbosus A. Nelson but differs in several features of its bractlets, phenology, and habitat. The novelty is among the earliest of the native flora to bloom and is quite uniform morphologically. The number of collections encountered exceeds 200, a fourfold increase in the past 22 years.
2805476|In the Apocynaceae the new combination Alstonia pacifica (Seem.) A. C. Sm. is required. In the Asclepiadaceae the genus Gymnema R. Br. is found not to occur in Fiji; for the two Fijian species previously referred to it the new combinations Leichardtia stenophylla (A. Gray) A.C. Sm. and Tylophora subnuda (A. Gray) A. C. Sm. are proposed. The species of Tylophora occurring in the Fijian Region are reviewed adn a new Fijian species, T. venulosa, is described.
3218394| Poaceae in the Robinson Crusoe (=Juan Fernndez) Islands number 53 species in 32 genera, of which 9% of the species are endemic, 9% indigenous, and 81% adventitious. The endemic taxa (and their conservation status) are: Agrostis masafuerana (rare), Chusquea fernandeziana (not endangered), Megalachne berteroana (not endangered), M. masafuerana (not endangered), and Podophorus bromoides (extinct). Megalachne and Podophorus are endemic genera. Comparisons with Poaceae in the Bonin and Volcano Islands, Canary Islands, Galpagos Islands, and Hawaiian Islands show different levels of endemism: number of endemic taxa, respectively, 5, 10, 12, 40; percent specific endemism, 8, 6, 21, 19. No endemic genera occur. Anthoxanthum odoratum, Avena barbata and Hordeum murinum are noxious weeds in the Robinson Crusoe Islands. Many adventives are shared among floras of the archipelagos, with the highest ties of Robinson Crusoe being to the Canaries (53% of total Poaceae known in Juan Fernndez) and the Hawaiian Islands (47%). Low levels of adventives occur within the Bonin (5%) and Galpagos (7%) Islands. In contrast, there are many endemic genera of Asteraceae in these same archipelagos: Bonin and Volcano Islands (1), Canary Islands (8), Galpagos Islands (5), and Hawaiian Islands (6); percent of specific endemism is also higher (20, 53, 54 and 56, respectively). Hypotheses for greater levels of endemics among oceanic island Asteraceae include more efficient dispersal mechanisms by wind and birds, animal pollination systems that result in greater degrees of geographic populational genetic isolation, and a vascular cambium that offers enhanced growth-form evolutionary opportunities. 
2806041|Chrysothamnus eremobius, endemic to mountains of southern Nevada, is formally described and illustrated. Morphological and anatomical comparisons are made to related taxa. The new species has many features like Petradoria discoidea (=C. gramineus). Although it bears some similarity to C. depressus and C. vaseyi of section Pulchelli, C. eremobius is better placed in section Chrysothamnus near C. viscidiflorus.
40648247|Carapa akuri, a new species endemic to central Guyana, is described and illustrated. It is compared to the two other species (C. guianensis and C. surinamensis) occurring in the Guianas.
2807659|Tillandsia subg. Pseudalcantarea (Bromeliaceae) includes four species as currently delimited. The phylogenetic relationships of the species in this group are investigated by a cladistic analysis using 16 morphological characters, with Vriesea subg. Alcantarea employed as the outgroup. Tillandsia subg. Pseudalcantarea is found to be paraplyletic. Tillandsia grandis and T. paniculata are transferred to Tillandsia subg. Tillandsia because they are hypothesized to share a more recent common ancestor with T. utriculata, the type of the genus, than they do with the other two species placed in subg. Pseudalcantarea, i.e., T. baliophylla and T. viridiflora. These latter two species possibly constitute a basal clade within Tillandsia and are provisionally retained within subg. Pseudalcantarea.
2806576|The status of Aesculus pavia var. flavescens, a set of yellow-flowered populations endemic to the Edwards Plateau of central Texas, was evaluated on the basis of comparative morphology, geography, flowering phenology, and pollination ecology. Plants of typical A. pavia have red, tubular flowers with exserted stamens and are effectively pollinated by ruby-throated hummingbirds. Plants of var. flavescens have yellow, campanulate flowers with included stamens that can be pollinated effectively by large bees. These ethological reproductive isolating mechanisms are further augmented by a difference in flowering time between the two sets of populations and by geographical restriction of the yellow-flowered plants to localities on the Edwards Plateau. The yellow and red-flowered plants constitute two morphologically distinct groups, despite evidence of limited introgression in counties along the Balcones Escarpment. A yellow-flowered plant discovered in coastal east Texas may indicate the mechanism by which var. flavescens originated, but this plant is much more closely comparable to typical red-flowered var. pavia than to the yellow-flowered plants on the Edwards Plateau. An evolutionary history of section Pavia of Aesculus is presented, and it is concluded that the yellow-flowered plants of central Texas are best regarded as a taxonomic variety.
4098993| The Amphiatlantic genus Machaerium consists of shrubs, trees, and lianas occurring from sea level to 500-900 m (rarely 1700m). The genus is known from Mexico southward to Brazil and Argentina, with one species (M. isadelphum) extending to Trinidad and Tobago, and another species (M. lunatum) to the west coast of Africa. Of the estimated 130 Machaerium species, eleven species and three varieties are known from Ecuador. Four of these thirteen taxa are widely distributed in Central and South America. The remaining nine taxa are distributed from Venezuela to Brazil, with one species, M. quinatum, reaching Argentina. Three species and three varieties are here presented as new records for Ecuador. General morphology, taxonomic treatments with keys to species, descriptions, illustrations, and maps of all Ecuadorian species are provided. /// El gnero amfiatlntico Machaerium (Papilionoideae-Dalbergieae) consiste de lianas, arbustos o rboles en tierras bajas desde el nivel del mar hasta los 500-900 m (rara vez 1700 m). El gnero est distribuido desde Mxico hasta Brasil y Argentina, con una especie, M. isadelphum que crece en las islas de Trinidad y Tobago, y otra en la costa oeste de frica (M. lunatum). De las estimadas 130 especies, once especies y tres variedades se encuentran en Ecuador. Cuatro de estas trece taxa tienen una amplia distribucin, desde Meso-Amrica hasta Sur Amrica, mientras que las nueve restantes estn distribuidas desde Venezuela hasta Brasil con una especie que llega hasta Argentina, M. quinatum. De las especies y variedades ecuatorianas, tres especies y tres variedades se consideran nuevos registros para el pas. Se discute la morfologa general, adems se incluye el tratamiento taxonmico con claves, descripciones, ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin de todas las especies del Ecuador. 
2806294|Pedicularis contorta var. rubicunda, endemic to north-central Idaho and western Montana, is formally described and illustrated. Morphological and cytological comparisons are made with the two previously described varieties of P. contorta. Specimens appearing morphologically intermediate between var. contorta and var. rubicunda are also examined.
40648100|Leccinum viscosum is described, illustrated, and compared with similar taxa. Morphological characters indicate that this taxon represents a new species.
2805704|Chromosome numbers of 19 species of Thelypteris from Florida, California, Mexico, and Costa Rica are reported. First counts are given for two species belonging to sect. Goniopteris (x=36), one species of sect. Leptogramma (x=36) and seven species of the Opposita group (x=29). The last named group is ramarkable for the relatively low number of diploid taxa so far known. The base numbers 36, 35, 34, 32, 31, 30, 29, and 27 are known in the Thelypteridaceae, with 36 being the most common number throughout the tropics, and perhaps the ancestral base number. The temperate American species of Thelypteris are probably more closely allied to Parathelypteris H. Ito, from Asia, than to the Neotropical species of the Opposita group.
40980941|En este trabajo se describe e ilustra Coccocarpia tomentosa, coleccionada en la provincia de Misiones,Argentina. Se incluyen comentarios sobre otras cinco especies Sudamericanas del gnero, registradas para Argentina, Paraguay y Brasil. Para C. pellita se ampla el rea de distribucin conocida ya que se registra por primera vez para Argentina. In this paper Coccocarpia tomentosa, from Misiones, Argentina, is described and illustrated. Comments on five related species also known from Paraguay and Brazil are included. The known distribution of pellita is extended and it is cited for the first time from Argentina.
3218401|The pericarp structure of representative species of the four genera of the subtribe Linospadicinae is described and compared. Tissues found in the pericarp of this group are similar to those found in other subtribes of the Areceae, with no characters unique to the subtribe and nothing to suggest its closest affinities. The four genera, as well as each species examined, do show distinctive pericarp features, however. Laccospadix and Linospadix are similar, both with a single series of fibrous bundles and an outer series of prominent raphide-bearing cells dominating the pericarp. In both Howea and Calyptrocalyx, a complex exocarp forms from a series of fibrous bundles and brachysclereids, but each genus has other distinctive characters. Howea has vascular bundles in the exocarp zone, an outer series of raphide-bearing cells, and a conspicuously thickened locular epidermis. Based on a limited sample of four species, raphide-bearing cells appear to be always interior to the exocarp in Calyptrocalyx, and the locular epidermis is thin.
4098954|Nucleotide sequences of the plastid matK gene and nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer region were sampled from Astragalus L. (Fabaceae), and its closest relatives within tribe Galegeae, to infer phylogenetic relationships and estimate ages of diversification. Consistent with previous studies that emphasized sampling for nrDNA ITS primarily within either New World or Old World species groups, Astragalus, with the exception of a few morphologically distinct species, is strongly supported as monophyletic based on maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses of matK sequences as well as a combined sequence dataset. The matK data provides better resolution and stronger clade support for relationships among Astragalus and traditionally related genera than nrDNA ITS. Astragalus sensu stricto plus the genus Oxytropis are strongly supported as sister to a clade composed of strictly Old World (African, Australasian) genera such as Colutea, Sutherlandia, Lessertia, Swainsona, and Carmichaelia, plus several morphologically distinct segregates of Eurasian Astragalus. Ages of these clades and rates of nucleotide substitution estimated from a fossil-constrained, rate-smoothed, Bayesian analysis of matK sequences sampled from Hologalegina indicate Astragalus diverged from its sister group, Oxytropis, 12-16 Ma, with divergence of Neo-Astragalus beginning ca. 4.4 Ma. Estimates of absolute rates of nucleotide substitution for Astragalus and sister groups, which range from 8.9 to
2805614|New or confirmatory chrosome counts for 16 taxa of Hypericum in Britain, one of northwest Africa, and 24 of North and Central America are reported. First records for any member of the genus Visma (n = 10) are also included. The counts are discussed with respect to those previously reported for Hypericum and related genera. Some of this chromosamal information is incorporated in a diagram showing suggested evolutionary trends within Hypericum. There appears to be a descending series of basic numbers (x = 12, 10, 9, 8, 7), of which all but the last have been recorded in polyploid, as well as diploid, form. Observations of chromosome morphology suggest that Hypericum is cytologically relatively unspecialized. Studies of chromosome morphology, therefore, are not likely to yield much information about the evolutionary history of the genus. It is suggested that the basic number for Allanblackia and Pentadesma is 7 or 14, whereas in Calophyllum and Mesua it is probably 8 or 16. Known gametic chromosome numbers in Mammea (n = 16, 18) and Garcinia (n = 24, ca. 27, ca. 38, ca. 40, and 48) do not indicate an obvious basic number for these genera, although x = 8, 9, and 16 might be involved. Ring-formation of the Oenothera-type, possibly indicative of structural hybridity, is reported for the first time in Hypericum mitchellianum Rydb., a close relative of Hypericum punctatum Lam., which was previously shown to possess this anomalous chromosome condition.
2805984|Schaueria calycobractea, a new species of Acanthaceae form Mexico and a genus new to the Mexican flora is described. Pollen morphology of the new species is discussed with reference to generic and tribla concepts in the family.
3218344|Perforation plates and other vessel details as studied with scanning electron microscopy (SEM) have been reported for four species of Cornaceae (s.l.): similar features are shown by the four, suggesting that a more extensive sampling of the family might reveal similar phenomena. Perforation plates contain pit membrane remnants in the form of threads or, less commonly, laminar portions perforated by pores. When least well-represented, the pit membrane remnants are restricted to lateral ends of perforations and to the perforations transitional to lateral wall pitting. Perforations are all clearly bordered. Helical thickenings that do not form a continuous gyre are reported for the vessel walls of Aucuba. The presence of pit membrane remnants in vessel elements of Cornaceae correlates with the mesic habitats occupied by species in this family. The presence and type of pit membrane remnants reported by us in the three genera is very similar, although pit membrane remnants are doubtless a symplesiomorphy and thus not an indicator of relationships. The presence of pit membrane remnants in the three genera, however, does attest to the primitiveness of wood and other features of Cornaceae s.l.
2806973|Mimosa invisa c. Martius (1837) is not, as long supposed, a superfluous duplication of M. invisa C. Martius ex Colla (1834), but a heterotypic posterior homonym and therefore illegitimate. Mimosa invisa C. Martius ex Colla is the earliest valid name for M. rhodostachya (Benth.) Benth. (1875). The correct name for M. invisa C. Martius is M. diplotricha C. Wright ex Sauvalle (1868).
23254251|Comocladia mayana, a new species of Anacardiaceae, is described, mapped and illustrated. The species is endemic to western Belize and adjacent Guatemala and is restricted to semi-deciduous moist forest on karstic limestone formations. It differs from all other Comocladia species by the combination of entire to subentire, acuminate leaflets and tetramerous staminate flowers. Comocladia mayana, una especie nueva de Anacardiaceae, se describe, mapea e ilustra. La especie es endmica al oeste de Belice y Guatemala y se limita a bosque hmedo semi-deciduo sobre formaciones de piedra caliza crstica. Se diferencia de otras especies de Comocladia por la combinacin de foliolos enteros a subenteros y, acuminados, y flores estaminadas tetrmeras.
2805734|Neutron activation analysis in pollination ecology was examined with particular regard to external application of indicator elements. Movement of elements between flowers can be detected after external application either to the anthers or, in members of the Asteraceae, to the entire head. This technique is potentially useful in studying pollen flow within and between populations and in detecting flower constancy of pollinators. This technique is advantageous when compared with the use of radioactive tracers because potential health and environmental hazards inherent in the field use of unstable isotopes are eliminated.
2807609|The name Encyclia hodgeana (A. D. Hawkes) Beckner has been incorrectly applied to E. altissima Schlechter in the Bahamas.
2806333|Type specimens of new taxa based on plants collected by O. Kuntze and General Komaroff in eastern Russia and Turkey that are known to be at the New York Botanical Garden (NY) are enumerated.
2806326|Satureja maderensis of sect. Gardoquia from the pine-fir forests of the Sierra de la Madera in central Coahuila is described.
2806775|The pedately divided Elaphoglossum cardenassi and the two small genera, Peltapteris and Microstaphyla, are found to have close relatives among the entire-bladed species of Elaphoglossum, supporting the view that all the dissected forms should be considered as species of Elaphoglossum. Necessary nomenclatural changes are made.
2805738|Several interpretations concerning the relationships of the Psilotaceae are discussed. The conclusion that the Psilotaceae are filicalean ferns is defended. New evidence which has appeared since earlier papers on the subject confirms this basic conclusion.
23254280|La especie nueva Cardiospermum cristobaliae (Sapindaceae, Paullinieae), de la regin norte del estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil, es descrita, ilustrada y comparada con la especie ms prxima, C. urvilleoides. Adicionalmente se describen caracteres de epidermis foliar y de polen. Se reporta el nmero cromosmico somtico 2n =24. La especie nueva pertenece a la seccin Cardiospermum, se presenta un cuadro comparativo con la especie afin y una clave de las especies sudamericanas de esta seccin. A new species, Cardiospermum cristobaliae (Sapindaceae, Paullinieae), from northern Minas Gerais, Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared to its putative closest relative, C. urvilleoides. The new species belongs to section Cardiospermum. Also, characters of the foliar epidermis and pollen grains are described. The somatic chromosome number 2n =24 is reported. A key to the South American species of the section is provided.
2807346|Mecranium revolutum is described from the Massif de la Hotte of Haiti and compared with three similar species that are also endemic to this interesting region. The lower elevation (1000-1600 m) forests of Parc National Pic Macaya are discussed briefly.
2806648|Nectar glands are described for the first time on the developing fruits of Crescentia cujete L. and their presence noted on fruits in 15 other genera of the Bignoniaceae. The nectaries are tiny, nonvascularized, patelliform structures of epidermal origin. They attract ants which are postulated to function in an antiherbivore role.
2806264|One new species of Chusquea and three of Swallenochloa are described. Morphological characters, especially of the culm leaves and branching, are pointed out as useful in distiguishing the two genra. A key to the 7 recognized species of Swallenochloa is given, and a discussion of its habitat, the paramo. Comment is made upon the recent evolution of the paramo habitat and therefore of the bamboo adapted to it, and reasons offered for the apparent active speciation which characterizes this bamboo genus.
3218371| Morphological, isozyme, and cytological analyses of the small, pale-scaled polystichums from oak dominated montane rain forests in Costa Rica and Mexico reveal the presence of a separable undescribed species endemic to the Cordillera de Talamanca of Costa Rica. The new taxon, Polystichum lilianae, is an allotetraploid hypothesized to have the sympatric P. turrialbae as one diploid progenitor based on isozyme characters. The isozyme and morphometric data also support the inclusion of P. smithii, described from southern Mexico, in P. turrialbae, described from Costa Rica. The name Polystichum fournieri, formerly used for all of these plants, applies to species endemic to Oaxaca and Chiapas, Mexico. It is not a progenitor of P. lilianae. ///[Spanish]Anlisis de morfologa, isozimas y cromosomas de poblaciones de Polystichum de la selvas montaosas lluviosas de Costa Rica y Mxico indican que existe una nueva especie endmica en la Cordillera de Talamanca de Costa Rica. La especie nueva, Polystichum lilianae, es allotetraploide y parece tener la especie simptrica P. turrialbae como una de sus progenitores diploides. Adems, datos morfolgicos y de isozimas sugieren que P. turrialbae incluye como sinonimo P. smithii del sur de Mxico. Polystichum fournieri, nombre anteriormente usado para todas estas plantas, es endmica a Oaxaca y Chiapas, Mxico, y no es un progenitor de P. lilianae. 
4099010| Capparis coimbrana, a tree of the Bolivian and adjoining Brazilian subtropical to warm-temperate seasonal dry forests and savannas, is segregated from C. petiolaris of the Pacific slope of Ecuador and northern Peru by its subcylindrical fruits (vs. spherical), white pulp (vs. yellow), sepals 3-5 mm (vs. 1-3 mm), leaves with 13-24 (vs. 8-15) lateral veins per side, and by 1000 km of geographic isolation. The new species has edible fruits, but is not domesticated. The specific epithet celebrates Germn Coimbra S., eminent Bolivian ethnobotanist. /// Capparis coimbra es un rbol del bosque seco y sabanas subtropicales y clidas de Bolivia y la parte adyacente de Brasil, segregada de Capparis petiolaris, que se encuentra distribuida en la regin del Pacfico de Ecuador y norte de Per, por sus frutos subcilndricos (vs. esfricos), pulpa blanca (vs. amarilla), spalos 3-5 mm (vs. 1-3 mm), hojas con 13-24 (vs. 8-15) pares de venas laterales, y aislada geogrficamente 1000 km. Esta nueva especie posee frutos comestibles, pero no est domesticada. Su epteto especfico honra a Germn Coimbra S., eminente etnobotnico boliviano. 
2806212|Astragalus (sect. Argophylli subsect. Pseudargophylli) Holmgreniorum, from the Virgin valley along the Utah-Arizona border, and A. (sect. Reventi-Arrecti subsect. Orcuttiani) ackermanii, from S Nevada, are described, figured and discussed.
2806754|Cassia aurantia Benth. sensu auct, is not the species to which Bentham referred, but is a undescribed entity herein named Senna barnebyana.
2807328| Four new species of Loranthaceae, Cladocolea apiculata, C. coriacea, Maracanthus pusillus, and Psittacanthus gigas, and one of Viscaceae, Dendrophthora diffusa, are described. The status of Dendrophthora willtreleasei Stehl, Loranthus anomalus M. E. Jones, and Psittacanthus mexicanus (Presl ex Schult. f.) Blume is clarified. Descriptions and illustrations are provided for the seedlings of Notanthera and Ixocactus. The recently described Arceuthobium cubense Leiva & Bisse is referred to Dendrophthora cupressoides (Macf.) Eichler. 
2806444|In 1926 George Tate participated in collecting expedition to the Cordillera Real of Bolivia and Peru under the auspices of H. S. Ladew and The American Museum of Natural History. Although the emphasis of the expedition was zoological, Tate managed to collect 1215 plant numbers from which over 50 new species were later described, primarily by H. H. Rusby. These specimens, including most types, were deposited at The New York Botanical Garden. Tate retained 632 duplicate sheets at the Museum to form the core of the "Ecological Herbarium of Dept. of Mammals." The 24 collecting stations worked by Tate in Bolivia are described and mapped from data obtained from a transcribed copy of Tate's field notes deposited in the archives of The New York Botanical Garden.
30219398|Four new species of the Didymopanax group of Neotropical Schefflera (Araliaceae) from the Brazilian Amazon are here described and illustrated. Two of these are mainly known from the surroundings of Manaus, Amazonas state (Schefflera ciliatifolia and Schefflera umbrosa). The first is distinguished by its ciliate leaflets, while the second is characterized by leaflets varying in shape from trilobed to entire. Schefflera plurifolia is known only from southern Amazonian forests, and is remarkable in its pinnately-compound leaflets. Schefflera dichotoma, only known from the type collected on "campinarana" forests from Upper Rio Negro, at the municipality of So Gabriel da Cachoeira (Amazonas), is characterized by dichotomously branching inflorescences. Comments on the geographic distribution and ecology of the new species are provided, as well as an identification key to the species of the Didymopanax group found in Brazilian Amazonian rainforests and savannas. /// Quatro espcies novas do grupo Didymopanax de Schefflera (Araliaceae) da Amaznia brasileira so aqui descritas e ilustradas. Duas destas so conhecidas principalmente dos arredores de Manaus, Amazonas (Schefflera ciliatifolia and Schefflera umbrosa). A primeira  distinta por possuir fololos com lmina ciliada, enquanto na segunda os fololos tm lmina variando de inteira a trilobada. Schefflera plurifolia  conhecida apenas de florestas do Sul da Amaznia, sendo notvel nesta a presena de fololos compostos pinados. Schefflera dichotoma  conhecida apenas do material-tipo, coletado em florestas de "campinarana" do alto Rio Negro, em So Gabriel da Cachoeira (Amazonas), sendo caracterizada pelas inflorescncias com ramificao dicotmica. Ilustraes e comentrios acerca da distribuio geogrfica e ecologia das espcies novas so fomrnecidos, assim como uma chave de identificao das espcies do grupo Didymopanax encontradas em florestas e savanas da Amaznia brasileira.
2805873|Morphological variation within and between the taxa of the Altissimae (Vernonia altissima, V. ovalifolia, and V. flaccidifolia) and Giganteae (V. gigantea) was investigated. The data for these studies were obtained from population samples, herbarium specimens, adn greenhouse-grown transplants. The taxa were hybridized in all possible combinations, and $F_2$ progeny were produced from V. altissima X V. ovalifolia $F_1$'s. Fertility in the hybrids was estimated by examination of chromosome pairing at meiosis and by pollen stainability. It is concluded that Vernonia altissima should be regarded as a synonym of V. gigantea and that V. ovalifolia should be reduced to subspecific rank as V. gigantea ssp. ovalifolia. The evolution of the two subspecies of V. gigantea is discussed. Vernonia flaccidifolia is maintained at the species level.
2806406|A chromosome number of n = 12 is reported for the three monotypic genera of subtribe Castillejinae: Clevelandia beldingii, Gentrya racemosa, and Ophiocephalus angustifolius. Chromosome numbers of Orthocarpus correspond mostly with current infrageneric classification. Subgenus Triphysaria has n = 11. Orthocarpus sections Castillejoides and Cordylanthoides, which are closely related to Castilleja (x = 12) and the three monotypic genera above, have n = 12 with aneuploid reductions to n = 10 in O. linearilobus and n = 11 in O. lacerus (a species also with n = 12). Tetraploids are found in two species, O. brevistylus (n = 24) and O. hispidus (n = 12, 24) The polyploid O. laciniatus (n = 36, 48) of Peru is postulated to be of hybrid origin between a species of Castilleja and Orthocarpus attenuatus. Subgenus Orthocarpus section Orthocarpus, which has n = 14 in all species except O. bracteosus (n = 15), stands apart both morphologically and in chromosome number from the remainder of the genus.
3218519| A stratified-random sampling method was used to estimate the number of pteridophyte specimens in six of the largest herbaria in the United States (F, GH/A/NEBC, MO, NY, UC, US). The point estimate of the collection size and the 95% confidence intervals for each herbarium were found to be as follows: US 251,000 (20,000); NY 201,000 (20,000); MO 160,000 (15,000); GH/A/NEBC 124,000 (12,000); UC 119,000 (9,000); F 97,000 (10,000). It is hoped that these numbers will help assess the growth of these collections in the future. 
2805881|Apatzingania, described here as new, is represented by one species: A. arachoidea Dieterle. The position of the genus in the family is discussed, particularly its relationship to Brandegea, Vaseyanthus, and Echinopepon.
2807350|A study of the floral anatomy and pollen morphology of both species of the endemic New Caledonian genus Oncotheca was undertaken to provide a more thorough and accurate generic description and to make additional comparisons of the two species. In general, flowers of the species are histologically similar, although O. macrocarpa has a strong tendency to possess more numerous and widely distributed tanniferous cells and druses. Oncotheca macrocarpa also differs from O. balansae in possessing the important feature of unfused ventral carpellary bundles. The unspecialized, 3-colporate pollen type of the two species is very similar in size and surface pattern, has clearly delineated wall layers, and is in harmony with the recent consensus opinion that Oncotheca is most closely related to the Theaceae and allies, although the genus is probably best interpreted as an isolated taxon linking the orders Theales, Ericales, and Celastrales.
2666585|Melanopsidium is a poorly known monospecific genus, represented by dioecious shrubs endemic to Brazilian restingas. Its systematic relationships have been considered ambiguous by some authors, but recent phylogenetic studies strongly support its position in the tribe Gardenieae, and more precisely within the "Alibertia-group." Its complex taxonomic history, full description, lectotypification, synonymy, and biogeographic observations are presented; original plates here selected as lectotypes are reproduced; staminate and pistillate flowers are illustrated; and a distribution map is included.
2666496|In the course of a monographic revision of Begonia sect. Sphenanthera, a number of species were found to exhibit characteristics that place them within other sections. These species are here reassigned to their appropriate sections. The following three species are transferred to Begonia sect. Petermannia: B. axillipara Ridl, B. brachyptera Merr. & L. M. Perry, and B. pseudolateralis Warb. Begonia brachyptera is treated here as a synonym of B. brachybotrys Merr. & L. M. Perry, a species that had previously been assigned to sect. Petermannia. Begonia dux C. B. Clarke, a species tentatively assigned by its author to Begonia sect. Casparya (=Sphenanthera), is transferred to sect. Platycentrum. The species is newly reported from India. Platycentrum teysmannianum Miq. is transferred to Begonia sect. Platycentrum. Descriptions are provided for the poorly known species B. axillipara, B. brachybotrys, B. dux, and B. teysmanniana; and a diagnosis is provided for the better-known species B. pseudolateralis.
30218784|A new species of Brachistus is described from the region of Chiriqu in Panama. Brachistus knappiae morphologically resembles Brachistus stramoniifolius, and has been confused with it in the past. The diagnostic features of Brachistus knappiae are discussed, and the plant is illustrated. /// Se describe una especie nueva de la regin de Chiriqu en Panam. Brachistus knappiae es morfolgicamente parecida a B. stramoniifolius, lo cual provocaba que fuera errneamente identificada como esta especie en el pasado. Se discuten los caracteres diagnsticos de Brachistus knappiae y la planta es ilustrada.
2806702|A small set of plant specimens from the original Kuntze herbarium have been returned to the New York Botanical Garden (NY) by the Charleston Museum (CHARL).
2806285|Tapura haitiensis was described in 1926 from sterile material from the Massif de la Hotte, Haiti. It was recollected in 1983 from the same area and its flowers and young fruit are described here for the first time together with habitat details. It is compared with three related species, T. orbicularis, T. panamensis, and T. cubensis.
2806929|Paullinia lachnocarpa has been known only from flowering and immature fruiting material collected in Ecuador. A recent collection with mature fruit shows that this biternate-leaved plant with multi-stelar stems and schizocarpic(indehiscent) fruit is best placed in its own genus, Chimborazoa. The only known species is Chimborazoa lachnocarpa, which appears to be endemic to mountainous areas (1200-2000 m) in the provinces Chimborazo and Cotopaxi, Ecuador. The pollen morphology of Chimborazoa differs from that of Paullinia. The lectotypification of P. lachnocarpa is discussed, the new genus is described and illustrated, and a key to the genera of the Paullinieae is provided.
2806115|Recchia simplicifolia, a new species from southern Veracruz, southern Tabasco and northern Chiapas, represents the first non-microphyllous simple leaved New World species of Simaroubaceae. It differs from the other two species of Recchia in its simple leaves, cauliflory, and rain forest habitat. Its discovery may necessitate a reevaluation of the relationships of Surianaceae and Simaroubaceae. Although its distribution corresponds to a high-precipitation are which demonstrates strong affinities to the wet Central American flora and may have served as a refuge area for rain forest species during parts of the Pleistocene, its relationships are strictly with Mexican species of the dry Pacific slope, supporting the hypothesis of exchange between the wet and dry Mexican floras during the climatic cycles of the Pleistocene.
2805707|Geographic variation in Mouriri myrtilloides (Swartz) Poiret is analyzed on a morphological basis. Plants from Central America have medium purberulence, long calyx lobes, and short petioles and pedicels; those from Jamaica and Haiti are glabrous and have short calyx lobes, petioles, and pedicels; while those from Cuba hava maximum puberulence, medium calyx lobes and pedicels, and long petioles. Glabrous or near-glabrous plants also appear rarely and more or less at random in Central and South America. Distribution in South America is limited to the northwest quarter of the continent. Most plants of this region are similar to those of Central America except that they have slightly shorter calyx lobes. However, the very short calyx lobes of plants from Jamaica and Haiti often occur in South America and rarely in Panama. Furthermore, most features of the Cuban plants appear in those of the Orinoco Basin, while individuals with one of these features, strong puberulence, are occasional elsewhere in South America. It is suggested that the complex originated in northwest South America and diversified there, subsequently radiating north and west. Considerations and problems related to such a dispersal are discussed. Taxonomically the complex is treated as consisting of four subspecies: ssp. parvifolia of Central America and much of the northwest quarter of South America, ssp. myrtilloides of Jamaica and southwest Haiti, ssp. acuta of Cuba, and ssp. orinocensis of the Orinoco Basin, the latter being a new taxon.
2806290|Stryphnodendron moricolor (Mimosaceae) is described, illustrated and discussed. The genus Monopteryx (Fabaceae) is reported for the first time outside Amazonian Brazil and adjacent Venezuela. A key distiguishing the three known species of Monopteryx is presented.
2805871|Seven species are recognized, of which Stenotaphrum helferi, native to forested streambanks in southeastern Asia, is considered the most primitive. Four species are restricted to tropical islands and coasts of the western Indian Ocean; one of these, S. dimidiatum, may have had its range within the region expanded by planting as a pasture grass during the early colonial period. Stenotaphrum micranthum is a naturally wide-ranging beach pioneer in both the tropical Pacific and Indian Oceans, particularly on small, remote islands. The last species, S. secundatum, includes fertile diploids and sterile polyploids. The common diploid race has been found since the early days of botanical exploration as a seashore pioneer on both sides of the Atlantic; in West Africa it is strictly tropical, but in the New World it ranges from the Carolinas and Bermuda to Argentina; early Pacific expeditions also found it in Hawaii and the Australian region; this race has been taken inland as a lawn grass and spread locally as a weed. A triploid clone of this species, originally confined to the Cape of Good Hope region, has recently been planted and naturalized in Australia, various Pacific islands, and North America; another aberrant Southern Hemisphere race has become naturalized in the Mediterranean region.
2806596|Prior to this study thirteen taxa of Sisyrinchium section Bermudiana were recognized as occurring in the Rocky Mountains. Morphological intrapopulational variation and hybridization with polyploidy has led to a general lack of discrete phenetic discontinuities among the species, resulting in differing taxonomic treatments. A biosystematic study utilizing morphology, cytology, analysis of breeding systems, and hybridization was undertaken to resolve the taxonomy of Rocky Mountain populations of Sisyrinchium. The following taxa are considered to be valid species of the Rocky Mountains. S. septentrionale Bicknell, a tetraploid (n=16), the octoploids (n=32) S. idahoense Bicknell and S. radicatum Bicknell, and the duodecaploid (n=48) S. mountanum Greene. In addition, a previously undescribed, octoploid species, S. pallidum (with close affinities to S. idahoense) was discovered in north-central Colorado and southeastern Wyoming.
4497364|We describe 11 new pteridophyte species belonging to various families from Bolivia: Dennstaedtiaceae: Hypolepis scandens, Hypolepis minima; Pteridaceae: Cheilanthes glutinosa, Eriosorus angustus, E. ascendens, E. madidiensis; Tectariaceae: Tectaria jimenezii; and Woodsiaceae: Athyrium latinervatum, Diplazium bipinnatum, D. bolivianum, D. yuyoense. The following new combinations are proposed: Anemia australis, Diplazium andicola, D. andinum, and D. petiolulatum. Polystichum maximum is proposed as a new name for Polystichum giganteum.
2806826|In a cladistic analysis of Recent seed plants, Loconte and Stevenson (1990) obtained results that conflict with our 1986 analysis of both extant and fossil groups and argued that fossil data had led us to incorrect conclusions. To explore this result and the general influence of fossils on phylogeny reconstruction, we assembled new "Recent" and "Complete" (extant plus fossil) data sets incorporating new data, advances in treatment of characters, and those changes of Loconte and Stevenson that we consider valid. Our Recent analysis yields only one most parsimonious tree, that of Loconte and Stevenson, in which conifers are linked with Gnetales and angiosperms (anthophytes), rather than with Ginkgo, as in our earlier Recent and Complete analyses. However, the shortest trees derived from our Complete analysis show five arrangements of extant groups, including that of Loconte and Stevenson and our previous arrangements, suggesting that the result obtained from extant taxa alone may be misleading. This increased ambiguity occurs because features that appear to unite extant conifers and anthophytes are seen as convergences when fossil taxa are interpolated between them. All trees foud in the Complete analysis lead to inferences on character evolution that conflict with those that would be drawn from Recent taxa alone (e.g., origin of anthophytes from plants with a "seed fern" morphology). These results imply that conclusions on many aspects of seed plant phylogeny are premature; new evidence, which is most likely to come from the fossil record, is needed to resolve the uncertainties.
40792898|The new species Kadua haupuensis is described and illustrated from the isolated Mt. Ha'upu region of Kaua'i, Hawaiian Islands. This new species belongs to Kadua subg. Kadua sect. Wiegmannia. It is characterized by a subdioecious (leaky dioecious) breeding system and appears most closely related to another apparently dioecious species endemic to Kaua'i, Kadua flynnii, with which it is compared. Although the only original wild population is critically endangered and may possibly be extinct, this new species has been successfully propagated and is currently secure in cultivation.
2666576|This study was based on the analysis of staminal tube and epicalyx morphology of species of Pavonia (Malvaceae) from northeastern and southeastern Brazil. The importance of characters in the infrageneric taxonomy is discussed. In general, the variability in staminal tube and epicalyx characters are useful mainly in separating closely related species and a few sections; these characters, however, cannot be used to separate subgenera.
4098965| Senna birostris previously included seven varieties distributed mostly above 2000 m, in the Andes, between the equator and 33 S. According to Irwin & Barneby, Senna birostris var. hookeriana was the only variety in Argentina, distributed from the Jujuy province to the San Luis province. New observations led us to identify two distinct entities that have gone under this taxon. The new variety. Senna birostris var. jallaguensis, is described from Argentina and illustrated herein and is compared to Senna birostris var. hookeriana s.str. 
2806950|Tapirira chimalapana is a new species of tree common in the rain forests and lower montane forests of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in the Mexican states of Veracruz and Oaxaca. It is most similar to the Andean T. guianensis Aubl. subsp. subandina Barfod & Holm-Niels. but differs from this and all other congeners by having larger petals on pistillate flowers than on staminate flowers and by pubescence features. Details of field characteristics, distribution, ecology, phenology, germination, and local names and uses are included.
23254285|Recent phylogenetic studies have provided a revised hypothesis of the evolutionary relationships within Polygonaceae, particularly regarding placement of certain tropical taxa. Based on phylogenetic data, we recognize three subfamilies: Eriogonoideae, Polygonoideae, and Symmerioideae. Within the Eriogonoideae we accept six tribes, two of which, Leptogoneae and Gymnopodieae, are new.
2806213|Astragalus yoder-williamsii, related to A. (sect. Neonix) peckii Piper and A. mulfordae M. E. Jones but natably different in its dwarf cespitose habit of growth and pungent leaf-stalks, is described from Humboldt Conty, Nevada and Owyhee County, Idaho.
3218469|A new species of Monstera (Araceae), M. praetermissa, is described, illustrated, and compared to its most similar relatives, M. xanthospatha and M. obliqua. The new species is so far only known from Brazil, but has a broad distribution there, ranging from the south to the northeast of the country.
2806693|A new Mexican species of Dioon has been found in Oaxaca, Dioon califanoi, characterized by keeled fronds and leaflets inserted obliquely above the rachis. A key to the known species of Dioon is given.
2807249|The capitular and floral morphology and anatomy of Bidens L. and Coreopsis L. were studied. All the North American species of Coreopsis were studied. Selected species of Bidens from North and South America and Coreopsis from South America were included. The Results were compared with previous observations on African species of Bidens (incl. Coreopsis). Emphasis was given to character states of the ray florets, paleae, stylearm apices, outer phyllaries, achenes, and pollen grains. Some of the character states are unique features of Coreopsis, e.g., globular and elongately conical receptacles, deltoid outer phyllaries, truncate and indistinctly 3-5 dentate, 3-4 lobead ray florets, narrowly spathulate paleae, subulate paleae with linear-filiform upper half, hairy and apically 3-cleft paleae, truncate, convex or shallowly conical stylearm apices with the sweeeping hairs limited to the area above the stigmatic surfaces and the orbicular to circular achenes. The cylindric setaceous pappus bristles so commonly encountered in Bidens are unknown in Coreopsis. The papus bristles in Coreopsis are paleaceous but similar, though thicker ones are also found in African species of Bidens (incl. Coreopsis) with winged achenes. Twin-celled hairs (setulae) with differing degrees of wall thickness are found on the achenes of Coreopsis sect. Pseudoagarista (Mexico and South America), Coreopsis sect. Pugiopappus (California), African Bidens with winged achenes (e.g., B. prestinaria, B. macroptera) and some North American Bidens (e.g., B. aristosa). Similar sclerotic parenchyma make up the achenial wings of species in both genera. These may be interpreted as homologous structures, indicating the underlying similarity of these taxa and their derivation from a common ancestral stock.
2806110|A new species, Kalbreyeracanthus kirkbridei, from the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, is described, illustrated, and compared with K. atropurpureus, the only other species in the genus.
