10.2307/3241482|Thirty-one species of thallose liverworts are recorded from Dalhousie, northwestern Himalayas.
10.2307/3240796|A directory to the some 1,150 most frequently cited authorities for the epithets of mosses, hepatics, and lichens is given with standardized abbreviations of the names for use in bibliographic citations.
10.2307/3242556|Air quality improvement near a coal-fired power plant led to recolonization of Parmelia caperata (L.) Ach. in a pollution-induced void area. Recolonization was first observed about four years after pollution abatement. Least-affected sites, i.e. near the edge of the original void, were first to recover while most-affected sites were slowest to recover. After eight years of improved air quality, the distribution of P. caperata has returned to near normal. Lichen bio-monitoring is useful not only to detect the effects of poor air quality but to document air quality improvement as well.
23321071|This study provides a molecular phylogeny of Solenostoma and Plectocolea based on trnL-F and trnG-intron cpDNA sequences of 25 species represented by multiple accessions from different regions of Russia and some adjacent countries. Phylogenetic trees constructed using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods are mostly congruent, except for an unstable position of P. vulcanicola, P. rosulans and S. caucasica. Based on our analyses we accept narrow generic concepts and provisionally conclude that only P. hyalina and the P. obovata-P. subelliptica-P. obscura-P. harana-P. emarginata complex should be transferred to the genus Solenostoma. Moreover, two species new to science are described and three varieties are elevated to the species level. Morphologically, Solenostoma rossica Bakalin et Vilnet is characterized by heteroicous inflorescences, red-purple pigmentation restricted to the perianth beak and a whitish-colored stem. Solenostoma major (S. Hatt.) Bakalin et Vilnet is characterized by deep purple rhizoid coloration and wide, flattened, undulate and distant leaves. Solenostoma ochotensis Bakalin et Vilnet has a Solenostoma-like perianth and well-developed plectocoleoid perigynium. Plectocolea kurilensis (Bakalin) Bakalin et Vilnet is similar to P. infusca s. str. but differs by commonly having smaller, grayish and more numerous oil-bodies, deflexed antical leaf margins, undulate leaves and purplish to almost purple rhizoids. Plectocolea ovalifolia (Amak.) Bakalin et Vilnet is only distantly similar to P. infusca s. str., as it has purple rhizoids, oil bodies unlike P. infusca, a smaller plant size, generally distant to rarely contiguous leaves, and ovate leaves, as opposed to lingulate to broadly or transversely elliptic leaves. It is suggested the new species originated in the contact zone of circumboreal and temperate East Asian floras with the possible influence of modern volcanic activity.
10.2307/3241751|The intensities of photosynthesis and respiration of three montane mosses were determined at winter low temperatures. The experiments were carried out under outdoor light and at air temperature, the exposure lasting 4-5 hours. The lowest temperature for CO
10.2307/3242320| All Campylopus species reported from North America north of Mexico have been critically revised. Campylopus subleucogaster C. Mll, and C. donnellii (Aust.) Lesq. & Jam. are conspecific with C. surinamensis C. Mll. (= C. gracilicaulis Mitt.). Campylopus angustiretis (Aust.) Lesq. & Jam. is newly combined as a variety of C. surinamensis, and C. atrovirens De Not. var. cucullatifolius is described as new. Campylopus aureus Bosch. & Lac., C. introflexus (Hedw.) Brid., C. oerstedianus (C. Mll.) Mitt, and C. subulatus Schimp, are reported new to North America. There is discussion of each of the species of Campylopus presently known from North America north of Mexico, including remarks on the taxonomy and distinguishing characteristics. A key to all species is given. 
20061099|A collection of Hong Kong lichens in the Farlow Herbarium (FH) resulting from the United States North Pacific Exploration Expedition (1853-1856), and mainly collected by Charles Wright, has been examined with regards to two recently published papers, 12 species new to Hong Kong and almost all of the 46 species listed pre-date the earliest first records for Hong Kong. A new microthelioid lichen, Distothelia isthmospora Aptroot gen. et sp. nov., is described and a new combination, Pyrrhospora chlorophnia (Tuck.) Aptroot & Seaward comb. nov., is proposed.
10.2307/3242535|Orthotrichum alpestre Hornsch. and Tortula muralis Hedw. are reported from Newfoundland, and their distributions are considerably extended eastwards in North America. Six other moss species are new to Newfoundland: Bryum tortifolium Brid., Cyrtomnium hymenophylloides (Hueb.) Nyh., Encalypta ciliata Hedw., E. procera Bruch, Tetradontium repandum (Sturm) Schwaegr. and Tortula norvegica Lindb. Data are also provided for five other species, including distribution maps for Homalothecium sericeum (Hedw.) B.S.G. and Orthotrichum gymnostomum Brid.
20110794|Twenty-six lichen taxa are reported for the first time from either the Tierra del Fuego Archipelago, the Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), or both, from collections made by Henry Imshaug and his co-workers between 1968 and 1971 and now housed in the herbarium of Michigan State University (MSC). Of these, Alectoria sarmentosa subsp. vexillifera, Bartlettiella fragilis, Micarea incrassata, M. melaena, Parmelia kerguelensis, Rhizocarpon infernulum and R. submodestum are reported for the first time from South America, and Alectoria nigricans, Brigantiaea fuscolutea, Buellia anisomera, B. subcervina, Caloplaca isidioclada, C. millegrana, Lecidella wulfenii and Megalospora tuberculosa are reported for the first time from Argentina or the Falkland Islands.
10.2307/3244469|The new species Brachymitrion immersum is described based on a single collection from Cameroon. The species appears closely related to the new world B. cochabambae from which it differs in sporophytic characters. Brachymitrion immersum is easily distinguished from the sympatric B. jamesonii and B. moritzianum by its immersed to emergent capsules. The species is illustrated and a key to the species of Brachymitrion is presented.
10.2307/3242827| Bryoria subdivergens (Dahl) Brodo & D. Hawksw., formerly known only from its type locality in southwest Greenland, has now been found in several new sites in western Greenland as well as in an alpine community in the Bitterroot Mountains of Montana, USA. The species is compared with two other members of Bryoria sect. Subdivergentes: B. abbeviata (Mll. Arg.) Brodo & D. Hawksw. and B. oregana (Tuck, ex Nyl.) Brodo & D. Hawksw., and is found to be distinct from both. 
20485782|Acarospora nicolai is revised and a lectotype designated. Acarospora caesiofusca is made a synonym of A. nicolai and a lectotype is designated. Acarospora nicolai is a pruinose brown crustose species containing gyrophoric acid and occurs in Mexico (Puebla) and the United States (Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas) on sandstone.
10.2307/3243728|Anomodon lagoensis Hampe is transferred to Rauiella; R. lagoensis (Hampe) Buck is the oldest name for the better known R. subcatenulata. The other South American species treated as Rauiella are discussed briefly.
10.2307/3244392| The types of sixteen taxa of Amblystegiaceae were studied. Most of these taxa are considered synonyms of other well-known species. Several taxa are lectotypified, most notably Thuidium decipiens De Not. (Palustriella decipiens (De Not.) Ochyra) and Hypnum falcatum Brid. (Palustriella falcata (Brid.) Hedens). The latter seems to be the only representative of the genus in North America: all studied specimens labelled P. decipiens or P. commutata (Hedw.) Ochyra belong to other taxa, except for one specimen of P. commutata, whose geographical origin is unclear. 
10.2307/3241946|The type specimen of Pyxine azorea Nyl. is identical with Parmelia caroliniana Nyl. The species is new to the African continent and the Azores.
10.2307/3240810|Fifteen liverworts and nine mosses are reported as new state records or as verifications of earlier reports. The Appalachian nature of the bryoflora of Pickle Spring in Ste. Genevieve County is discussed.
10.2307/3243214|A quantitative study of marine and maritime lichens on serpentine rock on the north shore of Washington Park, Fidalgo Island (Skagit County), Washington, revealed that major changes in the prominence values (or conspicuousness in the field) of a number of lichens and asssociated organisms occurred in the vicinity of certain elevations. This finding suggests that critical changes in environmental conditions occurred at or near these elevations. When the site was viewed as a whole, the zonation was rather indistinct, primarily because freshwater seepages modified marine-controlled zonation patterns. In addition, patchy patterns of feeding by marine snails and manuring by birds modified the zonal distributions. Upper or lower limits of certain taxa, or of conspicuous "belts" of particular taxa, were used in this study to define zone boundaries. General features of zonation at this site, in nonseepage areas, were similar in some respects to those in British studies.
10.2307/3242417|The new Amazonian liverwort genus Verdoornianthus is considered to be a specialized derivative of the widespread tropical genus Archilejeunea. Differences are the absence of innovations, the dull, suberect leaves, the tristratose rhizoid pad and the larger size of the lobule of the female bracts in Verdoornianthus. There are two species, V. marsupiifolius (Spruce) comb. nov. (Lejeunea marsupiifolia Spruce) from the upstream part of the Rio Negro and V. griffinii sp. nov. from Manaus.
41486719|Events of the sexual reproductive cycle of 11 bryophyte species (mosses and liverworts with monoicous and dioicous sexual conditions) were described for two different sites (montane and sea level) of a Brazilian tropical rain forest, during a 15 month-period. The sex expression of many species was continuous over the whole period, irrespective of the seasons and the forest sites. The specific sexual conditions of dioicous species did not change, but synoicous species had strategies to increase the chances of out-crossing, bearing unisexual branches in addition to bisexual ones. The pattern of gametangia and sporophyte development was different among the species, but the same between the sites. There was a seasonal effect on the maturation of gametangia and sporophytes. Male gametangia were mostly mature by the end of the dry season. Fertilization occurred during the wettest months and sporophytes developed during the dry season, dispersal of spores mostly towards the end of the dry season. Female gametangia were receptive over the whole period, with many mature gametangia before the start of the rainy season. Male gametangia, in contrast to female, took longer to develop and aborted in high numbers. Bryophytes in tropical rain forests are favored by wet weather and mild temperatures. Similar reproductive phenological patterns were found in different habitats with minor variations.
10.2307/3243253|Leucoloma serrulatum, Brachymenium systylium, Macromitrium cirrosum, M. fragilicuspis, Schlotheimia rugifolia and Zelometeorium allionii are reported new to Nicaragua along with twelve additional Departmental records.
3244612|Ophioparma juniperiicola, a new lignicolous species, is described from eastern Spain. It is closely related with O. rubricosa by the appearance of thallus and apothecia, and the presence of divaricatic and usnic acids. The outstanding differences are in spore size and shape and the pycnospore width. Ophioparma juniperiicola is a lignicolous species with granular thallus-often reseambling isidia-and three septate ascospores, with average and size interval do not overlap with other species in the genus. A key of Ophioparma species is presented.
10.2307/3241413|Neosharpiella is described as new on the basis of two species, the type, N. aztecorum sp. nov., of Central America, and Physcomitrium turgidum Mitt., of Ecuador and Bolivia.
10.2307/3243866|Neofuscelia halei sp. nov. is described from Spain and the Canary Islands. This species, named in honor of the late Dr. Mason E. Hale, Jr., differs from the related N. verruculifera (Nyl.) Essl. primarily by its production of alectoronic and gyrophoric acids as major medullary compounds, rather than divaricatic acid, and by its much more limited geographic distribution.
10.2307/3242369|One hundred thirteen taxa of foliose and fruticose lichens are reported from Big Bend National Park, keys to the macrolichens and lists of the localities visited are included. Many taxa were collected infrequently, which may indicate restricted local distributions in the park. New records for North America are: Peltula radicata (Ach.) Nyl., Rechingeria cribellifera (Nyl.) Serv., Heterodermia diademata (Tayl.) Awas. A new combination is made for Heterodermia rugulosa (Kurok.) Wetm. and it is recorded for the first time north of Mexico.
10.2307/3243395|Pleurophascum occidentale is described as a new species from Albany, Western Australia. It differs strongly from Pleurophascum grandiglobum, the only other species in the endemic Southern Hemisphere family Pleurophascaceae. In particular, P. occidentale is a larger plant, 2-3 cm tall, with elliptic leaves about 6 mm long and 2.5 mm wide. The acute apex narrows into a flexuose, hoary, serrate hairpoint.
10.2307/3243490|Geographic patterns of intraspecific variation of isoenzymes were examined in Umbilicaria mammulata (Ach.) Tuck., the most common umbilicate lichen in eastern North America. Multidimensional relationships among thalli from 13 sites were expressed graphically through Principal Components and Cluster Analyses and, in some cases, a close relationship was evident between stands located near one another or aligned with prevailing winds. However, that there was sometimes less similarity between nearby collection sites than between geographically distant ones, was a finding at variance with an earlier study based on fewer collection sites. This result indicates the importance of sampling intensity in isoenzyme studies. Wind patterns in the study area were complex and it was not clear whether wind was involved in dissemination or to some extent responsible for geographic distribution of isozyme patterns. In spite of intraspecific variation, many features of enzyme profiles were consistent throughout the sampling range.
10.2307/3242188|Antarctic terrestrial ecosystems can be divided into two main series: those of continental Antarctica and those of the maritime Antarctic. Within the former series, plant "communities" exist as isolated groupings of plants growing under a severe continental polar-desert climate and appear to be similar to communities of the High Arctic (e.g. the interior plateau of Devon Island). Communities in the maritime Antarctic region are more diverse, with less severe environmental conditions, and show affinities with lichen communities occupying similar habitats in boreal-Arctic zones of the northern hemisphere. Roles played by lichens in the two series of ecosystems are influenced considerably by environmental conditions and in continental Antarctica are often completely subordinated to physical processes. Weathering of substrata, for instance, in continental Antarctica, consists of the operation of several physical processes with lichens playing an insignificant role. It is only in the more suitable habitats found in the maritime Antarctic that lichens are able to play their full role in the development and functioning of ecosystems.
10.2307/3242481|Haplomitrium hookeri (Smith) Nees has been reported for the first time from Western Himalayas, India. The distributional range for this species is significantly extended.
10.2307/3243311|The rare species Lophozia (Isopaches) decolorans (Limpr.) Steph., previously known only from alpine and arctic regions of Europe is reported for western North America. A key to the three holarctic taxa in the subgenus Isopaches (Buch) Schust. is presented. The ecology of L. decolorans is discussed, and the scattered and in part contradictory literature is assessed. The ability to tolerate windswept and intermittently desiccated sites suggests the species may have survived the Pleistocene north of areas of continental glaciation and in ice-free corridors situated (in North America) between the major eastern and western ice sheets.
10.2307/3241694|A study of the collective lichen species Cetraria islandica (L.) Ach. based upon some 3,000 individuals from 100 localities in Iceland shows that the extreme morphological variation is not correlated with the chemical variation (presence or absence of fumarprotocetraric acid). This is in striking contrast to the high correlation of chemical and morphological characters in this species complex on the European mainland, which serves there as the basis for the separation of C. islandica sens. str. and C. ericetorum Opiz. Differences in the geographical distribution of the chemical characters, fertility, and the range of morphological variability indicate that there are two ecological races in Iceland: 1) a fumarprotocetraric acid-producing, nonfertile race with rather narrow morphological variability, mainly distributed along the coasts and in the more oceanic southern part of the country, and 2) a morphologically and chemically variable race (with or without fumarprotocetraric acid), frequently fertile, and distributed throughout the Central Highlands and northern Iceland. In the latter race, the frequent occurrence of both chemical types within the same morpho-phenotype at individual localities indicates that gene exchange may occur between the fumarprotocetraric acid-producing and the fumarprotocetraric acid-lacking plants.
10.2307/3242534|Explanted premeiotic sporocytes of field-collected plants of the liverwort Sphaerocarpos texanus Aust. were cultured on defined medium in depression slides. The sporocytes underwent meiosis and early stages of spore wall formation. These results indicate that this liverwort may be useful in biochemical studies of meiosis.
3244348|Harpidium nashii Scheidegger, sp. nov. is described as new to science. The species is similar to Harpidium rutilans, hitherto the only species of the genus, but differs considerably in thallus morphology. Harpidium nashii is known from four localities in Baja California and California. This is the first report of the genus Harpidium from outside Europe.
10.2307/3242021| There are presently 91 species and one subspecies, in 39 genera and 23 families of Hepaticae, recorded from the Yukon Territory, Canada. Sixty-three species are from literature reports and 28 species and one sub species are reported here as new. Significant range extensions are recorded for Macrodiplophyllum microdontum (Mitt.) Perss., Radula prolifera Arn., Scapania spitzbergensis (Lindb.) K.Mll., Frullania tamarisci (L.) Dum. and Hygrolejeunea alaskana Schuster & Steere. With more intensive field work the number of taxa found in the Yukon can be expected to increase greatly. 
10.2307/3242847|The genus Glyphothecium Hampe (Ptychomniaceae) is treated herein as comprised of three species. Glyphothecium sciuroides (Hook.) Hampe is reported for the first time to occur in the New World, growing sympatrically with G. gracile (Hampe) Broth. in Patagonia. The distribution of G. gracile in parts of the world other than southern South America is questioned. Morphological distinctions between G. sciuroides and G. gracile are clarified for the first time. The disjunct distribution of G. sciuroides is correlated with the distribution of a known phorophyte, Nothofagus.
10.2307/3242954|Porotrichum neomexicanum (Card.) Wagn., which has been considered a rare endemic moss known only from Arizona and New Mexico, is believed to be a synonym of the common western North American species, Metaneckera menziesii (Hook. ex Drumm.) Steere.
10.2307/3242376|Grimmia cribrosa Hedw. is reported for two new localities in Canada, Ellesmere Island, N.W.T. and Thunder Bay District, Ontario. Its distribution in North America is mapped.
10.2307/3243509|Epiphytic lichens and bryophytes were studied on five major tree species occurring in two forest regions over 1,200 km apart, the Adirondack Mountains, New York and the Southern Blue Ridge Mountains, North Carolina. The trees were Acer saccharum, A. rubrum, Betula alleghaniensis, Fagus grandifolia, and Tsuga canadensis. Comparison of species composition and ordinations using quantitative frequency and cover measurements for the five major tree species showed that very few species were host specific, but that most communities of lichens, of bryophytes, and of both combined, were specific to particular tree species. Climate and plant geography proved important to host specificity of these cryptogamic communities. Many more species of lichens than bryophytes occurred as epiphytes; crustose lichens were particularly important in the Adirondacks. Higher diversity of lichen epiphytes, particularly foliose, in the Southern Appalachians influenced differences in host specificity between the two regions. Comparisons are made with previous epiphyte studies in Eastern North America.
10.2307/3242962|A new species of Dicranum, D. tubulifolium, is described from northern Mexico. The species is apparently related to D. muehlenbeckii B.S.G. of North America, Europe and Asia. Two new combinations are made in the Hypnaceae, Isopterygium machrisianum (Crum) Irel. and Taxiphyllum robusticaule (Bartr.) Irel. Three species of Isopterygium, I. distichaceum (Mitt.) Jaeg. & Sauerb., I. homomallifolium Redf. and I. muellerianum (Schimp.) Jaeg. & Sauerb., are reported new to Mexico and a key to the species of the country is presented. The morphology of Mittenothamnium scalpellifolium is discussed.
10.2307/3241535|A type specimen is designated to validate the name Leucodon brachypus var. andrewsianus Crum & Anderson.
41486722|Trichocolea japonica is described as a new species from central Japan, characterized by regular branching habit, massive verrucae on the surface of the leaf cilia, and linear to semiannular thickenings in the epidermal cells of the capsule wall.
10.2307/3241303|Water relations of living lichens, dead lichens, and cellulose model lichens were studied at different relative humidities. An air flow system allowed instantaneous weight measurement while water uptake or loss was occurring. In all cases, living lichens had the greatest uptake rates, followed by dead lichens and cellulose models. Nonaqueous staining techniques showed that in living, but not in dead lichens, most of the water is held in the algal layer. The processes of water vapor uptake and water loss are apparently physical, and the differences in rates can be explained by differences in the physical properties of the test materials.
10.2307/3244470|Didymodon norrisii Zand. is a new species of moss found in California and Oregon, U.S.A., belonging to Didymodon sect. Rufidulus (Chen) Zand. It differs most saliently from congeners by the combination of the deep brick or rose red color in KOH, costa covered by quadrate epidermal cells nearly to the leaf insertion on both sides, and apparent asexual reproduction through fragile branch apices. The new species is included in a key to the North American (north of Mexico) taxa.
3244683|A set of 700 moss specimens from the Monies Azules Biosphere Reserve accounts for a list of 136 species and varieties, including ten species new to Mexico, for the Lacandon Forest of eastern Chiapas. With the addition of eight published reports, a total of 144 taxa are now recorded from major habitats in this area. The Caribbean relationships in this moss flora, with 82 species, are the most important while endemic taxa are virtually absent. Although the neotropical character of the Lacandon Forest moss flora is further emphasized by eleven Meso-American species, the widely distributed groups are also represented; 31 pantropical and 14 disjunct taxa are shared with other tropical areas. The patterns of distribution, the life-forms, and the structural diversity of mosses are features that should be preserved in eastern Chiapas in order to maintain biological attributes that have been eliminated from other tropical areas in Mexico.
20110819|The history and usage of the name Rinodina Rinodina chrysomelaena is discussed. The name is typified and the distribution of the species documented.
10.2307/3242976|Biomass was estimated in stands at about 600 m elevation. Epiphytes were divided into three categories: lichens with blue-green phycobionts, lichens with green phycobionts only, and bryophytes. Total biomass was 3500 kg ha
10.2307/3243243|Data on weight-class distribution, growth rate and asexual propagule (lobule) release are used to analyze populations of the nitrogen-fixing lichen Lobaria oregana in old-growth Douglas fir canopies of western Oregon. A life-table model prepared from observed data is used to produce an estimate of net annual production of biomass, and to analyze the response of a population of this lichen to possible environmental perturbations. The weight-class distribution is similar in each of four trees studied and at different levels within the trees, but differed among the different components of the trees. Survivorship curves (log survivorship versus estimated thallus age) are similar for populations in all trees studied. Estimated net annual production is 31.1% of the standing crop of Lobaria oregana biomass. Mathematical manipulation of matrix formulations of the life-table model indicates that populations would be stable if they recruited 10% of the lobules released each year. In such a configuration, the model population returns to its original size and distribution within 30 years following a simulated storm that removes 90% of the largest thalli and momentarily increases lobule production.
40732259|Lichen diversity and coverage on willow oaks were measured in 16 parks in the Raleigh area of North Carolina, plus one natural area in nearby Orange County (control), as a pilot study for a potential statewide lichen biomonitoring project. This study's objectives were to assess the air pollution effects of the Raleigh urban airshed on these lichen communities, and determine what methods are best for this bioassessment. Thirty-one macrolichens and 24 crustose lichens were detected with average trunk floras of 4-20 taxa per site. Lichen communities were dominated by: Buellia curtisii, Candelaria concolor, Candelariella reflexa, Lecanora strobilina, L. hybocarpa, Physcia millegrana, Pyxine subcinerea and Punctelia rudecta, of which the macrolichen species are known to be pollution-tolerant, including Py. subcinerea, which is here described as such. The control site largely lacked these species, and harbored lichens more representative of nearby protected forests. All sites lacked pollution-sensitive beard lichens (Usnea spp.) and cyanolichens that are found in protected forests. Lichen Diversity Value (LDV) analysis of macrolichens did not result in the expected pattern of increasing diversity further away from the city center, due to a number of factors. However, negative correlations were found between lichen diversity variables and human population and traffic variables, as well as between tree trunk size and crustose lichen diversity. Macrolichen species richness and abundance were higher on mossy trunks, but crustose lichen diversity was lower. Bark texture and moisture as well as air quality appeared to influence the structure and composition of these lichen communities. In summary, the lichen communities on the urban trees appeared to be affected by the region's air pollution both in terms of diversity and species composition. Diversity measures are best tracked if the total community is measured, not just the macrolichen component. Crustose lichen coverage should also be incorporated in abundance studies.
10.2307/3242848|Fungi were observed in the central hydroid strand of underground axes of Polytrichum commune Hedw. Hyphal strands appeared continuous from hydroid to hydroid in certain cases, apparently penetrating the lateral walls of hydroids. Hyphae were also observed on the epidermal surfaces of the rhizomes. Newly initiated gametophores and mature gametophores appeared robust and healthy. Whether the moss-fungus association is a host-parasite relationship or mycorrhizal-like was not determined.
3244665|Tayloria maidenii Broth. is known only from the type locality in eastern Australia. Examination of the type material reveals that this taxon belongs neither in the genus Tayloria nor in the Splachnaceae. Type material of Tayloria maidenii is referable to Entosthodon laxus (Hook. f. & Wilson) Mitt. (Funariaceae). A lectotype for Tayloria maidenii Broth. is designated.
10.2307/3241313|Six hepatics and two mosses are reported as new to Arizona. The taxonomy of Orthotrichum laevigatum fo. macounii is discussed.
20110884|Pleuridium mexicanum is hereby reported for the first time for the U.S.A. from the Santa Ynez Mountains in Santa Barbara County, California. This discovery adds a third species of Pleuridium recorded for California.
10.2307/3241670|The lichen substances produced by 14 species are reported for the first time. The new data constitute the first chemical reports for any species of the genera Arthonia, Bacidia, Lopadium, Omphalodium, Protoblastenia, Solenopsora, and Toninia.
10.2307/3242245|The holotype of Didymodon trifarius (Hedw.) Roehl. proved to be Saelania glaucescens (Hedw.) Broth. The taxon commonly referred to by the former name should now be called D. luridus Hornsch. in Spreng.
10.2307/3243309|Grimmia limprichtii Kern was found 1993 in the French Hautes Alps. This rare alpine species, described in 1897 from the Italian Alps, was subsequently recorded from some French and Swiss localities. Because Loeske incorrectly considered it to be a muticousform ofG. anodon Bruch et Schimp., the species was more or less forgotten. Its morphology, taxonomy, ecology, and distribution are briefly outlined. Grimmia obtusifolia Gao & Cao, recently described from the Himalayas, is conspecific with G. limprichtii Kern.
20110900|A checklist of the 310 bryophyte taxa (two hornworts, 46 liverworts and 262 mosses) reported to occur within the political boundaries of the state of Nevada is presented. 238 new county records are also listed. Notes are provided for species with complex synonymies, taxonomic difficulties or interesting histories. This checklist is intended to improve efforts towards a complete bryophyte flora of the state by identifying those species, habitats and geographic regions that have been neglected or poorly sampled.
10.2307/3244525|Bryophytes provide microhabitats for aquatic invertebrates, many of which are capable of anhydrobiosis. Densities of nematodes, tardigrades, rotifers, and other invertebrates recovered from Eurhynchium oreganum (Sull.) Jaeg, were determined for over one year at an Oregon Coast Range site. Extraction efficiency of Baermann funnels was evaluated by collection on subsequent days followed by squeezing and agigation of moss. Densities of the nematodes, Eudorylaimus spp. and Plectus spp., varied significantly between sampling dates, but densities of Monhystera spp., Tylenchus spp., and Prionchulus muscorum Dujardin did not. Total tardigrade and mite densities differed significantly between sampling dates, but rotifer, amphipod, and turbellarian densities did not. Nematode densities were within the low range of densities previously reported from mosses. Motility efficiency may affect nematode distribution within mosses. Baermann funnels were effective in recovering nematodes and tardigrades, but not rotifers from moss. Nutrient cycling by moss-dwelling aquatic invertebrates is implied by the diversity of their feeding strategies.
3244870| Isopterygium tenerum (Sw.) Mitt., a species previously considered restricted to the New World, is reported for the first time from the Old World. Examination of the type collections of three South African species that were given names under Plagiothecium and Isopterygium, namely Plagiothecium rhynchostegioides Mll. Hal., P. sphagnadelphus Mll. Hal., and Isopterygium brachycarpum Dixon, revealed their conspecificity with I. tenerum. Accordingly, this species is established as one more Afro-American disjunct species. Some gametophytic structures of the type specimens of the South African species are illustrated. 
10.2307/3243542| A new genus, Rimelia Hale & Fletcher, typified by Parmelia cetrata Ach., is described. There are 12 species: R. austrocetrata (Elix & Johnst.) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov.; R. cetrata (Ach.) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov.; R. commensurata (Hale) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov.; R. diffractaica (Essl.) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov.; R. hawaiiensis (Zahlbr.) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov.; R. homotoma (Nyl.) Hale & Fletcher, comb nov.; R. macrocarpa (Pers.) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov.; R. olivaria (Ach.) Hale & Fletcher, comb nov.; R. reticulata (Tayl.) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov.; R. ruminata (Zahlbr.) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov.; R. simulans (Hale) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov.; and R. subisidiosa (Mll. Arg.) Hale & Fletcher, comb. nov. Rimelia is closely related to Parmotrema Massal. and differentiated by rhizine, conidial, apothecial, and chemical characters. 
10.2307/3242485|Two new species of Hypotrachyna and one new species of Parmotrema are described from Western Ghats, India.
20110956|The interaction between UV radiation and mineral availability has not been investigated in bryophytes, despite the important peculiarities of their mineral nutrition. The question under investigation was whether an improvement in phosphorus (P) availability, and the consequent increase in tissue P concentration, modified the responses to enhanced UV radiation in two aquatic bryophytes (the liverwort Jungermannia exsertifolia subsp. cordifolia and the moss Fontinalis antipyretica) under laboratory conditions. These responses were evaluated in terms of photosynthetic pigment composition, chlorophyll fluorescence, photosynthesis and respiration rates and the accumulation of protecting UV-absorbing compounds (both the commonly used bulk UV-absorbance of methanol extracts in both species and the concentrations of five hydroxycinnamic acid derivatives in the liverwort). The culture period (36 days) affected significantly most variables of both species. However, no variable in either species showed significant differences between the P-supplemented and non-supplemented samples at the end of the experiment, except the vitality index
10.2307/3242350|One new species of Everniastrum, E. paramense, and four new species of Hypotrachyna, H. cendensis, H. meridensis, H. neoflavida and H. primitiva, are described from the paramo region of Venezuela.
10.2307/3243984|Keys, descriptions, illustrations, and discussions are provided for the 11 species of Pleurozia (Jungermanniales, Pleuroziaceae). The unusual morphology of the genus is reviewed. The evolutionary relations within Pleurozia are explored through a cladistic analysis, and as a result of this analysis, two new subgenera are described: Constantifolia and Diversifolia. The genus Eopleurozia is reduced to synonymy under Pleurozia subg. Exauriculata. Pleurozia curiosa from New Caledonia, and P. conchifolia var. papillosa from Indonesia are newly described.
10.2307/3243405|Eleven species of Frullania occur in North America west of the hundredth meridian. The species are discussed and a key is provided. The following are new reports: F. bolanderi in Alaska and Arizona; F. brittoniae in Arizona; F. inflata in Nebraska; F. eboracensis in Arizona, New Mexico, and South Dakota; and F. riparia in Arizona and Colorado.
10.2307/3241625|Desmatodon randii (Kenn.) Laz., possessing a widely disjunct distribution between Europe and North America, has had its European glacial refuge in the recent Ukrainian locality, from where the Baltic Sea shores were invaded. An inbred laboratory culture line has retained a vigorous fertility through 15 successive generations but, on the other hand, also gave rise to a spontaneous apogamous line in haplophase, which, perpetuated vegetatively, has behaved as a persistent modification; being reproduced, however, by apogamous spores, it has lost apogamy stepwise, passing through an amphomorphic stage.
10.2307/3243145|Syrrhopodon isthmi Reese, sp. nov. (Musci; Calymperaceae), is described and illustrated from Panama, Prov. Panama. Diagnostic features include a narrow border on the leaves, ventrally bulging cancellinae, smooth leaf cells, and spinose-ciliate leaf tips.
10.2307/3241759|Cololejeunea cardiocarpa (Mont.) Steph. and Leucolejeunea unciloba (Lindenb.) Evans are epiphyllous in Thomas County, Georgia. This is the first report of epiphyllous Hepaticae from Georgia.
10.2307/3242375| Qualitative analysis by paper chromatography revealed seven free amino acids in Anaptychia diademata (Tayl) Korukawa and eight in A. podocarpa (Bl) Mass. 
3244695|Growth form and substrate influences on elemental accumulation patterns were investigated in four lichen species. Two fruticose species (Usnea amblyoclada on rock and Usnea hirta on bark) and two foliose species (Flavoparmelia caperata on rock and Flavopunctelia flaventior on bark) were collected below Massai Point in Chiricahua National Monument in southeastern Arizona, U.S.A. Samples were analyzed for 14 elements. A two-way ANOVA model was used to examine the relationships between substrate and growth form (independent variables) on element accumulation (dependent variable) patterns in lichen samples. In the ANOVA model the growth form variable was significant for K, Ca, Ti, Ba, Fe, Ni Cu, Zn, Pb, Rb, and Sr while the substrate variable was significant for K, Ti, Mn, Fe, Ni, Rb, and Sr. A significant interaction between the two class variables was observed for P, K, Ti, Mn, Fe Ni, Rb, and Sr. Accumulation of sulfur appeared to be independent of both growth form and substrate influences. In this study growth form was a key factor affecting element accumulation patterns in lichens. It is proposed that thallus continuity and orientation, which partially define growth form characteristics, influenced the accumulation of elements from airborne and substrate sources.
3244595| This paper reports nine new moss records for Mexico from the Lacandona Forest: Calymperes rubiginosum, Fissidens guianensis var. guianensis, Mniomalia viridis, Orthostichella hexasticha, Orthostichopsis praetermisa, Phyllodrepanium falcifolium, Syrrhopodon flexifolius, Syrrhopodon africanus subsp. graminicola, and Syrrhopodon hornschuchii. Findings reported here demonstrate that there is still incomplete knowledge of the moss diversity in the Lacandona tropical rain forest region. Future research in tropical forests of southeastern Mexico and Central America will help to corroborate the continuity of distributional patterns from South America to North America through the Central American bridge. /// Se comunican nueve registros nuevos para Mxico de la Selva Lacandona: Calymperes rubiginosum, Fissidens guianensis var. guianensis. Mniomalia viridis, Orthostichella hexasticha, Orthostichopsis praetermisa, Phyllodrepanium falcifolium, Syrrhopodon flexifolius, Syrrhopodon africanus subsp. graminicola, y Syrrhopodon hornschuchii. Los resultados obtenidos demuestran que, en la selva tropical perennifolia de la regin Lacandona, el conocimiento sobre la diversidad de los musgos todava es incompleto. Investigaciones futuras en las selvas tropicales del sureste de Mxico y centroamrica, ayudarn a corroborar la continuidad de los patrones de distribucin desde Sudamrica a Norteamrica a travs del puente centroamericano. 
20110781|A large-scale metabolic screen was performed for 51,180 targeted knockout mutants of the haploid moss Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) Bruch & Schimp. The growth ability of each mutant was compared to the wild type. Plants were cultured on a minimal medium which contained only macroelements, as well as on a supplemented medium, additionally containing microelements, glucose, vitamins, ammonium tartrate, adenine, peptone and Na-palmitic acid. The screen resulted in the identification of 20 (0.04%) auxotrophs. Medium supplementation tests were performed for five auxotrophs, which showed no growth on minimal medium, but were rescued on supplemented medium. One vitamin-deficient mutant was identified as p-aminobenzoic acid auxotroph, three plants were nitrate assimilation deficient mutants and one transformant showed undefined growth requirements. The screen resulted further in the identification of two physiological mutants, exhibiting an albino phenotype on minimal medium but a green wild type phenotype on the supplemented medium. The culture of both albinos under low light intensities could not prevent bleaching, revealing that the missing production of chlorophyll was not caused by light sensitivity. Astonishingly, the supplementation of the minimal medium with selected compounds of the supplemented medium did also not prevent bleaching. Moreover, both mutants produced green protonemata, even if single substances of the supplemented medium were lacking. It was concluded that a complex network of interactions related to photosynthesis in Physcomitrella was disturbed. This is the first detailed study of auxotrophic and albino Physcomitrella mutants produced by transformation-mediated gene disruption. The described physiological mutants provide valuable resources for the identification of essential gene functions of plant metabolism.
10.2307/3244000|Lescuraea morrisonensis fo. sichuanensis is described from Sichuan, China.
10.2307/3242212|Data on growth and reproduction in relation to microclimate in boreal forest populations of Polytrichum alpestre Hoppe at Elma and Pinawa, Manitoba, and in sub-Arctic populations at Churchill, Manitoba, are compared with previous results from Antarctic regions. Thermistor readings at 15-60 min intervals for over two years indicated that moss level temperatures at Pinawa were relatively stable between 0C and -10C beneath winter snow cover but showed wide diurnal fluctuation in summer. Mean daily maxima were commonly ca. 40C from May through August, but mean daytime temperatures were normally ca. 15 degrees lower. Freeze-thaw cycles in spring and autumn were less frequent, with higher minimum temperatures, at moss level than 200 cm above the ground. Shoots of P. alpestre show annual growth segments due to variation in the length of leaves produced at different times during the summer growing season. Stem elongation at Pinawa plotted against time showed a sigmoid curve. Both stem elongation and leaf production occurred principally during June and July, but current season growth segments may continue to increase in weight until September. The mid-summer cessation of stem elongation showed no strong correlation with temperature or moss water content. A similar sigmoid pattern was recorded when plants were grown under constant environmental conditions, at photoperiods of 12 h or 17 h, suggesting that growth may be partially under endogenous control. Shoots less than 4 years old predominated in samples from colonies at Pinawa and at Churchill. Replacement occurred through the development of lateral shoots from buds commonly located 5-10 cm behind the apex of the parent shoot. The young shoots were initially non-photosynthetic, bearing only white tomentum and scale leaves until the apices reached the surface of the turf. Net annual shoot production in two colonies at Churchill was estimated as 97 and 148 g m
10.2307/3242861|Philonotis corticata, described as a new species from Mexico, is made distinctive by large outer stem cells and leaves with excurrent costa, plane margins, and short cells centrally papillose at back.
10.2307/3243033|Descriptions, illustrations, and a key are given for the seventeen species of Syrrhopodon that occur in peninsular Malaysia and Singapore. Many new synonyms for these species are established based on extensive review of species of Calymperaceae described from Malaysia and adjacent regions. Syrrhopodon laevis Mohamed & Reese, comb, et stat. nov., is based on S. aberrans Broth, var. laevis Dix.
10.2307/3240952|Psilopilum cavifolium is new to the bryoflora of Ellesmere Island. Seventeen other rare arctic mosses are reported from Tanquary Camp, Ellesmere Island.
10.2307/3242117|Homalothecium sericeum (Hedw.) B.S.G. has recently been omitted from the moss flora of North America but its occurrence on the continent is established by the discovery of three Newfoundland collections. The first collection was made by Bachelot de la Pylaie in 1817 while two others were made by A. C. Waghorne in 1892 and 1894. The species is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3242671|Austrolejeunea bidentata is newly described based on a collection made in New South Wales. A. bidentata differs from other species of the genus in the presence of small, cucullate lateral leaves with non-papillose cells, and lobules bidentate and almost as large as the lobes. A key to species of Austrolejeunea is included.
10.2307/3241530|Fissidens asplenioides Hedw. is reported from northeastern Alabama and its presently known distribution in the United States is mapped. Characters of the leaves are compared with those of F. osmundioides Hedw.
10.2307/3243176|Seventy-two species of foliose and fruticose lichens are reported for eastern Iowa, ten of them new records for the state. This flora shows greatest affinity with the eastern North American floristic region and has few species with a boreal, tropical or southwestern U.S. distribution.
10.2307/3243403|Habitat requirements are evaluated for 18 epixylic bryophyte species in late successional spruce forests. Considering only localities suitable for the species, regional frequency, local frequency, and local abundance were measured together with occurrence of sexual and asexual reproduction. Four distribution patterns are distinguished. 1) Core species occur abundantly at a majority of the available localities. They frequently produce spores or gemmae, which are easily dispersed or easily established. Alternatively, the populations may be stable. 2) Urban species occur abundantly at a few of the available localities. They frequently produce gemmae but rarely spores. These species are interpreted as having limited dispersal ability between localities. 3) Rural species occur in small populations at a majority of the available localities. It is difficult to interpret this pattern and only one species was found. They may be species changing from core towards satellite species or vice versa. 4) Satellite species occur in small populations at a few of the available localities, or establishment difficulties.
3244916| The sexually dimorphic liverwort, Sphaerocarpos texanus, can be used to study changes in sex ratios in a cohort of individuals during different life stages, from spore development to germination to senescence. Recent attempts to germinate spores under controlled conditions have been successful. This study used laboratory-derived spores to detect subtle sex-specific differences in germination in a cohort of spores across different dormancy breaking temperatures. Sex ratios were determined for subsets of sporelings held at 35/20, 30/15, and 25/15C for one to eight wk. Sex ratios were female biased for spores that lost dormancy in the 25/15C and when the data were pooled across the three dormancy breaking thermoperiods. This pattern coupled with the potential for spore banks formation in S. texanus can lead to a single cohort of spores influencing the sporeling sex ratios across seasons. 
10.2307/3241876|Indusiella andersonii Delgadillo sp. nov. is characterized by a bistratose leaf blade, 4-6 rows of thin-walled marginal cells at mid-leaf and costa ending well below leaf apex. Similar leaf structure in I. andersonii, Aloina spp. and Polytrichum juniperinum is perhaps due to convergent evolution.
10.2307/3243146|A synopsis of Rinodina althallina, R. subnigra and R. zwackhiana is given. The last species is shown to possess sorediate and fertile morphs for the first time and to be conspecific with R. transsylvanica and R. violascens. The possible advantages of such a dual reproductive strategy are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3241693|Twenty species are recognized in Pilotrichum, apparently confined to the American tropics. Most species of Pilotrichum have restricted ranges, although three are widespread. Several species are confined to each of the following areas: the Greater Antilles, the oceanic Lesser Antilles, and Central and northern South America. Two species are endemic to Cocos Island. Several species groups are recognized in Pilotrichum, the branch leaves proving the most useful characters for delineating these. For example, the P. affine-P. hypnoides group has narrow leaves with long costae with large dorsal crests. Pilotrichum, Pilotrichidium, and Diploneuron have been placed in the Pilotrichaceae. The family is based on one minor character of stem anatomy. Comparison of other features of these genera shows that there are no reasonable grounds for treating them as a separate family. Their affinities are with genera presently placed in the Hookeriaceae. The naturalness of the Hookeriaceae is also questioned because so many diverse elements are placed in it.
10.2307/3241206|In cultured explants of Polytrichum sporophytes, capsule expansion requires light. Red light is more effective in promoting expansion than white, blue, or green light of equal energy. The increase in capsule dry weight is a linear function of the length of the explant in the absence of dextrose for all lengths tested, and also in the presence of dextrose over the range 10-40 mm. In the absence of dextrose, capsule gain is a linear function of weight loss in the seta over the range in seta lengths 10-40 mm. With dextrose present, capsule gain has a nonlinear relationship to seta loss because dextrose suppresses seta loss relatively more than it enhances capsule gain, with increasing length of the explant.
10.2307/3241012|Vertical distribution of cryptogams on five individuals of Acer rubrum was measured by actual coverage in quadrats encircling the trunk at heights of 1.5, 4, 7, and 10 m. Five lichens dominated: Parmelia caperata, P. physodes, P. rudecta, P. saxatilis, and P. sulcata. Parmelia sulcata had greater coverage than all the other species combined. All species showed distinct patterns of vertical distribution with mosses dominating below 1 m and lichens being most abundant between 4 and 7 m.
3244700| Two remarkable, new species from the Arctic are added to the terricolous Fuscopannaria praetermissa complex: F. abscondita P. M. Jrg., with apothecia hidden among the claviform squamules, from Svalbard and F. viridescens P. M. Jrg. & Zhurb. the first example of a species with a green photobiont in this genus, from Siberia and Alaska. 
10.2307/3242623|Three hundred and two taxa (283 species and 19 varieties) of mosses and 106 taxa (103 species, 2 subspecies, 1 variety) of hepatics and anthocerotes are recorded from Kentucky. Forty-one mosses and 10 hepatics are newly reported for the state.
3244687|Leptogium cellulosum and L. teretiusculum are much more frequent and widespread in the Pacific Northwest of North America than previously recognized. Leptogium cellulosum, formerly known from only a few sites, is now known from over 50 sites in the Pacific Northwest. We describe habitat and associated macrolichen and crustose lichen communities for these species. In addition, we examined morphological variation of L. cellulosum in the Pacific Northwest. Three widespread morphological variants of L. cellulosum occurred at similar percentages of plots sampled in northern Idaho. Leptogium teretiusculum is relatively constant in morphology, however it must be carefully distinguished from the terete morph of L. cellulosum.
10.2307/3242512| A study of available specimens of Globulinella has resulted in a realignment of some species and a significant range extension. Globulinella globifera (Hampe) Steere is reported for the first time to the United States. Gyroweisia benoistii Thr. is transferred to Globulinella and Gyroweisia obtusifolia Broth. is removed from synonymy. 
10.2307/3243455|Sporeling ontogeny of Monoclea gottschei Lindb. subsp. elongata Gradst. & Mues was determined using controlled germination experiments and a combination of optical and scanning electron microscopy. Germination is exosporic, without the formation of a germ tube, and early development is characterized by the formation of tiers of quadrants. While the apical tier remains undivided, subsequent orderly vertical and horizontal divisions in subapical tiers produce a bistratose discoid protonemal phase. After a brief period of protonemal expansion, a juvenile thallus apical cell with two lateral segmenting surfaces is delimited by unequal oblique divisions in one of the apical quadrants. The transformation of the bi- or tristratose ribbon-shaped juvenile thallus to adult thallus form is correlated with a modification in apical cell geometry and the appearance of an apical notch, which is overarched by club-shaped ventral slime cells. Similarities between early stages of sporeling development in Monoclea, Haplomitrium, and Fossombronia most likely reflect shared antiquity rather than close phylogenetic affinity, because subsequent cell patterning in Monoclea appears to be indicative of fundamental marchantioid affinities.
10.2307/3243860|One hundred and fifteen taxa of Parmeliaceae s.s. have been reported from the Hawaiian Islands. Thirty-seven species in 12 genera (Bulbothrix, Canoparmelia, Cetrelia, Flavoparmelia, Flavopunctelia, Hypotrachyna, Menegazzia, Parmelina, Parmotrema, Relicina, Rimelia, Xanthoparmelia) are currently accepted; 26 taxa remain unresolved. The species appear to be a random assortment of pantropical species with one or two exceptions. Only five species (13%) produce apothecia in Hawaii. In this treatment only three species are considered endemic, two of which are considered dubious species, a problem that requires further investigation; all others have been placed in synonymy with more widely distributed species. The exsiccate record of Cetrariastrum pseudonepalense is either an error or possibly the species has been extirpated. The report of Cetraria islandica is also concluded to be an error. Hypotrachyna longiloba (Magn.) C. W. Smith is a new combination. A key to the species is provided.
10.2307/3241424|Six hepatic and 27 moss taxa are added to the known flora of Mt. McKinley National Park, Alaska.
10.2307/3242772|Two hundred twelve taxa in 111 genera and 44 families are recorded for the Department of Valle, Colombia, based on field and herbarium studies and on literature reports. A total of 104 taxa is newly reported for the Department of Valle of which seven are new to Colombia: Andreaea acutifolia, Fissidens dissitifolius, F. reticulosus, Neckera spruceana, Rhynchostegium serrulatum, and Vesicularia vesicularis var. portoricensis.
10.2307/3241596|Nowellia reedii is described as new and N. caribbeania Fulf. is synonymized with N. evansii Grolle. A key is provided for the nine species of Nowellia known at present.
10.2307/3241643|Larvae of the lacewing (Nodita pavida) construct and carry trash packets consisting solely of lichens. Lepraria and Physcia have been identified in the packets.
40732271|Fissidens minutifrons is described and illustrated from Ecuador. The species belongs to subgenus Pachyfissidens section Pachyfissidens and is similar to F. grandifrons and F. geijskesii. The distinctive features of the species include: closely imbricate, narrowly lanceolate, elimbate leaves; taxifolius type costae; smooth laminal cells that vary from 2-4-stratose near the costae to 1-2-stratose at the margins in dorsal and ventral laminae, and 1-2-stratose from costae to margins in the vaginant laminae; laminal cells differing greatly in size, decreasing in size from costae to margins, juxtacostal cells and several inner rows larger and quadrate to oblong, several rows of outer (marginal) cells smaller and quadrate to hexagonal, the areas of larger inner cells and smaller outer cells greatest in the vaginant laminae.
10.2307/3243967|Eighty-one species of mosses are reported for Barro Colorado Island. The most important families in number of species are Hookeriaceae (17 spp.), Fissidentaceae (12 spp.), Calymperaceae (11 spp.), Pterobryaceae (6 spp.), Sematophyllaceae (6 spp.), Neckeraceae (5 spp.), Hypnaceae (5 spp.), and Meteoriaceae (5 spp.). Pleurocarpous forms predominate with equal numbers of Hypnobryales, Isobryales, and Hookeriales. The flora of the Isthmus, and thus of the Island, reflects the recent geological history of Panama and is considered to be derived from the already diverse moss flora of adjacent land masses.
10.2307/3243649|A total of 20 species of Caloplaca have been found to occur, obligately or occasionally, in the littoral and supralittoral zones on seashore rocks in continental North America. Eighteen species are marine to maritime and two are mainly inland species with occasional occurrence on the shore. On the west coast there are 16 species occurring on seashore rocks, while the east coast contains only five species. Europe and North America share 40% of the littoral species. A total of 12 species seem to be endemic to western North America. None of the 18 marine to maritime species is known to occur also in the southern hemisphere. A key, a short description for each of the treated species, and statement of their distribution is given. The species are also depicted in color photos.
3244797|Increasing awareness of the importance of bryophytes in ecosystems has heightened efforts to conserve rare bryophyte species. Understanding the factors that influence rarity in bryophytes thus becomes valuable in developing conservation strategies. In order to decipher these patterns of rarity in mosses, 141 sites were sampled from a variable landscape in the Okanogan Highlands of Washington State. We split the 209 moss species found into three frequency groups (rare, frequent, and common) based on occurrence information and compared these groups based on different attributes. Comparison of these species to known lists of the area shows that the dry interior of Washington is grossly understudied. Moss distribution patterns on a local scale reflect world distribution patterns and may be dictated by habitat availability. Rare species occur on fewer habitats and occur in habitats that are unique or restricted on the landscape. Further, they occur more often in restricted mesohabitats (e.g., streams, cliffs, fens) than they do in unrestricted mesohabitats (forested or non-forested uplands). Mesohabitats, thus, emerge as an appropriate level for a coarse filter approach to prioritizing conservation efforts for rare mosses by land managers.
40982994|Scleropodium australe is known from a single population in a suburb of Hobart, Tasmania and is the only southern hemisphere representative in an otherwise north temperate genus. It was originally segregated from S. cespitans based on two quantitative characters, median lamina cell width and relative costa length. Molecular data presented here (ITS, rps4, trnG, psbA2) indicate that S. australe is nested within a well supported clade of S. touretii. Morphological measurements also fail to demonstrate any differences between S. australe and S. touretii. Based on the lack of any molecular or morphological differences between these species and the single known station of the latter species at a ruderal site, S. australe is reduced to synonomy with S. touretii, with the interpretation that the Tasmanian population is introduced from Europe.
10.2307/3241998|Chromosome counts of 12 species of mosses are reported, including new reports for six taxa.
10.2307/3242563|Bryoerythrophyllum columbianum (Herm. & Lawt.) Zander is reported new to Bolivia and disjunct to its previously known range in eastern Oregon and Washington. The Bolivian collection is distinguished at the infraspecific level as B. columbianum var. atacamensis, Zander & Lewis. The steppe habitat of the Bolivian plants is compared to that of the western United States, and the possibility of wind dispersal of steppe mosses is discussed.
10.2307/3240695|The new species Lichinodium canadense is described, and some morphological details of L. ahlneria and L. sirosiphoideum are given for comparison.
10.2307/3242242|Well-developed elaterophores were observed in Metzgeria cylindra Kuwah. and M. laciniata Kuwah., both new species from Peru. The elaterophore forms a cylindrical structure of up to about 300 cells at the valve apex of the dehisced capsule and consists of two layers of cells structurally similar to the capsule wall. It is concluded that the elaterophore is an extended structure of the capsule wall. The elaterophore of the genus Aneura, which is a massive, long cylindrical sterile structure in the capsule, is also regarded as a continuation of the capsule wall. A schematic comparison of related structures is illustrated for the major genera which form a similar type of elater cluster, namely, Aneura, Metzgeria, Riccardia and Pellia. Terminology concerning the elaterophore has been inconsistent. It is suggested that the term elaterophore should be appropriately restricted to the distinct sterile structure to which clustered elaters are attached. The terms sessile elaters and free elaters are proposed for the elaters of two positions, that is, cluster-forming and free.
41289756|When originally described from deeply shaded banks in Malaysia and Borneo the thalloid liverwort Mizutania riccardioides was tentatively assigned to a new family in the Metzgeriales. However, phylogenetic inferences from sequence data indicate that it arose within the Calypogeiaceae. The present ultrastructural study of Mizutania reveals that a unique tripartite wall structure underlies the verrucose surface of the thalli. Outside an inner fibrillar layer, like that in other bryophytes, its middle stratum comprises closely packed lamellae. This recalls similar wall structures in blue iridescent pteridophytes and is most likely responsible for the same phenomenon. Unlike the rounded papillae contiguous with the outer wall layer in other liverworts, the outer part of the wall in Mizutania comprises irregular blocks of dense material, many of which become detached but remain embedded in a thick investiture of mucilage. These dense blocks contain high concentrations of aluminum and silicon; this is the first time that both these elements have been found co-localized in bryophytes. Mizutania has swollen, fungus-containing rhizoids similar to those of the Lepidoziaceae, Cephaloziaceae and Calypogeiaceae but unlike the last family, its gemmae are endogenous rather than exogenous. Whilst the fungal association is in line with the affinities determined from sequencing, its endogenous gemmae, unique wall structure and apical organization are robust morphological criteria for retaining a subfamial rank within the Calypogeiaceae.
10.2307/3243868|We conducted physiological, pharmacological, and chemical studies using tissue cultures derived from natural lichens. Cultured tissues of about 200 lichen species were initiated from vegetative thalli collected in various regions of the world. The cultures grew on both complex and defined media. Growth was significantly affected by temperature, as well as by carbon and nitrogen sources. Some tissue cultures produced secondary substances (i.e., depsidones and usnic acid), but most acetone extracts did not show the same patterns of TLC spots as the corresponding natural thalli. Some lichen tissue cultures produced more usnic acid than natural thalli. Several pharmacological activities were screened for both tissue cultures and natural lichens.
10.2307/3242277|In the Enterprise, Wisconsin, Radiation Forest thalli of Parmelia subaurifera Nyl. received varying doses of gamma radiation (
10.2307/3241068|Fifty-three species are reported from a region south of the eastern arm of Great Slave Lake where the bryology was previously unknown.
10.2307/3241621|Aloinella hamulus (C. Muell.) Bartr., Bryum ruderale Crundw. & Nyh., Hookeriopsis heteroica Card., and Philonotis marchica (Hedw.) Brid. are reported as new to Louisiana, and the presence in the state of Sematophyllum caespitosum (Hedw.) Mitt. is confirmed.
10.2307/3242029| Ramalina thrausta (Ach.) Nyl. occurs from approximately 62N to 48N latitude on the west coast and follows the boreal forest inland to the Great Lakes. On the east coast it has been collected from southern Quebec to Newfoundland. The species is uncommon throughout most of its distribution in North America and contains an unidentified substance close to divaricatic acid (or rarely no acids). 
10.2307/3243393|Lichens were collected at numerous localities in Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area and compared with species lists for Cuyahoga and Summit counties to document changes in the lichen flora since 1920. There are no historical collections from the park but habitats similar to those studied by early collectors are present in the park today. The present lichen flora has 65 species, including 34 new records for the area. Of the 151 species recorded for the two counties between 1895 and 1917, only 31 were found during this study (21%). None of the species most sensitive to sulfur dioxide were found, nor were any of the cyanophilic lichens reported earlier. The lichens remaining are often small and frequently with dead parts or distorted growth. Elemental analysis of Parmelia rudecta showed high sulfur levels. It is proposed that poor air quality has destroyed 79% of the historical lichen flora of the park. Thelidium parvulum Arn. is reported for the first time from North America.
10.2307/3241127| Leiocolea rutheana (Limpr.) C. Mll, is reported from northern Ellesmere Island, Northwest Territories, Canada, thereby considerably extending northward its known range. 
10.2307/3243078|The cover of corticolous bryophyte species was estimated on trees of seven species in three forest stands in Orange and Durham Counties, North Carolina, and bryophyte communities were compared using Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA), an ordination technique. Few bryophytes are restricted to a given tree species or forest, but different species of trees do tend to bear different bryophyte communities. There is also some differentiation of bryophyte communities according to site. However, DCA arranges bryophyte communities in different sites similarly, even when tree species shared between the sites are not included in the analysis. The bryophyte community patterns seen in this study are similar to patterns described previously in the literature for Wisconsin and the mountains of Virginia.
10.2307/3244206|Plagiochila emeiensis sp. nov. and P. sichuanensis sp. nov. are described and illustrated. Ten species are newly recorded from China-Plagiochila akiyamae Inoue, P. alata Inoue, P. cardotii Steph., P. cuspidata Steph., P. denticulata Mitt., P. harae Inoue, P. kurzii Steph., P. parviramifera Inoue, P. pseudopoeltii Inoue, and P. tagawae Inoue. Nine species names are newly placed in synonymy: P. formosae Steph. (= P. arbuscula (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Lindenb.), P. tongtschuana Steph., (= P. chinensis Steph.), P. wilsoniana Steph. (= P. chinensis Steph.), P. acutiloba Inoue (= P. ghatiensis Steph.), P. lacerata Steph. (= P. gollanii Steph.), P. torquescens Herzog (= P. hamulispina Herzog), P. determii Steph. (= P. subtropica Steph. 1900 [non Steph. 1903]), P. kitagawae Inoue (= P. subtropica Steph.), and P. pocsii Inoue (= P. trabeculata Steph.). A neotype is designated for Jungermannia arbuscula Lehm. & Lindenb. (= P. arbuscula (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Lindenb.). Lectotypes are designated for P. hamulispina Herzog, P. irrigata Herzog, P. kurzii Steph., P. subtropica Steph. 1900 (LT: Garden Collector 931, Herb Gottsche G-026051) + 1903 (LT: Garden Collector 932; G-026048) and P. torquescens Herzog.
3244750|Seedling establishment on iron mine tailings in New York State's Adirondack Park was studied to determine if cover by the bryophyte Polytrichum piliferum Hedw. facilitated or inhibited seed germination and seedling survival, relative to other substrates present on the site. The occurrence of vascular vegetation on the four most commonly occurring substrates (bare tailings, cryptogamic crust, grass litter, and Polytrichum piliferum) was compared. An association survey detected preferential association between vascular vegetation and cover of Polytrichum piliferum, particularly for winter annual and biennial species. Seeds of Panicum virgatum L. and Melilotus officinalis (L.) Pallas were experimentally sown onto the four natural substrates, as well as on artificial substrates designed to mimic bryophyte turf. Germination on Polytrichum turf exceeded that of other substrates. However, seedling survivorship was low on all substrates, with no seedling surviving past 13 wk. Shade treatment on natural substrates significantly increased germination and somewhat extended survival. The results suggest that Polytrichum cover acts as a safe site for species that germinate and establish in cooler weather. However, even experimental shading of moss turf does not ameliorate summer heat stress sufficiently to permit establishment of seeds that germinate in early summer.
10.2307/3243491|Spores released from two colonies of Atrichum angustatum (Brid.) Bruch & Schimp. in B.S.G. in North Carolina were sampled within a 15-m radius of each colony to determine the scale and pattern of dispersal. The density of recovered spores decreased inversely with increasing height and distance from the center of each colony. Of the counted spores, 94% fell within 2 m of the colony centers, and only 1% of the recovered spores were collected from the 15-m perimeter of the study areas. Nevertheless, when the increased volume of air associated with greater sampling distance was considered, 4.5 million and 2.4 million spores were estimated to have reached the limits of the study areas of colonies I and II, respectively. The total number of spores dispersed was estimated to be 69 million for colony I and 25.8 million for colony II. It is clear from our data that spore dispersal from an established population of mosses in a wooded area is not necessarily restricted to its immediate perimeter.
10.2307/3243752|The concentrations of chloroplast pigments were determined in current-year tissues of Sphagnum capillifolium (Ehrh.) Hedw. harvested at the end of the growing season in a bog in the southern Alps of Italy. Concentrations of both chlorophylls were highest in the midsummer segment. Concentrations of carotenoids were fairly stable, except in the spring segment, whereas chlorophyll derivatives (pheophytin, pheophorbide, and chlorophyllide) accumulated in the top segment, corresponding to the autumnal capitulum. This indicates a rapid degradation of chlorophyll, probably caused by nightly chilling, at the end of the growing season.
10.2307/3242903|The monotypic family Brevianthaceae, with Brevianthus flavus (Grolle) Engel & Schust., possesses a combination of distinctive features that taxonomically isolate it. Among these are: androecia and gynoecia restricted to highly abbreviated lateral-intercalary branches lacking normal leaves; under-leaves, or their vestiges, completely lacking; scattered rhizoids; undivided, succubously inserted leaves; strictly lateral-intercalary branching; capsule globose, with a 3-4 stratose wall; undifferentiated seta; and tuberculate to bacculate spores. The nearest ally of Brevianthaceae is Chonecoleaceae, the two constituting a separate new suborder, the Brevianthineae Engel & Schust. The suborder appears to have a Gondwanalandic origin; Brevianthus is endemic to Tasmania.
3244841| The new species, Fuscopannaria globigera Fryday & P. M. Jrg, is described, Catillaria jemtlandica is transferred to Megalaria with Lecidea sublimosa included as a synonym, and Pyrenocollema bryospilum is transferred to Collemopsidium. Epigloea medioincrassata and Lecidea haerjedalica are recorded for the first time from North America and Arthonia lapidicola, Caloplaca spitsbergensis, C. variabilis, Dactylospora deminuta, and Rhizocarpon lecanorinum are documented for the first time from Alaska. 
10.2307/3242492|The nomenclatural history of Dicranum condensatum Hedwig is discussed and Hedwig's name is shown to be valid over the name D. sabuletorum Renauld & Cardot according to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature. The reasons for the historic confusion, which are based on Hedwig's erroneous plate 34, are explained and Hedwig's specimen is confirmed to be the holotype. A list of synonymy and a distribution map are also provided.
10.2307/3242340| An analysis of 80% ethanol-soluble carbohydrates and polyols (polyhydric alcohols) from the lichens Ramalina stenospora Mll. Arg. and R. complanata (Sw.) Ach., was made by means of a high-pressure liquid chromatographic method. Two chromatographic columns, Bondapak carbohydrate and Aminex Q-150S, were used to effect the analysis. Of the two columns used the Bondapak column was found to resolve the larger number of carbohydrates from synthetic mixtures; however, the Aminex Q-150S column was required for resolution of mannitol-glucose-sorbitol and arabitol-ribitol complexes. Aminex Q-150S was more efficient in the separation of polyols than monosaccharides. Utilization of high-pressure liquid chromatography was found to be a rapid, sensitive method for analysis of carbohydrates and polyols routinely found in lichen extracts. It has the desirable features of small sample size, recoverable fractions, rapidity and ease of quantification of lichen metabolites. 
10.2307/3243944|Twenty-one moss species new to Montana are reported and their distribution patterns in North America are noted.
10.2307/3244054|The discovery of a Tornabea in California and Mexico brought the authors to critically compare the two currently accepted species of the genus, T. scutellifera (Old World) and T. ephebea (South America), based on the anatomical and morphological analysis of 98 samples. The results show that the morpho-anatomy of T. ephebea lies within the range of variation of the highly polymorphic T. scutellifera. The two taxa are conspecific and the former name is consequently a synonym of the latter. The species is new to the U.S. and Mexico. A distribution map based on specimens studied and on literature records is presented; T. scutellifera has a broad, but disjunct distribution in semi-arid areas with frequent periods of high air humidity, including Europe (with a Mediterranean-Atlantic range), North Africa, southwestern Asia, California, Mexico, western Chile, and Peru. The species is often associated with a member of the Teloschistes villosus complex - T. villosus s. str. in the Old World and T. californicus in the New World. The latter species is reported as new to South America (Chile).
41486717|The west coast endemic, Blepharostoma arachnoideum, is so infrequently encountered that its status as a species distinct from B. trichophyllum has been held in doubt. Despite its rarity, it displays a consistent set of vegetative characters, which may be used to separate it from all forms of B. trichophyllum. Blepharostoma trichophyllum subsp. brevirete y a form that intergrades with typical subsp. trichophyllum, has often been confused with B. arachnoideum. Blepharostoma arachnoideum is presently known from only 25 sites from northwestern California to southwestern British Columbia. Mature perianths have only recently been found in B. arachnoideum and are illustrated here and compared with perianths of B. trichophyllum.
10.2307/3242472|Strong segregation of sexes in populations of Atrichum angustatum (Brid.) B.S.G. is attributed to vegetative proliferation of unisexual clones. The distribution of gamete dispersal distances in this moss is highly leptokurtic, with a mean of 2.11 cm and an observed maximum of 11.0 cm. Overall shoot density is 4.6 per cm
10.2307/3242020| The ultrastructure of Leptogium cyanescens Ach. Krb. and its cultured phycobiont, Nostoc commune Vauch., were examined using scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Scanning electron microscopy showed that the isidia break at the point of contact with the thallus, suggesting a possible dehiscence mechanism. Transmission electron microscopy showed that isidia are surrounded by a cortical layer of fungal cells; internally, isidia contain algal and fungal cells interdispersed in an amorphous matrix. The lichen gelatine was found to consist of four layers on both the upper surface and the lower surface of the lichen thallus. Cells of the inner portion of the thallus were found to be dispersed in an amorphous matrix which is continuous with layer four of the gelatine. The ultrastructure of lichenized and cultured Nostoc commune was compared. A tubular array previously unreported was found in cells of the phycobiont. Cultured cells contain numerous paracrystalline structures and a membrane-bounded inclusion. 
10.2307/3242669|Sporeling development in Fossombronia cristula differs from that of other Metzgeriales in that it involves the immediate rupture of the sporoderm along the triradiate marking, the early development of a tetrahedral apical cell, and the production of a first series of leaves composed of two lateral and one ventral leaf In the early stages of development the sporeling stands upright but with maturation it assumes a prostrate habit. Accompanying this change in orientation is a reduction in and eventual loss of the ventral cutting face of the apical cell. This transformation from a tetrahedral to a lenticular cell is completed after the first series of leaves has been produced so that all subsequent leaves are arranged in two rows. Phylogenetically, this pattern implies that the lenticular cell of Fossombronia was derived from the tetrahedral cell and that the two-ranked habit is the more specialized.
10.2307/3241962| As a result of a revisionary study of the Orthotrichaceae in Mexico, Orthotrichum hortonae Vitt sp. nov., Macromitrium sharpii Crum ex Vitt sp. nov., Groutiella chimborazense subsp. reesei Vitt subsp. nov. and Florschuetziella steerei Vitt gen. et sp. nov. are described as new. Macromitrium punctatum (Hook. & Grev.) Brid. is the earliest name for, and taxonomically synonymous with, Macromitrium brachyrhynchum (Schwaegr.) Schimp. ex C.Mll. and Macromitrium pentastichum C.Mll., while M. contextum Hampe appears to be the correct name for the species that most recent authors have called M. punctatum. Macromitrium pringlei Card. is taxonomically synonymous with Macrocoma frigida (C.Mll.) Vitt, with the latter species new to Mexico. Leiomitrium standleyi (Bartr. in Grout) Grout is a taxonomic synonym of L. scaberrimum (Broth.) Wijk & Marg. and is placed in the genus Macrocoma as M. scaberrimum (Broth.) Vitt n. comb. Groutiella tumidula (Mitten) Vitt n. comb. is considered the correct name for those specimens of the Groutiella mucronifolia-apiculata complex with broad leaves and small mucronate apices; G. apiculata is the correct name for populations with narrower leaves and longer apiculate apices, with G. mucronifolia (Hook. & Grev.) Crum & Steere synonymous with the latter name. A numerical analysis is presented as evidence for the specific distinction of G. tumidula and G. apiculata. Groutiella undosa (Card.) Crum & Steere is a taxonomic synonym of G. chimborazense, whereas G. wagneriana (C.Mll.) Crum & Steere is a separate taxon not found in Mexico. 
10.2307/3242756|The delimitation of the genus is discussed and a key and illustrations are provided for all species. A third species, Sphaerothecium subchlorophyllosum (C. Muell. ex Rabenh.) J.-P. Frahm from South Africa is added to the genus.
10.2307/3243048|The growth rates of Pseudocyphellaria homoeophylla (Nyl.) Dodge and Sticta caperata Bory in Nyl. were calculated from sequential photographs taken during a two-year period. The mean annual radial increases of both species were linearly related to thallus diameter and ranged from 2.0 to 27.0 mm and 3.0 to 16.7 mm, respectively.
10.2307/3241289|Polytrichum alpinum and Pylaisiella polyantha are reported from Mexico for the first time. The former species is wide-ranging while the latter occurs primarily in more northern latitudes.
3244618| Schistidium is the richest moss genus in the Antarctic consisting of twelve species, one of which, S. deceptionense Ochyra, Bednarek-Ochyra, & Lewis Smith, is here described as new to science from the volcanic Deception Island in the South Shetland Islands archipelago in the northern maritime Antarctic. Its most peculiar diagnostic characters are strongly thickened walls of the exothecial cells; small, cupalate, and pachydermous capsules; and sinuouse laminal cells. In these features the new species shows the closest affinity to S. urnulaceum (Mll. Hal.) B. G. Bell, a South Georgian-Antarctic endemic, from which it can be distinguished by sharply keeled leaves, stout costae that are semi-terete in transverse section and strongly convex dorsally, bistratose leaf margins in 1-2 rows of cells forming bulging thickenings in the distal portion, shorter laminal cells, and larger spores. The relationships of S. deceptionense are discussed and the species is considered to belong to the Confertum group with which it shares pellucid alar region of the hyaline cells with the transverse walls much thicker than the longitudinal walls, narrow upper laminal cells, irregular and mostly strongly perforated peristome teeth, and yellow reaction of the upper leaves and leaf cells with KOH. A key to all species of Schistidium in the Antarctic is given. 
10.2307/3242643|Bryophyte community structure was studied in ten streams in the Adirondack Mountains of New York and adjacent areas over an elevation range of 625 m. Species composition, including frequency and cover and possible niche parameters including elevation, water temperature, pH, flow rate, incident light, substrate type and height above or depth below water level were measured. An ordination was done of the ten streams, and species diversity, niche breadth and niche overlap were calculated. Elevation and stream flow were important for niche separation between streams. Height and type of substrate including rock size were important niche parameters within streams. Characteristic height segregation was seen within streams for many species including several co-occurring members of the Brachytheciaceae and two morphological forms of Hygrophypnum ochraceum. The communities included 28 mosses, seven hepatics and one aquatic lichen.
10.2307/3241493|Gametophytes from Victoria Land were tested in the laboratory at McMurdo Station, Antarctica. Net photosynthetic and respiratory rates were determined by measuring oxygen exchange in air containing 1% CO
10.2307/3243347|One hundred and sixty-three taxa of foliose and fruticose lichens are reported from three regions of the Canadian Arctic. The northernmost collecting region, and that with the most severe climate, is the Thomsen River valley on Banks Island. Also included are the Hood River valley, entirely north of the arctic treeline, and the Coppermine River valley, which flows northward through the forest-tundra border. Newly reported for Banks Island are Cladonia alaskana, Peltigera rufescens, Solorina bispora, S. saccata, and Vulpicida pinastri. Of these five, C. alaskana and V. pinastri have not previously been reported on any of the arctic islands. The macrolichen flora of these areas consists primarily of wide-ranging arctic-alpine and arctic-boreal species.
10.2307/3242957| Artificial induction of sex organs in Targionia hypophylla L. has been studied with respect to several physical and chemical factors. High moisture contents and low light intensity favor vegetative growth. Growth regulators have an insignificant effect on the induction of sex organs. Sex organs are readily induced at 22  3C temperature along with incandescent lighting for 12 h. Furthermore, the low temperature (13C), maintained in the dark is more effective in the induction of archegonia. These favorable results are obtained only in presence of 1% sucrose in the culture media. It is presumed that a hypothetical chemical substance named "bryonin" is synthesized from sucrose-like precursors under low temperature and dark conditions in T. hypophylla. 
3244588|The majority of dioecious plants are not sexually dimorphic until the onset of reproductive maturation. The inability to identify sex in pre-reproductive plants limits sex-related studies in plant populations. Molecular techniques to identify sex in seed plants have had increasing success. However, sex-specific markers in bryophytes have not yet been found. Bryophytes can be effective model systems in understanding the reproductive biology of plant species with unisexual individuals, as well as the molecular biology of sex chromosomes and sex determination. This study was specifically designed to find sex-specific markers in Sphaerocarpos texanus. The study relied on the Polymerase Chain Reaction procedure to amplify arbitrary regions of genomic DNA to locate sex-specific markers. Bulk segregant analysis using 238 decanter primers, and involving a single full-sibling pedigree was used to identify sex-specific markers. Inheritance of specific markers by male or female individuals was tested in progeny derived from two mated pairs involving individuals in the pedigree. Consistency of the markers was tested with individuals outside the original pedigree in the same population as well as with individuals from a distant population. Four markers were found-three specific to females and one specific to males.
25614900|Hypogymnia hengduanensis, previously known only from southwestern mainland China, is reported for the first time from Taiwan and Japan. So far it is the only species of Hypogymnia with rimmed holes to be found east of the Hengduan Mountain region of China. Also new to Taiwan are Hypogymnia stricta and H. subarticulata. A key is provided for species of Hypogymnia from Taiwan.
40732268|This study provides the first report that Sphagnum mendocinum (Sphagnum section Cuspidata) and S. papillosum (Sphagnum section Sphagnum) are allopolyploids. Sphagnum mendocinum is an intersectional allopolyploid, with parental species from Sphagnum sections Cuspidata and Subsecunda. It is the third intersectional alloploid species reported for Sphagnum. The gametophytically allodiploid cytotype of S. papillosum was detected in Europe, North America, and Japan. It appears to be the predominant, if not the only, cytotype for this species. Our results may warrant re-examination of the report of a haploid (n = x) cytotype for S. papillosum.
10.2307/3244077|Coscinodon calyptratus (Drumm.) Kindb., previously considered endemic to western North America, is reported from the Himalayas and Kazakstan in Asia, Armenia in Caucasus and the South Island of New Zealand. The species is autoicous, not dioicous as commonly stated.
10.2307/3240838|An account is given of the methods and equipment used to make a motion picture of the life cycle of Marchantia polymorpha. In the resulting film a rotation of the fertilized egg cell was demonstrated by time-lapse photography, and the spermatozoid was shown to have a ball-shaped appendage at the apex of the flagella.
10.2307/3241780|Rhabdoweisia crispata and Isopterygium muellerianum are reported for the first time from Greenland with a description of their habitats. The world distributions are mapped. The occurrence of Ceratodon purpureus, Leptobryum pyriforme, Bryum argenteum, Tortula ruralis, and Splachnum vasculosum is correlated with past and present human activity in the area. The rare species Trematodon brevicollis, Cnestrum alpestre, Campylopus schimperi, and Plagiopus oederi are reported.
10.2307/3242845|The Sorapillaceae has been placed by some authors either near the Fissidentaceae or in the Eubryales suborder Rhizogoniineae because of its peculiar leaf structure closely resembling that of the Fissidentaceae and what was apparently a single peristome. Examination of the peristomes of Sorapilla sprucei Mitt. and S. papuana Broth. & Geh. revealed that the peristome is double and reduced. On the basis of the reduced double peristome, pseudoparaphyllia, complanate leaves, immersed lateral sporophytes, pleurocarpous habit, elongated basal cells in the leaves, and a sparsely hairy calyptra, a placement of the Sorapillaceae in the Isobryales near the Neckerineae, as advocated by Fleischer, is correct.
10.2307/3244183|Orthotrichum shevockii from dry granitic boulders in the southern Sierra of California is described as a new species belonging to subgen. Pulchella (Schimp.) Vitt sect. Diaphana Vent. It grows in small, dark green to blackish tufts and is characterized by having highly papillose leaf cells, bi- to tristratose leaf margins, immersed to shortly emergent capsules, double peristomes without prostomes, with 8 exostome teeth, and 8 or 16 endostome segments, and strongly hairy calyptra with papillose hairs.
10.2307/3243465| Thalli of two epiphytic lichens, Lobaria oregana (Tuck.) Mll. Arg. and Pseudocyphellaria rainierensis Imsh., were collected from the canopy of an old-growth forest. Thalli were individually attached to nylon monofilament and transplanted into the crowns of four trees, two growing in the forest interior and two growing on the edge of a clear cut, at heights between 35 and 45 m above the ground. Half of the transplants in each tree were derived from thalli collected in the interior and half were derived from thalli collected on the edge. After one year, L. oregana transplants grew significantly less on the edge than they grew in the interior. The source of P. rainierensis thalli significantly affected transplant growth rate. Thalli that came from the interior and were transplanted to the edge did not grow, on average, while thalli that came from the edge and were transplanted back to the edge grew well. 
3244769|A description is given of the liverwort Scapania hoffeinsiana Grolle, sp. nov. with perianth and capsule from Bitterfeld amber (probably Eocene), the first fossil record of the Scapaniaceae from the Tertiary since 1886.
10.2307/3242673| Pseudoleskeella papillosa (Lindb.) Kindb. has been found for the first time in eastern North America, in the province of Qubec (Canada). The occurrence of this rare arctic species so far south of its known range and near an area that may have served as a glacial refugium deserves notice. 
10.2307/3242735|Recently collected specimens of the lichen Flavoparmelia baltimorensis from Shenandoah National Park in Virginia, especially those from higher elevations, contain higher concentrations of sulfur, and lower concentrations of lead than specimens collected from the same sites at various times in the past. These results suggest long-term increases in regional sulfur pollution and a corresponding decline in lead pollution.
10.2307/3242177|One hundred species and three varieties of mosses are reported from the Fraser Canyon, northern Labrador. Taxa previously unreported for Labrador are: Brachythecium curtum, Grimmia agassizii, G. donniana, G. funalis, G. torquata, Hygrohypnum dilatatum, II. eugyrium, Hylocomium splendens var. obtusifolium, Mielichhoferia mielichhoferi, Plagiobryum zierii, Pohlia longicolla, Polytrichum commune var. maximoviczii, Rhacomitrium ericoides and Timmia austriaca.
43188729|While the distribution and ranges of arctic plants were greatly affected by the advance and retreat of ice sheets, the impact of glacial and interglacial cycles on lichenized fungi remains largely unexplored. In this study we examine the impact of Pleistocene climatic changes on two closely related Xanthomendoza (Teloschistaceae, Ascomycota) species with distinct distribution patterns and reproductive strategies. We selected X. borealis, which occurs in polar regions of both hemispheres, and the corticolous X. montana, which is restricted to montane shrublands in western North America. We analyzed the complete nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) to confirm the monophyly and relative ages of X. borealis and X. montana. We estimated molecular diversity and population demographics statistics, mismatch distributions, and Bayesian skyline plots for both species. Our data indicate that X. montana experienced a Late Pleistocene population expansion. We suggest that major shifts in vegetation types as a result of Pleistocene climate change had a substantial impact on distribution patterns and the demographic history of X. montana. In contrast, results from this study indicate that the demographic history of X. borealis is consistent with long-term stability, although low genetic variability in the ITS marker for X. borealis limits overall confidence in this inference. We propose that X. borealis has been able to maintain a stable population size across climatic shifts, likely through effective dispersal to suitable habitats and suggests that climatic conditions during Pleistocene glacial cycles were not inherently unfavorable or restrictive for some high altitude/latitude lichen-forming fungal species. Investigating mating systems for these two Xanthomendoza species may provide important insights about the factors affecting population demographics and reproduction in lichen-forming fungi in general.
3244803|Bacidia iberica, a new epiphytic species, is described from central and southern Spain. It is closely related to Bacidia rubella (Hoffm.) A. Massal. The most important differences are in thallus morphology. Bacidia iberica has a squamulose thallus and whitish to greenish gray ascending squamules, whereas B. rubella has a granular thallus. In addition, B. iberica has slightly paler apothecia than B. rubella. Spore length, width, and length/width ratio are significantly different for the two species.
3244333|Three taxa of pyrenocarpous lichens from the Sonoran Region are described as new: Placidium lacinulatum var. erythrostratum is characterized by a reddish medullary layer and broadly ellipsoidal ascospores. It is known from Arizona, California, and Mexico. Placopyrenium insuetum from Mexico is recognized by its rosulate, brown, epruinose thallus. Verrucaria rubrocincta, yet known only from Arizona and Mexico, is characterized by an endolithic thallus and a reddish pigmented, dimidiate involucrellum.
10.2307/3242352|A common Ramalina in eastern North America previously called R. fastigiata (Pers.) Ach., is described as a new species, R. americana Hale. The typical population contains only usnic acid, but a number of chemical variants occur in southeastern United States.
10.2307/3243108|The foliose lichen Bulbothrix isidiza (Nyl.) Hale, a pantropical species, was recently reported new to North America north of Mexico. Specimens from North Carolina, Florida and Louisiana indicate it has a wide distribution in the southeastern United States coastal plain.
10.2307/3240746| New records for individual islands are Trematodon latinervis C. Mll., Holomitrium squarrifolium Bartr., Anoectangium euchloron (Schwaegr.) Mitt., Funaria subintegra Broth., Rhizogonium pungens Sull., Aerobryopsis scariosa Bartr., Claopodium nervosum (Harv.) Fleisch., and Eurhynchium selaginellifolium (C. Mll.) Bartr. A key, based on characteristics of the laminal areolation, to the Hawaiian species of Philonotis is provided. 
10.2307/3241091|The new species Ramalina paludosa is a small caespitose plant occurring sporadically throughout Florida on Taxodium distichum in swamps. It is morphologically and chemically distinct from the other species of Ramalina in Florida.
3244154|The classification of the Bryopsida (mosses) has been based primarily on the variation of sporophytic characters i.e., architectural features of the peristome teeth that line the capsule mouth. Five arthrodontous peristome types have been recognized. Whether peristome types define natural groups and how they are evolutionary related has, however, remained unclear. Nucleotide sequence data from one nuclear and two chloroplast loci are generated and compiled to test two contrasting hypotheses regarding the ancestral peristome type in the Arthrodonteae. The genomic data partitions are incongruent with regard to the phylogenetic signal they carry. All phylogenetic analyses converge toward the polyphyly of the Funariineae and the Funariaceae. The Funariaceae are defined by the loss of a codon in the rps4 gene. Goniomitrium acuminatum, the type of the genus, lacks this deletion, and is always resolved within the Haplolepideae. Consequently Goniomitrium is transferred to the Pottiaceae. The Ephemeraceae and Splachnobryaceae are tentatively retained as distinct, but with strong affinities to the Pottiineae. Neither the combined nor the independent data sets yield well supported topologies under the parsimony optimality criterion. Hence, the relationships among major lineages remain ambiguous. Inferences from chloroplast data alone yield a basal dichotomy between taxa with alternate peristomes (Orthotrichales and Bryales sensu lato) and those with opposite peristomes (Encalyptineae, Disceliaceae, Funariaceae, Timmiaceae, and the Haplolepideae). In contrast, analyses of the combined data resolve the Timmiaceae as sister to the split between the two peristomial lineages. It is hypothesized that the symmetric divisions of the IPL cells, is a synapomorphy for at least the Encalyptineae-Funariineae clade. The endostomial appendages of the timmiaceous peristome could, under either phylogenetic hypothesis, be regarded as homologous to the cilia in the bryoid peristome. Although the relationships among major lineages of arthrodontous mosses remain ambiguous, this study suggests that taxa with reduced or no peristomes, such as the Disceliaceae and the Gigaspermaceae, may be crucial in resolving the early evolutionary history of the Arthrodonteae when using DNA sequences.
10.2307/3242042|The thickened lateral walls of the hydroids of Dendroligotrichum are morphologically and histochemically distinct from the hydrolyzed end walls. The evidence presented indicates the existence of encrusting materials in the thickened lateral walls. Controversy exists as to whether or not these encrusting compounds are lignins. Histochemical evidence at both the light and electron microscope level demonstrates the phenolic nature of these compounds.
10.2307/3242529|Three mosses and five hepatics are added to the bryoflora of Macquarie Island. A checklist of the bryophytes of the island is included.
10.2307/3243489| The description of Megaceros aenigmaticus Schust., briefly treated in Schuster (1992), is enhanced. Two phenotypes (both lacking visible gametangia) were collected in 1952: a) a weakly to moderately frilled-margined, closely pinnatifid to pinnate phase and b) an entire-margined phase, often remotely 2-3-pinnate, with very narrow ultimate pinnae, mimicking a large Riccardia multifida or R. chamedryfolia. Both phases had only solitary chloroplasts of dorsal epidermal cells. It was tentatively concluded that a distinct species of Anthoceros was at hand, the single chloroplasts seeming to exclude Megaceros (to which phase a bore some resemblances). Lack of gametangia and sporophytes precluded resolution of both generic provenance and of whether one or two intermingled taxa were at hand; the plant has remained "in limbo" for forty years. A preliminary account by Renzaglia and Hicks (1984) of a third phenotype appeared: c) a  phase with frilled thallus margins, bearing 1-4 epidermal chloroplasts per cell. The question arose: are these phases members of one species, and to what genus do they belong? In October 1987, mass collections were made in order to find  plants and sporophytes and to try to resolve whether all these enigmatic plants belonged to one or more species. Among thousands of plants collected from several stations, a fourth phenotype was found: d) vigorous  plants with strikingly lobulate-laciniate and crispulate thallus margins, with dorsal epidermal cells with either paired or single dumbbell-shaped chloroplasts. This variability-from Anthoceros- like to Megaceros-like epidermal cells-and gross variability in four other criteria: a) development, or lack thereof, of endogenous slime cells; b) presence or absence of Nostoc symbionts; c) number of cells delimiting the mouth of the archegonium; and d) number of cells peripheral to the ventral gametophytic stomata, are subject to in-depth investigation. It is concluded that a single, strikingly malleable species of Megaceros is at hand, differing from all well-known taxa of that primarily antipodal genus in being unisexual and relying on fragmentation and regenerant-formation for its dispersal. The assumption is documented that reduction to sterile and purely  clonal populations, isolated in limited environments in western North Carolina to South Carolina, along small rills, is probably a recent (surely post-Oligocene, perhaps post-Pliocene) phenomenon. Extinction of the  sex is shown to be matched in a number of other cases in the Appalachian system. 
10.2307/3241448|Six species of hepatics are reported as additions to the flora of the Pickle Springs region of southeast Missouri. Three of them, Calypogeia muelleriana (Schiffn.) K. Muller, Cephalozia connivens (Dicks.) Spruce, and Pellia endiviaefolia (Dicks.) Dum., are reported for the first time from Missouri. While most of these additions fall within expected distribution patterns, the presence of P. endiviaefolia in southeast Missouri represents a considerable range extension or disjunction.
10.2307/3242354|Xanthoparmelia arida Egan & Derstine from west Texas is described as new and represents the primary fertile morphotype of the previously described isidiate taxon X. joranadia (Nash) Hale. X. lecanorica (Hale) Hale is removed from the North American lichen flora.
10.2307/3241867|Eurhynchium hians (Hedw.) Sande-Lac. was the dominant of six species of mosses found within three forested flood plain stands along the Hocking River near Athens, Ohio. Low light levels (<10% full sunlight) during the summer, caused by a dense cover of vegetation, and occasional flooding enhances protonemal growth. Regeneration of these mosses from fragments of leafy gametophytes was tested in the laboratory. Regrowth from buried plants and fragments of plants emerged through deposits of alluvium up to 10 cm thick. Regeneration and emergence from burial by alluvium seem to be important modes of establishment of terrestrial mosses on flood plains.
10.2307/3241846|Sixty-five taxa of mosses are reported from the Piedmont National Wildlife Refuge in Jones and Jasper Counties, Georgia. This is the first intensive study on mosses from central Georgia.
10.2307/3243874| The lichen genus Pseudohepatica (Lichenized Ascomycotina) is described from Venezuela based on a single species, P. pachyderma P. M. Jrg., a most unusual lichen with a thallus resembling a leafy hepatic. The anatomy is very specialized, dominated by a voluminous dense cortex. Also the secondary chemistry, although not fully understood, appears to be unusual, with substances in the norlichexanthone group. Since the material is sterile the systematic position of the genus is uncertain. 
40732261|Fifty white fir, red fir, incense cedar, Jeffrey pine and sugar pine were surveyed for corticolous bryophytes and macrolichens in the Teakettle Experimental Forest. Epiphyte abundances were estimated by percent cover in 5 m strata from ground-level to tree-tops. Gradients of bark pH within tree species and stand-level vapor pressure deficit (VPD) were also measured. Mosses had a strong positive association with white fir and proximity to perennial water. Clustering of trees in macrolichen space resulted in four significant groups: white fir, red fir, incense cedar, and Pinus. The lichens Ahtiana sphaerosporella and Letharia indicated the red fir group, Hypogymnia imshaugii and Melanelia elegantula the white fir group, and Nodobryoria oregana the Pinus group. Two nitrophilous lichens, Xanthoria polycarpa and Candelariella efflorescent were strongly positively associated with white fir, and absent from the Pinus species. Bark pH distinguished presence/absence of moss and composition of macrolichens among tree groups, while increasing VPD with height best explained within-group community structure. To foster epiphyte richness and diversity in this mixed-conifer forest, a heterogeneous mix of mature tree species should be retained when thinning, and mature trees in the narrowly confined riparian zone should not be harvested.
10.2307/3242078| The highly O-methylated orcinol para-depside planaic acid known from Lecidea lithophila (Ach.) Ach. and L. plana (Lahm in Krb.) Nyl. is accompanied by 4-O-demethylplanaic acid in all specimens examined by thin-layer chromatography. Some specimens of L. lithophila produce 4-O-demethylplanaic acid as the major secondary substance. Correlations of spore shape, spore volume and chemistry give a clear separation of L. lithophila, L. lithophilopsis Nyl. and L. plana from an unresolved aggregate including L. leptoboloides Nyl. 4-O-Demethylplanaic acid was known from previous laboratory synthesis, but an earlier report of it as a natural product from Stereocaulon ramulosum (Sw.) Rusch. appears to be an error. High-performance liquid chromatography can detect 4-O-demethylplanaic and planaic acids in samples as small as single apothecia. 
10.2307/3241826|This treatment completes the study of the Hookeriaceae in the Greater Antilles, where the family is represented by 19 genera, 68 species, and one variety. Five of the seven species which occur in the United States have been seen from the Greater Antilles. Hookeria lucens (Hedw.) Smith and Hookeriopsis heteroica Card. are the exceptions. Taxa not treated previously in this series are described and illustrated. The keys include all the taxa. This paper treats 18 genera and 61 species. Of these, four genera and 26 species have not been included in previous papers in this monographic series on the Hookeriaceae.
10.2307/3242560|A pale yellow crustose lichen collected on calcareous soil or peat in numerous Canadian arctic or alpine localities was found to be a new species. It resembles, in some respects, Lecidea vernalis, L. pallida and L. alpestris, but is best classified as a Lecanora related to L. symmicta on the basis of its production of usnic acid and zeorin, its narrowly ellipsoid spores and on anatomical features of the apothecium. The new species has been mistaken for Lecanora pachythallina Lynge, a lobate species. Lecanora superfluens H. Magn. is shown to be conspecific with L. pachythallina. Lecanora ochraceorubescens Arn. in Eckf is a closely related saxicolous species.
10.2307/3242215|Anaktuvuk Pass in the central Brooks Range of northern Alaska provides a major migration route for the western arctic caribou herd. A portion of the herd overwintered in the Anaktuvuk Pass area 8 years prior to sampling. Caribou grazing resulted in the almost complete removal of macrolichens in grazed areas and this has been followed by the invasion of crustose and squamulose species. An analysis by species biomass composition for grazed and nongrazed areas on both north and south slope exposures revealed a lichen composition of 31 species, with Cladonia stellaris, C. rangiferina, C. arbuscula and C. mitis being the most common and present in almost equal abundance on both exposures. In addition, 288 species in 71 genera are reported for the Anaktuvuk Pass area. Aspicilia plicigera (Zahlbr.) Thoms. is reported as a new combination and new to North America.
10.2307/3240623|Chromosome studies were made of ten species of mosses, representing nine genera and nine families. The chromosome numbers of three species are reported for the first time, namely Ditrichum lineare (Sw.) Lindb., n = 14; Haplocladium virginianum (Brid.) Broth., n = 11; and Brachythecium plumosum (Hedw.) B.S.G., n = 11. Other species in which numbers are recorded are Dicranum fuscescens Turn., n = 12; Bryum capillare Hedw., n = 20; Bryum gemmiparum DeNot., n = 10; Orthotrichum cupulatum (Hoffm.) Brid., n = 11; Clasmatodon parvulus (Hampe) Sull., n = 11; and Amblystegium juratzkanum Schimp., n = 12. A sporophytically diploid race of Bryum gemmiparum is reported and the population of Amblystegium juratzkanum with the number, n = 12, differs from other reports of this species from North America. The application of chromosome information to the systematics of several species is discussed and reference is made to the possible significance of m-chromosomes in specific distinctions.
41486744|The Hypogymnia austerodes group is an assemblage of mostly boreal and arctic-alpine lichens traditionally comprising three wide-ranging sorediate and/or isidiate species, H austerodes, H. bitten and H. subobscura. Here we describe four additional members of this group - H dichroma sp. nov., H. protea sp. nov., H. salsa sp. nov. and H. verruculosa sp. nov. - which have until now been treated within H austerodes s. lat. Our new species are primarily epiphytic, and are currently known only from Cordilleran western North America. They differ from other members of the H. austerodes group both morphologically and in their virtually consistent production of apinnatic acid. Hypogymnia protea is by far the most variable of the new species, uniting two putative taxa here designated as morphs "disjuncta" and "tessellata". Reliable discrimination of the segregate species requires careful attention to their vegetative reproductive structures, which are described in detail. A key to all treated species and their recognized morphs is provided. Earlier reports of H. farinacea from western North America appear to be based on schizidiate material of H protea morph "tessellata". Whether H. farinacea actually occurs in North America remains an open question.
10.2307/3241889|Twenty-seven stands representing eight major vegetation types in Cape Breton Highlands National Park were examined to estimate terrestrial and epiphytic lichen biomass. The greatest terrestrial lichen dry weight measured was over 790 g/m
10.2307/3244030|Bruchia brevifolia Sull. is reported for the first time from Alabama.
3244947| We counted rotifers within lobules of an epiphytic liverwort (Frullania eboracensis subs. eboracensis). Of 81 plants marked in the summer of 2001, 44 were female, 17 male, and 20 nonexpressing. Nonexpressing plants were significantly smaller than expressing plants. An ANCOVA revealed a non-significant or marginally significant tendency for the proportion of rotiferoccupied lobules to differ among male, female, and nonexpressing plants (p  0.09). Nonexpressing plants tended to have the greatest proportion of occupied lobules. We hypothesized that nonexpressing plants were younger than expressing plants. We investigated this pattern further by sampling from the interior and the edges of plants, knowing that the exterior of the plant is younger than the interior. In two separate experiments on different plants, a significantly greater proportion of exterior than interior lobules contained rotifers 
10.2307/3242779|Three lichens, Calicium hyperelloides, Nadvornikia hawaiensis, and Tylophoron protrudens are reported as new to the continental United States. All specimens were collected in Florida in 1985.
10.2307/3242902|Respiration in fully hydrated corticolous lichen thalli of Ramalina stenospora and R. complanata is insensitive to azide and only slightly sensitive to cyanide. The combination of cyanide and salicylhydroxamic acid results in severe reduction of oxygen uptake. Neither salicylhydroxamic acid, an alternate terminal oxidase inhibitor, nor propyl gallate, a free radical scavenger, inhibit oxygen uptake in either lichen species if added separately. Enhancement of oxygen uptake by these lichens occurs when they are exposed to the phosphorylation uncoupler carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; inhibition of oxygen uptake due to either cyanide alone or cyanide plus salicylhydroxamic acid is lessened by addition of carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone. Respiration of the cultured phycobiont Pseudotrebouxia is inhibited by azide. Immersion of R. complanata in unbuffered (pH 4.0) HCl solutions containing 64 ppm (wlv) HSO
10.2307/3240940| The Cetraria ciliaris group is composed of four species. Cetraria ciliaris Ach. produces olivetoric and physodic acids and occurs in eastern North America and Finland. Cetraria halei W. Culb. & C. Culb. sp. nov. is morphologically identical to C. ciliaris but produces alectoronic acid and, as an accessory substance, -collatolic acid. It occurs in eastern North America and in the Old World from Finland through the Soviet Union to Japan. Although through much of their collective North American range C. ciliaris and C. halei are sympatric, C. ciliaris is more southern in its qualitative and quantitative distribution and C. halei more northern. Certraria microphyllica W. Culb. & C. Culb. sp. nov., an endemic of Hokkaido, is the second known lichen to produce the rare substance microphyllic acid. Cetraria orbata (Nyl.) Fink produces protolichesterinic acid and has a disjunct range in eastern and western North America. All the species except C. orbata produce the cortex substance atranorin. 
10.2307/3244029|Drepanocladus vernicosus (Mitt.) Warnst. is reported from the Dominican Republic. This is the first find of this species in Central America since an earlier report has turned out to be incorrect. The locality is situated more than 2,200 km to the south of the species' southern limit in North America.
10.2307/3244544|The new cetrarioid genus, Kaernefeltia Thell & Goward is described to accommodate Cetraria californica and C. merrillii, both of which are characterized by small, broadly clavate asci, slightly capitate paraphyses, disc-bar-shaped pycnoconidia and several distinctive fatty acids.
10.2307/3244360|Plagiochila zhuensis sp. nov. tentatively placed in sect. Cobanae Carl, is described and illustrated. A key to species of sect. Cobanae Carl in E. Asia is provided. Plagiochila bischleriana Grolle & M. L. So is a new record to China and India. Six species names are newly placed in synonymy: P. cardotii Steph. (= P. pseudorenitens Schiffn.), P. eberhardtii Steph. (= P. obtusa Lindenb.), P. griffithiana Steph. (= P. peculiaris Schiffn.), P. hottae Inoue (= P. perserrata Herzog), P. onraedtii Inoue (= P. bantamensis (Reinw. et al.) Mont.), and P. tobagensis Herzog & S. Hatt. (= P. kurzii Steph.). A lectotype is designated for P. perserrata Herzog. Plagiochila sect. Hamulispinae Carl (1931) is newly included in P. sect. Zonatae Carl (1931).
10.2307/3242189|Patterns of environmental conditions prevailing in coastal desert fog zones provide habitats extremely favorable for lichen growth. Phylogenetically related groups of lichens occur in geographically isolated desert fog zones, but endemism at both the species and genus levels is relatively high. The ecological importance of lichens in these regions is related to morphological and physiological adaptations to water uptake in both a liquid and vapor form. Much of this moisture is unavailable to vascular plants, allowing a large biomass of lichens to occur in areas with little or no vascular plant cover. The relative importance of fruticose lichens in such habitats, in comparison to crustose and foliose forms, is determined largely by the physical form of atmospheric moisture.
10.2307/3243520|Lichens in the genus Xanthoparmelia were studied at altitudes of 2,545-2,570 m on the East Slope of the Colorado Front Range. Xanthoparmelia lineola (Berry) Hale and X. subdecipiens (Vain.) Hale were the most numerous of five morphologically similar nonisidiate chemotypes identified by thin-layer chromatography. Recognition of the chemotypes as distinct species is supported by differences in annual radial growth under uniform conditions at a transplant locality, and differences in habitat selection along an environmental transect. Xanthoparmelia lineola grows 35% faster than X. subdecipiens during its linear growth phase. It is more tolerant than X. subdecipiens of late-lying snow, but less tolerant of dark-colored, mafic rock substrates. The absence of extremely large Xanthoparmelia thalli in the study area is attributed to former episodes of increased snow cover.
10.2307/3241442|The effect of pH on the growth of protonemata of Tetraplodon mnioides (Hedw.) B.S.G. and Funaria hygrometrica Hedw. was studied for 5 weeks at initial pH levels of 3.5, 5.8, 6.4, and 7.8 in two different media. Protonemata of both species increased in dry weight significantly at each succeeding pH. There was a significant difference in growth of the protonemata in the two media, but there was no significant difference in growth between the two species. Also, there was no significant interaction between any of the sources of error. pH may be important as a limiting factor in restricting the habitat of Tetraplodon mnioides and Funaria hygrometrica.
10.2307/3243283|Traditionally, Grimmia olympica Britt. is placed in the genus Grimmia sensu lato. A combination of features, however, including habit, size, laminal shape and areolation, morphology of the leaf apex and costal anatomy, suggest that the species is better placed in the genus Brachydontium (Seligeriaceae). We propose the following transfer and combination: Brachydontium olympicum (Britt.) McIntosh & Spence. Comparisons with the other three species of Brachydontium are made, and the distribution and ecology of B. olympicum is discussed.
10.2307/3244472|Astomiopsis magilliana Snider, Yip, & Clark, sp. nov. is newly described from Natal, South Africa. The new species resembles Astomiopsis subulata C. Muell., but differs in having an obliquely long rostrate operculum, ovate perichaetial leaves, and bistratose upper leaf lamina.
3244876| Staurolemma carolinianum is described as the first species from the American continent of this apparently ancient genus. The type was collected on Juniperus on sand dunes of coastal North Carolina, and this easily overlooked species may be present in similar habitats southwards to Florida. Its closest relative, S. dussii (Vain.) P. M. Jrg. & Henssen, is known from the West Indies, and the genus shows a Madro-Tethyan distribution pattern. 
10.2307/3241262|The new species Gonohymenia sinaica is described and its position in the genus is discussed.
10.2307/3244456|An analysis of poorly defined, northern species of Scapania with respect to stable and variable taxonomic characters led to the following taxonomic alterations S. degenii, S. invisa, S. massalongii, S. paradoxa, and S. perssonii are synonyms of S. brevicaulis, S. zemliae, S. carinthiaca, S. obcordata, and S. curta var. grandiretis, respectively; S. tundrae and S. saxicola are reduced to varieties of S. hyperborea [S. hyperborea var. tundrae (H. Arn.) Potemkin comb. nov.] and S. glaucocephala, [Scapania glaucocephala var. saxicola (Schust.) Potemkin comb. nov.] respectively; new data supporting reduction of S. ligulifolia and S. praetervisa to subspecies of S. calcicola and S. mucronata, respectively; and inclusion of S. paludosa in synonymy of S. uliginosa are provided; the position of S. zemliae in the section Curtae is suggested; and reasons to include S. parvifolia as a synonym of S. scandica are given in English for the first time.
20061089|The hepatic genera Colura and Pleurozia show trap-like structures in the water sacs of their leaves. The function of these structures usually has been interpreted as water storage, although zoophagy has also been suggested. The experimental evidence that a species of Colura was able to trap protozoa was presented some years ago. Therefore the trap-like structure in the water sacs of Pleurozia purpurea has been studied. It is described and illustrated by light and electron scanning microscopy. Feeding experiments revealed that the structures in the water sacs of Pleurozia purpurea are able to trap individuals of Blepharisma americana (Ciliata). This provides evidence that the lobules of this second hepatic genus function in zoophagy. Other experiments have shown that individuals of Blepharisma are attracted by plants of Pleurozia, although the exact reason for this behavior is not known. Observations in the field revealed a high percentage of lobules filled with various small animals and suggest that these are regularly trapped and not present by chance.
20061097|Bryophytes are an important plant group with long-term dominance in alpine habitats. The alpine environment is however severe, and may restrict variation in bryophyte life history. This study examines the relationship between frequencies of bryophyte species and their life history traits between and within two alpine environments that differ in important environmental variables identified for bryophytes: 1) an oceanic region, with humid acidic soils (Setesdal) and 2) a sub-continental region, with more dry, productive, base-rich soils (Hol). A comparison between regions showed a higher frequency of base-demanding bryophytes in the sub-continental region. Sexual reproduction was more common among bryophytes in the oceanic region and these species also had higher indicator values for oceanic conditions and temperature as expected. Several life history traits were strongly correlated with bryophyte frequencies in the oceanic region--local species abundance increased in relation to shoot longevity, dioicism (mainly vegetative reproduction), and high humidity indicator values, but decreased for species with asexual propagules (gemmae). No traits were correlated with bryophyte frequencies in the sub-continental region. The importance of life history traits in the oceanic region indicates that severe environmental factors override bryophyte community heterogeneity only in the oceanic, acidic region. A possible explanation for higher environmental stress favoring tolerant long-lived species with vegetative reproduction could be higher grazing pressure, which is also reflected in significantly lower cryptogam coverage and correspondingly larger area of open soil in the oceanic region.
41486749|Morphology and ITS relationships are compared for 111 Sciuro-hypnum specimens, 95 of which belong to S. curtum, S. hylotapetum, or the S. reflexum complex. In the latter, S. reflexum is probably ancestral. Within the S. reflexum complex ITS haplotype relationships are congruent with morphology for S. brotheri, S. dovrense, S. glaciale, and S. ornellanum, and support the recognition of the two new species S. sinolatifolium and S. sichuanicum, whereas incongruence occurs for several species. In an ITS haplotype context, S. tromsoeense and S. latifolium are resolved as polyphyletic, and S. altaicum, some specimens of S. oedipodium, and S. curtum-S. starket intermediates cannot be distinguished from S. reflexum. Sciuro-hypnum fuegianum is molecularly identical and morphologically similar to S. glaciale, and is considered conspecific with the latter. There is no evidence to suggest that ITS a priori is more reliable than morphology, and we therefore suggest that the abundant incongruent patterns reflect either 1) a young age in terms of number of generations in relation to the rate of ITS differentiation and associated incomplete lineage sorting and occasional hybridization events, 2) a faster rate of morphological than ITS evolution, 3) the existence of many lineages that are propagated by selfing, or 4) regional differences in extinction rates during the Pleistocene glaciations. However, additional information is required to decide which of these is/are most important. Finally, S. squarrosum, a morphologically distinct species that molecularly belongs outside the S. reflexum complex, is described as new.
10.2307/3241444|Treubia tasmanica Schust. & Scott and Treubia lacunosa (Col.) Prosk. have gametic complements of 9 chromosomes, each complement including two trabanted nucleolar chromosomes of similar size and morphology. Their complements differ from those of other families of liverworts but are most similar to those of certain thallose Metzgeriales. Observations on etiolated plants and early stages of the development of leaf-like appendages of T. tasmanica accord with the view that dorsal scales and lateral leaves are two distinct and separate types of organ.
10.2307/3242832|A chronological history of bryophyte collections is given together with a revised checklist incorporating nomenclatural corrections, 24 species additions and several deletions. The moss flora now totals 79 species in 26 families.
10.2307/3241714|Fumigation of 8 lichen species with SO
10.2307/3242487|Five species and one variety are reported as new to Iowa: Barbula cancellata C.Muell., Calliergon cordifolium (Hedw.) Kindb., Geocalyx graveolans (Schrad.) Nees, Sphagnum recurvum P.-Beauv. var. amblyphyllum (Russ.) Warnst., S. squarrosum Crome and S. warnstorfii Russ. Eighteen county records are also reported from state preserves in Dickinson, Hancock and Webster counties. The Iowa distributions of six species are significantly extended westward in the state.
10.2307/3242794|Syrrhopodon texanus Sull. is a dioicous moss endemic to eastern North America. It occurs mainly as two apparently allopatric populations: one in the Atlantic and Gulf coastal plains and the other in the interior. Smaller, isolated, outlying populations also occur. Ninety-five (about 19%) of the 509 herbarium specimens studied included plants bearing gemmae on specialized leaves at the stem tips at the time of collection. There is marked periodicity in gemma production, which becomes important in August (33% of the specimens collected in that month) and peaks in September (50% of the specimens collected in that month), declining thereafter. Only 28 (about 5.5%) of the specimens, all from coastal plain sites, included plants bearing sporophytes. Male plants seem to be very rare; they were found only with sporophyte-bearing female plants in the coastal plain. Female plants are common, and apparently only female plants occur over most of the range of this moss.
10.2307/3242568|Ruderal habitats often contain interesting species of mosses. Bryum bicolor Dicks., Physcomitrium immersum Sull. and Pohlia melanodon (Brid.) Shaw are reported as new for Michigan. Additional Michigan records are provided for Pohlia lescuriana (Sull.) Grout and Pleuridium subulatum (Hedw.) Rabh.
20110820|The distribution of Flakea papillata in North America is here reported from a survey of herbarium specimens. Unlike reported specimens from the tropics, North American F. papillata is primarily saxicolous with the first report on soil. Examined specimens were found in humid habitats near water.
3244950| Habitat preferences and habitat differentiation were studied among species of Acroporium (Sematophyllaceae) and related taxa between 140-2,000 m a.s.l. in Peninsular Malaysia (02.92-04.87N, 100.80-101.83E). Canonical Correspondence Analysis was used to reveal how species data were related to 16 environmental factors that represent geographical, physical environmental, chemical, and substrate type components. We found some geographical variation, but this explained little of the species distribution patterns. A minimum model based on automatic forward selection suggested that elevation, the substrate peaty soil, and pH explain 57% of the variation in the species data, and variation partitioning suggests that much of the variation in the latter is explained by several factors in combination. Light availability and the substrate mineral soil were of moderate importance in explaining species data distribution, whereas other variables influenced the variation less and mainly along the third and fourth ordination axes. Trichosteleum and Papillidiopsis species occurred mainly at low elevations, Acroporium secundum (Reinw. & Hornsch.) M. Fleisch., A. diminutum (Brid.) M. Fleisch., and A. stramineum (Reinw. & Hornsch.) M. Fleisch. var. stramineum were found at relatively high pH values, and A. convolutum (Sande Lac.) M. Fleisch and Radulina hamata (Dozy & Molk.) W. R. Buck & B. C. Tan at low pH values. Acroporium procerum (Mll. Hal.) M. Fleisch., A. strepsiphyllum (Mont.) B. C. Tan, and probably A. rigens (Dixon) Dixon showed a preference for peaty soil, whereas Papillidiopsis malayana (Dixon) B. C. Tan was the only species found on thin mineral soil over rocks. 
10.2307/3244468|Three yellow colored Arthrorhaphis-taxa (Arthrorhaphis alpina, A. citrinella, and A. vacillans) are floristically treated for Greenland. A key and a distribution map are included. In addition, short descriptions are provided for these taxa as well as for three lichenicolous fungi on Arthrorhaphis - Cercidospora soror, C. trypetheliza, and Merismatium decolorans, all of which are reported as new to Greenland.
10.2307/3242134|A rare Ontario endemic, Tortula cainii Crum & Anderson, here newly reported from the Bruce Peninsula, is apparently restricted to karst regions, and retains its morphological characteristics in cultivation in a common garden with the closely related T. norvegica (Web.) Lindb.
10.2307/3242227|Bryoxiphium norvegicum (Brid.) Mitt. is reported for the first time from Colorado.
10.2307/3242584|Fissidens buckii from Puerto Rico and F. quisqueyanus from the Dominican Republic are described and illustrated. Fissidens buckii is compared with F. donnellii Aust. from which it is distinguished by its small size and unequal vaginant laminae. Fissidens quisqueyanus is compared with F. flavosetus Pursell from which it is distinguished by its monomorphic stems, unequal vaginant laminae, larger cells and weaker limbidia. In both F. buckii and F. quisqueyanus the smaller vaginant lamina of each pair narrows distally and ends on the costa.
10.2307/3242793| Nomenclatural novelties include 12 new combinations in Schizomitrium, as well as Tristichium apodum (Herz. as T. lorentzii var.) n. stat.; Dicranella calcarea (Bartr., as Dicranoweisia) n. comb. (Guatemala); Cynodontium guatemalense (Bartr., as Oncophorus,) n. comb. (Guatemala); Thudium delicatulum var. peruvianum (Mitt., as sp.) n. stat.; Barbula jacksharpii n. sp. (Guatemala); Lepyrodon duellii n. sp. (Mexico); Curviramea n. gen. & C. mexicana (Thr., as Pilotrichum) n. comb. (Mexico); Callicostaceae nom. nov. for Pilotrichaceae; Rigodiaceae n.fam.; Bryohaplocladium praelongum (Schimp. ex Besch., as Pseudoleskea) n. comb. (Arizona to Bolivia); Thuidium sharpii n. sp. (Mexico and Guatemala); Pylaisiadelpha brasiliensis n. sp. (Brazil). Diplostichum Mont. should replace Eustichia (Brid.) C. M. Meiothecium commutatum and Ptychomitrium chimborazense are recorded as new to Mexico, and Acritodon nephophilus is found to have peristome segments alternating with the teeth. 
20061123|The mountain caribou is a threatened ecotype of the woodland caribou restricted to east-central and southeast British Columbia as well as adjacent portions of Washington and Idaho. In winter these animals forage almost exclusively on arboreal hair lichens, especially Bryoria. Here we examine the vertical and horizontal occurrence of hair lichens within the canopy of a mid-successional, mid-elevational forest dominated by Engelmann spruce and subalpine fir. Our study yielded five key findings: 1) all hair lichen species potentially important to caribou are present 60 yr after stand initiation; 2) low-biomass sorediate species (mostly B. fuscescens) predominate in the lower and middle canopies; 3) high-biomass non-sorediate species (mostly B. fremontii and B. pseudofuscescens) are most abundant in the upper canopy; 4) hair lichen biomass is higher in open stands than in closed stands; and 5) hair lichen loadings are low when compared with earlier reports from old-growth stands. The last finding apparently reflects--in the upper canopy--a lack of defoliated branches and--in the middle and lower canopies--humid, poorly ventilated conditions. We suggest that a judicial use of stand thinning could considerably augment the production of non-sorediate Bryoria species in defoliated portions of the middle canopy. Within the lower canopy, however, thinning is unlikely to increase Bryoria loadings, except as a result of inoculation from the middle canopy.
10.2307/3240809|Twenty-three hepatics and 102 mosses are reported from "Lost Valley," Newton County, Arkansas. Data for the collections and comments on local distribution are provided.
25614905|The foliicolous lichens Aspidothelium hirsutum and Caprettia goderei are described as new from the Godere Forest in southwestern Ethiopia, the former also found in the Kakamega Forest in Kenya.
3244885|Lecanora pseudargentata, L. rhodi, and L. stenotropa are reported new for North America, and three other poorly known North American lichens, Aspicilia moenium, L. minutella, and L. ochraceorubescens, are also discussed. Lecanora rhodi and L. ochraceorubescens cannot be confused with any other lichens in North America, so the limited number of collections of these species probably indicate that they are uncommon or rare. The spotty specimen distributions of A. moenium, L. minutella, L. pseudargentata, and L. stenotropa, however, are probably the result of mis identification or oversight. An informed search of both herbaria and the field is recommended to improve our understanding of their geographic ranges.
10.2307/3242380|Ramalina leptocarpha Tuck. and its sorediate counterpart, R. subleptocarpha (described as a new species) represent an evolutionary sequence toward vegetative reproduction. As in many other fertile-sorediate species pairs, R. subleptocarpha has a wider distributional range along the Pacific Coast of North America than its fertile counterpart. Chemically, it differs from R. leptocarpha in consistently having zeorin.
3244160|Molecular phylogenies of the complex-thalloid liverworts (Marchantiales) were reconstructed using independent nuclear and plastid data sets to explore relative age, relationships, and character evolution in this ancient group. The sample includes 10 carpocephalate taxa and 24 acarpocephalate taxa (emphasizing Riccia) within Marchantiales sensu stricto. In addition, Monoclea, Sphaerocarpos, Riella, three Metzgeriales (Fossombronia, Pellia, and Blasia), the hornwort Anthoceros, four mosses, and outgroup Coleochaete are also sampled. Two nucleotide sequence alignments were used 1) partial nuclear-encoded Large Subunit rDNA (LSU rDNA) for all 48 taxa and 2) the plastid-encoded trnL-F region for the marchantioids and outgroup Blasia. Alignment-ambiguous regions of each alignment were culled. A combined matrix consisting of concatenated nuclear and plastid culled alignments was assembled for marchantioids and Blasia. The two alignments were utilized in four analyses: 1) nuclear LSU rDNA for all taxa, 2) nuclear LSU rDNA for marchantioids + Blasia, 3) plastid trnL-F region for marchantioids plus Blasia, and 4) combined nuclear and plastid data for marchantioids plus Blasia. Selected pairwise comparisons reveal significant rate heterogeneity in the nuclear LSU rDNA data; metzgerioid liverworts, hornworts and primitive mosses evolve significantly slower than other taxa relative to the outgroup Coleochaete. The LSU rDNA genes of some marchantioid taxa and sampled bryalean mosses are apparently evolving relatively fast. Rate heterogeneity is also documented within Marchantiales. Lunularia positions as the most basal of sampled Marchantiopsida; Sphaerocarpales, Marchantia, and Corsinia represent early diverging lines. A monophyletic Aytoniaceae, Cleveaceae, and Riccia are indicated. Topologies imply that extant acarpocephalate taxa are derived from carpocephalate forms. Monoclea positions well within Marchantiales sensu stricto. A well-supported long branch (Decay Index = 19) unites all sampled Marchantiopsida and isolates this clade from other liverworts and bryophytes. This long branch may suggest extensive extinction of proto- and eomarchantioid forms that led to modern taxa. A recurring theme in the topologies presented here is the unresolved marchantioid polytomy that follows well-supported basal nodes. A similar polytomy results from either independent data set and may correspond to a rapid radiation of marchantioid forms (e.g., Aytoniaceae, Cleveaceae, Targionia, Monoclea, and riccioids) coincident with extreme conditions and ecological reorganizations of the Permo-Triassic. The origin of Marchantiopsida probably occurred long before; amidst, perhaps, a series of long-extinct Blasia-like ancestors that colonized and innovated on any of various xeric surfaces (either cool or warm) that were available throughout embryophyte history in the Paleozoic.
23321058|A new species of Taxithelium with a very narrow distribution is found in Brazil in the states of Esprito Santo and Bahia, in the highly threatened Atlantic rainforest. The new species belongs in subgenus Vernieri and can be recognized by its small size and unipapillose perichaetial leaves, among other features.
3244926|Cyathodium bischlerianum is described as a new Neotropical species from Panama. The species is distinguished by its slender, delicate thallus; a prominent dorsal pore at base of involucre; monoicous condition with 1-2 archegonia per involucre, and male receptacles on sides of thallus; sporophytes without operculum; cells of upper third of capsule with bar-like thickenings; elaters attached to base of capsule wall with 3-4 bands; and spinose-bulbose spores. This species resembles the Asiatic C. aureonitens in spore ornamentation, but its monoicous condition, lack of operculum, naked involucre, and ornamentation of upper capsule cells separate it from its Asiatic relative. It is also related in morphology, sexual condition, and spore ornamentation to C. cavernarum.
10.2307/3244024|The rare copper moss, Scopelophila cataractae was recently collected in the vicinity of a zinc smelter at Palmerton, Pennsylvania. The plants and their substrates were highly enriched with zinc and cadmium, but not copper. Scopelophila cataractae and Anomobryum filiforme are new to Pennsylvania.
10.2307/3243782|Based on field studies, herbarium research, and previously overlooked reports, Hypogymnia pseudophysodes and Leptogium rivale are deleted from the British Columbia lichen checklist, while 27 species are either confirmed or reported as new. Clypeococcum hypocenomyceae, Hypocenomyce leucococca, Lecanora reagens, Phaeophyscia hirsuta, Physcia dimidiata, and Thelomma ocellatum are documented for Canada for the first time, and Abrothallus welwitzschii, Arthonia vinosa, and Lecidea pullata are new to North America.
10.2307/3244178|The phylogeny of the genus Diploschistes is investigated using parsimony analysis with morphological, chemical, and ecological characters. The scruposus group, including D. ocellatus, is supported as monophyletic, whereas the actinostomus group is shown to be paraphyletic. The predicted trend from perithecioid to urceolate ascomata within the genus is supported.
10.2307/3244435| Megalaria brodoana S. Ekman & Tnsberg sp. nov. (Lecanorales, lichenized Ascomycotina) is described from western North America (British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon). It is recognized by the following characteristics: a more or less granular, often bluish thallus; dark purplish brown to black, thick-margined apothecia; a greenish (K+ pure green, N+ purple-red) pigment in the epithecium; a brown-red to brown-purple (K+ red to purple-red, N+ orange-red) pigment in the proper exciple, hypothecium, and lower part of hymenium; a pure brown (K-, N-) pigment in the hypothecium; and one-septate, thick-walled, widely ellipsoid to subglobose spores. Megalaria brodoana occurs in humid, coastal forests along with a high number of oceanic lichens. The main phorophyte is Alnus rubra. The circumscription of the genus Megalaria is discussed. The combinations Megalaria columbiana (G. Merr.) S. Ekman and M. albocincta (Degel.) Tnsberg are made. 
3244596|The liverwort Spruceanthus theobromae (Spruce) Gradst., known from a single extant site and considered a critically endangered species, was detected on trunk bases of Theobroma cacao in 12 cacao plantations with low management intensity in western Ecuador. Its host specificity and exclusive occurrence in plantations are unique ecological features of the species. According to the IUCN criteria, Spruceanthus theobromae qualifies as a near threatened species (LR/nt) and should be removed from the World Red List of Bryophytes. The continued existence of cacao plantations with low management intensity in western Ecuador is of great importance to the conservation of local bryophyte diversity and is crucial to the survival of Spruceanthus theobromae.
3244589|Microfungi were isolated from living and decomposing Sphagnum fuscum from a southern boreal bog in Alberta, Canada. Fifty-five fungi (three ascomycetes, three basidiomycetes, 11 zygomycetes, 28 Fungi Imperfecti, 10 unnamed mycelia sterilia) are described in this study. Of the Fungi Imperfecti, 21 species have known sexual states (teleomorph) in the Ascomycota, while the remaining seven species are known only from their asexual state (anamorph) and could not be assigned to specific teleomorphic families. Thirty-six species represent new records from Sphagnum and 45 species are new records for S. fuscum. Nearly 52% of the 45 identified fungi originated from three families, Mortierellaceae (10 taxa, Zygomycota), Trichocomaceae (8 taxa, Ascomycota), and Hypocreaceae (5 taxa, Ascomycota), with the remaining fungi representing 12 additional families. The 55 fungi have the ability to utilize a variety of carbon sources, such as cellulose, tannic acid, and pectin, and thus are important organisms involved the mineralization of carbon in peatlands.
10.2307/3243757|Sugar accumulation was examined in three species of lichen mycobionts cultured on osmotic media. Large quantities of glucose, fructose, mannitol, and arabitol were detected in all mycobionts cultured on media with high concentrations of sucrose. However, fructose was not detected in mycobionts grown on media with glucose instead of sucrose. The quantities of accumulated monosaccharides in mycobionts increased parallel to the quantity of sugar added to the medium, though there were no differences in concentrations of polyols among mycobionts grown on media with various quantities of sucrose.
10.2307/3244044|Ascomata, ascus, spore anatomy, spore wall ornamentation, and conidiophore type are discussed with respect to the limits of the genus Amandinea Scheid. & Mayrh. Four new species combinations are made and eight taxa placed in synonymy. Amandinea dakotensis (H. Magn.) P. May & Sheard comb. nov. and A. milliaria (Tuck.) P. May & Sheard comb. nov. are transferred from the genus Rinodina (Ach.) Gray. Amandinea leucomela (Imshaug) P. May & Sheard comb. nov. and A. polyspora (Willey) E. Lay & P. May comb. nov. are transferred from Buellia De Not.
10.2307/3242631|Sphagnum steerei Andrus is validated.
10.2307/3240653|A new species, Parmelia alabamensis, belonging to subgenus Parmelia section Cyclocheila, is described from Alabama.
10.2307/3243602| Protein extracts from whole thalli of the lichen Umbilicaria vellea (L.) Ach. from six geographically separate stands, three with only sterile thalli and three with mostly fertile-or apotheciate-thalli were subjected to isoelectric focusing and staining for nine enzyme systems. The mean number of variable enzymes per stand was greater for sexual than for asexual stands, but the effect of sexuality on the degree of electromorph pattern variation was more evident with some enzymes than others. More variability in apotheciate as compared to nonapotheciate stands was observed mainly with the highly polymorphic enzymes, esterase and alkaline phosphatase. An analysis of variance of Shannon diversity indices indicated more enzyme pattern variability ( = 0.10) within apotheciate stands. However, this analysis treated all enzyme systems equally in spite of the fact that esterase and alkaline phosphatase are probably based on more gene loci than many of the other enzymes. Therefore, the analysis of variance would have underestimated differences, and sexual recombination may have introduced some variability. Although apotheciate thalli are uncommon in this species, ascospores may play a role in its reproduction and dispersal. 
20110886|We sampled epiphytic macrolichen communities on tree branches in 50 Pinus contorta peatlands in southeastern Alaska. We describe the natural range of variability in lichen communities in these habitats under baseline air quality and climatological conditions and interpreted how lichen community gradients related to site characteristics, tree characteristics and vascular vegetation. The most striking feature of this data set is the uniformity of species composition. Almost three-fourths of the variation was represented in an ordination axis related to variation in total lichen abundance and species richness, but without any strong gradients in the compositional mix of species. Species richness and total lichen abundance were most strongly related to geographic variables, in particular, lower values near Yakutat and the southern part of the study area. The weak compositional gradients, the small trees, their open-grown form and abundance of lichen-covered branches at a convenient height make the lichen communities ideal for biomonitoring of air quality and climate change.
10.2307/3243995| Diagnoses are given for Fissidens gardneri Mitt. (syn.: F. brevinervis Broth., F. foutadjalloni Par., and F. microcladus Thwaites & Mitt. in Mitt.) and F. minutus Thwaites & Mitt, in Mitt. (syn.: F. chungii Thr., F. garberi Lesq. & James, and F. rizalensis Bartr.). Fissidens gardneri and F. minutus are examples of species with broad distribution in the neotropics, Asia, and Africa. 
10.2307/3241476|Sphagnum magellanicum is recorded from Jamaica and the Dominican Republic as first records for the West Indies.
10.2307/3240666|Gemmae of Lunularia cruciata were irradiated with Co
10.2307/3242297| The Macrocoma tenue-M. sullivantii complex occurs in southern Africa, Madagascar, India, Sri Lanka, eastern Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Japan, China, Bhutan, southeastern United States, Mexico, Hawaiian Islands and central-northwestern South America. Populational variation was analyzed quantitatively. This species complex consists of an Old World, Southern Hemisphere subspecies-M. tenue subsp. tenue (Hook. & Grev.) Vitt-and a New World and Northern Hemisphere Old World subspecies-M. tenue subsp. sullivantii (C. Mll.) Vitt. This widespread species of Macrocoma, as well as other widely distributed mosses, is comprised of geographically isolated, but morphologically overlapping populations. The data suggest that the rate of evolution and infra-specific differentiation of these populations are likely to be controlled to a major degree by adaptation through local selection pressures, while "gene flow" is probably of less importance. Based on quantitative populational analyses, the evolutionary history of the M. tenue-M. sullivantii complex is speculated to include: (1) a Gondwanaland origin, (2) the inclusion of the Northern Hemisphere populations in the Arcto-Tertiary flora, and (3) more recent interactions between Southern and Northern Hemisphere populations in the Indian-eastern Asian-Australian areas. 
10.2307/3243780|A total of 218 taxa of lichens, including one lichenicolous fungus, is reported from Tuxedni Wilderness area in western lower Cook Inlet, Alaska. Lecanora epanora, Micarea denigrata, and Trapeliopsis flexuosa, are new to Alaska. Xanthoria alaskana Thomson sp. nov. is described. Compared with lichen distribution in British Columbia, the lichen flora of the Tuxedni area falls into five distributional categories, the majority of species occurring in coastal, wet interior, and alpine and subalpine ecological-geographic subdivisions. The most important northern hemisphere distributional categories are wide-ranging circumpolar arctic-alpine and boreal, western North American, and amphi-Beringian.
10.2307/3242103|Altogether 615 epithets of lichens are reported for Arizona. After the list is reduced by removing synonyms and misidentifications, 474 taxa remain -432 species in 78 genera, 2 subspecies, 16 varieties, and 19 forms. The catalog is based on reports in 92 papers.
10.2307/3240953|Fissidens ventricosus Lesq., an endemic moss of western North America, is distinct from F. rufulus B.S.G. of Europe, a species for which it has been mistakenly considered synonymous. The American species is redescribed and its distribution is reported.
10.2307/3243139|Fifty-four species of mosses and eighteen species of liverworts were present on the bases (0-1.8 m) of 120 trees belonging to six host species in a cove forest. Of the epiphytic species occurring at a frequency of 20% or more, only three were restricted to just one host species but 21 species showed strong single-host preferences. Epiphytic communities named after their host species were ordered using frequency-based coefficients of similarity as follows (with the most dissimilar communities at the two poles): red oak-red maple-beech-yellow birch-black birch-hemlock. This arrangement also represented a gradient of decreasing species richness of epiphytic communities. The ordering of epiphytic communities was correlated with a gradient of decreasing bark pH and in part with the water absorption capacities of the barks.
10.2307/3241594|Groutiella tomentosa (Hornsch.) Wijk & Marg. is reported as new to the United States (from Florida). The taxonomy of the species is discussed, with Groutiella fragilis (Mitt.) Crum & Steere, G. goniorrhyncha (Dozy & Molk.) Wijk & Marg., and G. schlumbergeri (Schimp. ex Besch.) Wijk & Marg. reduced to synonymy. Groutiella tomentosa is the only species of the genus found in both the Old and New World tropics. It occurs in Ceylon, Java, New Guinea, and the Philippines, and disjunctively over a wide range in tropical America.
40732258|Plagiochila microdictyon Mitt., previoulsy considered a synonym of P. Circinalis (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Lindeb., is a distinct species, with a limited distribution in norhern New Zealand. This species has the coarse, nodular leaf cell trogones of P. Circinalis, but has straight, non-coiled androecia, the male bracts toothed at the apex and united with the bract above. In dorsal aspect, the opposing leaf bases are separated by a conspicuous groove, leaving the surface of the stem narrowly exposed.
10.2307/3240981|The major theories of the origin of and evolution within the Hepaticae are reviewed. The major morphological characters which must be evaluated in considering evolutionary trends within the leafy Hepaticae are examined; namely, chromosome number, symmetry, branching, similarity of form and structure, vestigial structures, reversions, conservative organs, perianth formation, shoot-sporophyte relationships, capsule wall, seta structure, sporeling types, and some reduction series. Our present knowledge suggests that the most primitive living leafy Hepaticae are erect and radially symmetrical or nearly so. Most of these primitive taxa occur in the southern part of the Southern Hemisphere.
10.2307/3243406|The Bartramiaceae are divided into three subfamilies: the bartramioideae, the Breutelioideae subfam. nov., and the Conostomoideae subfam. nov. A key to the subfamilies and genera of the Bartramiaceae is provided. Axillary hairs are particularly useful in the phylogenetic assessment and they are illustrated for all the genera of the Bartramiaceae as well as for the genera in allied families, i.e., Meesiaceae, Timmiaceae, and Aulacomniaceae. The Catoscopiaceae are synonymized with the Bartramiaceae and Catoscopium is considered allied to Plagiopus. Other characters used in phylogenetic speculation are stem anatomy, spore morphology, rhizoid ornamentation, and chromosome numbers. The Bartramioideae contain Bartramia, Catoscopium, Leiomela, Plagiopus, and Flowersia gen. nov. (a segregate of Anacolia s.l.). The Conostomoideae are monotypic. The Breutelioideae accommodate Breutelia, Philonotis, Anacolia, Fleischerobryum, and Quathlamba. The sections of Breutelia are typified. Bartramidula is shown to be polyphyletic and is synonymized with Philonotis; the appropriate combinations are made. A new species of Philonotis, P. sharpiana, from Mexico is described. A dendrogram is presented to summarize the phylogenetic speculations.
10.2307/3243009|Field observations, spore and leaf cultures on agar and water media indicate that shoots of Calymperes afzelii and C. erosum are basically dimorphic. The first formed leaves in all young shoots are non-gemmiferous, followed after by leaves of the gemmiferous type. There is a regular alternation of non-gemmiferous and gemmiferous leaf production in coordination with the prevailing dry and rainy seasons.
10.2307/3243218| Aulacopilum schaeferi is described as a new species from So Paulo, Brazil. Its differences from other American members of the section Aulacopilum and especially A. tumidulum Mitt. are enumerated. 
10.2307/3242280|Fossombronia alaskana Steere & Inoue is reported for the first time from Greenland, where it occurs on the bare soil of frost boils on Disko Island, middle West Greenland. This is the first report of the species outside Arctic Alaska.
10.2307/3241778|Fossombronia alaskana Steere & Inoue is described as new from arctic Alaska, where it occurs in widely separated localities, all in the Brooks Range or in its northern foothills, extending from Cape Thompson at the western end eastward to Peters Lake, near the Canadian boundary. Its highly specialized habitat is on fine silt extruded as "frost boils," which are bare areas in the tundra produced by frost action, and it clearly belongs to a now well-substantiated circumpolar arctic floristic element; its discovery in other arctic areas, such as northernmost Canada and Siberia, can therefore be anticipated. Fossombronia alaskana stands closest probably to F. foveolata Lindb. in its spore markings, but differs from that and all other described species in the firmly closed, angled, and sometimes horned pseudoperianth, which opens only when the capsule is pushed out by the elongation of the seta; as well as in the spores, which may have 7-9 meshes across the convex face, or parallel lamellae with no meshes.
10.2307/3242197| Asexual reproduction by means of fasciculate gemmae is reported for the first time in Chandonanthus Mitt. Mature gemmae in Chandonanthus setiformis (Ehrh.) Lindb. from southwestern British Columbia are dark red, angular, 1(-2)-celled and average 16 x 28 m in size. 
10.2307/3244104|The range of Aloina hamulus (C. Muell.) Broth. is extended to Illinois, Kansas, Nebraska, and Oklahoma; the presence of A. roseae (Williams) Delg. in Peru is confirmed. The record of Crossidium rosei Williams from North America is mistaken; the specimen is C. seriatum Crum & Steere whose range now includes British Columbia. The distribution of the varieties of Crossidium squamiferum (Viv.) Jur. in western United States is reviewed with the aid of fruiting material.
10.2307/3243003|Nineteen lichen species were collected from Pinus ponderosa Dougl. in Custer National Forest in southeastern Montana; 340 trees in four vegetation types were sampled. The dominant lichen species at all heights of the trunks and on lower branches was Usnea hirta (L.) Wigg., constituting 31-74% of total lichen cover. The percentage of U. hirta was highest in the driest vegetation type (P. ponderosa-Agropyron spicatum) and lowest in the most moist vegetation type (P. ponderosa-Prunus virginiana). The majority of lichen cover and diversity on tree trunks was on the lowest 50 cm; diversity and cover increased with ascending moisture levels. Parmeliopsis ambigua (Wulf.) Nyl., Bryoria fuscescens (Gyeln.) Brodo & D. Hawksw., and Cetraria pinastri (Scop.) S. Gray increased most substantially from drier to wetter sites. Most of the lichen species found in this forest type are regular components of Rocky Mountain and/or northern coniferous forests. Other conifer forest types in the Rocky Mountains and Black Hills support richer lichen floras.
41486739|In North America, the widespread sorediate lichen known as Hyperphyscia adglutinata is shown to be heterogeneous. It contains two distinct species, one with primarily laminai soralia and another with marginal soralia. The latter taxon is here described as the new species H. confusa. Hyperphyscia adglutinata and H. confusa have broadly overlapping distributions in North America, especially in the Midwest and Great Plains states. Where they are sympatric, H. confusa is generally the more common of the two. Descriptions and discussions for H. adglutinata and the two other sorediate North American species, H. minor and H. pyrithrocardia, are also included, along with a key for separation of the four species. Hyperphyscia pyrithrcardia is reported for the first time from North America.
3244944| Using transmission electron microscopy, histochemistry, and analytical techniques, lipids are shown to constitute the most important cytoplasmic fraction in ten species of Grimmia. Major compounds common to these species are identified as -sitosterol, linoleic acid, and -amyrin acetate. The triterpenoid, -amyrin, has rarely been reported in mosses, and its possible chemotaxonomic value is pointed out. 
10.2307/3243380| The detailed geographical distribution of Xanthoria parietina, X. elegans, and X. ulophyllodes was studied quantitatively, with particular attention to distances to the ocean. The number of marble gravestones positive for each species out of the number sampled (frequency) was determined at 138 sites throughout most of Maine. Xanthoria parietina and X. elegans are more common close to the ocean and X. ulophyllodes is more common away from the ocean. Unlike X. elegans, X. parietina is restricted to sites fairly near the ocean; a contour map of the relative abundance of X. parietina shows that the 1% frequency contour line is reached approximately 35 km from the ocean in southwestern Maine and 85 to 125 km from the ocean in eastern Maine. The frequency of X. parietina on gravestones is also correlated with local habitats: higher frequencies than expected occur in partially wooded cemeteries surrounded by open habitats while lower frequencies than expected occur in open cemeteries surrounded by woods. Stepwise multiple regressions of X. parientina frequency as a function of distance to the ocean measured at 17 different directions, from 70 to 230, showed significant regressions in 2 directions: southwesterly (highest t-ratio) and easterly. It is suggested that the growth of X. parientina depends on the inland transport of marine elements, both wet deposition of salts during easterly storms and dry deposition of aerosols from southwesterly winds of the warmer months, with dry deposition being the dominant influence. 
20485825|Following our previous reports of extracellular laccase activity in lichenized ascomycetes, we investigated the diversity of laccase isoforms in lichens in 20 species from the suborder Peltigerineae. The molecular masses of the active forms of most laccases varied between 135 and 190 kD, although some lichens within the family Peltigeraceae had laccases with higher masses, typically varying from 200 to over 350 kD. Size exclusion chromatography (SEC) was used to confirm the accuracy of the electrophoretic estimates of molecular masses. SEC also clearly distinguished laccase from tyrosinase, another abundant cell wall oxidase in the Peltigerineae. Most species contained one oligomeric laccase isoform. Analysis of replicate collections of four species from different localities showed the isoform a given species contains does not vary with geographical location. The absorption spectra of lichen leachates suggested lichen laccases sometimes resemble the "yellow" laccases found in some free-living fungi. The thermostabilities of lichen laccases were only moderate; most of their activity remained after several hours at 40C, but at 50C activity was rapidly lost. Results indicate that considerable diversity in laccase isoforms exists in lichens.
20061068|New to the Americas is Anoectangium handelii Schiffn., which differs significantly from A. aestivum (Hedwig) Mitt. by its small size, axillary propagula, and cauline leaves usually blunt and shorter than the perichaetial leaves. Previously, this species was known only from south-central Eurasia.
10.2307/3244180|Bryum argenteum sensu lato, is a cosmopolitan moss found in many countries of the world, and is one of only a few moss species present in continental Antarctica. We have used RAPD (Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA) technology to investigate how this moss has colonized and spread in Antarctica, and whether it is genetically similar to other populations in nearby temperate land masses. Our modified RAPD technique gave reproducible results for single two mm moss shoots; within-clump variation was observed in most isolates, making the use of single shoots essential for these studies. A comparison of B. argenteum isolates from continental Antarctica, as well as from locations in Australia and New Zealand revealed that isolates from Australia and New Zealand are more similar to each other than either population is to the isolates from Antarctica. The level of genetic variation was as high within Antarctic clumps as in those from more temperate regions, even though sexual reproduction has not been observed in the Antarctic populations.
10.2307/3244260| Se reportan 27 especies de briofitas epfilas (26 hepticas y 1 musgo) de la Selva Lacandona en el estado de Chiapas, Mxico. De estas especies, nueve son registradas por primera vez para el pas: Cololejeunea subscariosa, Diplasiolejeunea glaziovii y Leptolejeunea obfuscata son especies registradas previamente en las tierras bajas sudamericanas; mientras que Colura greig-smithii Diplasiolejeunea borhidiana y Lejeunea pililoba tienen distribucin caribea. Se establece una nueva combinacin, Aphanolejeunea pustulosa (Jovet-Ast) A. Bernecker et Pcs. /// Epiphyllous bryophyte species (26 liverworts and one moss) are reported from the Lacandon Forest in Chiapas, Mexico. Nine of them are reported for the first time for the country: Cololejeunea subscariosa, Diplasiolejeunea glaziovii, and Leptolejeunea obfuscata were previously reported from South American lowland species, while Cololejeunea jooriana, Colura greig-smithii, Diplasiolejeunea borhidiana, and Lejeunea pililoba have Caribbean distributions. A new combination, Aphanolejeunea pustulosa (Jovet-Ast) A. Bernecker & Pcs, is made. 
10.2307/3243397|Lejeunea capensis Gott. is reported for the first time from the Western Hemisphere, in Brazil, occurring in very similar habitats to those in which it grows in Africa and Asia.
41289788|Two new species of Candelariella are described. Candelariella granuliformis is a polyspored, terricolous, small granular, blastidiate species known from arctic and alpine areas of North America and Scandinavia. Candelariella corviniscalensis, described from one locality in Colorado, is characterized by biatorine apothecia, long spores and an endolithic thallus. In addition a key to the presently recognized species in Candelariales known to occur in North America is provided.
10.2307/3243402| A key emphasizing vegetative characters is provided to 237 species in 92 genera of liverworts and hornworts recorded from Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Poorly known taxa and doubtful records have usually been omitted from the key and are referred to in notes. A classification and a list of synonyms are provided. The following new names and new combinations are proposed: Anomoclada portoricensis (Hampe & Gott.) Va, comb. nov., Macrolejeunea cerina (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Gradst., comb. nov., and Neurolejeunea sastreana Gradst., sp. nov. 
20110954|Arthropod and epiphyte assemblages were compared at three heights (0-2, 2-4 and 4-6 m) on the boles of red maple (Acer rubrum) trees located in a closed canopy forest and within harvest gaps. A positive correlation among bryophytes, Collembola (springtails) and Araneae (spiders) suggested a potential trophic interaction where arboreal spiders, during early developmental stages, were dependent upon availability of Collembolan prey. This relationship appeared to be sensitive to a decline in bryophyte abundance that occurred following gap harvesting. Fifteen families of Diptera (flis) were identified, eight of which were common. The eight common families utilized the arboreal habitat differently depending on height along the bole and abundance of crustose and other lichens. A potential association was identified between six Dipteran families and a Collembolan morphospecies in the family Entomobryidae, suggesting a diverse arthropod community that exploits different attributes of the arboreal habitat and exhibits varied responses to harvest gaps.
20110756|Two new species of the cyanobacterial lichen genus Pterygiopsis from southwestern North America are described. Pterygiopsis cava occurs on siliceous rock in central and southeastern Arizona. It is characterized by a dwarf-fruticose thallus with hollow, internally corticate lobes, polysporous asci, and pycnoascocarps. Pterygiopsis mutabilis occurs on volcanic rock in Baja California Sur. It is variable in thallus shape starting with rosulate squamules which eventually develop into densely lobulate cushions. The lobules have a thick, paraplectenchymatous basal layer, the asci are 8-spored and the ascomatal ontogeny starts from a spheroid tangle of generative hyphae. Records of Pterygiopsis atra are given and P. canariensis is reported for the first time from the United States. A key to the species of Pterygiopsis in southwestern North America is provided.
3244726| Acroscyphus sphaerophoroides Lv. is reported new to Washington State (U.S.A.) Previously this rare and monotypic fruticose lichen has been reported from North America only in Veracruz, Mexico and British Columbia, Canada. We are unable to verify the collection from Mexico at this time, however it's locality near Perote in the highlands of southern Mexico fits with a southern extension of boreal forests down the cordilleras of western North America, and an overall disjunct worldwide distribution from high exposed regions of China, Japan, Peru, Patagonia, and South Africa. Listing of this species as critically imperiled is strongly recommended for Washington State. 
10.2307/3241508|Spores of Funaria hygrometrica Hedw. have been reported to remain viable up to nine years. In the present study spores were found to remain viable for nearly 11 years.
10.2307/3244390|Organization of the paleontology collections at the New Brunswick Museum has uncovered the holotype of Thallites lichenoides (Matthew) Lundblad, a supposed Pennsylvanian bryophyte from New Brunswick. The specimen, one of the few reported Paleozoic bryophyte fossils from North America, is poorly preserved and needs to be re-evaluated in future reviews of Paleozoic bryophytes.
10.2307/3242129|The calciphilous bryophyte vegetation of three limestone sinks in Sevier County, Tennessee, was quantitatively studied by the line-intercept method. In an area of one and one-third acres, 63 species of bryophytes were encountered along transects. Sink profiles were constructed for use with transect data for mapping calciphilous bryophyte distribution in microhabitats within the sinks. The high floral diversity supported by the localized climate of these sinks suggests that limestone sinks may be considered possible refugia for relict species.
10.2307/3242950|Cellular patterns of the dorsal and ventral endostomial surfaces provide the best means for distinguishing peristomes of the Funariales and Encalyptales from those of other diplolepideous orders. Fusion of cilia to one another and to parts of adjacent segments can result in endostomes that appear to have opposite segments, even when they actually alternate with the exostome teeth. The segments in Pseudoditrichum mirabile alternate with the exostome teeth and the Pseudoditrichaceae is accordingly shifted from the Funariales into the Bryales, near the Bryaceae.
10.2307/3244415|Correct author citation for Grimmia alpestris is (Weber & Mohr) Schleich. This combination was effectively and validly published in 1808. Grimmia sudetica Schwaegr., formerly proposed as the correct name for this taxon, is illegitimate and the selected lectotype is in conflict with the protologue, and must be discarded.
10.2307/3241798|Twelve morphological stages in the development of the Buxbaumia aphylla sporophyte are described. Permanent plots and mass collections enabled observations on annual production of sporophytes in Newfoundland and on their rate of maturation. Sudden frosts have adverse effects, often resulting in high mortality of young sporophytes. New sporophytes appear in mid-September but do not mature until the following June, overwintering as immature capsules. Over three generations (1971-1973), annual production of sporophytes decreased in the permanent plots, but increased again in 1974. No decrease in abundance at any one locality was noted. Protonemata of Buxbaumia aphylla were maintained in culture for 8 months without producing sex organs, but possible asexual propagules were observed. Possible theories about the life history of Buxbaumia aphylla are discussed and a possible alternative to an annual life history is suggested, that of a perennial protonemal stage.
10.2307/3243308|Three species of Sphagnum are reported for the Hawaiian Islands: S. henryense Warnst., S. palustre L., and S. wheeleri C. Mueller. Sphagnum henryense is reported for the first time from the Hawaiian Islands. One species formerly reported for Hawaii, Sphagnum vitjianum Schimper (= S. perichaetiale Hampe) is excluded. Sphagnum occurs naturally only on two islands: Maui and Hawaii.
20110959|A new species, Drepanolejeunea longifolia, from the rain forest of Meghalaya province in eastern Himalayas has been investigated and is described as new. It is confined to the Mawphlong Forest and Elephant Falls in East Khasi Hills of Meghalaya and differentiated from the similar D. angustifolia by larger (20 mm) plants; erect, distant, triangular leaves with entire margins and lack of ocelli. Some variable morphoforms of D. erecta exhibiting small plants, suboblique, oblong to sub-elleptical, more or less entire leaves (rarely with 2-3 marginal protrusions in young leaves) with single-celled leaf ocelli and 5-keeled perianth have also been encountered and are described here.
10.2307/3241724|The new species Cladonia psoromica, known only from nine collections from the type locality in Ashe County, western North Carolina, produces usnic acid and traces of an unidentified acid in addition to psoromic acid, a substance previously unknown in Cladonia subsection Unciales. A key to the eastern North American Cladoniae subsect. Unciales is included.
20110962|Fissidens tumescens is described and illustrated from Dominica and Guadeloupe in the eastern Caribbean Sea. The species belongs to subgenus Aloma, and is most similar to F. neglectus. Its distinctive features include: slender leafy stems; intralaminal, unistratose limbidia that extend to about - the length of the vaginant laminae of most leaves; smooth, tumid laminal cells that vary from unistratose to bistratose; and, marginal laminal cells often papillose on the margins.
10.2307/3243377|Endocarpon minutum Harada (lichenized Ascomycotina, Verrucariaceae) is described as new from western Japan. It is characterized by very small squamules lacking rhizines, almost hyaline to dark brown exciple, asci containing eight almost hyaline spores, and bacilliform hymenial algae. It occurs on mosses covering limestone cliffs and on calcareous soil.
20485786|In developing a revision of Syntrichia in the Neotropics, seven names are newly synonymized based on morphological data. Syntrichia ciliata, S. prostrata, S. ruralis var. spiralis and S. viridula are considered to be conspecific with S. andicola, S. serrulata, S. princeps and S. lacerifolia, respectively. Tortula goudotii var. boliviana is transferred into Syntrichia and synonymized with S. andicola. Syntrichia bipedicellata and S. linguifolia are newly synonymized with S. fragilis. Lectotypes for three names currently included in Syntrichia are designated here.
10.2307/3241261|A summary is given of the information on lichen products reported in 295 papers, most of which appeared too recently for inclusion in the book Chemical and Botanical Guide to Lichen Products by Chicita F. Culberson (1969). The new references are primarily from the years 1965 to 1968, although many are from 1969. The chemical guide summarizes the recent literature on primary and secondary lichen products, of which 90 are new to lichens. The botanical guide covers revisionary and confirmatory reports on taxa previously studied as well as chemical data for 682 taxa not included in the book.
10.2307/3243398|Rhizomnium punctatum subsp. chlorophyllosum, a common moss along streams in eastern deciduous forests of North America, is regularly eaten by larvae of the crane fly Tipula (Trichotipula) oropezoides. Typical feeding patterns involve stripping of the single cell layer-thick leaf lamina, leaving the thicker costa and leaf borders. Direct evidence of insects feeding on mosses and liverworts is scant, and little is known about such issues as possible feeding deterrents, coevolution, or caloric values of bryophyte tissues.
10.2307/3241236|Spores of Polytrichum commune and P. juniperinum were tested for germinability on mineral agar and sucrose agar from the time of meiosis until the spores were ripe. The intensity of chlorophyll fluorescence in the spores served as an indicator of the progress of ripening. Spores with no fluorescence or dim fluorescence died on mineral agar, but showed slight to substantial germination on sucrose agar. On mineral agar, performance improves with ripening of the spores. On sucrose agar, performance at first improves, but when the spores become green they do not germinate as well on sucrose agar as they do on mineral agar. Newly ripened spores are 100% germinable on sucrose or mineral agar. The evidence contributes support to the idea that the spores become vegetative cells during the ripening period in the capsule.
10.2307/3242651| Four species of hepatics, Barbilophozia barbata (Schmid. ex Schreb.) Loeske, B. kunzeana (Hb.) Gams, Calypogeia muelleriana (Schiffn.) K. Mll., and Tritomaria quinquedentata (Huds.) Buch are reported new to Wyoming. This increases the known flora of the state to 79 species. 
10.2307/3242043| Forty-six lichens, two mosses and one fungus were studied on the trunks of Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco and Abies lasiocarpa (Hook.) Nutt. at five elevations in Boulder County, Colorado. Arthonia mediella Nyl., Cladonia bacillaris (Ach.) Nyl., Lecanora expallens Ach., L. hypoptoides Nyl., L. piniperda Krb., Lecidea plebeja Nyl. and Rinodina pachysperma Magn. are reported for the first time from Colorado. The vertical, horizontal (aspectual) and elevational distributions of the cryptogams were ascertained both quantitatively and qualitatively. Eleven taxa were exclusive to P. menziesii, 17 taxa were exclusive to A. lasiocarpa and 19 taxa were common to both. The rate of bark scaling appeared to be the most important substrate feature governing the abundance of epiphytic growth on different conifer tree species. 
10.2307/3242107|Mosses of the coastal dune ecosystem were studied to determine whether a tolerance to chronic salt spray had evolved, if so, whether it was a species or population level trait, and whether it is important in the dune moss community. Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid., Aulacomnium palustre (Hedw.) Schwaegr., and Polytrichum commune Hedw. from three different New Jersey habitats were misted with salt spray to simulate the secondary dune environment. No species survived salt spray alone. When rain was added however, Ceratodon did exhibit some salt tolerance. The results suggest that salt spray is sufficient to severely restrict the dune moss community, and that of the possible strategies, Ceratodon has evolved a salt tolerance, Aulacomnium and Polytrichum depend on salt dilution, and that recovery following salt stress is of secondary importance. There were no significant differences noted in response to salt spray among populations within a species, and this result was not affected by varying the substrate. Therefore salt tolerance is a species level trait, not a population level trait, suggesting that ecotypic differentiation has not taken place in response to salt spray.
10.2307/3241944|A chemical race of Ramalina farinacea with salazinic and norstictic acids was collected on the slopes of Haleakala Crater on Maui at altitudes of between 1200-2500 meters.
3244831| The Bryum bicolor complex includes four species in North America: B. bicolor, B. gemmilucens, B. gemmiferum, and B. barnesii. Bulbil morphology is the most important taxonomic character for delineating the four North American species recognized, but care must be taken not to confuse them with morphologically similar restricted buds produced by other Bryum species. Bryum bicolor is the only northern hemisphere species of the complex with bulbils single per leaf axil, but is sometimes considered to be identical with the southern hemisphere species, B. dichotomum. After examination of the North American herbarium material and the types of B. bicolor and B. dichotomum, we could not perceive morphological differences between the two species. However, our survey did not include any other southern hemisphere specimens and we therefore kept the name B. bicolor pending for further studies on the variability of the species of the complex in the southern hemisphere. Bryum barnesii, B. gemmiferum, and B. gemmilucens all produce many bulbils per leaf axil but differ in bulbil color, shape. and size. Bryum gemmilucens is characterized by 100-200 m long yellow, orange or red bulbils; B. barnesii by usually larger, 200-450 m long greenish bulbils with broad, obtuse to largely acute primordia; and B. gemmiferum by 150-350 (450) m long, yellow green, rarely brownish bulbils with tooth-like primordia. Leaf morphology is too variable to be used as a reliable taxonomic character within the complex. Costa length is quite variable, and plants exhibiting large bulbils and strongly excurrent costa approach B. dunense, considered to be a synonym of B. bicolor. Similarily, plants with broad leaves and laminal cells approach B. balticum, considered to be conspecific with B. barnesii. Bryum bicolor has been reported from 25 states of the United States and six Canadian provinces. Bryum barnesii, newly reported from North America, is most common along the Pacific coast, whereas both B. gemmiferum and B. gemmilucens are considered rare in North America. 
10.2307/3241654|Forty-seven species and the genera Icmadophila and Parmeliella are reported for the first time from New Mexico.
10.2307/3241479| Ramalina bajacalifornica, from the Pacific coast of Baja California, is described as a new species. It is characterized by broad linear branches, laminal splitting, and subterminal lateral apothecia. It contains salazinic acid, usnic acid, and an unknown substance (). 
10.2307/3241837| Pertusaria gyalectoides Vzda and Stereocaulon leprocauloides I. M. Lamb, from New Guinea, are described as new. 
20110818|A lectotype for Grimmia pilifera P. Beauv. is designated. The original description of the species is ambiguous and typification of the name with materials matching the traditional concept of the species is important in order to maintain nomenclatural stability.
10.2307/3241974|Three species are reported as new to Oregon: Bryum weigelii Spreng., Helodium blandowii (Web. & Mohr.) Warnst. var. blandowii and Drepanocladus vernicosus (Lindb. ex C.Hartm.) Warnst.
10.2307/3243105| Arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs) constitute a class of hydroxyproline-containing glycoproteins. Accumulated evidence that hydroxyproline-containing protein(s) (hyp-protein) functions in the correlative control of leaf and branch development in liverworts prompted our investigation of the occurrence of AGPs in hepatics. Their presence can be detected in tissues as well as tissue extracts by means of Yariv -glucosyl reagent, an artificial antigen which specifically binds, precipitates, and stains AGPs red-orange. We used this reagent to detect AGPs associated with the cell walls of eight species of hepatics, Haplomitrium mnioides (Lindb.) Schust., Scapania nemorosa (L.) Dum., Nowellia curvifolia (Dicks.) Mitt., Jungermannia leiantha Grolle, Gymnocolea inflata (Huds.) Dum., Fossombronia foveolata Lindb., Riccardia sinuata (Dicks.) Trevis, and Riccia duplex Lorbeer. Since these species represent both subclasses, as well as four of seven orders, of the Hepaticae, these results suggest that AGPs may be regularly occurring components of liverwort cell walls. Whether AGPs function in morphoregulation remains to be determined. 
10.2307/3243948|Orthotrichum truncatum Lewinsky & Deguchi, a new species from Chile (subg. Phaneroporum sect. Rupestria), is characterized by truncate or obtuse (rarely acute or refuse) leaf apices with plane margins. It is an epiphyte in the montane forests of the Andes. Further, O. macrosporum Lewinsky is reported new to Chile.
20061145|New to the Americas from California is Didymodon bistratosus J.-P. Hbrard & R. B. Pierrot, differing significantly from congeners by the deep red lower portions of the plant, and 2-3-stratose upper lamina. In California it was found on a sandstone boulder in a mesic oak woodland. Its range worldwide is restricted to California, the Iberian Peninsula and Turkey.
10.2307/3241186|During the foray, sites were visited on the coast of Oregon, the Columbia River Gorge, Larch Mountain, and Mt. Hood. Some 146 species of mosses, 59 of liverworts, and 106 of lichens identified from the collections are reported.
10.2307/3243514|Bryum tuberosum Mohamed & Damanhuri is described as a new species from Peninsular Malaysia. It is characterized by broad to long-ovate leaves and abundant reddish-brown, flattened tubers in leaf axils and on rhizoids.
41486714|Microlejeunea strasbergii J. Bardaqt & C. Ah-Peng is described from Runion Island. It differs from Microlejeunea africana Steph. in the larger lobule, the incurved distal margin of the lobe and the apical tooth of the lobule that is almost in contact with the distal margin of the lobe. The new species is described, illustrated, its IUCN status assessed, and an identification key for the genus is provided for the Mascarene archipelago (Runion, Mauritius and Rodrigues).
10.2307/3241506|Pilophoron acicularis (Ach.) Th. Fr. is designated as the type of its genus, a previous lectotypification being in error by the selection of a species not part of the original circumscription of Stereocaulon sect. Pilophoron, the basionym of Pilophoron (Tuck.) Th. Fr. The frequent spelling of the generic name as "Pilophorus" is shown to be wrong.
10.2307/3242006|Twenty-nine moss species are added to the known flora of Venezuela.
10.2307/3244369|Epiphyllous liverworts are reported for the first time from Alabama. Cololejeunea minutissima (Sm.) Schiffn. was collected on a Sabal palmetto frond at one location in south Alabama. Cololejeunea cardiocarpa (Mont.) Steph. was collected on the leaves of a variety of taxa in five southern Alabama counties. Cololejeunea cardiocarpa is also reported for the first time as epiphyllous on herbaceous angiosperm taxa in the continental United States. Kalmia latifolia is reported for the second time as a host for epiphyllous liverworts.
10.2307/3242508|Ten species of Syrrhopodon with the leaves not bordered above by elongated cells occur in the Americas. One species, S. incompletus, is represented by six varieties, including: S. incompletus var. perangustifolius Reese, var. nov.; S. i. var. lanceolatus (Hampe) Reese, comb. et stat. nov.; and S. i. var. berteroanus (Brid.) Reese, comb. et stat. nov. Keys, descriptions and illustrations are provided for all taxa.
10.2307/3244230|A Tortula ruralis cDNA Rps3a, encoding a predicted polypeptide with significant similarity to the small-subunit ribosomal protein S3a, was isolated from a desiccated gametophyte cDNA library. The deduced 248 amino acid polypeptide is approximately 28 kDa, with a predicted pI of 10.09, and shares extensive identity (> 75%) with S3a ribosomal proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana and Helianthus annuus. The deduced polypeptide (RPS3a) contains three nuclear targeting signals, one of which is unique to the bryophyte S3a homologue, and is strongly predicted by PSORT to be nuclear localized (> 97% certainty). Northern blot hybridization using total and polysomal RNA demonstrated Rsp3a is constitutively expressed in moss gametophytes during a wet/dry/wet cycle. Phylogenetic analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence demonstrates T. ruralis RPS3a is most similar to S3a ribosomal proteins from Tracheophytes.
10.2307/3240485|Thirty-four species are recognized in the family Hookeriaceae as represented in Mexico. Four genera - Callicostella, Cyclodictyon, Hookeria, and Lepidopilum - and five species are known from North America north of Mexico. The additional genera growing in Mexico are Adelothecium, Crossomitrium, Daltonia, Hookeriopsis, Isodrepanium, Leskeodon, and Rhynchostegiopsis, including 31 additional species. Two species reported from north of the Rio Grande, Hookeria lucens and Cyclodictyon varians, are unknown from Mexico. Callicostella mexicana is described as new and C. bernoullii and Hookeria acutifolia are reported as new to the flora of that country.
10.2307/3241014|Forty-one species exhibiting four basic growth forms were encountered on fields abandoned from one to 68 years previously in Somerset County, New Jersey. The bryophytic dominants (Physcomitrium turbinatum, Astomum muhlenbergianum, Pleuridium subulatum, and Weisia controversa initially; Polytrichum commune and Ditrichum lineare secondarily; and Dicranella heteromalla and Atrichum angustatum finally) are of the turf growth form, but matted forms, indicative of increasingly mesic conditions associated with the invasion of Juniperus virginiana and other woody species, are more represented as the sere continues. A frequency analysis of growth forms indicates a decline of turfs from 98.2% on one-year-old fields to 52.7% on the 68-year-old field; mats increase from 1.8% on the former fields to 42.1% on the latter. Collective coverage of terrestrial bryophytes decreases throughout the sere as deposition of litter increases.
10.2307/3241935|A second fascicle of 75 Canadian lichens has been issued by the National Herbarium of Canada (CANL). Thirty-seven complete sets were distributed. Included in the series were three lichens new for North America: Catillaria biformigera (Leight.) P. James, Ionaspis melanocarpa (Kremp.) Arn. and Lecanora cfr. laxula H. Magn.; and two species new for Canada: Buellia dialyta (Nyl.) Tuck. and Opegrapha rufescens Pers. One new combination was made in the exsiccata: Lecanactis megaspora (Merr.) Brodo and one is made here: Cladina terrae-novae fo. cinerescens (Ahti) Brodo.
10.2307/3243269|Catapyrenium is a segregate from the better known foliose genus Dermatocarpon. Catapyrenium lachneum is ubiquitous on calcareous soils from the Arctic south to Mexico. Catapyrenium tuckermanii, the only species on trees, is common in the Appalachians but ranges to California and Mexico. Catapyrenium cinereum is a northern arctic-alpine species. Catapyrenium plumbeum is a Rocky Mountain species. Several other rock-living species, including C. acarosporoides, C. compactum, C. granulosum, C. heppioides, C. squamellum, and C. zahlbruckneri, are southwestern. One species, C. caeruleopulvinum, from the Southwest is described as new. Placidiopsis cervinula is reported as new to North America.
3244824|Two squamulose species and one crustose species of Trapeliopsis are described from the western United States based on morphological, anatomical, and ITS sequence data. The newly described species pair, T. californica and T. steppica, consistently differs from T. wallrothii in morphology, ascospores, secondary products, and ITS sequence. Previous reports of Trapeliopsis wallrothii from North America should be referred to T. californica. Morphologically similar to Trapeliopsis californica, T. steppica is separated from that species by the presence of dark granular soredia in discrete roundish soralia; a thinner, duller cortex; and slightly smaller and more appressed squamules. Trapeliopsis steppica is apparently endemic to western North America, predominantly in the intermountain region. Trapeliopsis californica, an esorediate frequently fertile species, predominates in California and west of the Cascade crest in the Pacific Northwest. The third new species, T. bisorediata, is a rarely collected, but locally common in the semi-arid intermountain region of the Pacific Northwest. It is characterized by soredia of two types on a whitish pruinose crustose-areolate non-lobate thallus.
43188822|We investigated habitat attributes related to the occupancy of the globally rare and endangered epiphytic lichen, Erioderma pedicellatum, in a newly discovered (2009) population center in Denali National Park and Preserve (DNPP), Alaska. We measured forest, tree and epiphytic lichen community characteristics on eighty-five systematically selected plots in four study areas. We aggregated these data at three spatial scales (tree, plot and study area) at which to compare E. pedicellatum occupancy (probability of occurrence) and abundance to environmental covariates. We observed 2,035 E. pedicellatum thalli on 278 individual Picea glauca stems. The species occurred in 61% of the plots measured. Occupancy of E. pedicellatum at the individual tree-scale was influenced by stem diameter, study area, live crown length, plot P. glauca basal area, plot canopy cover and distance to open water. Our models for E. pedicellatum occupancy at the plot-scale identified study area, P. glauca density, deciduous basal area (Betula neoalaskana and Populus trichocarpa), and tall shrub cover ( 200 cm in height) as significant covariates. Our estimates of the DNPP population size increase the world population by at least tenfold to approximately 100,000 thalli. We suggest important topics for further research on E. pedicellatum.
3244657|Five new species are described from the group of Hypogymnia with rimmed holes on the lower surface: H. bulbosa, H. congesta, H. diffractaica, H. laxa, and H. pseudocyphellata. All species in this group are restricted to the Himalayan region, primarily in southwestern China. Four other species in this group have previously been described: H. hengduanensis, H. kangdingensis, H. macrospora, and H. subvittata. Hypogymnia kangdingensis is synonymized with H. hengduanensis and Hypogymnia subvittata is synonymized with H. macrospora. Virensic acid (in H. congesta) and norbarbatic (4'-O-demethylbarbatic acid) are major lichen substances previously unreported from Hypogymnia.
10.2307/3243330|The lichens Caloplaca chlorina, C. obscurella, C. sorocarpa, Lecanora flavopunctata, Lecidea efflorescens, L. leprarioides, L. praetermissa, L. roseotincta, L. subcinnabarina, L. vacciniicola, Lichinodium sirosiphoideum, Mycoblastus alpinus, M. fucatus, Pertusaria flavocorallina, Rinodina griseosoralifera, Ropalospora viridis, and Schaereria corticola, are reported new to North America. The diagnostic features of the taxa are briefly given as well as notes on their distribution and substratum ecology.
20485821|The new species, Enterographa diederichiana, known only from the type locality in Zambia, is described. It is characterized by distinctly rounded pseudostromata with punctiform to shortly lirelliform ascomata, (4-)7-septate ascospores without a perispore and the presence of roccellic acid in the thallus.
10.2307/3240696|Forty hepatics and 133 mosses are reported from Livingston County, west-central New York. Many of the taxa are new to the local flora.
10.2307/3244413|Niche breadth and niche overlap values for water table depth, pH, conductivity, and base cation concentrations in mire water were calculated for nine Sphagnum species at two nutrient-poor mires in the southern Alps of Italy. Water table depth is more important than chemical status in controlling the distribution of Sphagnum species. The chemical status of mire water is best indicated by water pH. The Sphagnum species occupying the extremes of the water table gradient exhibit narrow niche breadth and a low niche overlap values. For these reasons they are best regarded as specialists. This is particularly evident for hollow species. The sharp segregation of hollow Sphagna along both the water table depth and the chemical gradient is thought to be determined by higher degree of competition taking place in hollow habitats. On the other hand, hummock species appear to be segregated by physiological tolerance rather than competition. The Sphagnum species occupying the middle of the moisture gradient exhibit broad niche breadth and overlap values, but most of them tend to segregate at least along one of these two gradients.
10.2307/3244048| Twenty-five names in Fissidens Hedw. (including Conomitrium Mont.) and one name in Eustichia (Brid.) Brid. are newly placed in the synonymy of 11 accepted names of Fissidens. Four names, Conomitrium generalium C. Mll. [= Fissidens generalium (C. Mll.) Broth.], Diplostichum ulei C. Mll., [= Eustichia ulei (C. Mll.) Paris], Fissidens fossicola C. Mll., and Fissidens moritzianus C. Mll. are lectotypified here. 
10.2307/3242084|Localities and notes on the distribution, feeding behavior and possible ecological role are given for two lichen-feeding Tenebrionids; Stenocara eburnea Pascoe (Tribe: Adesmiini) and Calosis amabilis Deyrolle (Tribe: Zophosini) found on Teloschistes capensis Malme in the Namib Desert of South West Africa.
10.2307/3242852|A fragment of a lobe of Xanthoria parietina (L.) Th. Fr. (approx. 1 mmm
10.2307/3242058|Riccia plana, a liverwort collected from Chandragiri Hills (A.P) India, was selected for chemical analysis. The results indicate that this bryophyte is a rich source of carbohdrates and proteins, though fat is less abundant. Mineral analysis does not show any significant findings.
10.2307/3242879|Gemmalings of the thallose liverworts Marchantia polymorpha L. and Lunularia cruciata L. were treated with differing concentrations and chemical forms of vanadium. For both species, vanadium applied as the metavanadate ion (VO
10.2307/3240602|Theriotia kashmirensis and Tortula websteri are described as new. The genus Theriotia is reported for the first time outside of Korea and Japan with both T. lorifolia and the new species occurring in Kashmir. Amblystegium compactum is added to the flora of Asia. A floristic list of 60 species is given.
10.2307/3244370|Belonia uncinata P. M. McCarthy & Kantvilas, described from Tasmania, is reported as new to southern Argentina, where it occurs in Nothofagus dombeyi forests. The species is characterized by its unusually uncinate, filiform, and transversally septate ascospores.
10.2307/3244199|Leucoloma Brid. is a pantropical genus with its center of species diversity in Madagascar. A revision of the genus based on morphology resulted in the enumeration of 112 species. Fourteen species groups are distinguished and used for a phylogenetic analysis of the genus. Sixty characters and 17 taxa, including three outgroup genera, were analyzed using maximum parsimony, PAUP 3.1.1 software program. The cladistic analysis resulted in a single most parsimonious tree that provides an evolutionary hypothesis for the infrageneric relationships. Character evolution is examined within the genus and comparisons with general trends in mosses and related genera are made. Leucoloma is a morphologically diverse genus that is supported as a monophyletic taxon. The phylogeny of the infrageneric taxa is the basis for a new proposed classification. The new classification includes two subgenera 1) subg. Syncratodictyon with three sections, six subsections (including subs. Seriata subs. nov., subs. Acuminata subs. nov., and subs. Serrata subs. nov.) and four series (including ser. Teretia ser. nov., ser. Serrata ser. nov., ser. Contorta ser. nov. and ser. Holomitrioidea (Ren.) comb. nov.); 2) subg. Leucoloma with five sections. The distribution and diversity of the infrageneric taxa are examined. Nearly one-half of the species of the genus are endemic to Madagascar and the surrounding islands. This region includes both plesiomorphic and apomorphic infrageneric taxa. Leucoloma is primarily an epiphytic genus that is restricted to rainforests of tropical regions. The high proportion of endemics in the Madagascaren rainforests makes it one of the most threatened moss genera of the region.
10.2307/3244221| The pottiaceous moss Hennediella diaguita Zander & Mah is newly described from fruiting material from Chile. The concave, almost orbicular leaves, protuberant adaxial costal surface, and short, weakly twisted peristome are distinguishing traits. 
10.2307/3242775|A review of the status of Cladonia perforata in Florida reveals that this rare endemic is confined to eight land sections in southern Highlands County. The species, highly specific in habitat requirements, faces imminent extinction from escalating land development.
10.2307/3244441|The common depside atranorin and the depsidones stictic and norstictic acids were found in mycobionts of several crustose lichens cultured on medium with 10% sucrose as well as in natural lichens. Usnic acid and anthraquinone were found in other mycobionts on 0.4 and/or 10% sucrose media.
10.2307/3244457|Four chemotypes of Dimelaena oreina are reported from the analysis of 140 specimens from the Iberian Peninsula. Chemotypes II (usnic and gyrophoric acids) and V (usnic and stictic acids) were previously known from this area, but chemotype I (usnic and fumarprotocetraric acids) is new to the region, and chemotype VII (usnic, stictic, and gyrophoric acids) is new for the species. Chemical and phytogeographical evidence suggests that chemotypes V and VII are closely related. In addition to geographic distributions, phyto geographic affinities and minor morphological trends, some lichens and lichenicolous fungi growing on Dimelaena oreina chemotypes are reported.
20061139|The pattern of gemma/gemmaling ontogeny in the liverwort Blasia pusilla L. is described from its origin as a primordium within the gemma receptacle to the formation of a juvenile gametophyte. Data were obtained from herbarium specimens, field-grown and axenically cultured plants, using a combination of light and scanning electron microscopy techniques. A consistent, uniform, fundamental developmental pattern was elucidated that is characterized by the production, within the receptacle, of a discoid to ellipsoid, stalked gemma composed of distinct tiers of thick-walled cells and margined by lateral columns of thin-walled, potentially active cells. After dispersal from the receptacle, lateral growth ensues from a gemmaling initial that is produced via quadrant formation from one lateral margin cell. Ultimately, an adult cuneate apical cell is honed that generates segments the same as in the adult plant to produce the juvenile gametophyte typical of Blasia. Both the gemmaling and sporeling ontogenies of Blasia incorporate a quadrant system that is fundamental to generative cell formation. However, sporeling ontogeny is reduced as compared with that of gemmaling ontogeny in its lack of a cell comparable to the gemmaling initial, and in its less extensive, less variable basal quadrant segmentation. The existence of similar quadrant stages in the primary ontogenetic patterns of Blasia and the frequency of quadrant production in sporelings of numerous complex thalloid liverwort taxa suggest the need to precisely elucidate the primary ontogenies of these key taxa to allow comparative analyses that will aid in more accurately deducing the phylogenetic affinities of the Blasiales.
10.2307/3241119|Thirteen bryophyte species from various ecosystems on Mt. Washington, New Hampshire, were combusted in an oxygen-bomb calorimeter to determine caloric values. Mean caloric values for the ten species studied immediately following collection varied from 4305 cal/g dry weight for Thuidium delicatulum to 3747 for Dicranella heteromalla, with an overall mean of 4002 cal/g dry weight for bryophytes in general. Bryophytes rank among the lower caloric components of the ecosystem. Species transplanted to a high-humidity and high-temperature regime lost an average daily of 6.4 cal/g dry weight over a 27-day period. Unexpectedly, species in the coniferous and northern hardwoods ecosystems in all cases had higher caloric values than those in either the higher alpine ecosystem or the lower oak woods ecosystem.
20110871|Six species of Candelariella with polysporous asci are recognized from western North America. The species are: C. borealis sp. nov., C. efflorescens, C. lutella, C. placodizans, C. vitellina and C. xanthostigma. Candelariella vitellina is lectotypified. A key to the polysporous species in western North America is provided and their distribution in the study area is mapped.
10.2307/3242373|Some moss gametophores, after fixation for electron microscopy, show strong accumulation of osmium in cytoplasmic droplets. The droplets are numerous in gametophores of Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid., Tortula ruralis (Hedw.) Gaertn., Mayer & Scherb. and Hypnum curvifolium Hedw.; there are fewer in Mnium cuspidatum Hedw.; and there are none in Mnium punctatum Hedw. var. elatum Schimp. and Hygrohypnum luridum (Hedw.) Jenn. Lipid analyses of these gametophores showed a correlation between the amount of triglycerides with the occurrence of cytoplasmic droplets. The same correlation was encountered within one species. Cultures of C. purpureus had numerous cytoplasmic droplets when the triglyceride content was high, but had few when the triglyceride level was low.
10.2307/3243564|The bryophyte component of mire vegetation was analysed on 27 peatlands located on a transect from the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia to central Alberta. The habitats studied range from hyperoceanic bogs and poor fens to subcontinental moderate-rich fens. Habitat niche dimensions are calculated for 11 Sphagnum and 6 non- Sphagnum species along five climatic gradients and such ecological variables as surface water chemistry, height relative to the water table, and overstory cover. Species niche overlaps were calculated along five gradients: aridity index, corrected conductivity and pH of mire surface waters, height, and overstory cover. Habitat partitioning by Sphagnum species indicates that climate is the most important factor affecting species niches and overshadows on a regional basis such locally important ecological gradients as surface water chemistry and height relative to the water table. Niches of Sphagnum austinii, S. papillosum, S. rubellum, and S. tenellum are restricted to oceanic areas by the climate. Among non-Sphagnum species, the overstory cover, pH, conductivity, and height gradients are more extensively partitioned than the aridity index gradient. Niche shifts among widespread bog and poor fen species, and species packing along the height gradients, suggest a competitive hierarchy where: 1) Sphagnum species are better competitors than most non-Sphagnum species; 2) lawn and carpet species are better competitors than hummock species; and 3) oceanic species are better competitors than widespread species.
10.2307/3241561|Grimmia (Coscinodon) arctolimnia sp. nov., from Labine Point, Port Radium, Great Bear Lake, Northwest Territories, Canada, is most closely related to G. cribrosa Hedw., but differs from that species in the generally obtuse, subcucullate leaves, which only rarely produce a hyaline hair point, and the wrinkled capsule which lacks both peristome and annulus. Because the type population was growing on a highly mineralized cliff approximately 100 meters from an extremely rich vein of radioactive pitchblende (radium and uranium ore), it is suggested that G. arctolimnia may well be the end result of a progressive series of multiple mutations induced by natural radioactivity over a period of thousands of years.
10.2307/3240649| A lichen community in nearly absolute desert and apparently induced by fogs is described from the inland margin of the Peruvian coastal hills along the Caman-Arequipa Pan-American Highway. The dominant lichen is Teloschistes peruensis (Ach.) Thoms, comb, nov., and associated lichens are listed. 
3244692|Nomenclatural problems in the liverwort Petalophyllum are addressed. Following a review of the original description of the genus, it is concluded that Petalophyllum Nees & Gottsche ex Lehm. or simply Petalophyllum Lehm. is the correct citation for the genus. The correct citations for the two species intially placed in the genus are P. preissii Lehm. and P. ralfsii (Wilson) Nees & Gottsche ex Lehm. and a designation of P. preissii as the type species for the genus is accepted. Lectotypes are designated for P. preissii, P. ralfsii, P. bolivianum Steph., P. indicum Kashyap, and Fossombronia corbulaeformis Trab. and a neotype is designated for P. lamellatum (Nees) Lindb. Petalophyllum australe Colenso and P. macrocalyx Colenso have been proposed for rejection since there are no extant specimens of these taxa and their protologues are beset with interpretive problems.
10.2307/3244532|Anacolia menziesii (Turn.) Par. is reported for the first time from Europe at different localities. Hitherto, it was known on the American and Asian continents. The species is described and illustrated and its distribution given.
10.2307/3241943|Cultures of Microdus miquelianus (Mont.) Besch. can be maintained in a filamentous form in a medium containing organic and inorganic nutrients. Among a series of growth substances tested individually as supplements to the medium, only cytokinins initiate bud formation. Resting buds and leafy moss plants are induced under low and high cytokinin concentrations, respectively. Various light regimes do not initiate bud formation but affect bud numbers.
10.2307/3242929|Sphagnum imbricatum Hornsch. ex Russ. is separated into four species. Sphagnum imbricatum s.s. is a temperate eastern Asiatic species, S. affine Ren. & Card. is a temperate to subtropical amphiatlantic species, S. austinii Sull. is a boreal amphiatlantic and west-pacific species, and S. steerei (Flatberg) Andrus is a circumboreal arctic-subarctic species. The species are distinguished primarily by differences in comb-lamellae development in the stem cortex, stem leaves and branch cortex as well as branch cortex morphology.
10.2307/3243272|A new species of Hookeriopsis is described from western Panama: H. crosbyi has determinate branches ending in masses of gemmae, strongly plicate, nearly entire leaves, weak costae, incrassate and linear leaf cells throughout, and lacks a stem hylodermis.
10.2307/3241667|Three hundred forty-three species are reported from the Great Slave Lake region in the forest-tundra border of the interior of the Northwest Territories of Canada. Lists of species by habitat and keys to the local species of Lecanora, Lecidea, Umbilicariaceae, Pertusariaceae, Cetraria, Hypogymnia, and Parmelia are included. The range of Cetraria halei is revised and mapped for Canada. Baeomycic acid is reported in Lecidea cuprea, gyrophoric acid in L. flexuosa, psoromic acid in L. armeniaca, atranorin in L. latypiza, salazinic acid in L. lulensis, lecanoric acid in Varicellaria kemensis, and stictic acid in Pertusaria subobducens. Varicellaria kemensis is new to North America.
10.2307/3243545|Calymperes othmeri Herz. is removed from the synonymy of C. nicaraguense Ren. & Card, and reinstated as a valid species. Originally described from Guyana, it also occurs in Brazil, French Guiana, Suriname, and Venezuela.
10.2307/3240813|The distribution of five lichen communities in the Prairie Provinces and adjacent parts of the northern Great Plains show great similarity to that of vascular plant communities. The distributional limits of several lichen species closely follow those of some phanerogams. Comparisons with similar lichen communities in Eurasia suggests the possibility of disjunction of some communities through continental drift. This would imply a much slower rate of evolution for lichens than for vascular plants since many lichen species in the communities are the same on both continents but the species of vascular plants are not.
10.2307/3242240|Tortula desertorum Broth., Tortula pseudo-desertorum Froehl. and Tortula saharae Trab. are reported as taxonomic synonyms of Tortula caninervis (Mitt.) Broth. Tortula ferganensis Laz. is given the new combination Tortula handelii Schiffn. var. ferganensis (Laz.) W. Kramer. The most important character states of Tortula caninervis, Tortula pseudo-handelii Froehl., Tortula handelii and Tortula handelii var. ferganensis are compared. Tortula handelii is reported new to Iran, while T. pseudo-handelii is new to Iran, Turkey and Uzbek SSR.
10.2307/3243938|Twenty-five species of Calymperaceae are recognized for China. Identification keys and information on habitats and distributions in China are provided. Syrrhopodon spiculosus is reported new to China.
10.2307/3242424|Fascicle II of Sphagnotheca Boreali-americana is published concurrently with this article. Sphagnum lescurii Sull. includes S. auriculatum Schimp. and S. inundatum Russow. S. perfoliatum L.Sav. is considered synonymous with S. orientale L. Sav. Sphagnum subobesum is reported for the first time outside Japan.
10.2307/3243407|Some comments on a rare Chinese endemic, Anomodon dentatus Gao, are presented. Anomodon fragillimus Herz., described from Bolivia, is a synonym of Haplohymenium triste (Ces.) Kindb., while A. perarmatus Williams from Peru is a synonym of Philonotis scabrifolia (Hook. f. & Wils.) Braithw. Two new combinations are proposed: The transfer of A. tasmanicus Broth. and A. acutifolius Mitt. to the genera Triquetrella and Herpetineuron, respectively.
10.2307/3243378|In a ravine in the Robledo Mountains of southern New Mexico, five populations of Trichostomum perligulatum (Flow.) Zand, were sampled every two weeks for one year. Stem elongation, and the number, distribution, and maturity indices of antheridia, archegonia, and sporophytes were determined. Stems of this species elongated only 0.2 mm (the lowest value reported for mosses) prior to producing a sporophyte, with no subsequent growth after fertilization. On average, each stem producing a sporophyte had a growth interval consisting of 12 leaves, 3 perigonia containing 6 antheridia, and 2 archegonia. Plants were normally gonioautoicous and/or paroicous, with a protogynous period followed by a synchronous maturation of antheridia and archegonia, and finally a unisexual male period. Fertilization occurred in the late fall, with sporophyte maturation proceeding continuously until spore dispersal in the spring. Gametangial maturation, fertilization, and the bulk of sporophyte maturation occurred during the cooler months. The populations studied were probably 20-50 years old, based upon mat height and extrapolating from current growth interval measurements. Data suggest intra-stem fertilization is common.
10.2307/3243143| Parmotrema arteagum Egan is described from west-central Mexico. This new species belongs to the Parmotrema perforatum complex and is characterized by a robust thallus, the production of marginal cilia, perforate apothecia, a white lower surface, large spores and conidia, and atranorin and salazinic acid. Soredia and isidia are lacking. Parmotrema arteagum grows on branches of oak and other deciduous trees in woodlands between 600 and 900 m elevation in the state of Michoacn. 
10.2307/3242774|Electrophoretic variability in malate dehydrogenase (MDH) and peroxidase (PER) was surveyed among and within 14 described species of Riccia subgenus Riccia in the United States. Distinctive electrophoretic phenotypes were exhibited by 13 of these species. Distinctive MDH and PER phenotypes and contrasting ploidy levels support the recognition of R. dictyospora (n = 8) and R. mcallisteri (n = 16) as distinct species. Generally low but nevertheless contrasting levels of intraspecific MDH and PER variability exist among species. Geographically based genetic differentiation is evident in three species.
10.2307/3242079|Sphagnum bartlettianum Warnst. is described as a weakly minerotrophic species common in the southeastern United States. It has a minimal range overlap with the morphologically similar Sphagnum warnstorfii Russow, S. rubellum Wils., S. subtile (Russow) Warnst. and S. quinquefarium (Braithw.) Warnst. but is separable from these by its combination of acute to apiculate stem leaves and straight, narrowly ovate-lanceolate, 5-ranked branch leaves.
10.2307/3241350|Six epiphytic vegetational unions occur on northeast and southwest exposures of Pseudotsuga menziesii in mature forests of the Olympic Peninsula, Washington. The Hypnum circinale-Dicranum fuscescens-Scapania bolanderi Union and the Hypnum circinale-Dicranum fuscescens-Lepraria membranacea Union both occur in very mesic habitats. The Hypnum circinale-Lepraria membranacea Union and the Hypnum circinale-Lepraria membranacea-Sphaerophorus globosus Union occur in habitats of intermediate moisture. The lichen-dominated unions of Platismatia glauca-Parmeliopsis hyperopta-Lepraria membranacea and Alectoria sarmentosa-Parmeliopsis hyperopta-Ochrolechia tartarea-Mycoblastus sanguinarius both occur in relatively xeric habitats. The relationships between epiphytic vegetation and surrounding vascular vegetation are general; bryophyte-dominated unions occur in mesic habitats where the undergrowth is characteristic of the Polystichum munitum Union, or phases of it; and lichen-dominated unions occur in xeric habitats where the undergrowth vegetation is characteristic of the Gaultheria shallon Union, or phases of it. Epiphytic species are differentially affected by both vertical and horizontal environmental gradients. Species exhibiting marked preferences for certain positions along such gradients include Hypnum circinale, Scapania bolanderi, Alectoria sarmentosa, A. fremontii, Lepraria membranacea, and Mycoblastus sanguinarius. Since distributions of epiphytic bryophytes and lichens are influenced by microclimatic variations not necessarily discerned in the vascular vegetation, the plants are potentially valuable as indicators.
10.2307/3241569|A recent catalog of the lichens reported from Venezuela was incomplete in that 47 epiphyllous species reported by Santesson (1952) were omitted. These are reported here.
20110782|A novel protocol for the rapid extraction of bryophyte DNA is presented and tested on nine mosses and one liverwort. Amplification products and sequences of the rps4 gene were obtained for all the samples tested. Direct amplification and sequencing of DNA from a single dwarf male was found to be possible. By adding single dwarf males of Dicranum scoparium directly to a PCR, amplification products of the ITS regions were obtained for nine of the 11 dwarf males tested. To obtain different gene sequences from a single dwarf male, individual dwarf males were incubated in buffer at 60C for different time periods and the resulting suspensions used for amplification of the chloroplast regions trnG and trnL-F. Amplification products of the trnG region were obtained for all the samples, but amplification of the trnL-F region was less successful. Clean DNA sequences were obtained from all the amplification products that were used in bi-directional sequencing. The rapid method presented has the potential to be a useful tool for screening high numbers of plants for specific genomic markers, such as in DNA barcoding. Direct amplification of DNA provides the opportunity for the first time to study genetic variation among moss dwarf males.
10.2307/3243865|The new lichenicolous ascomycete Haleomyces oropogonicola D. Hawksw. & Essl., gen. et sp. nov., is described from thalli of Oropogon lopezii Essl. collected in Mexico and Venezuela. It is characterized by superficial perithecioid ascomata connected by stromatic tissue, periphyses, thin-walled I- asci, and colorless 1-septate ascospores. The systematic position of the fungus is problematic, but it is hesitatingly referred to Verrucariales. No lichenicolous fungi have previously been reported on Oropogon, but a synopsis of other fungi known from other alectorioid lichens is included.
10.2307/3242609|This new checklist of the lichen-forming, lichenicolous and allied fungi for the continental United States and Canada includes 3,409 accepted taxa in 401 genera. Seventy-eight of these taxa represent lichenicolous or allied fungi. The single alphabetical list contains hundreds of synonyms and excluded names together with the accepted taxa. Sixty-four new combinations are proposed in the genera Acrocordia, Anisomeridium, Anthracothecium, Arthopyrenia, Aspicilia, Catinaria, Ditremis, Enterographa, Fuscidea, Heterodermia, Hubbsia, Julella, Lecidella, Lepraria, Melanelia, Micarea, Mycoporum, Ocellularia, Parmentaria, Plagiocarpa, Polymeridium, Pyrenocollema, Pyrenula, Rinodina, Strigula, Tomasellia, and Tuckermannopsis.
10.2307/3242024|The operations of the Dave Johnston coal-fired powerplant near Glenrock, Wyoming, have had a measurable effect on trace-element concentrations in Parmelia chlorochroa Tuck., which is common to the area. Concentrations of 35 elements were measured in samples collected along upwind and downwind transects. Of these elements, concentrations of calcium, fluorine, lithium, selenium, strontium and uranium, as well as ash yields, decreased with distance from the powerplant. Compared to background levels established for this lichen from the Powder River Basin, only the selenium values near the powerplant are considered unusually high.
3244805|The genus Menegazzia comprises five species in Taiwan, three of which are newly described: M. anteforata, M. primaria, and M. pseudocyphellata. All new species have the stictic acid complex chemistry, two-spored asci, bifusiform conidia, and lack soredia and isidia. They differ in medullary hyphae color, perforation shape and size, and apothecium margin ornamentation, as well as by gross morphology of the thallus and lobe configuration.
43188829|This study was an investigation of epiphytic lichen communities in mid-rotation (45 to 55 years old) managed stands of jack pine (Pinus banksiana) and black spruce (Picea mariana) in northern Ontario. Lichen community structure was compared between pine and spruce stands, and relationships between community structure and environment (substrate, microclimate, and stand-level parameters) were explored. We also assessed habitat associations of lichens with differing growth forms and functional traits. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling was used to analyze community structure, and results showed that differences between pine and spruce stands were most strongly related to stand basal area and light levels, but were also associated with other factors such as branch diameter. In addition, distinct differences in occurrence patterns between functional groups were observed, with fruticose lichens more common in pine stands, and asexual foliose lichens more common in spruce stands. This study represents the first detailed examination of epiphytic lichen community composition in boreal plantation forests in North America. Our results suggest that the conifer species chosen to regenerate a harvested stand will influence epiphytic lichen communities, which may have further implications for ecosystem processes such as nutrient cycling, and for wildlife species dependent on lichens, such as woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou).
10.2307/3242771|An enumeration of and key to North American (West of the Hundredth Meridian) species of Lepidoziaceae are presented. A discussion of the distinguishing characteristics and a distribution map of each taxon is provided from the specimens examined. A total of 16 taxa (12 species, a variety, and 3 forms) is reviewed here. Bazzania pearsonii fo. krajinai, B. pearsonii fo. schofieldii, B. tricrenata var. fulfordiae, and B. tricrenata fo. vittii are newly described. Bazzania denudata is reported new to California, Kurzia pauciflora new to British Columbia, K. sylvatica new to Alaska and Washington, K. trichoclados new to North America, and Lepidozia filamentosa new to Washington.
10.2307/3243709|Polytrichum commune Hedw. is susceptible to attack by Myzodium modestum Hottes, a moss aphid. Scanning electron micrographs indicate that aphids feed by insertion of needlelike stylets into moss gametophores. Liquid scintillation analysis indicates that aphids draw upon labelled tracers following
10.2307/3243106|There are two basic patterns of germination in each major group of liverworts, namely exosporous and endosporous types. Of the two, the endosporous germination pattern is usually found in epiphytic or saxicolous liverworts, as is also the case in mosses. The endosporous germination pattern seems to result from parallel evolution in phylogenetically unrelated groups of liverworts. This pattern may be correlated with the ecological parameters of xeric habitats, except for taxa such as Trichocoleopsis, Pellia, Cavicularia and Conocephalum, which usually grow in moist terrestrial conditions. These taxa may be considered to be revertant bryophytes, which had originally acquired the character for adaptation to xeric environments, but have since undergone habitat modification.
10.2307/3242246|Spore morphology and sporeling development in Cyathodium aureonitens have been described. Earlier investigations of sporeling development in Cyathodium Kunze suggested that spores required dormancy for 9 months before germinating but, new data indicate that freshly collected spores of C. aureonitens germinated in one week. The sporecoat rupture is irregular. Germ-rhizoid precedes germ-tube or cell mass formation and is of the Targionia type. Sporeling development parallels either of two patterns: 1. Initially a germ-tube is formed which subsequently develops into a multicellular germ-disc. 2. A cell mass may be formed directly. Developmental coincidence with Fossombroniaceae (Metzgeriales) may be phylogenetically significant.
10.2307/3243496| Sphagnum (section Sphagnum) tabuleirense sp. nov. is described from the State of Paraba, northern Brazil. It is distinguished from other species of the section by single branches, stem and branch leaves bordered by a resorption furrow and having a similar porosity, and green cells of branch leaves somewhat more broadly exposed on the inner surface. 
3244341|Grimmia herzogii Broth., synonyms G. nigella Herzog, and G. trollii Herzog, is described, and contrasted with G. longirostris Hook. Although these two names have been considered by some as synonyms, they are here recognized as distinct species.
3244290|The new species L. lichexanthona Guderley, L. notatica Guderley, L. rabaotoides Guderley, and L. xanthoplumosa Guderley are described from tropical South America. All the new species have unusual chemistries. Confluentic, notatic, and subnotatic acids present in L. notatica and norlichexanthone present in L. lichexanthona have not been reported previously for the L. subfusca group.
10.2307/3242593|The exclusively American species Collema pustulatum Ach. is recorded in far northern Queensland, Australia.
10.2307/3241415|Specimens of Peltigera canina collected from locations exposed to direct sunlight for several hours a day contained less chlorophyll a, phycoerythrin (PE), and phycocyanin (PC) per unit dry weight of thallus than specimens collected from dense cedar stands. The ratio of PE to chlorophyll was higher in shade specimens than in sun specimens, while the ratio of PC to chlorophyll was the same from both habitats.
40732255|UV spectroscopy confirmed that the lichen-derived pulvinic acid derivative epanorin forms complexes with metal ions (Cu , Fe , Fe, Mg , Mn , Zn) at two binding sites both under acidic and alkaline conditions. Similar observations in rhizocarpic acid suggest that the amino acid moieties in both epanorin and rhizocarpic acid are responsible for metal binding at low pH, whereas pulvinic acids without an amino acid moiety bind only to metal ions under alkaline conditions. Metal complexation at low pH is thought to enable lichens with epanorin or rhizocarpic acid to colonize acidic, nutrient-poor substrata, whereas lichens with pulvinic acids without an amino acid moiety prefer either neutral to alkaline or acidic but nutrient-rich substrata. High dissociation constants of epanorin (pK = 4.9) and rhizocarpic acid (pK = 4.5) in methanol suggest that the amino acid groups in these substances prevent them from acting as a protonophore. Otherwise the relatively high pK values of epanorin and rhizocarpic acid would result in damage of lichens containing these substances at low pH, which is not observed.
10.2307/3243832|The moss Neckera intermedia Brid. was discovered in the abdominal cavity of North America's only Guanche mummy (RED-1), which is housed in the Redpath Museum, McGill University, Montreal. The mummy, from the Canary Islands, was
10.2307/3243518|Chlorophyll degradation and electrolyte leakage were measured for the umbilicate desert lichen Rhizoplaca melanophthalma (Ram.) Leuck. & Poelt in the vicinity of a coal-fired power plant near Page, Arizona. Patterns of lichen damage indicated by chlorophyll degradation were similar to those indicated by electrolyte leakage. Regression analyses of chlorophyll degradation as well as electrolyte leakage on distance from the power plant were significant (p < 0.001), suggesting that lichen damage decreased with increasing distance from the power plant. Mean values for both variables at the two sites closest to the power plant (7 and 12 km) differed significantly from values for the two sites farthest from the plant (21 and 42 km; p < 0.001). Mean values within each group (7 and 12 km; 21 and 42 km) do not differ significantly for either parameter. It is suggested that effluents from the power plant combine with local weather factors to produce the observed levels of damage.
41486716|The generitype Syzygiella perfoliata and S. concreta share the same gross morphology but are only loosely related in molecular phylogenies. Based on an nrlTS maximum likelihood phylogeny we identify accessions belonging to either the Syzygiella concreta or the S. perfoliata lineage. We use these DNA vouchers to recircumscribe both species and present morphological characters that allow for their identification. Differences have been seen in the development of the stem cortex, the insertion of the leaves, presence or absence of rudimentary amphigastria, size and shape of the leaf cell wall trigones, and papillosity of the leaf cuticle.
10.2307/3243344|To test hypotheses of the relative advantages of sexual and asexual reproduction, the reproductive ecology of Dicranum flagellare is compared to that of Tetraphis pellucida. Both species share a habitat preference for decaying logs of the forest floor, but they differ in reproductive mode. In D. flagellare asexual reproduction predominates, whereas T. pellucida produces both sexual and asexual propagules. The ecological consequences of reliance on asexual reproduction are explored: dispersal, colonization, and spatial distribution. The asexual brood branches of D. flagellare successfully colonize gaps produced by disturbance, but only when D. flagellare is present in the nearby vegetation. The local distribution of D. flagellare is limited to spatially aggregated substrates, whereas T. pellucida is widely dispersed. Dicranum flagellare invests significantly more biomass in asexual reproduction, but the overall reproductive effort of T. pellucida exceeds that of D. flagellare. Brood branches of D. flagellare germinate significantly more rapidly than Tetraphis gemmae. Dicranum flagellare persists longer than T. pellucida in log communities, perhaps as a result of accumulation of perennial shoot increments.
10.2307/3242488| Nine species of Stictaceae have been investigated for their soluble nitrogen compounds (amino acids, amides and trimethylamine). Glutamic acid and amides are the most abundant -amino compounds. Only five species can liberate trimethylamine. In Lobaria discolor (Boty in Del.) Hue, the amount of this tertiary amine is higher than the total of free amino acids and amides. 
3244731|A new lichenicolous species, Plectocarpon peltigerae, growing on Peltigera leucophlebia thalli, is described from Canada and Russia.
25614866|To better understand associations between epiphytes and old forests, lichens and bryophytes that grow on tree bark were quantified in relatively undisturbed stands of Acadia National Park (ACAD). Four plots were dominated by hardwoods and eight by spruce. To obtain data from upper boles, we climbed four maple trees per plot (eight plots) and four spruce trees per plot (four of the eight plots). We found 85 macrolichen species and 62 bryophyte taxa (60 species, two varieties). Eight macrolichens are newly documented from ACAD. At the state-level, Acadia NP plots were notably species-rich including 15 species not found in 50 other plots in Maine surveyed using the USDA FS Forest Inventory and Analysis Program (FIA) lichen protocol. At the plot-level, the epiphyte flora of spruce-dominated plots differed significantly from that of hardwood-dominated plots, although species richness was comparable. At the tree-level, the epiphyte flora of maple trees was significantly influenced by tree composition within the surrounding stand. Mixed composition of tree species in the stand correlated with higher epiphyte diversity. Cyanolichens were more likely to occur on large hardwood trees in hardwood-dominated plots. Fruticose lichen occurrence was influenced by interactions between tree size, plot and tree species. Using comprehensive tree tally searches in combination with climbing of four maples per plot, we found that we missed an average of 15% of the macrolichen flora in the search area using only the two-hour timed survey required by the FIA protocol. This study serves as an important baseline for detecting future changes in the epiphyte flora of ACAD and further highlights the importance of mature mixed stands to epiphyte conservation in northern forests of eastern North America.
10.2307/3242075| The following hepatics were recently collected in northern British Columbia: Eremonotus myriocarpus (Carring.) Lindb. et Pears, in Pears., Gymnomitrion apiculatum (Schiffn.) K.Mll., Marsupella condensata (ngstr.) Schiffn., Odontoschisma macounii (Aust.) Underw., Plagiochila arctica Bryhn et Kaal., Radula prolifera S.Arnell, Scapania simmonsii Bryhn et Kaal. and Scapania spitzbergensis (Lindb.) K.Mll. Eremonotus myriocarpus is also reported from Washington State. Extensions of individual ranges for many of these species southward into British Columbia from primarily unglaciated arctic or northern arctic-alpine distributions imply that the possibility of localized glacial refugia in an area long thought completely glaciated may have to be considered along with any type of postglacial recolonization in an attempt to explain phytogeographic relations of these plants. 
10.2307/3243786|Crossidium seriatum (Pottiaceae) is newly reported for California, and eleven taxa of mosses and liverworts are reported for the first time from southern California. Fourteen additional bryophytes are new records for San Diego County, California.
10.2307/3241909| A survey of the literature from 1869 to 1974 in which species of mosses from Bolivia have been documented with citation of specimens indicates a known flora of 1222 species. The following new combinations and new name are proposed: Atractylocarpus spiripes (C. Mll.) comb, nov., Atrichum nigricans (Herz.) comb. nov., Erythrodontium brasiliense (Hampe) Par. fo. brevipes (Herz.) comb. nov., Grimmia boliviana (Broth. in Herz.) comb. nov., Mittenothamnium burelae (Herz.) comb. nov., M. hookerioides (Herz.) comb. nov., M. tenellum nom. nov., Pohlia clavicaulis (Broth. in Herz.) comb. nov., P. loriformis (Herz.) comb. nov., P. subleptopoda (Broth, in Herz.) comb. nov. and Rauiella bornii (Herz.) comb. nov. 
3244141|Constant extreme leaf dimorphism in the moss family Calymperaceae, involving evolution of the gemmiferous leaf of some species into a rod-like essentially naked costa or a narrow tube-like or channeled shaft, occurs more or less consistently in five species of Calymperes and six species of Syrrhopodon world wide (approximately eight percent of the species of the family), but not in the closely related genus Mitthyridium. Such highly derived gemmiferous leaves-referred to here as stenophylls-are an evolutionary phenomenon that is not known for any other group of mosses. The stenophylls bear the gemmae on their tips, are rigidly erect both wet and dry, are generally longer than and mostly have smaller areas of cancellinae than the vegetative leaves. The principal functional-evolutionary benefit of this type of extreme leaf dimorphism may be the constant (plants hydrated or desiccated) presentation of the gemmae for dispersion elevated above the potentially trapping tangle of vegetative leaves of the moss turf. Also, some of the stenophylls can store water transiently in tubes or channels. The stenophylls presumably play only a minor role in photosynthesis due to their lack or near lack of green lamina; thus reduction of overall photosynthetic area per plant is a consequence of strongly expressed specialization for asexual reproduction in these dioicous mosses. Likewise, reduction in water-retaining capacity per plant is a consequence of reduction in area of the cancellinae of stenophylls. Four of the extreme leaf-dimorphic Calymperes species occur in Malesia and one in tropical America; one of the extreme leaf-dimorphic Syrrhopodon species occurs in Malesia, three in tropical America, one in eastern North America, and one in eastern Africa (including the island of Mauritius).
10.2307/3244534| Mielichhoferia paroica Shaw & Allen is described from Costa Rica. The plants are very small, paroicous, and have a double peristome that consists of 16 long, papillose exostome teeth and a rudimentary basal membrane that barely reaches above the capsule rim. Mielichhoferia paroica is the only known species of Mielichhoferia that is not dioicous. Brachymenium gemmifarum Shaw & Buck is described from Runion. Plants of this species are extremely slender, and have red capsules with a double peristome consisting of long exostome teeth and a high endostomial membrane but no well-defined segments. It differs from all other species of Brachymenium in having axillary, obconic gemmae. 
10.2307/3244452|Eighteen species of the lichen genus Heterodermia in the Sonoran Desert and surrounding areas are described. Morphology, anatomy, chemistry, distribution, habitat, relation to other taxa, and biogeography are discussed. A key to the species is presented. One species, H. lineare, is described as new.
10.2307/3241890|Entodon cladorrhizans (Hedw.) C. Muell. is reported for the first time from Alaska, a major extension of its geographic range. Although common in Europe, E. concinnus (De Not.) Paris was long considered an unusually rare species in North America; however, it is common and widespread in the Brooks Range of Arctic Alaska and on its North Slope. As a consequence of this expanded pattern of geographic distribution in North America, E. concinnus is now to be interpreted as an arctic species of northernmost Alaska with disjunct outliers in mountainous areas as far south as North Carolina and New Mexico. This species is also reported for the first time from New Guinea.
10.2307/3242951| There are 57 species and varieties in the known moss flora of the Tehuacn Valley; one of them, Phascum brittoniae, is new to the country. Their distribution in Mexico north of the 19-20N line does not lend support to the hypothesis that the Neovolcanic Belt has served as a barrier to moss migration between southern and northern valleys. 
10.2307/3241214|Omphalodium arizonicum (Tuck. ex Will.) Tuck. is reported for the first time from the Sandia Mountains northeast of Albuquerque, New Mexico, and its presently known distribution in the United States is mapped.
10.2307/3243792|Foliar axillary "hairs" are described from a specimen of Didymodon tophaceus from Arkansas.
10.2307/3241536|Lobaria hallii (Tuck.) Zahlbr., Pseudocyphellaria anomala Magn., and P. anthraspis (Ach.) Magn. are reported as new records from Idaho. The Pseudocyphellarias were collected in areas of relict vascular plants.
20110909|Hypogymnia canadensis Goward & McCune is described as a new species of lichenized fungi from the west coast of North America, ranging from southeastern Alaska to western Oregon, inland to southeastern British Columbia. In many respects similar to H. metaphysodes (Asahina) Rass., H. canadensis is distinguished from that species by an imbricate growth form, more open branching, lobe tips that readily become brown in exposed sites, a darker ceiling of the lobe cavity, and the presence of 3-hydroxyphysodic acid in the medulla (K+ slowly reddish brown). So far H. canadensis is known from conifers in cool suboceanic to oceanic climates.
10.2307/3243519|An enumeration of and key to the western North American taxa of Calypogeiaceae are presented. A discussion of the distinguishing characteristics and a distribution map of each taxon are provided from the specimens examined. A total of 11 taxa (8 species, 1 subspecies, and 2 forms) are reviewed. Calypogeia muelleriana fo. schofieldii and C. muelleriana fo. shieldsii are newly described. The following are new reports: C. azurea in Northwest Territories; C. fissa subsp. neogaea in California, Oregon, and Washington; C. integristipula in California, Colorado, Northwest Territories, and Oregon; C. muelleriana in Saskatchewan and Wyoming; C. neesiana in California, Northwest Territories, and Yukon Territory; and C. sphagnicola in Oregon.
3244798|To assess the effects of high temperature stress on membrane permeability in mosses, we studied Plagiomnium acutum (Lindb.) T. Kop. and Thuidium cymbifolium (Doz. & Molk.) Doz. & Molk. in May and June 2001, using changes in conductivity measurements of the medium. The relative membrane permeability increased with the treatment duration within the range of 40-60 C. The higher the temperature, the more quickly the relative permeability increased. Regression curves indicate that the relationship between the relative percent permeability and temperature are S-shaped and fit a logistic model. The 50% injury temperatures (IT
10.2307/3244105|Three species of the moss genus Coscinodon (Grimmiaceae) are recognized from South America. Coscinodon pseudocribrosus is here described as new. All three species are endemic to the Andes. Coscinodon trinervis is retained in Coscinodon.
3244574|Previously published accounts of Riccia crystallina in North America, north of Mexico have all been found to represent plants referable to R. cavernosa. This note represents the first verified report of R. crystallina for this geographic region.
10.2307/3241725|The lichen Physcia luganensis Meresch., known previously only from Europe, is widespread in temperate eastern North America. The species is described and contrasted with those other members of the North American flora with which it is most likely to be confused, P. orbicularis and P. nigricans.
41486713|Cladonia litoralis is described as new to science. This conspicuous "cushion-like" lichen was found on granitic rocks in the rocky shore of Santa Catarina State, southern Brazil. A description of the species is given together with notes on its chemistry, ecology and taxonomy. Related taxa are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3241138| A total of 403 species of bryophytes is listed from Colombia with mention of additional species from adjacent regions. Two new genera, Kingiobryum (Dicranaceae) and Kingiolejeunea (Lejeuneaceae), are described, and two subgenera, Stokesiella of Eurhynchium and Perilejeunea of Pycnolejeunea, are raised to generic rank. The genus Osculatia is restored, being removed from the synonymy of Brachymenium. Four new species of mosses (Kingiobryum paramicola, Campylopus cuatrecasii, C. kingii, and Tortula kingii) and five new species of hepatics (Plagiochila cuatrecasii, P. quevarii, P. jaramillii, Prionolejeunea cuatrecasii, and Kingiolejeunea ornata) are described. One new name, Isopterygium irelandii (for I. aquaticum Robins.), and 15 new combinations are provided: Campylopus strictulus (C. Mll.), Bryoerythrophyllum angustulum (Herz.), Mielichhoferia antisanensis (Bartr.), Rhynchostegium pulchellum (Hedw.), R. semiscabrum (Bartr.), Stokesiella praelonga (Hedw.), S. oregana (Sull.), S. brittoniae (Grout), S. arbuscula (Broth.), Neohypnella diversifolia (Mitt.), Trichosteleum cyparissoides (Hornsch.), Glossadelphus abruptus (Mitt.), Perilejeunea grandistipula (Steph.), P. dentata (Robins.), and P. granatensis (Steph.). Keys are provided for Colombian species of various genera including Bartramia, Breutelia, Campylopus, Leptodontium, Philonotis, Pogonatum, Polytrichadelphus, and Prionodon. The distinctions and distribution of many of the species are discussed. 
3244288|Bryophytes have been powerful experimental tools for the elucidation of complex biological processes. Analysis of organisms from these ancient clades is an active and ongoing enterprise that will provide greater insight into the development, physiology, phylogenetics, and stress-induced cellular responses of plants. To maintain their relevance as experimental models, the analysis of mosses must expand to include modern molecular tools such as a knowledge of the genome via large-scale DNA sequencing, the ability to create transgenic individuals via transformation, and the capability to create gene knock-outs by homologous recombination. The availability of these molecular tools is limited when compared to flowering plants. However, in mosses such as Physcomitrella patens, Funaria hygrometrica, Ceratodon purpureus, and Tortula ruralis these tools are rapidly being developed for the study of molecular genetics. Efficient targeted gene disruption (i.e., homologous recombination) is a well-established tool in both yeast and murine cells that until recently was unknown in any plant model system. Recently, Schaefer and Zryd (1997) demonstrated that efficient homologous recombination occurs in P. patens. The ability to perform efficient homologous recombination in P. patens is at present unique amongst all plants and represents an extremely powerful technique for the functional analysis of plant genes.
10.2307/3244101|Cladonia floridana has been misidentified as other taxa in section Perviae including C. atlantica, C. beaumontii, and C. carassensis. Mature thalli of C. atlantica can vary greatly and branching patterns are often obscured by variability. In southeastern Massachusetts, C. floridana occurs sympatrically with C. atlantica. The two species differ chemically, but are often difficult to distinguish morphologically. Cladonia floridana, which is characteristically ascyphose with a symmetrical branching pattern, may approach C. atlantica, with scyphoid openings and asymmetrical branching. In spite of the variability in mature C. floridana, it can be distinguished from other species such as C. atlantica by comparing the meristem initials, which are the primary arrangement of meristematic tissue that ultimately give rise to branches. The apical meristem of C. floridana divides in a synchronous, symmetrical pattern, but meristematic divisions in C. atlantica are asynchronous and asymmetrical. These patterns result in unique meristem initials that provide a reliable taxonomic feature. Meristem initials, which partly determine podetial morphology, are less variable than branching patterns.
10.2307/3243605|Net photosynthetic (NP) response in the subalpine moss Pohlia wahlenbergii (Web. & Mohr) Andr. showed pronounced patterns of diel periodicity under midsummer conditions. Rates of light-saturated NP uptake were highest in the early morning hours, at 8 mg CO
10.2307/3243838|Philonotis buckii, a previously undescribed species from southern Mexico, has a globose, leptodermous, irregularly rugulose capsule with a double peristome. The gametophytes are dioicous. This particular combination of features is unique in the genus and further closes the conceptual distance between Philonotis and the previously recognized genus Bartramidula.
10.2307/3243640|Pterygoneurum macleanum Warnstorf and P. kemsleyi Willis, two taxa with austral distribution, from South Africa and Australia, respectively, are identical in all taxonomical characters. Phytogeographical considerations are offered.
10.2307/3243123|Entosthodon steerei Fife, sp. nov., from the Ecuadorian Andes is characterized by an inclined, obovoid capsule with a nearly transverse mouth and a weakly differentiated neck, a unique spore ornamentation pattern, and strongly bordered leaves. Its affinities lie with species traditionally placed in the Plagiodus group of Funaria sensu Brotherus.
20110855|In northern Patagonia, macrolichens form species-rich and abundant epiphytic communities in southern beech forests. Five of the most abundant lichen species in the litter were selected in order to study mass loss rate and changes in mineral composition over time. The litter bag method was applied to the foliose lichens Pseudocyphellaria faveolata, Pseudocyphellaria flavicans, Nephroma antarcticum, Platismatia glauca and the fruticose Protousnea magellanica. Decomposition was measured over 550- and 600-day periods, starting in early and late summer, respectively. Mass loss after these periods varied from 30 to 82%. The decomposition rate between species differed from a half-life of 2.9 years in Pseudocyphellaria faveolata to 0.8 years in Protousnea magellanica and Plastismatia glauca. Samples deposited in early summer had a higher initial mass loss compared to samples deposited in late summer. After this initial loss, all species showed a similar temporal pattern with higher decomposition rates in winter and spring than in summer and fall. Pseudocyphellaria faveolata, Pseudocyphellaria flavicans and Nephroma antarcticum contain nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria and had a considerably higher N concentration and lower C/N ratio than Platismatia glauca and Protousnea magellanica. However, the latter species had a faster mass loss. Changes in macronutrient concentrations were small apart from a rapid loss of P and K in Pseudocyphellaria spp. and increasing Ca and Mg concentrations in Platismatia glauca and Protousnea magellanica. We conclude that seasonal climatic variations partly control the decomposition pattern but that the time of litterfall strongly influences the initial decay rate.
25614892|Katahdin, the highest peak in Maine at 1606 m, has about 13 km (1300 ha) of alpine and subalpine tundra and krummholz on a summit plateau and in upper cirque basins. Lichens and bryophytes have been collected above tree line since the mid-19th century, but the cryptogam biota of the mountain has remained incompletely documented. For 16 days during 2001-2004 we inventoried lichens and bryophytes of the subalpine and alpine zones of Katahdin (above 884 m), visiting open alpine tundra, alpine cliffs in glacial cirques, seeps, fellfields, krummholz and subalpine forests. We relocated most species represented by historic collections and added many more to the documented biota, including significant range extensions and species new to North America or northeastern United States. The floristic results are presented in two associated papers. Here we (1) summarize previous studies of the botany, ecology and geology of Katahdin; (2) compare quadrats from a Diapensia heath in exposed alpine tundra on the Table Land with a snow bed community just below the Table Land, where a marked difference in the bryophyte and lichen assemblages may reflect cryptogam-vascular plant interactions and/or site-specific differences; and (3) summarize unpublished weather data collected at the Chimney Pond Ranger Station (ca. 890 m). Katahdin and Mt. Washington, New Hampshire, have similar recent temperature and precipitation records on the basis of the available data. Katahdin shares some vegetation components and climate features with mountain ranges in the Pacific Northwest, New Zealand and the Scottish Highlands that have been studied for lichens and/or bryophytes.
10.2307/3242857|Four lichens-Parmelia bolliana Mull. Arg., Physcia stellaris (L.) Nyl., Xanthoria fallax (Hepp) Arn., and Physconia grisea (Lam.) Poelt-listed in order of decreasing mesophytism, were fumigated for 4 hr at 0.01, 0.1, 1.0, and 2.5 ppm sulfur dioxide to determine the effects on photosynthesis, respiration, and chlorophyll content. The lichens had been collected from Populus deltoides Marsh or Tilia americana L. in northeastern South Dakota near a lignite-fired power generator. Photosynthesis decreased after fumigation at 1.0 and 2.5 ppm, but significant decreases occurred only after fumigation at 2.5 ppm. Expressed on the basis of per unit weight chlorophyll content, photosynthesis of Physconia grisea was most sensitive followed by that of Xanthoria fallax, Physcia stellaris and Parmelia bolliana. Expressed on the basis of per unit dry weight of lichen sample, photosynthesis of Physconia grisea was most sensitive followed by Xanthoria fallax, Physcia stellaris, and Parmelia bolliana. In both cases, the more xerophytic species were more sensitive. Chlorophyll content in these species was not measurably altered by fumigation. Comparison of chlorophyll a and b absorption spectra peaks for fumigated and control samples indicated that no phaeophytinisation occurred. Insignificant and inconsistent differences in chlorophyll a/b ratios were observed. Respiration of Physcia stellaris and Parmelia bolliana decreased significantly following fumigation with 2.5 ppm SO
10.2307/3243787|The current understanding of the California bryophyte flora has derived principally from three sources: 1) Government-sponsored expeditions (including foreign, federal, and state governments) charged with exploring the biota of the state; 2) individual efforts by California citizens, including amateur and professional botanists; and 3) professional training and research at California's universities. Discussion of these facets of the history of bryology is supplemented by a list of the people for whom California bryophytes have been named, a list of recent master's degree theses on California bryophytes, and a list of California herbaria with 500 or more bryophyte specimens.
10.2307/3242881|The inland extension of Pacific maritime influence along the U.S.-Canada border supports a distinctive lichen flora. Previously reported in North America from only near-coastal locations Bacidia herrei, Caloplaca atrosanguinea, Pannaria mediterranea, and Toninia squalida were found in the Bitterroot Mountains of Montana and Idaho. Also new to the Rocky Mountains are Hydrothyria venosa and Umbilicaria havaasii. Disjunct populations of some arctic-alpine species and an anomalous Buellia were found on peaks and ridges.
10.2307/3240772|Ninety specimens, including all available vouchers, of Climacium from west-central Canada were all found to belong to C. dendroides (Hedw.) Web. & Mohr. Reports of C. americanum Brid. from the region are apparently erroneous.
10.2307/3243648|Three tree species (Picea sitchensis, Thuja plicata, and Tsuga heterophylla) near hot springs were examined for epiphytic bryophyte abundance and diversity on Queen Charlotte Islands. Cover was recorded at four heights up to 5 m, and on branches on the north and south sides of each tree. Eleven species of mosses and 25 species of hepatics were found. Cover was greater for mosses than hepatics but mosses had lower beta diversity. Bryophyte species composition differed by tree species, with species richness increasing in the order Tsuga, Picea, and Thuja. The similarity of mosses, and the dissimilarity of hepatics, on the north and south sides of trees, suggest relatively subtle differences in moisture conditions. Ordinations indicate that epiphytic bryophytes followed a tree-position gradient that is closely related to a vertical gradient. Several species typical of log and forest floor habitats were found as branch epiphytes. Our findings support the previous observation that the vertical gradient in species composition parallels macroclimatic and successional gradients.
10.2307/3242313|Gigaspermum mouretii Corb. is newly reported from Israel, adding to scattered previous records from western Mediterranean countries. Other binomials-all from the Southern Hemisphere-recorded in the genus should be considered synonyms of G. repens (Hook.) Lindb.; G. tumidum (Mitt.) Lindb. is a synonym of Pleurophascum grandiglobum Lindb. Some doubts are expressed as to whether or not G. mouretii and G. repens should be treated as separate species.
3244615|The new species, L. demosthenesii Lumbsch & Messuti, L. guderleyi Lumbsch & Messuti, L. pallidochlorina Nash, Ryan & Lumbsch, L. pseudachroa Lumbsch & Messuti, and L. ryanii Nash & Lumbsch, are described. Descriptions for L. carneolutescens and L. orizabana are provided. These overlooked species are new to the U.S.A.
10.2307/3241559|Forty-three species of lichenized fungi and 7 genera are published for Colorado for the first time. New records for Montana, New Mexico, Washington, and Mexico are also reported. Mycoblastus tornoensis is a new combination.
10.2307/3242482| Eighteen species of foliicolous lichens are newly reported from the Hawaiian Islands. The range of Tapellaria epiphylla (Mll. Arg.) Sant. and T. nana (Fee) Sant. is extended to include Oahu and Maui. The microconidial stage of Strigula melanobapha (Kremp.) Sant., previously unknown, is described. 
10.2307/3243900|The regenerative abilities, establishment rates, and responses of establishment to nitrogen and phosphorus gradients differ appreciably when compared experimentally among five species of peatland mosses. Aulacomnium palustre exhibited the highest regenerative ability and continued to exhibit high presence throughout the experiment due to continuous development of propagules and wide tolerance range to nutrients. Drepanocladus aduncus established relatively quickly but declined in response to increases in other species. Sphagnum angustifolium and Polytrichum strictum exhibited low establishment rates but increased in frequency throughout the experiment. Sphagnum magellanicum regenerated poorly. Nitrogen inputs had greater effects than did phosphorus and strongly inhibited regeneration and establishment of all species except A. palustre. Phosphorus inputs had positive effects on D. aduncus and S. angustifolium but no effects on A. palustre and P. strictum. The different abilities to utilize nutrient resources over a temporal scale may help determine the mature vegetation patterns in peatlands. Nutrient gradients, especially nitrogen, during the establishment phase of these mosses may be a critical attribute in determining the distribution of these and other peatland species.
10.2307/3244107|Cryptothallus hirsutus is described as a new species from Costa Rica differing from C. mirabilis of oceanic northwestern Europe in its indehiscent capsules with no elaterophore and spores not coherent as tetrads. The faintly green gametophytes are particularly hairy and rhizoidal on both surfaces. The wide disjunction of these two underground species, surely disadvantaged in spore dispersal, supports recognition at a specific level.
41486726|Fissidens pseudoplurisetus is described and illustrated from the Atlantic Forest in eastern Brazil. The species belongs to subgenus Aloma and is similar to F. leptophyllus. The distinguishing features of the species include: bryoides type costa; scariosus type peristome; bi-to tristratose limbidium on all laminae; mammillose laminai cells; polysetose habit; and, cylindrical thecae.
10.2307/3241209|Arachidonic and 5,8,11,14,17-eicosapentaenoic acids are highly unsaturated fatty acids which occur in lipids of mosses, liverworts, and ferns, but not in seed plants. The lipids of Mnium cuspidatum, M. medium, Polytrichum juniperinum, Marchantia polymorpha, and Matteuccia struthiopteris were studied and the content of the highly unsaturated acids determined in several tissues of these species. Arachidonic acid was found in all tissues, mostly at levels of 10-30% of total fatty acids. Except for Mnium medium and the Marchantia, the pentaenoic acid was at a considerably lower level than arachidonic acid and very little of it was found in nonphotosynthesizing tissue.
10.2307/3240993|Fissidens asplenioides Hedw., new to the flora of the United States, has been found in Mississippi, North Carolina, and South Carolina. The species is described and illustrations are provided to show its difference from F. polypodioides Hedw.
20110923|Chiloscyphus anisolobus J. J. Engel & Glenny, a new member of the Lophocoleaceae, is described and illustrated from New Zealand. Chiloscyphus anisolobus J. J. Engel & Glenny shares the possession of a dorsal leaf free strip and strongly anisophyllous habit with the Australian C. excisifolius, but is distinct from that species in the accessory armature of its leaves, wherein the ventral margin often has a dentiform to lobuliform process in the distal sector, the leaves thus appearing trifid; the shorter leaf lobes terminating in a single cell or a uniseriate row of 2-3(-4) cells; and the shorter underleaf lobes terminating in a single cell or a uniseriate row of 2-3(-4) cells.
10.2307/3241591|The taxonomy and distribution of Isotheciopsis are summarized. The genus Neobarbella originally consisted of three species: N. comes (Griff.) Nog. from tropical Asia, N. pilifera (Broth. & Yas.) Nog. from Japan, and N. attenuata Nog. from Formosa. The first two species are transferred to Isotheciopsis and N. attenuata is reduced to a synonym of I. pilifera. Barbella amoena (Mitt.) Fleisch. from Ceylon is transferred to Isotheciopsis.
10.2307/3241428|Scapania perssonii Schust., sp. nov., is described from Greenland.
10.2307/3241338|Glossadelphus abortivapicus and Rhaphidostichum pustulatum are described as new species from the Hawaiian Islands. The latter represents the first record of the genus in Hawaii.
10.2307/3244078|One hundred-twelve species of lichens are reported for the first time from Arizona. The new combination Lecanora muralis var. brunneola (Mereschk.) Ryan & Nash is made, and the variety is reported as new to North America. The following 19 taxa are also reported for the first time from North America, north of Mexico: Absconditella lignicola, Caloplaca brouardii, Hypotrachyna dactylifera, Lecanora cavicola, L. plumosa, L. swartzii, Mycocalicium victoriae, Pertusaria moreliensis, Placidium pilosellum, Pyxine meissneriana, Rhizocarpon arctogenum, Umbilicaria subglabra, Verrucaria obductilis, V. trabicola, Xanthoparmelia australasica, X. consociata, X. isidiosa, X. neocongensis, and X. tegeta.
40732302|The monotypic genera Omphalodiella and Placoparmelia were described from Patagonia (Argentina). The latter is characterized by placodioid species, morphologically similar to some subcrustose, brown Xanthoparmelia species, whereas Omphalodiella is a peltate lichen. Analyses of ribosomal DNA sequences supported their placement in the parmelioid clade. Both genera are nested within Xanthoparmelia. Affinits to the latter genus are congruent with the presence of Xanthoparmelia-type lichenan in the hyphal cell walls and an arachiform vacuolar body in the ascospores, two key characters typical of Xanthoparmelia. Consequently we propose to place the generic names in synonymy with Xanthoparmelia and transfer the two species to the latter genus as X. patagnica and X. pettata comb. nov.
10.2307/3243987|Growth of the mycobiont of Evernia esorediosa under various osmotic culture conditions and its content of the dibenzofuran, hypostrepsilic acid, were examined. The growth rate and dibenzofuran content changed greatly when differing quantities of sucrose were added to the culture medium. Growth rate of the mycobiont was highest on the medium with 10% sucrose, while the content of hypostrepsilic acid was highest on medium containing 20% sucrose. The maximum growth of the mycobiont of Ramalina subbreviuscula was also on the medium with 10% sucrose.
40732264|In seed plants, the occurrence of spatial segregation of the sexes (SSS) along environmental gradients is well documented. SSS in bryophytes is usually more extreme than in seed plants, yet few bryophyte studies have explicitly linked SSS to environmental variables. For Marchantia inflexa, in which males are found beneath more tree-canopy openness than are females, we tested whether morphological, physiological and life history patterns are consistent with this sex-specific association to canopy openness. To accomplish this, we quantified morphology, physiology and life history differences between two light conditions for each sex.Responses to light levels were mostly analogous to sun and shade leaves of seed plants. However, we found that males had lower chlorophyll a:b ratios (indicative of low-light plants) than females, contrary to our prediction.
10.2307/3242476|Six species of lichens, collected on trees in a Minnesota bog, were maintained in the laboratory at Ricks College. Analysis of the distributional pattern of these lichens in nature suggested that four of the species require considerable variability in humidity in order to grow, whereas the other two are not very demanding in this respect. Furthermore, three of the six species, including the two that tolerate relatively uniform humidity, appear to be sensitive to variation in temperature, whereas the other three species are not. To test to what extent this type of information might be used in maintaining lichens in the laboratory, experimental treatments were set up which exposed some specimens to variation in humidity, others to variation in temperature, others to both and still others to neither. When exposed to the conditions that had been predicted to be best, some of the lichens increased in weight during the twelve weeks they were maintained in the laboratory. Most of the 189 specimens, however, lost weight, although the loss was least under the regimes where best growth had been predicted. Enough information has now been gained to make it possible to conduct long term experiments in the laboratory with intact lichens, maintaining them in at least a relatively healthy condition for several weeks or months as needed. Even though partial success has been achieved in growing lichens in the laboratory, much more research on the natural environmental conditions under which lichens thrive is necessary before rapid growth will be possible under controlled conditions
20110769|Since a number of studies have shown a strong positive correlation between apothecia production and lichen thallus size, it has been suggested that size can serve as an easy measure of lichen sexual fecundity. The reliability of the relationship between size and apothecia production among different environments has not been studied. We measured apothecia development and thallus area in populations of the lichenized fungi Xanthoparmelia cumberlandia and Xanthoparmelia coloradonsis. Our data suggest that while size is a significant predictor of apothecia production, the relationship between size and apothecia production is not consistent among various environments, nor does size adequately explain variation in apothecia production.
10.2307/3242912| Bryum cf. algens Card, was collected by SCUBA divers from 9-31 m in the benthos of perennially ice-covered Lake Vanda (7732S, 16135E), Wright Valley, southern Victoria Land, Antarctica. It occurred as a component of a microbial mat consisting primarily of Phormidium frigidum Fritsch, Lyngbya martensiana Menegh. and pennate diatoms. Contrastingly, B. cf. algens was not found in Lakes Bonney, Hoare, Chad and Fryxell located in adjacent Taylor Valley, nor was it found in any ice-free littoral regions of the lakes of Taylor and Wright Valleys investigated during the 1980-81 austral summer. Bryum algens is the most widespread bryophyte south of 56S in Antarctica. Its wide range of morphological forms has caused many problems in its taxonomy. Based upon examinations by one of us (R. I. L. S.), it is probable that B. korotkevicziae Sav.-Lyub. & Z. Smirn. and its variety hollebachii Sav.-Lyub. & Z. Smirn. and an unidentified aquatic Bryum sp. from Ablation Valley, Antarctica may be ecotypes of B. algens. The findings of B. cf. algens in Lake Vanda is the southernmost known occurrence of a moss from a perennially liquid deep water (>0.5 m) habitat. 
10.2307/3241991|A synopsis of the families and genera of mosses represented in continental and insular areas in Chile is presented. Forty-five families and 182 genera are cited.
10.2307/3242539|At a site where the morphologically similar but chemically different Parmelia loxodes and P. verruculifera grow together, a species of Lepraria is overwhelmingly associated as an epiphyte with the latter. The nonrandom distribution of the Lepraria may result from allelopathic effects and reflect the disparate medullary chemistries of the substrate species of parmelias.
25614899|A worldwide revision of Erythrodontium Hampe recognizes seven species. Descriptions, maps and illustrations are given for each species along with a key to the taxa.
10.2307/3243124|Molendoa sendtneriana, Philonotis capillaris, Orthotrichum alpestre and O. rupestre are reported new to Ontario. In addition, two species and two varieties are added to the moss flora of Thunder Bay District.
10.2307/3242720|The known distribution of the rare arctic-montane North American endemic moss Mielichhoferia macrocarpa (Hook. ex Drumm.) Bruch & Schimp. ex Jaeg. & Sauerb. is mapped, and its ecology is briefly discussed. A key is presented to the four species of Mielichhoferia occurring in North America north of Mexico.
20485757|Erioderma pedicallatum and fifteen other rare cyanolichens in Atlantic coastal forests in Nova Scotia are at risk from human activities. A heuristic expert habitat model was developed for use in a GIS to help identify polygons with habitat for these at-risk cyanolichens. Of 13,852 polygons identified by the model, 183 were surveyed for rare cyanolichens. One hundred and one of surveyed polygons had at least one species of rare cyanolichen. Habitat data were collected from twenty sites which had Erioderma pedicellatum. The habitat model can be used to identify important lichen areas for conservation and research.
10.2307/3241735| Thirty-four mosses are reported from Mexico and Costa Rica; 19 are new records from Mexico and 11 for Costa Rica. New to Mexico are: Amblystegium compactum (C. Mll.) Aust., Barbula linguaefolia Bartr., Campylopus subulatus Schimp., Didymodon godmanianus (C. Mll.) Bartr., D. juniperinus (C. Mll.) Broth., D. rigidulus Hedw., Holomitrium pulchellum Mitt., Lepidopilum haplociliatum (C. Mll.) Tar., Leskeella tectorum (Brid.) Hag., Leskeodon longipilus (Besch.) Bartr., Octoblepharum pulvinatum (Dozy & Molk.) Mitt., Philonotis elongata (Dism.) Crum & Steere, Pogonatum contortum (Brid.) Lesq., Pohlia annotina (Hedw.) Lindb. var. loeskei Crum, Steere & Anderson, Rhizogonium lindigii (Hampe) Mitt., Sematophyllum galipense (C. Mll.) Mitt., Thuidiopsis furfurosa (Hook. f. & Wils.) Fleisch., Timmia bavarica Hessl., and Trichosteleum fluviale (Mitt.) Jaeg. New to Costa Rica are: Barbula brunneola C. Mll., Bryoerythrophyllum recurvirostrum (Hedw.) Chen., Didymodon fusco-viridis Card., Ditrichum steyermarkii Bartr., Fissidens diplodus Mitt., F. veracruzensis Pur sell, F. weirii Mitt., F. weirii var. incertus Grout, Hygrohypnum pelichucense Williams, Pohlia peracuminata Bartr., and Rhynchostegium semiscabrum (Bartr.) Robins. Additional species of interest from Mexico are: Breutelia brittoniae Ren. & Card., Fissidens vardei Thr., Gyroweisia papillosa Thr., and Streptopogon erythrodontus (Tayl.) Wils. 
10.2307/3241669|Regeneration of the gametophyte of Megaceros flagellaris (Mitt.) Steph. can take place from both young uniplastid and older multiplastid epidermal cells. In the latter case the dedifferentation process involves a reduction of plastids from many to only one per cell. This entails 1) the cessation of the normal fission of plastids prior to karyokinesis and the subsequent "using up" of the existing chloroplasts and 2) plastid fusions.
10.2307/3243343|Levels of soluble carbohydrates, moisture, and pigments in the major bryophytes and lichens from the Windmill Islands, continental Antarctica, were monitored over a 14-month period. Gas-liquid chromatography revealed little seasonal change in soluble carbohydrate levels. Water content of vegetation varied throughout the season with maximum hydration occurring over the summer months. Pigment levels also varied seasonally with a decrease in total chlorophyll and chlorophyll a/b ratios during winter. Levels of total carotenoids increased over summer in response to high ambient irradiation. In contrast with the seasonally of soluble carbohydrates reported in some cryptogams from subpolar regions, the lack of any significant seasonal changes in the Antarctic bryophytes and lichens may be due to the extreme climate and rapid temperature fluctuations in the continental Antarctic environment.
23321064|A morphological family concept for Trichocoleaceae Nakai is fully elucidated, and three genera, Eotrichocolea R.M.Schust., Leiomitra Lindb.and Trichocolea Dumort., are recognized. In the genus Leiomitra three species, L. breviseta (Steph.) R.M.Schust., L. capillata Lindb., and a new combination L. merrillana (Steph.) T.Katag., are recognized for Southeast Asia including the New Guinea Islands. Two new synonyms are proposed for L. merrillana: Jungermannia tomentella var. subsimplex Nees, and Trichocolea obconica Steph.
3244747|The sensitive lichen Usnea longissima Ach. has a limited, patchy distribution across forested landscapes in the U.S. Pacific Northwest. To gain insight into whether the current distribution within the Oregon Coast Range has resulted from a lack of suitable habitat or from dispersal limitations, we measured growth of U. longissima transplants placed in four habitats. Transplant study site locations and habitats were determined through an accompanying study that identified significant U. longissima habitat characteristics, based on the present distribution of the species, and used predictive modeling to identify areas of apparently suitable habitat within the study area. Transplants were placed in 12 sites, comprised of three replicates of the four habitats. Ninety transplants were placed in each habitat (n = 360). Growth was measured as changes in biomass and length after one year. Transplants grew in all habitats, particularly in sites where habitat was predicted to be least suitable for U. longissima. Although transplants in those sites had mean biomass increases that were 2.7 to 4.6 times greater than those of transplants placed in the other three habitats, their overall rate of attrition was 1.5 to 1.8 times higher than transplants in the other three habitats. Increases in length were also greatest in sites where habitat was predicted to be least suitable. The fact that the transplants grew well in all habitats and actually thrived in sites where habitat was predicted to be least suitable indicates that dispersal limitations may play a more significant role than the availability of suitable habitat in determining the distribution of U. longissima in the Oregon Coast Range. These findings underscore the importance of green tree retention during timber harvests. Trees containing U. longissima should be retained so that they may inoculate the regenerating stand with U. longissima fragments. It is also recommended that stands harboring significant populations of U. longissima (typically old stands) be preserved as source locations of this dispersal-limited species.
10.2307/3243844|We examined intraspecific variation in flavonoid patterns in Plagiomnium ciliare and three other species of Mniaceae from eastern North America. There were no consistent differences in patterns from male gametophores, female gametophores, and vegetative stoloniferous shoots of P. ciliare. We did detect considerable geographical variation in populations of P. ciliare sampled along north-south transects in eastern and midwestern North America. Comparisons of flavonoid profiles from gametophytes versus sporophytes revealed a range of possibilities: 1) in P. cuspidatum patterns of the two generations were identical; 2) in Mnium hornum neither generation produced flavonoids; 3) in Rhizomnium punctatum subsp. chlorophyllosum six flavonoids were detected in sporophytes but none in gametophytes; and 4) of the seven compounds found in gametophytes of P. ciliare, five were also detected in sporophytes. Therefore, it behooves chemosystematists to make interspecific comparisons carefully, noting these many sources of intraspecific variation and always using plants of comparable ages and stages of development.
10.2307/3242856|Diphyscium chiapense sp. nov. from Chiapas, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is unique in the involutum group by its unistratose leaf margin, and it is unusual because of its highly mamillose median lamina cells. The bistratosity, rhizoid insertion, and axillary hairs of the Diphysciaceae are described as features reliably distinguishing these plants from the Pottiaceae.
41486746|The circumscription of the Fabroniaceae is revisited based on phylogenetic inferences from published rps4 (cpDNA) and nad5 (mtDNA) sequences. Only Ischyrodon forms a clade with Fabronia, a relationship defined by the wavy-walled exothecial cells as a possible synapomorphy. The genus Levierella is nested within the Entodontaceae, Dimerodontium among taxa traditionally associated with Leskeaceae and the position of Rhizofabronia is uncertain.
10.2307/3244201|This paper includes 19 saxicolous species of Caloplaca from North and Central America that are characterized by distinctive elongated marginal lobes, non-paraplectenchymatous hypothecium, and presence of anthraquinones. In various ways this group has been referred to as Caloplaca section Gasparrinia or even separated at the generic level. The group, however, is not regarded as natural and consequently not given taxonomic status. Descriptions, keys, and distribution maps are provided for all treated taxa. Three new species are described for the region: Caloplaca appressa, C. stellata, and C. texana. Several lectotypes are selected. Caloplaca augustina is a new synonym of C. galactophylla. Color illustrations are provided for most species or references to previously published color illustrations. Additional notes are presented for six related non-American species.
10.2307/3243244|Four hepatics and twenty-one mosses are reported from Jan Mayen for the first time. Doubtful or neglected records of one hepatic and ten mosses are confirmed by new finds and reexamination of herbarium material. New localities are given for 28 taxonomically interesting or little-collected species. Five hepatic and eight moss names are excluded from the flora of Jan Mayen. The known bryophyte flora of Jan Mayen consists of 41 liverwort species in 22 genera, and 133 moss species in 66 genera.
10.2307/3243986| Changes of frost resistance and the contents of sucrose, glucose, and fructose of shoots of Plagiomnium affine (Funck) Kop. and P. undulatum (Hedw.) Kop. were determined in the course of the year. Frost tolerance was defined as the minimum freezing temperature at which a 2 hr. exposure caused 50% irreversible inactivation of the net photosynthetic capacity relative to unfrozen plants. While tolerance limits in summer were around -10 to -15C, hardiness increased progressively during the fall and reached temperatures below -35C in winter. In both species, acquisition of frost resistance was not correlated with an increase of the sugar content of the shoots, although winter material exhibited a considerably higher sucrose content than less frost-hardy plants. Comparison of net photosynthetic capacity at supraoptimal temperatures revealed a significantly higher thermostability of the shoots of both species in winter relative to summer material. The results indicate that an accumulation of sucrose may contribute to frost hardiness of Plagiomnium shoots, but seasonal variations in frost tolerance cannot solely be attributed to alterations in the sugar concentration of the tissue. 
3244155|The diplolepideous-alternate peristome, when most highly developed, has endostome segments attached to a basal membrane and positioned alternate to the outer exostome teeth, with cilia often present between the segments. This peristome type defines the Bryidae (sensu Vitt et al. 1998), which includes four orders: the Bryales, Leucodontales, Hypnales, and Hookeriales, of which the latter three are mainly pleurocarpous in their growth form. Chloroplast (rbcL, rps4, and trnL-trnF) and nuclear (18S rRNA) gene sequences have been analyzed using the parsimony optimality criterion to elucidate relationships among the Bryidae. The analyses strongly support the paraphyly of the Bryidae, with the Splachnidae, and possibly the Orthotrichidae, having arisen from ancestors within the Bryidae. The Leucodontales, Hypnales, and Hookeriales form a monophyletic group, as do the pleurocarpous members of the Bryidae. However, the two pleurocarpous clades are not resolved as sister groups, although their non-monophyly is not supported by the bootstrap. The phylogenetic hypothesis provides a context in which to infer evolutionary transitions in some key morphological characters relating to the peristome and the transition from the acrocarpous to pleurocarpous growth forms.
3244939|Species related to Buellia aethalea have been examined from the Greater Sonoran Desert Region. In the region, B. aethalea s.str. is a rare montane species. A similar, subalpine species is B. eganii, first reported from New Mexico by R. S. Egan, now validly described here. Most common in the Buellia aethalea-group is B. spuria, a species which does, however, not occur in lowland desert areas of the Sonoran Region. Buellia stellulata is similar to B. spuria, but differs in thallus chemistry and is restricted to areas along the coast. Although similar in thallus morphology, B. lacteoidea is not closely related to the Buellia aethalea-group. The new name, B. maculata, is introduced for the illegitimate B. stigmaea. Buellia maculata is a species with a similar thallus, but not closely related to the Buellia aethalea-group and absent from the North American Southwest. Buellia lepidastra shows some affinities to the group, but like B. maculata is confined to eastern North America.
10.2307/3244433|The genus Dendrographa (Roccellaceae) is monographed. These fruticose lichenized ascomycetes are endemic to the Pacific coast of Baja California, Mexico and California, U.S.A. Two sexual species are recognized, both including anamorphic states here recognized as forms. These forms are dispersed by fragmentation. A new species. Dendrographa alectoroides and a new form, D. alectoroides f. parva are described. A new combination, Dendrographa leucophaea f. minor is made. Key, descriptions, distribution maps, and notes on chemistry and habitat are supplied.
10.2307/3244103|A quantitative analysis of contemporary moss assemblages is presented for forty-seven bryophytes occurring in 31 sites in the Tikhaia Bay region of northwestern Hooker (Gukera) Island, Franz Josef Land Archipelago. Fifteen (31%) of these species were found in only one site and 7 (15%) species were found in only two sites. Two-way indicator species analysis, TWIN SPAN, resulted in three major species groups. Canonical correspondence analysis, CCA, results showed species distribution patterns correlated with major environmental variables of moisture, slope, fertilized sites, and exposure. The three species groups are projected on the CCA ordination. Group 1 dominates steep, rocky, fertilized slopes with northern exposures while group 3 is at the other extreme of these variables. Group 2 is intermediate along these variables and spans the moist-dry habitat gradient.
41289811|Yunnanobryon rhyacophilum is a rheophytic moss recently described from China. To determine its phylogenetic position among the currently recognized Hypnalean mosses, mitochondrial (nad5) and chloroplast (rps4) nucleic acid sequences of 237 taxa were investigated. Maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of DNA sequence data suggest that Yunnanobryon is a monophyletic sister group to the genus Regmatodon (Regmatodontaceae). The findings of this study support the establishment of the new genus Yunnanobryon, the retention of Regmatodon at the genus level, and the treatment of these two genera as the family Regmatodontaceae.
10.2307/3243399| The content of the depside 4-O-demethylbarbatic acid in the mycobiont isolated from Ramalina siliquosa was examined under various controlled culture conditions. The content of the depside was similar regardless of the growth stage of the mycobiont colonies, whose weight increased linearly in a logarithmic scale for 11 months. Both the growth rate and the depside content of the mycobiont colonies were highest when the pH of the medium was 6.5. The growth rate of the mycobiont colonies increased with elevation of temperature until 25C. But the content of the depside changed greatly with differing temperature, and was highest at 15C. These results obtained from the isolated lichen mycobiont are compared with those from the whole lichen. 
10.2307/3242317| The family Nanobryaceae Schultze-Motel and the genus Nanobryum Dix. are synonyms of Fissidentaceae Schimp. and Fissidens Hedw., respectively. Fissidens gladiolus Mitt. ( Nanobryum gladiolum (Mitt.) Biz.) is illustrated. 
10.2307/3241472|Eight new species of Parmelia in section Cyclocheila (P. basutoensis, P. condyloides, P. epileuca, P. geesterani, P. prolata, P. schelpei, P. zambiensis, and P. zimbabwensis) are described from southern Africa. This section is now represented in Africa by 39 species. Divaricatic acid occurs in eight species, an unusually high proportion. The relatively high frequency on rocks (30%) suggests certain affinities with Parmelia subgenus Xanthoparmelia, another highly evolved group in southern Africa.
20485760|A new Orthotrichum species, O. norrisii, is described from California. The new taxon is recognized by a unique combination of sporophytic characters: capsule narrowly cylindrical and not contracted below mouth when dry, exothecial bands narrow and formed by 2(-3) cell rows, peristome with eight pairs of exostome teeth and eight endostome segments, stomata cryptopore and located in the lower part of the urn, lid plane and rostrate and vaginula hairy. Widely distributed throughout California, the new taxon has been overlooked and confused with O. tenellum.
20485814|Sporeling development in Cavicularia densa was determined using controlled culture and light microscopy techniques. Ontogeny is typified by endosporic germination followed by early protonematal development via the production of a terminal quadrant of four cells which ruptures the spore wall distally. Sporeling production is triggered by the delimitation of a cuneate apical cell in one of the quadrants. Regular apical cell segmentation produces derivatives and adult merophytes that ultimately result in a juvenile Cavicularia gametophyte. The fundamental sporeling pattern exhibited by Cavicularia is shared only with that of its sister genus Blasia. Moreover, the patterns of sporeling and gemma/gemmaling ontogeny in Cavicularia and Blasia share quadrant systems of precise uniformity, thus reinforcing the close relationship between the blasialean genera.
41289754|Lamellocolea was previously a monotypic genus endemic to New Zealand. Lamellocolea integrostia, a second species in the genus, is described and illustrated from New Zealand.
10.2307/3240839|Calliergon orbiculari-cordatum (Ren. & Card.) Broth. is reported for the first time from Spitsbergen. Its taxonomic position and geographic distribution are discussed, and its relationship to certain closely related taxa is summarized in a key.
10.2307/3242967|Schistidium obtusifolium is described and illustrated as a new species from Quebec, Canada. It is distinguished by julaceous stems, rounded-obtuse, muticous, concave leaves with entire, plane to narrowly reflexed, usually bistratose margins, subpercurrent to percurrent costae, and eperistomate capsules.
10.2307/3241812|Tayloria splachnoides (Schleich. ex Schwaegr.) Hook. has been found in the White Mountains, Apache Co., in east-central Arizona.
10.2307/3241782|Mnium spinosum is reported from collections in Colorado, British Columbia, and central and arctic Alaska. Its emerging pattern of geographical distribution in North America makes clear that it is a member of an arctic-alpine floristic element which seems to be restricted largely to the Rocky Mountains and their northwestern extension, the Brooks Range of arctic Alaska.
10.2307/3242773|Study of specimens of Papillaria from Papua New Guinea reveals that four species occur there, including P. crocea (Hampe) Jaeg. and P. leuconeura (C. Muell) Jaeg., both new to New Guinea.
10.2307/3241144|Buds have been induced on the protonema of Funaria hygrometrica raised from spores in the dark on media containing kinetin, with and without sucrose.
3244663|Parsimony analyses of 21 to 29 representatives of the family Bartramiaceae and of six outgroup taxa of Aulacomniaceae, Bryaceae, Plagiomniaceae, Meesiaceae, Rhizogoniaceae, and Timmiaceae were performed. Combined and separate analyses based on morphological data and three chloroplast loci (the genes rbcL and the rps4, and the trnL-trnF gene region) were carried out. Based on the combined analysis, the Bartramiaceae appear to be a monophyletic group including Anacolia, Bartramia, Breutelia, Conostomum, Fleischerobryum, Flowersia, Leiomela, Neosharpiella, Philonotis, and Plagiopus. The same result was also obtained from the analyses of rbcL and morphological data. Catoscopium is excluded from the family.
23321030|Fifty-one species of lichenicolous fungi are reported from Kamchatka, all but three being new to the area. Epinephroma gen. nov., Endococcus peltigericola sp. nov. (on Peltigera membranacea), Epinephroma kamchatica sp. nov. (on Nephroma parile) and Stigmidium buelliae sp. nov. (on Buellia disciformis) are described as new to science. Phoma lobariicola is new to Asia and Russia, Epicladonia stenospora, Plectocarpon peltigerae, Sphaerellothecium propinquellum and Tremella cetrariicola are new to Asia, Zwackhiomyces sphinctrinoides is new to Russia.
10.2307/3240611|Development of secondary gemmae from protonemata originating from the gemmae of Tortula pagorum is reported.
20110860|The secondary shoot elongation of Neckera pennata, a bryophyte vulnerable to forest management, was studied at three old-growth forest sites in Estonia for five years. Shoot elongation was significantly dependent on the Weather Index that was constructed on the basis of several weather parameters. For each shoot, the increments of adjacent years show significant autocorrelation. The mean shoot elongation during the study period was 2.8 mm per year. Although the species has been found mostly on Populus tremula in Estonia, it does not show a preference for this tree. The species' occurrence was significantly positively correlated with tree trunk circumference and bark pH. Seventeen percent of available tree trunks were occupied naturally on two ca. 1000 m plots during the study period. Shoot transplantation at two sites was successful for 36% of shoots after four years and can be considered as a possibility for restoring populations of Neckera pennata.
20110780|Plagiochila (sect. Arrectae) punctata, previously known from the Neotropics, Africa and Europe, has been collected on a sandstone cliff in a rockhouse type environment in Tennessee, new to North America. Maximum likelihood analyses based on nrITS1-5.8S-ITS2 sequences of several species of Plagiochila sect. Arrectae resolve the Tennessee specimen in a robust P. punctata subclade with accessions from Ecuador and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
10.2307/3240747|The seral distribution of mosses and the climatic and physical conditions of the floor stratum for four successional stages in Volo Bog in northern Illinois were determined. The bryophytic associations exhibit an increase in diversity and variability as the bog sere proceeds toward maturity. Additional moss records for mature Illinois and southern Wisconsin bogs are compared to the flora of Volo Bog. Successional delineations based on the mosses parallel those established from the higher vegetation.
41289762|Members of the liverwort family Fossombroniaceae are typically identified by the distinct ornamentation patterns on their spores. We have tested the hypothesis for Australian Fossombronia that using spore morphology is sufficient to identify species based on a monophyly criterion applied to a molecular phylogeny. We used the chloroplast markers rps4 and trnL-F and the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region to develop a phylogeny based on multiple accessions per putative morphospecies. Whilst the relationship between species had little support, the results did strongly support seven out of the eight species groupings based on spore morphology.
10.2307/3241529|Fissidens crumii, unique among the Hawaiian representatives of the genus in possessing bryoid areolation and a weak border, and F. bishopii, close to F. baldwinii Broth., are described and illustrated.
10.2307/3242281| Trichostomum cuspidatissimum Card. & Thr. (1902) is to be replaced by T. arcticum Kaalaas (1900). A distribution map of the species in Svalbard is presented. 
20110861|Some controversy has existed concerning the relative levels of bryophyte species diversity in tropical and temperate areas. In this study global diversity patterns of pleurocarpous moss species are investigated by means of Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling ordination based on checklists from 78 countries or other geographical areas spread over all the inhabitable parts of the world. By far, most of the diversity occurs outside the Holarctic area (excluding most of temperate eastern Asia), and especially the tropics have a very diverse pleurocarpous moss flora. Although earlier studies have shown that bryophyte alpha diversity is similar or almost similar in tropical and temperate areas, species turnover among pleurocarps is higher among areas within regions and especially among continents in the tropical rather than in the temperate zone. These results underline the priority of tropical areas for both research and globally sound conservation measures.
3244911| Three lichen species forming both a foliose chlorotype and a dendriscocauloid cyanotype are documented from western North America. Lobaria amplissima is reported from northern California and southeastern Alaska and is new to North America. Sticta oroborealis Goward & Tnsberg, sp. nov. is described from a small area in north coastal British Columbia. The cyanotype of Sticta wrightii, hitherto unknown, is reported from coastal southeastern Alaska. The cyanotypes of all these species occur primarily as epiphytes in old-growth forests supporting a high cyanolichen diversity. The occurrence of "Dendriscocaulon" intricatulum (Nyl.) Henssen in Pacific North America is questioned. 
10.2307/3242002|Four new species or varieties are described. The following new taxa are also illustrated: Cololejeunea diplasiolejeunoides, C. disciflora, C. falcata var. madecassa and C. sambiroana.
10.2307/3241309|A new bark sampler for use in air pollution-epiphytic cryptogam studies consists of a cylinder with a circular saw blade welded into one end and two handles welded onto the opposite end. It has been used successfully to remove bark samples from various conifer and hardwood species. The sampler can be constructed of different sizes; its advantages over a sampler which must be hammered into the tree bark are: 1) the saw blade sampler does not fracture brittle outer hark plates, and 2) much larger bark samples can be obtained which contain more representative samples of the epiphytic community.
10.2307/3242034|A total of 53 species in 35 genera and 17 families are presently known from the eastern half of South Dakota. Twenty of these species are newly reported for the state.
10.2307/3241242|Buxbaumia aphylla is reported from 76 sites in Newfoundland. It grows in Kalmia heaths, in great abundance at some sites.
10.2307/3241888|The known Montana flora of leafy Hepaticae consists of 110 species, 2 subspecies and 3 varieties in 28 genera and 15 families. Ten taxa (8 species, a subspecies and a variety) are reported as new to Montana. This catalog of taxa is based upon the study of 11,000 collections. The species belong to several floristic elements: arctic-boreal (50.4% of the reported taxa), Pan North American (27%), boreal (13.9%), eastern boreal (0.9%), western boreal (0.9%), North Pacific (1.7%) and North American endemic (5.2%).
20110917|Dermatocarpon, a saxicolous lichen, is common throughout the Ozarks Highlands of North America where exposed rock is abundant. Dermatocarpon is an understudied genus. Species delimitation is difficult because of a paucity of morphological characters and a large degree of variation within this genus. The taxonomy of Dermatocarpon in North America was recently thrown into flux because of a molecular study which limited the use of a once widely applied name, D. miniatum. The Melzer's reagent test, currently used for identifying members of the miniatum-complex in North America, is not useful for identifying Ozark specimens. A revision of Dermatocarpon for the Ozark Highlands of North America is presented based on morphological, molecular and ecological studies. The results of these studies indicate that eight taxa are present in the Ozarks. Four taxa are described new to science: D. arenosaxi, D. dolomiticum, D. luridum var. xerophilum and D. multifolium.
10.2307/3243521|Bryolawtonia (Thamnobryaceae) is described as a new moss genus, comprising only B. vancouveriensis. A lectotype is selected for its basionym, Thuidium vancouveriense. Bryolawtonia is segregated from Bestia (Brachytheciaceae) and placed in the Thamnobryaceae mainly due to its frondose growth habit and hypnobryalean peristome. The monotypic Bestia is closely related to the genus Isothecium of the Brachytheciaceae.
10.2307/3242173|Cyclodictyon richardsii Bowers & Magill, sp. nov. is described as a new species from Mexico. It differs from other species by its small size and tufts of propagula arising from the costae on the abaxial side of the leaves.
20061085|Pohlia robertsonii is newly described from central California. Plants with polysetous sporophytes immediately separate this species from all other members of the genus Pohlia in North America. Pohlia robertsonii is further characterized by firm, but not thickened leaf cells, paroicous inflorescences, long, narrowly cylindric capsules, and irregular peristomes in which the endostome segments equal or exceed the exostome teeth, and lack cilia. The peristomial formula is 4:2:2-4. Pohlia rabunbaldensis is described from the southern Appalachian Mountains of Georgia and North Carolina. The slender gametophytes bear single bud-like gemmae in upper leaf axils. The dull leaves that are somewhat shriveled on drying resemble those of P. annotina, but the large single gemmae with flexuose, broadly laminate leaf primordia resemble those of P. drummondii. The conspicuously decurrent leaves distinguish P. rabunbaldensis from both previously known species.
10.2307/3244465|The pycnidial characters in eight species of the Thelotremataceae were studied by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy in order to develop a better understanding of the genus within the family. Three types of conidia can be recognized in the Thelotremataceae: oblong, fusiform, and bacilliform. The species groups recognizable by conidial characters prove to have appropriate apothecial types, according to the concept of M. E. Hale, Jr. Myriotrema andamanicum is transferred to the genus Ocellularia based on apothecial and pycnidial characters and Myriotrema mastarion is a new synonym of Ocellularia andamanica.
20110919|Here we present a preliminary checklist of the lichens of Gorges State Park, North Carolina, and describe Gyalectidium appendiculatum, a foliicolous lichen species new to science. Gorges State Park and the surrounding region encompasses a series of north- to south-facing drainages characterized by steep slopes and abrupt elevational changes, high levels of rainfall, and year-round moderate temperatures. The gorges harbor several rare and endemic taxa. This survey represents the first attempt to describe the lichen diversity of this region. We collected 441 specimens that yielded a total of 218 species. Using Jaccard indices, we calculated species composition similarities between Gorges State Park and three additional sites in North Carolina (two other mountain checklists and one coastal plain). Comparisons among the three mountain sites resulted in the highest similarity indices. However, Gorges State Park had more affinities to the coastal plain flora than did either of the other two mountain sites. These data contribute new information about eastern North American lichens as well as add to the growing documentation of the extraordinary and unique biological composition of the western North Carolina gorges. Future research on the lichen flora of Gorges State Park will undoubtedly lead to new discoveries.
10.2307/3242089|Encalypta ciliata Hedw. var. ciliata and Hygrohypnum molle (Hedw.) Loeske are reported new to Pennsylvania. Fissidens osmundoides Hedw. is reported for the first time from the western region of the state. Distributional data are presented for 15 other species.
20110947|Plectocarpon hypogymniae sp. nov. is described from Hypogymnia bitteri in Siberia. It is distinguished from all known Plectocarpon species with the pigment Atrabrown by the particularly narrow ascospores, and from all species by the host.
10.2307/3243963|Extracts of thalli of Cetraria alvarensis (Wahlenb.) Vain., C. tilesii Ach., C. juniperina (L.) Ach., C. nivalis (L.) Ach. and C. pinastri (Scop.) S. F. Gray, from several localities in Scandinavia and North America, were subjected to isoelectric focusing and stained for general proteins and for activity of alkaline phosphatase and acid phosphatase. Results of principal component analysis, hierarchical clustering, and cladistic methods show affinities between specimens from the same continent but rather large differences within populations. The differences between American and Scandinavian specimens of C. pinastri suggest a polyphyletic origin of this species.
10.2307/3244367|Plagiochila fraseri Steph., P. liebmanniana Lehm. & Lindenb., P. peradenyensis Schiffn., P. ptychanthoidea Steph. and the still invalid "P. woronoffii" Steph. are added to the section. Plagiochila liebmanniana is redescribed and illustrated. Eight species names are newly placed in synonymy: P. cornuta Steph. (= P. nepalensis Lindenb.), P. gollanii Steph. (= P. nepalensis Lindenb.), P. decolyana Steph. (= P. nepalensis Lindenb.), P. humicola Steph. (= P. beddomei Steph.), P. luethiana Steph. (= P. nepalensis Lindenb.), P. monalata Inoue (= P. khasiana Mitt.), P. pseudorientalis Inoue (= P. nepalensis Lindenb.), and P. remotistipula Steph. (= P. nepalensis Lindenb.). Plagiochila propinqua Sande Lac. is excluded from the section. A key to the species of sect. Contiguae Carl in East and South Asia is provided.
10.2307/3242312|Bryoxiphium norvegicum (Brid.) Mitt. is reported for the first time from Iowa.
10.2307/3241749|Measurements of granules from within the podetial cups of different chemical variants of the Cladonia chlorophaea complex in North Carolina show clear correlation between granule size and certain chemical characters. The results support the view that the replacement of cryptochlorophaeic acid by grayanic acid in this group is taxonomically more significant than the presence or absence of fumarprotocetraric acid. In the species tested, the soredia of C. conista are the smallest, those of C. perlomera and C. grayi are intermediate, and those of C. cryptochlorophaea are the largest.
10.2307/3243710|The genus Lindigia is represented in the neotropics by the single species Lindigia debilis. All other neotropic species previously ascribed to the genus are synonymous with either L. debilis or Rhynchostegiella capillacea (Hornsch.) Visnadi & Allen comb. nov. The genus is retained in Meteoriaceae and positioned between Barbella and Floribundaria.
10.2307/3242455| Leucobryum incurvifolium C. Mll., previously known only from Central America, is recorded for the first time in the United States. A map of the known distribution of the species is given and distinguishing characters are noted. 
3244286| Spilonemella Henssen & Tnsberg is described as a new genus and placed in the Coccocarpiaceae. The new taxa, S. americana Henssen & Tnsberg and S. japonica Henssen, are described. The species of Spilonemella have a minutely fruticose thallus on a more or less well-developed blue-green prothallus. The photobionts are scytonemoid. The thallus is composed of ascending to erect branched lobes with opuntioid budding. The buds easily break off and function as diaspores. Lobes develop either from diaspores or by lichenization of filaments of the cyanobionts on the prothallus. In apothecial development and structure, the new genus corresponds to those of the related Spilonema, but differs by the presence of a cupular exciple. 
10.2307/3242450|The distribution of Triquetrella californica (Lesq.) Grout is extended to include a range from southern Oregon to southern California, the latter being a noteworthy disjunctive occurrence.
3244153|Evolutionary relationships of mosses are still poorly understood, with family, order, and subclass circumscription and relationships remaining especially obscure. Over the past decade, a considerable body of data has accumulated, including information on morphological, developmental, anatomical, and ultrastructural characteristics, as well as nucleotide sequences for a number of nuclear and plastid genes. We have combined data from these different sources to provide on overview of the relationships of the major lineages of mosses. We analyzed a data set that includes 33 moss species and ten outgroup taxa drawn from the liverworts, hornworts, and vascular plants. Molecular data consisted of nucleotide sequences from four DNA regions, (rbcL, trnL-trnF, rps4 and 18S). Morphological data included 41 characters of which many were derived from published anatomical and ultra-structural studies. Combining morphological and molecular data in the analyses showed that mosses, including Sphagnum, Takakia, Andreaea and Andreaeobryum, form a monophyletic group, provided improved resolution of higher level relationships, and further insight into evolutionary patterns in morphology.
10.2307/3243101|Prolonged condensation of constitutive heterochromatin coincides with regions of Giemsa C-banding in thallus apices of Pellia but is not a feature of the first mitotic telophase in germinating spores of P. epiphylla (L.) Corda. It is in sharp contrast to interphase and prophase in mature gametophytes of Mylia and Plagiochila, where segments of advanced chromatin condensation greatly exceed the limited array of C-bands. The differential behaviour of constitutive heterochromatin in Pellia provides an unequalled opportunity to assess genetic and developmental factors at and around the transition between diploid and haploid phases. In the two other genera, but particularly in M. anomala (Hook.) S. Gray and M. taylorii (Hook.) S. Gray, an interpretation of cytological phenomena will require molecular and behavioural analysis.
20485785|Bryum cyclophyllum is reported from two new localities in the Iberian Peninsula and added to the Portuguese bryophyte flora. The habitat and worldwide distribution of this species are discussed: it shows a mainly Arctic-boreal distribution, widespread but not frequent; it is considered a rare or threatened moss in several European regions and with relict occurrences in more southern areas of North America. The ecology and distribution probably reflect migratory events during the last glacial period of the Pleistocene.
10.2307/3244084|Calymperes palisotii Schwaegr. subsp. palisotii is reported for the first time from Dominican amber, with an age of 25-45 million years. This is the third record of the moss family Calymperaceae from Dominican amber. A total of 12 species of mosses is now known from Dominican amber, six identified at the species level and six at the genus level. All species and genera of mosses reported from Dominican amber are widespread in the Neotropics and still occur on the island of Hispaniola.
10.2307/3244529|The lichen Chaenotheca olivaceorufa Vainio collected in California, Oregon, and Washington is here reported new for North America. The ecology of the species is discussed briefly and a map showing its known world distribution is provided.
10.2307/3241147|Two species referred by Stephani to Lophozia Dum. are found to belong to Gymnocolea Dum. and the new combinations G. multiflora (Steph.) Schust. and G. cylindriformis (Mitt.) Schust. are proposed. The former is the type of a new subgenus, Gymnocoleopsis, which differs from subgen. Glymnocolea in lacking terminal branches, the 2-3-stratose perianths, the reduced seta, and other features.
41289764|Cloud forests are one of the most diverse and yet one of the most endangered ecosystems in the tropics. Epiphytic bryophytes are extremely diverse and abundant in this ecosystem where the palms are a dominant element. Slash and burn agriculture techniques usually do not cut the palms and they remain as isolated individuals in the middle of artificial grasslands or agricultural fields. Forest clearing creates new environments on the isolated trees that have been considered a refugee for "rare" canopy species, and the relationship of these "isolated" communities with forest communities has been considered to be distant. We sampled 99 plots on 11 individuals of the palm Dictyocaryum lamarckianum for a total effective sampling area of 15.9 m. The epiphytic communities comprised 72 liverworts and 21 mosses. Diplasiolejeunea alata and D. cavifolia are hereby reported for the first time from Colombia. We analyzed the changes in bryophyte diversity patterns between forests and man-made grasslands and how these patterns are related to the distribution of locally rare species. Our results showed a decrease in the number of species from the bottom to the top of the palm and from the forest to the grassland. Rare species were mostly concentrated in the forest independently of height. Common species moved on average 4 m downward on the palms in the grassland relative to the height on the forest. Ordination of the plots using NMDS provided evidence that the change in species composition is gradual between forests and grasslands and from the base of the palms to the canopy. We propose that the new communities generated by slash and burning practices are a combination of drought tolerant species from the forest and species that are commonly found in disturbed sites. In conclusion, isolated palms are not islands where canopy species can be preserved as they harbor only common species.
10.2307/3242392|A taxonomic treatment is presented and two new species and a variety of Scapania are described from western North America. A key to the western North American species of the genus Scapania is included. A discussion of the distinguishing characteristics follows the description of each taxon and a distributional list is provided from the specimens examined and from published reports. A total of 20 species, 3 subspecies and 9 varieties are treated in this work. Among these Scapania fulfordiae, S. hollandiae and S. subalpina var. muddiae are newly described and S. ornithopodioides is new to North America.
10.2307/3241104|Nineteen species and one form of lichens are reported as new records for Alberta. One species, Lecidea intrudens Magn., is reported for the first time from North America.
20110882|A new moss species, Grimmia milleri Hastings & Greven, is described from the mountainous parts of northeastern North America from the Adirondacks, New York to Maine. It has a unique combination of characters that in part otherwise defines two unrelated species of Grimmia, G. donniana and G. incurva. It is autoicous, with straight setae and smooth capsules like G. donniana, but the leaves are contorted and linear-lanceolate like G. incurva. Grimmia milleri is compared with G. afroincurva. The latter species is taken out of synonymy with G. incurva and G. fuscolutea and recognized here as a valid species.
10.2307/3243566|The type of Lecanora argentea is shown to be identical with L. fuliginosa. Consequently, the latter name is reduced to synonymy with L. argentea. The relationships of that species with other saxicolous species of the Lecanora subfusca group containing the gangaleoidin chemosyndrome are discussed briefly. L. vincentina is reduced to synonymy with L. sulphurescens.
3244727| The new combination, Josefpoeltia parva (Rs.) Frdn & L. Lindblom with the basionym Xanthoria parva Rs., is made. The type species of Josefpoeltia, J. boliviensis, is reduced to synonymy with J. parva. The length of the conidia varies in J. parva showing a north-south gradient. 
3244140|The concentrations of seven elements (N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, and Na), five of which are macroelements, were measured in 3-cm apices of 17 populations of the euryecious aquatic moss Rhynchostegium riparioides (Hedw.) Card. located along the course of the Iregua River (La Rioja, northern Spain). A principal components analysis (PCA) revealed two key factors ordinating the sampling sites on the basis of their physicochemical data 1) substrate lithology, since the river's upper course is predominantly siliceous whereas the middle and lower courses are influenced by CaCO
25614902|Based on extensive new collections, a key to and a list of 11 species of the lichen genus Umbilicaria in Bolivia are provided, and their diversity, altitudinal distribution, biogeographical affinity and reproductive strategies are discussed. Umbilicaria africana, U. aprina, U. cinereorufescens, U. decussata, U. dendrophora, U. leprosa and U. vellea are reported from Bolivia for the first time. The Umbilicaria species of Bolivia belong to several biogeographical elements: an "international" high altitude group of species (4000-5500 m) found in most alpine or Arctic areas of the world (U. aprina, U. cinereorufescens, U. decussata, U. dendrophora, U. nylanderiana, U. vellea), and a central Andean endemic element (U. calvescens, U. leprosa, U. haplocarpa) which completely dominates at lower altitudes (2500-4000 m). In addition the mainly Southern Hemispheric U. africana is abundant in the high alpine areas. A two-phase scenario is suggested where the ancestor of the endemic element colonized and evolved in the Andes while the mountain chain was still fairly low, while the international element is a comparatively recent addition.
10.2307/3242216|Seventeen mosses and four hepatics are reported for the first time from the Yukon Territory, 22 mosses and one hepatic from Alberta and two mosses from the Northwest Territories. Sporophytes were found for the second time on Cyrtomnium hymenophyllum (B.S.G.) Holm. The North American distributions of Oedipodium griffithianum (Dicks.) Schwaegr. and Marsupella revoluta (Nees) Dum. are mapped. Significant range extensions are included for Seligeria oelandica C.Jens. & Medel., S. calcarea (Hedw.) B.S.G. and Isopterygium elegans (Brid.) Lindb.
3244864|Pohlia bolanderi (Lesq.) Broth, is reported for the first time for Europe from the south of Spain (Sierra Nevada range). A description from European material is provided and differences from closely related species, with which it has been confused, are discussed. It is also known from alpine regions in western North America, including British Columbia, Washington, Oregon, California, and Nevada.
10.2307/3242191|Three species of the Funariaceae (Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) B.S.G., Physcomitrium pyriforme (Hedw.) Hampe and Funaria hygrometrica Hedw.) have been cultured under sterile conditions on Knop's inorganic medium (liquid and agar) to determine the conditions and minimum time necessary for completion of the sexual life cycle (spore to spore). According to the data presented, the life cycle of F. hygrometrica may be completed in 4 months, P. pyriforme in 3 months and P. patens in 2 months. In all three species the critical factor for the induction and maturation of gametangia is cold temperature. Delineation of the life cycle makes these organisms suitable for genetic study.
10.2307/3243215|Pleuridium aurantiacum, a new species from central Mexico, is characterized by deeply concave, oblong, rounded-acute leaves with percurrent costae; thick-walled exothecial cells with reddish-orange pigmentation; and minute cucullate calyptrae with obscurely roughened cells near the apices.
10.2307/3242055|Lecanora christoi and L. mellea (both in Sect. Petrasterion) are described as new from Colorado and California, respectively. A key to North American species of the section is presented.
10.2307/3243589|Descriptions and illustrations are offered for five new species together with refined descriptions of six South American Sphagna recently studied from authentic specimens. Two nomenclatural changes are also made (for S. steerei Crum, non Andrus, and S. aequiporosum Crum, non Warnst).
10.2307/3242398|Six species of Relicina are now known from India and Sri Lanka: R. abstrusa, R. amphithrix, R. relicinula, R. subconnivens, R. sublanea and R. sydneyensis. These extend the range of the genus into the Indian subcontinent where it had not previously been known.
10.2307/3241647|Contrary to American authors, Leucodon sciuroides (Hedw.) Schwaegr. does not occur in North America. A new name, L. brachypus var. andrewsianus, is proposed for North American material formerly referred to L. sciuroides.
10.2307/3244357|Asterella grollei is described as a new species from Nepal and Qinghai Province of China. It is allied to the holarctic A. saccata (Wahlenb.) A. Evans, the South African A. muscicola (Steph.) S. W. Arnell and especially to A. palmeri (Austin) Underw. from California and Mexico. The differences between these species are enumerated. These four species display several specialized characters of particular interest in Asterella, especially sexuallcondition, branching pattern, and spore ornamentation. The terms par-autoicous, terminal-autoicous, and ventral-autoicous are defined.
10.2307/3241877|Two liverworts and three mosses are reported as new state records for Arkansas or Missouri.
10.2307/3243116|Samples of Hypogymnia enteromorpha (Ach.) Nyl. and Parmelia sulcata Tayl. were fumigated with peroxyacetyl nitrate (PAN) for 28 hours in seven days at 100 ppb and 32 hours in eight days at 50 ppb. Photosynthesis rates decreased in both species, with more decrease in P. sulcata than in H. enteromorpha. Analysis of transmission electronmicrographs revealed abnormally high accumulation of starch in the chloroplasts of both lichen species and slight decreases in amount of pyrenoid area. Anticipated significant deterioration and disappearance of thylakoid membranes did not occur.
10.2307/3241383|The new species Cladonia perlomera, known from eight localities in eastern North Carolina, produces merochlorophaeic acid and perlatolic acid in addition to a new meta-depside, 4-O-methylcryptochlorophaeic acid. The isolation and proof of structure of the new compound is described. Re-examination of C. merochlorophaea shows that it also produces 4-O-methylcryptochlorophaeic acid, in addition to merochlorophaeic acid, which was originally found in this species. Four specimens of a variant previously thought to represent a rare strain of C. merochlorophaea characterized by containing "novochlorophaeic acid" with or without merochlorophaeic acid actually contain a mixture of sekikaic and homosekikaic acids and no merochlorophaic acid. Extraction of an as yet unnamed chemical variant of the C. chlorophaea group yielded homosekikaic acid. Imbricaric acid was found in two specimens of the C. chlorophaea group tested. Sekikaic acid and imbricaric acid were not previously known in the genus Cladonia, and homosekikaic acid and perlatolic acid are new to the C. chlorophaea group.
10.2307/3243442|A new lichenicolous fungus, Opegrapha sphaerophoricola Isbrand & Alstrup, is described from Sphaerophorus globosus in North America.
20485816|The new lichenicolous fungus, Gelatinopsis acarosporicola, is described from southern California in western North America, where it grows on Acarospora socialis. It differs from the three other lichenicolous species, G. ericetorum, G. leptogii and G. roccellae in having subglobose to broadly ellipsoid ascospores and host selection.
3244861|This paper reports on a study of the isidiate corticolous species of Caloplaca in North and Central America with notes on similar species from other parts of the world. Of the 20 described isidiate species studied, five are found within the study area. The most common species are C. epiphora and C. furfuracea. Apothecia are frequently found on these isidiate species, in contrast to the sorediate species. A key to all species studied, color photographs, and distribution maps are provided. Several new synonyms are proposed. Caloplaca griseovirens and C. isidiosissima are younger synonyms of Caloplaca aphanotripta. Caloplaca hensseneana and C. neotropica are synonyms of C. wrightii. Caloplaca bassiae and C. herbidella have been reported from the study area, but do not occur here. Caloplaca bassiae is known from Africa, India, China, and Australia and is the oldest name for C. isidiosella and C. malaensis.
10.2307/3243810| Grimmia mesopotamica Schiffn. is reported for the first time in Europe from Almera (Spain). The species is illustrated and notes are given on its distribution and ecology. 
10.2307/3242825|Caloplaca tominii Savicz occurs in Southwestern Yukon (Canada, Region of Kluane), beyond its previously known range (Central Asia, southern Norway, Greenland). The species is epigaeous, strongly basiphytic, xero- and heliophytic. It grows in communities belonging to the Toninion coeruleonigricantis. Its occurrence in the Yukon is allowed by a strongly continental local climate in connection with periglacial phenomena.
10.2307/3241874|Polytrichum ericoides Hampe, long thought to be a Polytrichadelphus, is a Polytrichum allied to P. commune. Hampe's name for this Colombian moss is evidently legitimate.
10.2307/3242314|Under experimental conditions, isolated leaves of Dawsonia polytrichoides R. Br., D. longiseta Hampe and D. superba Grev. developed secondary protonemata. After five months on nutrient agar, small gametophores formed on protonemata developed from two D. polytrichoides leaves.
10.2307/3243128|Orthotrichum stramineum Hornsch. ex Brid. is reported from North America for the first time. It has been found at St. John's, Newfoundland, in situations that suggest accidental introduction by man.
3244277|In young forests of humid south-central British Columbia, Lobaria pulmonaria and other epiphytic "cyanolichens" attain optimum development over the lower branches of conifers growing within the dripzone of Populus. To account for this, we propose the existence of a "dripzone effect", in which nutrient-rich leachates from the upper branches of Populus enhance the pH of nearby conifers to the benefit of cyanolichen colonization. The dripzone effect is presumably most pronounced in stands located over nutrient-rich soils, in which Populus plays a pivotal role in the early establishment of nitrogen-fixing epiphytic cyanolichens. This phenomenon is assumed to be widespread, but it apparently leads to colonization of conifers by cyanolichens only in humid regions not subject to acid rain. Though the presence of cyanolichens on trees belonging to the Pinaceae is probably indicative of allochthonous nutrient enrichment wherever it occurs, we stress that the dripzone effect is only one of many mechanisms promoting the enrichment of conifer bark.
10.2307/3242522|Grimmia pulvinata (Hedw.) Sm. is recorded for the first time from Michigan. It is also found in a few other parts of eastern North America, in Indiana, Iowa, Missouri and Ontario. Grimmia indianensis (Sayre) Crum is considered to be a shade form showing a poor development of hyaline awns.
10.2307/3242758| Orthotrichum pallens Brid. was found in Mrida, Venezuela, as member of the epiphytic flora of the paramo. This is the first record from South America and suggests recent dispersal to the Southern Hemisphere through Mexico from a wide-spread Northern Hemisphere range. 
10.2307/3244301|This paper includes 15 saxicolous species of Caloplaca in North and Central America with abundant gray or white thallus lacking anthraquinones and apothecia with anthraquinones. The non-crystallizing substances thalloidima green and lecidea green were found in many species and details of these substances are given for the species in the brown-black group and the species in this paper. Keys, descriptions, and maps of distributions are provided. Comments on related non-American species are included. The new species Caloplaca sonorae is described from Mexico and southwestern United States. Several lectotypes are designated and new synonyms are stated.
20061101|The new species, Gyalectidium floridense Safranek & Lcking, found on leaves of Citrus in Florida, is described and illustrated. Gyalectidium floridense belongs in the G. areolatum group (Gyalectidium sect. Areolectidium ser. Areolate), which is chiefly characterized by a crystalline thallus where the calcium oxalate crystals aggregate to form large areoles on the thallus patches. Within this group, the new species is distinguished by rather narrow, folded, and hornshaped hyphophores produced on the thallus surface.
20110918|The state of Quertaro, Mexico is at the confluence of three physiographic provinces: Transmexican Volcanic Belt, Mexican Plateau and Sierra Madre Oriental. A list of its mosses has been compiled from field work and specimens at MEXU. A total of 212 species were recorded for the state, including Schistidium agassizii new for the country. The Sierra Madre Oriental province is the richest in terms of number of species, with about 82% of the total moss diversity. A parsimony analysis of endemism (PAE) roughly identified three distinct regions in the state: the conifer-cloud-temperate forests in the northeast (Sierra Madre Oriental), the more xeric parts in the center and southeast (Mexican Plateau and ecotone areas of the Transmexican Volcanic Belt), and the almost temperate areas in the south (Transmexican Volcanic Belt). Moss diversity and distribution in the state is associated with the environmental diversity and the complex geological history of the region, but human activities may have modified the distributional patterns.
40732263|Physconia grumosa, a species previously known from Asia, is reported from Alaska, the Rocky Mountains (Colorado, New Mexico), New England (Maine) and the Great Lakes region (Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Ontario). This species is similar to P. detersa, differing primarily by the type of propagules formed along the lobe margins: granular to weakly coralloid isidia and few to many dorsiventral lobules instead of true soredia. A description of the species is provided and comparisons with similar species are given.
10.2307/3243373|Chromosome numbers are recorded for the first time for three moss species from Macquarie Island. They are the first reports worldwide for Notoligotrichum australe (Hook. f. & Wils.) G. Smith n = 7, and Muelleriella crassifolia (Hook. f. & Wils.) Dus. subsp. crassifolia n = ca 36, while the chromosome number n = 26 for Pottia heimii (Hedw.) Hampe confirms previous reports for this species.
10.2307/3244075|A phylogenetic analysis of the euascomycetous order Arthoniales, focussing on the family Roccellaceae was performed. The first half of the small subunit of ribosomal DNA (SSU rDNA) was sequenced from 12 taxa and these sequences were analyzed cladistically together with seven sequences from GenBank. In the strict consensus of the 27 most parsimonious trees Lecanactis abietina was placed as a sister taxon to the remaining group. Schismatomma and Syncesia were found nested within the family Roccellaceae. SSU rDNA was not informative enough to fully resolve relationships between the closely related genera Dirina and Roccella. The molecular phylogeny was compared with an earlier morphological study of Arthoniales. An incongruence test showed significant incongruence between the molecular and morphological data sets. Four major points of conflicts are discussed 1) the monophyly of Roccellaceae, the placements of 2) Schismatomma, 3) Lecanactis, and 4) Dendrographa, Finally, a combined analysis using both morphological and molecular data was performed. Most groups in the molecular tree were also present in the combined tree due to a lower level of homoplasy in the molecular data. At this point, we recommend combining data sets, as all available information of the studied taxa is utilized.
10.2307/3244304| Syrrhopodon mammillosus C. Mller is reported new to Borneo. The endemic Syrrhopodon meijeri Reese is reported from a second locality in Borneo, and its gemmae are described for the first time. 
3244571|Lobaria oregana is an epiphytic macrolichen associated with old-growth Douglas-fir forests in the Pacific Northwest. Nitrogen fixation by this often-abundant cyanolichen provides an ecologically significant input of new N to the forest ecosystem. This study estimates annual N
20485819|This paper describes five new species of Caloplaca from Mexico and the central United States. Caloplaca fissurata, C. pacifica and C. michoacanensis are described from Mexico, and C. lignicola and C. pratensis are described from the central United States. Notes are given for C. soralifera, a new record for North America, and a new distribution map is presented for C. ulcerosa. Maps and color photographs are provided for the species treated.
20110837|According to new rps4 and trnL-trnF sequences, Goniomitrium should be removed from the Pottiaceae and placed again in the Funariaceae. Goniomitrium and Pyramidula form a sister clade to the rest of the Funariaceae, and are accommodated in their own subfamily, the Pyramiduloideae subfam. nov. Clavitheca nom. nov. is proposed to replace the illegitimate Corynotheca Ochyra. The exclusion of the Ephemeraceae from the Funariales is here corroborated.
10.2307/3242868|This study was undertaken because of reports of decreased visibility due to haze and the possibility of increased air pollution in the park. Numerous localities where lichens had been collected 10 years ago were revisited in 1980 to look for any changes in the lichen flora. Photographs were taken from scenic vistas where photographs had been taken earlier. Permanent photographic points for lichens were established for long term monitoring. It is argued that fruticose lichens are just as useful for monitoring air quality in arid areas as in wetter areas. There has been no loss of lichen species at any locality over the past 10 years and haze conditions have not changed much. It is concluded that no significant increase in air pollution has occurred within the park over the past 10 years.
20110821|Ten lichen species: Buellia miriquidica, Catillaria contristans, Fuscidea gothoburgensis, Hymenelia cyanocarpa, Lecanora caesiosora, "Lecidea" commaculans, Metamelanea umbonata, Micarea coppinsii, M. marginata and Stereocaulon plicatile are reported for the first time for North America from Mt. Katahdin, Maine. A further 22 taxa for which the Mt. Katahdin records represent a significant extension of their range on the continent, mostly being first reports from either eastern North America or the contiguous United States, are also reported.
10.2307/3241332|Metzgeria litoralis sp. nov. is described from Chile (Patagonian Channels). Apometzgeria frontipilis (Lindb.) Kuw. & Engel comb. nov., from southern South America, is compared to the only other member of the genus, A. pubescens (Schrank) Kuw., which has a bipolar distribution.
10.2307/3244089|Syrrhopodon perangustifolius (Reese) Reese (Basionym: Syrrhopodon incompletus Schwaegr. var. perangustifolius Reese) is recognized at the specific rank following the discovery of a third specimen of this rare endemic of northwestern South America. This distinctive moss is reported new to the Colombian moss flora. Syrrhopodon perangustifolius is contrasted with its closest relative, S. lanceolatus (Hampe) Reese, and both species are illustrated. A key to the taxa of S. incompletus s.l. is provided.
10.2307/3241204|Four hundred twenty-seven species in 94 genera, 1 subspecies, 14 varieties, and 21 forms of lichens are known from Tennessee. Four species are reported for the first time. Anaptychia corallophora and A. microphylla are placed in the genus Heterodermia.
20110887|The extant members of the earliest diverging pleurocarpous moss lineages comprise few species but span a wide range of structural and molecular diversity, most of it restricted to temperate and high-altitude tropical forests in the Southern Hemisphere. We present the most comprehensive molecular phylogenetic study of these lineages to date, based on parsimony and Bayesian analyses of four regions from the chloroplast and mitochondrial genomes. In addition to corroborating the findings of parsimony methods in this and previous studies, the results of heterogeneous Bayesian analyses provide strong support for sub-topologies that are also consistently found under parsimony, but are rarely well supported. Careful model specification and investigation of potential sources of error increase confidence in the Bayesian results, which provide the basis for a substantially revised classification reflecting the best currently available hypothesis of evolutionary history. The genera previously classified in the Rhizogoniaceae, together with Orthodontium, Orthodontopsis, Aulacomnium and Calomnion, are recognized in three families, the Orthodontiaceae, Rhizogoniaceae and Aulacomniaceae, and three monofamilial orders, the Orthodontiales ord. nov., Rhizogoniales and Aulacomniales ord. nov. Many of the species previously recognized in Hypnodendron are placed in Sciadocladus, Touwiodendron gen. nov., Dendro-hypnum or Mniodendron. These genera, with the exception of Sciadocladus, are placed in the Hypnodendraceae together with Spiridens, Franciella, Cyrtopus and Bescherellia. Braithwaitea is excluded from the Hypnodendraceae and recognized in the monogeneric Braithwaiteaceae fam. nov., while Sciadocladus is placed with Pterobryella and Cyrtopodendron in the Pterobryellaceae. The Hypnodendraceae, Pterobryellaceae, Braithwaiteaceae and Racopilaceae are recognized in the order Hypnodendrales comb. et stat. nov. We discuss the advantages and limitations of ranked classification systems and propose the abandonment of intercalated Linnaean ranks between order and class levels in Bryopsida. Three node-based informal names, the Pleurocarpids, the Core Pleurocarps and the Homocostate pleurocarps, are defined to represent evolutionarily significant clades within the pleurocarpous group.
10.2307/3241498|Buffer extracts of various lichens react with a number of mono- and diamines to give colored products. Evidence seems to indicate that the observed reaction is enzymatically catalyzed. The possibility of an enzyme in lichens which catalyzes a Schiffs base reaction with amines is postulated.
10.2307/3242045|The following three species of Archidium from Africa are reported as new: Archidium acanthophyllum sp. nov., Archidium muellerianum sp. nov. and Archidium andersonianum sp. nov.
10.2307/3243322|The role of disturbance in maintenance of ecological dominance by Tetraphis pellucida Hedw. is examined in field studies and an empirical model. Patterns of compositional change in T. pellucida- dominated communities are summarized in a matrix of transition probabilities. Open substrate patches are most frequently replaced by asexual colonies which gradually change to the sexual state. Most sexual patches persist, or are overcome by competitors, but a significant fraction of the patches experience disturbance. A Markov model is used to predict the effects of varying disturbance frequency on the relative abundance of sexual, asexual, and senescent colonies, as well as on the success of competitors. Experimental reduction in disturbance frequency causes an increase in competitors and the local extinction of T. pellucida. Tetraphis pellucida maintains ecological dominance by exploiting frequently disturbed microsites. Its dual reproductive modes allow it to perpetuate itself by gemmae in frequent, local disturbances, and to escape to distant disturbances via spore production. Microhabitat preference of T. pellucida for decayed stumps over adjacent logs may be correlated with differing disturbance frequencies. These findings suggest that disturbance may be an important selective pressure in maintaining dual reproductive modes in this species.
10.2307/3244258|Logistic regression was used to model the response curves of seven aquatic bryophyte species from calcareous lowland streams of two hydrographic networks. Almost all the species exhibited log-normal response curves and significant optima when the data coming from the two hydrographic networks were simultaneously considered, but monotonic response curves within each of the hydrographic networks. The response curves of Amblystegium riparium in the Walloon hydrographic network, in the Alsatian hydrographic network, and in both networks considered simultaneously, showed a strong overlap. Conversely, Amblystegium fluviatile showed distinctly different response curves between the studied hydrographic networks. This was also the case for A. tenax, Fissidens crassipes, and Fontinalis antipyretica. Amblystegium tenax has a typical oligotrophic status in the Alsatian floodplain, but in the Walloon hydrographic network, is still present in the most polluted waters whose annual mean concentrations of N-NH
10.2307/3242225|Forty taxa of hepatics and 123 taxa of mosses are reported from the Ozark National Forest, Sylamore Division, and adjacent areas in Stone County, Arkansas. Habitat data for each taxon are given.
10.2307/3243550|The rediscovery of Cladonia perforata A. Evans, a lichen endemic to Florida, is reported from the western panhandle, evidently from near the type location. Its habitat and associates are discussed and compared to those described from the Lake Wales Ridge in Highlands County, where the only other living populations are known. Ambiguity in accounts of the collection location of the holotype is discussed.
3244925|Using spectral filters, Cladonia uncialis and Cladina rangiferina were exposed for seven days to visible light supplemented with two intensities of three different bands of ultraviolet in a growth chamber. The concentrations of lichen secondary products separated by thin-layer chromatography were then determined densitometrically. In Cladonia uncialis, higher intensity exposure to visible light enhanced with UV-A, while UV-B and UV-C were excluded, significantly increased usnic acid concentrations over control levels. However, less usnic acid accumulated under high intensity enhancement of both UV-A and UV-B. The effect of supplemental UV-A and UV-B was the same on atranorin concentrations in Cladina rangiferina. This suggested that UV-A caused increased accumulation of both compounds, but that the effect was negated by UV-B. Concentrations of usnic acid in natural populations of Cladina mitis were significantly lower in spring and summer when UV-B flux is greatest.
10.2307/3242085|One hundred fourteen species of bryophytes are reported from the Kickapoo River Valley in Vernon County, Wisconsin. Of these, eighty-five species are new reports for the county. Isopterygium distichaceum (Mitt.) Jaeg. & Sauerb. and Orthotrichum pusillum Mitt. are new for Wisconsin.
10.2307/3241304|Ten corticolous macrolichen species occurring in eleven upland forest stands in north central Oklahoma were tested for interspecific associations in the forest as a whole and on each of the two major oak species. Results indicate that association values for lichen pairs in the forest as a whole are generally not useful since they are composites of the association values on the two tree species. The two tree species are not equally inhabited by all lichens; hence, associations between lichens vary-somtimes radically-from one tree to another.
10.2307/3242025|A list is given of all known authors of names, combinations and changes in status of names of Hepaticae and Musci, with their dates and the present location of their original herbaria and of a considerable number of duplicate specimens.
10.2307/3242282|Eleven species and two varieties of mosses are reported as new to the Newfoundland bryoflora. Aongstroemia longipes (Somm.) B.S.G. is new to eastern North America and Hypnum cupressiforme var. lacunosum Brid. is confirmed from North America. Data are also provided on the Newfoundland distributions of 13 other species rare or otherwise restricted there.
40732262|Two collections of a chemically distinctive corticolous Buellia species were discovered in the herbarium of Sampaio at the University of Porto (PO). A detailed morphological and chemical study of the specimens, as well as of additional material for comparison purposes, showed that they agree with Buellia triseptata, only differing by containing xanthones. They are here provisionally regarded as representing a new chemotype of B. triseptata. Further, the generic assignment of B. triseptata is discussed.
10.2307/3242561|Eccremidium floridanum is described as new from Okaloosa County, northern Florida. The genus, previously unknown from the Western Hemisphere, is exceedingly rare and restricted in distribution. A pygmy moss related to Pleuridium, the new species has a short seta curved at the tip causing the short, hemispheric capsule to be laterally emergent or somewhat exserted. The capsules split along a submedian line of dehiscence marked by slightly smaller and somewhat oblate cells. The calyptra is mitrate, crenate-lobed, and widely flaring when dry. The spores are large and granulose-papillose. The closest relative, E. exiguum (Hook. f. & Wils.) Wils. ex Salm. of Australia and South Africa, differs in having thick-walled exothecial cells, smooth spores, and entire leaf tips.
10.2307/3241868|Caloric values for Campylium stellatum, Polytrichum hyperboreum and Polytrichum commune var. jensenii averaged 4390 cal. g
10.2307/3240645|The taxonomy, chemistry, and distribution of Pseudevernia are summarized. Of the six species, three (P. cladonia, P. consocians, and P. intensa) contain lecanoric acid and occur only in North and Central America. Three (P. furfuracea and P. soralifera with physodic acid and P. olivetorina with olivetoric acid) occur in Europe, North Africa, and as far east as Pakistan, with the sporadic occurrence of P. furfuracea in tropical America. This appears to be the most primitive genus in the Parmeliaceae.
10.2307/3244255|This paper treats four saxicolous species of Caloplaca occurring mainly in subtropical or semiarid regions in North and Central America, C. baueri, C. cinnabarina, C. rosei, and C. rubelliana. These species are mainly characterized by 1) a continuous to cracked areolate thallus, 2) thallus without marginal lobes, 3) areole margins broadly attached to the substrate, 4) cortex distinctly paraplectenchymatous, 5) immersed apothecia, and 6) containing anthraquinones. The group is not regarded as natural and consequently not given taxonomic status. Descriptions and distribution maps are provided for the taxa. Color illustrations or references to earlier published color illustrations are provided for all species. Additional notes are presented for two similar non American species, C. haematodes and C. subunicolor.
10.2307/3243051| A new species of Chonecolea Grolle, C. schusteri sp. nov. is described from Southern India. This constitutes a new record of the genus from Old World, which extends its range from the Neotropics to the Palaeotropics-a bicentric trans-oceanic disjunct distribution. The species approaches C. doellingeri (Nees) Grolle and C. andina Grolle et Va, the only two other species of the genus, in some features but does not fully resemble either. 
40732256|Patterns of diversity and distribution of bryophytes were surveyed across three different forest types: secondary montane forest and tree plantations of Cupressus lusitanica and of Pinus patula, in the Andean Central Cordillera of Colombia. A stratified sample design was employed to distribute 40 transects (50 X 40 m each) across forest types, each one conforming to a minimum often randomly selected plots of 1 m. One-Way ANOVA and rarefaction curves were employed to analyze species richness. Species richness was weighted by the total number of plots surveyed in each transect with a minimum of 10 plots with bryophytes present. Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) was used to analyze the patterns of distribution of bryophyte species among forest types. Correlation analyses were employed to test the influence of environmental and spatial factors for species richness and distribution. A total of 151 species were recorded. Weighted species richness was higher in secondary montane forests and cypress plantations than in pine plantations. Bryophyte abundances differed among forest types, with the highest level recored for the cypress plantations. The DCA showed a high floristic similarity among forest types. Soil pH, slope and light availability were the principle factors explaining bryophyte distribution, which support habitat specialization as the main mechanism addressing species distribution within forest types. At a mesoscale level, however, a continuous dispersal of propagules among forest types was considered the main mechanism determining the regional pattern of bryophyte distribution.
10.2307/3244257| The genus Japewiella Printzen, gen. nov. is separated from Japewia Tnsberg and placed in the family Lecanoraceae. Japewiella pacifica Printzen, sp. nov. is described as new. The species is closely related to the southwestern European J. carrollii (Coppins & P. James) Printzen, comb. nov. and the East Asian J. djagensis (Zahlbr.) Printzen, comb. nov. Differences between Japewia and Japewiella are discussed. Like the closely related Megalaria Hafellner and Tasmidella Kantvilas, Hafellern, & Elix, Japewiella seems to be a genus of humid temperate and subtropical regions, whereas the two known species of Japewia show a boreal-(sub)arctic-alpine distribution. 
10.2307/3240674|Abnormal archegonia have been observed in bisexual clusters of Physcomitrium cyathicarpum Mitt. In these the egg, the ventral canal cell, and the neck canal cells divide repeatedly to form a mass of androgonial cells. These aberrations point toward the homology of the two sex organs and represent a conversion of the archegonium into an antheridium. Such an expression of atavism might be a recapitulation of some phylogenetic interest.
10.2307/3241911|Twenty-three families, 38 genera, 75 species, 3 subspecies and 3 varieties of Hepaticae are reported from the mountains and foothills of west-central Alberta, Canada. Cephalozia bicuspidata subsp. ambigua, Lophozia ventricosa var. silvicola and Scapania degenii var. dubia are reported as new to the province.
3244287|Nephroma occultum Wetm. is a rare, epiphytic lichen associated with old-growth forests of northwestern North America. We describe its distribution, abundance, and habitat within the managed landscape of a southwestern Oregon watershed. Because this species is found mainly in the canopy, we used direct canopy access (tree climbing) in combination with ground (litter) searches for our surveys. We recommend this dual approach when confident determination of presence or absence of a canopy species is needed. Our surveys confirm that N. occultum is a rare old-growth associate within the area of this study, the southernmost extension of its known range. It was both rare across the landscape and uncommon in our primary study site, a 500 yr old stand. It was most often found growing close to the trunk on branches of large Pseudotsuga menziesii, but its distribution was sporadic even within an old-growth stand. The scarcity of very old stands, in combination with the limited ability of this species to disperse within and between stands, has likely contributed to its rarity within the watershed. Management for N. occultum should focus on populations and habitat needs rather than on individuals. Our calculations show that cutting with retention of individual trees surrounded by small buffers could result in the eventual loss of N. occultum from the study area.
10.2307/3243307|Instrumental neutron activation analysis was used to determine trace elements in Cladina mitis (Sandst.) Hale & Culb. along transects extending from uranium mines at Elliot Lake and Agnew Lake in central Ontario, Canada. Levels of 11 elements were reported and the presence of uranium (U) was confirmed, although U concentrations were much less than in Cladina rangiferina 10 years earlier. Among the elements identified in lichen thalli was Th, which occurred in higher concentrations than U. All trace elements, including the two radionuclides, were found in deteriorating thallus parts as well as living podetia, and five of these seem to have originated as airborne particulates from minesites. In spite of mine closures, levels of Th and U remained higher near sources of ore dust and there was little relationship between radionuclide concentrations in thallus and substrate.
10.2307/3241869|A new lichen, Hypotrachyna showmanii Hale (Parmeliaceae) is described. It has been collected in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia.
10.2307/3243459|Thirty-three species of epiphyllous liverworts are reported from Fengyangshan Nature Reserve, Zhejiang Province, China, including two species new to China: Cololejeunea subocelloides Mizut. and Cololejeunea subkodame Mizut.
10.2307/3243484| Sphagnum efibrillosum Andrews of Papua New Guinea is redescribed and illustrated, and its relationship to the Subsecunda rather than the section Isocladus is confirmed. Sphagnum bourbonense is described as a new species from Runion in the relationship of S. capense Hornsch. 
3244914|One hundred thirty-nine taxa of lichens including two lichen parasites are reported from St. Matthew and St. Paul Islands in the Bering Sea. Caloplaca lithophila is new to Alaska. Wide-ranging arctic-alpine and boreal species dominate the lichens; a coastal element is moderately represented, while amphi-Beringian species form a minor element. In comparison with St. Paul Island, St. Matthew Island is richer in arctic-alpine species.
20110910|A new moss species, Didymodon coquimbensis J. A. Jimnez & M. J. Cano, is described from Coquimbo Region in northern Chile. It is characterized mainly by its spirally twisted leaves when dry, the red to orange color in KOH, leaf apex strongly cucullate, costal guide cells in three layers with 5-9 cells in each layer, and a bulging ventral costal pad of cells. Drawings and SEM photographs of the main characters are given, and possible confusion with other closely related taxa is discussed.
20110815|Species' responses to disturbance depend in part on their life histories. In this study we examined the association between post-fire distribution and a few life history characteristics (growth form, presence of soredia, habitat preference and population size) for lichens in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness in northern Minnesota, U.S.A. We used sample plots set up two months after a wildfire in 1995, and defined fire-vulnerable and fire-favored species as those over- or under-represented in unburned versus burned plots eight years after the fire. Fire-vulnerable species (30% of species) were characterized by shade preference and crustose growth form. Fire-favored species (7% of species) were characterized by preference for dead wood. Rare species were over-represented in unburned plots. Species observed on charcoal, indicating post-fire colonization, were associated with high regional population size, estimated by sample plot frequency. These results suggest that habitat association and its mechanisms, along with population size, are presumably important predictors of species-specific response to disturbance, such as fire, for lichens in the boreal forest.
10.2307/3244383|Six populations of Syntrichia inermis (Brid.) Hueb. from the Nevada Mojave Desert were sampled every two weeks for a period of one year. Stem elongation rates were very low (0.14 mm yr.
10.2307/3243673|Development of rhizoidal heads in Leucobryum martianum from Cerro Jefe, Panama, is reported for the first time.
10.2307/3242987|Cytological observations are made on seven species of mosses belonging to five genera and two families. Chromosome counts for Leskea hyaloapiculata Dix. (n = 22), L. perstricta Dix. (n = 22) and Anomodon planatus Mitt. (n = 10) are reported for the first time. Chromosome number of Regmatodon orthostegius Mont. (n = 21) and Anomdon viticulosus (Hedw.) Hook & Tayl. (n = 10) do not agree with the earlier reports for these species. The number n = 11 for Herpetineuron toccoae (Sull. et Lesq. et Sull.) Card. (n = 11) agrees with previous findings for this taxon.
10.2307/3241359|Tortella mollissma Broth. ex Bartr. is reported for the first time from North America from a collection from Missouri.
10.2307/3241972|Thelopsis flaveola Arn., T. inordinata Nyl., T. melathelia Nyl. and T. rubella Nyl. are reported as new to North America.
10.2307/3241331|New-Amblystegium fluviatile var. noterophilum (Sull. & Lesq. ex Sull.) comb. nov., A. riparium fo. fluitans (Lesq. & James) comb, nov., Astomum occidentale sp. nov., Brachythecium delicatulum sp. nov., B. nelsonii var. intermedium var. nov., Bryoerythrophyllum recurvirostrum var. dentatum (Schimp.) comb. nov., Cratoneuron falcatum var. williamsii (Grout) stat. nov., Crossidium aberrans fo. epilosum fo. nov., Distichium capillaceum var. curvatum var. nov., Fissidens obtusifolius var. marginatus var. nov., Hygrophypnum luridum fo. serratum fo. nov. and fo. tenue fo. nov., Leskeella arizonae (Williams) comb. nov. and fo. flagellifera fo. nov., L. tectorum fo. cyrtophylla (Kindb. ex Macoun & Kindb.) stat. nov. and fo. flagellifera (Best) fo. nov., Orthotrichum macounii fo. vermiculare fo. nov., and Weissia perligulata sp. nov.
10.2307/3243778|A comparison was made of bryophytes on limestone and nonlimestone substrates at three locations in southeastern Australia: Jenolan Caves, London Bridge, and Attunga. Bryophyte abundance at each location was recorded in terms of number of species present and percent ground cover. At each location bryophytes collected from limestone substrates were more abundant, in number of species and in percent ground cover, than those collected from nonlimestone substrates. Some species were collected exclusively from limestone sites. Many bryophyte species present on limestone are more usually associated with arid and semiarid areas of Australia. Distribution of bryophytes on limestone and nonlimestone sites at Attunga appeared to have been affected by grazing stock.
10.2307/3241509|Since the discovery of Tholurna dissimilis Norm. in British Columbia in 1962 this rare lichen has been collected in several other localities in the Pacific Northwest. The first records for the United States are reported from the state of Washington.
10.2307/3241999|Zinc localization was investigated in mine stream bryophytes and in laboratory-cultured Fontinalis antipyretica Hedw. Cell walls contained 80-90% of the accumulated zinc; the presence of cationic Zn
10.2307/3241426|The growth of female involucres into ordinary vegetative thallus structures occurs in six additional species of Metzgeria: M. acuminata Steph. of Brazil, M. agnewii Kuwah., sp. nov., of Kenya, M. arborescens Steph. of Bolivia, M. filicina Mitt. of Ecuador, M. furcata (L.) Dum. of northwestern Europe, and M. liebmanniana Lindenb. & Gotts. of Mexico.
10.2307/3241715|Recent collections from Cuba (1969-1970) resulted in a number of new moss records for Cuba and revealed one new species, Fissidens Duryae Bizot, sp. nov.
10.2307/3241672|North American specimens of Buellia fimbriata (Tuck.) Sheard comb, nov., B. microbola (Fink) Sheard comb. nov., and B. nigra (Fink) Sheard comb. nov. were previously and incorrectly assigned to the genus Rinodina. Buellia verruculosa (Sm.) Mudd is reported as new to the North American flora.
10.2307/3240944|In North America there are eleven species of Cyphelium of which six are endemic. The new species C. brunneum is described from southern California and adjacent Mexico, and C. caliciforme is reported for the first time from North America. Cyphelium notarisii is reduced to the rank of a subspecies of C. tigillare.
10.2307/3244253|Hypotheses of character evolution require a phylogeny for polarization of transformations and optimization of state changes. Our goal is to provide a phylogenetic hypothesis for diplolepidous mosses to investigate the evolution of morphological features associated with the transition to pleurocarpy. We performed cladistic analyses of morphological and molecular data sets for exemplars of the main diplolepidous lineages. These analyses were designed to sample families commonly included in the Leucodontales, Hookeriales, and Hypnales with some exemplars also from the Bryales. Diplolepidous taxa (Bryaceae, Splachnaceae, Orthotrichaceae, Macromitriaceae, and Hedwigiaceae) were included as close outgroups, and Dicranum scoparium, Grimmia apocarpa, and Funaria hygrometrica were included as distant outgroups. We constructed a molecular data set derived from sequences of the chloroplast rbcL gene for 36 species, 22 of which were pleurocarp exemplars. In the molecular analysis, the bryalean pleurocarps were the sister group of acrocarp exemplars from the Bryales. However, in the analyses of combined morphological and rbcL data, the bryalean pleurocarps were the sister group of a clade that includes the 11 exemplars from the Leucodontales, Hypnales, and Hookeriales, thus pleurocarpy appeared monophyletic. Decay analyses suggested that the grouping of bryalean and hypnobryalean pleurocarps together was weak, whereas both the hypnobryalean and bryalean pleurocarp clades were individually robust. Present cladistic analyses provide an inferential basis for structural investigations of branching systems and the evolution of pleurocarpy in a phylogenetic context.
10.2307/3243781|Encalypta affinis subsp. macounii (Aust.) Hort. and E. brevipes Schljak. are newly recorded for eastern North America on specimens from the Torngat Mountains, northern Labrador. Both taxa appear to be glacial relicts, and their Torngat populations are considerably disjunct from other known localities in Greenland and western North America. They thus provide additional evidence for the existence of biological refugia in the Torngat through at least part of the Pleistocene glacial period.
10.2307/3241027|Dicranum scoparium, Ephemerum crassinervum, Fissidens ravenelii, Grimmia apocarpa, Orthotrichum pumilum, and Platygyrium repens are reported as additions to the flora of Louisiana. Distributional records and comments are given for three other species.
10.2307/3243756| Crassicosta hermannii H. A. Crum & Sharp, a genus and species described from northeastern Mexico, is taxonomically synonymous with Haplocladium angustifolium (Hampe & Mll Hal. in Mll Hal) Broth. 
10.2307/3242516|World distribution of the species of Dimelaena and Thamnolia, and chemical variants, are considered in relation to current concepts of continental drift. It is concluded that both genera date from the Permian-Triassic and paleogeographies of species and chemotypes are presented which are consistent with the established sequence of continental movements. In addition, long-distance dispersal has probably occurred in both species of Thamnolia. Seven chemotypes of Dimelaena oreina are now known and are interpreted as belonging to three races with differing paleogeographies. The races correspond to the fumarprotocetraric acid, gyrophoric/acid deficient chemotypes and the stictic/ norstictic chemotypes. They have not been given taxonomic recognition, however, because the acid deficient chemotype may not be genetically homogenous, possibly incorporating acid deficient phases of the two other races in addition to the acid deficient phase of the gyrophoric acid chemotype. The fumarprotocetraric and gyrophoric acid chemotype incorporates substances of two races and does not occur outside the area of sympatry. This chemotype is best regarded as either a cross or a mycobiont chimera of its constituent races.
10.2307/3243159| Lophozia kiaerii Jrg. was described mainly on the basis of mixed material of L. excisa (Dicks.) Dumort. and L. longidens (Lindb.) Mac. The L. excisa element is selected as the lectotype of L. kiaerii. 
10.2307/3241328|Two species of the genus Coccotrema (syn. Perforaria) are reported from North America, both from the west coast. Coccotrema maritimum sp. nov. is restricted to maritime rocks, and C. pocillarium (Cumm.) comb. nov. is a sorediate species found mainly on tree bark and wood. A discussion of possible phytogeographic connections in the Pacific basin is presented together with descriptions and illustrations of both species.
10.2307/3242513|The rate of photosynthesis (
10.2307/3242510|Seventy-four lichens were found on Populus tremuloides Michx. in western central Alberta. Nine of these, Alectoria fuscescens Gyeln., A. lanestris (Ach.) Gyelyn., Bacidia chlorococca (Graewe ex Stizenb.) Lett., Collema subflaccidum Degel., Lecania dimera (Nyl.) Th.Fr., Nephroma helveticum Ach., Parmelia trabeculata Ahti, Physcia setosa (Ach.) Nyl. fo. virella (B. de Lesd.) and an apparently undescribed species of Bacidia had not been reported for Alberta. The geographic distribution, vertical distribution and aspect preferences of each species are described. The following North American distribution elements are represented: boreal temperate montane (23%), boreal-montane (26%), arctic-boreal alpine-montane (26%), arctic-temperate alpine-montane (9%), boreal temperate (4%), cordilleran (3%), boreal (1%), boreal-aspen parkland (1%) and eastern boreal-subtropical (1%). In comparing the aspen epiphytic lichen flora with ten other areas in western North America, the study area was found to be most similar to that of Prince Albert National Park, Saskatchewan, Canada.
10.2307/3242697|Recent nomenclatural changes for American Calymperes and Syrrhopodon are summarized, and an index is provided to the changes and to some of the new data published for these mosses since the genera were revised for the Americas. A key for identification of the American taxa of Calymperes and Syrrhopodon is given.
10.2307/3240581|The new genus Apotreubia is described to accommodate Treubia nana, which differs too greatly from the four other species currently considered to belong to the genus Treubia to be classified among them.
10.2307/3243030|This paper examines the theoretical and practical status of species relative to two major issues: the recognition of the importance of epigenetic constraints in evolution and the rise of Hennigian phylogenetic systematics (cladistics). Theories advanced to explain the origin and maintenance of basic morphological clusters of organisms (species) have usually involved two main classes of causal factors: selection (ecological constraints) and gene flow (breeding barriers vs. the integrating effect of gene exchange). However, in many plants non-correspondence of patterns of discontinuities among basic morphological, ecological, and breeding groups has been noted. The "biological species concept" is flawed because it is biased towards explanations at the genetic level. A third class of causal factors (epigenetic constraints) has come into favor as an explanation for the distinctness of higher-level morphological clusters, but the relevance of epigenetic factors as primary constraints on morphological variation at the species level remains to be examined. A phylogenetic species concept is advocated, which views species as monophyletic groups of organisms, the smallest such groups recognized in a formal classification. Assignment of species rank to a particular group should depend on the causal factors acting to maintain that group as an independent lineage. Epigenetic constraints may prove to be the most important factor producing and maintaining species lineages. Bryophytes are useful organisms for investigating this question because they are readily manipulated under experimental conditions, both sexual and asexual species exist, and a diversity of ecological and geographic specificities are known.
3244156|Classification of families of hypnobryalean mosses into the Hypnales, Leucodontales, and Hookeriales has been taxonomically difficult. Several researchers have sequenced different genes for independent phylogenetic studies of these three pleurocarp groups. Our goal is to summarize available molecular data and compile the largest data set to infer phylogenetic relationships among families as basis for classification at ordinal level. Sequences of rbcL, trnL-F, and rps4 loci for 38 exemplars of most families of Hypnales, Leucodontales, and Hookeriales were analyzed to evaluate whether or not each of the three orders is monophyletic. Cladistic analyses of combined sequences, using five taxa in the Bryales as outgroups, reveal a robust clade (decay > 5) including all hypnobryalean pleurocarps. Within this group, one clade (decay = 2) includes only taxa of the Hookeriales, and is sister to a large monophyletic group (Hypnales sensu lato) containing all other taxa (decay = 2) previously in the Leucodontales and Hypnales. These relationships suggest that the ordinal level taxonomy needs to be reconsidered since major lineages detected do not correspond to the traditional Leucodontales or Hypnales. These two orders are not supported by any molecular evidence from rbcL, trnL-F, or rps4, either analyzed singly or in different combinations. Additionally, present results indicate the need for changes to the current system of three suborders of Hypnales and four of the Leucodontales. Phylogenetic reconstructions based on molecular data emphasize the need for a re-examination of the taxonomic relevance of morphological characters and corroborate previous interpretations of sporophytic morphological similarities as multiple transitions to similar solutions to epiphytism among the pleurocarps.
10.2307/3243712|The protologue of Jungermannia multipenna Hook. f. & Tayl., described from an Auckland Island collection of Hooker, is a combination of two elements: It describes plants with red-brown pigments and bilabiate perianths and pale green plants with trigonous perianths. The two elements are discussed here and the species is typified by selection of the Chiloscyphus element, thus confirming observations made by J. D. Hooker in the last century. A lectotype is selected for the species, Chiloscyphus multipennus (Hook. f. & Tayl.) Engel & Schust.
10.2307/3244261|Hilpertia velenovskyi (Schiffn.) Zander is reported new to the Arctic. Hilpertia scotteri (Zander and Steere) Zander is treated as a synonym of H. velenovskyi, and a full description is given. This is only the third locality known from North America of this now monotypic genus. Hilpertia velenovskyi is considered a xerophyte centered in Eurasia from central east Europe to China with northern disjunct populations in continental Asia, and disjunctions in Pre-Holocene refugial regions of Canada.
10.2307/3244475|Pseudocyphellaria arvidssonii is reported as new to Africa from the Canary Islands and P. mallota new to North America from the Pacific northwest of U.S.A.
10.2307/3240895|The spores of Funaria hygrometrica germinate in distilled water or in inorganic nutrient media in light and only to a very limited extent in darkness. In nutrient solutions of glucose, fructose, maltose, or sucrose in 50% Hoaglands solution, germination occurred under both light and dark conditions. Germination was stimulated by all four sugars at concentrations of 0.01% through 10% and even at 0.001% with glucose and sucrose. No germination occurred in sugar solutions of 20%. Germination percentages were greater when tests were carried out in light than in darkness, although darkness had a less inhibitory effect in stronger than in weaker sugar solutions. In all cases where the sugar stimulated germination, the protonemata swelled to large sizes and accumulated much starch. The significance, if any, of these peculiar germinating habits is unknown.
3244142|This investigation of the phylogeny of the lichen genus Parmotrema (Parmeliaceae) includes 43 of approximately 300 species. It also includes one species each of Canomaculina, Rimelia and Parmotremopsis, and two each of Flavoparmelia and Cetrelia, the last being used to root the tree. A parsimony analysis of 54 morphological and chemical characters resulted in 32 most parsimonious trees. The strict consensus tree is largely resolved and shows all terminal taxa, with the exception of the two Cetrelia species, forming part of the ingroup. However, the results were not strongly supported by a bootstrap test and hence should be interpreted with caution. Nevertheless, the very uncertainty of the results indicates that these traditionally used characters, which have been the basis of the classifications of this group to date, are not helpful discriminators at this level. Due to the weak support of the branches, we make no formal proposals, but the parsimony analysis indicates that Rimelia and Canomaculina may be better treated as subgenera of Parmotrema.
10.2307/3241844| Sphagnum riparium ngstr. is reported from northeastern Washington as new to the contiguous western United States. 
10.2307/3242057| Fifty-nine moss species are added to the known flora of Venezuela based mainly on collections from the state of Mrida. Three previously unreported genera, Pleuridium, Aloinella and Phascum are included without determined species. The latter do not agree with any described species. 
10.2307/3243331|Campylopus japonicus Broth., a species previously known from east and southeast Asia and Mexico, is reported as new to Canada, where it was collected on the Queen Charlotte Islands.
3244937|Xanthoparmelia scabrosa is a foliose lichen that grows abundantly on pedestrian and automobile asphalt in New Zealand, which are considered inhospitable habitats for lichens. Samples were collected at eight localities ranging from urban streets to very rural roads and analyzed for 28 chemical elements in order to determine elemental chemistry and to test hypotheses about tolerance mechanisms. Anthropogenic elements (Cu, Pb, and Zn) decreased significantly from urban to rural areas, while nutritional elements (K, P, and S) increased. Samples from urban areas contained 10% calcium. Sulfur was elevated at both urban and rural sites, possibly due to pollution in the former site and higher levels of sulfur-containing scabrosin esters at the rural sites. The ability of this lichen to accumulate high levels of Cu, Pb and Zn may make it useful as a remediation tool.
40732295|The taxonomic position of several European corticolous lichen species with conspicuous pycnidia and chlorococcoid photobiont is currently unsatisfactory and is here examined with maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian inferences using mtSSU sequences.Lecidea doliiformis is resolved as a member of the Micarea assimilata-group and Catillaria alba as sister to the recently described Biatora ligni-mollis. Therefore, L. doliiformis is transferred to Micarea [M. doliiformis (Coppins & P. James) Coppins & Srus. comb, nov.], and a new name is introduced for the transfer of C.alba into Biatora (B. veteranorum Coppins & Srus.nom. nov.). Biatora ligni-mollis, recently described from primary forests in British Columbia (Canada), is shown to be a rare but widespread species in Western Europe (Belgium, France, Germany, Poland and Scotland) where it is not confined to undisturbed forests.
10.2307/3241357|Cell-free extracts from axenic male cultures of Sphaerocarpos texanus show glutamic-oxalacetic and glutamic-pyruvic transaminase activity. The glutamic-oxalacetic system has greater activity than the glutamic-pyruvic system. Two vitamin B
3244666|The only member of the lichen genus Dermiscellum, D. catawbensis, has been found to be synonymous with a name published over a decade earlier by Edward Tuckerman. Thus, in order to correct this case of forgotten priority, Opegrapha oulocheila Tuckerman is placed in the genus Dermiscellum to replace the name D. catawbense. The typification of both names is discussed and the holotype of O. oulocheila is figured for the first time.
23321073|Many of the species living on our planet remain undiscovered, among these over one million Fungi. One approach to account for undescribed species is the search in unusual habitats. Here we report on the unexpected finding of a new species of Lepidostroma (Atheliales: Lepidostromataceae) from the semi-arid Caatinga biome in northeastern Brazil. It is only the fifth species of this enigmatic genus and only the third from the Neotropics, and the fourth species to be described within the past four years. DNA was extracted and the ITS and nuLSU partitions of the nuclear rDNA were sequenced. A phylogenetic tree was computed under a maximum likelihood framework using an alignment of selected Basidiomycota (Atheliales, Agaricales, Boletales, Russulales, Cantharellales). The new species differs from other species in the genus by the crustose rather than squamulose thallus. Molecular sequence data place the species as unsupported sister to Lepidostroma akagerae. The crustose thallus resembles that of Multiclavula species, which are phylogenetically unrelated. This study underlines that novel lichenized Fungi can be discovered in unusual habitats. The Caatinga vegetation is to a large extent threatened by habitat destruction and the discovery of such an unusual species underlines the importance of this unique biome for conserving diversity in tropical South America. Systematically, the new species is relevant because it represents the only species of Lepidostroma with a crustose, Multiclavula-like thallus, presenting a striking example of parallel evolution in lichenized Basidiomycota.
10.2307/3241595| The presence of the basidiolichen Cora pavonia (Web.) Fr. in Florida is confirmed. Physma byrsinum (Ach.) Mll. Arg. is reported as new to the state; this record may also be the first report of the species from North America. 
10.2307/3243246|The leaves of Wilkiea macrophylla provide an environment on which succession in foliicolous lichen species can occur. The pioneer species are Tricharia albostrigosa and Sporopodium xantholeucum which appear to grow best as isolated thalli. These are gradually replaced by spreading species such as Porina epiphylla, Porina impressa, and by discrete but apparently competition-resistant species such as Mazosia melanophthalma. Where leaf damage has occurred, Strigula subtilissima and Strigula complanata are present around the wound margins. Tricharia albostrigosa and Strigula complanata are new records for Australia.
10.2307/3243863|The worldwide Hale keys to the 406 species of Xanthoparmelia are here extracted for the 55 species occurring in North America and Mexico.
10.2307/3242284| Twenty-one mosses and one hepatic are reported new to the Yukon Territory, Canada. Included are phytogeographically significant range extensions for Gollania turgens (C.Muell.) Ando, Isopterygiopsis muelleriana (Schimp.) Iwat., Oligotrichum parallelum (Mitt.) Kindb. and Gymnomitrion apiculatum (Schiffn.) K.Mll. 
20485790|A new Orthotrichum species, O. karoo, is described. The moss has a gametophyte similar to that of O. diaphanum, from which it mainly differs in its peristome lacking exostome teeth. It is known from three localities in western South Africa, and from one more in southern Namibia. In all these localities it was found growing on shrubs and trees, rarely on rocks, in succulent karoo and related types of vegetation.
10.2307/3242750|Recent literature on patterns of chemical variation in the lichen-forming ascomycetes is reviewed, and correlations of chemical variation patterns with respect to morphology at the generic level are presented. At the subgeneric level, reports can be grouped into: (1) examples showing distinct correlations of lichen chemistry with morphology or geography, and (2) examples showing weak correlations of lichen chemistry with morphology or geography, where chemical patterns follow morphological or geographical trends or tendencies. The recognition of chemical strains, where no correlations of chemistry with morphology or geography exist, is documented in the final section of the paper.
10.2307/3241841|Forty-one hepatics, including two new to the state, are reported for the first time from seven counties in northeastern Wisconsin. The total number of species known from Wisconsin is 124.
41289787|Orthotrichum pilosissimum is described from herbarium material and recently collected specimens in the state of Nevada. Its specific epithet refers to the diagnostic hyper-developed axillary hairs, which are frequently longer than 1 mm, multiseriate and branched, covering most of the stems surface and sometimes protruding from the foliose shoots. These hairs are not only unique in the genus but also among mosses, providing a reliable diagnostic character for the new taxon. Additional gametophytic and sporophytic characters that contribute to its taxonomie delimitation are also given.
10.2307/3241648|Fifteen species of lichens are added to the known flora of Uruguay.
40982990|Heiomasia is a new genus that includes two sterile species producing unique isidia-like structures for vegetative dispersal. Their systematic position was clarified using molecular analysis of the small subunit of the mitochondrial ribosomal DNA (mtSSU). The two species form a strongly supported clade occupying a somewhat isolated position within Graphidaceae s. lat. The new genus is based on H. sipmanii (Aptroot, Lucking 8c Rivas Plata) Nelsen, Lucking & Rivas Plata comb, nov. y a species from Southeast Asia with disc-shaped isidia-like structures, originally described in the genus Herpothallon. The second species, H. seaveyorum Nelsen & Lucking spec, nov., is known only from Florida; it produces robust, sausage-shaped isidia-like structures.
10.2307/3242915|Eight species of mosses are reported from the island of Newfoundland for the first time: Aulacomnium turgidum (Wahlenb.) Schwaegr., Cinclidium subrotundum Lindb., Desmatodon leucostomus (R. Br.) Berggr., Grimmia incurva Schwaegr., Mielichhoferia elongata. Hornsch., M. macrocarpa (Hook, ex Drumm.) Bruch & Schimp. ex Jaeg. & Sauerb., Schistidium trichodon (Brid.) Poelt, and Tortella arctica (Arnell) Crundw. & Nyh. The Newfoundland occurrences of Grimmia incurva, Mielichhoferia macrocarpa, and Schistidium trichodon all represent major range extensions. Notes are also given on three other species rare in eastern North America.
3244590|New taxa, including Squamella spumosa, gen. nov. et sp. nov. S. Hammer, and seven new species in the genus Cladonia, C. acervata S. Hammer, C. attacta S. Hammer, C. complanata S. Hammer, C. cucullata S. Hammer, C. glebosa S. Hammer, C. imbricata S. Hammer, and C. nudicaulis S. Hammer, are described. New records for the lichen family Cladoniaceae in Australia are introduced or confirmed.
10.2307/3242272|The occurrence of polysety in 15 moss species in Nigeria is reported for the first time. The nature of polysety in Octoblepharum albidum Hedw. and Calymperes subdecolorans Card. has been investigated. Polysety was recorded in 5.8% and in 13.1% of inflorescences in C. subdecolorans and in O. albidum, respectively. It was accompanied by a reduction in viability of the spores but not always by smaller capsules and fewer spores.
20485780|Recent surveys of the inland rain forests of British Columbia and adjacent regions have brought to light an unexpectedly rich epiphytic lichen flora, including several species apparently new to science. In the first of a series of papers, we describe eight species discovered during these surveys as new: Absconditella amabilis T. Sprib. (Ostropales), Bacidina contecta S. Ekman & T. Sprib., Biatora aureolepra T. Sprib. & Tnsberg, Biatora ligni-mollis T. Sprib. & Printzen (all Lecanorales), Collema coniophilum Goward (Peltigerales), Pertusaria diluta C. Bjrk, G. Thor & T. Wheeler (Pertusariales), Schaereria brunnea C. Bjrk, T. Sprib. & T. Wheeler (Ostropomycetidae incertae sedis) and Scoliciosporum abietinum T. Sprib. (Lecanorales). We also call attention to a ninth species, Bacidina sp. A, a poorly known and possibly undescribed colonizer of moribund cyanolichens. A majority of the above species appear to be confined to old-growth forests, while two (Biatora ligni-mollis and Schaereria brunnea) are currently known only from "antique" forests older than about 500 years. Many additional undescribed epiphytic lichens are known from inland rain forests, underscoring the need for further baseline biodiversity research in light of its ongoing disappearance as a result of resource extraction. In addition to the eight new species, we report Absconditella celata as new to North America, Absconditella lignicola as new to Canada and Montana, Bacidina chloroticula as new to British Columbia and Gyalideopsis piceicola as new to Montana.
3244894| Observations of the gemmae of 135 specific and subspecific taxa of Calymperes, Mitthyridium, and Syrrhopodon reveal that the gemmae of most taxa have a generalized morphology. However, the morphologies of some of the gemmae differ among species and species-groups, revealing evolutionary divergence at the levels of genus and subgenus, in which gemmae vary in shape, color, surface texture, appendages, and in average size (from about 75 m long in S. orientalis to more than 1,600 m long in S. helicophyllusj. Divergence from the generalized gemma morphology reflects the ecological life styles of the taxa, as for example in Syrrhopodon subg. Pseudocalymperes, in which filiform or moniliform gemmae borne in splashcups correlate with the commonly ramicolous habitat. 
10.2307/3242843| The pantropical genus Cetrariastrum ( = Everniastrum Hale) has its center of diversity in the highlands of northern South America and of Mesoamerica but it also occurs in the mountains of southern Africa and southern Asia. It was probably differentiated in Gondwanaland, but tropical-island disjunctions reveal the efficacy of long-distance dispersal for a few of its commonest species. Two species earlier thought to belong to it but endemic to a xeric region of southeastern South America differ in having exceptionally thick upper cortices riddled with special algae-containing chambers, an apparent adaptation to their harsh habitat. They form the new genus Concamerella. Both Cetrariastrum and Concamerella have secondary-product chemistries characterized by -orcinol depsidones and fatty acids. Excluding the fatty acids, 17 known compounds are reported from the former and seven from the latter, based upon the thin-layer chromatographic analyses of 415 specimens. Three species earlier included in Everniastrum are assigned to Parmotrema or Hypotrachyna. Cetrariastrum consists of 23 species; 22 of these comprise four that are new, six that are validations of older names and 12 that are new combinations. 
20110755|The hepatic genus Tritomaria (Jungermanniaceae subfam. Lophozioideae) is new to the south temperate. Tritomaria exsecta subsp. novaezelandiae subsp. nov. is described and illustrated from New Zealand. The distribution of each of the eight species of the genus is summarized.
41289807|Usnea species with a red-orange cortical or subcortical pigmentation were studied in the tropical Andes (Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia) and the Galapagos Islands. Sixteen species are treated, 14 occurring in the Andes and six in the Galapagos. Usnea evocata, U. grandisora (endemic to the Galapagos), U. rubrcornuta and U. subdasaea are newly described. Usnea dorogawensis, U. michauxii U. subcornuta and U. subrubicunda are new to South America. Tri-terpenoids detected by thin layer chromatography play an important role in the taxonomy of this group of species. Several species were found both in the Andes and the Galapagos, and the diversity of species integrates elements from North America, tropical Africa, Macaronesia and even Asia. This emphasizes the importance of examining large geographic areas to better understand global distribution patterns in this cosmopolitan genus.
10.2307/3243717|Three boreal fen mosses are reported new to the southern Rocky Mountains of Colorado. Scorpidium scorpioides (Hedw.) Limpr. occurs in extreme rich fens in the area of South Park. It occupies seasonal pools in high elevation mires where high pH and marl deposits occur. Paludella squarrosa (Hedw.) Brid. forms cushions in two rich fens above treeline on Guanella Pass where it is fed by water with nearly neutral pH. Sphagnum contortum K. F. Schultz occurs in two poor to intermediate fens in mires on the edge of small moraine-dammed ponds in Rocky Mountain National Park. It forms a continuous carpet at the water's edge where it is seasonally flooded. All three species are new to the southern Rocky Mountains and occur in similar habitats to those described for these species in boreal mires. The presence of these species and knowledge of their ecology help elucidate the relationship between the southern Rocky Mountain and the boreal mire floras.
10.2307/3241069|Characteristics of the thallus and spores of the species called Parmelia albata indicate that it should be classified in the genus Physcia and the appropriate new combination is made.
10.2307/3240990|Plagiochila steyermarkii is described as new on the basis of very deeply bilobed leaves.
10.2307/3241677|Rhizomnium andrewsianum (Steere) Kop., a high-arctic circumpolar moss, is reported as new to Finland upon a collection made in the Kuusamo District, and as new to Norway upon a recently discovered herbarium specimen from the county of Finnmark.
40982993|Didymodon oedocostatus J. A. Jimnez & M. J. Cano is described and illustrated as a new species from Catamarca and Tucumn provinces in northwestern Argentina. The new taxon is characterized mainly by its appressed and imbricate leaves when dry, the red to orange reddish color in KOH, abundant propagulae in the axils of the leaves, smooth laminai cells, a wider costa at midleaf than below, and the presence of a bulging ventral costal pad of cells. Its distinction from and relationships with some closely related species within the genus are discussed.
10.2307/3241182|Mnium nudum is described and illustrated with emphasis on a character not previously reported, the thickenings in the walls of the leaf cells.
10.2307/3244394|At the present time 135 cetrarioid lichen species can be listed. According to recent revisionary work they are placed into 22 genera. Six new genera (Arctocetraria, Cetrariella, Flavocetraria, Kaernefeltia, Nimisia and Tuckneraria) have been separated since 1993 when the first world list of cetrarioid lichens was presented. The genus Cetrariopsis is included in Nephromopsis in this paper. An alphabetical list of all epithets that have been applied to cetrarioid lichens is given, and the generic name to which they have been assigned is indicated in brackets. The author(s) of each combination, as well as the issue of its valid publication, together with the page and year are also presented. The currently accepted combination is indicated for each epithet. Two new combinations are proposed: Nephromopsis pallescens var. citrina (Taylor) Thell & Randlane and Nephromopsis laii (Thell & Randlane) Saag & Thell.
10.2307/3243652|Dicranum flagellare Hedw. depends primarily on the dispersal of asexual brood branches to colonize disturbance gaps on decaying logs. Forest slugs appear to be a significant dispersal vector. Propagules became entrapped in the slug secretions and were deposited in the slime trail. Field and laboratory trials demonstrated that slugs can detach and transport brood bodies at least 23 cm from the colony, although the mean dispersal distance was only 3.7 cm. The presence of slug secretions did not affect propagule germination rate, but did significantly increase adherence to the substrate.
10.2307/3241831|Orthotrichum flowersii sp. nov. from Utah is distinguished from O. pumilum and O. pallens by very blunt, carinate, ovate-oblong leaves. Orthotrichum pallens var. crenulatum from Utah and O. pallens var. johnsenae from Arizona are described as new. A key differentiating the critical taxa of this group in western North America is presented.
10.2307/3243806|Barbella cubensis is reduced to a synonym of the previously endemic Hawaiian species B. trichophora, which is also confirmed for New Caledonia.
20110748|The new lichen species Xanthomendoza galericulata L. Lindblom is described from the western United States. It is characterized by helmet-shaped lobe tips, under which soralia are found. Xanthomendoza galericulata is broadly distributed in drier pars of western North America. Information on other small sorediate taxa in the genus, namely X. fulva, X. oregana, and X. weberi (S. Kondr. & Krnefelt) L. Lindblom comb. nov., is provided as well as a key to all North American sorediate Xanthomendoza species.
3244850| Gyalideopsis moodyae Lendemer & Lcking, a new species from eastern North America belonging to the G. muscicola group, is described. It is separated from other species in the group by its apothecial morphology, hyphophore type, and small 3-5 transversely septate spores. 
10.2307/3243099|It is concluded that there is only one species of Monoclea, M. forsteri Hook. It occurs in New Zealand, south and central America and some Caribbean Islands.
10.2307/3240943|Sphagnum splendens, a nonfibrillose species related to S. recurvum var. mucronatum, is described as new from Quebec.
10.2307/3241645|Ramalina subdecipiens J. Stein., as well as other compressed species of the R. decipiens group in Macaronesia, should be considered part of the R. siliquosa species complex. The reported occurrence of 4-O-demethylbarbatic acid together with salazinic acid in R. subdecipiens is shown to be in error since individual thalli contain either one or the other acid.
10.2307/3240631|Funaria polaris, described in 1906 by Bryhn, remained unknown, except for the original collection, until 1949 when it was rediscovered on Southampton Island in the Canadian Arctic. Since then many further collections from Greenland, from Alaska, and from Southampton, Victoria and Banks Islands in the Canadian Arctic, illuminate the pattern of geographical distribution. The rather general association of this moss with habitats enriched by lemmings is noted as significant in indicating a special nutritional requirement.
10.2307/3243004|Forty-four new moss species are reported from Israel for the first time. Distributional notes and habitat descriptions are provided for these species. Syntrichia echinata (Schiffn.) Herrnst. & Ben-Sasson is a new combination for Tortula echinata Schiffn.
10.2307/3243697|The new species Parmelia masonii, an apparent Himalayan endemic, is distinguished from other members of the genus by the distinctive brown color, lack of atranorin in the upper cortex, and presence of fatty acids or fumarprotocetraric acid, or both, in the medulla. The lichen genus Parmelia is now known to contain a total of 39 species.
10.2307/3240604|Fissidens neonii (Bartr.) Grout has been found for the first time since the original collection in 1931. Growth studies show that new plants commonly arise from buried sterile stems and from rhizoids. Male, female, and sterile plants are morphologically distinct and are independent at maturity; all three types may originate from the same leaf axil or rhizoid. Fissidens neonii does not appear to be closely related to any other North American species of the genus.
10.2307/3244023|One hundred six species of saxicolous lichens are reported from a quartzite sandstone rockslide in the Canadian Rocky Mountains at Jasper National Park, Alberta. A number of rare species are present, including Phylliscum demangeonii, Rhizocarpon alpicola, and Arctoparmelia subcentrifuga. The site is considered as a number of microhabitats and most lichens are found to be microhabitat specific. It is concluded that the lichen flora of the Canadian Rockies is highly understudied.
10.2307/3241721|In June 1971 the Canadian Botanical Association and the American Institute of Biological Sciences held their first joint meeting, in Edmonton, Alberta. The pre-meeting field trip (No. 2) of the American Bryological and Lichenological Society consisted of 13 collecting stops in the Canadian Rocky Mountains and foothills in the Banff-Jasper area of Alberta. The participants collected 112 taxa of mosses and 42 of hepatics. Of these, Hylocomium pyrenaicum, Oligotrichum hercynicum, and Moerkia blyttii were collected for the first time in Alberta.
41289815|The particular combinations of life history traits that organisms display are a product of trade-offs between conflicting demands on finite energy budgets. Organisms are, therefore, expected to display combinations of co-evolved life history traits, sometimes referred to as tactics or strategies, that overall maximize fitness within the constraints imposed by environmental and/or genetic limitations. This study uses a combination of Principal Component and Cluster analyses to examine patterns of life history co-variation in the family Lophoziaceae, based on data obtained from literature. We also evaluate the relationship between sexuality, reproductive mode and sporophyte/gemma frequency among members of this family. The species studied are resolved into more or less coherent groups that have specific life history trait combinations. No evidence of either phylogenetic constraint or close relationship to habitat parameters could be demonstrated. The results suggest trade-offs between spore frequency and gemma frequency. Dioicous species dominate the family, with about 90% of the species being dioicous. The relationship between sexuality and sporophyte frequency is statistically significant: monoicous species produce sporophytes more frequently than dioicous species. Mode of reproduction and gemmae production were both independent of sexuality. For species that can reproduce both ways, sexuality was independent of diaspore frequency. The data are consistent with the idea of coevolved life history "strategies" as in most others organisms studied.
10.2307/3243181|The use of acetic-haematoxylin solution squashes of mitotic and meiotic chromosomes of bryophytes is described. The concentration of the solution is 2 g of haematoxylin (Merck) in 100 cc of 45% acetic acid. The mordant is iron acetate. Two schedules are presented: (1) meiotic chromosomes of mosses and (2) somatic chromosomes of liverworts and mosses. Hoyer's mounting medium is employed to make slides permanent.
10.2307/3244053|Ditrichum venezuelanum Griffin from Venezuela is shown to be both autoicous, and synonymous with Ditrichum bogotense (Hampe) Broth. from Colombia.
10.2307/3242011|Currently, the known alpine moss flora of Mexico is represented by 94 species and varieties. Besides new alpine stations for several species, I report 10 species which are additions to this flora. Among, the latter, Tortula densifolia (Hook. f. & Wils.) Hook. f. & Wils. is new to the country.
10.2307/3241734|Nine hepatic and 32 moss taxa are added to the known flora of Alaska based on the writers 1967 collections; also three dubious earlier reports are verified and new stations included for two rare species.
10.2307/3243466|Syrrhopodon simmondsii Steere is reported new to Panama and Central America on a specimen collected on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.
10.2307/3242934| Sixty-four new records are added to the Department of Antioquia moss flora. Twenty-three of these are newly reported for Colombia, one of which is a new species: Trichosteleum mastopomatoides. One new combination is provided, Sematophyllum chlorocormum (C. Muell.) Buck, Churchill & Sastre. Fifteen new records are also added to the Department of Choc, one of which is new to Columbia. 
10.2307/3241701|Fifteen species and the genus Gyrostomum are reported for the first time from Argentina. Parmelia crozalsiana, Usnea dichroa var. spinulosa, and U. mutabilis are new to South America.
10.2307/3241809|The distribution of gametangia in 3 species of Splachnobryum, 2 of Tetraplodon, 3 of Tayloria, and 2 of Splachnum has been studied. Some specimens of Splachnobryum obtusum possess lateral, solitary antheridia, in contrast to the typical male heads in other species of Splachnobryum. Archegonia are present not only singly in this genus but also clustered at the apex, resembling a head. Solitary archegonia, a well-known feature in Splachnobryum, are also present in some specimens of Splachnum sphaericum and S. wormskioldii, along with the female heads. Pedestals are present only beneath solitary archegonia.
10.2307/3241570|Fragmentary remains of an epiphyllous moss resembling the extant Ephemeropsis tjibodensis occur in Australian Lower Miocene sediments associated with epiphyllous fungi.
10.2307/3241447|Achrophyllum is proposed as a new name for Pterygophyllum sensu Broth.
10.2307/3241727| Scapania massalongoi K. Mller, new to the North American hepatic flora, is reported from a lowland habitat in Nova Scotia. 
10.2307/3244505|Examination of types indicates that Hypnum oxycladon Brid. is a synonym of Brachythecium acuminatum (Hedw.) Aust., and that B. laetum (Brid.) B.S.G. is the earliest available name for material usually called B. oxycladon (Brid.) Jaeg.
10.2307/3242590|The lectotype of Porotrichum cobanense C. M. is established. Description and illustration of the type are presented with taxonomic notes on the species.
10.2307/3241827|The stenotypic order Calobryales, with Haplomitrium (including Calobryum) and Takakia, includes ten species, all either very disjunct or endemic to small areas. Two additional species of Haplomitrium are described: H. chilensis, from southern coastal Chile, belongs to the H. gibbsiae complex, and H. ovalifolium, from Campbell Island, New Zealand, is related to H. hookeri and H. intermedium. H. ovalifolium is unique in Haplomitrium in its marked tendency to develop leaves bifid to the base, in this respect showing an approach to Takakia. The low chromosome number (of Takakia), the often-scattered sex organs, and the gradation from acrogyny to anacrogyny, collectively suggest a very low phylogenetic position for the order, although this does not imply that the Calobryales "led" to any other order of Hepaticae.
10.2307/3243689|At a single locality in the Organ Mountains of southern New Mexico, eight populations (i.e., contiguous clumps of uniform height and appearance) of the dioicous moss Tortula ruralis were marked and sampled approximately every 30 days over a 13-month period for reproductive condition, length of any new branches, and the total length of the shoot that was green. In addition, chlorophyll was extracted and chlorophyll a and b content determined. Significant differences were noted among populations for each of these measures, but the following general patterns were observed: 1a) A distinct annual cycle in growth and reproduction occurred; 1b) the main seasonal pattern of branching was sympodial, by innovation; 1c) new innovations first appeared in midwinter, lengthened slowly through the spring then rapidly in late summer, with growth completed by the winter following appearance; 1d) female gametangia were initiated in midwinter and terminated growth of the innovation on which they occurred; 1e) fresh female gametangia were observed over a 6- to 9-month period from December to June or August; 2) no male gametangia or sporophytes were observed; 3) the amount of green tissue and the total chlorophyll/dry weight ratio were higher in late summer and winter than in early summer; 4) chlorophyll a/b ratios did not vary on any regular annual pattern, in contrast to the situation known in mesic forest mosses; and 5) chlorophyll a/b ratios were relatively low (1.00-2.50 most commonly), as compared to those of tracheophytes.
10.2307/3243725| Cuticular papillae on the teeth of the leaves of North American plants of A. crispum (James) Sull. are shown in SEM micrographs for the first time. They are an important character for the identification of the species and an aid in distinguishing A. crispum from the closely related A. tenellum (Rhl.) B.S.G., which lacks papillae. A key and illustrations, together with habitat and distribution information, are presented to distinguish the two species. 
10.2307/3242910|Bryum knowltonii Barnes, known previously in North America only from northern Canadian stations, has been found in arctic-like tundra of the Mount Zirkel Wilderness in Colorado.
10.2307/3240518|The gametophyte of Hygrohypnum bestii is redescribed, and the sex organs and capsule are described for the first time. The species is dioicous and therefore not closely related to the autoicous H. molle which it resembles in some leaf characters. The inner perichaetial bracts differ from those of other American species of the genus in the strong midrib and in the broad bistratose regions of the lamina.
10.2307/3244550|Most species in the lichen family Umbilicariaceae accumulate the tridepside gyrophoric acid and its satellite depside lecanoric acid. For many years, the detection of chemical variation in these species was hampered by interference due to the generally high concentrations of gyrophoric acid accumulating in thalli. Recent investigations using high-performance liquid chromatography have shown that previous studies underestimated both the chemical variation and the correlations of chemistry with generic limits within the family. In the present study, an improved gradient high-performance liquid chromatographic method is combined with thin-layer chromatography to analyze representative specimens of 56 species. The known chemistry of the family is expanded, and problems in the identification of satellite compounds occurring with high concentrations of gyrophoric acid are reexamined.
10.2307/3243304|Bryoria abbreviata, B. oregana and B. subdivergens, all belonging to Bryoria sect. Subdivergentes, form a well-defined group distinct from other species of Bryoria and other genera of lichens, based on cell wall chemistry, cortical anatomy, and general morphology. These three species are recognized here as comprising the new genus Nodobryoria. Bryoria divergescens is excluded from sect. Subdivergentes and the new genus. Details of the ascus structure and dehiscence with reference to the structure and origin of an operculum-like "inner ascalflap" are presented.
10.2307/3241335|Eighteen phenotypic characteristics measured in specimens of Aloina, Aloinella, and Crossidium show a wide range of variation. At the generic level there is considerable overlapping of their absolute values which prevents the use of these characters as taxonomic features. Statistically, costa width, presence of a leaf hair, and leaf length are significantly different from one genus to another. Some characters of the sporophyte may be used to distinguish species or groups of species, but are generally irrelevant in characterizing genera.
3244166| The blepharoplast of Riccia gougetiana displays typical features of the subclass Marchantiidae. The spline reaches a maximum of 24 microtubules and has a closed aperture the equivalent of two microtubule diameters in width. The lamellar strip is longitudinally elongated and asymmetrically spatulate in shape, 1.96 m long and 0.74 m wide, the same as the overlying spline. The basal bodies are staggered in insertion, overlapping, and parallel with the spline over most of their lengths. The ABB, situated over the right side of the spline and 0.22 m from the anterior spline margin, measures 0.71 m in length including triplet extensions. The PBB is longer, at 1.16 m, and is situated over the left side of the spline, 0.59 m from the leading edge of the spline. The uniformity of blepharoplast features in the subclass Marchantiidae, and particularly within the Marchantiales, supports the concept of a monophyletic grouping. The overall similarity of the blepharoplast among those marchantialian genera studied in detail is striking and further supports the use of these features in studying the relationships among bryophytes. 
10.2307/3241471|Several common lichens and their isolated symbionts exhibited abnormal photosynthetic and respiratory rates after exposure to sulfur dioxide. Chlorophyll damage was not present in exposed phycobionts. Physiological evidence partially explains the great differences in lichen sensitivity which have been documented in urban areas.
10.2307/3241723|Trichogynes of Pilophorus strumaticus occur in large numbers at certain stages of the development of the fruiting bodies. They can be seen with a stereomicroscope. Observations with the SEM show several stages of the growth and degeneration of trichogynes.
10.2307/3243177|Cytological observations were made on seven species, i.e., Buxbaumia himalayensis Udar et al.-n = 9, Megalostylium brevisetum Doz. et Molk.-n = 14, Syrrhopodon gardneri (Hook.) Schwaegr.-n = 13, Racomitrium canescens (Hedw.) Brid.-n = 12(11 + m), Amblystegium tibetanum (Mitt.) Par.-n = 10, Stereophyllum fulvum (Harv.) Jaeg.-n = 20, and S. tavoyense (Hook.) Jaeg.n = 11, 22 (21 + m), 44. Megalostylium, Stereophyllum and the species Amblystegium tibetanum were investigated for the first time. The chromosome number n = 44 in S. tavoyense is the highest known for any pleurocarpous taxon.
10.2307/3241898|Fourteen new state lichen records and four reports of rare lichens are reported for California from the northernmost third of the state.
10.2307/3244177|A compilation of records of photobionts that are associated in lichens of the order Lecanorales shows that mycobionts, when seen at the levels of suborders, families, and genera, are strongly selective towards their photobionts. The recently proposed split of the genus Trebouxia into two genera, Asterochloris and Trebouxia, is reflected by the choice of mycobionts. While Asterochloris is mostly found in the suborder Cladoniineae, Trebouxia is mainly confined to the Lecanoriineae. The symbiosis with coccoid green algae other than Trebouxia or Asterochloris might indicate the basal position of a lichen family within Lecanorales. For instance, Dictyochloropsis and Coccomyxa are confined to the Lecanoralean families Biatoraceae (Lecanorineae), Megalosporaceae (cf. Teloschistineae), Peltigeraceae and Nephromataceae (Peltigerineae), and Catillariaceae (fam. inc. sed.). The most important cyanobacterial photobionts in Lecanorales are Nostoc and Seytonema as primary and accessory photobionts, while Gloeocapsa and Stigonema are more frequent as accessory photobionts in a few suborders and families of Lecanorales. The co-occurrence of cyanobacteria with Trentepohlia as a primary photobiont in lichen symbioses is not known from families of lichenized ascomycetes. This may reflect differences of ecological preferences of both photobiont groups and of the mycobiont groups that belong to different natural relationships. These examples show that the knowledge of photobionts is valuable information for systematics of lichens and therefore, exploration of photobiont diversity in lichens needs to be expanded.
3244658|Peatlands cover about 30% of northeastern Alberta and are ecosystems that are sensitive to nitrogen deposition. In polluted areas of the UK, high atmospheric N deposition (as a component of acid deposition) has been considered among the causes of Sphagnum decline in bogs (ombrogenous peatlands). In relatively unpolluted areas of western Canada and northern Sweden, short-term experimental studies have shown that Sphagnum responds quickly to nutrient loading, with uptake and retention of nitrogen and increased production. Here we examine the response of Sphagnum fuscum to enhanced nitrogen deposition generated during 34 years of oil sands mining through the determination of net primary production (NPP) and nitrogen concentrations in the upper peat column. We chose six continental bogs receiving differing atmospheric nitrogen loads (modeled using a CALPUFF 2D dispersion model). Sphagnum fuscum net primary production (NPP) at the high deposition site (Steepbank-mean of 600 g/m
10.2307/3241143|Hylocomium splendens (Hedw.) B.S.G. var. tenue Sharp, known from numerous localities in the mountains of Tennessee and North Carolina, is transferred to the genus Pterigynandrum, recognized as a species, and provided with a new name, P. sharpii, and a detailed description.
10.2307/3242675|In New Caledonia, three species of the genus Parisia are known: P. neo-caledonica, P. ciliata and P. laevipila, the latter two species were formerly in the genus Eucamptodon.
20061077|Lepraria toensbergiana Bayerov & Kukwa, a new lichen species from Europe is described. It is similar in morphology and ITS sequence to the widespread L. jackii Tnsberg, but different in chemistry. It contains atranorin and toensbergianic acid as major secondary metabolites. The distribution of the taxon is rather well defined, being found especially in mountain areas. A key to Lepraria species in Europe containing only fatty acids and atranorin is provided.
10.2307/3242247| Entodon schleicheri (Schimp.) Demeter is reported as new to North America. Three collections are known from Lincoln County, New Mexico. Descriptions, figures and a key are provided to separate it from E. cladorrhizans (Hedw.) C.Mll. 
10.2307/3241441|Mitotic chromosome numbers in 35 populations of mosses collected in Czecho-Slovakia, France, Hungary, and Spain are reported. No chromosome numbers have earlier been counted in mosses from Czecho-Slovakia and Spain. Chromosome numbers are published for the first time for the genera Pterogonium and Scorpiurium and for the species Pterogonium gracile (Hedw.) Sm. (n = 11), Homalothecium aureum (Spruce) Robins. (n = 10), Rhynchostegiella curviseta (Brid.) Limpr. (n = 11), Scleropodium touretii (Brid.) L. Koch (n = 11), Scorpiurium circinatum (Brid.) Fleisch. (n = 11), and Hypnum cupressiforme Hedw. var. lacunosum Brid. (n = 10). New chromosome numbers are given for Brachythecium glareosum (Spruce) B.S.G. (n = 9), Rhynchostegium megapolitanum (Bland.) B.S.G. (n = 11), and Plagiothecium sylvaticum (Brid.) B.S.G. (n = 10).
10.2307/3241420|Orthotrichum obtusifolium and O. pycnophyllum are reported as new to the Texas moss flora. New county records and a list of mosses from Burleson county are also included.
10.2307/3241390|Following the recognition by phanerogamic botanists of the remarkable correlation between the floras of North America and of East Asia, bryologists discovered a parallel phenomenon in mosses and hepatics. Many species of bryophytes are common to Japan and the Pacific Northwest of North America. Some species and many genera of mosses are common to Mexico and Japan. Many species of Alaskan bryophytes also occur in Japan, but members of the high-arctic floristic element have an Asiatic range at higher latitudes, in arctic Siberia. Several species have puzzling disjunct geographic ranges in western North America and in East Asia that do not match vascular plant distributions and that cannot be explained at present. The known distribution patterns of bryophytes in the hot springs of Iceland suggest that a comprehensive study of the bryophyte floras of hot springs in western North America and in Japan should be made.
10.2307/3240512|The new species Trematodon boasii is described from two localities on Vancouver Island. It seems to be most closely related to T. ambiguus (Hedw.) Hornsch.
10.2307/3240784|The shoot-sporophyte relationship, sporophyte structure, and sporeling pattern of the liverwort Bryopteris filicina were studied in serial sections. As has been recorded for other members of the Lejeuneaceae, the sporophyte of B. filicina develops entirely within the enlarged calyptra. The foot is simple and lacks a collar. The seta is articulate, and in transverse section is of Douin's "general type," a type which differs from that usually found in the Lejeuneaceae. The two-layered capsule wall has characteristic thickenings, the elaters are unispiral, and the spores are marked with distinct rosette patterns. Sporeling development from a globose protonema within the exospore is of the Frullania type.
23321024|A Syntrichia specimen collected from Longshoushan Mountain in northwestern China is described as a new species, namely S. rhizogemmascens. The new species is characterized by the spherical rhizoidal gemmae, obtuse and emarginate apex, plane leaf margins, a white hyaline and smooth hair point. The diagnostic characters are compared with those of most similar species. The distribution and habitat of the species is also discussed.
10.2307/3241777|Acromastigum gemmiferum is described as a new species from Sabah (North Borneo). The species is best characterized by septate rhizoids which are sometimes repeatedly forked, and filamentous gemmae composed of numerous, uniseriate cells. These characters are unique not only in the genus Acromastigum but also in the Hepaticae at large.
10.2307/3241613|This study concerns the Hookeriaceae of Central America, completing the Hookeriaceae series of North and Central America and the West Indies. Taxa not included previously in the Hookeriaceae monographic studies are described and illustrated. The keys include all the taxa observed from the countries of Central America. This paper treats 19 genera and 96 species. Of these, 2 genera and 44 species have not been included in previous publications in the series.
10.2307/3240493|The name Aspidelia Stirt. is invalid. The constituent species of this genus, A. beckettii Stirt. from New Zealand and A. wattii Stirt. from the Himalayas, are identified as Parmelia tenuirima Hook. & Tayl. and Cetraria sanguinea Schaer. respectively.
40732300|Bacidia punica is described from Eivissa (Spain). The species is also reported from several areas from the Mediterranean region. The new species could be mistaken for a member of the genus Bacidina, but differs in various characters such as thallus structure, exciple morphology, ascus type and morphology of paraphyses which all suggest an affinity with the genus Bacidia s. str.
10.2307/3241329|The circumscription of the moss genera Aloina, Aloinella, and Crossidium is made to supplement or modify current descriptions. Morphologically, Aloina is characterized by strongly infolded, partially bistratose leaves, an auriculate sheathing base, and the terminal cell of the filaments which has an apical thickening. Crossidium and Aloinella show a well developed central strand and photosynthetic filaments restricted to the stereid group of the costa. In Crossidium the costa extends into a mucro or long leaf hair and has a group of thin-walled cells between the stereid and guide cells. The leaves in Aloinella have a cucullate apex and the costa ends at or below it. Aloina apiculata (Bartr.) Delgadillo, Aloina roseae (Williams) Delgadillo, Aloina bifrons (De Not.) Delgadillo are new combinations, and Aloinella andina Delgadillo is proposed as a new species.
10.2307/3243592| Thirteen moss species were found on lava flows on Paricutn Volcano and 34 in the surrounding forest near Angahun. The latter is within the area of partial destruction by cinder. Through fifty years of primary succession, the number of moss species has not increased substantially, but they seem to occupy all major microhabitats on the lava flows; mosses observed on soil in the forested area had ample opportunity for reoccupation, while the epiphytic taxa may have survived in protected microhabitats. 
10.2307/3243679| The type and sole species of Henicodium (C. Mll.) Kindb., H. niam-niamiae (C. Mll.) Kindb., is synonymous with Leucodontopsis geniculata (Mitt.) Crum & Steere, but Henicodium is five years older than Leucodontopsis Ren. & Card. and thus replaces it at the generic level. The genus is moved from the Leucodontaceae to the Pterobryaceae. 
10.2307/3242629|Donnellia Aust. is synonymous with, but antedates and thus replaces, Meiotheciopsis Broth. The appropriate combinations are made. Donnellia commutata is reported from the Ocala National Forest in Florida and is the first United States collection since John Donnell Smith discovered it in 1877.
10.2307/3242444|A number of techniques were tried for disrupting lichen cells mechanically. The most effective was to pulverize acetone-washed thallus fragments in liquid nitrogen. For separation of lichen proteins, isoelectricfocussing on poly-acrylamide gels was found to be superior to electrophoresis. The proteins were visualized using Coumassie Brilliant Blue, and the isoelectric points of most were ca. 4.0-6.5.
20485803|Schistidum (sect. Atrofusca) viride is a new name for Grimmia latifolia Brid., hom. illeg. It is considered closely related to S. crassipilum. Schistidium viride is endemic to and widely distributed in eastern North America. It is an especially common Schistidium species in areas with calcareous rock.
10.2307/3243915| Loxotis Buck is predated by Loxotis R. Brown ex Bentham. Toloxis is offered as a replacement name. Toloxis imponderosa (Tayl.) Buck, T. semitorta (C. Mll.) Buck, and T. borchgrevinkii (Kiaer ex C. Mll.) Buck are new combinations. 
40732269|Hypogymnia magnifica X.L. Wei & McCune is described as a new species of lichenized fungi from high elevations in Yunnan and Sichuan Provinces in southwestern China. Previously lumped under H. taiwanalpina, H. magnifica is readily distinguished from that species by its large size (commonly to 30 cm or more diam.), broad, rather appressed lobes that are contiguous to subcontiguous, sparse perforations in the upper and lateral surfaces, whitish color in the field (when dry), and lacking 3-hydroxyphysodic acid. Hypogymnia magnifica and H. taiwanalpina appear to be allopatric, with the former restricted to southwestern China and the latter restricted to far-east Asia (Taiwan and Japan).
20061117|Treefall gaps are a ubiquitous feature of forested ecosystems and provide regeneration opportunities for many forest mosses which are dependent on microsites created by disturbance. Bryophyte communities on treefall mounds present an excellent opportunity to explore the extent to which community composition is influenced by dispersal patterns and establishment success. The goals of this paper are to 1) determine the bryophyte community structure of treefall mounds in the Adirondack forests and 2) to evaluate the extent to which community structure of treefall mounds is a consequence of dispersal limitation and establishment success and 3) to assess the role of microsite in successful establishment by sown spores and vegetative fragments. Bryophyte communities were described from field census of treefall mounds differing in age class. Most mounds support only 1-2 species, of the possible 13 species that colonize treefall mounds in the study area, the Adirondack Mountains of New York State. Moss species composition and diversity does not change with age of the mound, although cover increases significantly. Experimental treefall mounds varying in substrate and canopy type were created and sown with spores or vegetative fragments of five species: Polytrichum ohioense, Dicranella heteromalla, Atrichum angustatum, Diphyscium foliosum and Pogonatum pensylvanicum. The highest establishment success occurred with fragments sown on humus substrates in canopy gaps. Establishment success was significantly higher when propagules were sown than on the unsown controls. Colonization was very low in the absence of sown propagules. The data suggest that community composition of treefall mounds is strongly influenced by dispersal limitation.
10.2307/3243350|Haplomitrium minutum (E. Campb.) Engel & Schust. comb. nov. is treated as a valid species. The species is known only from artificial sites in New Zealand and is allied to Haplomitrium hookeri (Sm.) Nees. Steereomitrium is shown to exactly match Haplomitrium and is placed into synonymy of the latter.
41289753|River banks are home to unusual, morphologically highly specialized bryophyte taxa, which have been little studied. Here we describe a novel rheophilous and epiphyllous liverwort from Ecuador, Cololejeunea stotleriana, with many unusual morphological features such as robust stem, flat, triangular lobules, large rhizoids fields that are not produced near the base of each leaf, superfertility and clustered gynoecia. Because of its puzzling morphology, we used two regions of the chloroplast genome (trnK-H, trnL-F) to explore the systematic affinity of this new species. It turned out to be the second member of the subgenus Chlorolejeunea and the first record of this Asiatic subgenus from the New World. The species was found growing associated with the rare mosses Fissidens hydropogon and Lepidopilum caviusculum, both only known from their type specimens collected 150 years ago. The unusual morphological traits of Cololejeunea stotleriana are interpreted as adaptations to the harsh rheophilous and epiphyllous environment. The deviating morphology of the new species indicates that extreme morphological transformations can obscure the phylogenetic signal present in morphological data.
10.2307/3243138|The moss flora of Oregon presently includes 441 taxa, based on herbarium records and literature reports.
10.2307/3243711| New records from a bryophyte survey of the arid gypsum soils of southeastern Spain include two mosses new to the Iberian Peninsula: Gymnostomum mosis (Lor.) Jur. & Milde and Tortula caninervis (Mitt.) Broth. subsp. spuria (Amann) W. Kramer var. spuria. Two species are reported new from southeastern Spain: Fossombronia mitteni Tindall and Ceratodon conicus (Hampe ex C. Mll.) Lindb. Phascum cuynetii Biz. & Pierr. is rediscovered. 
10.2307/3243914| Orthostichella C. Mll. is resurrected to accommodate those species placed in Pilotrichella (C. Mll.) Besch. that are of small stature with nonauriculate leaves, scant alar development, short setae, and papillose exostome teeth. Recently Pseudopilotrichum Buck & Allen was used for this group of species, but Orthostichella has priority. The following new combinations are proposed: Orthostichella hexasticha (Schwaegr.) Buck, O. pentasticha (Brid.) Buck, O. pandurifolia (C. Mll.) Buck, and O. turgidellacea (C. Mll. ex Dusn) Buck. 
10.2307/3241477|Desmatodon fisherae is described as a new species from Virginia. It differs from D. porteri Lesq. ex James most importantly by long-apiculate leaves with excurrent costa and very well-marked border.
10.2307/3242670|Bryophyte communities were compared from three stream valleys in Mingo County, West Virginia. The stream valleys were typical of three stages of succession: that undisturbed by human activities, that disturbed by ongoing strip-mining, and that of recovered abandoned mine land. Heterogeneity and equitability indices indicated that the recovering abandoned mine land had the highest species diversity of the three stream valleys. The area disturbed by ongoing strip-mining had the lowest species diversity. Heterogeneity was found to be regulated by variation in species richness rather than by variation in relative abundance or evenness. Of the indices used, species richness and equitability were found to evaluate more accurately than species diversity. High bryophyte species diversity was found on strip-mined and filled areas that had been prepared for revegetation. Of all species of bryophytes encountered in the study, Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid. appeared to have the highest potential for the reclamation of mined land. This moss seemed to thrive as a pioneer on dry disturbed spoils, especially in open areas. The results from the investigation suggest that bryophytes should be included in the revegetation plan.
43188823|The group of Leptogium species with spherical-celled hairs (i.e., sect Mallotium) is revised and identification keys for fertile and sterile specimens are provided based on morphological and anatomical characteristics. Apothecial tissues are important in species differentiation and are related to the type of columnar hyphae of the thallus. Mallotium species can be readily differentiated by the surface morphology, architecture of the hairs, the type and distribution of isidia and lobules, the columnar hyphae, and features of apothecial tissues. The thallus of L. inflexum lacks marginal lacinulae, but was retained in synonymy with L. burgessii whereas L. ethiopicum was distinguished from L. burgessii. Leptogium nylanderi is a new name for L. inflexum var. isidiosulum. The new species L. mantiqueirense is described from southeastern Brazil.
10.2307/3242937|Syrrhopodon prolifer var. papillosus (C. Muell.) Reese, a variety widely distributed in the American tropics, is reported for the first time from Alabama.
10.2307/3241084|Parmelia almquistii, previously known in Siberia only from the east arctic has been found there in the west arctic too. It is widespread in Alaska and arctic Canada and is even locally common there. It is closely related to P. alpicola and has been mistaken for it but the two species differ both morphologically and chemically.
20110907|Descriptions and a key for identification are provided for the North American representatives of the foliose lichen genus Anaptychia (Physciaceae). Five species are accepted for the North American mycota, and a sixth species presently in the North American checklist, A. isidiata, is excluded, since its single report was based on a misidentification. Anaptychia crinalis is shown to be the correct name for the North American taxon presently referred to as A. setifera. Variolaric acid is reported from the genus for the first time.
10.2307/3243645|Twenty species of Caloplaca occur on seashore rocks in North America. Twelve of these have been studied taxonomically in previous papers, and the remaining eight are included in this study. Four of the eight species are new to science: C. ignea, C. impolita, C. inconspecta, and C. ludificans. All four species seems to be endemic to western North America. Caloplaca ignea and C. impolita are members of section Gasparrinia, while C. inconspecta and C. ludificans belong to section Caloplaca. The other four species-C. alcarum Poelt, C. brattiae W. A. Weber, C. coralloides (Tuck.) Hult., and C. litoricola Brodo-have been poorly known in some respects. Knowledge about C. alcarum in continental North America is still very poor since only very scanty material is available.
3244921|The new species, Schaereria porpidioides, is described from collections made by H. A. Imshaug & R. C. Harris from the Falkland Islands in 1968. The systematic position of Schaereria, with respect to its relationship to Trapelia, is discussed.
3244821|We revised the original material of the invalidly published names Pyrenotrichum 'atrocyaneum', P. 'mirum', and P. 'podosphaera' R. Sant. Pyrenotrichum 'atrocyaneum' represents the campylidia of the recently described Kantvilasia hians, while P. 'mirum' corresponds to the campylidia of 'Lopadium' tayabasense, a species that externally resembles Calopadia, but differs in the ellipsoid, non-septate conidia and the richly branched and anastomosing paraphyses. The new genus Calopadiopsis is established to accomodate this taxon. Pyrenotrichum 'podosphaera' represents a genuine Sporopodium, externally resembling the pantropical, well known S. phyllocharis and S. xantholeucum, but featuring unique, 1-septate conidia. This taxon is here formally introduced as a new species, S. podosphaera. Diagnostic features of all lecanoralean taxa producing campylidia are summarized.
10.2307/3242863|Splachnobryum limbatum sp. nov. from San Cristobal, Solomon Islands, is described and illustrated. The well-defined margin of elongate cells is unique within the genus. The pattern of rhizoid insertion is utilized for this and other members of the genus to confirm the appropriate placement in the Pottiaceae.
10.2307/3242595|Reported from Africa (mostly from Tanzania) are 31 species of hepatics and 74 of mosses. Collected for the first time in Tanzania are: Plagiochasma appendiculatum, Dicranella kenyae, Cinclidotus fontinaloides, Mniobryum pergracile, Breutelia muhawurensis, Fabronia cf. guenzii, F. leikipiae, and Sematophyllum cf. plagiothecioides; Angola: Leucobryum cucullatum var. rutenbergii, Barbula lambarenensis, Hyophila cf. crenulata, and Sematophyllum subpinnatum; Zambia: Sematophyllum elgonense; and Kenya: Regmatodon secundus. In Tanzania, Lepidozia personii var. lacerata, Porella triquetra, Cololejeunea minutissima, Targionia hypophylla, Plagiochasma eximium, Dumortiera hirsuta, Fissidens subexasperatus, Trematodon victoriae, Brachymenium philonotula, Schoenobryum robustum, Floribundaria patentissima, Pinnatella flagellacea, Fabronia goetzei, F. longipila, Regmatodon secundus, Rhynchostegiella holstii, Sematophyllum cf. sinuosulum, Ectropothecium sericeum, and Hypnum cf. aduncoides are reported the first time for the Arusha National Park. New reports for the Kilimanjaro area include: Lepidozia stuhlmannii, Cololejeunea mocambiquensis, C. pusilla, Cyathodium africanum, Sphagnum ceylonicum, Fissidens marginatus, Streptopogon erythrodontus var. rutenbergii, Fabronia abyssinica, and Trichostelum jonesii; and from the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Pterogonium gracile and Squamidium biforme are listed for the first time. General patterns of distribution are discussed.
10.2307/3241417|Parmelia sinuosa, a common lichen of the Pacific Northwest, is reported from several high mountains in North Carolina and Tennessee. Parmelia incurva-reported from Grandfather Mountain, Avery County, North Carolina-was not previously known in North America south of the White Mountains of New Hampshire.
10.2307/3242714|Usnea lecanorica (Ascomycotina, Usneaceae), a new species of the U. florida group from south-central Mexico, differs from all other known species of its genus by producing lecanoric acid as the major medullary constituent.
3244682|The nomenclatural consequences of a phylogenetic study of the Plagiotheciaceae are presented. Bardunovia Ignatov & Ochyra is synonymized with Platydictya Berk. The species that was called Herzogiella adscendens (Lindb.) Z. Iwats. & W. B. Schofield (Stereodon adscendens Lindb., Campylium adscendens (Lindb.) Mitt.) in the recent literature is transferred to Hypnum Hedw., as H. adscendens (Lindb.) Jaeg. An understanding of the exact relationships of the latter will have to await a generic revision of Hypnum.
10.2307/3243247|Syrrhopodon brasiliensis Reese is described as a new species based on three specimens from southern Brazil.
3244592|Substrate preferences of 87 taxa in Calymperes, Mitthyridium, and Syrrhopodon (Calymperaceae), as determined from label data on herbarium specimens, vary at the generic level as well as among the specific and subspecific taxa. The bark of trees and lianas is the most preferred substrate. Mitthyridium is most constant to the bark substrate, followed by Calymperes and then Syrrhopodon. Nineteen taxa of Syrrhopodon (38% of the 50 taxa studied), 14 taxa of Calymperes (50% of the 28 taxa studied), and six taxa of Mitthyridium (67% of the nine taxa studied), were 50 percent or more constant to bark; this trend reflects the presumed direction of evolutionary specialization of the genera. Preference for other substrates varies according to genus: rock is the second most common substrate for Calymperes, and dead wood is second for Mitthyridium and Syrrhopodon. The tree base habitat is also of importance for the three genera. Soil as a substrate is of least importance for Mitthyridium (a sample of one taxon collected on soil), intermediate for Calymperes (samples of 10 taxa: 36% of the 28 taxa), and of greater importance for Syrrhopodon (samples of 30 taxa: 60% of the 50 taxa).
41289790|Studies of herbarium samples and field surveys in Southern California during the fall of 2008 led to the discovery of several new collections of mosses lacking exostome teeth belonging to Orthotrichum Hedw. subgenus Pulchella (Schimp.) Vitt. Some of them are ascribable to O. anodon F. Lara, Garilleti & Mazimpaka even though they display a set of characters not noticed before, considerably broadening the morphological variability of this species and making necessary an updated description. Other materials, from scattered localities along a wide latitudinal range, correspond to a here described new species, Orthotrichum mazimpakanum Garilleti & F. Lara, differentiated by a set of unambiguous characters, including almost smooth, hyaline endostomial segments and partially bistratose leaves. Both mosses are illustrated with SEM and LM photographs, and their similarities and differences are discussed.
10.2307/3243804|The occurrence of Splachnum pennsylvanicum (Brid.) Grout ex Crum in Canada is confirmed, based on a recent collection from New Brunswick and several previously overlooked or misidentified specimens from Newfoundland and Nova Scotia. Earlier reports of S. pennsylvanicum for Canada could not be substantiated. In five of the six specimens seen, S. pennsylvanicum was growing together with S. ampullaceum Hedw. Three of the specimens were on dung of introduced livestock, three on what was probably moose dung.
10.2307/3242401|Chlorophyll a/b ratios were determined for 11 species of mosses from various habitats in the Piedmont of North Carolina. All mean ratios were less than or equal to 2.1, considerably smaller than values for most vascular plants. Most of the mosses were growing in low-light environments. The low chlorophyll a/b ratios suggest that these mosses are well suited to such environments.
10.2307/3241971|Twenty-one species of mosses are reported from the Obudu Cattle Ranch. Of these, 14 are new to Nigeria. Brachymenium philonotula (Hampe) Broth., Pogonatum theriotii Demar. & Leroy, Mittenothannium overlaetii Ther. & Nav. Rhaphidorrynchium lamprosericeum (Ren. & Card.) Broth., Levierella serrata P. de laVarde et Leroy and Acanthocladium trichocoleoides (C.Muell.) Broth. are added to the checklist of West African mosses.
10.2307/3242849|The structural distinction of the dorsal and ventral sides of the Metzgerian thallus is relatively minor. Both the weak dorsiventrality of the Metzgerian thallus and the presumed phylogeny of the Metzgeriaceae suggest a relatively recent acquisition of its prostrate structure through gradual prostration of the evolutionary progenitor, which was probably erect, pinnately branched, with a bilateral lamina, and produced long sexual and vegetative shoots on both sides of the stem. The present reduced condition of the female involucre and male branch, and their occurrence on the ventral side of the prostrate thallus is an evolutionary adaptation for protection and water retention of the archegonia and antheridia.
10.2307/3243678|Twelve nomenclatural alterations are proposed in connection with a revision of the checklist of the mosses of North America.
10.2307/3243093|Presently only about half of the species of the genus Riccia are well known, but the available data can be used to propose a phylogenetic classification. The following are discussed: The origin of Riccias by the late Paleozoic Era or the Triassic Period of the Mesozoic Era, the possible life conditions from the arid Mesozoic to the present, the interpretation as primitive of those general characteristics common to all species, the interpretation of unique features as adaptive or evolutionarily advanced and the phylogenetic interpretation of spore morphology and micromorphology. Spores retained in tetrads are considered archaic to dissociated spores. Spore surface ornamentation is indicative of the degree of evolution. Chemical, cytological and ontogenetic peculiarities are insufficiently known to aid in phylogenetic determinations. Certain taxa are more significant than others as evolutionary indicators: R. caroliniana, an archaic species, a kind of "living fossil"; R. membranacea with small, verrucose, spherical spores; R. perssonii with echinulate, undivided spores and Riccia sect. Pilifer, a recent taxon as shown by geographic distribution. A scheme is provided in an attempt to indicate the hypothetical phylogenetic relationships among species groups.
10.2307/3241566| Syrrhopodon quintasii Broth., (Musci: Calymperaceae), originally described from So Tom, Africa, is reported from Mexico, Colombia, Trinidad, Bolivia, and Brazil. Syrrhopodon ciliolatus Herz., described from Bolivia, is a synonym. 
20485758|The crustose Roccellaceae, excluding Opegrapha, on the Galapagos Islands were investigated. In total, 24 species were identified, most of which are new records not only for the archipelago, but also for Ecuador. These include Schismatomma spierii, which is described as new to science. Lecanographa laingiana is reported for the first time from the New World and Bactrospora denticulata, Dirina catalinariae, Lecanographa hypothallina, L. illecebrosula, Sclerophyton murex and S. vertex are first records from the Southern Hemisphere. Previous records of Roccellina from the Galapagos are regarded as erroneous. A key to the species is provided.
10.2307/3242081| A survey of the literature in which species of Musci are reported for Colombia, amplified by unpublished identifications of recent collections, indicates a known flora of 750 species. About 600 published names are treated as synonyms. An annotated list of the collectors is also provided, as well as notes on critical localities and itineraries, especially those of Purdie, Lindig and Wallis. Moss collections of Moritz, Wagner and Osculati are not from Colombia. Two new combinations are proposed: Campylopus pittieri Williams var. congestum (Thr.) comb. nov. and C. pittieri var. latilimbatum (Thr.) comb. nov. 
10.2307/3244251| A new epiphytic moss, Orthotrichum handiense F. Lara, Garilleti, & Mazimpaka, is described from the Janda Peninsula (Fuerteventura, Canary Islands, Spain). The new species is included in section Pulchella Vent. and characterized by robustness, lanceolate leaves with recurved margins, immersed capsules, stomata cryptopore located in the neck, well developed prostome, peristome of 16 teeth and 16 segments, and calyptra and vaginula densely covered with slightly papillose hairs. Drawings and SEM micrographs of the main characters are given, and possible confusion with other taxa is discussed. 
10.2307/3243749|A Southern Appalachian population of the Cladonia chlorophaea complex from Mt. Rogers, Virginia, containing individuals of four sympatric chemotypes, shows extensive variation in ribosomal DNA (rDNA). Variation was detected by 1) Southern hybridization of total genomic DNA with an rDNA probe; and 2) restriction-site digests of a variable region of the rDNA gene amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). At least 24 restriction-fragment patterns were identified that produced PCR products of four lengths and nine restriction-fragment patterns. Three of the chemotypes, each represented by more than one individual, had multiple rDNA restriction-fragment patterns, and two patterns were shared among chemotypes. The large number of restriction-fragment patterns suggests that some are polymorphic within interbreeding groups, and the sharing of patterns among chemotypes suggests that some chemotypes may be polymorphisms of a single species.
10.2307/3240808|In a survey of the corticolous cryptogams in 11 coastal spruce-fir stands in Maine, the epiphytes on Picea in seven or more of the stands included Haematomma ochrophaeum, Frullania asagrayana, Lopadium pezizoideum, Parmelia enteromorpha, P. physodes, P. saxatilis, and Usnea dasypoga.
25614898|Platyhypnidium pringlei [ Eurhynchium pringlei] is an uncommon, montane species of aquatic Brachytheciaceae occurring across central Mexico and in Guatemala. A morphologically distinct form of this moss is found disjunctively in some sheltered coves of the Blue Ridge Mountains in the southeastern United States. Both of these forms are sterile. A similar but more robust female plant is known from Arizona and California. In Himalayan India fertile forms of P. pringlei exist. These are apparently dioicous and have sporophytes with rostrate opercula and weakly roughened setae. Here we describe the sporophytes of P. pringlei for the first time and we discuss the variation, distribution and ecology of the species. Morphologically the several forms of P. pringlei intergrade, but in North America they appear to be geographically isolated. We tested the monophyly of Platyhypnidium using nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) data from 47 collections of Brachytheciaceae. Although most of Platyhypnidium is an artificial segregate of the terrestrial genus Rhynchostegium, P. pringlei has its affinities with Oxyrrhynchium hians [ Eurhynchium hians]. Two other closely related aquatic species are E. selaginellifolium from Hawaii and Donrichardsia macroneuron from Texas, and at least one more aquatic relative is known from China. Based on morphological and molecular congruence between these aquatic mosses and terrestrial species of Oxyrrhynchium like O. hians, O. speciosum and O. savatieri, the new combinations O. pringlei, O. selaginellifolium and O. macroneuron are made. Morphologically these aquatic species are characterized by a dark green color, infrequent branching, a loose foliation, a homomallous leaf arrangement, short laminal cells and long costae.
10.2307/3240830|Forty-two circular bark plugs 4.8 cm in diameter were cut from country roadside trees bearing 19 species of lichens and mosses. The plugs were transplanted in the summer of 1964 onto trees in Sudbury, Ontario, where the atmosphere is heavily polluted by sulfur dioxide. In October of 1965 most of the transplanted lichens and mosses were dead or greatly damaged. The lichens Bacidia chlorococca and Parmelia sulcata were the species most tolerant of the contaminated atmosphere.
20110836|The influence of increased copper and cadmium concentrations on membrane lipid peroxidation and photosynthetic characteristics of the lichen photobiont Trebouxia erici was assessed. Intracellular copper and cadmium uptake increased due to increased metal availability in the 5 mM HEPES buffer for 24 h. Assimilation pigments, chlorophyll a fluorescence, malondialdehyde (MDA) content and photosynthetic oxygen evolution rate (OER) were sensitive to the presence of redox-reactive metal
20110795|Pylaisiopsis (Broth.) Broth. is revised based on the molecular phylogenetic analysis and detailed morphological investigation. The genus is considered to be synonymous with Pylaisia (Hypnaceae). An older combination, Pylaisia speciosa (Mitt.) Wilson ex A. Jaeger, is selected for Pylaisiopsis speciosa (Mitt.) Broth. A description and illustrations of the species are provided. The taxonomic position of Foreauella orthothecia (Schwgr.) Dixon & P. de la Varde is also discussed.
10.2307/3243789| Syrrhopodon stonae Reese, described from Australia, is reported new to Malaysia, from Pahang. The status of Mitthyridium subluteum (C. Mll.) Nowak as a distinct species is affirmed, and its sporophytes are described for the first time. Mitthyridium papuanum (Broth.) Robins, is recognized as a distinct species and is reported new to Malaysia, from Pahang. The status of Syrrhopodon laevis (Dix.) Mohamed & Reese as a distinct species is reaffirmed. 
10.2307/3240495|One hundred twenty-three taxa are reported from Orleans County in west-central New York. This is the first report of bryophytes from this county.
20061074|Polysaccharides of foliose thalli of Pseudocyphellaria clathrata (De Not.) Malme, a fungus lichenized with a green photobiont, were extracted and chemically characterized. The thalli were successively extracted with water and 2% aqueous KOH, at 100C. After neutralization, the solution was subjected to freeze-thawing and Fehling treatment of the supernatant precipitated a structurally complex galactoglucomannan (GGM) that was identical to a similar fraction obtained from Pseudocyphellaria aurata (Ach.) Vainio, a fungus lichenized by the green alga Dictyochloropsis symbiotica. Isolated from the supernatant of the Fehling precipitation, was an arabinogalactomannoglucan (AGMG) that contained arabinose, galactose, mannose, and glucose in a 12:34:40:14 molar ratio. Methylation analysis showed 18 different structures, the principal being nonreducing galactofuranosyl end-units (25%) with the main chain composed by (13)-linked -glucopyranosyl units, as seen by controlled Smith degradation.
3244844| Re-examination of the voucher collections upon which the records of Racomitrium aciculare (Hedw.) Brid. in China have been based revealed that they actually represent epilose ecads of R. japonicum Dozy & Molk., characterized by elliptic leaves with broadly rounded, obtuse or minutely apiculate apices. Accordingly, R. aciculare is excluded from the bryoflora of mainland Asia. The occurrence of R. aciculare in South Africa is also commented on and it is shown that this record is the result of misinterpretation of the type material of Grimmia pseudoacicularis Mll. Hal. and is actually conspecific with Racomitrium lamprocarpum (Mll. Hal.) A. Jaeger, not R. aciculare. 
41289808|Eight primarily saxicolous Usnea subgenus Usnea species are reported from Argentina and Uruguay: U. amblyoclada (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr. (syn. nov. U. pinnata Rsnen), U. densirostra Motyka, U durietzii Motyka (syn. nov. U. caespitia Motyka), U. exigua J. M. Rodr. & P. Clerc sp. nov., U. fastuosa (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr., U. hieronymii Kremp. (syn. nov. U. hieronymii var. adusta Kremp.), U. lutii J. M. Rodr. & P. Clerc sp. nov. and Usnea saxidilatata J. M. Rodr. & P. Clerc sp. nov. are described with morphological, anatomical and chemical data. Their taxonomy and distribution are discussed. A key to the saxicolous species, including those occurring secondarily on rocks (i.e., U. columbiana Motyka, U. comuta Krb., U dasaea Stirt. and U. cf. perhispidella J. Steiner) is provided.
20110834|The lichens of Tetlin National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) and adjacent lands were collected and recorded at sites selected to represent the range of environmental variation. One hundred ninety-two taxa of lichens are reported from an area where few previous collections have been recorded. Six species are new to Alaska-Aspicilia arctica, Caloplaca arenaria, C. xanthostigmoidea, Endocarpon pusillum, Ramalina intermedia and Rhizocarpon cinereovirens. To provide a comparative phytogeographic framework for Tetlin NWR, we analyzed data from published reports and categorized lichen distribution patterns from a circumpolar perspective. Wide-ranging arctic-alpine and boreal species dominate the lichen flora, while amphi-Beringian species form a minor element.
10.2307/3243585|The midstage spermatid of Monoclea gottschei subsp. elongata displays typical features of the subclass Marchantiidae. The multilayered structure (MLS) is four-layered (S
10.2307/3243180| Gemmae of Tritomaria (Saccobasis) polita (Nees) Schiffn. have been observed on plants from Norway collected 1980. These gemmae differ considerably in form and color from what has been described by various authors, all of whom base their descriptions on those of var. acuta Kaalaas. The fact that this variety was referred to T. scitula by Mller has been overlooked; this explains the difference between the morphology of the gemmae observed and the description of the gemmae by Kaalaas and others. 
10.2307/3244088| Six species of the lichen genus Strigula are reported from New Zealand: S. delicata Srus. sp. nov. S. fossulicola P. M. McCarthy et al., S. nemathora Mont., S. novae-zelandiae (Nag Raj) Srus. comb. nov. (Basionym: Discosiella novae-zelandiae Nag Raj), S. oceanica P. M. McCarthy et al., and S. subtilissima (Fe) Mll. Arg. 
20061137|Revision of two collections of Gomphillus from Papua New Guinea and Chile, previously identified as Gomphillus ophiosporus and G. calycioides, respectively, revealed that these represent an undescribed species, G. morchelloides Lcking & Srus. The new species is characterized by short-stipitate, apically much broadened, cerebriform to morchelloid apothecia and ascospores intermediate between those of G. ophiosporus and G. calycioides.
10.2307/3240946|Sporophytes were observed originating laterally on the axes of gametophytes in some drying, 12-week-old, aseptic cultures of Funaria hygrometrica. When transferred to fresh medium, the gametophytes produced new shoots which bore additional sporophytes. These sporophytes were green, mostly club-shaped, with a prominent apical beak, and lacked the differentiation of archesporial layer.
10.2307/3242642|The saxicolous foliose lichen Pseudoparmelia baltimorensis (Gyelnik) Hale from a site in Maryland heavily polluted by atmospheric lead accumulates about half of its lead burden in newly formed thallus tissues in the first growing season. Two- and three-year-old tissues contain the highest lead concentrations, suggesting that an equilibrium with the atmospheric lead input is reached very rapidly.
10.2307/3243306|In continental western Canada, 62% of the 110 species found in 96 peatlands occur in Sphagnum-dominated bogs and poor fens, whereas 71% occur in brown moss-dominated rich fens. Alpha (site) diversity is remarkably uniform over the bog-rich fen gradient. Gamma (landscape) diversity is highest in extreme-rich fens, which are the most variable of the five peat land types surveyed. Species richness at the site level is most highly correlated with habitat heterogeneity. Climatic factors are not as important; however, habitat heterogeneity (46%) and temperature (15%) together explain 61% of the variation. When the five peat land types are examined individually, species richness in poor fens increases with pH, in extreme-rich fens decreases with pH, and in peat plateaus, continental bogs, and moderate-rich fens remains relatively constant regardless of pH. Peat plateaus consistently have greater species richness than continental bogs due to limited carpet and pool habitat heterogeneity in the latter. Twenty-five percent of the species were found only once; these species are considered rare in the region. Sixty percent of these occurred only in extreme-rich fens. Habitat heterogeneity, plus pH or temperature in some peatland types, can be effectively used to predict site biodiversity.
10.2307/3243485|Crossidium seriatum Crum & Steere is reported new to Europe on a specimen from Spain. The species is illustrated and notes are given on its ecology and distribution.
10.2307/3244476|Two species of lichens, Vezdaea leprosa (P. James) Vezda and Steinia geophana (Nyl.) B. Stein are here reported as new for North America based on collections from Durham and Orange Counties, North Carolina (U.S.A.). Both species occur frequently in the area on zinc-contaminated soils below galvanized electricity pylons. The species were not found in areas between pylons, suggesting a central role for elevated substrate zinc levels in determining the local distribution of these species. This inference is consistent with the ecology of these species in Britain and Europe.
10.2307/3241526| Hypnella pilifera (Hook. & Wils.) Jaeg., Leucoloma subimmarginatum (C. Mll.) Jaeg., Rhynchostegium semiscabrum (Bartr.) Robins., and Sphagnum capillaceum (Weiss) Schrank var. tenerum (Sull. & Lesq. ex Sull.) Crum are new to the moss flora of Mexico; twelve new state records are also reported. 
10.2307/3241584| The distribution of 209 chemical substances among the 2,315 species of lichens that have been reported in a literature of approximately 1,000 papers is summarized. The information is used to assess the extent and the nature of chemical evolution in the lichen-forming fungi and to evaluate the present supraspecific (especially generic and familial) classifications of these plants. The order Lecanorales is the seat of most of the chemical variation, especially in the secondary natural products most useful in systematics, namely the substances formed by coupling of phenolic units such as the orcinol and -orcinol compounds. Most genera and families that are well defined morphologically and appear to represent natural taxa show highly uniform chemistries of several to many biogenetically related substances or sets of substances. Many genera with chemistries discordant for the families in which they are currently classified also seem to have affinities elsewhere from morphological information. In the lichen-forming fungi, which lack a fossil record, comparative phytochemistry is the most useful independent check that exists to evaluate the naturalness of systems of classification based upon morphology. 
10.2307/3241651|The foliose lichen Erioderma boreale Ahln., previously known only from central Scandinavia, is reported from one locality in southeastern Newfoundland. The species contains an unidentified lichen substance. Lichen mass spectra indicate that it may he a depsidone related to pannarin.
10.2307/3242531|Continuous water saturation in Hypogymnia physodes (L.) W. Wats. leads to an increase in the concentration of atranorin. This is taken as an indication that lichen substances are metabolic by-products. Different illumination and SO
20110851|Revolutionary new concepts of bryophyte relationships have emerged from molecular phylogenetic analyses conducted since the onset of the 21st century. For example, sequence data contradict the historical notion that isophylly in leafy liverworts is plesiomorphic and that simple thalloid liverworts are monophyletic. Also contrary to traditional views are the concepts that Leiosporoceros is genetically distinct from other hornworts and that Oedipodium is sister to the peristomate mosses. Substantial increases in ultrastructural and anatomical data likewise have provided new insights on interrelationships. Because of this recent deluge in evolutionary studies on bryophytes, it is an opportune time to co-examine contemporary morphological knowledge and novel molecular hypotheses. An understanding of bryophyte evolution and biology is essential to identify structural innovations that accompanied early land colonization and to illuminate the evolution of more complicated body plans in tracheophytes. In this review, we examine the progress that has been made since the 1999 International Botanical Congress in clarifying the evolutionary history of the three groups of bryophytes. The state of our knowledge on interrelationships is discussed, with poorly-known, genetically divergent taxa illustrated for each group. Our review of bryophyte evolution includes a revaluation of the evolution of sperm cells, sporogenesis, stomata, symbioses, conducting cells and chloroplast ultrastructure in hornworts. We explore the prospects for future discoveries and advances with an emphasis on fundamental evolutionary problems that remain and the challenges that must be met to resolve them.
10.2307/3243441|A description of the South American monospecific taxon Lepolichen coccophorus is presented, together with details of its discovery, systematic position, ecology, and distribution in southern Chile.
10.2307/3243140|Twenty-five species of mosses and nine species of liverworts, mostly facultative epiphytes, were present on the bases of 140 saplings of six tree species in a cove forest. Epiphytic communities on saplings showed greater mutual similarity than did those on trees. Only one epiphytic species was restricted to one host species and only eight species showed strong single-host preferences. Most epiphytic communities on saplings were very dissimilar to those on mature trees of the same species. Epiphytic communities on oak, maple, beech, yellow birch, black birch, and hemlock saplings were most similar to epiphytic communities on mature black birches, while those on beech saplings were most similar to those on mature beeches. By comparing epiphytes on saplings and trees, successional trends could be inferred that led to the more sharply delimited host specificities of epiphytes on trees. These trends included: the persistence and expansion of some pioneer species, the disappearance of others, and the appearance of additional species that were not present on saplings; these additional species often showed strong host preferences and (especially on oak and maple) mesophytic growth-forms.
10.2307/3242445|Patterns of sexual and asexual reproduction were investigated in the lichen genus Parmotrema (Parmeliaceae). Most tropical species were found to produce either sexual or asexual reproductive structures, but not both. Temperate species were found to invest in mixed reproductive strategies. Mixed strategies may be selected for, not only because they maintain genetic variability, but also because they may facilitate lichenization in habitats in which suitable algal-host diversity is low. Correlations were also observed between spore size, production of asexual structures and production of perforate apothecia in fertile species of Parmotrema that suggested a conservation of reproductive tissue in species investing in large spores or asexual structures. Thus, there may be trade-offs involved in apportioning resources between growth, maintenance and reproduction in Parmotrema species from habitats that vary in environmental predictability.
20061076|The rare, North American, high plains moss, Molendoa ogalalensis (G. L. Smith) R. H. Zander, is newly recorded for stations in Sonora, Mexico.
10.2307/3244307|We document the occurrence of crustinic, hiascic, and ovoic acids in several Umbilicaria species in Spain. These substances were found in eleven species in different proportions within the lichen thallus by comparing TLC and HPLC results. Crustinic acid was a major substance in U. cinereorufescens and in 46% of the specimens of U. crustulosa analyzed, but was also present as a minor substance in 54% of U. crustulosa, in U. krempelhuberi, and in U. spodochroa. Hiascic acid was never a major component, but was found as a minor compound in U. deusta, U. havaasii, U. polyrrhiza, and U. torrefacta. It was also detected occasionally in U. decussata, U. proboscidea, and U. vellea. Ovoic acid, when present, was never a major component, but was found as a minor compound in U. havaasii, U. proboscidea, and U. torrefacta, as well as in some chemotypes of U. decussata and in some specimens of U. vellea. Chemical races were detected in U. crustulosa, U. decussata, U. spodochroa, and U. vellea.
10.2307/3241416|Fifty-one species of lichens and the genus Sporastatia are reported for the first time from Arizona.
43188712|This paper describes a fossil record from northeastern Poland of Sphagnum obtusum Warnst., a plant that has rarely been found in Holocene sediments. This species occurred circa 1710-1570 cal. BP on Mechacz Wielki peatland and was present in the transitional phase between a fen that developed on lake sediments and a bog. Sphagnum obtusum was a dominant species and was accompanied by such vascular plants such as Scheuchzeria palustris, Carex rostrata, Comarum palustre and Oxycoccus palustris. Using testate amoebae, we reconstructed the past habitat (water table and pH), with S. obtusum occurring in a moderately wet habitat (mean depth to the water table or DWT = 9.5, SD = 0.5) and under slightly acid conditions (mean pH = 5, SD = 0.1). A clear correlation was found between the distributions of the subfossil S. obtusum and those of the indicator testate amoebae Hyalosphenia paptlio and Cyclopyxis arcelloides. The disappearance of S. obtusum is assumed to have been caused by a trophic shift and succession of a more acidophilic species, Sphagnum angustifolium.
10.2307/3240588|Hedwigia ciliata (Hedw.) P. Beauv. is reported from the lower coastal plain of Alabama. It was previously known in the coastal plain of the lower southeastern United States only from isolated outcrops of sandstone conglomerate in Georgia and Florida.
10.2307/3241365|The known range of Buxbaumia minakatae Okam. is extended from the state of New York to the Southern Appalachian Mountains in western North Carolina.
3244744|Phenology is interpreted as the study of the timing of growth and reproductive events, and it underpins a great proportion of the field of reproductive ecology. Salient early works in bryophyte phenology provided broad-based compilations of important phenological characteristics for entire local bryofloras in Germany and European regions, including branching architecture, the timing of vegetative growth, gametangial initiation times, fertilization times, the duration of sporophyte development, and the time of spore liberation. Recent work in the field was incited by the formulation of a phenological classification system for mosses proposed by Stanley Greene and placed into context by Royce Longton. Phenology in the broad sense is seen to intersect the fields of stem architecture, growth rates, nutritional status, structural development, population dynamics, fertilization biology, fitness measures, the interplay between sexual and asexual reproduction, spore dispersal patterns, sex dimorphism, clinal variation, and desiccation tolerance, among others. The principal patterns of gametangial and sporophytic maturation are reviewed, and a "consensus system" for presenting phenological data is presented that combines the categories of maturation postulated by Greene, the functionality stressed by Forman, and the numerical basis refined by Longton. The field of phenology has a bright future inasmuch as the research continues to focus on individual species and seeks to branch out into the fertile disciplines of sex expression, sex ratios, and resource distribution. The most useful tool for the bryophyte phenologist in investigations of these disciplines may very well rest with allocational bryology.
10.2307/3241806|One species of Leskeella, L. nervosa, and 3 species of Pseudoleskeella, P. catenulata, P. tectorum, and P. papillosa, are reported from Greenland. The species are described and illustrated, and identification keys are provided. The known world distributions are mapped and compared with the Greenlandic distribution patterns. Bridel is shown to be the correct author for Pterigynandrum catenulatum and Hypnum tectorum. The new combination Pseudoleskeella tectorum (Brid.) Kindb. subsp. cyrtophylla (Kindb.) Lewinsky is made.
3244635|The current study is a revision of Leucoloma Brid. Subgenus Syncratodictyon Series Holomitrioidea (Ren.) La Farge-England that includes two new species-Leucoloma circinale La Farge sp. nov., endemic to Tanzania and Leucoloma marojeziense La Farge sp. nov., an endemic from the massif of Marojezy in northeastern Madagascar. The series includes four species that are characterized by having hyaline margins restricted to the lower portion of the leaf; differentiated, bulging, scalariform alar cells; strongly contorted, apiculate leaves; unusual biseriate papillae formation; and sharply differentiated, sinuose upper cells, with the basal cells extending up along the margins. The species are endemic to the lowland to elfin rainforests of Madagascar, East African Islands, and East African montane forests of central Tanzania. The phylogenetic and phytogeographic relationships of Series Holomitrioidea have been considered elsewhere (La Farge-England 1998).
10.2307/3241146| Bryum sandbergii Holz., of western North America, should be segregated as a monotypic genus Roellia Kindb. A detailed description and a distributional summary are given with the new combination Roellia roellii (Broth. ex Rll) Andrews ex Crum. Pohlia tozeri (Grev.) Delogne is transferred to Epipterygium and both genus and species are described in detail. 
10.2307/3244440|The mycobiont of the lichen Buellia stellulata as well as the lichenized fungus produced atranorin and norstictic acid on media containing a large amount of added sucrose or ethylene glycol, while either atranorin or norstictic acid was sometimes produced on media with added extra agar or sodium chloride. The lichen substance content was lower in mycobionts grown on media containing added non- metabolites than in media with added sucrose.
10.2307/3243049|Eighty-seven species and two varieties of mosses, and eight species and one variety of liverworts are listed from the Organ Mountains. The major vegetational zones for the mountains are characterized, and the list of bryophytes annotated accordingly. Sixteen mosses are reported as new to the state. Seventeen additional species and varieties are added to the state checklist from literature reports.
10.2307/3243156|Xanthoparmelia barbatica (Elix) Egan has been collected in Presidio County, Texas. Previously, this taxon was known only from southeastern Australia. The new combination Xanthoparmelia burmeisterii (Elix) Egan is made.
10.2307/3241391| A survey of the pertinent literature indicates that 213 species and seven varieties of mosses have been reported from Panam. 
41289757|Frullania is a large and taxonomically complex genus. Historically, Amphijubula, Neohattoria, Schusterella, and Steerea have either been recognized as distinct segregate genera, or, subgenera within Frullania. In contemporary Frullania systematics, Amphijubula has been classified at the subgenus level. Because of its aberrant morphology and nested position within F. subg. Microfrullania based on a prior molecular investigation of the genus, we lower this subgenus to a section as F. subg. Microfrullania sect. Amphijubula. Three taxa, including a new species from New Zealand described here, are currently ascribed to F. sect. Amphijubula. Detailed descriptions and photographs are provided for F. lobulata, F. microcaulis, and F. truncatistyla, as well as a determination key. The distinguishing features of F. sect. Amphijubula include the leaf lobes with acute or acuminate to apiculate apices and the distinctive lobule with a conspicuous projecting, angular cell, inserted directly above the lateral slit. Secondary character-sets that aid as supplementary sources of data for differentiation include the small plant size, and characters associated with the female bract, seta anatomy and elater number.
10.2307/3241018|The species called Glossadelphus andersonii Bartr. properly belongs to the genus Taxiphyllum and the appropriate new combination is made.
10.2307/3244501|Environmental effects on variation in leaf morphology, stem length, and leaf density of Andreaea blyttii are found to be statistically significant. This study is based on a numerical analysis of the morphological variation using principal components analysis (PCA). The results from this analysis were correlated with environmental parameters using generalized linear models (GLM) and generalized additive models (GAM) with a cubic smooth spline estimator. The magnitude of the morphological variation was large, and four specimens differed considerably from the others in their extremely broad leaves and relatively short limbs. This deviation in leaf shape is not correlated with any environmental variation, and may therefore be due to a rare genetic combination. Although there is lack of significant environmental difference, the morphological variation related to the main bulk of specimens shows a significant distribution along a complex moisture gradient composed of elevation, snow-persistence, shelter, slope, and aspect. With increased availability of moisture the leaves become longer, more curved, wider, with longer cells in the basal marginal region, wider costae, and longer stems, whereas the number of leaves per stem decreases. This increased relative growth is, however, not correlated with the frequency of occurrence along the moisture gradient. The lack of correlation is interpreted as a decrease in the probability of survival and/or establishment in areas of autumnal high water availability, although a higher degree of growth seems to be characteristic of such habitats. There was also a negative correlation of the above-mentioned morphological parameters with the calcium concentration in the supporting rock. Together with a reduced number of occurrences observed under such conditions, this indicates a strong avoidance of substrates with medium or high calcium-content. Although there is a significant relationship between the morphology and environment, there is considerable residual variation in the statistical models. Adjustments with geographical distribution as an estimate of large scale genetic differences reduced the residual variation somewhat, but it was still a considerable part of the model. This residual variation is interpreted as being caused either by generic differences on a spatially local scale or by a plastic morphological response to annual and inter-annual environmental history.
10.2307/3242648|Cynodontium gracilescens is excluded from North America in the most recent list of North American mosses by Crum, Steere and Anderson (1973) and in Crum and Anderson's Mosses of Eastern North America (1981). Several recent collections of the species from Colorado are herein documented, however, thus establishing it as an irrefutable member of the North American bryoflora.
10.2307/3240714| Fissidens brouardii Thr. and F. michoacanus Thr. are conspecific with P. leptopodus Card. The latter species is compared with F. garberi Lesq. & James to which it is closely related. 
20110960|A total of two varieties, two subspecies and 67 species distributed among 41 genera and 23 families of hepatics and hornworts are recorded for the department of Nario; 58 species, two subspecies and two varieties represent new additions. One species is newly recorded for Colombia: Calypogeia venezuelana. Eleven species and one subspecies are also recorded for the department of Putumayo, nine species and one subspecies representing new records.
10.2307/3242752|Sibling speciation, the reproductive isolation of populations often accompanied by ecological but little or no morphological differentiation, is a common product of evolution. Although it may be widespread among the cryptogams, it is best documented from all groups of the animals and from the vascular plants. The ecological and biological characteristics of the major chemotypes into which many Linnean species of lichens are divided favor the interpretation of these chemotypes as sibling species rather than as components of traditional morphological species. For the lichens, examples are given of sympatric sibling speciation effected by the isolating mechanisms of a sharply telescoped environment, the bark of different trees growing together, tree bark and nearby boulders and adjacent soils of different types. An experimental approach in the lichens for determining the extent of gene flow in morphologically similar populations of mixed chemotypes is proposed.
3244917|The frequencies of states of 86 characters in 439 pleurocarpous moss species from all over the world are compared across climatic zones, general habitats, and the gradient wetland versus non-wetland. Forty-four percent of the characters are influenced by climatic zone, 35% by general habitat, and 23% by the wetland vs. non-wetland gradient. Most of the differences in character state frequencies among environmental categories seem to relate to two complex functions: 1) water conduction and retention, as expressed by differences in frequencies of states of the characters stem central strand, leaf orientation, leaf costa type, alar cells, paraphyllia, pseudoparaphyllia, inner perichaetial leaf plications, vaginular paraphyses, operculum type, stomatal pore, and possibly seta length and 2) spore dispersal, expressed by variation in frequencies of character states related to capsule shape and orientation, annulus, exostome and endostome appearance, spore size and maturation time, and possibly seta length. Besides the influence of the phylogenetic history, water availability and exposure to wind are suggested to be the most important habitat factors explaining the differences among habitats found for these character complexes.
10.2307/3242164|The monotypic genus Penzigiella Fleisch. is reviewed. Penzigiella cordata (Hook.) Fleisch. occurs in India, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan, Burma and Thailand. A lectotype (Nepal, Wallich s.n. TCD) is designated. Descriptions, illustrations and a distribution map are provided in addition to remarks on bryogeography, morphology, nomenclature and taxonomy.
10.2307/3243428|Caloplaca rosei Hasse and C. marina (Wedd.) Zahlbr. both grow on seashore rocks and are widely distributed along the North American west coast. Caloplaca marina occurs in Europe as well, but not on the North American east coast. Due to their similarities to one another and the lack of correctly determined specimens in herbaria, the two species have been very much misunderstood in North America. The present study, based on my own material and on herbarium material, was carried out to clarify their relationship and to establish whether or not the North American populations of C. marina are conspecific with those in Europe. A large set of morphological and anatomical characters was studied and analyzed using a computer-assisted principal components analysis. The results show that C. rosei and C. marina, even though closely related, are well separated by morphological traits such as continuity, areolation, and surface of the thallus, together with the shape, disk, and thalline margin of the apothecia. Within C. marina two subgroups could be recognized, corresponding well with their disjunct distribution on the two continents. The American population is designated C. marina subsp. americana Arup, differing from subsp. marina mainly in ecology but also having narrower spores and spore septum and a thicker hymenium.
20110751|The 80th birthday of Daniel Moreira Vital, born on October 2, 1924, is celebrated by remembrances by Paulo Cmara, a former student, and William Buck and Ronald Pursell, colleagues. A short biographical sketch and a bibliography of Daniel Vital is provided.
10.2307/3244086|One new species, Lejeunea convexiloba, is described and figured. Lejeunea proliferans Herzog and L. patens Lindb. var. uncrenata K. C. Chang are treated as new synonyms of L. cocoes Mitt. and L. parva (Hatt.) Mizut., respectively. The former is figured in detail. Three species, Lejeunea konosensis Mizut., L. magohukui Mizut., and L. tuberculosa Steph., are reported from China for the first time and critical comments are provided.
10.2307/3243371|Five-hundred-twenty-three species and 23 varieties are accepted as occurring in New Zealand and its associated offshore islands. Full literature citations are provided for accepted taxa; homotypic and heterotypic synonyms are cited when these are based on New Zealand material or when the names have been applied to New Zealand material. Dicranum subg. Trichodontium Dix. is raised to generic rank, as Trichodontium (Dix.) Fife, gen. & stat. nov. The following new combinations or new names are included: Brachythecium allisonii Fife nom. nov. [for Brachythecium subpilosum var. angustifolium Allis.], Calyptrochaeta apiculata var. tasmanica (Broth.) Fife comb. & stat. nov., Dicranum plurisetum (Dix.) Fife comb, nov., Entosthodon subnudus var. subcuspidatus (Broth.) Fife comb. & stat. nov., Eurhynchium novae-zealandiae (Dix.) Fife comb. nov., Fissidens curvatus var. inclinabilis (Dix.) Beever in Fife comb. nov., Pseudocrossidium crinitum var. obscurum (Dix.) B. H. Macmillan & Fife in Fife comb. nov., Pyrrhobryum mnioides subsp. contortum (Hook, f. & Wils.) Fife comb. & stat. nov., Tortula areolata (Knight) Fife comb. nov., Trichodontium falcatum (R. Br. ter.) Fife comb. nov., and Weissia patula (Knight) Fife comb. nov.
10.2307/3241938| One hundred eighty-nine moss taxa including 181 species and 193 lichen taxa including 190 species are reported from the St. Elias-Kluane Ranges, southwestern Yukon (60-62 N, 137-141 W). Sixteen of the moss taxa and 74 of the lichen taxa represent new records for the Yukon. The list includes all literature reports as well as recent collections. 
10.2307/3242174|Fungal-algal contact in the lichen Chiodecton sanguineum (Sw.) Vain is limited to wall-to-wall contact. Crystals of lichen substances occur as deposits on the fungal cell walls. The alga has dictyosomes and the fungus has concentric bodies.
10.2307/3242583| The gemmae of Oedipodiella australis (Wag. & Dix.) Dix. are multicellular, lenticular diaspores (250-300 m in diameter) and are found at the apices of gametophores which may also produce gametangia. The gemmae form rhizoids and one or two gametophores without an intermediate protonemal phase. Gametophores are produced from centrally positioned apices on opposite sides of the gemmae. Both sides must receive light in order to initiate apical growth and development into gametophores. 
10.2307/3243947|Buck's (1984) treatment of Brotherella Loeske ex Fleisch. as a synonym of Pylaisiadelpha Card, is revised and the two genera are recognized here as taxonomically distinct. Brotherella [type: B. lorentiziana (Mol. ex Lor.) Loeske ex Fleisch.] differs from Pylaisiadelpha [type: P. rhaphidostegioides (Card.) Card.] in: 1) the larger plants often somewhat complanate (weakly or not complanate in Pylaisiadelpha); 2) usually weakly or nonfalcate leaves (weakly to strongly falcate in Pylaisiadelpha) with better-differentiated larger lowermost alar cells and fewer subquadrate cells above; 3) inclined to almost horizontal sporangia (usually erect in Pylaisiadelpha) with better-developed, perfect peristome; and 4) smooth or less papillose spores. The known species of Pylaisiadelpha include: P. drepanioides Card. & Dix. ex Card., P. duellii Crum, and P. tenuirostris (Bruch & Schimp. ex Sull.) Buck [syn. P. rhaphidostegioides (Card.) Card.]. The remainder of the species that Buck transferred to Pylaisiadelpha may be retained in Brotherella pending study of types.
10.2307/3241102|One hundred eighteen species in 29 genera of lichens are reported from 21 stations in ten counties in the major portion of the Valley and Ridge Province of Alabama.
10.2307/3242357|Sphagnum centrale C.Jens. reported as new to Illinois was from Volo Bog, Lake County. The Sphagnum was found as a mat at the base of a tamarack (Larix laricina). Volo Bog is located in northeastern Illinois about 22.5 km south of the Wisconsin border.
10.2307/3244500|Previous field experiments had revealed high between-replicate variability in the outcome of competition among bog inhabiting Sphagnum species. I performed an experiment to test whether competition is more consistent under controlled conditions. Carpets of 1) S. fuscum + S. balticum, 2) S. balticum + S. tenellum, and 3) all three species in approximately equal proportions were transferred from a bog into pots in a growth chamber. The outcome of competition was monitored by measuring the area covered by the different species at the start and after 8 and 14 months of growth. During the first 8 months S. balticum increased in all species combinations and in all replicates, while S. fuscum and S. tenellum decreased correspondingly. Thereafter, changes were smaller and more variable between replicates. On average, S. balticum decreased during this period. The results were less variable than in the field, but variability between replicates increased during the experimental period. Although S. balticum initially was a strong competitor, it was unable to outcompete the other species, and coexistence was maintained in all replicates.
3244918|The past two decades have seen rapid advances in diaspore (in particular seed) bank research, and conceptual and technological advances promise more in the near future. Studies on bryophytes may contribute significantly by helping to assess the scope of generalizations of seed bank studies, but bryophytes may also provide interesting perspectives of their own, due to their peculiar life history-e.g., consequences of self-fertilization in monoecious species and often complex life histories.
10.2307/3242192|North American specimens of the genus Alectoria s. lat. issued in exsiccatae are listed with their revised names.
10.2307/3243158|The rare arctic or montane mosses Oreas martiana and Tetraplodon paradoxus, previously unreported from the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, are reported from Baffin Island. Their distributions in North America and Fennoscandia are mapped.
3244689|Phylogenetic analyses of infraspecific molecular data in relation to geographic and ecological information has come to be known as phylogeography. Bryophytes offer fertile material for such analyses, which can help clarify long standing biogeographic questions that were intractable before molecular data became available. In particular, molecular data can help distinguish between dispersal and fragmentation explanations for disjunct distributions that characterize many bryophytes at the specific as well as higher levels. Phylodemography is the application of molecular data and phylogenetic analyses to infer past changes in population size within species. Grounded in coalescence theory from population genetics, this new field could be fruitfully applied to bryophytes. Combining phylogeography and phylodemography yields a powerful strategy for elucidating evolutionary processes.
20110838|Lepraria santamonicae K. Knudsen & Elix is described as a new species of lichenized fungi growing on soil and rock in southern California. It is characterized by the presence of the chlorinated -orcinol depsidones, argopsin and norargopsin.
10.2307/3241760|Physcomitrium delicatulum Crum & Anders., described from Mexico, is a new record for the moss flora of India based upon collections from Delhi and its suburbs. The sporophyte of this moss has a very small, unlobed, campanulate calyptra and a flat operculum which, with the rosette habit of the plant, give it the status of a distinct species.
20110904|We examined "moss" (mosses and liverworts) purchased from commercial harvesters at a regional buying shed and in potentially harvestable field sites to find out which species are impacted by the moss harvest trade in West Virginia. First, we found that 60% of mats from 15 commercial quality bags were gathered from rocks. Thuidium delicatulum comprised 65% of total cover, with 77% of the mats from rocks and 23% from logs. Hypnum species (mainly H. imponens and H. curvifolium) comprised 25% of total cover, with 59% from logs and 41% from rocks. Although most of the commercial quality bags were dominated by Thuidium or Hypnum, 73 other bryophytes of low commercial value were incidentally harvested. Thuidium was associated with more incidental bryophytes than Hypnum and these associates often indicated very mesic to aquatic habitats. Commercial quality bags differed in composition from bags culled by the buying shed for low quality. Five such culled bags included Anomodon attenuatus and Metzgeria conjugata and a large number of walking ferns (Asplenium rhizophyllum). Second, we conducted limited field sampling at four sites on or near the Monongahela National Forest to determine the composition of bryophyte communities vulnerable to harvest, including one site thought to have been recently commercially harvested for moss. Results of field studies, albeit preliminary, generally corroborated our bag studies with regard to the ecology of moss harvest (what species are harvested together and from what habitats) and with regard to the prevalence of patchy harvest from rocks. Nevertheless, it was clear that a much greater variety of habitats and/or a larger geographic area is impacted by moss harvest than was sampled, and that direct study of harvesting practices is needed. In addition to the large number of incidentally collected bryophytes, which species-area curves suggest are still not fully captured, many incidentally collected vascular plants and animals were observed in both the buying shed bags and field sampling. We present outstanding information needs and preliminary management recommendations for the Appalachian region.
10.2307/3241028|Seventy-three species of bryophytes and 57 species of lichens are reported from two localities near Boulder, Colorado in the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains.
23321035|Metzgeriaceae are a cosmopolitan family that is particularly diverse in the Neotropics. In Brazil, the species of Metzgeria Raddi preferentially inhabit the coastal ecosystem Atlantic Rain Forest (from northeastern to southern Brazil). For bryophytes, the IUCN distribution criteria are of critical importance to evaluate threat status. In this study, we propose the use of ecological niche modeling methods to estimate the extent of potential occurrence of five Metzgeria species. Herbarium collection data were used to estimate the potential distribution of the species based on the method MAXENT. Understanding the spatial distribution of species is essential for the conservation of biodiversity, and the use of potential distribution models in biogeographic analysis is an important tool for the conservation of rare or endangered species. Modeling the distribution of five Metzgeria species endemic and/or threatened reveals that the species are currently not known from several areas that are, however, predicted to provide suitable environments. From these areas of forest fragments, 52% are under environmental protection, which is very important for the conservation of these species typical of the Atlantic Rain Forest domain. When we intersect this information with future areas of environmental protection, proposed by the Ministry of Environment of Brazil in 2010, we observed that 93% of forest fragments will be protected.
10.2307/3242913|The influence of water quality and pH on net CO
20110906|Philonotis species are frequent and often dominant components of many wetland habitats. We modeled ecological optima of the four commonest Philonotis species in three regions of Europe, using measurements of pH, water conductivity, altitude and vegetation gradients. We did not observe obvious differences in ecological optima among three climatically and geographically different regions. Philonotis calcarea was well separated from other species along the water pH and conductivity gradient and occupied the most mineral-rich and alkaline springs in all cases. Philonotis seriata was at the other end of the mineral-richness gradient. The morphologically similar species, P. fontana and P. caespitosa, had very little differentiated niches with respect to water pH and conductivity, which differed slightly among regions. Whereas P. fontana occupied more alkaline and mineral-rich habitats than the rarely occurring P. caespitosa in the West Carpathians, the opposite situation was recorded in Mid-West Europe. In Bulgaria, these two species exhibited practically the same niches with respect to mineral richness. The ecological niche of P. fontana was wider in all regions when compared to P. caespitosa. Altitude represents a discriminating factor only for P. seriata, whereas other species exhibit very wide intervals of response to altitude. We concluded that species with clearly differentiated niches like P. seriata, P. fontana and P. calcarea are accurate indicators of the chemical parameters of spring waters. Alternatively, known water pH and conductivity can support or call into question the reliability of Philonotis determinations. The total species composition of vegetation can also have a certain predictive value for species occurrence.
43188718|An extinct moss species Musettes kujiensis is described based on a plant fragment preserved in Late Cretaceous (Santonian, 83-87 Ma) amber from the Kuji district, northern Honshu, Japan. It is characterized by (1) small size of the shoot, less than 5 mm wide, (2) distant leaf arrangement, (3) oblong leaves with a single costa, (4) entire leaf margins without bordered cells, and (5) transparent outer layer of stem. The lack of apical parts of the shoot, reproductive structures and sporophytes prevents us from giving a more extensive comparison of M. kujiensis to extant species, but the characters observed in this species suggest an affinity to Bryopsida. Along with the spore genus Stereisporites (Sphagnaceae) and Polytrichites aichiensis, y which is based on transverse sections of a fossilized stem, M. kujiensis is one of the few fossil mosses reported from Japan and the first unequivocal evidence of fossilized moss shoots found in Japan, an important addition to our knowledge of Late Cretaceous mosses from East Asia.
20110899|A synopsis of the lichen family Gomphillaceae in eastern North America is presented, based mainly on collections made by the second author during the past 30 years. A total of 57 taxa is reported for the area, including 11 species and one variety new to science: Arthotheliopsis floridensis Lcking & W. R. Buck, sp. nov., Echinoplaca areolata Lcking & W. R. Buck, sp. nov., Gyalectidium tuckerae Lcking & Lendemer, sp. nov., G. viride Lcking, W. R. Buck & Rivas Plata, sp. nov., Gyalideopsis americana Lcking & W. R. Buck, sp. nov., G. ozarkensis Lcking, W. R. Buck & R. C. Harris, sp. nov., G. subaequatoriana Lcking & W. R. Buck, sp. nov., G. submonospora Lcking & W. R. Buck, sp. nov., G. vainioi var. semicirculata Lcking & W. R. Buck, var. nov., Tricharia floridensis Lcking & W. R. Buck, sp. nov., T. subumbrosa Lcking & W. R. Buck, sp. nov., and T. tuckerae Lcking & W. R. Buck, sp. nov. The new combinations Gyalideopsis berenice (Ellis & Everh.) Lcking & W. R. Buck, comb. nov. (Basionym: Stilbomyces berenice Ellis & Everh.) and G. epicorticis (A. Funk) Tnsberg & Vzda, comb. nov. (Basionym: Microlychnus epicorticis A. Funk) are made. In addition, the following taxa are added to the checklist of North American lichens: Arthotheliopsis planicarpa (Lcking) Lcking, Srus. & Vzda, Calenia solorinoides Lcking, Echinoplaca furcata subsp. neotropica Lcking, E. lucernifera Kalb & Vzda, E. similis Kalb & Vzda, E. tetrapla (Zahlbr.) Lcking, Gyalectidium catenulatum (Cavalc. & A. A. Silva) L. I. Ferraro, Lcking & Srus., Gyalideopsis africana Kalb & Vzda, G. aff. argentea (Mont.) Kalb & Vzda, G. lambinonii Vzda, G. macarthurii Lcking, Umaa & Aptroot, G. wesselsii Lcking, Sipman & Chaves, Tricharia cuneata L. I. Ferraro & Vzda, T. aff. farinosa R. Sant. and T. vainioi R. Sant. Keys and selected distribution maps are presented. Rich material of Gomphillus americanus Essl., Gyalideopsis berenice and G. buckii Lcking, Srus. & Vzda ( Tricharia vezdae W. R. Buck) allowed for a detailed study on hyphophore development in these species.
41289763|The Madeiran laurel forest (Laurisilva) is a subtropical forest with a very rich bryophyte flora and is considered as one of the most important remnants of the evergreen laurel forest from the Tertiary period. The effect of the laurel forest tree species on the epiphytic bryophyte species richness and composition in Madeira Island was studied in 40 sites. A total of 160 trees, belonging to 19 different tree species were assessed in the laurel forest. For subsequent analyses, we focused on seven tree species, for which at least nine individuals were sampled. A total of 137 trees from 40 sites were thus available for statistical analyses. We recorded 110 epiphytic bryophyte taxa (59 species and one variety of mosses and 50 liverworts). Accumulation curves showed clear differences in bryophyte species richness between the different tree species, with typical laurel forest tree species harboring more bryophytes. Tree species also had highly significant effects on species density (mean species richness per 10  20 cm plot), with densities higher on the typical laurel forest trees. This was especially true for the liverworts and the endemics for which Clethra arborea, Laurus novocanariensis, Ocotea foetens and Persea indica exhibited higher species density than the two Erica species and Myrica faya. For mosses species density of the tree species tended to be more similar, only O. foetens showed a higher density and M. faya a lower. Endemic bryophytes were lacking on Erica species and almost lacking on M. faya. Concerning species composition, we found significant effects of the tree species sampled. There was a rather clear gradient from the two Erica species to the typical laurel forest tree species such as L. novocanariensis, O. foetens, and P. indica. An analysis of indicator species revealed ten significant indicator species for the typical laurel forest trees, C. arborea, L. novocanariensis, O. foetens and P. indica. Our results reinforced the importance of the laurel forest of Madeira as a hotspot of epiphytic bryophyte diversity whose species distribution is strongly shaped by the nature of the tree species.
10.2307/3241995| The January-April 1978 Projeto Flora Amaznica expedition to Acre and Rondnia, Brazil, and Beni, Bolivia, resulted in 166 specimens of Calymperaceae among the cryptogams collected. Calymperes is represented by six species and Syrrhopodon by 11 species and varieties. Since a special attempt was made to collect each calymperaceous moss encountered, the number of specimens of each taxon is, to some extent, indicative of the relative frequency and abundance of the taxa in the areas visited. On this basis, Calymperes donnellii, represented by 13 collections, was the most common member of its genus encountered; and Syrrhopodon incompletus var. incompletus (34 collections) and S. cryptocarpos (32 collections) were the most frequently encountered species of Syrrhopodon. Calymperes donnellii, C. erosum, Syrrhopodon cryptocarpos, S. parasiticus var. parasiticus, S. simmondsii and S. xanthophyllus are reported new to Bolivia. The basic moss flora in the areas visited by the expedition in western Amaznia includes representatives of a widespread lowland tropical American bryoflora. 
10.2307/3243621| Chemistry and morphology in the Ramalina americana complex are highly variable but correlate broadly with geography and ecology. Fifty-five natural products, including ten new ones for which molecular structures are proposed, were identified microchemically in 244 specimens. These diverse secondary products-including orcinol and -orcinol para-depsides and depsidones, orcinol meta-depsides, and usnic acid-occur in chemosyndromes that constitute the chemotypes. A biogenetic analysis of the chemotypes suggests an evolutionary origin by loss mutations. One group, with a center of diversity in Mesoamerica, could have come from an ancestral chemotype producing boninic acid; another group, now restricted to the southeastern United States, could have come from an ancestral chemotype with highly oxidized -orcinol depsidones. The typically apotheciate R. americana complex obviously reproduces primarily by spores, but it never produces spermagonia. Homothallism (selfing) could maintain the integrity of the chemotypes, which may represent a series of microspecies each adapted to its own segment of the total range of the complex. 
10.2307/3244249|A new para-tridepside, named trivaric acid, composed of three units of divaric acid is the major product of a new chemotype in the Ramalina americana complex. It was detected in a single thallus, and in spite of wide surveys of R. americana and related species, no additional material of this chemistry has been found. The structure of trivaric acid is based on TLC and HPLC correlations, microhydrolysis, and micromethanolysis.
10.2307/3242309| Oropogon loxensis is typified on the basis of a specimen in Fe's herbarium in Geneva. The species is caespitose and is characterized by the production of atranorin, 2'-O-methylatranorin, protocetraric acid, salazinic acid (), methyl 3--hydroxy-4-O-demethylbarbatate, and 4-O-demethylbarbatate. Two species related to O. loxensis are newly described: O. atranorinus, which differs from O. loxensis by its pendent habit, and O. lopezii, which differs by its production of only protocetraric acid. 
10.2307/3244022|Described as new: Sphagnum imperforatum (Colombia), S. subdivisum (Costa Rica), S. cleefii (Colombia), S. trirameum (Costa Rica), and S. poasense (Costa Rica).
10.2307/3242052|Eight species of hepatics are reported for the first time from Arizona; the occurrence of a ninth species is clarified.
10.2307/3243904|Ionaspis alba sp. nov., described from the Appalachian-Great Lakes region, is a lichenized ascomycete superficially resembling I. odora and sharing morphological characteristics with Hymenelia lacustris. It is characterized by olive-gray to brownish-gray thalli, small whitish to light-brownish apothecial disks, thin subhymenium, small ascospores, short conidia, trebouxioid photobiont, and the lack of an epihymenial pigment and epipsamma. It is a xerophilous and sciophilous species of small boulders in temperate deciduous forests of eastern North America.
20110964|Chenia ruigtevleia is described from two localities in the Western Cape Province of South Africa. It is most readily distinguished from congeners by the presence of laminal papillae. Further points of distinction from the apparently closely related C. leptophyllum are the smaller laminal cells and generally short-ovate leaves. We provide a key for the four species recognized in Chenia.
10.2307/3241281| Germination and initial intercalary growth of gemmae were not influenced by 2,4-D, maleic acid hydrazide, gibberellic acid, or 2-furanacrylic acid (-2-furylacrylic acid) in concentrations up to 250 ppm. Gibberellic acid delayed rhizoid development, but maleic acid hydrazide had no effect. No difference in number of rhizoids was noted. Apical cell activity and cell elongation were generally suppressed. Internal differentiation did not occur in plants treated with 2,4-D and maleic hydrazide, and only localized areas were differentiated in enlarging plants under 2-furanacrylic acid. The results indicate an increasing sensitivity with age of the plant to both type and concentration of the regulator. 
20110812|The genus Zygodon Hook. & Taylor is revised for southern South America (Andean-Patagonian and Fuegian regions). Thirteen taxa (twelve species and one variety) are recognized as occurring in the region: Z. bartramioides Malta, Z. chilensis Calabrese & F. Lara, Z. hookeri Hampe var. hookeri, Z. hookeri var. leptobolax (Mll. Hal.) Calabrese comb. nov., Z. intermedius Bruch & Schimp., Z. jaffuelii Thr., Z. magellanicus Dusn ex Malta, Z. menziesii (Schwgr.) Arnott, Z. papillatus Mont., Z. pentastichus (Mont.) Mll. Hal., Z. pichinchensis (Taylor) Mitt., Z. reinwardtii (Hornsch.) Bruch & Schimp. and Z. obtusifolius Hook. All taxa previously considered to grow in southern South America were studied, and many were typified. Because of the biogeographical connections with other Southern Hemisphere landmasses, some taxa from other areas (e.g., Australasia or South Africa) were also considered. The studied taxa are a good representation of the genus as a whole, thus allowing one to conclude that Zygodon, worldwide, consists of three subgenera: subg. Zygodon, the species of which have papillose leaf cells that are flat as seen in cross-section, and that can be further divided in two sections, sect. Zygodon defined by leaf basal cells not in differentiated bands and seta distally dextrorse, and sect. Stenomitrium Mitt. with leaf basal cells disposed in differentiated alternating bands and seta distally sinistrorse; subg. Codonoblepharon (Schwgr.) Calabrese stat. nov. comprising species with smooth, flat leaf cells in cross-section; and subg. Obtusifolium (Malta) Calabrese stat. nov., including species with papillose, bulging leaf cells. For each of the accepted taxa, keys, descriptions, illustrations, a complete list of synonyms previously used in the study area (sometimes expanded with names from abroad), ecology, distribution maps, variability and differentiation from related taxa are provided. Study of the peristome of Zygodon with the SEM provides new data about its structure and ornamentation.
10.2307/3240587|Merceya ligulata (Spruce) Schimp. is reported for the first time from Georgia. In North America it was previously known from Arizona, Illinois, Tennessee, and Mexico.
10.2307/3240996|Pyxine caesiopruinosa is distributed in the United States from the Gulf of Mexico northward to Maryland, the Ohio River Valley, and northeastern Kansas. It contains lichexanthone which is responsible for its brilliant fluorescence in ultraviolet light, an easily used method to distinguish it from the closely related P. sorediata for which it has consistently been mistaken.
10.2307/3243862|Concentrations of sulfur, nitrogen, and seven metal elements are reported for the lichen Flavoparmelia baltimorensis from three monitoring stations in Maryland and Virginia. At Plummers Island, Maryland, 15 km from the center of Washington, D.C., lichens have been collected for nearly 100 years. The other two stations, Bear Island, Maryland (21 km) and Stony Man Mountain, Virginia (120 km), were established in the 1970's by Mason Hale to help document changes in ambient air quality in the Washington, D.C. area. Concentrations of cadmium, chromium, nickel, zinc, and lead were consistently highest at Plummers Island and lowest at Stony Man Mountain; concentrations of the other four elements (nitrogen, sulfur, aluminum, and copper) were also consistently higher at Plummers Island than at Stony Man Mountain. Recent collections, in 1988 and 1992, revealed marked reductions in the concentration of all nine elements except aluminum at all three stations, providing limited, but encouraging, signs of improved air quality in the region.
40732286|Lichen diversity along the Mississippi River in the Minneapolis-St. Paul urban area was studied in 2008 by sampling 37 localities along the 110-kilometer river basin, resulting in 76 species, which are thought to represent 80% of the complete flora. A significant decrease in lichen diversity toward the urban part of the river basin, as well as the presence of only one cyanolichen suggests that urban factors, e. g. air pollutants and habitat destruction may be affecting lichen diversity. In addition, lichen diversity has significantly decreased from that of 112 years ago, when a study by Fink reported 113 species, and a higher number of genera represented by a single species.
20110757|Hypogymnia incurvoides Rass. was originally described from the Archangel'sk Region in northwestern Russia in 1967. Long neglected, it has since been found at several sites in Newfoundland and Nova Scotia in eastern Canada. Hypogymnia incurvoides is most similar to H. physodes, but is readily distinguished from that species by the presence of holes in the lobe tips and axils, black-margined lobes forming a regular lattice, and the absence of 3-hydroxyphysodic acid. This substance gives a K+ reddish brown reaction, which is consistently seen in H. physodes but not H. incurvoides. The species should be sought in other oceanic boreal to subarctic locations in the Northern Hemisphere.
10.2307/3242372|Germinating Polytrichum commune Hedw. spores showed great insensitivity to S-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate (EPTC). At the lowest EPTC concentration (2 ppmw EPTC) the young protonema was usually more developed than the control material, with higher chloroplast pigment content on a basis of mg/dish. At 100 ppmw EPTC, the young protonema was less developed and production of chlorophylls and carotenoids was decreased by about 30%. However, dry weight was at the level of the control material. At 200 ppmw EPTC spores remained either ungerminated, stopped germinating at an early stage or developed into sporelings with few tightly-packed short cells containing chloroplasts. At this stage, growth processes in general were inhibited more than the chloroplast pigment production. Also, the following changes in ultrastructure of sporelings were noted: cytoplasm was very dense, nucleus large, amount of vacuolization low and chloroplasts were amyloplast-like. At 300 ppmw the spores were usually ungerminated.
10.2307/3242442|Individuals of the slug Pallifera varia were observed under field conditions in a talus slope habitat in Shenandoah National Park during late summer, 1979. Slugs were most frequently observed feeding on the crustose lichen Aspicilia gibbosa. A quantitative analysis of saxicolous cryptogam coverage and frequency in the study area demonstrated that Aspicilia spp. and several other lichen species exhibited relatively high importance values in the community. Thin-layer chromatography of fecal material obtained from field-collected slugs was done to ascertain the feeding preferences of slugs under field conditions. Aspicilin, a lichen secondary compound produced by Aspicilia spp., was extracted from slug fecal material most frequently. Laboratory experiments designed to determine those lichen species that were preferred by slugs established a preference gradient with Aspicilia spp. most preferred and Xanthoparmelia cumberlandia and Huilia albocaerulescens actively avoided. Slugs apparently do not feed on those lichen species most frequently encountered in the community. Rather, they appear to make food choices that are based at least in part on lichen chemistry. Stictic acid and protocetraric acid appear to function as anti-herbivore compounds in observed slug-lichen interactions.
10.2307/3241408|The distributional ranges of 17 taxa are discussed. Eleven taxa of bryophytes are reported as new to Alberta and one species new to the Northwest Territories. These include reports of significant range extensions for Frullania inflata and Myurella siberica. Twenty-one taxa of Sphagnum occur in Alberta based on herbarium confirmations and three taxa of Sphagnum are reported as new to the province. The North American distribution of Ulota curvifolia is mapped and its distributional pattern is considered as low-arctic.
40982957|While a great deal of research has illustrated the importance of late-successional forests for maintaining biodiversity in the Pacific Northwest of North America, over 76% of the forests in the region are less than 100 years old. To preserve landscape-level biodiversity, forest managers are increasingly interested in how young stands can be manipulated to favor late-successional species. We sought to understand how stand-level gradients in canopy structure, particularly those affected by thinning, relate to dominant forest floor bryophyte and lichen species composition and abundance. We sampled forest floor lichen and bryophytes ten years after alternative thinning treatments at two sites in western Oregon. Relationships of forest floor communities to canopy structure were site-specific. At the first site, moss and lichen abundance had small-scale geographic patterns and mosses were negatively associated with epiphytic cyanolichen species richness, however, we found no strong associations between forest floor communities and stand structural characteristics. At the second site, lichens, particularly Cladonia, was negatively associated with canopy cover and was most in thinned plots. Bryophyte abundance was positively associated with Tsuga basal area. This relationship was stronger in the thinned stands, which had a different community composition than those left unthinned. Overall, the forest floor communities were fairly homogeneous at both sites and relationships with stand structural variables were subtle, indicating that thinning did not have a strong impact.
20061121|The genus Splachnum is newly recorded from Brazil based on a collection from Santa Catarina. Inferences from two chloroplast loci, the trnL-trnF region and the rps4 gene, indicate that this sample is closely allied to the primarily North American S. pensylvanicum, but differs by several mutations. Examination of populations of S. pensylvanicum suggests that this species is fairly variable morphologically, and that the Brazilian specimen, although atypic, cannot be distinguished from the Northern Hemisphere populations. The population from Santa Catarina, Brazil, is only the second record of this species from South America and the first from the Southern Hemisphere.
10.2307/3241702|Eleven species of mosses are reported for the first time from Arizona.
10.2307/3242196|Phaeographina maxima Groenh. is reduced to synonymy with Phaeographina galactinum (Leight.) Patw. and Makhija comb. nov.
10.2307/3240989| Leucobryum incurvifolium C. Mll. is resurrected from the synonymy of L. albidum, and a new species, Ochrobryum crumii, is described from Mexico. The new combination L. propaguliferum (Dix.) Robins. is made. 
10.2307/3242028|The deletion of Sphagnum pylaesii Brid. from the Romanian flora is suggested from studies of material collected from the South Carpathian Mountains in Romania. Collections from high altitudes in the Andes range in Peru constitute a southern extension of the distribution of the species.
20110945|Pohlia clavicaulis from Bolivia and Pohlia emergens from Argentina are reduced to synonymy under Pohlia chilensis (Mont.) A. J. Shaw. This Andean species, characterized by its polysetous condition, is also recorded for the first time from Africa.
10.2307/3242699|Drepanocladus crassicostatus Janssens is described as new from North American collections of living populations and from fossils of Pleistocene and Holocene age. The species is compared with D. capillifolius (Warnst.) Warnst., D. exannulatus var. rotae (De not.) Loeske, D. exannulatus var. purpurascens (Schimp.) Herz. and D. trichophyllus (Warnst.) Podp. Drepanocladus crassicostatus is differentiated from these mosses by less well-developed groups of alar cells, a strong, wide costa, and the absence of brush-like branch tips. It is known only from western North America and occurs in more minerotrophic habitats than D. trichophyllus. Evidence for the occurrence of D. trichophyllus in North America is a single collection.
10.2307/3242301|Leptodontium flexifolium (Dicks. ex With.) Hampe in Lindb. and Pseudocrossidium revolutum (Brid. in Schrad.) Zander (= Desmatodon ellesmerensis Brassard) were found in mixed (semi-autochthonous) fossil bryophyte assemblages recovered from sediments in the Old Crow Basin, Yukon Territory, Canada. The peat containing Leptodontium flexifolium was found at an erosional surface formed about 60,000 years ago. North American localities of extant Leptodontium flexifolium populations include Mexico, and U.S.A.: Arizona, New Mexico and North Carolina while Pseudocrossidium revolutum is known from northern Canada and the Pacific coast of the United States and Canada. We suggest that Leptodontium flexifolium and Pseudocrossidium revolutum have distribution ranges in part established by early Tertiary times. Tectonic and climatological changes during late Tertiary and the Pleistocene period probably eliminated many populations of P. revolutum and restricted the survivers to small refugial areas, while Leptodontium flexifolium appears to have been eliminated entirely from northern areas.
10.2307/3241784|Sphagnum recurvum var. tenue and Sphagnum teres are reported as new to North Dakota.
10.2307/3242051|Among the elements of Kofler's nutritive solution, manganese, usually at the concentration of 10
23321031|The new combination Diorygma antillarum (Vain.) Nelsen, Lcking & Rivas Plata is proposed. This taxon lacks ascomata and produces unique isidia-like structures for vegetative dispersal. Its systematic position was clarified by incorporating molecular sequence data from the small subunit of the mitochondrial ribosomal DNA (mtSSU) and small and large subunits of the nuclear ribososomal DNA (nuSSU and nuLSU). Our phylogenetic hypotheses suggest this taxon is not part of Herpothallon in the class Arthoniomycetes, but is supported as a member of the genus Diorygma (Graphidaceae) in the class Lecanoromycetes. This agrees with morphological and chemical features of this species.
10.2307/3242864| The habitats of approximately 20 species of Sphagnum in the Coastal Plain of North and South Carolina are briefly described. Water samples from a range of specific habitats showed generally low pH values (3.5-5.6) and low specific conductivity (18 to 118 mho). Data relating species presence to height above the local water table confirm the widespread observation that Sphagnum species tend to be narrowly distributed along a gradient from strictly aquatic to variously less aquatic species. Coastal Plain habitats, such as pocosins and savannahs, differ sufficiently from more northern bogs and fens to continue the use of separate names for them. 
3244756|In November 1999, during a field trip along the eastern slopes of the Californian Sierra Nevada, at five different localities a Grimmia species was found that, with some doubt, was identified as Grimmia mariniana Sayre. Recent comparison with fresh material of this species, and with the type specimen, revealed that the Sierra Nevada plants differ in sporophytic as well as in gametophytic characters. As a result of this, it is described and illustrated as Grimmia nevadense H. C. Greven, spec. nov.
10.2307/3242310|Five lichen taxa are new to Texas including Parmotrema mordenii (Hale) Hale, which is new to the United States. Known North American distributions for several taxa are extended.
3244143|Three maritime species of Verrucaria are described as new from Japan: Verrucaria miyagiensis H. Harada sp. nov., V. praeviella H. Harada sp. nov., and V. sanrikuensis H. Harada sp. nov.
10.2307/3241483|The proper exciples and subhymenial hyphae of the apothecia of Lecidea diducens Nyl. and L. speirodes Nyl. contain a colorless substance that turns red with aqueous calcium hypochlorite. Extraction of a small sample of apothecia of L. diducens gave a new depside, which was found to be 2'-O-methylanziaic acid by thin-layer chromatography of its hydrolysis products. Both of the species containing the new depside have a morphologically similar counterpart species that produces the bio genetically related depside confluentic acid.
10.2307/3241894|Barbula unguiculata Hedw., Bryum pseudocapillare Besch. and Rhabdoweisia crenulata (Mitt.) Jameson are new to the Hawaiian Islands. An additional 13 new island records are reported.
25614894|Field studies on the east side of Mount Katahdin, Maine, from 2001 to 2004, and an appraisal of published and unpublished Katahdin records from previous work documented 203 different bryophytes (131 mosses and 72 liverworts) for subalpine conifer forest, alpine tundra and cirque walls, and krummholz in between. This work represents the only recent investigation of a high altitude bryoflora in the mountains of the northeastern United States. Two mosses (Hygrohypnum smithii, Pohlia tundrae) are new to this region, and six others, including Neckera oligocarpa, are new records for Maine. Investigations of Grimmia (4 spp.), Cynodontium (2 spp.) and Kiaeria (2 spp.) clarified the application of taxonomic concepts for these mosses relative to previous published work. In conjuction with parallel studies of Katahdin lichens, eight habitats were specified for the study area. These habitats were largely the same places as those recognized for lichens. The eight habitats differed in the number of Arctic mosses and in unique occurrences of various mosses and liverworts. Mean Arctic-boreal-cool temperate values, introduced as an analytical tool to evaluate the distributional affinities of Kathadin lichens, were calculated for bryophytes for seven of eight habitats. The mean for each habitat class was well predicted by a multiple regression equation, with altitude, solar gain and snowpack persistence, but not substratum, as independent variables. Upper and lower altitutinal limits of bryophyte species occurrence were determined. The documented presence of Katahdin alpine bryophytes in four other mountain areas in northeastern United States and adjacent Qubec, Canada, showed fewer of them in western areas (the high Adirondack Mountains, New York and Mt. Mansfield, Vermont), a possible outcome of increasing oceanic conditions eastward.
10.2307/3241891|Long term (30 days) culturing of Barbilophozia barbata in 1% sucrose enriched Iverson inorganic media allowed mature leaf differentiation to be described in terms of: 1) degree of nucleation, (58%) by analysis of serially sectioned leaves; 2) compartmentalization of mature leaves into regions of high (61.93%) and low (45.13%) nucleation by an analysis of variance of the mean percent nucleation of the leaf when divided into thirds from side to side; 3) appearance of a mixoploid population of cells, i.e., haploid and polyploid; and 4) ontogenesis of multistranded Feulgen positive chromatin masses following dark-starvation and 2% sucrose incubation. Recurring appearance of enucleation and polyploidy along with location of enucleated cells in the mid-laminal region of the leaf suggests an analogy to development of proxylem elements in vascular plants.
10.2307/3241813|Two new species of Hypotrachyna are described from the Western Ghats region of India.
3244664|Genetic and tribal relationships within the hepatic family Lejeuneaceae are problematic. We studied the phylogeny of the family using sequence data from three genomic regions: 1) the internal transcribed spacer 2 sequence between the nuclear genes encoding 26S and 5.8S ribosomal RNA, 2) partial sequences of the chloroplast genes trnL and trnF including the spacer between them, and 3) the partial sequence of the chloroplast gene, rbcL. Seventeen species representing the subfamilies Ptychanthoideae and Lejeuneoideae as well as the tribes Nipponolejeuneae, Lejeuneae, and Cololejeuneae were included. The family as a whole seems to be monophyletic, with the exception of the genus Nipponolejeunea that is closer to the genus Jubula. Our results also support the existence of two main subfamilies, Lejeuneoideae and Ptychanthoideae. The representatives of the genus Cololejeunea are basal in the Lejeuneoideae clade in our tree, supporting tribal, rather than subfamilial position for the Cololejeuneae. The relationships of the Lejeuneaceae, Jubuloideae, and Frullania remain unresolved in our analyses.
3244568|Lichen floristics and distribution were examined in cool temperate rainforests of Victoria, Australia. Forty sites were sampled, ten from each of the Otways, Yarra Ranges, Baw Baw, and Errinundra regions. A total of 165 lichen species were recorded, representing 38 families. Seventeen species are new for Victoria. Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling showed three lichen groups that corresponded with the rainforest types in which they occurred. A sub-group of lichen species were considered widespread and represented the core of Victoria's rainforest lichen flora.
3244827|Parmelia sulcata Taylor is generally believed to be fairly pollution tolerant, and consequently it is sometimes collected in urban and/or polluted localities. The condition of these specimens, however, is not always luxuriant and healthy. This study tested the hypothesis that total thallus and algal layer thickness, and the algal layer ratio would be thinner in polluted areas, thus allowing these characters to be used a indicators of air pollutant effects. Herbarium specimens were studied from 16 different localities varying in pollution level. The thallus and algal layers and ratio were not affected by year or locality of sampling, but decreased 11, 31 and 21 % respectively between low and high pollution level localities. These results agreed with earlier studies using other species, but further work is needed to clarify the effects of geography and substrate on these phenomena.
10.2307/3243342|The systematic relationships between Mielichhoferia elongata (Hoppe & Hornsch.) Hornsch. and M. mielichhoferiana (Funck) Loeske were assessed by measuring morphological characteristics of plants from 14 North American and European populations. In addition, electrophoretically detectable genetic variation at 21 putative gene loci was estimated from a sample of over 300 plants representing 32 populations. Mielichhoferia elongata contains significantly more genetic variability than M. mielichhoferiana. Mean genetic identities were 0.758 and 0.909 between conspecific populations of M. elongata and M. mielichhoferiana, respectively. The mean identity between populations of the two species was 0.628. In addition, the two species could be consistently distinguished by allele frequencies at three loci (Mdh-2, Mdh-3, and Pgi-1). Morphological measurements showed that M. elongata and M. mielichhoferiana, defined by genetic criteria, differ in leaf length, leaf shape, and cell size, although morphological differentiation between the two species is weak. Nevertheless, morphological and genetic evidence combined suggest that M. elongata and M. mielichhoferiana have had independent evolutionary trajectories. In most regions, M. mielichhoferiana is more rare than M. elongata.
10.2307/3244099|Aerosol OT solution as a softener for herbarium specimens of bryophytes in combination with FDA (formaldehyde-dimethyl-acetal) rapid dehydration was tested for use in SEM preparation. Even the extremely fragile tissues of the gametophyte-sporophyte junction in liverworts and mosses (especially the sporophyte and gametophyte placental cells) show excellent preservation of anatomical and micromorphological structures after this treatment. The technique is proposed when living material is lacking.
20061096|Some additions and corrections to the recent treatment of this family in North America are made. The new species, Fuscopannaria convexa P. M. Jrg,. is described from hypermaritime Alaska. From this region, the hairy subantarctic Psoroma hispidulum Nyl., is recorded as new to North America. Fuscopannaria laceratula (Hue) P. M. Jrg. and Psoroma tenue Henssen are shown to have a wider distribution than previously anticipated, the latter arctic-alpine. Fuscopannaria labrata, a sorediate species, is described as new from maritime cliffs on the Channel Islands, California. The subtropical species Pannaria malmei C. W. Dodge, was incorrectly recorded from North America, and the material is renamed Pannaria rubiginella P. M. Jrg. & Sipm., a species recently described from Juan Fernandez in Chile. The new combination, Santessoniella crossophylla (Tuck.) P. M. Jrg., is made. A key to the two terricolous, Arctic species of Fuscopannaria containing green algae, F. globigera Fryday & P. M. Jrg. and F. viridescens P. M. Jrg. & Zhurbenko, is given.
3244801| Six little known species in the Parmeliella mariana complex are accepted and described: P. cinerata (Zahlbr.) P. M. Jrg., comb. nov. (Hawaii, Sri Lanka); P. exornata (Zahlbr.) P. M. Jrg., comb. nov. (Borneo, Hawaii); P. flavida P. M. Jrg., sp. nov. (The Phillipines), P. fuscata P. M. Jrg, sp. nov. (India); P. imbricatula (Mll. Arg.) P. M. Jrg., comb. nov. (South America), and P. vainioi (Zahlbr.) P. M. Jrg., comb. nov. (Borneo, Java, The Philippines). Parmeliella flavida is the only known species in the family to contain xanthones. Likewise an isidiate taxon in the P. pannosa complex is accepted as a species and named: P. isidiopannosa P. M. Jrg., stat. & nom. nov. (Central and South America). 
10.2307/3242273| Glycolipids begin to form during the first hours of germination Polytrichum commune Hedw.: monoglycosyl diglycerides (MGDG) during the first 3 h and diglycosyl diglycerides (DGDG) within the succeeding 3 h. Further increase in the glycolipid content occurs in connection with chloroplast replication. Fatty acid pattern of glycolipids, particularly that of the MGDG fraction, is gradually changed in the course of germination: the proportion of shorter chain acids (i.e. 14-16 carbon atoms in the carbon skeleton) decreases and the proportion of longer chain (i.e. 18-20 carbon atoms in the carbon skeleton) and unsaturated fatty acids increases. In both fractions C 18:3  3 acid accumulates, accounting for 53.4% and 80.2% of the total fatty acids in the MGDG and DGDG fractions, respectively. No great changes occur in the proportion of C 20 polyenoic fatty acids; they are present throughout the germination only in trace or small amounts. 
41289792|Two species of the genus Colura, C. digitalis and C. tenuicornis were previously known from the West African island of So Tom. Colura calderae known only from Bioko Island is new to So Tom and C. thomeensis, a species new to science, is described and illustrated. A key to the four species now recognized on So Tom is provided.
10.2307/3241830| The following four lichen taxa are reported from North America for the first time: Anaptychia bryorum sp. nov. from Colorado, previously known from the high mountains of Europe under the illegitimate name A. stippaea ("Ach") Ndv.; Fulgensia bracteata ssp. deformis (Erichs.) Poelt from the Canadian Arctic, a lichen known in Europe on gypseous and calcareous soils; Fulgensia desertorum (Tom.) Poelt from Colorado, also reported from the dry, hot regions of Eurasia; and Physcia pusilloides Zahlbr. from the Appalachian Mountains and the region of the Great Lakes, an inhabitant of the moist mountain forests of Central Europe. 
10.2307/3241718|Either red light or far-red light increased the activity of the enzyme, phenylalanine ammonia lyase, in the protonemal stage of the moss Funaria hygrometrica Hedw. In continuous far-red light the enzyme reached a peak of activity around 18 hours, and declined somewhat rapidly there after The use of metabolic inhibitors indicated that both the induction phase and declining phase were dependent on RNA and protein synthesis. The similarity of this photoregulation system to that found in vascular plants is discussed.
10.2307/3241499|Lichen spores are discharged onto a parafilm sheet, thoroughly mixed in water, dried, stored, and returned at will into an aqueous suspension to be distributed homogeneously on a culture surface. The randomness of distribution has been verified, allowing the calculation of a confidence interval for the percentage of germinated spores according to the law of binomial distribution. Spores of Xanthoria parietina and Physcia pulverulenta stored on parafilm retain their germinative ability at least one month.
3244892|A new moss species, Orthotrichum underwoodii F. Lara, Garilleti & Mazimpaka, is described from material kept in the New York Botanical Garden Herbarium. The new taxon is included in subgenus Pulchella (Schimp.) Vitt, and characterized by leaf cells pluripapillose; capsule immersed, cylindric, abruptly contracted to the seta whose apical part is hidden in a hollow; operculum conic-convex; stomata cryptopore and located in the lower capsule half; capsule with 8 short exothecial bands, comprising 2(3) cell rows; exostome with 16 whitish teeth recurving irregularly; and endostome with 16 segments uniseriate. Orthotrichum underwoodii is taxonomically close to O. handiense F. Lara, Garilleti & Mazimpaka recently described from the Canary Islands (Spain). Differences of the two mosses and possible confusion of the new species with others are discussed.
20110911|Eleven lectotypes and one neotype are designated for the names of the 12 Latin American species in the genus Fossombronia Raddi that have not been previously typified. The entries for each are given in alphabetical order with author citation, place and date of publication, herbarium of deposit and supporting information. The original protologue and images of the herbarium label for each type specimen can be viewed at the URL &lthttp//bryophytes.plant.siu.edu/fossombronia.html&gt.
10.2307/3243076| A micrographic and diagrammatic representation of blepharoplast structure in the pygmy moss Archidium tenerrimum Mitt. (Bryopsida: Archidiales) is presented. The morphology of the blepharoplast conforms generally to that of Funaria, each having the open-aperturate type of spline. The Archidium spline comprises 24 microtubules at its widest region. Flanked on the right side by six microtubules, the aperture of the spline is two microtubule-diameters wide over most of its length, increasing to three for a short distance at the anterior end. The multilayered structure exhibits three rather than four strata. Much of the right-lateral margin of the lamellar strip extends beyond the spline for a distance of up to 90 nm. The basal bodies are unequal in length. The posterior basal body is highly unusual in that the forward-extending central hub terminates at approximately the same level as that of the anterior basal body. In overall length, the posterior badal body measures 5 m and is about four times longer than the anterior basal body. Beneath the blepharoplast the wide anterior tip of the nucleus lies juxtaposed to the truncated posterior end of the lamellar strip and subtending mitochondrion. 
10.2307/3244458|Cheilolejeunea pluriplicata (Pearson) R. M. Schust. is a common species thought to be endemic to Africa. It is similar to Asian Cheilolejeunea khasiana (Mitt.) N. Kitag., however, it differs in having fusiform perianths with (6-)7-10 keels. Recent studies reveal the occurrence of C. pluriplicata in China (southern Yunnan) and Nepal. The structure of the sporophyte, elaters, and spores of C. pluriplicata agrees well with that in other species of Cheilolejeunea. A complete description and illustrations of C. pluriplicata are provided.
10.2307/3241105|Eighty species of mosses are reported from Nicaragua, 56 of which represent new records for the republic.
10.2307/3243859|In the mycobiont of the Cladonia chlorophaea complex, length variation in the ribosomal DNA is explained, in part, by the variable occurrence of multiple group I introns that may have been mobile during the evolution of this group. These potentially mobile introns can serve as a model for examining the variation detected in the ribosomal DNA from other lichens and, perhaps, as a model for examining variation in other genes, genotypes, and phenotypes. Because group I introns have been found also in the ribosomal DNA of some green algae, lichens may provide a good system to search for evidence of intron transfer between distantly related organisms. Not only can molecular systematics change the way we look at lichens, but lichens may change the way we look at molecular evolution.
20110943|Genetic variation and gene flow is examined for Dicranum elongatum on the beach ridge system along the Hudson Bay Lowlands in Wapusk National Park in Manitoba, Canada. Samples were collected from 10 quadrats from each of 14 transects on the beach ridge crests and in the low-lying troughs between beach ridges. Seven interspersed simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers produced 34 polymorphic loci in 37 samples of Dicranum elongatum. AMOVA showed evidence for population subdivision with 87% of the variation occurring within populations, but pairwise comparisons showed evidence for low levels of gene flow. Since sporophytes were not present in the coastal populations but are produced by plants further inland, the genetic variation in the coastal populations may be maintained by wind blown spores from sexually reproducing inland populations.
10.2307/3240599|In view of the paucity of information on the phenology of even the commonest species of mosses, a system is proposed to facilitate the accumulation of phenological data. The following essential developmental stages of the moss life cycle based on morphology and ecology are recognized and described: a) embryonic calyptra, b) seta with calyptra, c) capsule green with calyptra, d) capsule operculate and post-meiotic, e) capsule de-operculate, f) spore wall bulging, g) protonema, h) bud on protonema, i) juvenile stem, j) juvenile gametangium, k) antheridium, and l) archegonium. A method for coding and presenting the phenological data is described. As an example of the method, developmental stages and sub-stages are recorded among the 103 species and one variety of mosses in the flora of Rib Mountain, Marathon County, Wisconsin. In addition, 75 of the taxa are new records for Marathon County.
20110901|We studied lichen and bryophyte soil crust communities in a large public grazing allotment within a sagebrush steppe ecosystem in which the biotic soil crusts are largely intact. The allotment had been rested from grazing for 12 years, but experienced an extensive series of wildfires. In the 350, 4  0.5 m plots, stratified by topographic position, we found 60 species or species groups that can be distinguished in the field with a hand lens, averaging 11.5 species groups per plot. Lichen and bryophyte soil crust communities differed among topographic positions. Draws were the most disturbed, apparently from water erosion in a narrow channel and mass wasting from the steepened sides. Presumably because of this disturbance, draws had the lowest average species richness of all the topographic strata we examined. Biotic crust species richness and cover were inversely related to cover of the invasive annual, cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum), and positively related to cover of native bunchgrasses. Integrity of the biotic crust was more strongly related to cheatgrass than to fire. In general, we observed good recovery of crusts following fire, but only in those areas dominated by perennial bunchgrasses. We interpret the resilience of the biotic crust, in this case, to the low abundance of cheatgrass, low amounts of soil disturbance and high moss cover. These fires have not resulted in an explosion of the cheatgrass population, perhaps because of the historically low levels of livestock grazing.
41486750|Gyalidea fuscoclavata is described from one locality in the forest-steppe ecotone in south-western Argentina, where it grows on bark of the shrub Berberis microphylla. The new species is characterized by small (0.1-0.25 mm) black apothecia, 3-septate ascospores, apically thickened paraphyses with brown pigmented caps and KI+ blue hymenium.
10.2307/3242927|Syrrhopodon meijeri Reese is described as a new species from Sarawak, Borneo; S. sarawakensis (Dix.) Reese is a new combination based on Calymperes sarawakense Dix.; and Mitthyridium retusum (Besch.) Reese is a new combination based on Calymperes retusum Besch.; new synonyms and range records are reported for paleotropical species of Calymperes, Mitthyridium and Syrrhopodon; and names of Calymperes spp. of uncertain identity are listed with suggestion of probable affinities.
10.2307/3242193|Hygrohypnum steerei sp. nov. is described from Tamaulipas, Mexico. It is characterized by broadly ovate, deeply concave and shortly apiculate leaves with short and rather weak costae and numerous quadrate alar cells.
3244860|The antifungal and antifeedant activity of bryophytes is widely known, but mainly from in vitro studies. The first in vivo experiments have been performed at Bonn University. Alcoholic extracts of all twenty bryophytes used had an effect on a variety of crops infected with different fungi. Two liverworts showed systemic effects. Based on these results, commercial products from bryophytes have been developed and are sold in Germany. Additional field experiments using extracts derived from native bryophyte species were successfully completed in Peru and Bolivia. Bryophyte extract also has effects on human pathogenic fungi and may cure skin diseases, but currently are not sold for that purpose. However, a patent has been obtained to cure fungal infections of horses with bryophyte extract. This same extract shows antifeedant effects against slugs.
10.2307/3241208|In the 29 species of hepatics examined, the scanning electron microscope revealed several distinct types of leaf surface topographies. These varied from smooth to covered with striae, indentations, irregular mounds of wall materials and well defined papillae of different sizes and distributions. In every instance these features were due to sculpturing of the cell walls themselves rather than to superficial wax deposits. Whilst some forms of wall ornamentation were species specific, several instances of striking similarities between closely related taxa were also discovered. Discrepancies between light and scanning electron microscope observations are thought to be related to internal features of wall construction. In the light of the structural information obtained from this study, a partial overhaul and simplification of the terminology relating to surface architecture is outlined.
20110801|The new species, Schismatomma physconiicola, lichenicolous on the thallus of Physconia cf. muscigena, is described from Mexico. It is the first known non-lichenized, lichenicolous species in the genus Schismatomma.
10.2307/3241082|Range extensions are given for 176 species including two new to North America, Anastrophyllum donianum (Hook.) Steph. and Dicranodontium circinatum (Wils.) Schimp., and nine new to Alaska and Yukon Territory. The discovery of Splachnum melanocaulon (Wahl.) Schwaegr. may be the first report of this species from North America. Habitat notes are given with special attention to the rocks and minerals in the substrates. The taxonomy and distribution of some critical species are discussed.
10.2307/3242391|The abundance and species diversity of nitrogen fixing lichens were determined for several forests of the southern Appalachian Mountains of western North Carolina. Gray beech forests of wet, high-elevation beech gaps were auspicious locations for these lichens. The bark of Aesculus octandra Marshal was the optimum habitat, particularly for the dominants Lobaria quercizans Michx. and Lobaria pulmonaria (L.) Hoffm. Lichen biomass in this gray beech forest commonly ranged from 7 to 9 kg ha
10.2307/3242801|An older name is recognized for the Asiatic type species of Campylopodiella Card., C. tenella Card., and a second Central and South American species is transferred into the genus. The necessary new combinations, C. himalayana (Broth.) J.-P. Frahm and C. malagensis (Herz.) J.-P. Frahm are established.
10.2307/3241326|Eleven species of the lichen genus Lobaria (Schreb.) Hoffm. are morphologically described, chemically defined, and mapped as they occur in North America north of Mexico. Lobaria kurokawae Yoshim. is reported new to the area. The occurrence of atranorin in the genus is confirmed, and the crystals of some chemically unidentified compounds are pictured. Lobaria hallii (Tuck.) Zahlbr. was found to contain a crystalline lichen substance.
10.2307/3243943|Range extensions are cited for Catapyrenium acarosporoides and C. compactum. Catapyrenium daedaleum and C. schaereri are added to the treatment. Two species, Catapyrenium globosum Thoms. and C. radiatum Thoms. are described as new. A revised key to the species in North America is provided.
10.2307/3243637|The nearest neighbor relations of the cryptogams growing on Quercus rubra in Michigan were investigated over whole tree trunks, and over four subsections of trunks to partially eliminate the effects of microhabitat. At all scales numerous nonrandom associations were found, indicating that it is not only gross microhabitat requirements that determine these relationships. The associations were found to differ from place to place on the tree trunk. Despite sharing the same general habitat (the tree trunk), or part of the habitat (e.g., upper north side), some species and groups of species are rarely neighbors, whereas others are far more likely to coexist and therefore interact.
10.2307/3243837|One hundred fifty-three taxa of lichens and one lichenicolous fungus are reported from Attu Island, the westernmost island of the Aleutian chain. Amygdalaria consentiens, Lecanora confusa, and Rhizocarpon obscuratum, are new to Alaska. The lichen flora of Attu Island is primarily comprised of wide-ranging arctic-alpine and boreal species; a coastal element is moderately represented, while amphi-Beringian species form a minor element.
10.2307/3241967|The gaseous SO
10.2307/3242118|Calymperes rubiginosum (Mitt.) Reese is a new combination. Its basionym is Syrrhopodon rubiginosus Mitt. Thyridium rubiginosum (Mitt.) Jaeg., Calymperes rufum Herz., and Macromitrium shankii Crum are synonyms. The distribution of this species includes Brazil, Surinam, Venezuela, and Honduras.
10.2307/3243878|Sphagnum flavicomans (Card.) Warnst. is reported from Maryland and Virginia, with the latter collection representing a southern range extension for this species. Sphagnum girgensohnii Russ. and S. russowii Warnst. are reported from the Maryland coastal plain for the first time.
10.2307/3242882|High performance liquid chromatography was used to assess the levels of secondary products extractable from thalli in each of four stands of Cladina stellaris (Opiz) Brodo. In each location there were highly significant differences among thalli with respect to perlatolic acid and usnic acid. Homogeneous subsets of thalli within each stand were identified by the use of Duncan's New Multiple Range Test. Since the coefficients of variation were no lower in sites where environmental conditions were apparently uniform than they were in obviously variable sites, it is suspected that the observed intrastand variability in lichen chemistry was a reflection of innate differences among thalli. In three of the four sites there was no indication of a correlation between the levels of usnic and perlatolic acids.
10.2307/3242248|Eighty-five species of lichens are reported from Calaveras Big Trees State Park, California; seven taxa are new to the state.
10.2307/3242108|Publication of a new North American Sphagnum exsiccata is announced. Fascicle 1, consisting of 50 numbers, is published concurrently with this publication.
25614869|Stumps from the last felling constitute a large proportion of dead wood in young managed forests. Yet, the knowledge of the diversity of stump-inhabiting organisms is poor. We studied the importance of substrate age and quality to lichen and bryophyte diversity on the cut surface of stumps in south-central Sweden. In total, we found 53 lichens and 35 bryophytes on 449 Norway spruce stumps in a forest stand chronosequence of four age classes: 4-5, 8-9, 12-13 and 16-18 years old stands. The influence of substrate age and substrate quality on species diversity differed between lichens and bryophytes. Lichen species richness was higher for age classes 2-4 compared to age class 1, whereas bryophyte richness was higher in age classes 3-4 than in 1. Further, lichen richness increased with increasing stump height and the presence of surface structural components (chairs and levels), which together with decay also influenced lichen species composition. Conversely, increasing stump height and the presence of levels decreased bryophyte richness, which in turn increased with increasing decay, surface area and number of surrounding trees and shrubs. Only decay explained differences in bryophyte species composition. Stumps in this region seem more important to overall lichen diversity, because there were on average more lichen species per stump and we only found common bryophytes but several uncommon lichens. The different responses of lichens and bryophytes to age and substrate variables indicates, however, the importance of including several organism groups in species diversity studies of dead wood.
10.2307/3240627|New state records for 26 species and two varieties are reported. Grimmia olympica and Bryoxiphium norvegicum were recollected after an interval of more than 50 years. Significant range extensions are reported for Brachydontium trichodes and Oedipodium griffithianum.
20485770|The assembled Physcomitrella patens genome has been released. This provides a unique opportunity to identify and characterize new genes, and to compare moss genes with other plant genes from previously released plant genomes. Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) comprise a protein superfamily of NAD(P)+-dependent enzymes [EC 1.2.1] found in bacteria, animals and green plants capable of oxidizing a variety of aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes. ALDHs are key enzymes of abiotic stress-tolerance in a variety of organisms. In bryophytes, ALDHs are postulated to play a role in vegetative desiccation-tolerance. Using recently available genomic DNA sequence data, we have identified members of the ALDH gene superfamily in the marine picoeukaryote Ostreococcus tauri, the unicellular green algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and the moss Physcomitrella patens. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome has been shown to contain 14 unique ALDH sequences encoding members of nine ALDH protein families. The O. tauri genome contains six unique ALDH sequences encoding members of six ALDH protein families. The C. reinhardtii genome contains eight unique ALDH sequences encoding members of seven ALDH protein families. The P. patens genome contains 20 unique ALDH sequences encoding members of ten ALDH protein families. These three genomes encode members of ten previously identified protein families (ALDH2, ALDH3, ALDH5, ALDH6, ALDH7, ALDH10, ALDH11, ALDH12, ALDH21 and ALDH22) and two novel protein families (ALDH23 and ALDH24). We analyzed a sequence alignment of ALDH deduced amino acid sequences among plants using neighbor-joining and maximum parsimony methods. These analyses demonstrate that 1) at least eight ALDH protein families, as represented in the O. tauri and/or C. reinhardtii genomes were present prior to the evolution of land plants and each of these families have been maintained throughout land plant evolution, 2) novel ALDH families of as yet unknown function have evolved in several lineages of land plants including the mosses and flowering plants and 3) the moss P. patens exhibits a highly expanded set of sequences in three families, ALDH3, ALDH5 and ALDH11.
10.2307/3242008|Six additional species of mosses are reported for Nebraska. These additions bring the current list to 171.
20485806|Schlotheimia consists of two subgenera in the Neotropics: subg. Schlotheimia with exserted capsules and long-campanulate calyptrae; and subg. Stegotheca with immersed capsules and short-conical calyptrae. A taxonomic revision of the 15 accepted names in subg. Stegotheca supports recognition of two species and a new variety. Schlotheimia appressifolia has lanceolate leaves, dentate upper margins, percurrent to subpercurrent costae and elliptical to isodiametric median cells. The names S. crumii, S. emergens, S. fasciculata, S. horridula, S. perserrata, S. puiggarii, S. serricalyx and S. uncialis are synonyms of S. appressifolia. Schlotheimia tecta has broader, oblong-lanceolate leaves, entire to serrulate and irregularly denticulate upper margins, percurrent or shortly excurrent costae and rounded, quadrate, or short-rectangular median cells. The names S. cuspidifera, S. furcata and S. robusticuspis are synonyms of S. tecta. Schlotheimia tecta var. jamaicensis var. nov. differs from S. tecta var. tecta in having linear-lanceolate leaves, consistently entire leaf margins and mostly larger, rhomboidal median cells.
10.2307/3241619| Placomaronea candelarioides, known only from the province of Mendoza, Argentina, is reported for the first time from northern Argentina (Tucumn province) and from Per. 
10.2307/3242300| Fontinalis hypnoides C. J. Hartm. and F. novae-angliae Sull. were cultured at 1, 5, 10, 15, and 20C in flowing water and pool conditions to determine the effect of temperature and flow on rhizoid production and location. Fontinalis hypnoides produced significantly more rhizoids than F. novae-angliae, and rhizoid production increased with temperature in both species. Both species produced significantly more rhizoids in flowing water than in pool conditions. Fontinalis novae-angliae and F. dalecarlica produced specialized stoloniferous branches; these were absent on four other Fontinalis species examined, but present in wild populations of F. novae-angliae. In this experiment, nearly all rhizoids occurred on these branches. Fontinalis dalecarlica was cultured axenically, to illustrate the ability for rhizoids of this species to grow on all sides of the stem in a manner typical of acrocarpous mosses. Four species of wild-grown Fontinalis likewise exhibited this trait. This would permit the plants to attach equally well from any position. A scenario for seasonal adaptations for attachment is presented, suggesting that rhizoid production and attachment require warm temperatures. 
10.2307/3241913|Six species of heathland bryophytes were grown from vegetative fragments. Each species became established to some extent by itself, but a variety of mixtures of species resulted when all six were sown together on different soils and litter types and on peat. It was concluded that mixed stands of bryophytes might be produced at suitable sites provided an adequate supply of propagules was available.
10.2307/3244509|Glycerine jelly is an effective substitute microscopic mounting medium for now difficult-to-obtain gum chloral preparations. It does not collapse most thin bryophyte tissues, preserves color responses of cell walls to potassium hydroxide solution, and is made from easily obtained, non-poisonous ingredients. Like other glycerol-based mountants, it evaporates only very slowly and, with luting, is essentially permanent.
10.2307/3243675|Lecanora subg. Placodium sect. Endochloris Poelt emend. Ryan & Poelt, emend. nov. includes, in addition to Lecanora pinguis Tuck. (the type species of the section), the dwarf fruticose species Lecanora phryganitis Tuck., and two new lobate species that are described from Mexico and southern California: Lecanora pachysoma Ryan & Poelt, sp. nov. and L. xanthosora Ryan & Poelt, sp. nov. Soredia-like or blastidia-like vegetative propagules occur in several members of the section, and considerable chemical and morphological variability occurs in all of the taxa. The section is restricted to coastal taxa from southwestern North America characterized by having elongate spores and containing usnic acid and zeorin in addition to xanthones; the boreal lobate species L. microbola Lamb and L. perconcinna Hue are thereby excluded.
10.2307/3242080|The confusion surrounding Funaria groutiana nom. nov. (F. microstoma var. obtusifolia Grout) and F. arctica (Berggr.) Kindb. is resolved. These two species are widely distributed in the North American arctic and may be separated on characteristics of form of the capsule, twisting of the seta and development of the endostome. Both species are reported from Siberia. Funaria microstoma Bruch ex Schimp. is confirmed from several localities in North America; it can be distinguished from F. groutiana by leaf size and shape, spore sculpturing, endostome development and geographic distribution. The world distribution of F. microstoma is briefly discussed. Lectotypes are designated for the three species. A key to the three species is provided.
20110966|Macromitrium hainanense is described and illustrated as a new species from the Hainan Province of China. This species, belonging to a gymnostomous group of Macromitrium, is most closely related to M. taiheizanense from Taiwan. It is distinguished from all congeners by the immersed and ovoid capsules with exceedingly short setae (ca. 0.2-0.4 mm long), the absence of a peristome, the rounded-quadrate to oblate, pluripapillose upper laminal cells, the elongate and sigmoid-curved, smooth basal cells and the hairy, campanulate-mitrate calyptrae.
10.2307/3240770| Five new species of mosses, Barbula crassicuspis, Orthotrichum sharpii, Brachythecium delicatum, Isopterygium aquaticum, and Acritodon nephophilus, the last representing a new genus, and three new species of liverworts, Lejeunea halei, Pycnolejeunea dentata, and Cololejeunea linopteroides are described. Oreas mexicana is placed in a new subgenus, Pseudoreas, of the genus Hypnodontopsis. A new family, Rhachitheciaceae, is established for the genera Rhachithecium and Hypnodontopsis. Forsstroemia ohioensis is reported from Mexico and F. cuspidata (C. Mll.) Broth. of Paraguay is considered a synonym of it. 
10.2307/3243583|A TWINSPAN analysis based on bryophyte species distribution and abundance divided peatlands in the Mackenzie River Basin into seven types. The analysis also selected seventeen bryophyte indicator species for each division within the classification or for the characterization of the peatland types. The most important environmental and climatic gradients segregating the seven types and the distribution and abundance of indicator species were pH, moss height relative to the surface water table, annual precipitation, and mean annual temperature. Ecotopes of each of the indicator species were analysed using response surfaces in ecological and climatic spaces. The southern limits of most species distributions roughly coincide with the southern limits of the Mackenzie River Basin, whereas the ranges of most species extend into more northerly areas. However, these northern extensions were in habitats other than peatlands; habitats that are not examined in this study. Species with the widest ecological and climatic ecotopes were such hummock species as Tomenthypnum nitens, Sphagnum fuscum, Polytrichum strictum, Dicranum undulatum, Pleurozium schreberi, Hylocomium splendens, and Aulacomnium palustre. The presence of permafrost has created higher peat surfaces than those found in warmer regions, and provides new habitats for hummock species. Lawn and hollow species have narrower ecotope dimensions and become infrequent in peatlands at the northern limit of the study area due to loss of suitable habitats in perennially frozen peatlands.
10.2307/3243026|Discussions that have accompanied biological species definitions often imply correspondence between breeding groups and morphological and ecological units. It is often assumed that the cause of such correspondences is gene flow or the lack of it. This has generated confusion because breeding, morphology, and ecology can be, and often are, uncoupled, and the effects of gene flow may be limited. Another source of confusion has been the failure to distinguish clearly between species themselves (taxa) and concepts of the species category. The biological concept fails to provide unambiguous criteria for grouping organisms (or for assigning species rank), and as a consequence, biological species may not be monophyletic. A phylogenetic species concept, which emphasizes monophyly, is more appropriate for purposes of phylogeny reconstruction, cladistic classification, and the study of evolutionary processes.
10.2307/3243677|The three species of Syringothecium are revised and reduced to two. The genus is considered synonymous with Isopterygium and the two appropriate combinations are made: I. sprucei (Mitt.) Buck and I. brasiliense (Broth.) Buck. The genus is thus transferred from the Sematophyllaceae to the Hypnaceae.
20110816|In the United States Sphagnum portoricense Hampe is a coastal plain species ranging from New York to Florida and Texas, primarily at elevations &lt 100 m. It extends further south into the tropics (from near sea level to 2150 m), occurring in Mexico, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Guyana and the Caribbean (Guadeloupe, Puerto Rico). A recent report of S. portoricense in China is based upon misidentified specimens. The species has a montane distribution in Puerto Rico, being most abundant in the palo colorado forests and cloud forests of the Caribbean National Forest (El Yunque). Although having strong aquatic tendencies on the coastal plain in the United States, tropical populations often occur in wet, but not inundated habitats.
10.2307/3243912|Mitthyridium micro-undulatum (Dixon) H. Robinson subsp. comoroensis Reese subsp. nov. is described and illustrated from Mayotte, Comoros. The subspecies micro-undulatum is also illustrated.
10.2307/3241866|Samples collected during the summer from a lingering snowbed on Bathurst Island in the Canadian high arctic contained large numbers of moss and liverwort gametophyte fragments. For the most part, species represented occur on ridges and slopes immediately adjacent to the sampling site. Accumulation of the fragments and associated plant debris presumably took place during the preceding winter through the action of surface winds. In laboratory culture trials 12% of the fragment sample showed evidence of viability by generating protonemata, new shoots or rhizoids or by otherwise resuming growth. Leaf-bearing gametophore tips of mosses showed the greatest response. No detached moss leaves generated new growth and only one leafy liverwort fragment proved to be viable. Based on the number of fragments in subsample volumes, it is estimated that over 4000 viable propagules occurred per cubic meter of granular snow at the sampling site. These data indicate that some gametophyte fragments are able to function as propagules in nature and that wind dispersal and establishment of bryophytes by vegetative means may be routine in arctic latitudes.
10.2307/3243842|Flavonoids were isolated from gametophytic plants of seven taxa of Plagiomnium section Rosulata, including the two allopolyploids (P. medium subsp. curvatulum and subsp. medium) and five of the six haploids (P. affine, P. ciliare, P. elatum, P. ellipticum, and P. insigne). A total of 22 flavonoids were isolated, most of which were C-glycosides of the flavone apigenin. Also detected were glycosides of the flavones chrysoeriol and luteolin and an anthochlor pigment, chalcone O-glycoside, which represents a first report for bryophytes. Flavonoid profiles based on occurrence of 12 major compounds were species-specific and clustered the plants into three subgroups: 1) the European endemics P. affine and P. elatum, 2) the North American endemics P. ciliare and P. insigne, and 3) the circumboreal P. ellipticum and P. medium subsp. medium plus the high arctic P. medium subsp. curvatulum. A cladistic analysis of these same data was more consistent with prevailing taxonomic views, dividing the section into a "ciliate-toothed" subgroup and a "sharp-toothed" subgroup. Because of high similarity of flavonoid profiles between progenitor species and reduced expression of flavonoids in their allopolyploid derivatives, perfect hybrid complementation was not observed. Nevertheless, flavonoid profiles of both subspecies of P. medium do not contradict their origins as revealed by isozyme evidence.
10.2307/3244444|An enumeration of and key to the nine taxa (eight species and a variety) of Anastrophyllum in western North America are presented. A discussion of distinguishing characteristics and distribution maps of each taxon are provided from specimens examined. Anastrophyllum assimile is new to Alberta, Northwest Territories, and Washington; A. hellerianum is new to the Yukon Territory; A. michauxii is new to Alberta; A. minutum is new to Oregon and Saskatchewan; A. minutum var. grandis is new to British Columbia and Northwest Territories; and A. saxicola is new to Alberta.
25614877|Globulinella halloyi is described from Volcn Socompa in Salta Province of Argentina. It is readily distinguished from congeners by the following combination of character states: robust plants, with costa dorsally and ventrally toothed and with two stereid bands in transverse section, and elongate propagula ca. 200 m long. A description and ilustrations of the new species are provided. A table of morphological characters compares the three species of Globulinella.
10.2307/3243266|Polytrichum appalachianum Anderson, sp. nov., is described as a new species. Limited to the southern Blue Ridge Province of the Appalachian Mountains, it has previously been known as P. xanthopilum Wils. [Polytrichastrum xanthopilum (Wils.) G. L. Sm.]. Recently discovered sporophytes from North Carolina, however, show clearly that American plants do not belong to this species, necessitating the description of a new taxon. The new species differs from P. xanthopilum principally in its lack of a bulbous hypophysis at the base of the capsule, the absence of a constriction between the urn and hypophysis, and a less pyriform terminal cell of the leaf lamellae. The new species resembles most closely P. formosum Hedw. and P. longisetum Brid. Its distribution, ecology, and cytology are discussed.
3244945|This paper is a study of the sorediate corticolous species of Caloplaca in North and Central America with notes on similar species from other parts of the world. Of the 22 described sorediate species studied, 13 occur within the study area. The most common and widespread species in this group are C. chrysophthalma and C. microphyllina. Apothecia are often lacking on these sorediate species, in contrast to the isidiate species. A key, color photographs, and distribution maps are provided. Two new species are described as C. alaskensis and C. persimilis. Caloplaca granularis and Caloplaca ulcerosa are reported for the first time from North America. Several lectotypes are designated.
40982955|The species in Lobaria sect. Lobaria are circumscribed based on secondary metabolites and the morphology of vegetative propagules such as isidia and soredia. Lobaria pulmonaria typically forms soredia, which distinguish it from the other species of this section. However, in L. pulmonaria soredia may develop into isidioid soredia that can be confused with isidia. In Macaronesia, this difficulty gave rise to controversial discussion about the taxonomie status of L. pulmonaria var. meridionalis, which forms cylindrical diaspores. In the present study, a three loci approach (ITS, RPB2 and EF-1) was used to investigate the taxonomie status of L. pulmonaria var. meridionalis based on a phylogeny of Macaronesian taxa of the L. pulmonaria group. Phylogenetic analyses reveal that L. pulmonaria . meridionalis is a distinct taxon, which is here proposed at the rank of species: Lobaria macaronesica Cornejo & Scheidegger sp. nov. The new species is genetically distinct from the Asian L. meridionalis, the cosmopolitan L. pulmonaria and the Macaronesian L. immixta.
10.2307/3243993|Lecidea ventosa Vainio has been rediscovered in eastern Siberia and is transferred to the genus Miriquidica.
10.2307/3243713|Chlorophyll concentrations and rates of photosynthetic O
10.2307/3242109|The African lichen species Parmelia (Amphigymnia) lophogena des Abb. shows a continuous variation in its vegetative propagules from coralloid or pustular isidia to coarsely granular soredia. This species is here emended to include P. dolosa des Abb. and P. diacidula Hale.
10.2307/3241560|Collections of Riccia crystallina from a number of localities in South Australia have permitted a critical survey of the species there. The species in South Australia shows similar trends in morphology, spore sculpturing, and spore diameter range per capsule as do European plants. Within the limits of spore diameter recorded for the species, there is shown a negative correlation between spore size and rainfall. Spore morphology provides the most useful taxonomic character of the species.
10.2307/3240900|The formula for a new mounting medium and the technique for its use are given.
10.2307/3242307|Harvester ants, Messor spp., were observed feeding on moss capsules in a winter when no other food sources were available. The ants climbed up the seta, gnawed off the capsules and carried them to their nests. In the semiarid region where this phenomenon was observed, suitable climatic conditions for spore maturation are rare, and feeding of ants on moss sporophytes even more strongly reduces reproduction by spores.
3244693|The gravitropic response of Pellia epiphylla (L.) Corda sporophytes was analyzed using digitized images from infrared video recordings. Lateral transport of radioactively labeled auxin was followed using agar block and liquid scintillation techniques. Upward gravitropic curvature of horizontally oriented sporophytes was detected within 50 to 60 minutes. Growth rates on the top sides of sporophyte setae dropped from 0.53 to 0.29 mm hr
10.2307/3244079|The genus Grimmia in Australia is represented by eleven species. Grimmia macroperichaetialis H. C. Greven sp. nov. from the Australian Alps is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3242533|Twenty-nine species of Musci are reported for the first time from Venezuela, including the first citation for the genus Amphidium.
10.2307/3242033|A number of nomenclatural problems including the validation of the following 11 new combinations of names are resolved: Barbula microstoma, B. recurva, B. vardei, Homalothecium euchloron, Lescurea laevifolia, L. ramuligera, Platydictya jungermannioides, P. subtilis, Thamnobryum parvulum, T. schmidii and T. suberiatum.
10.2307/3242715|Sphagnum carolinianum sp. nov. is a Cuspidata-like Subsecunda of the southeastern United States coastal plain. It differs from S. lescurii in its multi-layered stem cortex and stem leaves with hyaline cells possessing two or more parallel septations. Sphagnum crispum sp. nov., a rare taxon of the western North American mountains, resembles S. subsecundum but has poorly developed branch leaf porosity and a very distinctive crisped aspect when dry.
10.2307/3242420|The contents of Cd, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, V and Zn were determined in epiphytic Pterogonium gracile (Hedw.) Sm. collected from 10 different years during the period 1944-1976 from the same phorophyte in a rural background area in Denmark. A significant increase was observed in the content of Pb, V and Zn, 155%, 51% and 28%, respectively, and the periods of time required to double the 1944 level were 20, 60 and 110 years, respectively. Increasing trends in content were found for Cu, Cr and Ni, whereas Cd showed no such tendency. The contents of Fe and Mn showed decreasing tendency during the period in question, but this can be ascribed to local conditions. The ratios between the content of the various heavy metals in bryophyte tissue and in bulk precipitation were approximately identical for all metals examined. No effect of the different bonding affinity to bryophyte tissue for the different elements was observed.
10.2307/3242443|The distribution of Funaria americana Lindb. is middle and eastern North American. Reports from western North America are excluded. The species appears to be a strict calciphile with a distribution that corresponds to Pleistocene glacial and postglacial phenomena.
3244928|The South African hepatic, Lepidozia succulenta Sim, currently placed in Telaranea, is a Paracromastigum of the Bonneria-group, characterized by both Frullania- and Acromastigum-type terminal branching, succubous leaves, the insertion of which does not extend to the stem midline, and the dorsal cortical cells broadly exposed.
20110752|In a publication dealing with species from Mt. Roraima on the Guyana/Venezuelan border, Mitten described Aneura polyclada Mitt. (Chile), A. polyptera Mitt. (Chile) and A. denticulata Mitt. (Colombia). These valid names represent taxa of the genus Riccardia. Aneura polyclada has priority over Aneura umbrosa Schiffn. & Gottsche, and should be transferred to Riccardia as Riccardia polyclada (Mitt.) Hssel comb. nov. Aneura polyptera is conspecific with the older Riccardia fuegiensis C. Massal. The type specimens of A. polyclada and A polyptera have been located at the BM herbarium. The type of A. denticulata has not been found and its identity could not be confirmed.
20110870|Three species of Candelariella in western North America, characterized by biatorine apothecia, are treated. Two new species are described, C. biatorina and C. lichenicola. Candelariella biatorina is a corticolous species growing in montane conifer forests in western North America. Candelariella lichenicola, described from northwestern Mexico, is a lichenicolous fungus that lacks an independent thallus and the apothecia develop on the thallus of Candelina submexicana. The third species, C. subdeflexa, is a rare species on bark in Arizona, Colorado and Utah in western North America. Macroconidia are described in the Candelariaceae for the first time in C. biatorina. In C. subdeflexa conidia are borne externally on the lower side of the thallus squamules. The distribution of the three species in western North America is mapped.
10.2307/3242378|Radial growth of Parmelia caperata (L.) Ach. in southeastern Ohio was measured during quarterly intervals over a period of three years. Mean yearly growth was 4.28, 3.45 and 4.30 mm for the three years of study. Available moisture appeared to enhance the growth of this lichen.
25614874|Well-developed thalli of Erioderma mollissimum have been found on the island of Newfoundland. Previously reported collections from other areas of Atlantic Canada, and from high elevations in the southern Appalachians, were small and poorly developed. It had been suggested that these might represent a distinct, undescribed species. However, the morphology and chemistry of the collections reported here confirm the identity of the Newfoundland population as E. mollissimum.
10.2307/3242935|This paper reports spore output per capsule in 15 members of Marchantiales collected from Pachmarhi. Mean output per capsule ranges from 180 in Riccia fluitans to 21,200 in Demortiera hirsuta.
10.2307/3244102|Didymodon sicculus sp. nov. is described and illustrated from southeastern Spain where it occurs on saline and gypsiferous soils. The new species is similar in habit to D. luridus Spreng., but differs in having leaves with smaller upper cells, rectangular basal cells, margins recurved from near the apex to the base, and quite papillose laminal cells.
10.2307/3243430|Lichens were surveyed at four study areas along a wet sulfate deposition gradient in north-central Pennsylvania. Species richness was significantly less in high sulfate deposition areas than in low sulfate deposition areas. Although the causal agents for these differences are not known, it is hypothesized that SO
10.2307/3241187|Six species of hepatics are reported as new to the flora of Texas.
20110879|The lichen Bacidia lobarica Printzen & Tnsberg is described as new to science. Within the genus Bacidia the species is unique in being completely leprose and in producing the depsidone lobaric acid. Bacidia lobarica is so far only known from the southern Appalachians and the Piedmont of North Carolina where it is corticolous on hardwoods.
20110753|Zygodon bistratus, a new species from Spain in the Iberian Peninsula is described. The small size, partially bistratose leaf lamina and the upper laminal cells with tall, forked papillae are distinctive features for this species.
10.2307/3242807|Lichens on trees bordering a small stream in south-central Florida show a sharply delimited lower limit of growth. Changes in the height of this "lichen line" could be correlated with successively higher flood stages over a two-year period. Lichens are killed off by submergence of a few days but begin to recolonize within a year if no further flooding occurs.
10.2307/3243843|Orthothecium hyalopiliferum sp. nov. is described from Sichuan, China.
10.2307/3241083|New state records or verifications are reported for five species.
3244337|Sphaerotheciella koponenii P. Rao, sp. nov. is described from Hunan Province, China. It appears closely related to the American S. pinnata (B.S.G.) Manuel, but has different costae in the perichaetial leaves, different capsule shape and exostome ornamentation, and entire to crenate apices of the stem leaves. The new species is illustrated and a key to all species of the genus is presented.
20110921|Bryophyte metapopulations and the maintenance of bryophyte diversity heavily depend on species specific habitat and landscape characteristics. But the relationships between age structure of bryophyte populations, habitat characteristics and bryophyte diversity are not well known. We investigated the age structure of liverwort populations of Frullania dilatata, Metzgeria furcata and Radula complanata in relation to phorophyte preferences and epiphytic diversity of bryophytes and macrolichens. The results demonstrate that broad-leaved willow shrubs (primarily Salix caprea) are most preferred by these liverwort species and that these favorable phorophytes largely account for the coccurrences of liverwort species in contrast to other phorophyte species. The liverworts show rather strongly aggregated distribution patterns. However, from ecotope level towards community level a change in association patterns occurs, suggesting that these species prefer similar habitats but occupy different microhabitats. The age distribution of the metapopulations is linked with the developmental stage of the habitats. The local frequency of the liverworts increases as the age of the population increases until the population is about 5-6 years. Also the suitability of habitats for these liverworts is temporally limited in the study area. After colonization of new habitats a lag phase of one year is hypothesized during which the species in general do not fully reproduce themselves.
20061115|The Sphagnum subsecundum complex includes a group of closely related, morphologically intergrading species in section Subsecunda. Nucleotide sequences from six genes (four nuclear and two chloroplast) were obtained from 74 populations representing all the putative species in this complex (S. denticulatum, S. inundatum, S. lescurii, S. subsecundum) to determine if the morphologically-defined taxa represent genetically distinct units. Sampling included populations from North America, Europe, and Asia. Parsimony analyses resolved two major groups of populations, one containing only North American plants (plus one from northern Russia) and the other containing all but two of the European samples, a few from North America, and one from Japan. Two of the four morphospecies occurred in both groups. Shimodaira-Hasegawa (SH) tests indicate that monophyly of S. inundatum, S. subsecundum, and S. lescurii can be rejected, whereas monophyly of S. denticulatum cannot be rejected with our data. Intragenic recombination was detected in both groups of populations, but was substantially higher in the "American" group. Because recombination calls into question the applicability of character-based phylogenetic methods, including parsimony, molecular similarity among populations was estimated using neighbor-joining. Neighbor-joining also resolved geographically correlated groups and corroborated the conclusion that morphologically defined species do not form genetically coherent groups. Groups of populations more closely reflect geographic than morphological patterns.
20110791|In its native Europe, the lichen Lecanora conizaeoides is an obligate acidophile: it always grows on substrates with a low pH. Its notorious, rapid spread through Europe in the 20th century followed an increase in atmospheric sulfur dioxide pollution that artificially acidified many substrates on which this lichen would normally never occur. During the last 50 years, this species has appeared in several scattered, coastal North American sites. In 2000, a new population was discovered in an Atlantic white cedar swamp in eastern Massachusetts; subsequently, three additional rural populations, as well as three suburban populations, have been found in the area. Specimens from these seven populations are morphologically and chemically indistinguishable from other North American and European specimens. Substrate pH measurements reveal that, with one exception, all substrates colonized by L. conizaeoides in eastern Massachusetts are highly acidic (pH &lt 4), thus demonstrating that this lichen is behaving as an acidophile, just as it does in Europe. At the four rural sites, L. conizaeoides displays an almost singular affinity for Atlantic white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides), growing on its wood and, less frequently, its bark. But at the three suburban sites, this lichen colonizes the bark of various tree species, most of which give pH values noticeably lower than at the rural sites. The acidification of these tree species at the suburban sites cannot be explained by high concentrations of atmospheric sulfur dioxide, however, because these concentrations have never approached the levels recorded in Europe during the spread of this lichen there. All our observations suggest that, in eastern Massachusetts, L. conizaeoides established itself first in rural Atlantic white cedar swamps, and is subsequently spreading to other, suburban sites which contain sufficiently acidic substrates. This pattern of invasion is strikingly similar to that hypothesized for Europe by Wirth (1985), who suggested that L. conizaeoides originated in Pinus mugo bogs, from which it gradually expanded into more urbanized areas.
10.2307/3242249| Callicosta C.Mll. is the correct name for the moss genus long known as Pilotrichum P.Beauv. Fifteen of the twenty recognized species have not previously been given names in Callicosta, and the appropriate combinations are made. 
20110885|A moss fossil in Burmese amber is described as a new genus and species, Vetiplanaxis pyrrhobryoides. Previously the specimen was misidentified as Hypnodendron, based partially on a misinterpretation of laminar areolation. The age of the Burmese amber is Middle Cretaceous, not Eocene as previously believed, making this one of the best preserved and potentially most informative moss fossils known from the Mesozoic. The specimen has morphological affinities to some Bryalean and proto-pleurocarpous groups, but cannot be securely placed in any extant family.
10.2307/3240583|One hundred twenty-six taxa are reported from an interior region of the Northwest Territories where the lichenology is little known.
10.2307/3244222| We used horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis to examine genetic similarities among 24 species of the Polytrichaceae. Mean genetic identity between species ranged from 0.281 to 0.998. Species of Oligotrichum and Pogonatum were genetically similar to their congeners and clearly differentiated from the other taxa. Species that have traditionally been placed in Polytrichum on the basis of their morphological characters were separated genetically into three groups. The first two groups included taxa commonly recognized in Polytrichum sect. Polytrichum and sect. Juniperifolia. The third group consisted of some, but not all, of the taxa sometimes placed in the segregate genus Polytrichastrum. A duplicated locus in all species of Polytrichum sensu stricto supports the uniqueness of this group vis--vis Polytrichastrum and other taxa. Polytrichastrum alpinum, the type species for the genus, was quite dissimilar genetically from other taxa commonly placed in the genus. This was also true for P. sexangulare, which showed high genetic affinity to a morphologically similar taxon commonly placed in Pogonatum. 
10.2307/3241124|Fifty species of hepatics are reported from the Lolo National Forest, Montana. Eleven are new to the state.
10.2307/3244359| A new amino acid solorinine [1] having a quaternary ammonium structure that we had previously isolated from the lichen Solorina crocca (L.) Ach., collected in Canada, was contained in all specimens of S. crocea from Europe and North America as well as from Japan. Solorinine was detected in all species of Solorina and Peltigera, both members of the Peltigeraceae; however, it was not detected in species of the Nephromataceae. Another new amino acid, peltigerine [2], isolated from Peltigera praetextata (Flrke) Vain., was detected only in species of Peltigera. The structure of peltigerine was determined by spectroscopic methods. 
3244749|Fissidens philonotulus Besch., known from the Society Islands and Fiji, is considered to be the same as the widespread and variable F. ceylonensis Dozy & Molk. Fissidens pascuanus Broth., an endemic on Easter Island, is considered to be closely related to F. linearis var. obscurirete (Broth. & Paris) Stone. A lectotoype of F. pascuanus is designated.
10.2307/3241070|Mannitol is reported from the marine lichen Lichina pygmaea for the first time. Other substances present but unidentified in the aqueous alcohol extracts seem to include a second polyacohol, which may be volemitol, in addition to other sugars.
10.2307/3242303|A survey of thirteen species of lichen, ten being from the Stictaceae, revealed that the majority (10) had low carbon dioxide compensation levels ( 25  l CO
10.2307/3243220|Three species constitute Fissidens subgenus Sarawakia. Fissidens beccarii is known from only one site in Sarawak. Fissidens hydropogon is known from a single location in the Ecuadorian Andes, and F. stissotheca is found in southeastern Brazil, Paraguay, and northern Argentina. Three varieties-var. stissotheca, var. immersus stat. nov., and var. brevicostatus var. nov.-are recognized in the latter species. Subgenus Sarawakia is closely related to subgenus Fissidens. Keys, descriptions, and illustrations to the species and varieties are provided.
10.2307/3241337| The new combinations Parmelia attica (Leuckert et al.) Essl., P. applicata (Stiz.) Essl., and P. subglabra (Rs.) Essl., are made. The taxonomy and nomenclature of two isidiate members of the P. prolixa group, P. loxodes Nyl. and P. verruculifera Nyl., are reinterpreted. Parmelia baumgartneri Zahlbr. is a synonym of Cetraria hepatizon (Ach.) Vain. 
10.2307/3241872|Notes on 16 moss species in Newfoundland are provided. Bryum salinum Limpr., Fissidens viridulus (Sw.) Wahlenb., Saelania glaucescens (Hedw.) Bomanss. & Broth. and Seligeria recurvata (Hedw.) B.S.G. are new to the bryoflora of Newfoundland. Distributions of many other species are extended to the southeastern part of the island. A second North American locality is reported for Thuidium tamariscinum (Hedw.) B.S.G.
10.2307/3243790| A fertile specimen of Fissidens fontanus (B. Pyl.) Steud. from Mexico is described and illustrated; F. mexicanus (C. Mll.) Mitt, and F. tuerckheimii (C. Mll.) Broth, are confirmed as synonyms of F. fontanus. 
10.2307/3240826|Confluentinic acid can be identified in fragments of herbarium specimens by microcrystal tests and chromatography. The occurrence of this lichen substance in Herpothallon sanguineum was confirmed by macroextraction. The discovery of a depside in this invariably sterile species of the monotypic genus Herpothallon casts doubt upon the presently accepted taxonomic position of the genus in the Basidiomycetes since all known lichen depsides are restricted to the lichenized Ascomycetes.
10.2307/3242876|There are 69 species and varieties of mosses reported for the Mexican part of the Yucatan Peninsula. These can be grouped into five floristic elements; the Caribbean element with 46 species indicates a close relationship of the peninsular flora with that of the West Indies. The endemic element is virtually absent. In Mexico the distribution of the peninsular flora includes the eastern and western coastal areas, ranging up to the Neovolcanic Belt in the center. This is similar to the distribution of characteristic area climates and vascular plant vegetation. There is no peninsular effect evident in this area perhaps because of continued floristic exchange with mainland Mexico and the West Indies. The small size of the flora may be the result of intense human activity correlated with an undulating topography, absence of surface waterways, rapid drainage of rainfall and reduced number of microhabitats.
10.2307/3242190| The importance and distribution of spruce-lichen woodland in northern Canada is described and fire is documented as being centrally important to the ecology of these woodlands. Thus the "cladonia (C. stellaris (Opiz) Pouz. & Vezda) woodland" simply represents a long-term phase during the recovery sequence following fire, leading ultimately, although rarely, to a closed canopy spruce woodland. The existence of a second lichen woodland type in Canada is described and the possible widespread occurrence of this "stereocaulon (S. paschale (L.) Hoffm.) woodland" north of latitude 60N in the Northwest Territories is discussed. Excessive grazing by caribou is thought not to be an important factor in the ecology of this woodland type. The slow development of the Stereocaulon paschale surface is correlated with the very extreme surface microclimate of burned woodland at this latitude. Although the pattern of net photosynthesis activity in Stereocaulon is closely adapted to the less stressful microclimate of the developing woodland, soil nutrients, pH and snow depth interactions are probably also involved in the ecology of this species. 
10.2307/3241620|The presence of the soluble sugars sucrose, mannose, and xylose is certified in Peltigera sp. and Cladonia pyxidata.
3244659|While people experienced with lichen field work may easily locate hotspots of lichen diversity, other botanists, ecologists, and land managers may not. We sought to describe lichen hotspots in Pacific Northwest forests in terms of forest structure and environment. Additionally, we describe the varying lichen communities of different hotspot types and how the hotspot communities differ from more typical young and old-growth forest stands. A retrospective, blocked design was used with 17 blocks in the Coast Range and the western Cascades of Oregon. Each block consisted of two young matrix stands, one old-growth stand (age > 200 years), and one diversity hotspot. Most diversity hotspots were in riparian zones, but some upland hardwood gaps and rock outcrops were included. We found 117 lichen species in the 68 plots. There was no difference in the average species richness between matrix and old-growth plots, but hotspots averaged five more species than those plots (blocked ANOVA p = 0.001). Eleven species were associated with old-growth plots, 26 were associated with hotspots, and 28 specifically with hotspots in riparian zones. Most old-growth associates were forage-providing alectorioid lichens while most hotspot and riparian zone associates were nitrogen-fixing cyanolichens. Among the hotspots, stands in riparian zones with a large proportion of hardwood trees were found to be optimal for the conservation of many native lichen species that occur infrequently in typical upland (non-riparian) forests.
10.2307/3242936|An easy-to-construct field porometer facilitates rapid field (or laboratory) determination of external capillary water volume held at measured hydrostatic forces (=water potential) in bryophyte colonies. This instrument measures pressure and water volume in the ranges where bryophytes are physiologically active. Construction of the apparatus utilizes materials readily available in many laboratories. Evidence gathered thus far indicates that the filling and emptying curves are characteristic of species, scale, and packing strategy in bryophyte colonies. This instrument makes it possible to test hypotheses relating the differential distributions of bryophytes to clines of water potential and the size of capillary conducting spaces between organs and axes. For the first time, direct field measurement may be taken of the volume of water absorbed and held at hydrostatic pressures characteristic of the external capillary water conducting systems of whole bryophyte colonies.
10.2307/3242279|A taxonomic study of the moss genus Trichodon in North America recognizes one species, T. cylindricus (Hedw.) Schimp., and one variety, T. cylindricus var. oblongus (Lindb.) Podp. The taxa are described, illustrated and their distributions mapped.
23321033|A new species, Lecidella oceanica Lu L. Zhang & Xin Y. Wang, is described here. The new species has been collected from the southwest coast of South Korea and is characterized by small, subimmersed or sessile apothecia, colorless hypothecium and the presence of capistratone, isoarthothelin and thiophanic acid. We also report L. asema is for the first time from South Korea and new localities for L. enteroleucella.
10.2307/3242088|Photochemical activities and
10.2307/3241116| Several kinds of elements take part in the formation of the ascocarps of the Discolichens. Some are primary elements, either carpocentral (= subhymenial net + paraphysoid net) or pericentral (= roof + floor + pericentral muff), that are differentiated from a plexus of primordial hyphae and that all together constitute the primary corpus of the apothecium. This primary corpus grows in diameter, especially by formation at its circumference of new primordial, carpocentral, or pericentral elements, all of which together form a peribase. The primary corpus generally has epicentral filaments, most of them being primary paraphyses, the others remaining extrahymenial. In some species there are added to these primary elements, or substituted for them, secondary ones (i.e., a parathecial apparatus, either typical or not) that, formed by extrahymenial filaments which elongate, branch out and give rise to secondary paraphyses. During the development of the ascocarps several of these elements are built up. According to species, however, many variations are noticed because some elements may be lacking or only transitory or present peculiar characters. Six apothecial types can be distinguished: the "graphidian" type (without secondary elements), the "lecanorian" type (with a typical parathecial apparatus), the Baeomyces type (with a hypocentral podium without secondary formations, but the pericentral floor being changed into a stipitate and capitate podium), the Cladonia type (with a "discopodian" podetium), the Pertusaria type (with polycarpic verrucae), and the Thelotrema type (with a lateral wall furnished with hanging filaments). The first four types form a typological series analogous to the one described by Bellemre (1967) in the nonlichen-forming inoperculate Discomycetes. The two others are anomalous types which are difficult to explain. 
10.2307/3243653|Sphagnum flavicomans (Card.) Warnst. is reported from three sites in the Southern Appalachian Mountains. These sites include the highest elevation of occurrence (~ 1,878 m) and the southernmost location for this species. The occurrence of S. flavicomans in such highly non-oceanic environments is surprising and indicates that the species has a broader environmental tolerance than previously believed.
10.2307/3242514| Polytrichum commune Hedw. spores were analyzed quantitatively and shown to contain the following carotenoids: carotenes (555.98  11.6 g/g spores), violaxanthin (77.37  1.9), lutein (+ antheraxanthin) (622.49  12.4), neoxanthin (313.88  12.3) and zeaxanthin (185.25  7.3). 
10.2307/3241673|Haplomitrium hookeri (Sm.) Nees is reported from the alpine regions of coastal western North America from northern Washington to southeastern Alaska. The species is locally abundant in alpine heather meadows or upon exposed mountain ridges and sporophytes are frequent. In some high-alpine habitats susceptible to seasonal desiccation, the leaves of the plants are imbricate and compact clones up to several centimeters in diameter occur regularly. Two-celled slime papillae are common throughout the plants and secrete protective coatings in regions of young growth and development. Chlorophyllose cells contain a mixture of fusiform, lunulate, spheroid, and triangulate oil bodies. The larger oil bodies are frequently formed of numerous small spherules.
10.2307/3240634|Collections of Anzia ornata (Zahlbr.) Asah. are reported from Winston, Shelby, and Tallapoosa Counties, Alabama.
10.2307/3241754|Eighty taxa of liverworts, including five not previously reported from the region, are listed from an area of approximately 11,520 km
10.2307/3243409|We tested the hypothesis that establishment of Splachnum gametophytes is limited to neutral substrates by examining the effect of hydrogen ion concentration on spore germination, protonemal growth, and gametophore production in Splachnum ampullaceum, S. luteum, and S. sphaericum. Decreased germination was observed in S. sphaericum spores grown at pH 4 as compared to pH 7. Splachnum ampullaceum and S. luteum, however, exhibited no spore germination response to pH. Protonemal growth and gametophore production were inhibited at pH 4 compared to pH 7 in all taxa. Numbers of cells and protonemal branches per filament, chlorophyll a content, and total protein content were significantly reduced at pH 4. In addition, dark oxygen uptake was higher and light-dependent oxygen evolution was lower in protonema of S. ampullaceum grown at pH 4. In vivo [
3244344|Culbersonia americana, a new foliose lichen genus and species, is described from the mountains of Arizona and Peru. Although it has a unique set of identifying characters and apparently belongs to the family Physciaceae, all the material seen so far lacks apothecia, and evidence for familial placement for now remains inconclusive.
10.2307/3243969| Ten species of Calymperes and 13 taxa of Syrrhopodon, collected recently by William R. Buck, are reported from a small area in French Guiana, pointing out the high diversity of these genera in a restricted area of moderate elevation. Calymperes guildingii, C. mitrafugax, C. rubiginosum, C. smithii, Syrrhopodon cryptocarpos, S. hornschuchii, and S. prolifer var. papillosus are reported new to French Guiana. The sporophyte of S. incompletus var. lanceolatus is described for the first time, and that of S. graminicola is described for the first time since the species was described in 1848 (as C. disciforme C. Mll.). A fourth collection of the extremely rare S. elatus is reported. 
40732293|The macrolichens are a conspicuous component of the montane rainforest of Gran Piedra, Santiago de Cuba. This study aims at comparing the species composition, frequency and cover area of epiphytic macrolichens between the north and south slopes, as well as to determine the variation in species composition and frequency of epiphytic macrolichens in communities along and around the tree trunk. Six plots were sampled; three on the north-facing slope and three on the south slope. We found 21 species of macrolichens.Sticta beauvoisiiy Hypotrachyna lineariloba and Pannarla tavaresii are new records for Cuba. Differences were observed in species composition between slopes, whereas neither the species composition nor the frequency changed significantly with cardinal orientation or vertical distribution on the trunk. Heterodermia leucomelaena and Leptogium austroamericanum were considered as indicators of the north slopes, and Cladonia ceratophylla of the south slope.
10.2307/3243694|In the Eastern Brook Lakes Watershed in the Sierra Nevada Mountains of California, over 100 species of lichens were found; at least 30 are new records for California. The majority occurred on granidiorite rock. Analysis of data from 60 line-intercept transects showed that the overall dominant lichens on rock were the Lecidea atrobrunnea and Aspicilia caesiocinerea complexes.
10.2307/3244471|The rare moss Grimmia brittoniae Williams was recently rediscovered at its type locality and discovered at two additional locations, bringing the total number of known locations to four. This distinct moss is restricted to calcareous rock outcrops at low elevations in northwestern Montana, including areas threatened by past and present development.
3244948|A key to the forty-seven taxa in the lichen genus Pertusaria known and accepted from China is presented. The following five species are reported as new to China: P. carneopallida, P. hemisphaerica, P. monogona, P. plittiana, P. pycnothelia, P. trachythallina, and P. xanthodes. Specimens representative of each taxon are cited. Pertusaria albovelata is synonymized with P. velata. Pertusaria huangshanensis S. Yu & J. Wu ex Q. Ren sp. nov. is described.
43188828|Infra-specific variation in phenotypes of bryophytes is rarely shown to be spatially or ecologically structured. By using a morphometrics approach based on more than 2,300 measurements of nine gametophyte characters taken from 63 specimens across the global range of Syrrhopodon leprieurii Mont. (Calymperaceae), we demonstrate through partial and total Mantel analyses that phenotypes vary significantly over distance and elevation. Furthermore, S. leprieurii specimens of montane and spatially isolated (island) regions (such as the Andes and Cuba) exhibit disproportionately greater morphological differentiation over relatively shorter distances when compared to those from lowland rainforests of the greater Amazon basin. Structured morphological variation among bryophyte populations is uncommon and we suggest that, in light of results from studies of other Neotropical plant taxa, more pronounced differentiation in niche structure in this region may account for such variability.
43188696|Evidence for naturally occurring programmed cell death in Marchantia polymorpha tuberculate rhizoids as a function of age is described. Membrane degradation and DNA fragmentation, two major events that occur during programmed cell death, are detected and quantified using Trypan Blue staining and the TUNEL Assay. Membrane permeability and DNA fragmentation both increase as the tuberculate rhizoids aged. Spermine suppressed this response; hydrogen peroxide accelerated it. This research has advanced the study of PCD by demonstrating that nutrient recycling of the thallus and tuberculate rhizoids of Marchantia polymorpha are interrelated.
10.2307/3242567| Fissidens desertorum (C. Muell.) Par., Fissidens grandifolius Broth. & P. Ward., Archidium ohionse Schimp. and Bryum coronatum were collected near the town of Niamey, and are new to the Republic of Niger. 
10.2307/3241731|Orthotrichum epapillosum Lawt. & Herm. is described as a new species from California. It differs from other species with immersed stomata, in its epapillose leaf cells. The calyptra is without hairs and the apices of mature leaves are broad and rounded.
10.2307/3241977|Preliminary analysis of the lipids of the sperm masses of three mosses has been accomplished by thin-layer chromatography. The components in Mnium affine Bland. differ from those in Atrichum undulatum Hedw. P.-Beauv. and Polytrichum attenuatum Mentz., which resemble each other. This situation corresponds to a difference in the physical condition of the extruded sperm masses (coherent in Mnium, dispersed in Atrichum and Polytrichum).
10.2307/3244432| Lobaria oregana (Tuck.) Mll. Arg. and L. pulmonaria (L.) Hoffm. are parapatric in western North America. However, L. pulmonaria is more widely distributed than L. oregana; in western Oregon, L. pulmonaria occurs in the Willamette Valley and forests of the Cascades and Coast Ranges, while L. oregana is largely restricted to the mountain forests. To determine whether distribution patterns are related to differential environmental tolerances, we examined responses to heat and desiccation and growth responses of transplanted thalli. Heat tolerances were tested by exposing thalli (air-dry or moist) to temperatures ranging from 24-40C (3C intervals) and 25-60C(5C intervals) for 1 hr. Sensitivity was assessed by measuring electrical conductivity of deionized water in which thalli were immersed, which reflects membrane damage. Heat tolerances of the two species did not differ. Lobaria pulmonaria from the Willamette Valley was apparently less desiccation tolerant than L. oregana from upper canopies in the Cascade Mountains. Intraspecific differences in desiccation tolerance depended on the environment from which thalli were collected and were as great as interspecific differences. Thus, differences in distribution between the two species do not appear to be due simply to differential heat or desiccation tolerances. Lobaria oregana from upper canopies in the Cascades grew more slowly than L. pulmonaria from lower tree trunks in the Willamette Valley when both were transplanted to the Willamette Valley for 18 weeks. However, survival of the two species did not differ 9 weeks after transplanting to the Willamette Valley. 
10.2307/3240814|Herpothallon sanguineum, a conspicuous lichen previously thought to reach its northern limit in the United States in southern Georgia, actually ranges north through eastern South Carolina to Smith Island in southeastern North Carolina.
10.2307/3241245|Cladonia yunnana (Vain.) Abb. is reported for the first time from North America.
10.2307/3242819|A review and synthesis of the available literature is presented concerning the structure of the moss gametophyte as it is adapted to the environment and the survival of the moss. New observations are made, when appropriate, and a number of new hypotheses are given. Spore germination patterns, protonemal structure, life span and methods of vegetative propagation are all related to the nature of the habitat. Multicellular spores and swollen protonemal cells are strongly correlated to environments subject to periods of desiccation. Highly specialized protonemata are found in deeply shaded environments; "typical" protonema, with strongly elongate cells, tends to characterize taxa of mesic sites or of terrestrial habitats where moisture conditions are favourable for at least part of most days in the growing season. The gametophore exhibits several growth forms that are environmentally restricted or, in some cases, are apparently moulded by the environment, thus the phenotype is variable. Gemma production in many mosses is vigorous while the gametophore remains vegetative. When sex organs are produced, gemma production tends to be reduced or to cease. Water uptake in the gametophore involves ectohydric and endohydric systems. In ectohydric systems, water movement is influenced by leaf shape, arrangement, orientation and detailed anatomy, to branch arrangement, nature of cortical cells, presence of rhizoids or paraphyllia. Surface ornamentation of leaves, stems and rhizoids are important in habitat specificity. In endohydric mosses, hydrome and leptome systems are sometimes significant in habitat specificity, especialy in the subclass Polytrichidae. Detailed experimental research concerning adaptive significance of moss gametophyte morphology remains scanty, thus most generalizations are tentative.
10.2307/3243353|Eight corticolous and one saxicolous species of Porina from India are discussed. Porina chlorotica var. carpinea (Pers.) Keissler is a new record for India and P. subhibernica Upreti is described as a new species.
10.2307/3243626|The presence of Bryoerythrophyllum ferruginascens (Stirt.) Giac. is confirmed for eastern North America.
10.2307/3241860|In this, the first in a series of papers analyzing the floristic composition and refugial qualities of sandstone canyons in southern Illinois, the bryo-lichen communities of Little Grand Canyon in Jackson County are statistically studied. Sampling was done by mapping the vegetation in 144 quadrats, each 50 cm x 50 cm, along 6 horizontal lines. The 79 species found in the canyon are analyzed for frequency, basal area, relative frequency, relative dominance and importance values. Isopterygium elegans (Brid.) Lindb., Thuidium delicatulum (Hedw.) B.S.G. and Leucobryum albidum (Brid. ex P. Beauv.) Lindb. are the most abundant mosses in the flora, Jubula pennsylvanica (Steph.) Evans and Conocephalum conicum (L.) Und., the most abundant liverworts, and Lepraria membranacea (Dicks.) Vain., the most abundant lichen. Comparison of 6 environmentally different subareas suggests that microclimate affects the distribution of both ubiquitous species like those listed above and more restricted species like Bazzania trilobata (L.) S.F. Gray, Leucolejeunea unciloba (Lindenb.) Evans, Kurzia sylvatica (Evans) Gro. and Plagiochila sharpii Blomq. Overall, 23% of the floristic elements are common throughout the canyon, while 50% are restricted to only one of four distributional subareas. Differences in aspect and vertical stratification appear to be the most significant factors regulating distribution of these restricted species.
20485822|Pertusaria wulingensis Z. T. Zhao & Z. S. Sun sp. nov. is described from collections from Guizhou and Hunan provinces, China. The species is characterised by the pinkish pruinose disciform apothecia, the distinctly zoned margin and the presence of psoromic acid. It is known from mixed evergreen and deciduous broadleaf forest at elevations of 1240-1500 m.
10.2307/3242416|The chlorophyll content of Cladonia arbuscula (Wallr.) Rabenh. thalli and of a Trebouxia phycobiont isolated from Cladina stellaris (Opiz) Brodo increased after the organisms were exposed for one week to an ozone concentration of 0.1 ppm. Concentrations of ozone above 0.1 ppm did not significantly affect the chlorophyll content relative to those of the controls. There were no discernible morphological effects that could be attributed to ozone exposure.
10.2307/3242883|The island of Newfoundland, Canada, has a comparatively diverse moss flora, consisting of 445 species. There are substantial differences between its flora and those of adjacent regions: Labrador to the north, and the Canadian Maritime Provinces to the southwest. Of the moss species found in Newfoundland, 32% (140 species) do not occur in Labrador, and 28% (125 species) do not occur in the Maritime Provinces. Sixty-one species (14% of the moss flora) present in Newfoundland do not occur in either Labrador or the Maritimes. The strong bryogeographic isolation of Newfoundland indicates that the origins of its moss flora may have followed a more complex pattern than in neighboring regions. Dispersal of mosses to and within northeastern North America is discussed, and Newfoundland's critical position in this regard is assessed and discussed. Possible ways in which species have increased or decreased their distributions since the last glaciation are also discussed.
10.2307/3243722| The Campylopus flora of Hawaii consists of nine species, six of them previously regarded as endemic. Recent taxonomic revisions reveal that several so-called endemic species are synonymous with species widespread in southeast Asia. Campylopus skottsbergii Broth. is synonymous with C. hemitrichius (C. Mll.) Jaeg., which is here treated as a new subspecies of C. schmidii; C. fumarioli C. Mll. is a synonym of C. laxitextus Lac.; and C. boswellii (C. Mll.) Par. is identical with C. crispifolius Bartr. Campylopus hawaiicus also occurs in New Caledonia and Tahiti where it had been described as C. rubricaulis Broth. & Par. This reduces the level of endemism of Campylopus in Hawaii to 30%. Of the nonendemic species, three are widespread in southeast Asia, three have a narrower Indonesian-Malayan range, and one is distributed in Oceania. Thus Hawaii has been colonized by species of Campylopus from southeast Asia. The endemic species show no apparent relation to and cannot be derived from any other ancestral species of Campylopus. Their origin remains therefore doubtful. 
10.2307/3243346| A common species in eastern Asia, Ptychomitrium polyphylloides (C. Mll.) Jaeg. is synonymous with P. gardneri Lesq. from western North America. Ptychomitrium leibergii Best, from North America, is synonymous with P. sinense (Mitt.) Jaeg., which is widespread in eastern Asia. Both P. sinense and P. gardneri have disjunct East Asian-North American distributions. These two species are nearly sympatric in eastern Asia, but one occurs in dry forests of western North America while the other is confined to dry areas of south-central North America. 
10.2307/3242587|Leucophanes is a genus of mainly palaeotropical turf forming mosses. Populations consist of acrocarpous, branched or unbranched gametophores. In the latter, the turfs are formed by layers of individual plants each attached by rhizoids to the plant beneath it. These fully grown epigametophytic plants are of the same gender as the supporting plant. It is suggested that this particular growth habit is an adaptation to continue turf existence by the development of various strategies of vegetative reproduction, e.g., germination of leaf tip gemmae and readily detachable short branching systems. This is of importance in species for which sexual reproduction has not been demonstrated and which have few or no subterminal innovations. Growth habit and structural features displayed by the gametophytes of Leucophanes are also adaptations for water retention. It is most likely that the life-form characteristic of this genus developed in relation to environmental stresses imposed by the corticolous habit in seasonally dry tropical forests.
10.2307/3243150|Eight mosses are reported from Nigeria for the first time. These are Weissia controversa Hedw., Schoenobryum robustum (Broth, in Mildb.) Manuel, Thuidium chenagonii C. Muell. ex Ren. & Card., Entondon geminidens (Besch.) Par., Pylaisiobryum abyssinicum (C. Muell.) Wijk & Marg., Hypnum cupressiforme Hedw., Campylopus hensii Ren. & Card, and Mittenothamnium elegantulum (C. Muell.) Card. All except the last two species are from the Nigerian highlands.
20110750|The concept of transient assemblage dynamics (TAD) is introduced relating to the fine-scale temporal and spatial variability in substrate locations that result in greater unpredictability in bryophyte-microhabitat relationships within certain sites. An analytical test for the occurrence of TAD in a subalpine forest floor bryophyte community is outlined based on a multivariate comparison of within-plot (
10.2307/3244028|Cladonia carneola (Fr.) Fr., hitherto unreported from California, is reported from two localities in the state. Both localities lie at 500 m elevation or less. These localities are widely separated from other populations of C. carneola in western North America, which have been reported from much higher elevations. The relictual presence of C. carneola in unique habitats in coastal California is discussed.
10.2307/3241239|Enlarged sporocytes containing 5-8 spores were detected in about 10% of the sporocytes in two separate gatherings of Dicnemoloma pallidum. These sporocytes may have resulted from fusion of cells without subsequent nuclear fusion and doubling of the chromosome number.
41289803|Rinodina campestris, R. megistospora and R. terricola are described as new to science. Rinodina boleana is recorded for the first time from North America and is compared in detail to R. pyrina and R. imshaugii and all are shown to possess Dirinaria-type spores.
10.2307/3241840|Calypogeia sullivantii, Cololejeunea contractiloba, C. minutissima subsp. myriocarpa, Petalophyllum ralfsii, and Riccia albida are new for Louisiana and Radula bolanderi is new for New Mexico.
10.2307/3242588|A review of recent and historical specimens of Calymperes (Musci: Calymperaceae) from various regions of the Old World tropics, including primarily Malaysia, Oceania, and Australia, reveals only 16 well-defined species, in spite of the numerous names reported from the general area as new species. A key, synonymy, diagnostic features, reference to illustrations, and differentiation from similar species are given for these 16 species, together with an index to all names cited.
10.2307/3243688|Concentrations of ten elements were studied in two morphologically similar species of foliose lichens (Flavoparmelia baltimorensis and F. caperata) that grow on tree bark and granite boulders in Rhode Island, to document the influence of substrates on thallus element content. There were large differences in the concentrations of phosphorus, potassium, calcium, and zinc between F. baltimorensis thalli growing on granite boulders and thalli growing on adjacent Quercus bark. The large differences in calcium concentrations between epiphytic (0.08% Ca) and epilithic (0.73% Ca) F. baltimorensis thalli were due to substrate differences rather than atmosphere or precipitation differences. Concentrations of nitrogen, potassium, calcium, copper, iron, and zinc were higher in F. baltimorensis and F. caperata thalli growing on Q. borealis bark than in thalli growing on Q. alba bark. Comparisons between lichen thalli growing on different Quercus species corroborated the influence of substrate element content on thallus element concentrations for some elements, but not others. Zinc was the only element that was significantly higher in one Flavoparmelia species than the other when both grew on the same bark substrate. Leaching experiments indicated that the ten elements measured were not easily leached from F. baltimorensis thalli and that these thalli did not contain high amounts of soluble surface deposits when collected. Phosphorus (250% higher in winter than summer) and sodium (27% higher in summer than winter) exhibited the highest temporal variations in F. baltimorensis thalli.
10.2307/3242119|Distributional data are presented for 15 species of mosses in Pennsylvania. The occurrence of Hyophila involuta (Hook.) Jaeg. & Sauerb. in the flora is confirmed. Campylium chrysophyllum (Brid.) J. Lange var. brevifolium (Ren. & Card.) Grout is reported for the first time from the state.
10.2307/3242908|Tracer experiments using exogenous
41289813|The lichen species Verrucaria tavaresiae is associated with Petroderma maculiforme, an unusual photobiont belonging to the brown algae. This marine ascomycete has so far been found only on the coast of Central California, although its photobiont has a much broader geographical distribution. Morphological and ecological characters have led a previous author to attribute this marine fungus to Verrucaria, a genus including other species colonizing the intertidal zone of rocky seashores. Phylogenetic inferences from two nuclear and one mitochondrial loci confirm the placement of Verrucaria tavaresiae within the lichen family Verrucariaceae and more specifically within the marine genus Wahlenbergiella. The new combination Wahlenbergiella tavaresiae (R. L. Moe) Gueidan, Ths & Prez-Ortega is therefore proposed here.
10.2307/3242562|Eight mosses are reported from Nigeria for the first time. These are Weissia controversa Hedw., Schoenobryum robustum (Broth. in Mildb.) Manuel, Thuidium chenagonii C. Muell. ex Ren. & Card., Entondon geminidens (Besch.) Par., Pylaisiobryum abyssinicum (C. Muell.) Wijk & Marg., Hypnum cupressiforme Hedw., Campylopus hensii Ren. & Card. and Mittenothamnium elegantulum (C. Muell.) Card. All except the last two species are from the Nigerian highlands.
10.2307/3241497|Low light intensity (5-10 foot-candles) inhibits the production of gemma cups in Marchantia nepalensis. Under 200 foot-candles gemma cups and gemmae are formed; their production is increased by a higher light intensity (600 foot-candles). Sucrose in the medium brings about in situ germination of gemmae, and this effect is enhanced by increased light intensity.
10.2307/3242586|Tayloria hornschuchii (Grev. et Arnott) Broth. is described for the first time as having either axillary or rhizoidal propagula or both and is reported for the first time from the Canadian Arctic Archipelago on Northeastern Ellesmere Island, N. W. T. A gametophytic comparison is made between T. hornschuchii and T. froelichiana (Hedw.) Mitt. to distinguish specimens without sporophytes. Leaf cell lengths prove to be a dependable character, with T. hornschuchii having significantly shorter basal and apical cell lengths. Propagula have never been found on T. froelichiana. North American distribution maps show T. froelichiana as low arctic-alpine and T. hornschuchii as high arctic-alpine.
10.2307/3241899|Lophozia incisa, a fleshy mesophytic hepatic, has a remarkable reaction to desiccation. When dry the fleshy stems become thin, broad, flat and thallus-like, with the much shrunken leaves arranged obliquely on the upper surface. When sterile such dry plants closely resemble Fossombronia. A recent report of two collections of F. foveolata from central Alaska is based on the dry state of L. incisa, which may be identified by its ability to regain its normal morphological characteristics when moistened and by the presence of lophozioid gemmae, a feature lacking in Fossombronia.
3244694|The new genus Kachbrenneriella Diederich & M. S. Christ. is described to accommodate the lichenicolous hyphomycete Torula cyanescens Kalchbr., and the new combination K. cyanescens (Kalchbr.) Diederich & M. S. Christ. is proposed. As the type specimen is considered to be lost, a neotype is designated. The fungus forms a whitish tomentum on Usnea thalli, composed of erect conidiophores on which hyaline, catenate conidia develop, and is known from Europe, Canada, and Papua New Guinea.
10.2307/3241412|The Raymond E. Hatcher collections of Hepaticae and Anthocerotae (413 specimens) are reported from the following areas in the Magellanian region of Chile: 1) a deciduous Nothofagus forest, 2) an ecotonal area between evergreen and deciduous forests, and 3) an evergreen Nothofagus forest. Several new southern range extensions are discussed. Cephaloziella gemmata Engel is described as new and Leptophyllopsis irregularis (Steph.) Engel is a new combination.
3244686|Chaenotheca nitidula is described as a new species from northeastern North America. It is characterized by long, shining stalks; rather small, spheric, non-pruinose capitul; immersed thallus; and its association with Stichococcus as photobiont. In a phylogenetic analysis based on rDNA ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 sequences, C. nitidula was most closely related to Chaenotheca gracilenta and C. gracillima. It occurs on wood of conifers in old woodlands and has so far been recorded from Maine and New Brunswick.
40982984|The terricolous Acarospora orcuttii is described from three historical collections from San Diego in 1883 and 1884 by C. R. Orcutt in the Farlow Herbarium. The species looks similar to A. fuscescenSy but differs in the absence of gyrophoric acid, thinner paraphyses as well as several other characters. The species may be extinct. Terricolous lichen habitats are rare and threatened throughout coastal southern California. It is hoped some remaining populations may be discovered.
20110796|Barbula santessonii E. B. Bartram and B. fusca Mll. Hal., two neglected South American species are transferred to the genus Didymodon Hedw. Both species are described and distinguished from closely related species with which they may be confused. Each species is illustrated for the first time and its distribution mapped. Barbula fuscoviridis Broth. ex Thr. is synonymized with Didymodon fuscus.
10.2307/3243006|Germination responses of Sordaria fimicola and Cladonia cristatella ascospores were observed in the presence of three pure lichen acids on buffered media ranging in pH from 4 to 7. Acetone solutions of either vulpinic (VUL), evernic (EVE) or stictic (STC) acid were poured onto buffered agar at a concentration of 2.7 x 10
41486737|Hypothetically, the alpine and high elevation moss flora reached central Mexico by migration from northern latitudes following the western mountain ranges. Study of 774 specimens belonging to eighteen species of Grimmia identified four patterns of distribution in Mexico: species restricted to the Neovolcanic Belt, those mainly distributed in the northwestern states, widely distributed taxa, and endemic species. Track analysis showed that the generic distribution indeed followed the western mountains. Modeling was introduced to determine the potential ranges for most Mexican species of Grimmia and review the migration hypothesis. The resulting potential distribution maps using maximum entropy show that several species have discontinuous ranges in the northwestern states. Other taxa are restricted to the Neovolcanic Belt, and still others extend their potential distribution to stations in southern Mexico and Guatemala. Although the original hypothesis proposed that the high altitude moss flora was derived from temperate North America may still be acceptable, the South American distribution of various species indicate that migration may have also proceeded from the south.
10.2307/3244184| A complete list of the liverworts known from Xinjiang, China, comprising 28 genera and 56 species, is presented. Eleven genera and 30 species are new to Xinjiang, and five species, Cephaloziella hampeana (Nees) Schiffn., Asterella saccata (Wahl.) A. Evans, Riccia cavernosa Hoffm., Lophozia chichibuensis Inoue, and Lophozia jurensis K. Mll, are new to China. In addition, two species - Porella platyphylla (L.) Pfeiff. and Tritomaria exsectiformis (Breidl.) Loeske var. exsectiformis - are new to Kazakhstan. 
10.2307/3240807|The ground cover of bryophytes and lichens of 14 spruce-fir stands in coastal Maine was sampled by a line-intercept method. One hundred four species in 54 genera were found. They formed an average composite cover of 34% of which, in decreasing order, the most important were Calliergonella schreberi, Dicranum spp., Bazzania trilobata, Ptilidium spp., and Hylocomium splendens. The percentage of the ground covered with bryophytes and lichens varies widely among the stands and within individual stands.
10.2307/3242620|Previously known only from collections by E. Almquist in 1879 on the Vega Expedition, Staurothele discedens (Nyl.) Zahlbr. and Gyalidea lecideopsis var. convarians (Nyl.) Vezda are reported from new localities in northern Alaska. Polyblastia cucurbitula sp. nov., sometimes associated with them, occurs also in Alaska, British Columbia, and Yukon.
10.2307/3243178| The objective was to explore the range of isozymes detectable in two stands of Cetraria arenaria Krnef. established in stabilized sand dunes along the eastern shore of Lake Huron. Proteins in crude extracts were separated by isoelectricfocussing and tests were made for peroxidase, catalase, esterase, carbonic anhydrase, acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase and glutamate dehydrogenase activity. Some gels were stained also with Coumassie Brilliant Blue, a general protein stain. Storage of acetone-extracted thallus pieces at -20C for as long as 10-12 months had little effect on the isozyme banding patterns. Most of the bands appeared to be common among samples collected in the same stand, but some notable within-stand differences were observed with respect to esterases and acid and alkaline phosphatases. Only minor quantitative differences in proteins were observed between the two stands. 
10.2307/3241367|Buxbaumia piperi Best, found in Humboldt and Siskiyou Counties, is reported from California for the first time.
10.2307/3240781|Column chromatographic separation of the constituents of Ramalina paludosa B. Moore yielded atranorin, usnic acid, cryptochlorophaeic acid (1.1%), and a new lichen substance, paludosic acid (0.097%). The new substance can be distinguished microchemically from the related compounds cryptochlorophaeic acid and merochlorophaeic acid. Spectral evidence and the hydrolytic degradation products identified by thin-layer chromatography indicate that paludosic acid is 4-O-demethylmerochlorophaeic acid, a lower homologue of cryptochlorophaeic acid with which it occurs.
10.2307/3244407|We monitored growth (as change in biomass) of Lobaria pulmonaria for approximately 3 years in western Oregon, re-weighing thalli eleven times over the 3 years. Thalli were grown as pendant transplants in a Fraxinus latifolia forest. Most transplants survived for the full 3 years, with only 12 out of the 60 thalli missing by the end; another 9 were eliminated from the data set due to breakage. While growth rates were highly variable most thalli grew rapidly; mean biomass increases were 28%, 47%, and 69% over the first one, first two, and all 3 years, respectively. Growth rates were not correlated with starting sizes of transplants, which ranged from 0.18 to 0.56 g, but differences among individuals' growth rates were consistent over time. Growth rates were strongly seasonal. Thalli did not grow significantly during summer and early fall, which are dry seasons in the study area. Thalli grew throughout the wet seasons (November to June) and, in the year during which growth was measured most frequently, growth rates were maximal in spring, contrasting with our expectation that rapid growth would begin with the onset of autumn rains.
10.2307/3244431|Scanning electron microscope,
10.2307/3241098|New distributional records are given for nine species of lichenized ascomycetes. Eight of the species are reported for North America for the first time: Caloplaca diphyodes (Nyl.) Jatta, Catillaria kansuensis Magn., C. sculpturata Magn., Cystocoleus ebeneus (Dill.) Thwaites, Lopadium fecundum Th. Fr., Parmelia mougeotii (Flot.) Schaer., Porina mammillosa (Th. Fr.) Vain., and Psorotichia minuta Magn.
10.2307/3240897|The chromosome number and meiotic pecularities have been studied for nine mosses: Andreaea rupestris Hedw., n=10; Polytrichum alpinum Hedw. arcticum (Wahlenb.) Brid., n=14; Tetraphis pellucida Hedw., n=8; Ditrichum pusillum (Hedw.) Britt., n=13; Dicranella heteromalla (Hedw.) Schimp., n=13+2-3frs.; Dicranodontium denudatum (Brid.) Britt., n=13; Grimmia doniana Sm., n=13; Tetraplodon angustatus Hedw., n=10; and Brotherella recurvans (Michx.) Fleisch., n=6. Six of these mosses are reported cytologically for the first time. The chromosome number for Tetraphis pellucida in North America is different from that in Finland. The role of one extra heterochromatic large bivalent, in relation to sex expression, is discussed for Tetraplodon angustatus.
10.2307/3243527|Pseudocrossidium steerei is described as a new species from the interandean region from the province of Pichincha, Ecuador.
10.2307/3241465|Plants meeting the general description of Riella americana occur in the states of Texas, New Mexico, California, Chihuahua, and Durango, as well as the republic of Argentina. Evidence suggests that the "species" is more widespread than earlier reported. Experimental crosses between various isolates indicate that all dioecious members of the genus in the Western Hemisphere are part of a single complex. However, in many instances cross-fertilizaation between populations leads not to viable spores but only to initial sporophyte development, followed by disintegration of the contents of the developing capsule. Judged from the basis of reproductive isolation at least three distinct groups exist within the Western Hemisphere. Two of these differ further with respect to habitat and external morphology.
10.2307/3243011|Caloplaca tominii occurs widely in North America as well as in South America.
10.2307/3240607| In Funaria hygrometrica, low temperature (10C) is the critical factor in the induction of sex organs while day length seems to have no effect as long as a certain minimum period of illumination is provided. 
20061140|Increased knowledge of a species overall habitat requirements is important for enhancing the outcome of any conservation effort. The present study identifies habitat and substrate characteristics associated with high vitality of both core and fringe populations of the suboceanic species Platismatia norvegica. Platismatia norvegica was surveyed at four oceanic sites in central Norway, and at five sites in Sweden situated on the suboceanic fringe of the species' distribution range in Scandinavia. The study has shown that close proximity to watercourses is essential for the occurrence of P. norvegica in suboceanic fringe habitats. Also, results suggest that less acidic bark pH values, especially in combination with close proximity to open water, might be beneficial for the abundance of the species in the suboceanic region, while neither of these factors was of importance for the occurrence of the species in the oceanic core habitats. Also, overall thallus abundances were much higher in the core environments, a pattern which most likely is due to macroclimatic characteristics. While higher bark pH levels in the oceanic region failed to explain the observed differences, there was a good correspondence at site level between abundance and annual wet precipitation. The marginal P. norvegica populations displayed both morphological and distributional responses to the more continental climate. However, close to the watercourses in the suboceanic region, it was found that both thallus abundances and mean values for thallus area surpassed those found in the oceanic region. It is often argued that conservation measures should be concentrated within the distributional core of a species, to achieve an optimal outcome. The present study suggests that, within the zone bordering the streams, conditions for maintaining viable populations of P. norvegica are fully comparable to those in the oceanic region. In view of the scarcity of protected habitats in central Norway, the present study indicates that both setaside protection and restoration of fringe populations can be of great importance to the conservation of endangered suboceanic lichens in Scandinavia.
10.2307/3243528| Among the lichens of southern Ontario are three species new to the North American flora: Caloplaca velana (Massal.) Du Rietz, Rinodina efflorescens Malme, and Strangospora pinicola (Massal.) Krber. In addition, ten species are reported new to Canada, and 63 species are new to Ontario. Parmelia crinita fo. varians Merrill was found to be a synonym of Parmotrema subtinctorium. 
10.2307/3242030|The effects of cadmium on the growth of certain bryophyte propagules were studied. Significant differences over Cd-free controls were observed at applied Cd levels up to 5 ppm on gemmaling growth of Marchantia and spore germination and germ tube elongation of Funaria. Above this level reductions in all three processes were apparent. A similar pattern was observed in respiration rates of portions of mature Marchantia thallus, treated with increasing Cd levels. Results are discussed in mechanistic terms, and the potential phytotoxicity of Cd to bryophytes is related to previous studies with other heavy metals using the same experimental system.
10.2307/3243219|Twenty-six of the species of Fossombronia listed in the Index Hepaticarum are tentatively accepted as good species. Taxonomic notes are given for 63 taxa and micrographs of spores for 18. The following reductions to synonymy are made: F. caledonica Steph. and F. macrocalyx Steph. to F. papillata; F. crassifolia Spruce and F. tenuifolia Spruce to F. pusilla; F. fernandeziensis Steph., F. forsythii Steph. and F. hamato-hirta Steph. to F. wondraczekii; F. mexicana Steph. to F. texana; and F. occidento-africana Arnell to F. indica.
10.2307/3240783|Three modifications of the nomenclature are made-Cetraria coralligera (W. Web.) stat. nov., Parmelia cumberlandia (Gyeln.) stat. nov., and Parmeliopsis halei (Tuck.) comb. nov.-and five new species are proposed-Cetraria culbersonii, Parmelia hypomelaena, P. kurokawae, P. psoromifera, and P. gondylophora. All eight species treated are North American. A key is given to the eight adnate nonisidiate species of Parmelia sect. Xanthoparmelia in North America.
10.2307/3241145|Cladonia delessertii Vain. is to be replaced by C. subfurcata (Nyl.) Arn. and C. alpicola (Flot.) Vain. by C. macrophylla (Schaer.) Stenham.
10.2307/3241865|Sphagnum pylaesii Brid. is reported for the first time from Greenland. Its Greenland localities are in the southernmost region with high summer temperature and high precipitation. Seven collections represent the total series of known forms of the species. Conspicuous refractive membrane pleats in the leaf cells distinguishes S. pylaesii from simplex forms of S. platyphyllum.
20110944|A total of 134 bryophyte species distributed among 92 genera and 45 families (32 liverworts, 2 hornworts and 100 mosses) are enumerated from the region of Yanachaga-Chemilln National Park. For the Department of Pasco, 29 of the 32 liverworts, one of the two hornworts and 82 of the 100 mosses represent new departmental records. Fifteen of the 112 bryophytes are new records to Peru.
10.2307/3244050| Lithothelium japonicum Harada sp. nov. (lichenized Ascomycotina, Pyrenulaceae) is described from Chiba-ken, central Japan. It is characterized by a brownish green endophloeodic thallus, simple perithecia, non-gelatinized paraphyses with oil droplets, and 3-septate hyaline spores (10-14 x 4-5 m) with terminal lumina almost as large as the central ones. 
10.2307/3240803| The validity of Grimmia cinclidodontea C. Mll. (heretofore presumed to be synonymous with G. alpicola) as a distinct species is demonstrated, and notable range extensions for G. agassizii, G. incurva, G. olympica, and G. plagiopoda are reported. The Mexican G. tolucensis Card. is referred to the synonymy of G. incurva. 
10.2307/3240647|The distribution of cryptogams across a ridge-hollow system was assessed by estimating percentage cover along a transect of contiguous quadrats and correlated with exposure to the prevailing northerly wind, winter snow lie, aspect, and inclination. Stereocaulon species are the most tolerant of wind exposure, followed by Rhacomitrium lanuginosum. Rhacomitrium canescens and Cladonia mitis are both associated with late snow lie, the latter species being limited to the most favorable habitats in respect to aspect and inclination.
3244741|The moss Tortula ruralis is an important experimental system for studying the molecular and biochemical mechanisms of vegetative desiccation tolerance in plants. EST searches have identified a cDNA Aldh7B6 encoding a turgor-responsive aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH7). ALDH7B6, the 516 amino acid deduced polypeptide, is more than 60% identical to homologues from the protein family ALDH7. ALDH7B6 has a predicted molecular mass of 55.1 kDa and predicted pI of 5.87. RNA blot hybridizations were used to analyze expression of Aldh7B6 in response to desiccation, NaCl, altered light levels, ABA, & UV-C. Aldh7B6 steady-state mRNA transcript levels are unchanged in response to all treatments and the gene is constitutively expressed. We propose three conserved signature sequences for ALDH7 protein members: 1) the PR-box PAPKRGEIVRQIGD (residues 83-96), 2) the catalytic box FAAVGTAGQRCTT (residues 297-309), and the C-box (residues 424-515 of the carboxy terminus). We postulate that ALDH7B6 plays an important role in the detoxification of aldehydes generated in response to desiccation-stress and propose that ALDH7 homologues are more properly described as "stress aldehyde" ALDHs.
10.2307/3241505|Dactylina madreporiformis (Ach.) Tuck. is reported from the Brooks Range, Alaska. The species has been collected once before in Alaska, probably at Teller on Seward Peninsula.
10.2307/3244059|Total concentrations of Al, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Hg, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pb, Sb, and Zn were compared in the peripheral (younger) and central (older) part of the thallus of the epiphytic lichen Parmelia caperata from a background area of central Italy. The results showed that the trace element content was highly variable. Concentrations were similar for several elements (As, Cr, Fe, Hg, Mn, Ni, Sb). Elements of limited metabolic significance (Al, Cd, Pb) had higher concentrations in the central parts, suggesting that they are trapped in the medulla, while elements essential for lichen metabolism (Co,. Cu, Mo, Zn) had higher concentrations in the peripheral parts, suggesting that they are easily displaced from one part of the thallus to another.
10.2307/3241243|Scopelophila infericola sp. nov. is described from the Sulphur Banks area on the island of Hawaii. Tortula vectensis, collected from Oahu, is new to the Hawaiian Islands. Two additional islands records for Trichostomum oblongifolium are given.
10.2307/3242441|Peristomes of 19 species representing two subgenera of the genus Fissidens were examined using scanning electron microscopy. Seven types of peristomes were distinguished on the basis of variations in the trabeculae and the lamellae of the dorsal and ventral surfaces. These seven types are designated the scariosus-, bryoides-, excurrentinervis-, obtusifolius-, taxifolius-, subbasilaris-and manateensis-types of peristomes. In some instances, species having similar peristome types are gametophytically similar; in other instances species having the same peristome type have different gametophytes. In still other instances, species with dissimilar peristome types have similar gametophytes.
10.2307/3242351|A preliminary checklist of the mosses reported from New Mexico is alphabetically arranged by genus. There are 156 species and 16 varieties totaling 172 taxa from the state in this list.
41289796|We inferred phylogenetic relationships using Bayesian and maximum likelihood approaches for two genera of lichenized fungi, Hypogymnia and Cavernularia (Parmeliaceae). Based on the combined ITS and GPD1 dataset from 23 species (49 specimens) of Hypogymnia and two species (8 specimens) of Cavernularia, we conclude that Hypogymnia is paraphyletic, and that it should include Cavernularia to retain its monophyly. Hypogymnia hultenii (= Cavernularia hultenii) and H. lophyrea (= C lophyrea) are accepted here. Five species of Hypogymnia represented by more than a single individual were found to be monophyletic and significantly supported. The phylogeny reflects a statistically significant biogeographic pattern where continental-scale endemic taxa tend to occur within the same phylogenetic group. Sorediate taxa, which have worldwide or broader geographical ranges than affiliated species lacking soredia, are spread across the phylogenetic tree. Hypogymnia contains three species pairs: H. krogiae and the sorediate counterpart H. incurvoides, H. minilobata and the sorediate H. mollis, and H. lophyrea and the sorediate H. hultenii. In the case of H. minilobata, both members of the pair are restricted to a small area in southern California. In the other two cases, the fertile counterpart occurs only in North America, while the sorediate species occurs in both North America and Fennoscandia. This suggests but not proves an origin of each species pair in North America, with migration of the sorediate member to Fennoscandia following the prevailing wind direction.
41289761|Thalloid liverworts with a complex anatomy and with star-shaped epidermal pores with strongly thickened radial walls in the surrounding cells have traditionally been accommodated within the Cleveaceae, which comprises three genera: Athalamia, Peltolepis and Sauteria. Based on phylogenetic inferences from three chloroplast genes (psbA, rpoC1 and rps4) sampled for 41 accessions, we tested the circumscription and the relationships of these genera, using six species of the Aytoniaceae as outgroups. Four main lineages are resolved, two corresponding to Peltolepis and Sauteria and two composing a polyphyletic Athalamia. The latter is here divided into Clevea and a narrowly defined Athalamia. The traditional definition of genera of Cleveaceae based on two characters (carpocephalum stalk position and anatomy) is rejected and morphological characters defining the genera are re-assessed. A revised generic delimitation is presented, including a key to the genera. Evolution of the genera of Cleveaceae is re-evaluated in the light of molecular results, and the misleading influence of homoplasy on past morphological classifications and phylogenies is discussed.
10.2307/3244224|Chaenothecopsis rubina, C. subparoica, and C. ussuriensis are reported new to North America, north of Mexico. Specimens corresponding to the taxonomically uncertain species, C. parasitaster and Microcalicium conversum, are also reported for North America, north of Mexico. Twenty-two species are reported as new to California, Oregon, or Washington.
10.2307/3243807| Nine species of Arthopyrenia from India are discussed; A. finkii Zahlbr., A. fraxinii Mass., A. grisea (Schleich. ex Schaer.) Krb., and A. indusiata Mll Arg., are new records for India, and A. keralensis Upreti & Pant is described as a new species. 
20110958|A new moss species from northern California, Grimmia torenii Hastings, is described. The species is gametophytically similar to Grimmia ovalis, but sporophytically resembles Grimmia tergestina. Many specimens of Grimmia torenii have leaves with papillate-mammillae, readily separating the species from both G. ovalis and G. tergestina. Similar to G. tergestina the perichaetial leaves are enlarged, broadly lingulate and almost entirely filmy throughout. However, these leaves are abruptly narrowed distally to a subulate apex and the distal laminal cells are distinctly thicker than in G. tergestina. Unlike G. tergestina, the peristome is composed of disarticulated teeth and these are often fused at the base; further, the operculum has bulging cells. Grimmia tergestina is rejected from North America; all reported specimens are either G. ovalis, G. poecilostoma or G. torenii.
20485773|The Santa Monica Mountains, adjacent to the Pacific Ocean just west of Los Angeles, California, have low elevation, high relief and a Mediterranean climate. To date 122 species of bryophytes have been found, especially in the moist drainages. Species that were common (about half of the 122) were compared in terms of microhabitat variables (substrate softness, moisture, slope and shadiness) and in how they distinguished mesosites (varying vascular vegetation types, elevation, parent rock type, distance to the coast and insolation). This constitutes a descriptive comparison of the ecologies of the species in the flora. Acrocarpous mosses, pleurocarpous mosses and liverworts tended as groups to differ in some habitat preferences. Only a few bryophyte species were strong indicators of vascular vegetation type. The diversity of sampled mesosites was to a great extent explicable as a scaling-up of the variety of microsites that each contained, thereby allowing for a diversity of bryophytes in a biome that might generally be characterized as inhospitable.
23321072|Two new Ulota species with multicellular spores, Ulota billbuckii and U. streptodon, are described from southern Chile. The new species are usually found growing together and sometimes forming mixed cushions or mats on different trees, with a preference for Nothofagus betuloides and N. antarctica. The new Ulotae are easily differentiated from each other as well as from other Ulota species with multicellular spores by a set of sporophytic traits including two very uncommon peristome configurations. In this paper, both species are described, and the differences between them as well as from other Ulotae with similar endosporic germination, and from superficially similar species, is discussed.
10.2307/3244556|Multicellular, filamentous gemmae are reported for the first time from Sematophyllum adnatum (Mx.) E. G. Britt. from southern coastal Texas.
10.2307/3244387|Coscinodon arctolimnius subsp. higuchii, a new subspecies from Pakistan and Mongolia, is characterized by its generally cucullate leaves that have long awns and plicae with long cells proximally. In addition, the leaf lamina is shorter and narrower than that of subsp. arctolimnius, a taxon known only from the type locality in the Northwest Territories, Canada.
20485811|Orthotrichum moravicum Plek & Sawicki, sp. nov., is a confirmed record of a new species from the Czech Republic. The new taxon is described in subgen. Pulchella and illustrated by photos. Molecular data indicating the phylogenetic placement of the species are presented, indicating a sister relationship with O. pallens.
10.2307/3241490|The known liverwort flora of the mid-Gulf coastal plain consists of 107 species in 49 genera. This study is based upon the examination of some 5,000 specimens most of which were collected between 1965 and 1968. A brief description-including the salient morphological characteristics as well as the county distribution, habitat, and drawings-is given for each species. Although the keys and descriptions are based upon specimens from the midGulf coastal plain, the general treatment should be applicable to the flora of adjacent regions of the southeastern coastal plain. More than 50% of the species encountered occur primarily in subtropical and tropical regions of the world. The remaining 45% are of widespread and temperate affinities. The few species endemic to the southeastern coastal plain include Anthoceros adscendens, Cephaloziella obliqua, C. rhizantha, Cheilolejeunea parvula, Chonecolea doellingeri, Cololejeunea contractiloba, C. setiloba, Frullania donnellii, Lejeunea calcicola, Plagiochila invisus, P. aspleniformis, P. floridana, Radula australis, Riccia curtissii, R. donnellii, and Sphaerocarpus donnellii. Several new coastal-plain records are established, namely, Blasia pusilla, Chiloscyphus pallescens, Jamesoniella autumnalis, Jubula pennsylvanica, Lophocolea bidentata, and Radula obconica.
10.2307/3240899|Aberrant, conspicuously small gametophytic plants of the moss Polytrichum commune have been induced from spore plantings on media containing naphthaleneacetic acid. These plants have stocky stems, very small leaves, and multiple meristems. They maintain a constancy of form and growth characteristics through repeated transfers.
10.2307/3243942|Syrrhopodon chenii and S. orientalis are described as new species. The former is known only from Guangdong Province, People's Republic of China; the latter also occurs in Guangdong Province, and is known as well from a specimen from Selangor, peninsular Malaysia.
10.2307/3243788|Five species of Hafellia occur in North America; all are corticolous. Hafellia bispora Sheard and H. fosteri Imsh. & Sheard are described for the first time. Hafellia bahiana (Malme) Sheard, H. bahiana var. pleiotropa (Malme) Sheard, and H. callispora (Knight) Mayrh. & Sheard are new combinations. The latter species has previously been confused in the New World with H. parastata (Nyl.) Kalb. Hafellia bispora, H. callispora, H. fosteri, and H. parastata are closely related and characterized by their large spores, brown epithecia, and the presence ofdiploicin and atranorin. Hafellia bahiana possesses smaller spores, a bluish epithecium, and norstictic acid. New combinations are also made for a saxicolous species occurring in South Africa and Australia, H. procellarum (Massal.) Mayrh. & Sheard, and for H. dissa (Stirt.) Mayrh. & Sheard from Australasia, which has previously been confused with H. callispora.
10.2307/3243511| Stirtonia ramosa, a corticolous crustose lichen from the Andaman Islands, contains two new para-depsides, 4-O-demethylsuperconfluentic and 2-O-methylnorsuperphyllinic acids. Chemical structures are proposed from microchemical identification of the hydrolysis products of the depsides and their methyl esters. Both depsides require a phenolic acid precursor with a 9-carbon sidechain, a structural feature only recently discovered in lichen products and now known in the secondary compounds of four species, all of which are crustose. 
10.2307/3242447| Nineteen moss species are new to Oregon. Bruchia bolanderi Lesq., Encalypta brevicolla (B.S.G.) Bruch ex ngstr., Entosthodon leibergii Britt., Ephemerum crassinervium (Schwaegr.) Hampe, Ephemerum serratum (Hedw.) Hampe, Pohlia lescuriana (Sull.) Grout, Polytrichum sphaerothecium (Besch.) C. Muell. and Trematodon boasii Schof. occur here as noteworthy disjunctions. 
10.2307/3244043|Epiphytic macrolichens were sampled in 203, 0.38 ha plots in the Southeast United States. 176 lichen species were encountered. Gradient analysis revealed two major regional gradients in lichen communities. A multivariate model based on non-metric multidimensional scaling was used to assign gradient scores to plots, based on lichen species composition. The strongest gradient in the lichen communities corresponded to a macroclimatic gradient from the coast through the Piedmont to the Appalachian Mountains. The second major gradient was correlated with air quality, with pollution-tolerant species and lower species richness in urban and industrial areas, and pollution-sensitive species and high species richness in cleaner areas. Epiphytic macrolichens were sparse in urban areas with heavy industry. In many rural areas, lichens were luxuriant and diverse. Species richness was locally variable and only weakly related to the coast-to-mountains gradient, with somewhat higher diversity in the mountains and lower diversity on the Piedmont and coast.
10.2307/3241550| The taxonomy, chemistry, and distribution of the species of Dimelaena Norm. in North America are summarized and the relationship of the genus to others in the Buelliaceae discussed. Four species are reported: D. californica (Magn.) Sheard, comb. nov., D. oreina (Ach.) Norm., D. radiata (Tuck.) Hale & W. Culb., and D. thysanota (Tuck.) Hale & W. Culb. A new chemical strain of D. oreina has been discovered in the western mountains. It is characterised by the presence of stictic and norstictic acids and is allopatric with the eastern, fumarprotocetraric acid strain. Two species are excluded from the genus Dimelaena. These are Rinodina angelica Stizenb. and R. chrysomelaena (Ach.) Tuck. Two other new combinations, D. diffractella (Mll. Arg.) Sheard and Lecanora (sect. Aspicilia) stellata (Lynge) Sheard, are made for species from South America and Greenland, respectively. 
10.2307/3241384|The rates of respiration and photosynthesis were plotted as a function of time after adding water to fresh spores of Polytrichum juniperinum. Respiration is limited by hydration, rising to a maximum after 10 minutes. Photosynthesis is limited by more than hydration, In continuous light the rate of photosynthesis is maximized by the time 1.5 hours has elapsed. The maximum photosynthetic capacity can be achieved by dark incubation, also. Experiments with O
10.2307/3241101|A collection of 55 mosses and seven hepatics from Melville Island in the Canadian Arctic includes Brachythecium trachypodium (Brid.) B.S.G., new to the flora of Canada. Scapania simmonsii Bryhn & Kaal. was found with perianths which are described for the species for the first time.
10.2307/3241125|Umbilicaria aprina is reported from two localities on Jensen's Nunatakker, southwestern Greenland. The lichen is known from central Africa, Scandinavia, Greenland, and Baffin Island. The specimens from Greenland are well developed and corresponded very well to the holotype.
10.2307/3242167|The sporophyte of Oligotrichum falcatum Steere is described and illustrated for the first time. The species is now recorded from Arctic Alaska, Yukon, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and Greenland. A map of the known distribution is included. The relationship of O. falcatum to the Himalayan O. semilamellatum (Hook. f.) Mitt. is indicated.
10.2307/3242112|A gas chromatographic analysis of pentane extracts from isolated setae of the liverwort, Lophocolea heterophylla (Schrad.) Dum. reveals a complex assortment of sesquiterpenoids; quantitative differences are observed between extracts prepared before and during seta elongation.
10.2307/3243433|Scanning proton microprobe analysis was used to investigate the spatial distribution of elements at the cellular level in leaf cells of Sphagnum squarrosum Crome. Light micrographs of the areas scanned enabled cell types to be identified and the cellular locations characterised. The scans revealed that iron was bound at high concentrations in extracellular locations. Pretreatment of moss shoots by submersion in 0.5 mM FeCl
10.2307/3243482|The range of Calycularia crispula Mitt, is extended into the Pacific Northwest of North America (British Columbia, SE Alaska, and the Aleutian Islands). Pacific Northwest material is described and illustrated, and differentiated from other regional thalloid genera. Notes are provided on its habitat and species associates.
10.2307/3241644|Cetraria idahoensis is described as a new species from western North America, where it is apparently endemic. It ranges from southern Oregon to western Montana, and in some areas, especially in northern Idaho, is quite common. Endocrocin, an anthraquinone known previously from only Cetraria endocrocea (Asah.) Sato, is found in low concentrations in the medulla of the new species.
10.2307/3241066|Seventeen species of mosses are reported for the first time from the Canal Zone or the Republic of Panama.
41289769|Extant models of long-term ecosystem nutrient status, largely formulated using data from mid-and low-latitude settings dominated by vascular vegetation, predict nitrogen (N) limitation in the early stages of primary succession and phosphorus (P) limitation in the latter stages. The aims of this study were a) to examine the use of mosses to establish ecosystem nutrient status; b) to test an existing model of nutrient limitation during long-term primary succession and c) to assess the connection between nutrient dynamics and the emergence of spatially structured vegetation in a high-latitude, moss-dominated community. Spatiotemporal changes in nutrient availability were inferred using tissue nutrient concentrations in a moss sampled from a long (850-year) chronosequence of lava flows in Iceland. This is the first use of bryophyte nutrient concentrations, even though they should be a good indicator of nutrient status in high-latitude habitats. Samples of the moss, Racomitrium lanuginosum, from different topographic positions were collected from seven lava flows of different ages (26-848 years) and analyzed to establish concentrations of N, P and major mineral nutrients. Concentrations of N were low on all sites and evidence of progressive N accumulation is lacking; increasing concentrations of phosphorus indicated increasing N limitation with terrain age. This pattern contrasts with other studies of long-term nutrient limitation, where N limitation reduces and P limitation increases with increasing terrain age. Concentrations of mineral nutrients did not vary significantly with terrain age. Nutrient concentrations were only weakly related to spatial patterning in the vegetation. It is likely that element concentrations were strongly influenced by inputs of allochthonous sediment. These findings suggest that mat-forming, pleurocarpous mosses may be used to infer long-term changes in N &; P limitation during primary succession and that existing models of nutrient limitation may not be robust over century - millennial timescales in low productivity, high-latitude habitats.
10.2307/3242979|Two new propaguliferous species, P. tundrae J. Shaw and P. andrewsii J. Shaw are described. Pohlia tundrae, a characteristic moss of mesic alpine tundra in the western United States may be endemic to North America. Pohlia andrewsii is recorded from arctic Alaska, the Yukon and Northwest Territories, Greenland, Spitzbergen, Norway and Czechoslovakia. The propagula of P. tundrae and P. andrewsii are structurally similar to those of previously described Pohlia species, but are distinguished by unique patterns of development. Quantitative data indicate that Pohlia tundrae and P. andrewsii are consistently distinct from similar, previously described propaguliferous Pohlia taxa.
40982959|Thirteen species of Polytrichaceae belonging to seven genera are hereby reported from Brazil: Atrichum androgynum, Itatiella ulei, Notoligotrichum minimum, Oligotrichum canaliculatum, O. denudatum, O. riedelianum, Pogonatum campylocarpum, P. pensilvanicum, P. perichaetiale subsp. oligodus, Polytrichadelphus pseudopolytrichum, Polytrichum angustifolium, P. commune and P. juniperinum. Polytrichadelphus organensis and Polytrichum reflexifolium are placed in synonymy with Polytrichum juniperinum, Polytrichum brasiliense with P. angustifolium and P. subremotifolium with P. commune. Keys, descriptions and illustrations are presented for all species.
10.2307/3243050|Syrrhopodon obuduensis Egunyomi & Olarinmoye, is described as a new species from Nigeria. It differs from S. gaudichaudii Mont., the only other known West African species in the section Crispati, by the midrib ceasing just before apex, the toothed leaf margin, the lamina being papillose on the adaxial surface only, and the type of stomate.
10.2307/3242305|Donrichardsia macroneuron (Grout) Crum & Anderson, a rare aquatic moss endemic to the Edwards Plateau and thought to be extinct for nearly 50 years, has been rediscovered from its type locality. Systematic searching of similar areas along the South Llano River failed to produce any new localities. This endangered plant is restricted to extremely rare relictual habitats of rapidly flowing springs over limestone. Culturing resulted in the first observation of antheridia for the genus, but archegonia and sporophytes remain unknown. Results of a numerical taxonomic analysis suggest that the plants are best regarded as a monotypic genus within the Amblystegiaceae.
10.2307/3243345|Eight new species of Ramalina are described from Venezuela: R. andina V. Marcano & A. Morales, R. chiguarensis V. Marcano & A. Morales, R. crispata A. Morales & V. Marcano, R. lopezii A. Morales & V. Marcano, R. microphylla A. Morales & V. Marcano, R. santanensis A. Morales & V. Marcano, R. tenuissima V. Marcano & A. Morales, and R. tovarensis V. Marcano & A. Morales.
10.2307/3242961|Four more North American species are distributed and published herein giving a total of 62 species for Fascicles I-IV. Included is the isotype for Sphagnum andersonianum Andrus. Sphagnum junghuhnianum Dozy and Molk. from British Columbia and its relationships to other Acutifolia are discussed. Sphagnum austinii Sull. is noted as the correct name for No. 189, already issued as S. carlottae Andrus nov. sp.
10.2307/3242257|The mainly tropical Rhachithecium perpusillum (Thwait. & Mitt.) Broth. (Rhachitheciaceae) is known from the southern Appalachian Mountains of the United States as Tortula propagulosa (Pottiaceae). The latter should now be considered a synonym.
10.2307/3242736|A total of 475 taxa of mosses in 134 genera and 35 families is recorded for Peninsular Malaya and Singapore. One genus, Sclerohypnum, and 20 species are considered endemic to the study area. In the checklist, each entry contains information on the state distribution and the source publications. Fissidens laxus Sull. & Lesq. var. javensis (Fl.) Tan & Mohamed, Mitthyridium repens (Harv.) Robins. var. minor (Fl.) Tan & Mohamed, and Oedicladium pseudo-rufescens (Hampe) Tan & Mohamed are new combinations, and Ochrobryum herzogianum Tan & Mohamed and Calymperes dixoconstrictum Tan & Mohamed are new names.
10.2307/3244223|Chaenothecopsis sitchensis and Chaenothecopsis tsugae (Ascomycota, Mycocaliciaceae) are described as new from western North America. Both species grow on conifer resin in wet temperate forests. While they have so far only been collected from Oregon, they may have wide distributions in the Pacific Northwest. Both species occur in specialized microhabitats and can be difficult to find.
20485761|Syntrichia sucrosa is described and illustrated as a new species from California. It is characterized by 1-4, pedicellate, bifurcate or stellate-branched papillae per cell, upper laminal cells 8-11 m in width, costa with hydroids and 2-4 layers of stereid cells, and margins recurved in the basal  of the  lingulate leaf. A key to the mosses with pedicellate papillae in the Northern Hemisphere is presented.
10.2307/3241421|Five species are reported as new for the State of Aragua. The occurrence of Pireella cavifolia (Card. & Herz.) Card. in Venezuela is confirmed.
10.2307/3241389|Aquatic bryophytes growing in streams were used for biogeochemical prospecting for uranium in the Bullet Gorge area of New Zealand. Alpha radioactivity was found to bear an inverse relationship to the uranium content of many bryophytes. The concentration of this element in the bryophytes gave an approximately quantitative indication of mineralization in the area and correlated well with the uranium content of the waters.
10.2307/3242619|The 52 species of Bryum known from western North America are keyed and documented, and are provided with notes on ecology and distribution. Bryum elegans Nees, B. gemmilucens Wilcz. & Dem. and B. radiculosum Brid. are reported new to North America. Bryum ramosum (Mitt.) Hook. is excluded from the North American flora.
10.2307/3241503|Scapania undulata produces a vegetative propagule (plantlet) that appears to be adaptive in early-spring dispersal. This seems to be the first record for the production of such propagules on living plants of this species.
10.2307/3241805|The hepatic flora of the eight Florida Parishes of southeastern Louisiana, consisting of 83 species in 24 families and 41 genera, reflects the physiography and climate in its occurrence and distribution. Three major floristic elements are present: 1) an Eastern North American element, 2) an indigenous Gulf Coastal Plain element, and 3) a Neotropical element. Lophocolea martiana Nees is reported as a disjunct range extension among the Gulf Coastal Plain from Florida. A species list, indicating major habitats, is included.
10.2307/3240652|Barbula inaequalifolia Tayl., previously known only from the Andes Mountains, is reported from North Carolina and is redescribed. Barbula reflexifolia Fleisch. of Java and B. tenii Herz. of China are reduced to the synonymy of B. inaequalifolia.
40732296|Taxonomic studies on lichen genus Pilophorus in China revealed a hitherto unknown species to science, which is here described as new: Pilophorus yunnanensis L. S. Wang & X. Y.Wang. It is characterized by small, simple, unbranched pseudopodetia having numerous scales, single (rarely two) globose apothecia at the tip and the lack of a columella. The species is reported from high elevations in Yunnan Province in southwestern China and was collected from siliceous rocks exposed to sun. Description and figures are provided on the basis of this material and the new taxon is compared with other Pilophorus species.
20110924|The lichen Buellia japonica is reported for the first time from North America based on collections from Gorges State Park, North Carolina. A description of the species is provided and its generic placement is discussed.
10.2307/3243488|For a given level of sampling effort there is a trade-off between accuracy of cover estimates and the proportion of the species present that are recorded in the data ("species capture"). We evaluated this trade-off for three strata of lichens and bryophytes in western Montana: branch epiphytes, trunk epiphytes, and ground layer. At one extreme, visually integrating a single large plot resulted in high species capture but low accuracy of cover estimates. At the other extreme, subsampling with many small plots, species capture was low but accuracy of cover estimates was higher for common species. Belt transects were intermediate in both respects. In general, larger areas of visual integration are preferable when the vegetation is sparse. Differences in sampling times between methods were mostly minor, and these differences were inconsistent among strata. When density and diversity of vegetation in a stratum are relatively high, sampling times are somewhat longer. To represent effectively both species diversity and cover, we recommend subsampling with small quadrats when vegetation is relatively dense or belt transects with sparse vegetation. These techniques should be supplemented by a fixed-area reconnaissance for species not included in the quantitative sample.
3244889|This study is the first attempt to review the Usnea fragilescens complex in Mexico. Morphological, anatomical, and chemical characters, as well as distribution are described for nine species. The updated distribution of U. dasaea Stirt. in Mexico is provided. A discriminant analysis of the CMA of the most common species is used to show the reliability of the correlation of anatomical, morphological, and chemical characters in their separation. Usnea brasiliensis (Zahlbr.) Motyka, U. esperantiana Clerc, U. fragilescens Lynge var mollis (Vain.) Clerc, U. jamaicensis Ach., and U. ramillosa Motyka s.str. are new records for Mexico. Usnea brasiliensis is a new record for North America. A key for the U. fragilescens group in Mexico is provided.
10.2307/3242679|A new species of Cynodontium, C. mexicanum, is described from southern Mexico. The species is morphologically close to C. alpestre (Wahl.) Milde of North America and Europe.
3244725|Cellulose-acetate disks were found convenient for the cultivation of lichen mycobionts and artificial resynthesis and culture of the lichen Cladonia cristatella. These cost-effective disks solve many resynthesis problems, as they are easily sterilized to facilitate mycobiont establishment. They also permit transfer of mycobiont cultures to nutrient-poor agar stimulating hyphal branching which is conducive to lichenization, with minimal carry over of the original medium. Mycobionts on cellulose-acetate disks can be directly inoculated with photobionts and preweighing permits growth of re-synthesized lichens to be monitored easily.
3244642|Three species of the hepatic genus Isotachis are reported from China. The occurrence of Isotachis japonica in China is confirmed; I. armata is reported as new to China; and I. chinensis Gao, Cao & Sun is described as new. The latter is characterized by bifid, sometimes trifid leaves, with nearly entire margins and leaf cells with distinctly thickened transverse walls. Descriptions, illustrations, and distributions of each species are presented.
10.2307/3243121| Crassicosta hermannii is described as a new genus and species from Nuevo Len, northeastern Mexico. It resembles some species of Cratoneuron in cellular details but grows prostrate and is sparsely and irregularly branched, with a strongly excurrent costa and small alar cells. 
20485759|A bryological survey in southeastern Brazil revealed a new species, Cylindrocolea brasiliensis (Cephaloziellaceae). The principal distinguishing character of this species is the dentate margin of the ventral leaf-lobe. The new species is described, illustrated and discussed, and an updated key to the Brazilian species of Cylindrocolea is provided.
41486742|Based on field trips between 1995-2007, rare and noteworthy lichens from the Altai Mountains in southern Siberia are described. Bacidia zerovii Oxner is recognized as a synonym of Scoliciosporum chlorococcum (Graewe ex Stenh.) Vzda. Lecidea brennen H. Magn. is lectotypified synonymized with Lecania cyrtellina (Nyl.) Sandst. The new combination Puttea exsequens (Nyl.) Printzen & Davydov is introduced for Lecidea exsequens Nyl. and is the oldest validly published name for Lecidea gibberosa sensu Th. Fr. non Ach. Of the 33 species reported here, five species - Lecania croatica, Lecanora pseudosarcopidoides, Lecidea, L. sanguineoatra y Puttea exsequens and Rimularia fuscosora are new for Asia and Russia, Buellia arborea is new to Asia, Lecanora farinaria is new to Russia, Caloplaca herbidella, C. sorocarpa, Fellhanera subtilis, Lecidea pullata, and Pertusaria coccodes are new to Siberia. Several species are reported as new to West or South Siberia. Most corticolous lichen species display a more or less circumboreal distribution and also occur in Europe and North America.
10.2307/3243288|The lichen genus Brodoa, comprising the so-called Hypogymnia intestiniformis group, is here segregated from Hypogymnia s. str. on the combined basis of a differing morphology, spore size, cortical structure, substrate, ecology and distribution. Phylogenetically, Hypogymnia s. str. appears to be more closely allied to Cavernularia and Menegazzia than to Brodoa.
10.2307/3243126| Lichen community structure was examined on silicious rocks in the Brooks Range of Alaska near Anaktuvuk Pass. Rocks with 0 slope were the most variable with respect to crustose, foliose and fruticose growth forms. Foliose lichens were the most common growth form of O slopes, with Parmelia stygia accounting for about 14% of the cover. Foliose lichens also dominated the 30 slopes, with P. stygia accounting for 23% of the cover. Crustose and foliose lichens were equally common on 60 slopes, with P. almquistii accounting for 32% of the cover. Vertical surfaces were dominated by crustose species of which Sporastatia testudinea, with 8% cover, was the most common species. 
10.2307/3241779|Parmelia (Xanthoparmelia) joranadia is described as new from New Mexico. Four additional Xanthoparmelia species are reported for the first time from New Mexico.
10.2307/3242680|Field measurements of tissue moisture content (% dry weight) and growth rates (mm yr
10.2307/3241896|Nine species are added to the Newfoundland moss flora. These are Andreaea crassinervia, Atrichum oerstedianum, Buxbaumia minakatae, Conostomum tetragonum, Fissidens cristatus, Grimmia tenerrima, Tayloria serrata, Timmia austriaca and Weissia controversa. Additional records or notes are provided for 13 others.
20485754|Macroclichen and bryophyte species diversity, abundance, biomass and nitrogen stocks were compared between arboreal and terrestrial habitats in old-growth sub-boreal spruce forests in central British Columbia, Canada on the two most common soil types in the area, fine- and coarse-textured soils. A total of 118 macrolichen and bryophyte species were identified, including 71 species of macrolichens (44 arboreal and 43 terrestrial) and 47 species of bryophytes, of which only one moss (Orthotrichum sp.) was arboreal. Macrolichen functional groups varied in both diversity and abundance between arboreal and terrestrial communities. Cyanolichens were common in both arboreal and terrestrial habitats, but were much more abundant arboreally than terrestrially. This epiphytic biomass was largely attributed to the tripartite cyanolichen species, Lobaria pulmonaria, while the most common terrestrial macrolichens were bipartite Peltigera cyanolichen species. From a biomass perspective, the epiphyte community was almost entirely lichens while the terrestrial community was predominantly bryophytes. Terrestrial and arboreal macrolichens and bryophytes made a relatively small contribution to total forest above-ground biomass (0.5-1.4% or 1698-3339 kg ha), however, a comparison between macrolichen and bryophyte biomass and tree foliar biomass showed lichens and bryophytes to be equivalent to 11.7-20.5% of tree foliar biomass. Macrolichens made a proportionately large contribution when compared to forest foliar nitrogen and contained 6.4-8.1% of forest foliar nitrogen. Nitrogen contents varied greatly between functional groups, from a maximum of 3.98% N in terrestrial bipartite cyanolichens to a minimum of 0.37% N in Alectoria hair lichens. In total, terrestrial and arboreal lichens and bryophytes represented 20-39 kg N ha in this old-growth sub-boreal spruce ecosystem.
20061119|Orthothecium hyalopiliferum is morphologically distinct at the species level from O. intricatum on the basis of its silky soft appearance, the presence of very narrow lanceolate leaves with a leaft tip to leaf base ratio of 1:2 or less; and piliferous leaf tips that end in 3-6 single cells. Orthothecium hyalopiliferum is presently known only from the Chinese provinces of Guizhou, Sichuan, and Yunnan.
10.2307/3243882| Lecidea ablephora Nyl. ex Hasse is an older name for the Californian terricolous species previously known as Ramonia gyalectiformis (Zahlbr.) Vzda. The appropriate combination, Ramonia ablephora (Nyl. ex Hasse) R. C. Harris, is made. 
10.2307/3243720|Bruchia hallii Aust. is reported from Alabama. The known range of the species and its distinguishing features are discussed.
10.2307/3243179| The genus Neohyophila Crum consists of a single species, N. sprengelii (Schwaegr.) Crum, which has two non-discontinuous varieties, var. sprengelii and var. stomatodonta (Card.) comb. nov., that are rather distinctive by combination of several character states in extreme form. Distinctions are made between N. sprengelii and the superficially similar Hyophila involuta (Hook.) Jaeg. & Sauerb. and Weisiopsis oblonga Thr. 
10.2307/3240828|Twenty species, collected for the first time from Har Meron in Israel, are reported and their worldwide distribution recorded. Insofar as they were determined, the lichen acids of these species are indicated and the crystals used for their identification illustrated.
10.2307/3243379| Two saxicolous species of Lecanora are described as new to science. Lecanora brodoana Lumbsch & Nash from Mexico and southwestern USA contains usnic acid, atranorin, and zeorin and has orbicular, coalescing soralia. Lecanora neosonorensis Lumbsch & Nash contains atranorin and 2-O-methylperlatolic acid and has pruinose discs. Lecanora helva and L. plumosa are reported as new for North America and L. gangaleoides and L. pseudistera are new for Mexico 
10.2307/3243996| The lichens Fuscidea arboricola Coppigs & Tnsberg, F. pusilla Tnsberg, Lecidea porphyrospoda (Anzi) Th. Fr., Lepraria rigidula (B. de Lesd.) Tnsberg, Pertusaria pupillaris (Nyl.) Th. Fr., and Ropalospora hibernica (P. James & Poelt) Tnsberg are reported new to North America. The diagnostic features of the taxa are briefly given as well as notes on their distribution and substratum ecology. 
10.2307/3242347| Twenty-six lichen taxa are reported from Salt River Basin, Missouri, of which eight, Arthonia caesia (Flot.) Krb., Caloplaca camptidia (Tuck.) Zahlbr., Candelariella xanthostigma (Ach.) Lett., Parmelia hypoleucites Nyl., Pertusaria hymenea (Ach.) Schaer., Physciopsis adglutinata (Flrke) Nyl., Physconia detersa (Nyl.) Poelt and Rinodina annulata Magn., are new to the State. This survey formed part of an environmental assessment program connected with the Clarence Cannon Dam and Reservoir Project. 
10.2307/3243962|The reproductive mode and population structure of Tetraphis pellucida vary with shoot density. Low-density colonies reproduce asexually by gemmae and have a female-biased sex ratio. Increased density is correlated with increased sexual reproduction (sporophyte production). High levels of sporophyte production are accompanied by an increase in the proportion of males and by the onset of senescence. Plasticity of reproductive allocation can increase the fitness of T. pellucida in an unstable environment.
10.2307/3243698|In Pseudevernia furfuracea olivetoric acid and atranorin decrease toward the base of the laciniae while physodic and chloratranorin increase. Oxyphysodic acid shows a contrasting pattern of intrathalline distribution: when olivetoric acid is absent (chemical race I) it decreases from the apex to the base of the laciniae, but when olivetoric acid is present (chemical races II and IV) the relative concentration of oxyphysodic acid increases in the same direction. Biogenetic considerations of these lichen products and some hypotheses of the origin of chemical variation in this species are discussed.
10.2307/3242344|The European species Didymodon sinuosus (Mitt.) Delogn. (= Barbula sinuosa (Mitt.) Grav.) is present in Alaska in western North America and is distinguished from similar pottiaceous species in a key.
10.2307/3242828|Jackiella flava Grolle, described as a new species in 1970, was in fact known early in this century under the misapplied name Symphyomitra concinna (Mitt.) Steph. (non Acrobolbus concinnus (Mitt.) Steph.). The background underlying the nomenclatural confusion is discussed.
41486718|The new foliicolous lichen Coccocarpia melloniorum Lucking from the Philippines is described and illustrated. It is morphologically similar to C. epiphylla but differs in the formation of disc-shaped isidia and dark rhizines. The species was discovered as part of a type digitization project through the Global Plant Initiative (GPI), as part of a syntype collection of Leptogium phyllogenum f. subsinuatum Vain.
10.2307/3241910|In the Tamar Valley area of southwest England are a number of metal spoil tips produced during the late 19th and early 20th century. These tips are an accumulation of materials from mining activity and metal extraction. Such tips frequently contain high quantities of metal ions but often in too low a concentration to be commercially exploitable. The ecology of these often unstable and toxic substrata is discussed with special emphasis on lichen distribution. Observations are presented concerning the viability of lichen ascospores in solutions containing heavy metal salts. Such solutions generally cause an inhibition of ascospore germination to a marked extent; in some cases the result of exposure is ascospore fragmentation.
10.2307/3243909| Syrrhopodon (Pseudo-calymperes) perdusenii is a new name for Calymperes subdisciforme C. Mll. ex Besch. Syrrhopodon (Pseudo-calymperes) virgulicola is described as a new species. Both names are based on specimens collected by Per Dusn in Cameroon. 
10.2307/3244204|Leucobryum glaucum and L. albidum are generally distinguished by quantitative differences in plant height, leaf length, and transverse sectional leaf anatomy. Although extremely small plants can be readily identified as L. albidum, and large plants can be confidently assigned to L. glaucum, intermediate forms are common and many identifications are arbitrary. We amplified approximately 815 bp of the nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS from plants varying in size, and cut the products with three restriction endonucleases (Hhal, Hinfl, and Taql). Two DNA haplotypes were detected in a sample of 23 plants growing at a forested site in Durham, North Carolina. All plants with leaves 5.0 mm in length or shorter had one haplotype, and all plants with leaves longer than 5.0 mm had the other haplotype. Our results support the interpretation that L. albidum (small plants) is genetically discontinuous with L. glaucum (large plants), at least in the limited area from which we sampled.
20061122|The sporophyte structure of Cavicularia densa Steph. was investigated and described in detail with photomicrographs. Taxonomic and phylogenetic discussions, based on the sporophyte features, are made on the genus Cavicularia, as well as on the genus Blasia. Characters newly noted include the bulbous foot, a rudimentary collar at the base of capsule, semiannular or helical thickenings of the inner capsule wall, several layers of transfer cells on both sides of the placenta, and the presence of a single large plastid in the early stage of the sporocytes. The occurrence of monoplastidic sporocytes in both Cavicularia and Blasia strongly support their inclusion is the family Blasiaceae in the metzgerioid liverworts.
20110768|Frullania chevalieri (R. M. Schust.) R. M. Schust., previously only known from New Caledonia, is formally reported for the first time for New Zealand. This species represents an important element in the Jubulaceae because it is morphologically allied to a small group of species historically assigned to Schusterella S. Hatt. et al., which has a complicated and controversial taxonomic history. There has been no critical reassessment of Schusterella for over 30 years since the genus was first proposed and this has led to competing contemporary classifications systems. However, chemical and morphological evidence indicates very strongly that Frullania chevalieri and its allies should indeed be retained in the genus Frullania. Frullania chevalieri is described and illustrated in detail and a brief synopsis of morphologically allied species is made; characters associated with the sporophyte and oil-bodies are reported for the first time. The distinguishing features of F. chevalieri and its close morphological allies include the small plant size coupled with the dentate margins of the leaf-lobe.
10.2307/3244085|Entosthodon durieui Mont. and E. pallescens Jur., two species with Mediterranean distributions are compared and are identical A description and illustrations of E. durieui, incorporating spore morphology, are given.
10.2307/3243481|Mexico and Colombia share about 371 moss species; 25 of them have a disjunct distribution and may have arrived at either country by long distance dispersal. The Central American bridge has served as the major route for moss interchange between Mexico and Colombia. The Neovolcanic Belt of Mexico and the northern Andes in Colombia produced a barrier effect which reduced floristic exchange with areas to the north and south, but especially with Central America.
10.2307/3241250|Eleven species of lichens are reported for the first time from California. Comments are made on several additional species which are either rarely reported or are based on dubious records.
10.2307/3243440|Enterographa zonata and Opegrapha gyrocarpa are reported new to North America from Canada.
10.2307/3243092| The genus Astomiopsis is represented by 5 species: A. amblyocalyx from Argentina, Bolivia, Mexico and Lesotho, A. subulata from Argentina and Bolivia, A. sinensis from China, A. pacifica from the Juan Fernndez Islands, and A. exserta from Mexico. Pleuridium exsertum Bartr. is transferred to the genus Astomiopsis as Astomiopsis exsertum (Bartr.) Snider. Astomiopsis kieneri (Bartr.) Delgadillo & Crdenas is placed in synonymy under A. amblyocalyx. All taxa except A. pacifica are typically found in alpine habitats at elevations of ca. 3,000 m or above. A history of the genus, a key to the species and descriptions and illustrations to the taxa are provided. Neotypes are designated for A. amblyocalyx and A. subulata. 
40982953|The lichen flora of southeast Alaska has been explored for over 100 years, but remains poorly known. In the first survey of its kind from the region, we report 766 taxa of lichens and lichenicolous fungi from the Klondike Gold Rush National Historic Park. Coming from a park only 53 km in size, this represents one of the largest numbers of lichenized and lichenicolous fungi per unit area ever reported and the largest number ever reported from any United States National Park of any size. One lichen genus, four lichen species and one species of lichenicolous fungus are described as new to science: Steineropsis alaskana gen. et sp. nov. (Peltigerales), Coccotrema hahriae and Pertusaria mccroryae (both Pertusariales), Stereocaulon klondikense (Lecanorales) and Corticifraga scrobiculatae (Lecanoromycetes incertae sedis). The new combinations Coccotrema minutum and Nesolechia fusca are made and Parmelia elongata is reduced to synonymy under Hypogymnia duplicata. Seventy-five taxa could not be assigned a species name at this time and represent a pool of critical and/or potentially undescribed taxa. Thirty-four taxa are new or confirmed for North America, including seventeen lichen taxa, one species of saprophytic Dothideomycetes, and sixteen species of lichenicolous fungi. Five taxa of eastern North American distribution are reported for the west for the first time. A total of 196 taxa are new for Alaska. We report the presence of novel secondary chemical compounds in Bryoria, Cladonia, Hypogymnia and Pertusaria. Based on a Chao analysis of single and two-time occurrences we estimate we have captured not more than 83% of the macrolichen and 64% of the microlichen flora, with the total flora likely exceeding 1000 taxa. We provide an overview of the lichen inventories with highest species number worldwide and discuss the Klondike in the context of broader patterns in lichen richness. Global models of climate change in the coming century are unanimous in predicting greater temperature increases at higher latitudes than at low latitudes. We hope that our data will lead to a reconsideration of the potential extent of biodiversity at high latitudes.
20110778|Syntrichia ammonsiana is newly recorded for South America from Peru. Previously, this species was known only from North America and southern Africa. The principal distinctive characters that separate it from the three nearest species, S. chisosa, S. costesii and S. laevipila, are discussed.
40732266|A comparative study of the morphology, anatomy and chemistry of Buellia lindingeri and Rinodina hallii clearly shows that these taxa are very closely related but not conspecific. The unique epihymenia distinguishes them from most species of both Buellia and Rinodina but, as they are more closely related to Rinodina, Buellia lindingeri is transferred to that genus.
40982989|Although Cladonia cinerella Ahti does not appear on the North American checklist of lichens and lichenicolous fungi, it was collected once from the Everglades of Florida in 1909.Ironically, I encountered a large colony deep within the interior of Everglades National Park exactly one century plus one day after the original encounter. In this paper I present some additional observations to Ahti's description based upon living Everglades material illustrated by photos and propose the addition of C. cinerella to the above checklist.
3244620| Fissidens cagoui Frank Mll., Pursell & Brugg.-Nann., in section Amblyothallia, is described and illustrated. Fissidens pseudopallidus I. G. Stone, hitherto known only from Queensland, Australia, is reported new to the moss flora of New Caledonia. Also, E rigidulus Hook. f. & Wilson is newly recorded for the island. Records for five other species are appended. 
20110798|The rare moss, Tortella limbata, previously known only from the type locality on Grand Canary Island (Canary Islands, Spain), and misjudged as a synonym of Trichostomum brachydontium, is here reinstated, reported from La Gomera (Canary Islands) and the Madeira Archipelago (Portugal), lectotypified, described and illustrated.
10.2307/3243965|Chiodecton sanguineum (syn. C. rubrocinctum) is transferred to the genus Cryptothecia Stirton and the new species C. striata is described. The latter is usually known in the literature as Chiodecton montagnei. Descriptions of both species are given. The distribution in the U.S.A. is mapped for C. striata and the distribution in the U.S.A. and America excluding the U.S.A. is mapped for C. rubrocincta. Cryptothecia striata is found with asci but not C. rubrocincta.
10.2307/3242486|Thirteen taxa are reported new to western Pennsylvania.
10.2307/3242049|Four-0-methylgyrophoric acid has been isolated from one of four chemical variants of Pseudocyphellaria quercifolia.
10.2307/3243034|Complex patterns of morphological variation within Sphagnum capillifolium sensu lato have led to a confusing array of taxonomic treatments. An exploratory investigation was undertaken of the variation within a single peatland. Results of a multivariate analysis of a random sample of the population indicates that two taxa, a woodland taxon corresponding to S. subtile (Russow) Warnst. and an open bog taxon corresponding to S. rubellum Wils., may be recognized. Both taxa remained distinct in a common garden without any evidence of intergradation between them. These results are significant since S. subtile has been viewed by some taxonomists as a taxon of doubtful value. It is recommended that S. subtile deserves taxonomic recognition although further investigations are desirable to determine the taxonomic status of these and other taxa in S. capillifolium sensu lato since this investigation was limited to a single peatland.
10.2307/3244186|Hypotrachyna riparia is described as a new species of lichenized fungus from Oregon, U.S.A. Morphologically similar to H. gondylophora, H. riparia is separated from that species by shorter, more richly branched rhizines and the presence of salazinic rather than fumarprotocetraric acid.
10.2307/3242558|Mniobryum is a well-defined subgenus of Pohlia represented by seven species in North America. The taxonomic status of several taxa is clarified, and P. brevinervis Lindb. & Arn. is newly reported from North America. The latter is similar to P. vexans in gametophytic features, but sporophytically it is closest to P. atropurpurea. Pohlia melanodon (Brid.) Shaw comb. nov., is an earlier name for P. carnea (Schimp.) Lindb. The type of P. wahlenbergii var. glacialis (Brid.) Warb. is not the extreme variant to which the name has frequently been applied.
10.2307/3240802|Sporophytes of Jubula pennsylvanica (Steph.) Evans, a species which apparently fruits very rarely, were collected from two localities in the springs of 1962 and 1963. Previously unrecorded characteristics of the sporophyte are given as well as information on spore dissemination and the ecology of the fruiting specimens.
10.2307/3243223|Relative growth rates of six different size classes of shoot cuttings were compared for five calcareous grassland bryophytes. The experiment demonstrated significant differences among relative growth rates as measured by changes in dry weight and shoot elongation. The rate of dry matter production was not significantly affected by initial shoot length. Shoot elongation behaved differently, however, showing a significant inverse relationship between initial shoot length and relative rate of elongation. It is recommended that estimations of growth responses of bryophytes should include measures of dry weight as well as of stem elongation.
10.2307/3242511|In the Cladonia chlorophaea group in North Carolina, consisting of six sibling species characterized by natural-product chemistry, three species produce fumarprotocetraric acid as a constant constituent and two species as an accessory substance. Fumarprotocetraric acid production in the species group as a whole decreases from the Mountains through the Piedmont to the Coastal Plain.
3244723|The type material of the early Bridelian moss name Grimmia strigosa Brid. is reconsidered. It consists of seven shoots containing a mixture of two species belonging to Schistidium Bruch & Schimp. and Racomitrium Brid. There is a single shoot of what is currently considered Schistidium papillosum Culm., and the other six shoots are Racomitrium microcarpon (Hedw.) Brid. In order to avoid disruption of nomenclature and in order to retain the current usage of the long used name, Schistidium papillosum, the name Grimmia strigosa is lectotypified with the material that represents Racomitrium microcarpon and, accordingly, it is here placed in synonymy with the latter name. Details of the lectotype material are illustrated.
41289806|Parmotrema mirandum (Hale) Hale is shown to contain hypoconstictic acid as a major secondary metabolite and represents one of the few records of this substance as a major diagnostic secondary metabolite in Parmotrema. In addition, P. mirandum is reported for the first time from localities in the Mexican states of Guerrero and Morelos.
3244702| Forty-five lichen species are reported from Aldabra, an atoll of four main islands and numerous islets located in the Indian Ocean. Thirty-three species are new to Aldabra. The lichen flora is characteristic of the Indian Ocean islands. It is dominated by pantropical species, showing a rather weak statistical correlation (Srensson Coefficient) of 22.0 between Aldabra and the islands of the granitic Seychelles and a surprisingly higher correlation of 36.5 with the Chagos Archipelago more than five times the distance away. 
20110942|Two previously published molecular analyses of the Dicranaceae and related families that supported as a taxonomic entity the clade "Rhabdoweisiaceae" as a segregate of the Dicranaceae s.lat. were subjected to a nine-step statistical analysis. The first study did not well support the Rhabdoweisiaceae but, in combination with the second, reliable support was obtained demonstrating that Rhabdoweisiaceae are both monophyletic and not merely a basal branch of the Dicranaceae. Although such molecular conclusions may guide taxonomy, there is no satisfactory morphological definition of the Rhabdoweisiaceae, and that uncertainty may lead to a paraphyletic classification of the Dicranaceae to include Rhabdoweisiaceae as simply one or more basal lineages.
20110857|A new Neotropical species of hornwort, Nothoceros superbus, is described from Costa Rica. The species is distinguished by its large size, strongly costate thallus with crispate-imperforate wings, dioicous condition and green, unicellular spores that are minutely papillose with tubercules dispersed on the borders and the distal face, and sometimes clustered in the center of the distal face. Nothoceros superbus has a combination of Megaceros-like spores and a Dendroceros-like thallus growth-form. The combination of these features supports its placement in the genus Nothoceros in the Dendrocerotaceae. Nomenclatural clarifications on Nothoceros endiviaefolius (Mont.) J. Haseg. and Nothoceros giganteus (Lehm. & Lindenb.) J. Haseg. are made. Based on new molecular and morphological data a new combination, Nothoceros canaliculatus (Pagn) comb. nov., is proposed.
20485804|Costesia spongiosa is known only from central Chile. The recent discovery of several small populations prompted an examination of diagnostic morphological features and the sampling of DNA for surveying the chloroplast genome for a 71-kb inversion diagnostic of the Funariales and Encalyptales, and for reconstructing the phylogenetic affinities of this monospecific genus. The species is fully illustrated and mapped. The affinities of Costesia to the Gigaspermaceae are here confirmed based on morphology and corroborated by chloroplast sequence data. Molecular data suggest that Costesia is most closely related to Oedipodiella and Chamaebryum. Although the species is locally common, it has disappeared from several localities and seems now confined mostly to a protected area. We propose that Costesia spongiosa be included as the first Chilean endemic bryophyte in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
10.2307/3243641|The lichenicolous fungus Dacampia hookeri (Borrer) Massal. is reported new to the American Arctic from Devon Island, Northwest Territories.
10.2307/3241504|Forty-six species of lichens were collected along the trunk of ten individuals of Populus grandidentata. Seven species, found in more than 50% of the seventy meter-high quadrats, show well defined patterns of vertical distribution when graphed: Caloplaca cerina (60%), Candelariella vitellina (64%), Parmelia subaurifera (80%), Parmelia sulcata (87%), Physcia adscendens (79%), Physcia stellaris (63%), and Xanthoria polycarpa (61%). Spacial separation of species is well developed in four genera, Bacidia, Cetraria, Physcia, and Rinodina.
20061138|A synopsis of the genus Gomphillus in the Americas is presented, with the description of the new species, G. pedersenii L. I. Ferraro & Lcking, from Argentina. The new species is characterized by pale, vertically elongate apothecia, rather broad ascospores, and umbelliform hyphophores. With the exclusion of G. caribaeus W. R. Buck, which belongs in a new genus, Bryogomphus, in the Pilocarpaceae, and the recent discovery of another new species, G. morchelloides Lcking & Srus., the genus Gomphillus now comprises five species. All taxa are keyed out and briefly discussed, and a distribution map for the Americas is given.
10.2307/3242711|Ultrastructural analysis of spermatids of the monotypic liverwort Geothallus tuberosus Campb. shows that the blepharoplast is similar to those reported for the other two genera of the Sphaerocarpales, Riella and Sphaerocarpos. The three genera comprise a distinct group characterized by a wide blepharoplast consisting of 20 to 24 microtubules that narrows to only two microtubules in the continuing shank. Otherwise the blepharoplast of the Sphaerocarpales most closely resembles those reported from the Marchantiales, an order with which it is traditionally grouped in the Marchantiidae. This study completes a survey of the Sphaerocarpales and permits, for the first time, the evaluation of variability in blepharoplast characters within an entire, albeit small, order of hepatics. We conclude that the blepharoplast is a useful character set at the ordinal level in hepatics, that the determination of blepharoplast micromorphology is a practical endeavor, and that carefully conceived and executed investigations of certain critical taxa will contribute significantly to the understanding of hepatic phylogeny.
10.2307/3242244| Chemical investigations have been carried out on lichen specimens of the Stereocaulon ramulosum group from Central East Africa (Zare/ Kivu, Rwanda and Burundi). Thin-layer chromatography and UV spectrum studies have shown the existence of atranorin and perlatolic acid in both Stereocaulon ramulosum (Sw.) Rusch. and Stereocaulon meyeri Stein; specimens identified as S. meyeri subsp. atlanticum Lamb contain atranorin, perlatolic, stictic and norstictic acids. 
25614873|This paper reports the first detailed study of lichens on Sable Island since the pioneering study of John Macoun in 1899 who recorded 27 taxa in his publications. The present survey carried out in 2007, revealed that 39 macrolichens and 42 crusts now colonize sand, bone, lignum and cement substrata. The annotated checklist which includes current and former records contains 62 macrolichens and 46 crustose species plus seven lichen parasymbionts. Specimens have been deposited in the Nova Scotia Museum of Natural History, Halifax (NSPM) and in the Canadian Museum of Nature, Ottawa (CANL). The changes in the lichen flora, and the possible reasons for them, that have occurred over the past 20 years and since the first survey in 1899, are discussed. Speculations on the future of the present lichen flora on Sable Island are also made.
10.2307/3242798|The effects of fire on cryptogamic soil crust communities at Camp Floyd State Park, Utah, were examined. Three years after fire, lichen and moss cover were both substantially lower in abundance in the burned area than in the adjacent unburned area. Both the living algae, as measured by culture techniques, as well as the subfossil diatom commi nity, which was measured directly, were also significantly lower in the burned area. Two years later, the algae had shown considerable recovery. Only one group of algae, the chrysophyte cysts observed in the subfossil diatom slides, was significantly lower in the burned area at this time. Though invasion of lichens and mosses had begun after five years, recovery was not complete either in terms of biomass or composition at the conclusion of the study. Factors contributing to the recovery of the crusts apparently included above average precipitation over the last few years, proximity and type of propagules, and protection from subsequent disturbance.
10.2307/3241979| IV. Oedipodium griffithianum (Dicks.) Schwaegr. is reported for the first time from Chile (Bo-Bo Province). This is the second record for this species in Southern South America. Distinctive characteristics for the species are described and illustrated. V. Scouleria patagonica (Mitt.) Jaeg. is reported for the first time from Ro Negro in Argentina and from Bo-Bo Province in Chile. The Chilean record represents a significant extension northward in the range of this species. Scouleria patagonica is distinguished from the North American species S. marginata Britt. by the intramarginal "pseudonerves" of the leaf and by the peristomate capsules. 
10.2307/3243267|Considerable chemical variation was found in two of the six currently recognized species of Rhizoplaca in North America. In the most widespread species, R. chrysoleuca, the most common chemotypes are largely sympatric; however, the rare chemotypes are mainly restricted to the Southwest, and only two chemotypes are found in the Eastern and Appalachian regions. Chemical variation was also found within individual packets of R. chrysoleuca. The two most common chemotypes of R. melanophthalma are almost completely sympatric; two rare chemotypes were found in the West. Despite the sympatry, quantitative latitudinal differences were found in the proportional representation of different lichen substances: usnic acid was most common northward, and psoromic, lecanoric, and pseudoplacodiolic acids were most common at low latitudes. A key to the North American Rhizoplaca species incorporating secondary chemistry is given.
41486723|The status of the three taxa belonging to Timmia section Norvegica has not yet been satisfyingly resolved, despite several studies during the last ca. 30 years. In this study, relationships among specimens matching T. norvegica, T. cornata and T. sibirica morphologies were inferred from a portion of the nuclear 26S and the chloroplast loci trnL-trnF and atpB-rbcL. Maximum parsimony analysis provided high support for the monophyly of Timmia section Norvegica,T.cornata, and a clade comprising T. sibirica and T. norvegica, whereas the relationships among specimens with morphologies of the latter two taxa could be resolved only by means of haplotype networks. The haplotype network based on 26S separates T. sibirica from T. norvegica, whereas the two chloroplast markers do not. Based on the 26S differences and morphological evidence, T.sibirica and T. norvegica are considered different at the species level. Timmia cornata is resolved in a haplotype network separate from that of T. norvegica plus T. sibirica. The combination with the high bootstrap support of the clade with T cornata specimens and their morphological distinctness from T. norvegica strongly supports their recognition as a distinct species.
3244722|Australasia is a center of endemism for the lichen genus Cladonia and its allies. The taxonomic diversity of this genus in New Zealand is remarkable, with approximately 60 species recognized. This paper treats 21 species of Cladonia, including eight new taxa: C. cyanopora, C. darwinii, C. fuscofunda, C. gallowayi, C. incerta, C. pulchra, C. nitidella, and C. strangulata. Eight additional species not previously known from New Zealand are also discussed.
10.2307/3241353|The histology of the fruiting structure of Isotachis lyallii yields anatomical and morphological criteria giving new insight into the affinities of Isotachis, a genus belonging to the Balantiopsidaceae according to the present study.
10.2307/3242776|Pseudoleskea stenophylla Ren. & Card. ex Roell is reported new to eastern North America from Nova Scotia. The North American distribution is given, and the possible Tertiary and glacial history of the species is discussed.
10.2307/3243716|Hydropogon fontinaloides, new to both Colombia and Ecuador, appears to be confined to the upper tributaries of the Amazon basin. Twenty-one new records of mosses are reported for Colombia: Callicostella tenerrima, Calyptothecium planifrons, Cyclodictyon chimborazense, Daltonia stenophylla, Entosthodon obtusifolius, Lepidopilum erectiusculum, L. pallidonitens, Leucoloma crugerianum, Macromitrium subcirrosum, M. tonduzii, M. trinitense, Micromitrium thelephorothecum, Orthotrichum aequatoreum, Pireella cymbifolia, P. pohlii, Sematophyllum adnatum, Syrrhopodon fimbriatus, S. incompletus var. lanceolatus and var. luridus, Trachyxiphium steerei (Griffin) Churchill, comb. nov., and Tristichium lorentzii. The number of species of mosses now known for Colombia is just over 900. Twenty-seven additions to the department of Antioquia are provided; the number of species of mosses presently known for the department stands at 387.
10.2307/3242626| Several new synonyms are recognized for Colombia or elsewhere: Aptychella colombica Williams = A. proligera (Broth.) Herz., Bartramia defoliata C. Mll. = B. angustifolia Mitt., Hypopterygium rigidulum Mitt. and H. sylvaticum Mitt. = H. tamariscinum (Hedw.) Brid., Meteorium atro-lutea (C. Mll.) Jaeg. = M. illecebrum (C. Mll.) Mitt., and Rhytidiadelphus novogranatensis Williams = Mittenothamnium loriforme (Hampe) Card. fide Rohrer. New combinations are: Pleuridium lindigianum (Hampe) Churchill, Schizomitrium acutifolium (Thr.) Churchill, and S. plicatulum (Thr.) Churchill. A discussion is provided for Pterobryon in South America with a redescription for Mller's P. excelsum. Thuidium antillarum Besch. and T. urceolatum Lor. are reclarified. /// Varios nuevos sinnimos son reconocidos para Colombia y otras regiones: Aptychella colombica Williams = A. proligera (Broth.) Herz., Bartramia defoliata C. Mll. = B. angustifolia Mitt., Hypopterygium rigidulum Mitt. y. H. sylvaticum Mitt. = H. tamariscinum (Hedw.) Brid., Meteorium atro-lutea (C. Mll.) Jaeg. = Meteorium illecebrum (C. Mll.) Mitt., y Rhytidiadelphus novogranatensis Williams = Mittenothamnium loriforme (Hampe) Card. fide Rohrer. Nuevas combinaciones son: Pleuridium lindigianum (Hampe) Churchill, Schizomitrium acutifolium (Thr.) Churchill, y. S. plicatulum (Thr.) Churchill. Comentarios del gnero Pterobryon en Suramrica y una re-descripcin para la especie de Mller, P. excelsum, son incluidos. 
10.2307/3244382|Twenty-five percent (113 species) of the moss flora of Alberta is rare. Among these rare species, the pleurocarpous condition, presence of long-lived perennials, and competitive strategies are less common when compared with the complete flora. Rare species are over represented by the Bryales, Dicranales, and Funariales, while the Hypnales, Orthotrichales, and Sphagnales are under represented. Forty-two percent of the rare species have boreal distributions. The greatest occurrence of rare species is in the Rocky Mountains, with numbers of rare species decreasing southward. The largest proportion of rare species occur on soil (57%) or rock (34%). We define habitat heterogeneity at two landscape scales: the microhabitat scale and the mesohabitat scale, here defined as non-random sets of microhabitats. Rare species most frequently occur on cliff and alpine mesohabitats. In Alberta, 74% of the rare species occurrences are on restricted mesohabitats (e.g., cliffs); the dominant mesohabitats (e.g., forests, grasslands) have fewer species. These conclusions are important for management of rare species diversity. Attributes of mesohabitats are useful in formulating predictions of rare species occurrence on the regional landscape.
10.2307/3244111|The distribution of Trichostomum tenuirostre (Hook. & Tayl.) Lindb. var. gemmiparum (Schimp.) Zand. is extended to eastern Asia.
10.2307/3244552| Campylopus extinctus J.-P. Frahm spec. nov. is described from Brazil on the basis of a collection kept in the herbarium of the University of Gttingen, taken from the stem of a tree fern cultivated in the greenhouse of the Botanical Garden of Gttingen. The tree fern was introduced from Santa Catarina, Brazil in 1904. The species of Campylopus is known only from this collection and to date has not been collected in the wild. For this reason the species is thought to be extinct in the wild. 
10.2307/3243526|Meesia triquetra (Richt.) Aongstr. occurs in rich fens having surface waters with high pH and calcium concentrations. The present day distribution of M. triquetra in North America and Greenland is documented from Alaska and British Columbia east to Newfoundland and Ellesmere Island, N.W.T., and south to northern California in the west and Pennsylvania in the east. A large number of collections have been made from the mountains and foothills in Alaska, British Columbia, and Alberta; also notable are the many collections from the Great Lakes area. All Quaternary subfossil records lie in the same geographic area as extant records except for one station in Iowa and another in southern Ohio, both of which lie south of the present-day range.
10.2307/3244524|Phylogenetic analyses on Polytrichales were conducted using morphological characters as well as sequence data from the chloroplast genes rbcL and rps4 and the nuclear-encoded 18S rRNA gene. Our analyses included 22 species representing all genera of Polytrichales, plus eight outgroup species. Sequence data were obtained from 25, 22, and 19 taxa for 18S, rbcL and rps4 genes, respectively. Phylogenetic trees were constructed with parsimony analyses. Results lend support for recognition of Polytrichales as a distinct, monophyletic entity. After successively approximated weighting, Oedipodium griffithianum appears as the sister-group to Polytrichales. Within Polytrichales, Alophosia, Bartramiopsis, and Lyellia have the most basal placement outside a clade including all other genera. Atrichopsis, Dendroligotrichum, Itatiella, Meiotrichum, and Notoligotrichum are distinguished as a resolved monophyletic group while other genera are left as an unresolved entity. Resolution between these genera is achieved by successive weighting of data. After this, Dawsonia is resolved in the basal position within the clade and Polytrichastrum appears as a sister-taxon to Eopolytrichum and Polytrichum.
10.2307/3242712|Nineteen species of noncrustose lichens were found on juniper bark. Of these, three species had relatively high cover and frequency values and were characterized as typical lichens of Rocky Mountain junipers: Xanthoria fallax, Phaeophyscia hirsuta and Physcia caesia. Total cover per tree was low (4%), and most species preferred the north and east sides of trunk bases. These distributional trends may reflect gradients of exposure to wind, insolation, and rate of bark exfoliation.
10.2307/3240672|Drummondia pursellii n. sp. from the state of Tamaulipas in northeastern Mexico is distinguished from D. prorepens (Hedw.) Britt. by cuspidate leaf tips nearly filled by the costa, pellucid and often elongate basal leaf cells, and cylindric capsules with stomata at the junction of capsule and seta.
10.2307/3243356|Lorentziella imbricata (Mitt.) Broth., currently known from the United States (Texas) and South America, is reported from Mexico for the first time. The known distribution of Oreoweisia delgadilloi Robins. & Bowers is extended to central Mexico.
10.2307/3244453| The presence of a dormancy/nondormancy cycle was investigated in spores of the winter, annual, liverwort, Sphaerocarpos texanus. To test for loss of dormancy, mature laboratory-derived spores were held at three daily alternating incubation temperature regimes (thermoperiods) of 35/20, 30/15, and 25/15C. For 22 intervals (varying from one week to 91 weeks), spores were transferred from each of these three thermoperiods onto a wet substrate in a germination chamber held at 16/10C. Loss of dormancy, indicated by the spores ability to germinate, increased as the length of time spores kept in the incubation thermoperiods increased. Loss of dormancy in spores held at 35/20C increased faster than spores held at 30/15 and 25/15C. Spores held at each of the three thermoperiods germinated best when transferred to 16/10C and failed to germinate when transferred to 35/20 and 30/15C. Spores subjected to simulated seasonal temperature changes were induced back into secondary dormancy when subjected to low temperatures. The loss of dormancy and subsequent induction of dormancy suggest that S. texanus has a dormancy/nondormancy spore cycle similar to that found in seeds of obligate winter annuals. 
10.2307/3241652|Sucrose, mannitol, arabitol, and ribitol were the major low molecular weight carbohydrates detected when alcoholic extracts of L. vulpina and L. columbiana were examined by paper chromatography. Small quantities of three unknowns and a compound corresponding to trehalose were also detected.
10.2307/3241064|Gametophytes of Riccia fluitans were treated with 11 growth regulators in a mineral medium under temperature and light controlled conditions. Concentrations of the regulating chemicals ranged from 0.5 to 250 p.p.m. All plants showed elongation of the dorsal cells resulting in a tight dorsoventral coiling of the newly formed tips. There was considerable variation in the amount of growth stimulation but all the treated plants showed an increase of 1-15% over the controls. Several plants died at higher concentrations of the regulators.
10.2307/3241409|The taxonomic position of Pigafettoa, a poorly known monotypic genus occurring only in southern South America, is evaluated and it is shown that the taxon belongs in the Geocalycaceae. A key to the genera of the Clasmatocolea-Xenocephalozia complex is given.
10.2307/3243155|Trichostomum molariforme is newly described from Mexico, the West Indies and Louisiana in the U.S.A. Trichostomum stenocarpum Wils. in Seem, is transferred to the genus Atractylocarpus, being an earlier name for A. costaricensis (C. Muell.) Bartr.
10.2307/3242241| Ramalina farinacea (L.) Ach. is most abundant along the coastal regions of North America from approximately 30-60N latitude. All of the five European chemical races are present in the New World in addition to unreported combinations of diagnostic acids. An analysis of morphological variation in chemical lines showed them to be indistinguishable. There is evidence of a latitudinal gradient in the abundance of the chemical races, and different substrate preferences are exhibited in different regions of their distributions. 
10.2307/3244410|Improvement in the air quality of the upper Ohio River valley has led to lichen recolonization at previously depauperate sites. Between 1973 and 1996 the number of corticolous macrolichen species in the area increased from 6 to 20. During the same time the mean species richness per site increased from 0.8 to 6.5. An indicator species, Flavoparmelia caperata, was absent from all study sites in 1973, but present at 27 of 28 study sites in 1996. Lichen studies performed over time provide a good tool to document air quality improvement, but a single study in a changing air quality environment may give problematic results.
3244345|As a result of a project using two chloroplast loci, the trnL-trnF region and the rps4 gene, to test the monophyly of pleurocarpous mosses as a group and the traditional three orders contained in it, several novel generic alliances were revealed. Of particular interest are the inclusion of the Ptychomniaceae and Garovagliaceae in the Hookeriales, as well as generic inclusions in the Anomodontaceae, Brachytheciaceae, Amblystegiaceae sensu lato, and Sematophyllaceae.
10.2307/3242135|Andreaea acutifolia H.f. & W. and A. rupestris Hedw. are reported from the Hawaiian Islands, and Andreaea perpapillosa Broth. is considered a synonym of the latter. It is probable that both A. acutifolia of the Southern Hemisphere and the predominantly Northern Hemisphere A. rupestris arrived on the Hawaiian Islands by long-distance dispersal. A key and discussion distinguish the two species.
10.2307/3243094|Stephani described eleven Marchantia species based on Japanese specimens. The types of nine of these names proved to be synonyms of previously described species. The name M. cuneiloba Steph. is presently used for a taxon in a sense that excludes its type. Its correct name is M. pinnata Steph. Stephani's names are typified or lectotypified.
10.2307/3244526|This study was done 1) to determine the usefulness of spore germination of selected non-seed plants as a bioassay for simulated acid rain (SAR) and O
10.2307/3243036|Dicranoloma braunfelsiopsis is reduced to the synonymy of Brotherobryum macgregori.
10.2307/3241267|Thirty-eight species of lichens, mostly from the central and northern regions of Argentina, are reported. Anaptychia dendritica var. propagulifera, Buellia lauricassiae, Parmelia delicatula, P. intercalanda, and Ramalina usnea are new to the known flora of Argentina.
10.2307/3243313|The purpose of this research was to determine the number and spatial extent of genetically homogeneous clones of Sphagnum rubellum within one bog. Seven multilocus allozyme haplotypes could be distinguished in a sample of 100 plants representing 11 colonies. Of the seven allozyme haplotypes, two accounted for 66% of the plants we sampled. Three other haplotypes were moderately common (each making up 9-11% of our sample), and two other rare haplotypes were restricted to a single polymorphic colony. Ten of the 11 colonies we sampled each consisted of a single allozyme haplotype while one colony contained four haplotypes.
10.2307/3243676| Fissidens leptophyllus is retained in section Aloma of subgenus Fissidens on the basis of guttulae present in the laminal cells and a scariosus-type peristome. Fissidens leptophyllus fo. obtusissimus, also of section Aloma, is elevated to specific rank. The neotype of F. hornschuchii selected by Florschtz is rejected and replaced by one consisting of original material collected by Martins and agreeing with Hornschuch's original illustrations. Fissidens hornschuchii belongs to section Semilimbidium rather than to section Aloma. Fissidens legalloi is reduced to the synonymy of F. hornschuchii. 
20485792|The Orthotrichum strangulatum complex in eastern and interior North America has three species: O. strangulatum P. Beauv., O. parvulum Mitt. and O. lescurii Austin. All three form blackish green, rigid tufts and are restricted to calcareous substrates. Orthotrichum strangulatum has oblong-lanceolate leaves with partially thickened laminae and multistratose, recurved margins. Its oblong-elongate capsules have 16, reticulate-papillose, free exostome teeth. Orthotrichum lescurii has a more narrowly lanceolate leaf shape than O. strangulatum with unistratose laminae and revolute margins. Its ovate capsules have eight pairs of finely papillose exostome teeth. Orthotrichum parvulum has oblong-lanceolate leaves with unistratose laminae and plane leaf margins. It has oblong capsules with 16, reticulate-papillose, free exostome teeth. Orthotrichum peckii Sull. & Lesq. in Austin, O. porteri Sull. & Lesq. in Austin, and O. strangulatum var. missouricum Holz. ex Grout are synonyms of O. strangulatum. Orthotrichum strangulatum var. missouricum is lectotypified with a specimen from Holzinger's herbarium in MINN.
10.2307/3240586|Seventeen species of mosses are reported from Delhi. Bryum klinggraeffii Schimp. is new to the flora of India.
10.2307/3240673|Herpothallon sanguineum, previously thought to have its northern limit in North Carolina, is reported from a Taxodium community in southern Delaware.
40982995|Austrolejeunea secunda differs from all other species belonging to the Siphonolejeunea generic complex in its acuminate, ventrally secund leaf lobes that have both acroscopic and basiscopic margins reflexed to form a channel extending the entire length of the antical margin, the truncate underleaf lobe apex, the first lobule tooth of three moniliform cells, and the presence of second and third lobule teeth. It is the third New Zealand species of Austrolejeunea from subalpine habitats, and brings to seven the number of Austrolejeunea species known from New Zealand.
10.2307/3244227| Two neglected species of the genus Ptychomitrium, P. microblastum (C. Muell.) Par. and P. deltori (Thr.) Broth. are described and illustrated in detail. Examination of type specimens of Ptychomitrium revealed that Ptychomitrium eurybasis Dix. and P. neocaledonicum (Broth. & Par.) Card, are new synonyms of P. microblastum (C. Muell.) Par., and P. drouhardii Thr. is synonymous with P. deltorii (Thr.) Broth. The new synonymization enlarges the known ranges of P. microblastum and P. deltorii. Ptychomitrium microblastum is recorded for the first time from New Caledonia, Zimbabwe, and South Africa and P. deltorii from Madagascar. 
10.2307/3244049|From various lines of evidence, including handwriting, contemporary correspondence, and study of herbarium specimens, the holotype of Grevilleanum serratum, the name of a moss that dates from 1826, is shown to be a specimen in the Bryophyte Herbarium of the New York State Museum. The holotype of G. serratum is identical taxonomically to Timmia megapolitana Hedwig (1801), making the former name a taxonomic synonym of the latter. The bryological contributions of the authors of G. serratum, L. C. Beck and E. Emmons, are discussed. Beck's bryophyte herbarium, mentioned as the foundation of an evidently completed but unpublished early moss flora of the United States, has been located largely intact but unrecognized as such in the collections of the New York State Museum. Ebenezer Emmons, remembered today mainly for his significant contributions to stratigraphic geology, had only a passing interest in mosses; Lewis Beck, in contrast, worked extensively on mosses between about 1825 and the 1830s, although the results of his studies were largely unpublished.
20485813|Some species of Neckeropsis have leaf-like structures that develop on the perichaetia after fertilization of the archegonia. It has been suggested that these structures are either ligulate perichaetial leaves or multiseriate paraphyses. Using light microscopy, a detailed morphological and ontogenetic description was done for the paraphyses in the reproductive branches of N. disticha. Important developmental stages were also described for nine other species of Neckeropsis (N. exserta, N. lepineana, N. nitidula, N. obtusata, N. nano-disticha, N. crinita, N. undulata, N. fimbriata and N. andamana) to document the development of the different types of paraphyses. Transitions between uniseriate and multiseriate paraphyses were documented at different stages in the development of the fertilized branch. These were interpreted as a transition series similar to the heteroblastic sequence in branch leaves; where the uniseriate and multiseriate paraphyses correspond to the juvenile and mature stages, respectively. Of the nine species, five possess multiseriate paraphyses that are fully developed at different points of the progression series. In N. nano-disticha and N. crinita the paraphyses are thinner and fully developed at early mature stage, while in N. undulata and N. disticha the fully developed paraphyses are narrowly ligulate and represent the middle mature stage in the developmental sequence. In Neckeropsis andamana and N. fimbriata the paraphyses are ligulate to lanceolate and correspond to the late mature stage. These results provide ontogenetic data for paraphyses, and could establish the states and direction of this character for a phylogenetic analysis.
10.2307/3242056|Eighteen species and one variety of Hepaticae are reported from the Black Hills of South Dakota. All are reported for the first time in the state.
10.2307/3240785|Seventeen species of Sphagnum are reported from an interior region of the Northwest Territories. Sphagnum perfoliatum is new to North America and others are very rare and of phytogeographic significance.
10.2307/3241283|Dicranella pacifica sp. n., closely related to D. varia, is of wide distribution in northwestern North America. A revision of the genera Dicranella, Anisothecium and Microdus is necessary before the generic status of the species is certain. The chromosome number is n = 15.
10.2307/3244434| The genus Lettauia is reported in North America from Tennessee, with the species L. santessonii Ihlen & Tnsberg sp. nov. and L. cladoniicola D. Hawksw. & R. Sant. The new species Lettauia santessonii, lichenicolous on Loxospora pustulata, is distinct from L. cladoniicola by the shorter and broader ascospores and larger apothecia. 
10.2307/3243144|Rectolejeunea pililoba (Spruce) Schust. ( = Lejeunea pililoba (Spruce) Schust.) was rediscovered recently in several south-central counties of Florida. These are the first collections of this tropical hepatic since the early decades of this century.
10.2307/3241923|Nine moss taxa are reported for the first time from Nebraska. Additional new county records are given for mosses infrequently collected in Nebraska.
10.2307/3243152|In Conocephalum conicum (L.) Dum., primary pit-fields are preferentially located on the lateral walls of the cells comprising the proximal half of the stalk of the carpocephalum.
10.2307/3242540| Aerobryopsis longissima (Doz. et Molk.) Fleisch, an epiphytic moss from New Caledonia, accumulates up to 7500 g/g chromium. This species is the first chromium accumulator reported for bryophytes. 
10.2307/3241307|Scanning electron microscope photographs are shown for leaf surfaces of seven genera and peristome teeth of 13 genera of mosses. Leaf papillae are examined in Amphidium, Tortula, Philonotis, and Braunia. The C-shaped papillae of Tortula are reinterpreted and previously unseen papillae are observed in Philonotis. Peristome studies include the thread-like teeth of Dawsonia, Saelania, Rhamphidium, and Tortula with the basal tube of the latter. Vertical elements are noted in Grimmia and Dicranum. A preperistome is represented in Calyptothecium, a median furrow in Callicostella, and variable striations in Campylodontium.
10.2307/3241571|Parmelia commensurata Hale, previously known only from tropical America, is reported from North Carolina and is new to North America. It produces norlobaridone and loxodin. A key is provided to differentiate P. commensurata from three morphologically similar but chemically different species, P. reticulata Tayl., P. simulans Hale, and P. diffractaica Essl.
10.2307/3242175| Fissidens nothotaxifolius from the islands of Kauai Lanai, Maui, Molokai and Oahu is described and illustrated. The species is allied with F. adelphinus Besch. from Japan and F. bushii (Card. & Thr.) Card. & Thr. from eastern North America. 
10.2307/3241388|Mosses modify soil conditions and thereby affect the distribution of certain arthropods. Under extreme environmental conditions (such as those that prevail in Antarctica) arthropod survival and abundance often depend upon the mosses present. Several liverworts and a moss are symbiotic on New Guinean beetles, apparently conferring a degree of protection to the insects. Flies are attracted to the capsules of some Splachnaceae and disseminate their spores. Representatives of the insect orders Collembola, Diptera, Hemiptera, Hymenoptera, and Orthoptera, and the acarine orders Cryptostigmata and Prostigmata are known to feed on mosses. Bryophytes, along with other cryptogams, often constitute the initial stages in the plant succession series in newly colonized habitats, and it is postulated that their associated faunas form similar stages in the faunal succession.
10.2307/3242982|The carbon isotope ratios were measured for six species of lichens and seven species of mosses in northern Michigan. All species appear to utilize C
10.2307/3243010|Plagiobryum zieri (Hedw.) Lindb., a rare circumboreal species, occurs disjunctively in the Huehuetenango province of Guatemala. The phytogeography of Plagiobryum species suggests several incidents of long-distance dispersal, for which spores remaining in tetrads may be a preadaptation. Other disjunctions involving Central American mosses are reviewed.
3244623|Four species of lichens are reported as new to South America, namely the cosmopolitan or bipolar Dermatocarpon polyphyllum and Xylographa abietina, and the austral Hypocenomyce australis and H. foveata. The following four taxa are reported for the first time for Argentina: Baeomyces rufus, Cystocoleus ebeneus, Lecanora intricate, and Placynthiella icmalea, and the range of Trapeliopsis granulose is extended to Tierra del Fuego.
10.2307/3240893|Forty-three species in the genus Leptogium are recognized in North America. Seven new species (L. erectum, L. rugosum, L. hirsutum, L. contortum, L. milligranum, L. floridanum, and L. arsenei) are described and two new combinations (L. furfuraceum and L. isidiosellum) are made. The history, morphology, geographical distribution, and ecology of the genus are discussed. Keys are provided and photographs of 36 species and distribution maps for 20 species are given.
10.2307/3242806|Observations of the calyptra, peristome, spores and a collection from Swain County, North Carolina, are reported for Fissidens appalachensis Zand.
10.2307/3243057|New North American localities of the rare moss Grimmia teretinervis Limpr. are reported for Ontario, Arkansas, Colorado and the Northwest Territories. Male plants, which were discovered for the first time in a northern Ontario collection, are described and illustrated.
3244661|Pretreatment with sucrose or abscisic acid is thought to afford protection for plant tissues during dehydration and freezing by increasing desiccation tolerance. It is possible that the natural desiccation tolerance exhibited by some mosses will provide adequate protection during cryopreservation. The aim of this study was to determine whether three mosses with differing levels of desiccation tolerance would survive and regenerate after cryopreservation without prior encapsulation and pretreatment. The species chosen were Bryum rubens Mitt. (desiccation tolerant), Cyclodictyon laetevirens (Hook. & Tayl.) Mitt. (desiccation intolerant), and Ditrichum cornubicum Paton (limited desiccation tolerance). Encapsulated and non-encapsulated protonemal samples were air dried for 18 days. After desiccation, 100% of B. rubens and 40% of D. cornubicum survived in both non-encapsulated and encapsulated samples. After freezing, 90-100% of B. rubens, and 30-20% of D. cornubicum survived in non-encapsulated and encapsulated samples, respectively, while C. laetevirens did not survive either dehydration or freezing. Cryopreservation reduced the growth rate of D. cornubicum and B. rubens. The reduction in growth rate of B. rubens was temporary, with that of encapsulated protonemata eventually exceeding controls. It was concluded from this study that the natural desiccation tolerance of some mosses would be adequate to allow them to survive cryopreservation without prior pretreatment.
10.2307/3242831|The Amazonian moss Syrrhopodon cymbifolius C. Muell., recently treated as a synonym of S. parasiticus (Brid.) Besch. var. parasiticus, is recognized as a distinct species; S. flexifolius Mitt., also recently treated as a synonym of S. p. var. parasiticus, is recognized as S. p. var. flexifolius (Mitt.) Reese, comb. et stat. nov.; it occurs in Amazonia and Costa Rica. Both taxa are described and illustrated. Marginal cilia and the variable ornamentation of leaf cells are illustrated for S. annotinus Reese & Griffin, an Amazonian endemic.
10.2307/3242471|Among natural populations of Parmelia caperata (L.) Ach. and P. rudecta Ach. in and around Ohio, certain patterns of chromium accumulation are apparent. Thalli in industrialized areas have higher chromium levels than thalli in non-industrialized areas. A lichen with a high chromium level will have significantly more chromium in the center of the thallus than in the periphery. Examination of herbarium material of the two species indicates that chromium levels in Ohio lichens have increased since 1893.
10.2307/3243290| Gyroweisia monterreia, sp. nov. (Pottiaceae) is described from the state of Nuevo Len, Mexico. It is distinguished from other species of the genus by the heteroicous inflorescence, narrow upper laminae, blunt leaf apices, rudimentary peristome, and rostrate operculum with cells in straight rows. 
10.2307/3242589|The fate of lichen colonies in five 0.25-m
10.2307/3242949| Six species of lichens are reported as new to the Svalbard archipelago: Aspicilia alphoplaca (Wahlenb. ap. Ach.) Poelt & Leuckert, Caloplaca nivalis (Krber) Th. Fr., Omphalina hudsoniana (Jenn.) Bigelow, Leptogium saturninum (Dicks.) Nyl., Phaeophyscia kairamoi (Vain.) Mob. and Pilophorus cereolus (Ach.) Th. Fr. Pilophorus robustus Th. Fr. and the lichenicolous fungus Pleospora hookeri (Borrer) Keissler with its host are reported as new to Spitsbergen. New localities are added for four rare lichens and one rare lichenicolous fungus. Distribution patterns and ecological preferences are discussed for these species and the well-known Neuropogon sulphureus. 
10.2307/3240597|Hybrid sporophytes, resulting from natural hybridization between Weissia controversa and Astomum ludovicianum, are intermediate in characteristics between those of the parents. Some of the hybrid sporophytes failed to produce spores while in others the spores were frequently deformed and were largely or completely sterile. The three North American species of Astomum are transferred to the genus Weissia.
10.2307/3241500|Variation in stem height, basal border length, and apex morphology are so great that the populations usually referred to the two species Groutiella apiculata and G. mucronifolia seem instead to be conspecific. The correct name for the widely distributed species is G. mucronifolia, while G. apiculata must be applied to a little-known Mexican species.
10.2307/3241920|Seligeria careyana sp. nov. is described as new from the Queen Charlotte Islands, in western Canada. It is distinguished by long subulate, linear leaves composed mostly of costa, emergent capsules and straight, short setae and is related to S. acutifolia, S. pusilla and S. cardotii.
3244882|Methods for characterizing the composition, biomass, and accumulation rates of harvestable epiphytic bryophytes in the understory of temperate forests have recently been developed, but have yet to be implemented in a much wider geographical area and adapted to provide estimates at the individual mat level. In response to regulatory need, we modified and implemented these methods in 27 50 + yr-old upland and riparian forest stands below 915 m to: a) characterize the composition of harvestable epiphytic bryophytes in central western Oregon, b) evaluate the compositional changes immediately following harvest, and c) retrospectively estimate minimum simple accumulation rates for harvestable bryophyte mats. Twenty-two bryophyte species, two lichens, and one vascular plant were found in a total of 433 sampled mats, dominated by Isothecium myosuroides, Neckera douglasii, Antitrichia curtipendula, Frullania tamarisci subsp. nisquallensis, and Porella navicularis. Harvest brought on significant shifts in the relative abundance of species primarily through the disproportionate removal of these species, which are commonly found in harvestable bryophyte mats throughout western Oregon. The minimum simple accumulation rate for bryophyte mats from 13 of these stands, calculated as the oven-dried mat mass per unit surface area divided by the stem age, was 22.4 (std 15.5) g/m
3244942|The sectional subdivision of the North American Plagiochila is largely based on Schusters' comprehensive treatments of the genus. Here we summarize the results of recent morphological, molecular, and chemical work and present an updated section and species list. Internal Transcribed Spacer sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA are used to clarify the sectional position of the Western Holarctic endemic Plagiochila austinii (member of the Asian sect. Trabeculatae) and to confirm the recently proposed synonymy of Plagiochila sciophila and P. euryphyllon. North American Plagiochila are subdivided into the sects. Arrectae, Cucullatae, Peculiares, Plagiochila, Rutilantes, Trabeculatae, and Vagae.
10.2307/3241126|Twenty-six species in 13 genera of lichens are reported as new to the flora of British Columbia.
10.2307/3242933|The recovery of net photosynthetic (NP) activity following pretreatment desiccation of 4, 24, 72, and 240 hr duration is described for thalli of Cora pavonia E. Fries from the cloud/mist zone of La Soufriere. Rates of NP activity (as measured by rates of CO
10.2307/3242050|The SO
10.2307/3243642|The complete development of sperm from spermatid is described at the ultrastructural level in the bryalean moss Aulacomnium palustre. Blepharoplast ontogeny is characterized by the positioning and growth of basal bodies in synchrony with development of an underlying four-layered multilayered structure (MLS). Fully-developed basal bodies are dimorphic and staggered in position. The anterior basal body (ABB) is located over an aperture in the spline, the microtubular backbone of the cell. The posterior basal body is unlike any examined heretofore in that it extends anterior to the ABB and MLS. The two mitochondria in the mature cell are formed by fusion of numerous small mitochondria in the young spermatid and subsequent division of the single organelle into an anterior mitochondrion (AM) and a posterior mitochondrion (PM). The AM is associated with numerous oil droplets and microbodies (presumably glyoxisomes) and is located subjacent to the blepharoplast. The PM and single plastid form the Nebenkern in the posterior region of the cell Nuclear shaping and condensation occur in register with growth of the spline microtubules. In the final stages of differentiation, the AM elongates alongside the condensed nucleus and the PM recedes from around the plastid. These events, accompanied by elimination of extraneous cytoplasm, lead to a narrow elongated mature sperm.
10.2307/3240630|The hepatic flora of a canyon in north-central Arizona is composed of 12 species, seven of which have not previously been reported from the state.
10.2307/3243426|Previous studies have indicated that similar species-area curves can be expected in undisturbed saxicolous lichen communities despite differences in species composition and location. However, significant differences in the regression parameters of these curves, especially the slope of the log S/log A line, were found to be caused by disturbance. In an attempt to investigate the possible reasons for this difference, random communities were assembled using species composition data from three natural saxicolous lichen communities differing in the level of disturbance. These random communities had the same percent coverage of species and bare area as their natural counterparts; however, the spatial distribution of species was randomized. For the undisturbed locations, the random communities had significantly steeper log S/log A regression lines than natural communities. However, no significant difference between random and natural species-area curves was observed for the community simplified by pollution. These results suggest that simplification results in alterations of community composition that make it more random. They also suggest that undisturbed natural saxicolous lichen communities are assemblages regulated not by random processes, but rather by interactions that limit the number of species that can co-occur in the habitat.
10.2307/3243117|The first detailed observations of Sphagnum colonization on the floor of a coniferous forest are used to evaluate the process of forest paludification. The forest, which is dominated by Picea sitchensis, is situated on a Neoglacial terminal moraine near the mouth of Glacier Bay in southeastern Alaska. The observations span a period of 14 years and have shown that (a) Sphagnum girgensohnii is the first peat moss to colonize the thick moss carpet on the floor of this forest, (b) establishment occurs only where the moss carpet has been disturbed by tree falls, (c) the number of Sphagnum patches in this forest is increasing with time, and (d) the patches are enlarging in surface area about 2% per year. As these changes occur on the forest floor, S. mendocinum and S. squarrosum are invading wet depressions and ponds in this forest. These events seem to result from soil-formation processes that are causing the water table to rise. The rate of local paludification will be affected directly, through the rise in the water table, as a water-tight seal forms within the stratified drift, and indirectly, as Sphagnum growth is stimulated by proximity to water. Investigations in this forest, at other places in Glacier Bay National Park, and elsewhere in southeastern Alaska suggest that colonization by Sphagnum takes place from 175 to 600 or more years following the initiation of primary succession. The development of muskeg vegetation through autogenic processes may take from 800 to several thousand years, or possibly much less if allogenic factors contribute to the paludification process.
10.2307/3240804|Grimmia tenera Zett. (syn. G. tenuicaulis Williams) is redescribed and illustrated following the discovery of fruiting plants in Canada. Its systematic position and North American distribution are discussed.
10.2307/3244461|New localities are reported for Paulia aldabrensis, P. myriocarpa, P. perforata, and P. schroederi, all being new to the lichen flora of Socotra (Yemen, Indian Ocean). The lichens have been found in shaded sites mainly on steep limestone rock surfaces. The new records of Paulia species from Socotra are included in a discussion of distributional patterns in the genus. From the isolated and disjunctive distributions it is concluded that the Paulia species are palaeoendemics in arid to semi-arid tropical habitats with their origin on the Gondwana continent or even earlier on the pre-Gondwana center of Pangaea.
10.2307/3241200| Eleven morphogenetic patterns of branch formation are presently recognized in the leafy Hepaticae. Five of these patterns-the athecal Frullania, Microlepidozia, Acromastigum, Radula, and Fontinalis branching types-result in branches that diverge from the main axis at 45-60 and lack collars, while six patterns-the gyrothecal Bryopteris, Lejeunea, Adventive Radula, Bazzania, Plagiochila, and Anomoclada branching types-produce branches that diverge from the main axis at 90 and possess various types of collars. Since these developmental patterns appear to be stable, genetically controlled characteristics, knowledge of them can aid the morphologist, systematist, and evolutionary botanist in interpreting morphological characters, taxonomic relationships, and phylogenetic trends in various leafy hepatic genera. To facilitate easy recognition of these differing patterns of branch formation and thereby increase their usefulness, this rsum of branching information provides a dichotomous key to the eleven patterns of branch development. Brief diagnostic descriptions of all developmental patterns are complemented by illustrations depicting the critical stages of development and a series of comparative diagrams typifying major morphological distinctions. 
40982985|Sixteen new records (four liverworts and 12 mosses) are added to the bryoflora of Lebanon. Outstanding among the new records are Saccogyna viticulosa and Tritomaria polita, both new to the bryoflora of South-West Asia, and the range extension of Philonotis laxitexta, previously known only from Iran. The new records increase the number of bryophytes known from Lebanon to 252 (two hornworts, 43 liverworts and 207 mosses).
20485784|Tortella bambergeri (Schimp.) Broth. is reported for the first time from northern and central-eastern Spain in the Iberian Peninsula. Diagnostic characters and differentiation from other closely related Iberian Tortella taxa are discussed. Furthermore, a map of the currently known distribution of T. bambergeri in Spain, illustrations of the species and an updated key to Iberian Tortella are provided.
10.2307/3241386|In scanning electron microscope studies on the leaves of Sphagnum imbricatum Hornsch. ex Russ. comparisons between untreated and gold-coated material showed the latter preferable for observations. Pore aperture ultrastructural anatomy previously unreported upon is described. The role of differential shrinkage in the rupture of the covering membrane of hyaline cell pores is considered. Evidence for the shrinkage and furrowing of the outer walls of chlorophyllose cells as drying proceeds is also presented.
20110771|The role of propagule availability in determining community composition is poorly understood, and is infrequently investigated for bryophytes. In addition the extent to which spore availability is limited by dispersal is unknown. If spore availability is not dispersal-limited, local and regional spore dispersal and wind availability may affect spore availability at any point. In this study, the abundance of Sphagnum spores was investigated within the context of a successional sequence where Sphagnum spp. invade a feather moss community in black spruce boreal forests of northwestern Qubec, Canada. Spores were trapped and grown in a greenhouse to protonemal stage to estimate the abundance of spores within three sites that varied in Sphagnum abundance, and stand density (a surrogate for wind intensity). Sporophyte production was also investigated in one site where individual Sphagnum colonies could be distinguished. Spores were less abundant in sites with less ground cover of Sphagnum present in the community, although spores were trapped in all sites. Spore abundance was inversely correlated with local stand density, indicating that wind intensity may play a role in limiting dispersal. Sporophytes were produced in colonies that were larger and had greater access to light. These results suggest that Sphagnum invasion into young dense forests may be partially limited by spore dispersal, although the availability of germination substrates may also play an important role.
10.2307/3243512|A new species from Bolivia, Sphagnum inretortum, is assigned to a new section of the genus-sect. Inretorta-because of branch leaves neither truncate nor toothed at the apex but margined by a resorption furrow and epidermal cells of branches uniform in shape and size and lacking pores.
10.2307/3243095|Recent taxonomic studies on the Lejeuneaceae subfamily Ptychanthoideae indicate that there are 59 species in 21 genera in Latin America. The ptychanthoid flora is very different from that of the Old World and has much fewer species but is slightly richer in endemic genera. About one third of the species are widespread neotropical elements, eleven species are transoceanic-wide tropical, and the remaining species have more restricted distributions and belong to the endemic, Caribbean, Amazonian or Andean element. Data on sex distribution in the species indicate that bisexuality in Ptychanthoideae is much more common than previously assumed. The biogeography of the transoceanic species is briefly discussed.
3244754|A new species in the formerly monotypic genus Vitalianthus is described from Amazonas State, Brazil. Vitalianthus urubuensis sp. n. exhibits leaves with an unbroken chain of ocelli, upright orientation of the underleaf lobes, and a 4-keeled perianth lacking horn-like projections; all features that distinguish the only other known member of this genus, V. bischleriana (Porto & Grolle) R. M. Schust. & Giancotti. Differences between V. urubuensis and V. bischleriana are most evident in leaf and lobule morphology. The discovery of this new species in central Amazonia dramatically expands the geographic range of Vitalianthus, a taxon once considered endemic to the coastal rainforests of northeastern Brazil.
10.2307/3241970|Twenty-one species of mosses are newly reported from Nebraska and eight species from the Black Hills of South Dakota. Additional records are provided for Nebraska and the Black Hills of South Dakota and Wyoming. Five previously reported species are deleted from the Nebraska moss flora.
10.2307/3242799|Gymnostomiella orcuttii Bartr. was discovered recently in the western Minas Gerais State, Brazil. This is the first collection of this calcicolous species in South America.
3244614|1) Miriquidica leucophaeoides (syn. Lecidea leucophaeoides Nyl.) is proposed as a new combination. 2) The following taxa are synonyms (correct names in parenthesis): Lecidea aglaeida Nyl. (= Calvitimela aglaea), Lecidea cheiloplaca Vain. (= Miriquidica deusta), Lecidea chlorophanoides H.Magn. in Malme ( = Candelariella vitellina), Lecidea confluens f. refluens Vain. (= Lecidea confluens), Lecidea declinans f. subsculptella Nyl. (= Lecidea lapicida var. lapicida), Lecidea konyamensis Nyl. (= Miriquidica leucophaeoides), Lecidea lenensis Oxner (= Calvitimela aglaea), Lecidea lugubrior Nyl. (= Clauzadeana macula), Lecidea melapsepha Nyl. (= Cecidonia xenophana), Lecidea reducens Vain. (= Lecidea lapicida var. lapicida), Lecidea subfumosa (Arnold) Zwackh f. melanocarpa Vain. (= Rhizocarpon polycarpum), Lecidea subfumosa f. poliocarpa Vain. (= Lecidea atrobrunnea: chemorace 0), Lecidea subtristiuscula Nyl. (= Miriquidica leucophaeoides). 3) Lectotypes were chosen for Lecidea konyamensis Nyl., Lecidea lygotropa Nyl., Lecidea reducens Vain., Lecidea subfumosa f. melanocarpa Vain., Lecidea subfumosa f. poliocarpa Vain., Lecidea subtristiuscula Nyl. 4) New records are documented for: Cecidonia umbonella (new to Beringian Alaska), Cecidonia xenophana (new to Asia), Lecidea confluentula (new to Asia), Lecidea ecrustacea (new to Beringian Alaska), Lecidea lapicida (new to Kamchatka), Lecidea paupercula (new to Kamchatka and to Beringian Alaska), Lecidea plana (new to Alaska and Kamchatka), Lecidea swartzioidea (new to Kamchatka), Lecidea umbonata (new to Chukotka), Miriquidica deusta (new to Alaska), Miriquidica leucophaeoides (new to Alaska and Taimyr), Rimularia impavida (new to Alaska), and Schaereria fuscocinerea (new to mainland Alaska).
10.2307/3242983|A recent collection of Rhabdodontium buftonii (Broth. & Geh. in Broth.) Broth. is reported from a site in northern Tasmania about one hundred miles north of the only two previous collections. Examination of the three known collections requires corrections in the original description: the plant grows submerged in rapidly flowing water; has only a very short prostrate axis; has prorate cells in the upper lamina; and has a basally bistratose leaf lamina. On the basis of these and other observations, very tentative agreement is expressed with the traditional placement of this monotypic genus in the Pterobryaceae.
10.2307/3242469|Six species of Pleuroweisieae, Anoectangium aestivum (Hedw.) Mitt., Molendoa sendtneriana (B.S.G.) Limpr., Hymenostylium recurvirostrum (Hedw.) Dix., Gymnostomum aeruginosum Sm., G. valerianum (Bartr.) Zander and Eucladium verticillatum (Brid.) B.S.G., including several with extensive synonymy, are present in Middle America. Four species also found in Europe and Asia, are polytypic, separable by unique combinations of modalities in mostly clinal character states. Infraspecific taxa are not distinguishable because of highly plastic phenotypes. Certain morphological variation is associated with a large-small stature gradient. Weak geographic segregates of two species are disjunctive between the West Indies and eastern Asia. The Pleuroweisieae is probably a phylogenetically heterogeneous group. Two combinations in Gyroweisia are synonyms of Husnotiella obtusifolia, comb. nov.
3244851|Strepsilejeunea boliviensis Steph., a rare species endemic to Bolivia, bears eplicate perianths, emarginate to shortly bilobed apices of underleaves, and usual presence of blunt second tooth of the leaf lobule. It is transferred to the genus Lejeunea, primarily based on the large leaf cells and proximal hyaline papilla.
10.2307/3241534|Two species of Parmelia from India, P. simplicior (sect. Imbricaria) and P. thryptica (sect. Hypotrachyna), and two from the Philippines, P. baguioensis (sect. Imbricaria) and P. filipina (sect. Cylocheila), are described as new.
10.2307/3242564|Anacamptodon splachnoides (Froehl. ex Brid.) Brid., heretofore thought to be restricted to bark and wood, was discovered on moist rock surfaces on the Tennessee side of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. This is apparently the first record of this moss on rocks. The surrounding vegetation and the general environment are discussed.
10.2307/3241518|Some 871 epithets of lichens have been reported for New Mexico. After the list is reduced by removing synonyms and misidentifications, 641 taxa remain-505 species in 75 genera, 2 subspecies, 73 varieties, and 61 forms. The catalog is based on reports in 117 papers. The 104 taxa originally described from New Mexico are also listed.
3244780|The lichen collection assembled by Dr. Henry Imshaug at the herbarium of Michigan State University (MSC) is described. It is not only one of the largest in North America, but is notable also for its geographic range, including important collections from the Caribbean and several southern hemisphere island groups. Until recently this collection was not readily accessible, but it is now fully available to researchers through loans and visits.
23321070|Parmelina quercina is a well-studied foliose macro-lichen found on rocks and trees in the Northern Hemisphere. Recent studies support multiple species within P. quercina based on material from Europe, North America and western Asia. The identities of Parmelina quercina s.lat. reported from eastern Asia and Alaska remain unknown. We compared DNA sequences, secondary chemistry and morphological traits of Parmelina from Alaska, Russia and China. These data support the resurrection of Parmelina yalungana to accommodate eastern Asian and Alaskan material. Parmelina yalungana differs from congeners in ascospore dimensions, geographic range and molecular data from three gene loci. We place P. yalungana in the phylogenetic context of the P. quercina group using DNA from Alaskan and Russian material.
10.2307/3243586|A new checklist of the lichen-forming, lichenicolous, and allied fungi occurring in the continental United States and Canada is presented. It contains 3,580 lichen species and an additional 219 species of lichenicolous and allied fungi, for a total of 3,799 species in 477 genera. The following taxa are reported as new to North America: Arthonia linitae, Buellia adjuncta, Buelliella physciicola, Cornutispora intermedia, Diploschistes candidissimus, Epicladonia simplex, Fulgensia bracteata subsp. deformis, Graphium aphthosae, Homostegia piggotii, Leproloma membranaceum var. chrysodectoides, Lettauia cladoniicola, Lichenostigma maureri, Melaspilea epigena, Nectria lecanodes, Polycoccum vermicularium, Sphaerulina dolichotera, Thelotrema suecicum, Vouauxiella lichenicola, and Xanthoria fulva. Also, three new combinations are proposed: Lecanora albella var. rubescens (Imshaug & Brodo) Lumbsch, Lichinella melamphylla (Tuck.) Essl., and Lichinella minnesotensis (Fink) Essl.
10.2307/3240600| Hypoprotocetraric acid, a depsidone of the -orcinol type recently found in a race of Ramalina siliquosa, can be identified by microcrystal tests and by chromatography. This substance replaces protocetraric acid in individuals in some populations of Ramalina farinacea in France. 
10.2307/3241362|The thallus forms of Metzgeria imberbis Jack & Steph. of Argenti and M. effusa Steph. of Brazil are correlated with sexuality. The tapered or whiplike forms of the apices are characteristic of male plants; the obtuse and typically hollowed form, or the one somewhat tapered but never lacking a lamina, are characteristic of female plants. In both species the male plants are considerably smaller than the female ones.
10.2307/3241088|A study of some 700 specimens of Baeomyces showed five species in North America. The species are described and their distributions mapped. Baeomyces absolutus and B. roseus contain baeomycic acid, B. rufus and B. placophyllus contain stictic acid, and B. carneus contains norstictic acid. One anomalous specimen of B. absolutus produced substances resembling the constituents called "F" and "G" in the chemistry of the genus Cladonia.
10.2307/3242977|Elemental compositions of two epiphytic Okefenokee Swamp lichens, Usnea and Parmelia, were examined. Differences between the two genera are ascribed to morphological and metabolic characteristics. These lichens occupy the same habitat in Okefenokee; therefore, elemental composition should reflect niche separation that allows the two genera to coexist. The fruticose lichen, Usnea, appears to depend more on atmospheric wetfall than dryfall, having higher concentrations of dominant precipitation elements (Na, Ca, Mg). The foliose lichen, Parmelia, appears to depend more on atmospheric dryfall than wetfall, having higher concentrations of dustfall elements (P, Si, Al, Fe, Zn, K). Substrate composition affects both lichens through either stemflow or direct substrate uptake. Elemental concentrations in Okefenokee lichens are similar to those of epiphytic lichens found elsewhere. Differences between genera are greater than differences between locations in Okefenokee.
10.2307/3241871|Hookeria wrightii Sull. & Lesq. is a member of the genus Stenodictyon and S. sericeum Bartr. is a synonym. The combination Stenodictyon wrightii (Sull. & Lesq.) Crosby is made.
10.2307/3242519| The lichen species Anzia ornata (Zahlbr.) Asah., Chiodecton montagnaei Tuck., C. sanguineum (Sw.) Vain., Leptotrema polycarpum Mll. Arg., L. santense (Tuck.) Zahlbr., Ocellularia americana Hale, Parmotrema haitiense (Hale) Hale, P. robustum (Degel.) Hale, Thelotrema sanfordianum Zahlbr., Xanthoparmelia hypomelaena (Hale) Hale, X. plittii (Gyeln.) Hale, X. subramigera (Gyeln.) Hale, X. tinctina (Mah. & Gill.) Hale, X. tuesonensis (Nash) Egan, and the genus Roccella are reported for the first time from Texas. Additional Texas records for Dirinaria aspera (Magn.) Awas., Parmotrema endosulphureum (Hillm.) Hale and X. dierythra (Hale) Hale are also listed. A key to the 17 presently reported Texas Xanthoparmeliae is included. 
20061118|In North America, the common and abundant coastal, corticolous species currently known as Parmotrema rigidum (Lynge) Hale, is shown to be morphologically distinct from the South American type and other South American representatives of the species based on both ascospore and conidial size. We describe the North American taxon as Parmotrema subrigidum Egan sp. nov., recognizing two chemical strains, one with atranorin and alectoronic acid and a second with atranorin, alectoronic, and norstictic acids.
20110898|Desiccation-tolerance (DT), the ability to lose virtually all free intracellular water and then recover normal function upon rehydration, is one of the most remarkable features of bryophytes. The physiology of bryophytes differs in major respects from that of vascular plants by virtue of their smaller size; unlike vascular plants, the leafy shoots of bryophytes equilibrate rapidly with the water potential in their surroundings and tend to be either fully hydrated or desiccated and metabolically inactive. The time required to recover from desiccation increases and degree of recovery decreases with length of desiccation; both also depend upon temperature and intensity of desiccation. Tolerance in at least some species shows phenotypic plasticity. Recovery of respiration, photosynthesis and protein synthesis takes place within minutes or an hour or two; recovery of the cell cycle, food transport and the cytoskeleton may take 24 hours or more. Positive carbon balance is essential to survival of repeated cycles of drying and wetting; significant growth requires continuously wet periods of a few days or more. Male and female gametophytes, and gametophyte and sporophyte, may differ in tolerance. Desiccation-tolerance is essential to dispersal and establishment of spores and vegetative propagules. The mechanisms of DT in bryophytes, including expression of LEA proteins, high content of non-reducing sugars and effective antioxidant and photo-protection, are at least partly constitutive, allowing survival of rapid drying, but changes in gene expression resulting from mRNA sequestration and alterations in translational controls elicited upon rehydration are also important to repair processes following re-wetting. Phylogenetic and ecological considerations suggest that DT is a primitive character of land plants, lost in the course of evolution of the homoiohydric vascular-plant shoot system, but retained in spores, pollen and seeds, and re-evolved in the vegetative tissues of vascular "resurrection plants." Bryophytes have retained the poikilohydry and DT that are probably the optimal pattern of adaptation at their scale, but modern bryophytes are specialized and diverse, and are removed by the same span of evolutionary time as the flowering plants from their primitive origins.
10.2307/3242148|Anacolia menziesii is reported as new to Colorado. New characters and a key distinguish it from the superficially similar Bartramia stricta, which is to be deleted from the known flora of Colorado.
20485820|A second species of Krogia is described from six localities in the West Indies (Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago). It differs from K. coralloides mainly in the shape of the squamules and in the presence of 4-O-methylcryptochlorophaeic acid. Eschatogonia minuta, intermingled in one collection, is new to the West Indies (Trinidad).
10.2307/3240626| New reports for the Colorado flora are made for 55 mosses and 28 hepatics. Major range extensions are given for Bryum sandbergii Holz., Grimmia agassizii (Sull. & Lesq.) Lesq. & James, G. tenuicaulis Wilt, Hydrogrimmia mollis (B.S.G.) Loeske, Hylocomium pyrenaicum (Spruce) Lindb., Timimia norvegica Zett., Blasia pusilla (L.) Mich., Gymnomitrium coralloides Nees, Saccobasis polita (Nees) Buch, and Scapania hyperborea Joerg. A complete rsum is given of the American records for Cnestrum schistii (Wahlenb.) Hagen. 
43188699|The new genus Austroroccella Tehler & Ertz is described to incorporate one species A. gayana (Mont.) Tehler & Ertz comb. nov. (= Roccella gayana Mont.). Austroroccella gayana is very similar to the fruticose species in Roccellina Darb., as well as to many saxicolous species in the fruticose genus Roccella DC., but differs from these genera by the epruinose dark or black discs and the sole presence of roccellic acid. Molecular data places it in an isolated position with a long branch in the family Roccellaceae in a highly supported clade including the genera Dendrographa Darb., Syncesia Taylor and Roccellina.
20110922|Based on a study of 22 sites in northeastern Brazil, including the three main vegetation types, coastal Mata Atlntica (Zona da Mata), Caatinga and Brejos de Altitude (rain forest enclaves in Caatinga areas), we studied the distribution and habitat preferences of 456 crustose and microfoliose lichen species. Alpha-diversity ranged between three and 99 species per site, with Zona da Mata and Brejos de Altitude showing higher numbers than Caatinga sites. Beta-diversity (dissimilarity) was highest between Zona da Mata sites and, as a whole, the Zona da Mata showed the highest gamma-diversity, with a total of 334 species. Site ordination by non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS), as well as cluster analysis, both using Srensen's coefficient of dissimilarity, show that Zona da Mata and Caatinga sites have distinctive lichen species compositions, with the isolated Brejos de Altitude being more similar to coastal Zona da Mata than to Caatinga sites. Exposed Zona da Mata sites have certain species in common with Caatinga sites but overall cluster with the Zona da Mata sites. The transitional Agreste vegetation (one study site) also appears transitional between Zona da Mata and Caatinga in its lichen species composition. Indicator species analysis for each vegetation type was performed by applying a Monte-Carlo test. Other than ten ubiquitous taxa (found in all three vegetation types), 59 taxa were shared between Zona da Mata and Brejos de Altitude, 20 between Zona da Mata and Caatinga, and none between Brejos de Altitude and Caatinga. Dissimilarity values of Zona da Mata versus Brejos de Altitude sites were high (0.77 or 23% shared species on average), as were those of Zona da Mata versus Caatinga sites (average of 0.92 or 8% shared species). Zona da Mata lichens had a higher proportion of Arthoniomycetidae (Arthoniales: Arthoniaceae, Roccellaceae) and Chaetothyriomycetidae (Pyrenulales: Pyrenulaceae), as well as Porinaceae and Thelotremataceae; frequently trentepohlioid photobionts, predominantly transversely septate and/or narrow ascospores, and lack of lichen substances. Brejos de Altitude lichens showed a higher proportion of Dothideomycetiae (Trypetheliaceae) and Ostropomycetidae (Ostropales: Gomphillaceae and Graphidaceae), as well as Pilocarpaceae; ascospores were predominantly thick-walled or muriform and hyaline. Caatinga sites were dominated by Lecanoromycetidae (Lecanorales: Lecanoraceae; Teloschistales: Physciaceae) and Pertusariales (Pertusariaceae); taxa were chiefly associated with chlorococcoid photobionts, ascospores were megalosporous, non-septate and/or brown, and showed a predominance of certain cortical substances (atranorin, lichexanthone other xanthones, pulvinic acid derivates), as well as norstictic acid as medullary substance.
10.2307/3242797|Breutelia subarcuata (C. Muell.) Schimp. in Besch. and B. chrysea (C. Muell.) Jaeg. are sympatric through much of their respective ranges, and, because of similar vegetative morphologies, sterile collections of these species have often been confused. A study of fertile and sterile collections of both species, including the types, reveals that these species can be distinguished on the basis of sporophyte morphology and leaf shape. Breutelia chrysea is reported as new to Mexico, Guatemala and Bolivia.
41289758|The first ever liverwort and hornwort checklist is provided for Jamaica. We report 332 taxa in 314 species, 14 of which are invalid, illegitimate or in orphaned genera but we do not know where to place them. An additional 16 of the reported taxa are rejected as erroneously reported from Jamaica. The list is based on over 270 literature references, including monographs, regional studies, and molecular investigations. Except for a few early works in the 18 <sup>th</sup> and early 19 <sup>th</sup> century, and a scattering of other studies, the liverwort and hornwort flora of Jamaica has received negligible attention, despite its apparent diversity. The knowledge of the liverwort and hornwort flora, both in Jamaica and regionally in the Caribbean, remains so poor it is too early to reliably comment about range-restricted or endemic species. We predict that a number of new records remain to be reported, based on regionally widespread species that have been recorded elsewhere. On the other hand, it is envisaged that a number of the taxa presented here maybe synonyms of other taxa as they are taxonomically insufficiently known. As a consequence, Anastrophyllum harrisanum Steph. is reduced to a new synonym of A. tubulosum (Nees) Grolle.
10.2307/3241522|High-speed liquid chromatography is a recently devised method for the analysis of compounds that cannot be studied by gas chromatography, either because these are not sufficiently volatile or are too unstable at elevated temperatures. Preliminary results indicate that many aromatic secondary lichen products are not amenable to gas-chromatographic analysis. Construction of a simple high-speed liquid chromatograph that will effectively analyze crude extracts of lichen fragments is described. This method should permit 1) rapid quantitative estimations of substances in crude extracts, 2) isolations of pure substances from small amounts of complex mixtures, and 3) separations of compounds difficult to resolve by thin-layer chromatography.
10.2307/3241916|Even though it represents a most remarkable disjunction in geographical range, Pterygoneurum arcticum Steere of Arctic regions has been found to be a form of P. lamellatum (Lindb.) Jur., which is otherwise known in North America only from southern Arizona and from Utah. As a consequence, P. arcticum becomes a synonym of P. lamellatum.
43188697|The monotypic genus Schroeterella including its species S. zygodonta are known only from the type collection from Bolivia; we now report a new record from Brazil. Also a new species of Schroeterella from Ecuador is here described. Both species can be differentiated by the shape and size of the capsule and seta length. Schroeterella is very difficult to recognize when sterile, so it is likely to be misidentified.
40732272|Rhodobryum (Schimp.) Limpr. is studied for Argentina, based on herbarium specimens and on specimens collected during field expeditions from 2005 to 2008. Two species are recognized for the Argentinian bryological flora. Rhodobryum beyrichianum (Hornsch.) Mull. Hal. is widely distributed in the mountainous areas of northern Argentina and is a new record for the provinces of Corrientes, Tucuman and Salta. Rhodobryum subverticillatum Broth, is reported for the first time for Argentina; it occurs in Jujuy and Salta provinces. Rhodobryum roseolum (Mull.Hal.) Paris, known from a single Argentinian specimen, is excluded from the flora and synonymized with & beyrichianum. Rhodobryum aubertii (Schwgr.) Brid. and R. roseum (Hedw.) Limpr. are excluded from the bryoflora of Argentina. The status of R. platense (Mull. Hal.) Paris remains obscure; it possibly is not a species of Rhodobryum. Key, descriptions, illustrations, SEM photographs and distribution maps are provided, and habitat ecology and the distribution in Argentina and total distribution are given. Rhodobryum ontariense (Kindb.) Kindb. is recorded first time for Bolivia and Peru. Rhodobryum dentatum (Ochi) T. J. Kop. & Fuertes is a new combination and lectotype is selected for Bryum hieronymi Mll. Hal.
3244776|We sought a simple and effective transplant method that could be used to measure biomass accumulation rates of epiphytic bryophytes. Trials were carried out in the Pseudotsuga menziesii-dominated forests of western Oregon. We tested multiple transplant methods over a 13-month period while comparing accumulation rates of Antitrichia curtipendula (Hedw.) Brid. and Isothecium myosuroides Brid. among an old-growth stand, a young stand, and a recent clearcut. In our study area, Antitrichia is considered to be an old-growth associate while Isothecium is a more ubiquitous species. Methods tested included containment in net bags, containment in hairnets, and directly tying mats to substrates. Three sizes of transplants were tested with both natural and inert artificial substrates. Transplants of approximately five g enclosed in plastic net bags and tied to either natural or artificial substrates worked well for our purposes. Only minor differences were found in mean accumulation rates between the old growth and young stand, though variation in accumulation rates was higher in the old growth. Neither species appeared capable of surviving in the clearcut. Antitrichia accumulated biomass 60% faster in the canopy than in the understory on average. Antitrichia also accumulated at a faster rate than Isothecium, with mean 13-month biomass increases of 11.8 and 3.7% respectively for 5 g transplants in the understory. Our results suggest that Antitrichia's association with old growth may be due more to dispersal or establishment limitations than to a decreased ability to grow in young stands.
10.2307/3243638|Sphagnum majus subsp. norvegicum and S. subtile are reported for the first time in the Iberian Peninsula from a mountain mire in northwestern Spain. Chemical parameters, algae, bryophytes, and vascular plants were determined. Chemical data and vegetation served to classify the mire as a poor fen although some of its plant species can be regarded as weakly minerotrophic.
10.2307/3241838|Three species of pyrenocarpous lichens (Trichothelium epiphyllum, T. annulatum and Phylloblastia dolichospora) from the Andamans are described and illustrated. All are new for the lichen-flora of India. Perithecial morphology of P. dolichospora is interesting and is different from that of other pyrenocarpous lichens.
10.2307/3243587|The taxonomy, distribution, and ecology of five species of Chaenothecopsis and three species of Mycocalicium growing on exudate of vascular plants are described. The species occur in both temperate and tropical areas of Eurasia, India, the Americas, and New Zealand. They are often quite specific with respect to substrate and have been recorded from a variety of trees: Abies, Larix, Mangifera, Picea, Pinus, Schefflera, Sequoia, Sequoiadendron, and Tristerix. A key to the species is supplied. Two new species, C. dolichocephala Titov and C. resinicola Tibell & Titov, occurring in the far east of Russia, are described.
10.2307/3242483|Fissidens hoei is described from a specimen collected on Oahu. The species is closest to F. elegans Brid.
3244915|Substrate specificity has been pinpointed as key to understanding plant species distributions and to differentiating types of plant rarity. Substrate specific distribution patterns (e.g., calcicole and calcifuge) are particularly prevalent among bryophytes. Many authors have suggested that the effects of substrate chemistry might be most important during the establishment stage. The connection between substrate sensitivity during establishment and the degree of substrate specificity (i.e., substrate breadth) measured for adult plants in the field was explored for three rare moss species, Mielichhoferia macrocarpa, Didymodon johansenii, and Mnium arizonicum and three taxonomically allied common species, Bryum pseudotriquetrum, Didymodon rigidulus var. gracilis, and Mnium spinulosum, respectively. Substrate pH and organic matter content were determined for field samples to quantify species substrate breadths. These observed specificities were tested by comparing regeneration of gametophyte fragments on native and chemically opposite, non-native substrates. The three rare species were not consistently more substrate specific than their paired common species. Overall, establishment was higher on native substrates. The two moss species, M. macrocarpa and D. rigidulus var. gracilis, with the narrowest substrate breadths for pH and percent organic matter, were also the most sensitive to regeneration on non-native substrate. The significantly higher sensitivity of these two calcicole species in comparison with the other study species demonstrated that these calcicole species were more immediately sensitive to regeneration on non-native substrates than the calcifuge species, M. arizonicum and M. spinulosum and the calcicole species found on substrates with a wider range of organic content, B. pseudotriquetrum and D. johansenii, were less sensitive to substrate chemistry during regeneration. The use of regeneration experiments for exploring the degree and basis of species habitat specificities can help to resolve which habitat parameters physiologically limit the species. Information gained from such studies could be particularly useful for managing rare bryophyte populations.
10.2307/3240490|The new genus and species Bartleya ohioensis (Dicranaceae) are described from Ohio, and the new species Bryum reedii is described from Maryland. Bryum tenuisetum Limpr. is reported from New York and Ditrichum henryi Crum & Anderson is reduced to synonymy under D. rhyncostegium Kindb.
10.2307/3241963|In the region around the Four Corners Power Plant of New Mexico, 159 lichen species in 40 genera are recorded. Although the power plant has operated over 10 years, no marked gradient in species composition or lichen cover data were evident in relation to the power plant. Eight desert lichen species are shown to be sensitive to 0.5 ppm SO
10.2307/3241013|Dicranum leioneuron Kindb. - a little known, somewhat suboceanic moss - is reported as new to the British Isles and Labrador and new localities are listed from Norway and Finland. Its sporophyte, not described before, compares more closely to that of D. bonjeanii De Not. than that of D. scoparium Hedw., but the differences are small. Attention is paid to the apparently poor development of the spores and capsules of D. leioneuron, although the reasons for this are not clear.
43188730|Pyrenula sanguinea Aptroot, M. Cceres & Lcking is described from branches of trees in Amazonian rain forest in the state of Rondnia, Brazil. It is characterized by bright red, pseudostromatic ascomata with fused walls, closely resembling those of Trypethelium eluteriae and related species except for the color. The brown ascospores deviate from those of most other Pyrenula species by their reduced endospore formation; they are surrounded by a thick gelatinous sheath with horn-like and curled appendages at the tips. Although morphologically very distinct from all other known species of Pyrenula, molecular data of the mtSSU and nuLSU loci revealed that it is nested within that genus, with a strongly supported sistergroup relationship with P. cruenta. Both species share the bright red color of ascomata, but cochromatography revealed a distinct, complex pattern for P. sanguinea, with six different pigments, only haematommone shared with P. cruenta.
10.2307/3241387| The genera Melanaria and Pertusaria (Pertusariaceae) have been distinguished primarily by spore pigmentation, the spores of Melanaria being olive-green and those of Pertusaria being hyaline. The developmental stages of asci and spores of Melanaria macounii var. meizotoca Lamb closely parallel those of Pertusaria pertusa (L.) Tuck. and P. pustulata (Ach.) Duby. However, the spores of Melanaria differ from those of Pertusaria in the development of an inner, reticulate, pigmented wall layer. Immature apothecia of M. macounii var. meizotoca have a dense, possibly meristematic, layer of hyphae across the upper portion of the lacunae. In mature apothecia the dense layer was found around the ostiole. No such layer has been found in Pertusaria. Apotheciai walls of Melanaria are quite thin, only 1-2 -wide in immature apothecia and 2-3 -wide in mature ones. Those of Pertusaria average 4-7 m. 
10.2307/3243323|The name Cladonia carassensis Vainio (Ascomycotina: Lecanorales) has been mistakenly associated with several taxa in Western North America. A very broad circumscription of C. carassensis worldwide has resulted in the neglect of several distinct and interesting taxa, and has obscured the understanding of their morphology, biology, and biogeography. Taxonomic concepts that have been applied to C. "carassensis" in western North America are discussed, including several Cladonia species with morphological affinities to section Perviae that possess a more or less continuous cortex and thamnolic or barbatic acid or both. Two new species, C. poroscypha and C. artuata, are described.
10.2307/3241952|Polytrichadelphus pseudo-polytrichum (Raddi) comb. nov. replaces P. semiangulatus (Brid.) Mitt.
10.2307/3244393|Following a large forest fire in July 1994 in the Chiricahua Mountains S.E. Arizona, sites for studying fire damage and recolonization of tree trunks by lichens were investigated. The objectives were to evaluate the effects of fire on lichen survival, and then to follow the course of recolonization. For initial assessment of damage, three lichen species, Hypotrachyna pulvinata (Fee) Hale, Flavopunctelia praesignis (Nyl.) Hale, and Punctelia hypoleucites (Nyl.) Krog were collected to measure CO
10.2307/3243151|Numerous occurrences of Grimmia anodon B.S.G. are confirmed for the western United States and Canada, but the species is rare in eastern North America. The species is newly reported for Quebec and verified for New Brunswick. Some of the eastern collections are from concrete, which is evidence of recent establishments.
10.2307/3240999|Bryophytes and lichens are reported from Whiteface Mountain, Wilmington Notch, and Mt. MacIntyre in Essex County in the Adirondack Mountains.
3244719|The McClelland Lake Wetland Complex is a large (3,481 ha), boreal, wetland complex dominated by peatlands located in northeastern Alberta, Canada. We intensively sampled the bryophyte flora in 44 sites chosen to capture all landscape features of the wetland. We furthermore partitioned these 44 sites into 67, structurally defined stands. One hundred and fourteen species of bryophytes (91 mosses and 23 hepatics) were found. Mean stand species richness is 16.6, with a range of 2-41 species. Thirty-nine species were recorded only 1-2 times in the 67 stands and these are defined as locally rare species. Additionally, 18 species were recorded that are currently on the Alberta Rare Species Tracking List (ANHIC), although commonness of some within the complex suggests regional under-collection. A strong relationship was found between species richness and locally rare species occurrence at both the site and stand levels. Neither species richness nor locally rare species occurrence is related to landscape position within the wetland complex nor to internal wetland chemical gradients. Both species richness and local species rarity are influenced by stand type and structure. Shrubby, wooded, or forested stands contain 70% of the locally rare species occurrences, and swamps and wooded fens are species rich habitats. Stands with high numbers of locally rare species also tend to be stands that have high species richness; however, not all stands with high species richness have high numbers of locally rare bryophytes. Indicators and assessment protocols based on rare species and richness are developed to define Key Habitats for this wetland complex. Criteria for Key Habitats are stands with both high species richness and high numbers of locally rare species-'Category 6' stands, and these are identified as significant features in developing management protocols for bryophyte species and wetland function. Six 'Category 6' stands capture 58% of the locally rare species and 90% of the total wetland species richness. All six Key Habitats are wooded or forested.
10.2307/3243839|The Fontinalis sullivantii species complex consists of four distinct expressions that exhibit weak geographical distributional patterns. The plants of the four expressions are concentrated in certain regions of eastern North America: type-expression (northeastern United States, Louisiana, and eastern Texas), disticha-expression (southeastern United States), filifor mis-expression (north-central United States), and gulf coast-expression (Gulf Coastal Plain). The species complex is characterized by slender to moderately-sized plants having flaccid or rigid stems, generally well-spaced branches, female plants with narrow elongate lanceolate stem leaves and plane leaf apices. Fontinalis disticha Hook. & Wils. var. tenuior Sull., F. filiformis Sull. & Lesq. in Austin, F. langloisii Card., and F. filiformis Sull. & Lesq. var. tenuifolia Card., are placed into the synonymy of F. sullivantii. Fontinalis renauldii Card, and F. lescurii Sull. var. gracilescens Sull. are lectotypified.
3244584|Each Christmas season, the abundance of terrestrial bryophytes in the Abies-dominated forests of the Sierra Chincua, part of the Monarch Butterfly Biosphere Reserve, attracts moss gatherers. Bryophyte mats are harvested as ornamentals, packed, and sold at the central auction of Mexico City. In 1996, we followed a group of about 10 family members in this activity and documented economic and ecological aspects. During the season they removed in total nearly 50 tons of fresh weight of bryophytes from the forest floor that was sold for approximately $3,500 USD, leaving behind a mosaic of gaps of bare soil in the mossy layer. The average gap size was 0.48 m
10.2307/3244358|The sporophyte-gametophyte junction of Ephemerum cohaerens (Hedw.) Hampe is composed of the sporophyte foot, the ensheathing gametophyte vaginula, and an intervening placental space. Transfer cells, characterized by wall ingrowths, occur in both the foot and the vaginula. The tapered foot of the young Ephemerum sporophyte terminates with a single, persistent basal cell where wall ingrowths first develop. Wall ingrowths then further develop on the outer tangential wall and transverse end walls of additional foot cells, while ingrowths develop much later on the inner tangential walls of the inner layer of vaginula cells. The foot implants in the vaginula, but never extends into the gametophore axis. Later in development, the foot expands laterally, becoming more cylindric so that the basal cell no longer predominates. Crushed and degenerating cell remnants are present in the placental space. An electron opaque layer covers the sporophyte except for the foot region. Pleomorphic plastids with variable starch content occur in transfer cells on both sides of the junction. Numerous small vacuoles and lipid deposits are common in the cells of the junction. Ultrastructurally, the junctional region is the first to differentiate compared to other portions of the young sporophyte. Many features, particularly the distribution of wall ingrowths, suggest a directional transport of dissolved nutrients from the vaginula across the placental space into the foot, initially concentrating in the basal cell. Translocated nutrients, temporarily stored in the plastids of the foot, are then available for the development of the remaining portions of the sporophyte. This study presents the pre-meiotic development of the sporophyte-gametophyte junction in Ephemerum. Studies of later developmental stages in Ephemerum and early stages of other bryophytes are needed to further characterize the developmental pathways involved.
3244563|The Fissidentaceae are recognized to include a single genus, Fissidens, which is divided into four subgenera, Aloma, Fissidens, Octodiceras, and Pachyfissidens, on the basis of new taxonomically useful characters i.e., peristome type, costa type, and number of files of exothecial cells. Subgenera Aloma and Octodiceras are not subdivided. Subgenus Fissidens consists of sections Fissidens and Sarawakia, comb. nov. Subgenus Pachyfissidens is divided into three sections: Amblyothallia, comb. nov., Crispidium comb, nov., and Pachyfissidens. The most primitive species of the genus are found in section Amblyothallia, while the most advanced species are in subgenera Aloma and Octodiceras. A key to the subgenera and sections is provided.
10.2307/3243411| An elemental analysis of three sedimentary rock substrates shows that Acarospora sinopica (Wahlenb. in Ach.) Krber has an effect on the weathering of these rock types. The analysis shows that in the area occupied by the lichen silicon (Si-probably in the form of silica) is depleted on the conglomerate, arkose, and dolomite in comparison to the lichen-free area of the rock and the unweathered rock. It is hypothesized that the lichen changes the local microenvironment in such a way that pH is maintained at high enough levels to keep silicon in solution and that the silicon is subsequently carried away from the area occupied by the lichen, permitting diffusion avenues to remain open. This is in contrast to the lichen-free area where silicon accumulates in the arkose and dolomite and is slightly depleted or remains the same in the conglomerate. 
40982996|Bryophyte population sex ratios are predominately female-biased, at least with respect to plants expressing sexual structures. One hypothesis to explain this bias is that males produce sexual structures less often than females, but occur at similar frequencies, a hypothesis termed the "shy male hypothesis." Another nonexclusive possibility is that offspring sex ratios (as sporelings) are biased and populations retain this bias. To test these hypotheses, we examined sex ratios in expressing and nonexpressing shoots for the cosmopolitan moss Bryum argenteum collected in the field, and in shoots grown from spores in the lab. An examination of 154 collections of B.argenteum from native habitats and urban settings in the USA revealed that populations were significantly female-biased (> 80% female). Male rarity was most pronounced in aridland regions of the Mojave Desert and California chaparral; males were significantly more common in altered urban habitats and in high elevation native habitats. When all shoots from clumps representing three mixed-sex, sporophytic populations were grown to sex expression, male nonexpressing shoots were not found to be significantly more abundant than expected based on the field expressing shoot sex ratio, lending little support to the "shy male hypothesis." Offspring sex ratios derived from sporelings were not significantly different from 1: 1, thus not explaining the sharply female-biased population ratios observed in the field. We propose that factors between spore germination and adult maturation, including clonal dynamics, are causing the female-biased population and within-clump sex ratio imbalance of B. argenteum.
10.2307/3241774|Gibberellin activity was detected in vegetative Marchantia polymorpha. Increasing the photoperiod from 12 to 18 hours elicited quantitative differences in the activity of these gibberellins. Such changes were associated with increased thallus elongation and orthogeotropic growth in the 18-hour tissue. Gibberellin antagonists reduced the endogenous gibberellin levels and retarded both thallus elongation and erect growth. The physiological implications of this response and the role of gibberellins in thallus elongation are considered.
25614879|A new species of Homalothecium from California is described and illustrated. This species was first recognized as distinctive during analysis of a DNA investigation into members of Homalothecium and related genera. Homalothecium californicum sp. nov. is distinct in its frondose branching, patent to loosely erect leaves, size intermediate between the somewhat similar H. megaptilum and H. nevadense, and cylindrical, straight, and orthotropous capsules with basally reddened exostome teeth. Subsequent herbarium and field exploration determined this new species to be a rather common and widespread species in central and northern California within a mixed conifer-hardwood transition zone. Several herbarium collections of this new species were found previously determined as Homalothecium megaptilum, H. nevadense, H. fulgescens or H. aeneum.
10.2307/3243754|The six taxa of Tritomaria in North America west of the hundredth meridian are discussed, keyed, and provided with distribution maps. Tritomaria polita is new to Colorado and Washington; T. quinquedentata var. quinquedentata is new to Northwest Territories, Oregon, and Saskatchewan; var. turgida is new to Yukon Territories; T. exsecta and T. exsectiformis are new to Northwest Territories.
3244828|One hundred eighty-eight taxa of lichens are reported from Simeonof Island in the Shumagin Islands of southwestern Alaska. Wide-ranging arctic-alpine and boreal species dominate the lichens; a coastal element is moderately represented, while amphi-Beringian species form a minor element. The lichen component of Empetrum nigrum dwarf shrub heath, the dominant vegetation type, was analyzed to identify the most frequently occurring lichens within this community.
10.2307/3241828|In an investigation of Xanthoria parietina (L.) Th. Fr. allantoin, mannitol, choline sulphate and ergosterol were isolated. Taurine and arabitol were detected with chromatographic methods. UV, IR, MS and NMR were used in the investigation.
3244883|Chaenotheca Th. Fr. is associated with four different genera of photobionts, Dictyochloropsis, Stichococcus, Trebouxia, and Trentepohlia. The species of Chaenotheca consistently harbor only one photobiont genus. A molecular phylogeny based on their ITS1-5.8-ITS2 sequences of 16 species is presented. It contains five well supported clades. In two clades the species were only associated with Stichococcus, and one only with Trebouxia. In the other two clades two or three photobiont genera were present. Thus there is a partial congruence between photobiont association and cladogenesis in the genus. Section Cystophora, characterized by its association with Trebouxia, and sect. Allodium, with Stichococcus, are polyphyletic in the molecular phylogeny. The subgenera Chaenotheca and Cystophora are characterized by ascus shape and secondary chemistry. Two distinctive clades in the molecular phylogeny contain species referred to subg. Chaenotheca and two other distinctive clades contain species referred to subg. Cystophora. However, one of the two clades containing species of subg. Chaenotheca has a clade of species belonging to subg. Cystophora as sister group, and the other one has all the other species as sister group. These relationships, although only have weak support.
10.2307/3243142|Live bryological specimens can be prepared for scanning electron microscopy in under one hour without prior fixation by dehydrating with 2,2-dimethoxypropane followed by critical point drying. Unfixed specimens exhibited little distortion, thus eliminating the requirement for prolonged and/or expensive fixation that may cause collapse of cell walls or other artifacts.
10.2307/3241697|Previous descriptions of Dicranolejeunea axillaris (Nees & Mont.) Schiffn. lack details of the sporophyte anatomy and shoot-sporophyte relationship. A study of serial sections shows that the sporophyte develops entirely within the enlarged calyptra and does not penetrate the gametophyte axis. The foot is highly reduced, consisting of only a few cells, and the seta is articulate and of Schuster's (1966) Brachiolejeunea type. The capsule wall is two-layered and has extensive fenestrate thickenings on the inner tangential wall. The elaters are unispiral and remain attached to the capsule valves after dehiscence. The spores are papillose, lack the "rosette" markings usually found on Lejeuneaceous spores, and undergo precocious germination in the capsule.
43188826|Shoots of Aloina bifrons were regenerated from four herbarium specimens collected from the American southwest, ranging in age from 4 to 12 years old, subcultured to remove field effects, and grown in Petri dishes on native sand for 238 days (70-90 days after gametangial maturation). Rhizautoicy was demonstrated in three of the four genotypes. Plants were protandrous in gametangial development and in time to maturation, although overlap occurred where both sexes were producing mature gametes. Roughly twice as many perigonia were produced than perichaetia. Female shoots were larger than male shoots, yet devoted much less than male shoots to prefertilization reproductive investment. Adjusted to culture area, investment into reproduction on a prefertilization basis was about ten times greater for male function than for female function. Self-fertilization within a single clonal line was accomplished, but sporophytes did not develop beyond the embryonic phenophase. The clonal lines used appear to be self-incompatible, although it is possible that the sporophyte requires a resting phase, colder temperatures, or desiccation in order to complete development.
10.2307/3241564|An interesting new lichen species, Heppia echinulata, is described from the Arava Valley, Israel
10.2307/3240656|Twelve species are reported as additions to the known moss flora of Bruce and Grey Counties, Ontario. Five of these are from the north shore of Bruce Peninsula, an area previously unexplored by bryologists.
3244896| Vezdaea acicularis Coppins is reported growing on soil under hydroelectric transmission lines in Quebec, Canada. It is new to the North American lichen flora. Vezdaea leprosa (P. James) Vzda was found twice in the Ottawa region and is a new lichen for Canada. Steinia geophana (Nyl.) Stein was growing with the V. leprosa and is new for Ontario and Quebec. 
20485753|Little is known about species diversity and genetic structure of populations of lichens and bryophytes in the Sandilands Provincial Forest in Manitoba. This study investigated the current species diversity of lichens and bryophytes in the area. It also examined the population structure and gene flow in the lichen (Cladonia arbuscula) with the highest cover and second most frequent occurrence, and bryophyte (Pleurozium schreberi) with the highest frequency and percent ground cover. Analysis of Molecular Variance (AMOVA) of the presence and absence of group I introns in the fungal small subunit (SSU) nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) and Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms (RFLP) of the algal Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) rDNA suggests that low levels of gene flow were occurring in the fungus while a single algal genotype was maintaining the lichen association. Similarly, Interspersed Simple Sequence Repeat (ISSR) markers of the bryophyte suggested low levels of gene flow. The examination of variation in both lichen symbionts and a bryophyte, dominant within the same habitat, is a novel aspect of this study. Both these widespread species, dominating the understory in mature jack pine forests, exhibited low levels of sexual reproduction.
10.2307/3241449|Thirty-one genera and 93 species and varieties of lichens are reported from the Magdalen Islands, Quebec, Canada. These lichens, most reported for the first time from the Magdalen Islands, occur in a variety of habitats including stabilized dunes and wet bogs on the coasts, exposed sandy soils and drier bogs of the plateau, and slopes of both hills and wooded depressions.
10.2307/3242169| Sphagnum fimbriatum Wils.exJ.Hook. reported as new from Illinois, was found in Lake Argyle State Park, McDonough County. Sphagnum teres (Schimp.) ngstr.exC.Hartm. is reported as a new county record of unusual interest for Illinois. Brachythecium campestre (C.Muell.) B.S.G., Callicladium haldanianum (Grev.) Crum, Mnium ciliare (C.Muell.) Schimp., Pohlia nutans (Hedw.) Lindh. and Scapania undulata (L.) Dumort. are reported as new records for McDonough County. 
10.2307/3243096|Although there are 75 genera and over 300 taxa of Hepaticae in western North America there are a limited number of endemics. Among these endemic taxa are such isolated, monotypic genera as Geothallus, Gyrothyra, and Schofieldia. These probably originated on the Pacific Plate and Juan de Fuca Plate. Some of the endemics are common and widespread throughout the region, while others are highly restricted to small areas mostly west of the Rocky Mountains. Many are dioicous. Taxa having North Pacific Arc distribution patterns mostly occur from the Himalayan uplands to Alaska and extend southward to California along the North American Pacific Coast in hyperoceanic habitats. The patterns of distribution are provided based on published reports and specimens, including personal collections since 1965. Forty two taxa are endemic in western North America and 23 taxa have North Pacific Arc distribution.
10.2307/3242791| Corticolous lichen communities were studied on a small stream of West Virginia that was subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters of the Ohio River. A paucity of lichen cover on tree boles was evident along that portion of the stream bank affected by flooding. Crustose species were most prominent at all study sites. Of the species recorded only two, Arthonia caesia (Flot.) Krb. and Physcia lacinulata Mll. Arg. were found to occur at all stations. 
10.2307/3243100|Arachniopsis coactilis Spruce, Bryopteris diffusa (Sw.) Nees, B. fruticulosa T. Tayl., Herbertus angustivittata (Steph.) Fulf., Odontolejeunea lunulata (Web.) Schiffn. are cited for the first time from various Brazilian States. Zoopsis antillana Steph. is reported for the first time in Brazil.
10.2307/3241330| In Riccia crystallina only a few spores germinated after 3-4 months in 4-5% of the cultures attempted. Cold treatment (8-15C) shortened the dormancy period to 15 days and increased the percentage of germination. In inducing the reproductive phase, temperature again turned out to be the critical factor. Day length did not seem to have much effect so long as a certain minimum period of illumination was provided. Fertilization took place in the normal way, and mature sporophytes were produced in vitro. 
10.2307/3243988|The 178 taxa of mosses known from the Tam Dao Mountains in northeastern Vietnam are enumerated. Mosses newly recorded for Vietnam are Brachythecium plumosum and Calyptothecium auriculatum. The new combination Pinnatella donghamensis (Besch.) Ninh is made. A selected bibliography of Tndochinese floristic moss literature is provided.
10.2307/3241565|Nine species of mosses are reported for the first time from the Macarao River Basin, Caracas, Venezuela. Syrrhopodon incompletus Schwaegr. and Plagiothecium planissimum (Mitt.) Bartr., are new to Venezuela.
10.2307/3241551|Spores and gametophores of Polytrichum commune exhibited radio-resistance and what appeared to be a stimulatory response during the first 10-15 weeks following irradiation at 1,000, 1,600, 2,200, and 2,800 roentgens of chronic gamma radiation, especially those receiving the smallest dose. However, a delayed inhibitory response was noted a few months after the plants were transferred to soil. Sporocytes exposed to the same levels of radiation were markedly radiosensitive and produced atypical protonemal filaments and shoots with stunted gametophores at all four levels of radiation.
41289773|Plagiothecium bicolor Warnst., known only from the holotype specimen collected by E. Ule on Mount Roraima, Brazil, is a synonym of Lepidopilum scabrisetum (Schwgr.) Steere.
10.2307/3242141|Ceratodon heterophyllus Kindb. ex J. M. Mac, is synonymous with and antedated by C. purpureus var. rotundifolius Berggr. Ceratodon purpureus var. obtusifolius Limpr. is an additional synonym.
3244164|Syntrichia minor (Bizot) stat. et comb. nov. (basionym: Tortula papillosissima var. minor Bizot) is proposed at the rank of species and its geographical range is extended to Europe (Iberian Peninsula). The species is described, lectotypified, illustrated, and compared with Syntrichia virescens (De Not.) Ochyra, from which it can be distinguished by the type of papillosity.
10.2307/3243224|Lichen community parameters (species composition, species richness, total cover index, and Index of Atmospheric Purity) were correlated with 3-year mean annual SO
10.2307/3242515|Nitrogen fixing lichens in a 2.7 ha 80 to 100 year oak-hickory forest of the Piedmont of North Carolina were examined with regard to habitat and biomass. Approximately half the lichen biomass was contributed by Leptogium cyanescens; other species, in order of amount of biomass, were Lobaria quercizans, Collema subfurvum, Leptogium corticola, Peltigera canina, Sticta weigelii, Collema conglomeratum, Pannaria leucosticta and Leptogium chloromelum. The total lichen biomass on the 2.7 ha tract was 58.4 g. Most lichens were found on trees on a NE-facing slope. Most of the lichens were on Quercus rubra and Quercus velutina, and except for Lobaria quercizans, no lichen species appeared sensitive to the compass direction of the tree.
3244610|Sphagnum tundrae (sect. Squarrosa) is reported new to arctic North America and eastern Russia. This species was recently described from Svalbard, arctic Norway, and has until now not been reported from other areas. It is argued, that it reached Svalbard in early/middle Holocene by long distance chance dispersal through icerafting diaspores following main Arctic Ocean currents from arctic Eurasian sources. Supposedly closely related to S. teres, the distinctness of the gene pools of those two species is evaluated through isozyme analysis of a mixed population, as well as small samples from three other S. tundrae sites and two sites with S. teres populations from Svalbard. Fifteen putative enzyme loci were screened. Very little intraspecific genetic diversity was detected. Sphagnum tundrae was monomorphic throughout the four populations studied, whereas S. teres had three haplotypes. The mean genetic identity (Nei 1978) among populations of S. tundrae and S. teres in this sample from Svalbard was calculated as 0.525, which is in concordance with values obtained among other Sphagnum species. Sphagnum mirum is described as a new species from subarctic Alaska, differing in essential morphological characteristics from the related S. teres and S. tundrae. Morphological variation in mixed stands of S. mirum and S. teres from the type locality clearly demonstrates its specific distinctness in qualitative as well as quantitative characteristics.
10.2307/3242213| Two North American species are described: Encalypta vittiana from Alaska, Yukon Territory and western Northwest Territories and E. flowersiana from Guatemala and Haiti. Each is closely related to a taxon belonging to the E. rhaptocarpa-E. vulgaris complex: E. vittiana to E. rhaptocarpa Schwaegr., from which it is distinguished by precisely fringed calyptrae, and E. flowersiana to E. spathulata C.Mll., from which it is distinguished by muticous leaves and spores with vermiform protuberances on the distal surface. On the basis of morphological discontinuity and, in the case of E. flowersiana, geographical isolation, both E. vittiana and E. flowersiana are given recognition as species. The markedly restricted distribution of E. vittiana is similar to that of both endemic and circumarctic-alpine species of mosses and may be a result of Pleistocene glaciation. It is hypothesized that E. flowersiana may have evolved in geographic isolation from E. spathulata. The narrow geographical range of E. flowersiana may be a function of altitudinal restrictions. 
10.2307/3243118|Areas of soil surface covered by mosses in hardwood and northern coniferous forest ecosystems of Camels Hump Mountain, Vermont, decreased between 1965 and 1979. To evaluate the possibility that this decline might be due to a combination of acidic deposition and metal accumulations in the acidic soil solution, one of the dominant moss species, Polytrichum ohioensis Ren. et Card., was grown in vitro at different pH values in the presence of aluminum, copper, lead and zinc ions. Suppression of the growth of gametophyte tissues was a function of metal ion concentration and the pH of the nutrient medium. The simulation experiments indicated that depauperization of mosses in these mountainous ecosystems could be due to metal ions in acidic soil solutions.
10.2307/3244386|Pterygoneurum lamellatum (Lindb.) Jur. is reported new to the Greenland bryoflora based on two finds from west central Greenland. The specimens were found 350 km apart, both on frost boils of clay on raised marine sediments of Holocene age. These findings support the thesis that openland has existed in West Greenland during one or more glaciations.
10.2307/3244384|Bryophytes and lichens associated with soil crusts were sampled over 500,000 km
20110832|Orthostichella Mll. Hal. is a genus of nine species (O. capillicaulis, O. hexasticha, O. longinervis, O. muelleri, O. pachygastrella, O. pandurifolia, O. rigida, O. versicolor and O. welwitschii) found only in tropical and subtropical regions of the New World and Africa. One species (O. hexasticha) is restricted to the Caribbean, one (O. pachygastrella) is found only in the continental regions of the New World, two (O. capillicaulis and O. pandurifolia) are restricted to continental Africa, and one (O. longinervis) is found only in Madagascar and the Mascarene Islands. The other species occur in both Africa and the New World. Orthostichella is predominantly epiphytic and often grows in dense, pendent masses. It has a complex morphology with creeping primary stems or stolons, and erect or pendent, stipitate or evenly foliose secondary stems that are irregularly branched. It lacks a stem central strand and its axillary hairs are usually reddish throughout. Its branches often end in filiform attenuations or stolons. The stolons, stems and branches can abruptly transform from one structure to another, or they can seamlessly intergrade one into another. The leaves are often spirally ranked, they have elongate, smooth, firm-walled leaf cells and weakly developed alar cells. The costae in Orthostichella are wildly variable. In some species most leaves are ecostate, however, some leaves can be found with double or single costae. In other species most leaves have a single or double costa, but ecostate leaves can also be found. In one species (O. longinervis) the leaves always have long, single, subpercurrent costae. Orthostichella has elongate-flexuose, roughened setae, ovoid to short-cylindrical capsules, long-rostrate opercula and mostly hairy, cucullate calyptrae. The Orthostichella peristome is diplolepideous and reduced. Exostomes and endostomes are yellowish white and nearly the same length. The more or less linear exostome teeth are lightly, horizontally striate on the dorsal (outer) surface at base. The endostome has a low basal membrane with filamentous, narrowly perforate segments and cilia are usually absent. Orthostichella appears best placed in the Neckeraceae by virtue of its neckeroid peristome, creeping stolons, stipitate stems with differentiated stipe leaves, foliose pseudoparaphyllia and leaves with weakly developed alar cells. Within the Neckeraceae Orthostichella seems best placed near Porotrichum, but the genus appears isolated by virtue of its non-complanate leaves that are often arranged in spiral rows. Additional new combinations include: Orthostichidium quadrangulare (Schwgr.) n. comb., Orthostichidium pentastichum (Brid.) n. comb. and Hildebrantiella phleoides (Desv. ex Brid.) n. comb.
3244130|We document the effect of Mexico City on the epiphytic lichens of Abies religiosa by comparing the communities occurring at Desierto de los Leones, a protected area near to the city, with those at El Chico National Park, a location 100 km upwind (or crosswind) from the city. The first community had 47% fewer species, 62% less lichen cover, and a species abundance pattern that revealed a highly disturbed community. The differences between these communities were greater at the trunk base than at the height of two m, and much stronger when evaluated from a species to species perspective. Among a variety of factors, site air quality may account for many of the observed differences.
10.2307/3241870|The moss Trichostomum crispulum var. cucullatum is reported as new to the United States from the Edwards Plateau of Texas. It may be distinguished from other North American taxa of Trichostomum and Weissia by its broad, rounded and cucullate leaf tips.
3244720|We studied bryophyte species composition on five tree species (Erica scoparia, Laurus azorica, Myrica faya, Ilex canariensis, and I. Perado) of the laurel forest on Tenerife in order to determine the dominant factors influencing bryophyte community structure. Most of the 37 bryophyte species we found (24 liverworts and 11 mosses) are facultative epiphytes; many were found on several tree species, while five occurred on all tree species. DCA and CCA indicated that bryophyte species composition is significantly related to tree species identity. For each tree species, bark characteristics, plot exposure (windward and leeward to the prevailing trade winds), height (50 or 130 cm), tree size, and uprightness have differing relationships to bryophyte species composition. Bryophyte growth forms appeared to relate to the moisture conditions of the tree bark.
10.2307/3243329| The moss Hyophila involuta (Hook.) Jaeg. was discovered on the calcareous walls of most of the locks in the Rideau Canal system in southeastern Ontario. The species, known in Canada only from Ontario, apparently has been spread northwards in the water and on the boats travelling through the locks from more southern localities in the United States to its northernmost Ontario locality of 4525'N latitude. 
10.2307/3243245|Gemmalings of the thallose liverwort Marchantia polymorpha L. were cultivated in liquid nutrient medium in the presence of varying concentrations and chemical forms of nickel. Initial experiments using NiSO
20485818|Letharia gracilis Kroken is validated as a new species of lichenized fungi from California and southern Oregon. Previously lumped under L. columbiana, but recognized as a distinct lineage by molecular work of Kroken and Taylor, L. gracilis is distinguished from L. columbiana by its sparse branching, slender, relatively smooth, drooping branches and distinct ITS DNA sequences.
10.2307/3244363|A new technique is reported for examining anatomical features of the different layers of the capsule wall in hepatics. This technique involves treating the capsule with a pectinase preparation to separate the layers, followed by clearing and staining to enhance detail of the cell wall architecture. The potential taxonomic value of capsule wall characters for some New Zealand Frullania species is discussed as a case study. Characters of particular significance include the morphology of cell wall thickenings in both the internal and epidermal layers. The possible chemical components present in the cell wall thickenings of the capsule wall layers are also discussed.
20110878|The new lichen species Lecanora crassithallina, characterized by a thick, areolate thallus and abundant macropycnidia with short, bacilliform macroconidia, is described from northern Mexico. The new species belongs to the Lecanora saligna group and is most related to L. albellula, L. coniferarum and L. saligna.
20061095|Using data from randomly-selected surveys, historic locations, and 'purposive' surveys of likely habitats, fifteen rare epiphytic lichens (Bryoria pseudocapillaris, B. spiralifera, B. subcana, Erioderma sorediatum, Heterodermia leucomela, Hypotrachyna revoluta, Leioderma sorediatum, Leptogium brebissonii, Niebla cephalota, Pannaria rubiginosa, Pseudocyphellaria perpetua, Pyrrhospora quernea, Ramalina pollinaria, Teloschistes flavicans, and Usnea hesperina) were assessed for frequency and distribution on publicly owned lands along the immediate Pacific coast from the Canadian border south to San Francisco and for association with late seral forests and federally protected lands. A total of 178 sites of 0.04 ha each were surveyed in 2000 and 2001; 129 were randomly selected. The major distribution patterns were CA and OR coastlines  Puget Sound, OR and WA coastlines, and OR and WA Coast and western Cascades Ranges, following major regional climatic gradients. Frequency varied considerably by state, all lichens except P. quernea were rare in at least one state (no detections among randomly selected survey sites). Odds ratio tests provided suggestive evidence that most populations of U. hesperina are in forests &gt 80 years old, and good evidence that forest age is not an important predictor of occurrence for R. pollinaria and H. leucomela. Ten of the target species were associated with  two federally protected land allocations, and none were primarily found on protected allocations. Therefore actions on unprotected state and federal lands in the 21st century will influence persistence. Target populations for conservation are discussed.
10.2307/3244225|The taxonomy, distribution, and ecology of nineteen species in five calicioid genera from the United States and Canada are described, and keys are presented to the North American species of Chaenotheca, Chaenothecopsis, Phaeocalicium, Sclerophora, and Stenocybe. Chaenothecopsis edbergii Selva & Tibell, C. exilis Tibell, Phaeocalicium matthewsianum Selva & Tibell, and Stenocybe flexuosa Selva & Tibell are described as new. The new combination Phaeocalicium minutissimum (Merrill) Selva is proposed, with the selection of a neotype. Chaenotheca hygrophila, C. servitii, C. sphaerocephala, Chaenothecopsis asperopoda, C. haematopus, C. irregularis, C. ochroleuca, C. tasmanica, Phaeocalicium betulinum, and P. flabelliforme are reported as new to the North American mycota.
10.2307/3243639| Rinodina stictica Sheard & Tnsberg is described as new from Washington State, U.S.A., where it is epiphytic on deciduous trees in coastal lowlands. The species is soraliate and possesses features unusual for Rinodina such as stictic acid, and callispora-like locules in developing, immature spores, which belong to the pachysporaria-type at maturity. 
40732285|Morphological features of three species of Brotherella Loeske ex M. Fleisch, based on their type specimens are found to be inconsistent with their current taxonomic placements. Brotherella dixonii Herzog and Brotherella pallida (Renauld & Cardot) M. Fleisch, are transferred to Ectropothecium and Wijkia as E. dixonii (Herzog) Y. Jia & S. He comb. nov. and W. pallida (Renauld & Cardot) Y. Jia & S. He comb, nov., respectively. Brotherella harveyana (Mitt.) Dixon is synonymized with Pylaisiadelpha tenuirostris (Bruch & Schimp.) W. R. Buck.
20485756|"Critical load" and "critical level" (the deposition or concentration, respectively, of atmospheric pollutants above which negative ecosystem effects occur) concepts are reviewed for the North American lichenological community with the objective of stimulating interest and participation in this emerging field of research. We focus on how regional, lichen-based critical loads for nitrogen-, sulfur- and metal-containing pollutants could be developed for various terrestrial ecosystems in the U.S. utilizing existing data. Specifically we provide examples of how lichen community and element concentration responses to air pollution can be linked with measured or modeled estimates of depositional air pollutants. Preliminary critical loads of 0.26-0.33 kg ha yr for deposition of inorganic N in fine particulates and critical levels of 0.044-0.055 mg L for wet deposition of ammonium ions are suggested for coniferous forests of western Oregon and Washington. These correspond to initial declines in presence and abundance of sensitive species and a % N concentration of 0.55-0.61 in Platismatia glauca. Indicator species distribution and abundance as well as physiological, morphological, growth or reproduction responses can also be used to set critical loads. Further research needs are identified.
10.2307/3240657| Thirty-one species, two varieties, and one form are described from Tugtilik, Greenland, and the status of Alectoria nigricans f. subchalybeiformis Rs. is discussed. 
10.2307/3241410|The Geocalycacae include, among other generic complexes, a complex of genera with well-developed but laterally compressed perianths; the third (ventral) face is strongly reduced, so that the perianth appears bilabiate. Heretofore known in this complex are Leptoscyphus Mitt. and Pedinophyllopsis Schust. & Inoue. An additional genus, Evansianthus, with E. georgiensis (Gott.) Schust. & Engel is described which is distinct from all other groups of Geocalycaceae known in developing dorsal, Andrewsianthus-type branching.
10.2307/3240798|The essentials of the procedures described are the use of serum bottle stoppers on culture vessels, hypodermic syringes for through-the-stopper inoculations, acid-treated sand as a substratum, and a quantitative dilution method for the addition of chemical substances. Some of the advantages of each aspect of the procedures are pointed out. The adaptability of some of the methods for the culture of other organisms is suggested.
10.2307/3241310|Based on the morphology of the sporophyte and the coelocaule observed in recent collections of Pleurocladopsis, relationship to the Schistochilaceae is shown, rather than to the Herbertaceae as was formerly thought.
10.2307/3241440|Forty-one taxa of pleurocarpous mosses are now known from Afghanistan, and are listed with their world and Afghanistan distribution; a key to the taxa is given. Brachythecium collinum, Calliergon turgescens, Drepanocladus aduncus, and Hypnum revolutum are reported for the first time from Afghanistan. Pleurocarpous mosses do not occur in Afghanistan in regions receiving less than 400 mm/yr. precipitation. The bryogeographic affinities of the pleurocarpous mosses of Afghanistan are discussed. Almost 50% of the species represent the northern hemisphere element of the moss flora.
3244940|Six species of saxicolous Buellia s.l. containing xanthones are reported from the Greater Sonoran Desert Region: Buellia concinna, B. halonia, B. mamillana, B. prospersa, B. subaethalea, and B. trachyspora. All species have a pale yellow to greenish yellow thallus characterized by the presence of xanthones. Nevertheless, they all show distinct characters and may consequently only be distantly related. Buellia concinna, a taxon previously reported only from Europe, is the valid name for the North American B. semitensis. Buellia subaethalea, first described by Bouly de Lesdain, but subsequently largely ignored, is reported for the first time from the region. Buellia trachyspora, a subtropical species barely reaching the Sonoran Region, is distinguished from B. mamillana.
10.2307/3243651| Forty-five species of lichens are reported as new to Utah. Eleven misidentifications and one misspelling from a previous report are corrected. Significant range extensions include Bacidia carneoalbida (Mll. Arg.) Coppins, Catapyrenium tuckermanii (Rav. ex Mont.) Thomson, Cladonia umbricola Tnsb. & Ahti, and Psoroma tenue Henssen var. borealis Henssen. 
10.2307/3241203|The distribution and succession of corticolous lichens on black spruce in an unburned area near Cochrane, Ontario, were investigated. The frequencies of the epiphytes in point samples are statistically dependent on the following microclimatic indices: aspect, height, and distance to the nearest tree in the sampled quadrant. Differences in the lichen flora between whole trees of different absolute age are attributable to their different heights, but there were distinct differences in the flora of bark surfaces of different ages, indicating an apparent succession. Regressions of the frequencies of Alectoria nadvornikiana and Parmelia physodes on the microclimatic indices were performed separately for surfaces in a number of age classes. The resulting regression coefficients were plotted against time, revealing several sharp changes in the rate of corticolous succession. It was found that these changes could be explained by tree morphology, i.e. changes from crown to bole to base, and by presumed microclimatic gradients correlated with tree morphology. Because the observed changes in epiphytic vegetation are caused by growth of the host tree and associated with environmental variation, and not by the activities of the plants themselves, it was concluded that corticolous succession is not a true succession as defined by Clements.
10.2307/3242554|The exact sequence of publication of the names of Sullivant's new Musci and Hepaticae between the years 1845 and 1875 has been determined, chiefly by the use of manuscript letters from Sullivant to Asa Gray. At present many of the names are cited to different sources as a consequence of Sullivant's publication of the same new taxa in several works, such as an exsiccata and its text, a journal or other collective volume and its preprint or reprint, as well as of questionable dates on title pages.
10.2307/3242959|Re-examination of some Formosan moss collections deposited at the Taiwan Museum (TAIM) was made. Ctenidium molluscum (Hedw.) Mitt., Fleischerobryum macrophyllum Broth. and Rhynchostegium rubro-carinatum Sak. were recognized as new additions to the flora of Taiwan.
10.2307/3242048|Tenuiorin, methyl gyrophorate (pseudocyphellarin) and methyl evernate were isolated from Lobaria linita. In addition, evidence (two-directional thin layer chromatography) was obtained for the presence of methyl lecanorate and methyl orsellinate, as well as of their respective parent compounds 4-0-methylgyrophoric acid, gyrophoric acid, evernic acid, lecanoric acid and orsellinic acid in the same lichen.
3244336| Many studies have shown that certain species of bryophytes and lichens require old-growth forests for their survival. The objective of this study is to evaluate the composition and diversity of epiphytic lichen and bryophyte communities on trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides), as a function of the time elapsed since stand initiation. The study was carried out in the forests surrounding Lake Duparquet, in the southwestern part of Qubec's boreal forest. Stands representing different post-fire successional stages, corresponding to 278, 125, 79, and 51 yr since the last fire were selected. For each stand age, 10 trees from four different sites were sampled. A total of 75 species of non-vascular plants were found, including 34 species of mosses, seven species of liverworts, and 34 species of lichens. More species were observed in the 278-yr old stand, which also contained a greater number of exclusive species. In a correspondence analysis performed on species presence/absence data, axes one and two were correlated with distance from the closest unburnt area and time since fire. For each tree, species richness, diversity, and cover indices were calculated and compared for the different stand ages. These indices tended to be higher in the 79-yr old stand and lower in the 51-yr old stand. By using mixed log-linear models, we found that the frequency of occurrence of some species was linked to the time since fire, and others species to tree age. Old-growth forests are important to bryophytes and lichens since they have a greater number of species and some species are found exclusively or more frequently in old-growth forests. Furthermore, each stand age has some species associated with it. Therefore, forest management practices should be adopted to maintain all successional stages present in the natural forest landscape in order to preserve the diversity of non-vascular plants. 
10.2307/3241183|The chromosome numbers of four species of mosses from eastern India are reported, two of them for the first time: Trematodon conformis (n = 14) and Philonotis lutea (n = 6). The numbers of Isopterygium textori (n = 12) and Pogonatum contortum (n = 7) are also given.
10.2307/3242274| Besides the amides, glutamine and asparagine, the amino acids glutamic acid, aspartic acid, alanine, -aminobutyric acid, arginine and taurine predominate in the lichen species Pseudevernia furfuracea (L.) Zopf, Platismatia glauca (L.) Culb. et Culb. and Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. Among these amino acids, glutamic acid plays the most important role. Glutamine primarily seems to function as a nitrogen storage compound, as its concentration exceeds the one of asparagine by far. The amounts of the bound di- and polyamines putrescine, cadaverine, agmatine and spermidine are of the same order as those of the amino acids, while free di- and polyamines could not be detected in the present case. The glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) of the lichen Pseudevernia furfuracea shows a strict dependence on the coenzyme NADP(H). The ratio of the reductive amination:oxydative deamination is 7.5:1. The enzymes glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) and glutamic pyruvate transaminase (GPT) are of less importance in the lichen species investigated here, the GPT showing a somewhat higher activity than the GOT. 
10.2307/3241646|The author citation for Calymperes venezuelanum and the taxonomic status of three species of Fissidens are discussed.
10.2307/3241803|Ten isoenzymes of malate dehydrogenase were present in whole-cell extracts of the protonemal stage of the moss Funaria hygrometrica Hedw. They were isolated via disc gel electrophoresis and column chromatography. These isoenzymes could be separated only partially via fractionation of the cells into particulate and supernatant fractions. Three isoenzymes of malate dehydrogenase were found to utilize NADP as the cofactor.
20110920|We sought to assess impacts of fire and grazing by reindeer and caribou on lichen communities in northwestern Alaska. Macrolichen abundance was estimated from 45, 0.38-ha plots. Eighteen of those plots, scattered throughout the southern Seward Peninsula, represented two levels of grazing, heavy and light. We found lightly grazed areas had taller lichens and greater total lichen cover than heavily grazed sites. Minor yet statistically significant changes in community structure were also observed between heavily and lightly grazed sites. However, lichen species richness did not differ by grazing status. Overall, average lichen height appears to be the best indication of grazing intensity on the Seward Peninsula. Apart from the 18 grazing plots, 8 additional plots were established in previously burned sites to represent reference conditions with a known time since disturbance date. These plots provided a framework of vegetation recovery from severe, recent disturbance towards pre-disturbance conditions. Patterns in lichen, bryophyte and vascular plant characteristics from these fire plots in combination with our findings from the grazing plots were then used to interpret the disturbance history of new plots. These new plots comprise the remaining 19 plots (of the total 45) that were sampled within the Bering Land Bridge National Preserve (BELA). We believe the location of BELA, regardless of disturbance history, is more favorable to vascular plants and Sphagnum, and lichens grow taller in response, compared to areas on the Seward Peninsula further south. In addition, lower cover in the Preserve may be attributed to site or climatic differences rather than grazing.
41289812|Eight Syntrichia species are reported for the first time from several South American countries with distribution and taxonomie notes. Syntrichia andicola, S. breviseta, S. napoana, S. percarnosa and S. robusta are reported for the first time from Chile, Bolivia, Peru, Venezuela and Ecuador, respectively. Syntrichia lacerifolia is reported for the first time from Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador. Syntrichia amphidiacea and S. scabrinervis are added to the bryophyte flora of Argentina. Three new synonyms are proposed: Syntrichia gromschii, S. campestris and S. scabrella for S. serrulata, S. princeps and S. flagellaris, respectively. A new combination is proposed: S. berthoana, to accommodate one species previously assigned to Tortula. Lectotypes for Tortula campestris and T. scabrella currently included in Syntrichia are designated here. Syntrichia scabrinervis is excluded from the moss flora of Bolivia.
10.2307/3242239|Respiration rates of Usnea hirta (L.) Wigg. and Parmelia chlorochroa Tuck. exposed in the field to SO
3244938|This study examines water-formed saxicolous lichen trimlines on bedrock outcrops in the Peace-Athabasca Delta, northern Alberta, Canada. We determined the lichen species growing on rock above and below lichen trimlines; described the trimlines with regard to height above water, location, elevation above sea level, and physical factors; and dated the trimlines through lichenometry. Trimlines were found at open, semi-restricted, and perched basins at a mean elevation of 210.85 m asl; 14 of 16 trimline elevations were between 210.26 and 210.92. Mean trimline height above current water was 155 cm (range 40 to 230 cm). The all-lichen species diameter growth rate mean was 0.416 mm yr
10.2307/3244533|World-wide, three species of Calymperes and two of Syrrhopodon (Musci, Calymperaceae) share the foliar feature of a pseudopetiole. This structure, which is unique among mosses, is an interval of naked costa connecting the summit of the leaf base (with its water-retaining cancellinae) to the proximal end of the expanded photosynthetic upper lamina. The primary function of the pseudopetiole appears to be that it elevates and exposes the photosynthetic portion of the leaf above the moss turf. In two of these mosses the pseudopetioles form a cage-like system between the leaf bases and the expanded portions of the laminae which functions to retain water for brief periods.
10.2307/3241025|Of the 113 species and varieties of bryophytes reported here from northwestern Manitoba, 26 are new to the flora of the province.
10.2307/3241671|The marsupium of Calypogeia trichomanis (L.) Corda originates as an archegonial branch, ventrally, from a prostrate vegetative stem. It early curves laterally, due to meristematic activity on one side of the branch. Further refinement and activity of this meristem cause a cuplike sheath (the marsupium) to rise about the archegonial receptacle. The elongating marsupium burrows into the substrate, carrying the enclosed archegonia and subsequent sporophyte with it. Initiation of the eccentric growth of the branch and establishment of the marsupial form occur before fertilization. The architecture of the meristematic tissue and of the marsupial form is unlike that of any other structure in the plant body, and is indicative of the diverse potentialities of the plant's genotype.
10.2307/3241556|The arctic American species, Fissidens arcticus Bryhn, is redescribed, and the sporophyte is described and illustrated for the first time. This species is characterized by weakly bordered leaves, but with a distinct inframarginal border along the vaginant lamina. Therefore, F. arcticus is transferred from section Semilimbidium to section Bryoidium. A lectotype from Ellesmere Island is chosen, and every specimen known to us is cited and mapped.
10.2307/3243005|Thirty-five species of mosses are newly reported for Montana, North Dakota, the Black Hills of South Dakota and Wyoming, Nebraska, and Kansas. Further records representing significant range extensions are also included.
10.2307/3244372|A floristic study of the epiphytic bryophytes was carried out in six forest types of the lowland rainforest in the state of Rio de Janeiro, southeastern Brazil. Collecting included the forest canopy. Seventy-five species of bryophytes were found (39 mosses and 36 hepatics). Comparisons of species richness, life forms, and substrate among the six types revealed that 1) highest species richness was found in the Mature Secondary Hillside Rainforest (43 species), the lowest diversity in the Highly Degraded Hillside Rainforest (6 species) and Hillside Secondary Rainforest (5 species); 2) the most important families were Lejeuneaceae (23 species, 30%) and Sematophyllaceae (7 species, 10%); 3) 45% of the bryophyte species are exclusive to the canopy; 4) six life forms were found, the most common being the mat (48%); 5) impact of forest destruction-shade epiphytes are more affected than sun epiphytes; after 20-45 years of succession many bryophyte species had not yet returned and after 80 years of succession the bryoflora is similar to that of primary forest; and 6) three species are new records to Brazil-Lejeunea minutiloba, Lophocolea granatensis, and Metalejeunea cucullata.
41289793|In bryophytes, rates of net photosynthesis vary among populations. How this variation is shaped by shoot biochemical or structural traits has not been established, yet would be essential to develop useful models of forest floor function in the boreal zone. The objectives of this study were to characterize functional trait relationships in the widespread feathermoss Pleurozium schreberi, to develop an empirical model to predict net photosynthesis in this species, and to compare the performance of a surface model that incorporates the shoot system's average properties with a canopy model that accounts for the vertical distribution of light and shoot area. Maximal rates of net photosynthesis (A max ) and dark respiration (R d ) were measured (n=25) using gas exchange at optimal water contents. Shoot system concentrations of chlorophyll (a+b), carotenoids and nitrogen were measured in addition to the water content, surface roughness (L r ), canopy height, and the vertical distribution of shoot area and light within the canopy. The light extinction coefficient and transmission parameters were estimated from the latter. A max ranged from 2.20 to 7.78 mol COms with a mean value of 4.97. A linear multiple regression model using shoot area index (SAI) and chlorophyll concentration explained 55% of variation in A max , and no other factors associated significantly with the residuals. The Monsi-Saeki canopy model was also fit to the data, which explained only 33% of variation in A max . Residuals were related to L r , and the full model improved to explain 53% of the variation. Given senescence and acclimation of shoots within the canopy, a more refined model will be necessary to add predictive power to the canopy model. Unlike vascular plants, the canopy models are not likely to be improved by considering the allocation of nitrogen because it does not associate with photosynthetic characteristics as it does in vascular plant leaves.
10.2307/3244072|Maintaining numbers of aseptic cultures of bryophytes by serial transfer not only consumes supplies and labor but can result in loss of vigor or the appearance of other abnormalities in long-term cultures. Cryopreservation of cultures solves the problems associated with long-term culture, and is of particular importance for cultures or mutant cell lines incapable of making spores or where spores are short-lived. Dramatic simplification of a published protocol for moss cryopreservation is accomplished by preconditioning cultures for 3-4 days in medium supplemented with 10
10.2307/3241356|A monthly investigation for one year revealed a distinct annual periodicity both of spore discharge and of percentage of spore germination with peaks generally occurring during the period October to January inclusive. Massive sporulation is not invariably associated with high percentage germination values.
10.2307/3243857|Eight taxa of Cladonia section Perviae, including C. singularis Hammer sp. nov., are recognized for western North America. Podetial ontogeny and the different character states of the branches, openings, cortex, and squamules are the result of relative rates of growth of the different tissues in the podetium, and are apparently species-specific.
10.2307/3244187|Samples of the epiphytic lichen Evernia prunastri collected in an unpolluted area were transplanted to the urban environment of Teramo (central Italy). The influence of the transplant process on trace element content was found to be negligible and after only two months, concentrations of all elements (Cd, Cr, Cu, Pb, and Zn) were significantly higher than in control samples. It is suggested that motor traffic was the main source of atmospheric Cr, Cu, and Pb, while for Cd and Zn additional sources from phosphate fertilizers and pesticides used in the surrounding farmlands are hypothesized. The possible uptake and accumulation processes of these metals in relation to time of exposure are discussed.
20061094|Bryum capillare, a moss of worldwide distribution, is ubiquitous to cities where it is commonly found growing within the cracks of sidewalks. Because of its occurrence in the harsh and depauperate urban environment, it was hypothesized that this moss is resistant to the deleterious effects of pollutants, such as acid rain. We tested this by measuring the growth response of an axenic culture line of B. capillare to simulated pH-adjusted rain. Field and experimental data both suggest that B. capillare is not especially resistant to acid rain. In the first experiment B. capillare protonematal cultures were subjected to simulated rain at pH levels between 3 and 8. Cultures at pH 4.0 simulated rain resulted in an approximate 50% reduction in colony area from that obtained in the pH 8.0 treatment. Therefore, we would expect the acid rain in Washington, DC to be unfavorable to the growth of B. capillare. Yet, the moss is both common and abundant in the city. In a second experiment the optimal pH for the in vitro culture of B. capillare ranged between 6 and 8. This helped explain its abundance in the city since soil pH samples averaged 7.5. We attributed the near neutral pH of soil under B. capillare colonies to its parent substratum: cement. In a third experiment, the adverse effects of simulated acid rain on B. capillare, were reversed by culturing the moss on cement-amended medium (pH 7.6). Based on these experiments and on the pH values of soil and rain samples, we concluded that B. capillare is protected from adverse effects of acid rain by the apparent buffering and neutralizing capacity of its preferred substrate, the cement of city sidewalks.
10.2307/3241264|Nineteen species of hepatics are reported for the first time from Brown County, Wisconsin. A random sample of 579 trees belonging to five genera gives frequency data by substrate for the corticolous species encountered.
3244332| The Panariaceae sensu lato of North America are shown to contain 51 species in ten genera: Degelia (1), Erioderma (3), Fuscopannaria (25), Leioderma (1), Moelleropsis (1), Pannaria (8), Parmeliella (5), Protopannaria (1), Psoroma (3), and Santessoniella (3). The following new taxa are described: Fuscopannaria alaskana, F. aurita, F. coralloidea, F. crustacea, F. hookerioides, F. leprosa, F. pacifica, F. ramulina, F. thiersii, Pannaria lurida ssp. quercicola, P. subfusca, and Parmeliella appalachensis. The following new combinations proved necessary: Fuscopannaria californica (Tuck.), F. cheiroloba (Mll. Arg.), F. incisa (Mll. Arg.), Pannaria lurida ssp. russellii (Tuck.), Parmeliella stylophora (Vain.), Protopannaria (Gyeln.), Protopannaria pezizoides (G. H. Weber), and Santessoniella crossophylla (Nyl.). All names are typified and keys are provided to all taxa. The genus Fuscopannaria has an evolutionary center on the Pacific coast where it appears to have evolved taxa for most available niches from coastal rocks (F. maritima) to high mountain peaks (F. hookerioides), and from cool damp habitats (F. alaskana) to warm, dry ones (F. californica). Several species in the eastern parts, like F. leucosticta and F. sorediata, reappear in Japan and are additions to the Tertiary relic element of the North American flora. The importance of recognizing ecogeographic elements is pointed out. 
10.2307/3242166|The presence of calyptrae was found necessary for young sporophytes of Funaria to develop the ability to form capsules. If the calyptrae were left in place, the sporophytes formed capsules. If the calyptrae were removed the frequency of capsule formation was a function of the length of the sporophytes at the beginning of the experiment. When sporophytes were shorter than 10 mm, capsule formation was postponed indefinitely if calyptrae were absent, and there was a strong tendency for intercalary growth to become indeterminate. Beyond a certain stage, determined by environmental and endogenous factors, 100% of naked sporophytes formed capsules. Setae thickened in the typical way when the sporophytes elongated without calyptrae. The absence of the calyptra had only minor effects on the timing and quality of capsule expansion, once the sporophyte was beyond its early development. Late in elongation, the absence of the calyptra seemed to promote earlier and more vigorous capsule expansion. But if the calyptra was removed just before the capsule expanded, the speed and vigor of expansion was not altered. The effect of the presence of the calyptra was not altered when the calyptra was chemically extracted. When young sporophytes were refitted with extracted calyptrae after the original calyptrae were removed, the sporophytes grew normally and formed normal capsules. This result supports the conclusion that the role of the calyptra is implemented via the physical restraint that the calyptra exerts on the growth of the sporophyte.
20110953|The North American, Central American and West Indian species of the lichen genus Haematomma are revised, with special emphasis given to the chemistry and distribution of the taxa. Nineteen species and an additional variety are accepted for the region, including one new species from the West Indies: Haematomma caperaticum. All these taxa are given full descriptions, and a key to their identification is provided. The varieties of H. ochroleucum are regarded as unnamed chemotypes. The presence of fatty acids, including caperatic, rangiformic and bourgeanic acids, are reported for the first time for the genus and are taxonomically important. In addition, two new usnic/placodiolic-type dibenzofuran derivatives (Hgy-1 and Hgy-2) characterize a chemotype of H. guyanense, a common sorediate species known mainly from Florida. This species and H. leprarioides are reported as new to North America. Notes on the chemistry and, in a few cases, the morphology, of 11 non-American species are also provided. Rosellinula kalbii was found growing as a parasite on H. guyanense, the first report on this host.
10.2307/3241887| Aloina, Aloinella and Crossidium are characterized on a worldwide basis. Keys, descriptions and illustrations are provided. Aloina rigida var. obliquifolia (C. Mll.) Delgadillo and Crossidium crassinerve var. laevipilum (Thr. & Trab.) Delgadillo are new combinations; Aloina cornifolia Delgadillo is new to science. Aloina and Crossidium are thought to have been derived from a Tortula-Desmatodon-like ancestor. Aloinella possibly evolved from an Aloina hamulus type in the highlands of Mexico. The morphology of the genera may reflect their adaptation to dry conditions. The scope of the geographical ranges of Aloina, Aloinella and Crossidium is not correlated with spore size or terminal velocity. The range apparently depends on ecological tolerance, other factors of their environment and age of the species. Aloina and Crossidium have disjunct distributions and are mainly Mediterranean and boreal. The known range of several species is considerably expanded. These include Aloina hamulus, extended to northern Mexico, southern United States and El Salvador; Aloina rigida to South America, Aloinella catenula to Ecuador, Crossidium aberrans to the Mediterranean region and C. crassinerve to other parts of Mexico and the United States. The range of A. rigida var. mucronulata and others is mapped for the first time. 
10.2307/3243903|The species of the genus Caloplaca occurring on seashore rocks in eastern North America have been studied with regard to taxonomy, geographical distribution, and ecology. Five species were found to inhabit the coastal rocks. The species also occur in Europe, and three of them in Asia. Three of the species, C. microthallina (Wedd.) Zahlbr., C. scopularis (Nyl.) Lettau, and C. verruculifera (Vainio) Zahlbr. occur exclusively on seashore rocks, while C. lithophila H. Magn. and C. fraudans (Th. Fr.) H. Olivier occur also in inland localities. One-way analysis of variance of both morphological and anatomical characters was carried out on the American and the European populations of the species, except C. fraudans. No significant differences were found in C. lithophila, but in the other three species significant differences were recorded in two or three characters. However, the differences were mostly very small, the overlaps large, and no discontinuities could be detected. Therefore no infraspecific taxa were recognized.
41289786|The North American hepatic flora includes 24 species of Lophozia distributed among five subgenera and five species of Schistochilopsis. Lophozia pacifica Bakalin is described as new to science, based on retuse leaves clearly decurrent on the dorsal side of the stem and fusiformcylindrical perianth. Lophozia sect. Heteromorphae R. M. Schust. and I. sect. Savicziae Bakalin are synonymized with L. sect. Lophozia. Lophozia sect. Longidentatae R. M. Schust. is synonymized with Lophozia sect. Excisae R. M. Schust. New combinations are proposed: Lophozia subg. Obtusifolium (H. Buch) Bakalin comb, nov., Lophozia subg. Sudeticae (Schljakov) Bakalin comb, nov., Schistochilopsis sect. Heterogemmae (Jrg.) Bakalin comb, nov., Schistochilopsis incisa var. opacifolia (Culmann) Bakalin comb. nov.
20485778|Hypogymnia minilobata is described as a new species of lichenized fungi from the coast of southern California and the Channel Islands. Previously lumped under H. occidentalis, H. minilobata is distinguished from that species by its small size, consistently appressed growth form, slightly smaller and more elongate spores, and distinct ITS and GPD sequences. So far H. minilobata is known from coastal scrub and woodlands, and is especially common in the Los Osos and Baywood areas of San Luis Obispo County, California.
10.2307/3241996|Samples of Collema nigrescens (Huds.) DC., Hypogymnia enteromorpha (Ach.) Nyl. and Parmelia sulcata Tayl. were fumigated with peroxyacetylnitrate (PAN) daily for 4 h periods over 7-8 days at concentrations of 100 and 50 ppb. All of these species as well as Peltigera rufescens (Weis.) Humb. were fumigated for 1 h at 200 ppb PAN. Injury was evaluated as reduction in gross photosynthesis during the fumigation periods. Results of the long term, low concentration fumigations show that P. sulcata is more sensitive to PAN than H. enteromorpha and that C. nigrescens is apparently unaffected under the experimental conditions. Results of the acute high dose fumigation show slight enhancement of photosynthesis in all species except H. enteromorpha. With the exception of C. nigrescens, laboratory results are generally consistent with unpublished observations of distribution and vitality of the species in the field.
10.2307/3241360|Mnium subpunctatum Card. & Broth., described from the Andes of Patagonia, belongs to Cinclidium Sw. and is evidently conspecific with C. stygium Sw. The typification of M. subpunctatum is suggested.
10.2307/3242223|Two relatively small collections of mosses from British Honduras yielded 51 species, of which 23 apparently have not been reported previously from this country. In addition to being closely related to that of Guatemala, the moss flora of British Honduras also demonstrates close affinities with the West Indian moss flora.
10.2307/3244081| Through a survey at Salazar Lake, Municipio de Ocoyoacac, State of Mexico, a single stem of Fissidens crispus Mont. was recovered from a depth of 45-50 cm. Radiometric dating indicates an age of 2,420  40 years BP for the sample. This is the first record of a fossil or subfossil moss in Mexico. 
10.2307/3243758|Grimmia crassifolia Lindb. is reported for the first time in Europe from the area of Assenograd (Bulgaria). The species is illustrated and notes are given on its morphology, distribution, and ecology.
10.2307/3243760| The filamentous microlichen Coenogonium missouriense sp. nov. (Coenogoniaceae, ascolichens) is described from the wet walls of a dimly lit dolomite cave in Missouri. The highly characteristic pastel green filaments are long, profusely branched, and 7-13 m wide. Thephycobiont, Physolinum monilia (De Wildem.) Printz (Trentepohliaceae, Chlorophyta), is tightly corticated by a flattened single layer of laterally adherent hyaline fungus cells. Hyaline ovate spores with walls covered by short spines occurred in groups of about eight near the mycobiont. 
10.2307/3242217|Populations of the cosmopolitan moss species Funaria hygrometrica Hedw. and Weissia controversa Hedw. were examined to determine the existence of inter- or intra-specific differences in response to the nutrient environment. Little intra-specific variation was observed. Both species had optimum growth at pH 8.0-8.5; Weissia was less tolerant than Funaria of extremes in pH. The nutrient concentrations in IN BBM (Bold's Basal Medium) generally produced maximum growth in Funaria while Weissia had lower requirements for iron, phosphorus and certain forms of nitrogen. The relative tolerance of these species for high pH and nutrient levels may account for the preference of Funaria for burned-over areas and for the more limited habitat distribution of Weissia.
10.2307/3240748|Neohyophila is offered as a new name for Hyophilopsis Crum 1965 non Card. & Dix. 1911 with the combinations N. sprengelii (Schwaegr. as Barbula), N. spathulifolia (Bartr. as Desmatodon), N. stomatodonta (Card. as Hyophila), and N. lingulata (Card. as Hyophila).
10.2307/3242737| The bryoflora of the Ganymede Heights ablation area of Alexander Island, Antarctica, a largely barren, dry, ice-free area, is low in species composition yet it possesses the greatest diversity of bryophytes known for any area south of 70S. Several bryophyte and lichen taxa are at the southern limit of their known range while some mosses are more abundant or more profusely fertile here than at 10 farther north, where environmental conditions are much more favourable for growth. 
10.2307/3240827| The names Heterophyllium, Heterophyllum, and Heterophyllon are evaluated, and Heterophyllium (Schimp.) C. Mll. ex Kindb. is considered the correct name of the genus with H. nemorsoum (W. Koch ex Brid.) Kindb. as the type species. All other species previously assigned to this genus thus far examined are synonymous with H. nemorosum or should be transferred to other genera. The genus Acanthocladiella Fleisch. is reserved for a group of African species, Heterophyllium haldenianum is returned to the genus Hypnum, and Heterophyllium piligerum is synonymized with Isopterygium longitheca. Three new combinations are made: Acanthocladiella albescens (P. de la Varde) Robins. & Reed, A. guineensis (Broth. & Par.) Robins. & Reed, and A. julicaulis (Broth. & Par.) Robins. & Reed. 
3244697| Cololejeunea javanica (Steph.) Mizut. and C. mackeeana Tixier are proposed as synonyms of C. angustiflora (Steph.) Mizut. Cololejeunea flavicans (Steph.) Mizut., previously synonymous with C. javanica, is reinstated. The position of hyaline papilla in Cololejeunea ciliata Pcs is the same as that in C. angustiflora. Cololejeunea ciliata is distinguished from C. angustiflora primarily by the irregularly ciliate-dentate margin of the leaf. 
10.2307/3243831|Monoblastia pellucida is described as a new species of the poorly known lichen genus Monoblastia. The species is remarkable because it lacks carbonization of the ascocarp, a rare feature among pyrenocarpous lichens. The genus is placed in the family Monoblastiaceae together with Ditremis (syn. Anisomeridium) and Acrocordia.
3244874|The unique ability to perform targeted gene disruption in mosses has made Physcomitrella patens an attractive choice for plant functional genomics. A cDNA ALDH11A5 (AY504666) was identified in the plant P. patens with significant similarity to the cytosolic NADP
10.2307/3243672|The southeastern Asiatic genus Horikawaea, including two species-H. nitida Nog. and H. dubia (Tix.) Lin-occurs in China, from southeastern China southwards, and west to Xizang. A key, illustrations, and map are provided for the two species.
3244681|The circumscription of the Plagiotheciaceae was evaluated cladistically, using anatomical and morphological data, plus rps4 and trnL-trnF gene sequences. Two analyses were conducted with 37 ingroup species, representing 14 genera, and eight outgroup species. First, the rps4 (73 informative nucleotide sites) plus trnL-trnF data set (39 sites) was analyzed alone. This initial analysis suggests a highly polyphyletic Plagiotheciaceae, with Acrocladium, Catagonium, Herzogiella, Isopterygiopsis pulchella (Hedw.) Iwats., Isopterygium, Plagiothecium piliferum (Sw.) Schimp., Pseudotaxiphyllum elegans (Brid.) Iwats., P. pohliaecarpum (Sull. & Lesq.) Iwats., Rhizofabronia, Struckia, and Taxiphyllum placed among the outgroup taxa. In a second analysis, the rps4 + trnL-trnF data set was combined with anatomical and morphological data (adding 53 informative characters). The results of the latter analysis are congruent with the first analysis regarding Herzogiella adscendens (Lindb.) Iwats., Isopterygium, and Taxiphyllum, but resolves the rest of the Plagiotheciaceae as a monophyletic group. The results suggest that the following genera belong to the family: Acrocladium, Bardunovia, Catagonium, Herzogiella, Isopterygiopsis, Orthothecium, Myurella, Plagiothecium, Platydictya, Pseudotaxiphyllum, Rhizofabronia, and Struckia. DNA sequence, morphological, and anatomical data are all important when evaluating the circumscription and internal relationships of the family. We suggest that especially the relationships among Plagiothecium, Pseudotaxiphyllum, and Struckia species can be better resolved by additional molecular evidence. The ancestor of the Plagiotheciaceae was most likely a southern temperate species, whereas most of the later diversification within the family occurred in the northern temperate zone. Only one genus, Rhizofabronia, evolved in tropical mountains, whereas scattered members of other genera occur in similar environments. Adaptations for calcareous substrates evolved either in the ancestor of the entire Isopterygiopsis-Plagiothecium clade and were lost twice, or they evolved independently in Isopterygiopsis and in a clade consisting of Bardunovia, Myurella, Orthothecium, and Platydictya.
10.2307/3241142|Infrared, ultraviolet, and nuclear magnetic resonance data, not previously reported for lecanoric acid, were obtained with a pure sample of the compound isolated from Parmelia tinctorum Del. ex Nyl. This lichen also contained atranorin and chloroatranorin. The same substances were isolated from Pseudevernia intensa (Nyl.) Hale & W. Culb. Chloroatranorin had not previously been detected in either of these species.
10.2307/3240511|Cetraria alaskana, a new, endemic, tundra-inhabiting species from western Alaska, is described. It differs from its nearest relatives morphologically in lacking soredia and chemically in producing the depsides imbricaric acid and atranorin. Pure imbricaric acid was isolated from the new species and its identity proven chemically. The pure sample was used for microchemical comparisons with the chemically very closely related but much more common depsides perlatolic acid and divaricatic acid, both of which frequently occur as constituents of species closely allied taxonomically to species producing imbricaric acid.
10.2307/3241895| The Harold E. Moore collections of Hepaticae and Anthocerotae are reported from New Caledonia, Seychelles, Mauritius and Runion. Lejeunea denudata, Riccardia valida and Tetracymbaliella comptonii are new combinations. 
10.2307/3241361|Mnium saximontanum, a new dioicous diploid moss, is described from Colorado.
10.2307/3242400| Rich lichen communities on trunks of Nothofagus dombeyi (Mirb.) Bl. on Volcn Villarica (Cautn Province) are dominated by Hypogymnia physodes (Kremph.) Ohlsson, Nephroma antarcticum (Wulf.) Nyl., Psoroma sphinctrinum (Mont.) Nyl., Pseudocyphellaria flavicans (Hook & Tayl.) Vain., P. impressa and P. crocata (L.) Vain. These species show varying patterns of frequency dominance and successional relationships. 
3244280|Symphyodon Mont., a genus of pleurocarpous mosses, is comprised of 15 species. Species of Symphyodon, all dioicous, are primarily epiphytic and characterized by having echinate capsules, distally roughened or papillose setae, and prorate leaf cells. The genus is chiefly distributed in the tropical and the subtropical regions of the world with the majority of the taxa centered in southern and southeastern Asia. A detailed study of the peristome structure supports recognition of Symphyodon in its own family, Symphyodontaceae. The family is retained in the Leucodontales, suborder Neckerineae. All species are illustrated. Keys, descriptions, and distribution maps are provided.
10.2307/3242696|Reported from Bathurst Inlet region in the central northern continental arctic of North America are 214 species representing 223 taxa. The majority are circumpolar species, seven are western arctic, three are possibly eastern arctic. Pertusaria excludens is reported from the American arctic and Peltigera occidentalis is confirmed for North America. New combinations are Aspicila arctica (Lynge) Thorns. and Aspicilia bennettii (Lynge) Thorns.
10.2307/3243396|Syrrhopodon stoneae and S. prolifer var. mossmanensis are described as new from Queensland, Australia.
10.2307/3243073| Mosses from Mexico and Central America that have been referred to Leptohymenium ehrenbergianum (C.M.) Fleisch. ex Thr. for the past 50 years belong to two distinct species. Those from Mexico are conspecific with the southeastern Asian plants of Leptohymenium tenue (Hook.) Schwaegr., whereas most of the plants from Central America belong to Elmeriobryum guatemalense Rohrer, sp. nov. 
10.2307/3243591| The formerly monotypic genus Ahtiana (type species: A. sphaerosporella (Mll. Arg.) Goward is shown to include two additional species, A. aurescens (Tuck.) Thell & Randl. and A. pallidula (Riddle) Goward & Thell. All three species are endemic to North America, and are characterized by their greenish yellow upper surface, globose ascospores, and caperatic acid in the medulla. The habitat ecology of these lichens is very specialized. Ahtiana is presumably most closely related to Tuckneraria Randl. & Thell and other cetrarioid genera having globose ascospores. 
10.2307/3242802|A preliminary checklist of lichens from the interior foothills of central California includes 76 species. Three seldom-collected species-Rhizoplaca marginalis, R. glaucophana and Peltula zahlbruckneri-are among the taxa listed.
10.2307/3242252|The monotypic genus Awasthia (Physciaceae) resembles Phaeophyscia but is distinguished by the unusual branched, rough-surfaced, paraplectenchymatous rhizines and the presence of gyrophoric and lecanoric acids. Awasthia melanotricha is known presently only from the Himalayas.
10.2307/3244080| The anatomy and chemistry of Lecanora flavopallida indicate that this corticolous species differs from the taxa of the Lecanora subfusca group in having almost biatorine apothecia and in lacking an amphithecial cortex. However, it is regarded here as a species of Lecanora sensu stricto, since it agrees basically in its apothecial anatomy and conidial shape. The circumscription of Lecanora sensu stricto is briefly discussed. Lecanora glaucoflavens Mll. Arg. and L. lineolata Mll. Arg. are reduced to synonymy with L. flavopallida. 
10.2307/3241100|Two vascular plants, 18 lichens, and five bryophytes were collected above 2,140 meters (7,000 feet) on an exposed ridge of an alpine summit on the north side of the Alaska Range. The vascular plants, Chrysosplenium wrightii and Saxifraga oppositifolia, were found up to 2,195 meters (7,000 feet) and 2,165 meters (7100 feet) respectively. Several of the mosses were found as high as 2,286 meters (7,500 feet), and several lichens grew above 2,320 meters (7,600 feet).
3244593|The objective was to determine the major photo synthetic pigments in dry specimens of extant lichens as well as in Late Holocene subfossils that had been buried beneath ice in North Greenland. Dry specimens collected live contained up to 15 pigments, while subfossils of Umbilicaria cylindrica, U. krascheninnikovii, and U. hyperborea subfossils contained fewer, including chlorophyll a, in some cases chlorophyll b, and up to seven carotenoids. Concentrations were lower in subfossils, but pigments were shown to survive glaciation for up to 1,350 yr plus dry storage under herbarium conditions for up to 4 yr. High performance liquid chromatography revealed a preponderance of rapidly-eluted peaks in subfossils that were relatively inconspicuous in extracts of extant material, and these may have represented degradation products. Specimens of U. hyperborea were older than those of other species and yielded the lowest chlorophyll a/b ratios as well as the lowest F
41289804|Lichens collected from Bangladesh in 1968 and 2002 are reported, the first published account for the country. In all, 51 species could be identified, most of which are pantropical (75%), four are cosmopolitan, and one uncertain species is restricted to Eurasia. Only one species, Ocellularia keralensis y is probably restricted to the Indian subcontinent, while three are restricted to tropical Asia and three are palaeotropical. The lichen flora appears to be a poor, wet lowland tropical one.
20485809|The taxonomic identity and the geographical relationships of the Macaronesian endemic moss Fissidens luisieri have been studied using the chloroplast
10.2307/3240667|One new genus and five new species of Asian mosses are described: Mitrobryum with M. koelzii, Syrrhopodon assamicus, Epipterygium koelzii, Macromitrium incrustatifolium, and Thuidium koelzii. Keys to some Indian species of Funaria and Thuidium are given, based in part on a study of type specimens. Asian records are cited for Barbula michiganensis Steere and Ditrichum tortuloides Grout, and notes are given for 47 other species.
10.2307/3244389| Based mainly on North American and European material and on type specimens from other parts of the world, the genus Campylium s.l. is revised at the genus level. The genus in its earlier wide sense is polyphyletic, and two monophyletic and three paraphyletic or probably paraphyletic species groups are recognized here. The monophyletic groups are the genera Campylium (Sull.) Mitt. s. str. (including C. laxifolium Engelmark & Hedens, C. longicuspis (Lindb, & H. Arn.) Hedens, C. protensum (Brid.) Kindb., C. stellatum (Hedw.) C. Jens.), and Campyliadelphus (Kindb.) R. S. Chopra (C. chrysophyllus (Brid.) Kanda, C. elodes (Lindb.) Kanda, C. glaucocarpoides (Salm.) Hedens comb. nov.). One of the other groups is clearly paraphyletic and its species are actually members of the genus Drepanocladus (C. Mll.) Roth (D. arcticus (Williams) Hedens comb. nov., D. cardotii (Thr.) Hedens comb. nov., D. polygamus (B., S. & G.) Hedens comb. nov.). The second most probable paraphyletic group consists of species that are closely related to some Hypnum species such as H. pallescens (Hedw.) B., S. & G. and H. recurvatum (Lindb. & Arn.) Kindb. Awaiting a generic revision of Hypnum, the species of this group are here referred to the genus Campylophyllum (Schimp.) Fleisch. (C. calcareum (Crundw. & Nyh.) Hedens comb. nov., C. creperum (Mitt.) Hedens comb. nov., C. halleri (Hedw.) Fleisch., C. hispidulum (Brid.) Hedens comb. nov., C. lacerulum (Mitt.) Hedens comb. nov., C. quisqueyanum (Buck) Hedens comb. nov., C. sommerfeltii (Myr.) Hedens comb. nov.). Finally, the species often called Campylium radicale (P. Beauv.) Grout is referred to Amblystegium as A. radicale (P. Beauv.) Schimp., which is the correct name for this species in Amblystegium because Schimper clearly referred to the Palisot de Beauvois taxon when he made this combination. The new taxonomic treatment of Campylium s.l. species is suggested by features of the vegetative leaf costa, alar group structure, lamina cells (prorate or not), pseudoparaphyllia, exostome, and endostome structure, as well as by the overall size of the plants and the habitat preferences of the species. The spreading, channelled leaf acumina cannot outweigh this set of characters and must thus have evolved independently several times among these taxa. 
10.2307/3242448|Seven species of mosses are added to the flora of the island of Newfoundland, Canada. Two previously reported species are deleted, and additional distributional records are provided for eight other species.
10.2307/3243486|Calymperopsis elimbatus Tix. sp. nov. and C. mandrakensis Tix. sp. nov. are described from Madagascar.
20485788|A new species of Leskeaceae, Pseudoleskea tribulosa, is described and illustrated from limestone outcrops in subalpine coniferous forests of Yosemite National Park in the central Sierra Nevada of California.
10.2307/3240894|Procedures for harvesting, sterilizing of surface contamination, and culturing of gemmae of Marchantia polymorpha are described. Conditions for the production of abundant gemmae in large numbers of gemmae cups on stock plants are prescribed. Recommendations are presented for the handling of gemmae in irradiation studies.
10.2307/3243305|Four species of the lichen genus Sclerophyton are recognized in the coastal areas of the Sonoran Desert. Sclerophyton cerebriforme Egea & Torrente and S. rostratum Egea & Torrente, are described as new. Sclerophyton circumscriptum (Tayl.) Zahlbr. is reported for the first time from America. Additional notes on Sclerophyton elegans and S. inscriptum are presented. Sclerophyton occidentale Herre is excluded from the order Arthoniales.
10.2307/3243610|The cygneous seta, in the absence of additional support, does not appear to be a reliable indicator of generic homogeneity in Campylopus. Circumscribing Campylopus to include only those species having costal ventral hyalocysts is a possible first step in dividing the genus along more natural lines. However, such a division is incongruent with the presence of species pairs that differ only in whether the costa has ventral hyalocysts or ventral stereids. Such a species pair is seen in C. andersonii and C. atlanticus, a new species from Panama. Bryohumbertia filifolia var. longifolia (Bartr.) Allen is a new combination.
10.2307/3244082|Sulcaria badia, a rare lichen endemic to western North America, had not been collected since 1971 despite more than two decades of active field work in the area of the type location. A search was undertaken to determine the current range of the species. Sulcaria badia was found on hardwood trees, mainly Quercus garryana, up to 60 km inland, and in hypermaritime Pinus contorta var. contorta forests. We found four groups of sites in northern California and Oregon. Sulcaria badia appears to be extirpated from the Washington site. Most sites are in danger due to pollution and tree removal from human settlement. Sulcaria badia was accepted to the world red-list of lichens with the status "critically endangered"
10.2307/3240988|The foliose lichen Cavernularia hultenii Degel, previously known from Alaska, British Columbia, central Scandinavia, and Scotland, has been collected in Newfoundland as the first record for eastern North America as well as in Washington, Oregon, and California.
10.2307/3243225|The new species Hypogymnia oceanica is described from British Columbia, Canada, where it occurs as an epiphyte in humid localities, particularly along the outer coast. Physodic, physodalic, and protocetraric acids are its primary phenolic constituents. Hypogymnia oceanica is evidently a vicariad of the fertile H. occidentalis Pike & Hale. A key to the Hypogymniae of North America is provided.
10.2307/3242454|Three mosses previously unreported from Texas, Fontinalis sullivantii Lindb., Fontinalis novae-angliae var. cymbifolia (Aust.) Welch, and Fissidens adianthoides Hedw., have been identified among specimens collected in southeast Texas.
10.2307/3241218|Thirty-seven species of mosses are reported from the Valley of Kashmir, including Pterygoneuron ovatum (Hedw.) Dix., new to India.
20061120|Leioderma cherokeense P. M. Jrg. & Tnsberg sp. nov. is described from North Carolina, U.S.A., where it grows on bases of trunks of Liriodendron tulipifera. Apothecia and structures for vegetative dispersal are not known. The genus Leioderma is new to eastern North America.
10.2307/3240787|Sphagnum cuspidatum Ehrh. is reported as new to the flora of Kansas and Missouri. Sphagnum cuspidatum Ehrh. is a new record for the flora of Kansas and Missouri.
10.2307/3243881|Caduciella guangdongensis sp. nov. (Leptodontaceae, Musci) from Guangdong Province, southeastern China, is described and illustrated. It is distinguished from the other species of this genus, C. mariei, by the shorter and weaker costa, sharper, usually mucronate leaf apices, and serrulate leaf margins. Perichaetial leaves are described for the first time for Caduciella.
10.2307/3240625|Mollia tortuosa v. arctica Arnell, described from Siberia, is a good species widely distributed in the American arctic. It is also present in Colorado and in Yunnan. It replaces Tortella tortuosa in the arctic, and differs from it ecologically. Occasional specimens approach T. tortuosa rather closely. There is a more superficial resemblance to Trichostomum cuspidatissimum, but the two are in practice rarely confused.
10.2307/3243751|A total of 622 species and 10 subspecies and varieties of lichens, plus six species of lichenicolous fungi, are reported from Alaska, the Yukon, British Columbia, and Alberta, mainly along the Alaska Highway and some of its side roads in lichenologically badly known regions. Anaptychia bryorum is new to the North American Arctic, Gongylia nadvornikii, Lichenodium sirosiphoideum and Stereocaulon capitellatum are new to North America, and Degelia plumbea is new to western North America. Verrucaria lobata Thomson sp. nov. is described from British Columbia. New to Alaska are: Acarospora superfusa, Amygdalaria subdissentiens, Aspicilia karelica, A. quartzitica, Bacidia herbarum, Brigantiaea fuscolutea, Bryonora curvescens, Bryoria friabilis, Calicium abietinum, Caloplaca borealis, C. ammiospila, C. sinapisperma, Chaenotheca xyloxena, Cladonia macroceras, C. ochrochlora, Collema crispum, C. curtisporum, Cyphelium tigillare, Graphis scripta, Heterodermia speciosa, Hypocenomyce scalaris, Hypogymnia occidentalis, Lecanora fuscescens, Lecidea erythrophaea, L. leptoboloides, L. lulensis, L. stenotera, Leprocaulon subalbicans, Leptogium cyanescens, L. teretiuscula, Melanelia sorediata, M. tominii, Nephroma helveticum subsp. sipeanum, Parmelia hygrophila, Parmeliella triptophylla, Pertusaria borealis, Phylliscum tenue, Physcia subtilis, Psora lurida, Psorotichia schaereri, Pyrenopsis polycocca, Usnea filipendula, U. wasmuthii, Verrucaria funckii, Xanthoparmelia somloensis. New to Alberta are: Biatora carneoalbida, Bryoria capillaris, Candelariella lutella, C. xanthostigma, Collema furfuraceum, Lecania dubitans, Lecidea albohyalina, L. myriocarpella, Phaeophyscia cernohorskyi, P. hispidula, Ramalina obtusata, Rinodina oregona. New to British Columbia are: Acarospora smaragdula, A. veronensis, Actinogyra muehlenbergii, Adelolechia pilati, Arthrorhaphis alpina, Aspicilia anseris, A. caesiopruinosa, A. disserpens, A. fimbriata, A. ryrkaipiae, A. subplicigera, Baeomyces roseus, Biatora carneoalbida, Bryocaulon divergens, Bryonora castanea, Caloplaca ammiospila, C. tetraspora, Catapyrenium cinereum, C. compactum, Cladonia thomsonii, Collema glebulentum, Kiliasia athallina, Lecidea alpestris, Leciophysma finmarkicum, Lepraria lobificans, Micarea crassipes, Pertusaria alaskensis, P. coriacea, P. gyalectina, Phaeophyscia hirtella, Polyblastia obsoleta, P. terrestris, P. theleodes, Rhizocarpon eupetraeum, R. eupetraeoides, P. umbilicatum fo. pseudospeireum, Rinodina occidentalis, Staurothele drummondii, Thelidium absconditum, Toninia tristis, Usnea angulata, U. capitata, Verrucaria devergens, V. rupestris. New to Yukon are: Actinogyra muehlenbergii, Amygdalaria panaeola, Aspicilia aliena, A. cingulata, A. disserpens, A. heteroplaca, A. ryrkaipiae, A. subplicigera, Bryonora castanea, Bryoria trichodes subsp. americana, Buellia elegans, Calicium viride, Caloplaca crenularia, C. discolor, C. invadens, C. nivalis, C. pyracea, Candelariella athallina, C. dispersa, C. lutella, Cetraria californica, Cladonia alaskana, C. bacilliformis, C. borealis, C. luteoalba, C. sulphurina, Collema crispum, Dermatocarpon intestiniforme, D. miniatum, Ephebe hispidula, Lecanora atrosulphurea, L. boligera, L. gangaleoides, L. intricata, L. straminea, L. strobilina, Lecidea alpestris, L. lapicida fo. ochracea, L. subcandida, Lecidella carpathica, L. elaeochroma, L. wulfenii, Lepraria caesioalba, Leproloma cacuminum, Leptogium tenuissimum, Melanelia infumata, Micarea peliocarpa, Parmeliella arctophila, Peltigera kristinssonii, Polyblastia sendtneri, Psilolechia lucida, Psorotichia schaereri, Rhizocarpon alpicola, R. cinereonigrum, Rinodina bischoffii, Squamarina lentigera, Staurothele elenkinii, Stereocaulon saxatile.
10.2307/3241525|Abnormal carpocephala with branched stalks and branched discs comparable with those of Neohodgsonia are described in Marchantia palmata and M. subintegra. Their probable phylogenetic significance in deriving Marchantia-like forms from Neohodgsonia-like ancestors is discussed.
10.2307/3243902| Examination of Per Dusn's collections of Syrrhopodon Schwaegr. subg. Pseudocalymperes Broth. from Cameroon reveals six distinct species: S. africanus (Mitt.) Paris, S. disciformis Dusn, S. parasiticus (Brid.) Besch., S. perdusenii Reese, S. subdisciformis Dusn, and S. virgulicola Reese. The six species represent a greater concentration of species of S. subg. Pseudocalymperes than is known elsewhere in the world. Syrrhopodon (Pseudo-calymperes) disciformis, S. (P.) spurio-disciformis, and S. (P.) subdisciformis-all described as new from Cameroon by Dusn-are lectotypified. Syrrhopodon disciformis and S. subdisciformis are distinct species; S. spurio-disciformis is a synonym of S. africanus (Mitt.) Paris. 
40732287|The new combination Polycoccum hymeniicola is introduced and a description of this insufficiently known fungus provided. This species and Chalara lobariae, Merismatium nigritellum, and Niesslia lobariae are new to North America. Arthrorhaphis aeruginosa, Lichenopuccinia poeltii, Opegrapha sphaerophoricola, and Roselliniella cladoniae are new to Alaska. Specimens of Abrothallus sp. with associated conidiomata on Erioderma sorediatum and of Paranectria cf. alstrupii on Fuscopannaria laceratula are discussed.
10.2307/3240669|The elongation and further development of female involucres into ordinary vegetative thalli has been reconstructed from herbarium specimens for Metzgeria imberbis Jack & Steph. of Argentina and M. grollei, a new species of the subantarctic Prince Edward Island. The elongated involucral shoot shows a distinct differentiation of midrib and the lamina, as well as the essential structural features of the vegetative thallus of each species. This involucral growth occurs either in the absence of the calyptra or associated with the developing calyptra. Metzgeria grollei is not at all related to M. imberbis, but has a rather close affinity with the well known M. furcata, a species with a bipolar distribution.
3244291|Calymperes venezuelanum (Mitt.) Pitt. (Musci, Calymperaceae), with a scattered range in central and northern, tropical South America, is reported for the first time from Africa on a single collection from Madagascar. The presence of young and mature sporophytes in the material allows description of the sporophyte, which was previously unknown.
10.2307/3241480|Qualitative and quantitative analysis by paper chromatography revealed 12 free amino acids in Parmelia wallichiana and 7 in Leptogium azureum.
10.2307/3243570|The
3244284|Based on morphology, Sphagnum cuspidatum and S. viride have been recognized as two different species. Morphs corresponding to the two taxa were investigated in nine populations situated in Norway, Denmark, Canada, and U.S.A. Eleven putative isozyme loci were used to map genetic variation and to assess the taxonomic relationships. Cluster analysis of allele frequency data did not produce groups corresponding either to the two species or to geographic regions. Low evolutionary rates because of low mutation rates and large effective population sizes may account for the lack of divergence between populations, even across continents. A test of population differentiation showed significant divergence between the two morphs in one population indicating that they might be reproductively isolated. However, in five other populations containing both morphs no such patterns were found suggesting that the speciation process is incomplete. A species level recognition of these taxa is not supported by isozyme data, rather taxonomic recognition at the subspecific level may be more appropriate. A population of S. trinitense expressed unique allele combinations, supporting the view that it is a distinct species different from S. cuspidatum.
10.2307/3243080| Didymodon australasiae var. umbrosus (C. Mll.) Zand. is reported from an established site in the Niagara River Gorge, New York State, U.S.A. This disjunct station may be due to chance importation through a nearby botanical garden. A fourth U.S.A. collection from the state of New Mexico is also reported. 
10.2307/3240942|The range of Sphagnum macrophyllum extends from Texas and Florida to southeastern Newfoundland (Avalon Peninsula). A new variety, S. macrophyllum var. burinense, is described which, as a rule, entirely lacks pores. It behaves like a geographical antipode to the southern var. floridanum, which is especially rich in pores. However, var. floridanum appears to be only a dry-habitat modification of var. macrophyllum, as is indicated by field studies and by specimens showing an alteration of characters from the upper to the lower branches or even within a single leaf. In Newfoundland S. macrophyllum appears to be confined to bog pools and in Nova Scotia to ponds. In the U.S.A. the range of habitats is wider, including fen sites and ditches.
10.2307/3241814|The genus Archidium has been discovered for the first time in Mexico with the collection of A. hallii Aust., a species previously known only as a disjunct between the southern United States and Argentina. It is distinguished from the morphologically similar A. tenerrimum Mitt. on the basis of the former having an autoicous sex condition and the latter being paroicous.
10.2307/3242757|An enumeration of and key to North American (west of the Hundredth Meridian) species of Cephaloziellaceae are presented. A discussion of the distinguishing characteristics of each taxon and a distributional list with map is provided from the specimens examined. A total of 11 taxa (10 species and a variety) are reviewed here; of these Cephaloziella arctica is new to Colorado, C. elachista is new to Washington, C. divaricata is new to Nevada and Utah, C. divaricata var. scabra is new to Colorado and Texas, C. rubella and C. subdentata are new to California.
10.2307/3242054|The hepatics collected by the Wilkes Expedition (1838-1842) were lost in transit when Sullivant sent them to Gottsche for naming. The Sullivant herbarium at FH contains original drawings of sixteen specimens, including those of one new taxon from Oregon and seven new taxa from Tierra del Fuego, published by Sullivant before the collection left his hands.
3244340|Metzgeria angusta Steph., a species recorded from numerous localities in the New World, is lectotypified and redescribed. The syntype material is heterogeneous and includes seven different species. As lectotypified here, Metzgeria angusta is similar to M. albinea Spruce and is reduced to varietal status under the latter, as Metzgeria albinea var angusta (Steph.) Costa & Gradst. stat. nov. (= Metzgeria angusta var pectinata Schiffn., syn. nov.). The variety occurs in Mexico, Trinidad, and southeastern Brazil.
10.2307/3243217|A survey of marine and maritime lichens growing on serpentine rock on the north shore of Washington Park, Fidalgo Island (Skagit Co.), Washington reveals at least 61 species of lichens. Verrucaria sandstedei B. de Lesd. is reported for the first time from North America, and 15 other species are newly recorded for Washington. Of the positively identified species, none were serpentine endemics. A mixture of silicolous and calcicolous species was present.
43188728|Trevigen's HT Colorimetrie PARP/Apoptosis Assay was used to determine the effect of three flavones on PARP-like activity associated with DNA repair in thalli of Marchantia polymorpha exposed to prior UV-C radiation when compared to white light-exposed controls. Thalli placed in solutions of the naturally-occurring flavones apigenin and quercetin showed significantly decreased PARP-like activity after UV-C exposure, but thalli in luteolin solution showed increased PARP-like activity when compared to PBS-treated controls. These effects were not seen with exposure to white light alone when compared to PBS-treated controls. This research is the first to be conducted in bryophytes and suggests a critical control point for PARP-like activity in these organisms.
10.2307/3243201| The hepatics collected by the Wilkes Expedition (1838-1842) were found at the Institut fr Allgemeine Botanik at Hamburg. The author gives a list of the 59 Fuegian collections, updates the nomenclature of the species contained, provides transcriptions of the original labels and describes the drawings that were included. 
10.2307/3242044|Plasmolysis of non-ramified and ramified protonema at the 7- and 6-cell stage, respectively, was investigated in Bartramia pomiformis. Osmotic concentration of the cells in both non-ramified and ramified protonema is smallest in the apical cell and increases to a maximum in the basal cell. The apico-basal polarity in osmotic concentrations in Bartramia pomiformis is the reverse of that reported for a fern. The protoplasts in non-ramified protonema separate from cell walls at the apical end in apical and basal cells, while in intermediate cells the protoplasts separate in various ways.
10.2307/3243714| Meiotic chromosome studies were made on 18 species of Ontario and Qubec mosses in 14 genera and 12 families. The chromosome number of Orthotrichum stellatum Brid. (n = 10 + m) is reported for the first time. The number n = 14 is reported for Qubec plants of Trematodon ambiguus (Hedw.) Hornsch. which differs from the only other recorded number of n = 13 + 2 for the species. The first chromosome counts for North American populations of Brachythecium salebrosum (Web. & Mohr) B.S.G., Leucobryum glaucum (Hedw.) Aongstr. ex Fr., and Orthotrichum anomalum Hedw. are reported. 
20061147|Dominant patterns and processes in rare bryophyte ecology are presented within the framework of current rarity theory. Available evidence suggests that bryophyte conservation should primarily consider the importance of establishment and habitat requirements for rare species. Preservation of rare and high quality habitats is essential. Future understanding of causes of rarity in bryophytes will benefit most by exploring the ecological drivers that allow species to expand their ranges. Comparisons of rare-common congeners, rare species throughout their range (not only where they are rare) and species currently experiencing range expansions or contractions are likely to yield the most robust and relevant data sets.
10.2307/3241574| Thirteen lichen species are reported for the first time from the Macarao River Basin, Caracas, Venezuela. Baeomyces absolutus Tuck., Chiodecton sanguineum (Sw.) Vain., Dirinaria picta (Sw.) Clem. & Schaer., Heterodermia obscurata (Nyl.) Trev., H. tremulans (Mll. Arg.) W. Culb., and Normandina pulchella (Borr.) Nyl. are new to Venezuela. 
10.2307/3244463|Five taxa of Syrrhopodon subgenus Pseudocalymperes occur in the Neotropics. Their neotropical ranges are summarized and a key is provided. Syrrhopodon africanus subsp. graminicola is reported new to Puerto Rico; S. cymbifolius is reported new to Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Honduras, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, and Venezuela; S. disciformis is reported from Brazil, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominica, Ecuador, French Guiana, Hispaniola (Dominican Republic), Honduras, Jamaica, Martinique, Panama, Puerto Rico, Suriname, Trinidad, and Venezuela; and S. flexifolius is reported new from French Guiana, Suriname, and Trinidad. The sporophyte of S. flexifolius Mitten is described for the first time.
10.2307/3241507|The new species Baeomyces weberi Thoms. is described from New Guinea.
20485776|Through laboratory experiments I showed that ants (Lasius platythorax) may play the role of a passive vector for dispersing asexual propagules (gemmae) of Aulacomnium androgynum. Both species are commonly found on dead wood in Swedish forests. Two experiments were performed: one in which ants were allowed to run over a moss tuft and another where gemmae were attached manually to the ants. The first experiment clearly showed that gemmae adhered to the body of the ants as they moved freely over the moss tuft. In total, gemmae adhered to 33% of the ants within less than 2 minutes of exposure to the moss. The second experiment was conducted to determine how long the gemmae stayed adhered, revealing that under laboratory conditions half the gemmae stayed attached for approximately 4 hours before falling off. The results indicate that dispersal of asexual species may be mediated by animal vectors, thereby explaining why seemingly dispersal-limited species may in fact be target-oriented dispersers through animal vector assistance.
10.2307/3243901|Fourteen species of pyrenocarpous lichens are reported from North America. Catapyrenium congestum is described as new. Catapyrenium podolepis, C. psoromoides, C. umbrinum, Dermatocarpon lorenzianum, Endocarpon adsurgens, Placidiopsis cinerascens, and Verrucaria zamenhofiana are documented for North America for the first time. Catapyrenium rufescens and C. waltheri are confirmed for North America; Placidiopsis cervinula is deleted from the North American lichen checklist. Range extensions are cited for Catapyrenium andicola, C. chilense, C. norvegicum, and Placidiopsis pseudocinerea. Catapyrenium norvegicum is new to Canada. An updated key to the Catapyrenium species in North America is provided.
10.2307/3240806|Frullania aterrima, an endemic hepatic of Aukland and New Zealand, is described and figured.
10.2307/3242721|Metzgeria furcata (L.) Dum. subsp. subundulata Aust. ex Lindb. is raised to specific rank; the type locality is evidently Texas. Metzgeria subundulata (Aust. ex Lindb.) Kuw. belongs to a unique section Serpentina of subgen. Metzgeria.
10.2307/3241427|Forty-eight hepatics, including five new to the state, are reported for the first time from counties in southwestern Wisconsin. The total number of species known from Wisconsin is 129.
10.2307/3241184| Five species are discussed, four of which - Pohlia pluriseta Herz., Cratoneuron filicinum (Hedw.) Roth, Tetraplodon mnioides (Hedw.) Bruch & Schimp., and Pseudodistichium atlanticum Dix. - have not previously been reported from Chile. Pseudodistichium taitaoense J. Frhl. is synonymized with P. atlanticum. 
10.2307/3243835|Tortella fragilis is reported for the first time for South America.
10.2307/3242538| Meteorium aongstromii Manuel, nomen novum is offered for the illegitimate homonym Meteorium henschenii (C.Mll. in Aongstr.) Broth. A lectotype is designated for Papillaria henschenii C.Mll. in Aongstr. The nomen nudum, Penzigiella longinervis Dix. ex Chopra is discussed. 
10.2307/3242754|Thalli from a population of Cladonia cristatella Tuck. were sorted according to morphological characters and the ten most common types were determined on the basis of podetial biomass. From a large podetial sample of each morphotype which was available in sufficient quantity, crude protein extracts were prepared and subjected to isoelectricfocusing. Comparisons were made among common morphological variants on the basis of gels stained for the activity of 12 enzymes. A few of the common morphotypes were sampled more intensively in order to provide an indication of possible enzyme polymorphism within morphological forms. There was little evidence of variation in dehydrogenase enzymes among morphotypes but there were differences with respect to esterase and acid and alkaline phosphatases. However, variation in enzyme forms was also observed within morphotypes. There was, thus, no indication of unusual differences among morphological variants of C. cristatella and also no evidence to suggest that distinct morphological forms are diverging from one another in the population.
10.2307/3241151|The range of Brachydon trichodes (Web.) Nees, Hornsch. & Sturm is extended from New Hampshire to the Great Smoky Mountains of North Carolina and Tennessee. The species grows on rocks in seepages on trails in the spruce-fir forest. Brachydon is a monotypic genus of humid north-temperate regions. Brachyodus flexisetus and Brachyodus bruchioides are species of Campylopodium and Dicranella respectively.
20485752|Desiccation-tolerance, the ability to revive from the air-dried state, is found in prokaryotes, algae and bryophytes, and occasionally in pteridophytes, but is very rare in the vegetative tissues of angiosperms or in animal tissues. However, the vast majority of lichens are desiccation-tolerant. Under natural conditions, the life of most lichens is characterized by rapidly changing water contents, and correspondingly rapidly changing physiological activity such as respiration and photosynthesis. Taken to the extreme, some lichens can revive after being desiccated under controlled laboratory conditions for many months. As a result of their desiccation-tolerance, lichens are extremophiles and can live in places no higher plant can. They may be the predominant life-form in ecosystems characterized by severe environmental stresses such as Arctic, Antarctic and alpine regions, as well as deserts. This review critically assesses our current knowledge about desiccation-tolerance in lichens, concentrating on mechanisms that protect from desiccation-induced damage. Evidence available from other desiccation-tolerant life-forms suggests that desiccation-tolerance is a multifaceted trait involving a suite of interacting mechanisms. The majority of recent studies on mechanisms of lichen desiccation-tolerance have focused on the scavenging of reactive oxygen species, which therefore forms a major part of this review. It is argued that effective control of reactive oxygen species and mutual up-regulation of protective mechanisms was critically important for the evolution of lichens, facilitating the transition from free-living fungi and green algae or cyanobacteria to the lichenized state. Recently developed tools of molecular biology, particularly from the -omics disciplines, have only just started to be applied to lichens. There remain many unsolved questions as to how lichens survive desiccation and the authors hope to encourage more scientists to investigate this intriguing phenomenon.
20110849|Desiccation-tolerance is the unique ability to revive from the air-dried state. In this review, I summarize the distribution of vegetative desiccation-tolerance within the land plants emphasizing bryophytes, and provide a current checklist of those moss, liverwort and hornwort species with documented and experimentally determined tolerance. Desiccation-tolerant species can survive equilibration with either modestly dry air (i.e., 70-80% RH or -30 to -48 MPa) or extremely dry air (i.e., 0-30% RH or less than -162 MPa), and have been identified within seven classes of bryophytes, the Andreaeopsida, Bryopsida, Polytrichopsida and Tetraphidopsida (mosses), Jungermanniopsida and Marchantiopsida (liverworts) and the Anthocerotopsida (hornworts); 210 out of 21,000 bryophyte species (ca. 1.0%) have been experimentally determined to possess vegetative desiccation tolerance--158 species of mosses, 51 species of liverworts and one species of hornwort. Finally, I propose a comprehensive survey of mosses, liverworts and hornworts using a standard procedure that employs modulated chlorophyll fluorescence for analyzing vegetative desiccation-tolerance (i.e., the "Austin Protocol").
43188732|Four new species of Coenogonium are described from the Caribbean island of Puerto RicoC. aurantiacum Mercado-Daz & Lcking, C. borinquense Mercado-Daz & Lcking, C. dimorphicum Mercado-Daz & Lcking and C. portoricense Mercado-Daz & Lcking. All were discovered in small and highly fragmented forest remnants of relatively rare Puerto Rican forest ecosystems, Pterocarpus wetlands and noncalcareous dry forests. The discoveries are discussed relative to the conservation status of these threatened ecosystems, the need to catalogue biodiversity before it vanishes, and the notion that endemism in lichenized fungi in island biotas is potentially much higher than hitherto assumed. A previous world-wide key to Coenogonium is updated to accommodate the new taxa.
10.2307/3240987|Meiotic chromosome counts were made of 22 Washington and Idaho mosses in 14 genera and eight families. The chromosome numbers for 20 taxa are reported for the first time and two other taxa have been found to have a chromosome number different from that previously reported.
10.2307/3243650| An identification key is provided to the 13 taxa of Syrrhopodon Schwaegrichen subg. Pseudocalymperes Brotherus known world-wide. The following are new: Syrrhopodon africanus (Mitten) Paris subsp. graminicola (Williams) Reese comb. et stat. nov; S. africanus subsp. mandrakensis (Tixier) Reese comb. et stat. nov.; Syrrhopodon crenulatus (Tixier) Reese comb. nov.; and S. tixieri Reese nom. nov. pro Calymperopsis elimbata Tixier. Syrrhopodon disciformis Dusn is recognized as distinct from S. parasiticus (Bridel) Bescherelle. A list of names published for taxa belonging to S. subg. Pseudocalymperes is included. An annotated index is provided to the names mentioned in this treatment. 
10.2307/3242537|One hundred sixty-two taxa of mosses are reported from Portage County, Wisconsin. Of these, only twenty-five had been previously reported for the county. Atrichum crispum (James) Sull., A. oerstedianum (C.Muell.) Mitt., Brachythecium reflexum (Starke ex Web. & Mohr) B.S.G. var. pacificum Ren. & Card. ex Roell, Campylium stellatum C. Jens. var. protensum (Brid.) Bryhn ex Grout, Helodium blandowii (Web. & Mohr) Warnst var. helodioides (Red. & Card. ex Roell) Crum, Steere & Anderson, Mnium cinclidioides Hueb. and Sphagnum subsecundum Nees ex Sturm var. rufescens (Nees, Hornsch. & Strum) Hueb. are new to Wisconsin.
10.2307/3241234|Weissia sharpii is described as a new species, whose type locality is Jefferson County, Tennessee. It is closely allied with W. controversa Hedw. but differs in having a tetraploid chromosome number, n = 26; loosely adhering dark green tufts; broadly lanceolate, acute leaves with loosely inrolled margins; and larger leaf cells which have higher and more variable papillae. The new species is apparently restricted to limestone and dolomitic substrates and has been found only in cedar-oak bluffs and cedar barrens of southwestern Virginia, Ohio, Tennessee, Kentucky, northern Alabama and Georgia, and southern Missouri and northern Arkansas.
10.2307/3240797|The aseptic growth of liverworts in microphytotrons - converted, commercially available cabinets - is described. Day and night temperatures, light intensity, light quality, light direction, photoperiod, and nutrients are controlled. The continuous greenhouse culture of certain liverworts for up to four decades is reported.
10.2307/3243071|Fasciculate brown rhizoids were found on the tips of branches of Sphagnum novocaledoniae Paris et Warnst. in Warnst. collected in New Caledonia in 1982, although no textbooks of bryophytes and monographs of Sphagnum note rhizoids as being found on mature gametophytes of this genus. S. novo-caledoniae has been poorly known, and morphological characters and habitat conditions are described.
10.2307/3244176|The current classification of the Arthoniales and phylogenetic hypotheses for the order are discussed. The available phylogenetic analyses of the order lead to a better understanding of certain groups, particularly the Roccellaceae and Chiodecton sensu lato. However, numerous genera in these groups contain a low number of species, whereas the majority of the ca 1,200 species in the order is found in only three genera: Arthonia, Arthothelium and Opegrapha. Other formerly large genera e.g., Schismatomma, Lecanactis, and Chiodecton, have already been split into smaller units, but the classification of Arthonia and Arthothelium is still unsettled. A phylogenetic analysis is included to elucidate the position of Cryptothecia, Chrysothrix, and additional species of Arthonia and Arthothelium in the order. Selected morphological characters used in the classification and phylogeny of the Arthoniales are reviewed and a key to the better known genera is presented.
10.2307/3241311|An abnormal female receptacle is reported for the first time in Plagiochasma appendiculatum from Mount Abu in Rajasthan, India, and its bearing on phylogeny is discussed.
10.2307/3244027|Campylotrichum acuminatum is synonymous with Lepidopilum polytrichoides. The confusion of its identity resulted from an inaccurate protologue and the mistaken belief that it was collected in Australia rather than in the New World. Brief biographical data are given for Josef Sykora (=Sikora), the Bohemian botanist who described Campylotrichum.
10.2307/3242738|Syrrhopodon mammillosus C. Muell., described from New Caledonia, is reported new to peninsular Malaysia.
10.2307/3242931| Serpotortellaceae Reese & Zander is described as a new family and includes S. chenagonii (Ren. & Card.) Reese & Zander, comb. nov. (basionym: Syrrhopodon chenagonii Ren. & Card.), and S. cyrtophylla (Besch.) Reese & Zander, comb. nov. (basionym: Syrrhopodon cyrtophyllus Besch.), both endemic to Madagascar and Runion. Serpotortella chenagonii is designated as the type species of the genus. Sporophytes are described for the first time for these mosses. 
10.2307/3244408|The relationship between thallus shape and habitat inclination in the umbilicate lichen Lasallia pustulata is investigated. There is a significant relationship between the steepness of the habitat rock surface and the degree of asymmetry around the central holdfast of the thalli. This is interpreted as an effect of gravity, including the gravity-influenced over-under 'tiling' of the lichens on the habitat surface. There was no correlation between thallus size and degree of asymmetry.
10.2307/3242681|Five new lichen products-the depsidones stenosporonic and divaronic acids and the meta-depsides hyperhomosekikaic, submerochlorophaeic, and subpaludosic acids-are reported from species of the Cladonia chlorophaea group and from the genera Neofuscelia, Parmelia, Ramalina and Physcidia. These compounds fill previously vacant positions in four chemically homologous series of depsidones and meta-depsides involving 3- and 5-carbon sidechains. The chemical structures are based upon chromatographic correlations, and those of the depsidones are confirmed by mass spectrometry.
10.2307/3242390| The author has investigated the carotenoids in 4 Hepaticae and 22 Musci. By means of column and thin-layer chromatography, the following carotenoids were found to be present: lycopene, -carotene, -carotene, -carotene, -carotene epoxide, -carotene diepoxide, -cryptoxanthin, lutein, lutein epoxide, zeaxanthin, antheraxanthin, neoxanthin, violaxanthin, aurochrome, auroxanthin, mutatochrome, mutatoxanthin and ketocarotenoid. The carotenoids which occurred most frequently in the moss species investigated were -carotene, -carotene, -cryptoxanthin, -carotene epoxide, lutein and zeaxanthin. The total carotenoid content ranged from 0.989 to 39.115 g/g fresh weight. 
20485774|Here we incorporate molecular sequence data (ITS, IGS, mtLSU, RPB2) to test the hypothesis of strict clonality in the lichen-forming fungus Thamnolia vermicularis. Recombination was rejected by most methods, though, a small number did detect recombination. We intepret these analyses as mostly supporting the hypothesis of strict clonality. We were unable to determine if the recombination detected was the result of rare recombination events in recent time, historic recombination, or false positives by certain methods. In addition, we investigated whether chemotypes in T. vermicularis formed monophyletic groups. Molecular sequence data suggest that the two chemotypes do not form well-supported, monophyletic lineages. Chemotypes were found with identical haplotypes and some populations were composed of more than one haplotype. Our data suggest that there is not a simple dichotomy between chemotypes in T. vermicularis, which may be due to rare or historic recombination, repeated chemotype evolution or incomplete lineage sorting.
10.2307/3240984| New distribution records are given for ten species of Lecidea and Rhizocarpon. Eight species-Lecidea instrata Nyl., L. leucothallina Arn., Rhizocarpon anaperum (Vain.) Vain., R. effiguratum (Anzi) Th. Fr., R. intersitum Arn., R. macrosporum Rs., R. norvegicum Rs., and R. sphaerosporum Rs.-are reported from North America for the first time. 
10.2307/3242833|The agrostologist, Pohl, suggested the use of a wetting agent based on di-octyl sodium sulfosuccinate. It has proven very useful for the study of bryophytes, with certain reservations when applied to living specimens of the Hepaticae.
10.2307/3241531|Four more locations of Tholurna dissimilis are reported from British Columbia and the state of Washington.
10.2307/3244460|A new species, Orthotrichum vittii F. Lara, Garilleti, & Mazimpaka (Orthotrichaceae, Bryopsida) is described. The new taxon, close to Orthotrichum diaphanum Brid. and O. macrocephalum F. Lara, Garilleti, & Mazimpaka, is characterized by leaf apices with short hyaline awns, leaf areolation firm and not bulging, capsules emergent and strongly ribbed, stomata cryptoporous, exostome with eight pairs of teeth that are recurved when dry, endostome with 16 thin segments that are incurved and frequently appendiculate, and prostome occasionally present. It is distributed throughout Spain, especially in the eastern half, and is a xerophytic epiphyte with marked preferences for mountainous-continental Juniperus thurifera forests.
3244822|Lecidea ramulicola (= Lecanora symmicta f. ramulicola,) is raised to species rank within Lecanora. It is anatomically similar to Lecanora symmicta, but unlike that species it has atranorin as major secondary product and usnic acid only as an accessory substance, more frequently branched and anastomosing paraphyses, and shorter conidia. The species is known from northeastern North America and central Europe, where it is often found in pine forests, most frequently on dead pine twigs.
10.2307/3242569|Eight species and one variety of mosses are reported from Newfoundland for the first time: Coscinodon cribrosus (Hedw.) Spruce, Ctenidium molluscum (Hedw.) Mitt., Gyroweisia tenuis (Hedw.) Schimp., Molendoa sendtneriana (B.S.G.) Limpr., Oedipodium griffithianum (Dicks.) Schwaegr., Orthotrichum obtusifolium Brid., O. pallens Bruch ex Brid., Timmia norvegica Zett. var. excurrens Bryhn, and Trichostomum crispulum Bruch ex F. Muell. The discovery of Coscinodon cribrosus, Gyroweisia tenuis, Molendoa sendtneriana, Oedipodium griffithianum, and Timmia norvegica var. excurrens in Newfoundland all represent major extensions of range. New Newfoundland records are also provided for sixteen other species of restricted range there, including Newfoundland maps for Campylopus atrovirens De Not. and Entodon concinnus (De Not.) Paris.
10.2307/3242585|Exogenous vitamin B
25614865|Phylogenetic analyses of the Hypnales usually show the same picture of poorly resolved trees with a large number of polyphyletic taxa and low support for the few reconstructed clades. One odd clade, however, consisting of three genera that are currently treated either within the Leskeaceae (Miyabea) or Neckeraceae (Homaliadelphus and Bissetia), was retrieved in a previously published phylogeny based on chloroplast rbcL. In order to elucidate the reliability of the observed Homaliadelphus - Miyabea - Bissetia -clade (HMB-clade) and to reveal its phylogenetic relationships a molecular study based on a representative set of hypnalean taxa was performed. Sequence data from all three genomes, namely the ITS1 and 2 (nuclear), the trnS-rps4-trnT-trnL-trnF cluster (plastid), the nad5 intron (mitochondrial), were analyzed. Although the phylogenetic reconstruction of the combined data set was not fully resolved regarding the backbone it clearly indicated the polyphyletic nature of various hypnalean families, such as the Leskeaceae, Hypnaceae, Hylocomiaceae, Neckeraceae, Leptodontaceae and Anomodontaceae with respect to the included taxa. In addition the results favor the inclusion of the Leptodontaceae and Thamnobryaceae in the Neckeraceae. The maximally supported HMB-clade consisting of the three genera Homaliadelphus (2-3 species), Miyabea (3 species) and Bissetia (1 species) is resolved sister to a so far unnamed clade comprising Taxiphyllum aomoriense, Glossadelphus ogatae and Leptopterigynandrum. The well-resolved and supported HMB-clade, here formally described as the Miyabeaceae, fam. nov. is additionally supported by morphological characters such as strongly incrassate, porose leaf cells, a relatively weak and diffuse costa and the presence of dwarf males. The latter are absent in the Neckeraceae and the Leskeaceae. It is essentially an East Asian family, with one species occurring in North America.
3244165|One hundred eighty-two taxa of lichens including two lichen parasites are reported from Izembek National Wildlife Refuge on the tip of the Alaska Peninsula. Metasphaeria tartarina is new to North America; Scoliciosporum umbrinum is new to Alaska. Wide-ranging, arctic-alpine, and boreal species dominate the lichen flora; a coastal element is moderately represented, while amphi-Beringian species form a minor element. Epigeic lichen abundance is described along a lowland to alpine mesotopographic gradient selected to represent major landscape variation in the refuge. Of six major community types identified, three had significant lichen components.
10.2307/3241106|Thirty-two species of Hepaticae are reported from the Little Belt Mountains, Montana. All are new to the local flora and most are new to the state.
10.2307/3242796|One hundred and sixty-five species of lichens are reported from Bylot Island and 145 species from northern Baffin Island, together with earlier reports making a total of 337 species from this part of the Arctic. One new combination, Aspicilia composita (Lynge) Thoms. is made. New to Canada are Buellia pulverulenta, Catillaria groenlandica, Lecania arctica, Lecanora microfusca, and Lecanora torrida.
10.2307/3241572|Bryoxiphium norvegicum var. norvegicum was found in the West Fork of Oak Creek Canyon in northern Arizona. This is the first record of the species in western North America (exclusive of Alaska) between Mt. Rainier, Washington and central Mexico.
10.2307/3242646|Harveya vescularioides from northeastern Mexico is described as a new genus and species of the Hookeriaceae having long, slender pseudoparaphyllia, broad, asymmetric leaves, relatively short costae, and lax areolation.
10.2307/3243861|Vagrant lichen taxa are presently recognized in several genera. Xanthoparmelia contains the largest number of vagrant taxa and is the most widely distributed geographically, with vagrant taxa represented in several habitats in North America and other continents. Aspicilia has the second largest number of vagrant taxa worldwide, including A. fruticulosa (Eversm.) Flagey, reported new for North America from Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah, and Wyoming. Habitat supporting vagrant lichens is typically windswept, semi-arid, and sparsely vegetated. In some areas attached, erratic, and vagrant taxa of Rhizoplaca occur sympatrically. Environmentally modified erratic forms of attached taxa of Dermatocarpon, Lecanora, and Umbilicaria occur in habitats occupied by vagrant taxa. Reproduction in vagrant lichens is typically by large unspecialized vegetative fragments. Due to widescale land disturbance, livestock grazing, and the dispersal strategies of vagrant lichens, some taxa are so fragmented in their distribution that they may become extinct.
40732290|We studied the relationships between environmental variables and the physiology of two (semi-) aquatic mosses (Bryum pseudotriquetrum and Fontinalis antipyretica) in an unforested headwater stream over a three year period. Neither environmental or physiological variables showed significant interannual variations. Most environmental variables (water temperature, stratospheric ozone, and photosynthetic, UV-A and UV-B radiation) showed distinct seasonal variations, but only a few physiological ones did. In both species, photoprotection variables (the activity of the xanthophyll cycle and the bulk UV absorbance of the methanol-extractable UVabsorbing compounds, MEUVAC) varied more seasonally than variables related to physiological activity, such as the sclerophylly index and chlorophyll fluorescence parameters (F <sub>v</sub> /F <sub>m</sub> and  <sub>PSII</sub> ). Changes in physiological activity would be attenuated by the buffering capacity of water with respect to the influence of environmental factors, and dynamic variables like F <sub>v</sub> /F <sub>m</sub> and  <sub>PSII</sub> would be little determined by cyclic environmental factors. In B. pseudotriquetrum, both MEUVAC and kaempferol 3,7-O-diglycoside (a potentially UV-protective flavonoid) were positively associated with radiation levels, whereas in F. antipyretica photoprotection mechanisms were not correlated with any environmental variable. In addition, MEUVAC was 3-4 fold higher in B. pseudotriquetrum than in F. antipyretica. Thus, different photoprotection mechanisms, with a different environmental regulation, can be suggested for these two species. DNA damage was not found in any sample, probably because both species displayed efficient DNA repair mechanisms.
10.2307/3242682|This paper focuses on three phylogenetic questions involving the large and diverse moss genus Tortula: (1) a search for characters justifying a monophyletic group within the tribe Pottieae to which the name Tortula can be applied; (2) an evaluation of evidence for the monophyly and proper circumscription of the T. ruralis complex; and (3) an examination of the phylogenetic interrelationships of selected additional species of Tortula. An extensive SEM survey was undertaken, emphasizing taxa relevant to these three questions. Fifty-five populations of 31 species of Tortula, as well as 21 species in 13 other genera, were studied for peristomes and spores; in addition, leaf characters of 20 populations of 18 species of Tortula and other genera were studied. Results of this SEM survey indicated that spore and leaf ornamentation was not in general useful for higher-level groupings. Peristome characters, especially ornamentation, were useful. These and other characters from light microscopic observations were analyzed cladistically. It is concluded that Tortula as currently circumscribed is paraphyletic. However, a smaller monophyletic group (Tortula sensu stricto) can be recognized, of which the T. ruralis complex (including T. caninervis) appears to be a monophyletic subgroup.
10.2307/3242664|The new species Lichinella intermedia, L. flexa and L. robustoides are described for the first time. L. intermedia differs from other species of the genus by, in part, foliose lobes bearing elongate thallinocarps, and thus resembles certain species of the genus Gonohymenia. L. flexa and L. robustoides are only known in sterile condition. L. flexa is characterized byfanshaped lobes and a compact axial strand. In L. robustoides the lobes are diversely branched and include a central strand of loosely interwoven hyphae with interspersed algal cells. In L. flexa and L. robustoides most of the thalli bear galls caused by a lichenicolous pyrenomycete which might be misinterpreted as fruiting structures of the lichen. In L. flexa the galls have a lateral position, in L. robustoides they occur predominantly at the tip of the lobes. New localities are given for Lichinella americana Henssen, L. robusta Henssen and L. stipatula Nyl including first records for some countries.
10.2307/3241024|Grimmia trichophylla Grev. v. indianensis Sayre is considered more closely related to G. pulvinata (Hedw.) Sm. and G. orbicularis Bruch ex Wils. than to G. trichophylla, and it seems sufficiently distinct to be recognized at the specific level. It is redescribed and two recent collections of G. pulvinata are reported from Missouri as geographic evidence of a probable relationship.
41289817|The increasing availability of open access data on species occurrences is leading researchers to generate more hypotheses about patterns of species distributions. However, when all of this information is mapped onto a particular geographical scale, gaps usually appear due to lack of knowledge and sampling spatial bias (the so-called Wattacean shortfall). To overcome these problems as efficiently as possible, field surveys should be designed after distinguishing well-surveyed places from those with incomplete inventories in order to carry out the extra survey effort in those areas not represented environmentally and spatially by the well-surveyed places. This procedure requires (1) gathering, cleaning and standardizing data; (2) selecting environmental variables that are important for the group considered according to field experience and the literature; and (3) making statistical decisions about the number and location of areas that should be surveyed according to the available resources. Here, we summarize most concepts and procedures devoted to the evaluation of biodiversity data, offering some general recommendations on how to use them for optimizing new survey designs. As a practical guide for potential users, we provide an example describing its application to a comprehensive database on bryophyte distribution on Terceira Island (Azores, Portugal). More than 8,000 bryophyte records were gathered, but (i) less than half of the island area has been surveyed at least once and (ii) less than 1% of these have reliable inventories (placed on the few remnants of laurel forests that have been traditionally better surveyed). Nevertheless, surveying just 15 additional localities evenly distributed across the major environmental regions and habitats on Terceira Island seems to represent the existing environmental diversity. We believe that the survey protocol presented here for bryophytes of Terceira Island could be flexibly applied to other taxa or areas.
3244680| Caloplaca gyalectoides S. Kondratyuk & Krnefelt from the Cape Province, South Africa, and Caloplaca chilensis S. Kondratyuk, Krnefelt, Frdn & Arup with an associated parasymbiont Arthonia tetraspora S. Kondratyuk & Krnefelt occurring mainly along the coast in central Chile are described as new. Possible associated taxa are briefly discussed. Distribution maps are provided for all three species. 
10.2307/3243175|A collection of 221 bryophyte taxa from the Tenmile Creek drainage, Idaho County, Idaho, includes 22 species and two varieties that are new reports for the state.
20485771|Bryophytes constitute important components of many ecosystems. However, the methods used to measure their dominance have remained unchanged during the last 25 years. Herein we compare accuracy, efficiency and objectivity among three methods used to estimate bryophyte cover: Braun-Blanquet cover classes, grid percentage and digital image processing. Using these methods, two observers determined bryophyte cover on 30 clay tiles planted with Neckeropsis disticha. Accuracy among methods was estimated by relating the cover values with the dry weight. Efficiency was estimated using the relation between time and data variability. Objectivity was estimated by comparing the variability between observers. The digital method resulted in less time in the field (F = 272, p &lt; 0.001) and lower variation among data (F = 0.55, p = 0.02) than from the other two methods. Our results showed that the digital processing method was more reliable as it minimized observer effect in the cover values while providing higher efficiency in the field. The method is especially useful in monitoring studies that use repeated measurements because it helps to detect small variations in bryophyte cover. This method is particularly useful to improve the analysis in communities with low bryophyte cover, such as tropical epiphylls.
10.2307/3241864|The new species Parmelia brattii Essl. from New Zealand contains a new depside, 4-O-methylolivetoric acid, as the principal secondary product. A second new species P. loxodella Essl., from Australia (including Tasmania) and New Zealand, has a complex chemistry with glomelliferic acid, glomellic acid and a new compound, loxodellic acid, as the principal constant constituents. Loxodellic acid is proven to be a lower homologue of glomelliferic acid. Chemical structures for the new depsides are based upon evidence from the hydrolysis and thin-layer chromatography of microextracts.
10.2307/3244506|Bragginsella gen. n., with only B. anomala sp. n., is known only from plants collected in Arthur's Pass National Park, South Island, New Zealand. Known only from sterile plants, the familial position remains uncertain, although with the aspect of the Jungermanniaceae. It differs from genera of that group in a) transverse or feebly incubous dorsal leaf insertion; b) sporadically discernible, few-celled, bifid underleaves with slime papillae; and c) peculiarly armed leaves, with hyaline, dome-shaped "papillae" produced over intersection points where walls of the cells join. Although tentatively placed in Jungermanniaceae subf. Jungermannioideae, this disposition is based as much on ignorance as conviction.
43188719|The new species Gyalideopsis ellipsoidea and Pyrenula xanthoglobulifera are described from NE Brazil. These species were found in the Caatinga area reserve Chapada do Araripe, in Cear. The Pyrenula is also known from Guadeloupe.
10.2307/3243690|Seventy-two species of lichens are reported for the first time from Utah. Significant range extensions include southwestern occurrences of Anaptychia palmulata (Michx.) Vain. and Letharia vulpina (L.) Hue.
10.2307/3243644| The locomotory apparatus of the midstage spermatid of Riccardia multifida (L.) S. Gray is comprised of the characteristic four-layered multilayered structure (MLS) and two superposed, staggered but only slightly overlapping, basal bodies. The lamellar strip (LS) is spatulate in outline, 2.7 m long and 0.42 m wide, decreasing in width from the right-hand margin. The overlying spline varies from 14-16 microtubules but typically is comprised of 14 at its maximum width. The anterior basal body (ABB), 0.73 m in length and inserted 0.45 m from the anterior margin of the spline, overlaps with the posterior basal body (PBB) which is much longer, at 2.74 m, and located about 1.12 m from the spline's leading edge. The ABB is essentially parallel with the spline microtubules while the PBB diverges slightly past the left-hand margin. A closed aperture is located to the right of the spline midline beneath the ABB. Blepharoplast characteristics of the midstage spermatid of Riccardia are consistent with the "average" blepharoplast for the midstage spermatids of the Metzgeriales. Many features of the Riccardia blepharoplast-for example shape of the LS, lengths and stagger of the basal bodies, and number of microtubules comprising the spline-fit well into the midrange for the order. 
10.2307/3244430|Orthotrichum holmenii Lewinsky-Haapasaari sp. n. from Kazakhstan is described. It belongs to subg. Pulchella (Schimp.) Vitt sect. Pulchella Schimp. and is closely related to O. consimile, O. pulchellum and O. scanicum from which it differs in the presence of strongly papillose endostome segments, branched leaf papillae, sometimes bent dry capsules, and presence of simple or branched gemmae. It is an epiphyte growing intermixed with other Orthotrichum species. Orthotrichum hallii is reported for the second time from Asia from two localities in Kazakhstan.
10.2307/3243628|A bioassay was developed to determine the effects of six lichen extracts on food consumption and growth of gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar) larvae. The larvae were allowed to feed on leaves of Quercus rubra which had been painted with either acetone or water extracts of Cladina subtenuis, Flavoparmelia caperata, Hypogymnia physodes, Parmelia sulcata, Parmotrema hypotropum, or Usnea strigosa. Acetone extracts containing depsides, depsidones, and usnic acid did not affect food consumption or larval growth. All water extracts except Flavoparmelia caperata decreased leaf consumption and growth by 30-80%. Although water extracts do not completely deter feeding, they could play an important ecological role in preventing lichenivory by gypsy moths.
10.2307/3243867|The validity of the many genera segregated from Parmelia s.l. in recent years is argued on the basis of the following characters: the nature of the upper cortical structure (pored epicorticate, nonpored epicorticate, pseudocyphellate); type of fungal cell wall polysaccharides (isolichenan, lichenan); ascocarp, pycnidial, spore, and pycnoconidial characters; chemistry of the upper cortex; and various thalline characters. The high degree of correlation between these and other secondary characters (medullary chemistry, ecology, geographic distribution) leads to a consistent taxonomy. A synoptic key to the genera of the Parmeliaceae is provided and key characters are listed for each of the 64 genera considered.
10.2307/3242349| Eighteen families, 25 genera, 31 species, 4 subspecies and 20 varieties are reported from the mountains and foothills of northeastern Washington. Anastrophyllum helleranum (Nees) Schust., Cephaloziella rubella (Nees) Warnst. var. rubella, Lophocolea minor Nees, Lophozia ascendens (Warnst.) Schust., L. collaris (Nees) Dum., L. ventricosa (Dicks.) Dum. var. longiflora (Nees) Macoun, var. silvicola (Buch) Jones, L. wenzelii (Nees) Steph. var. wenzelii, Scapania cuspiduligera (Nees) K.Mll. var. cuspiduligera, S. mucronata Buch subsp. mucronata and Tritomaria exsectiformis (Breidl.) Loeske subsp. exsectiformis are reported as new to the state of Washington. 
10.2307/3244018|Changes to the "Fifth Checklist of the Lichen-Forming, Lichenicolous and Allied Fungi of the Continental United States and Canada" based on recent literature reports are presented. New taxa and synonyms are documented, and corrections in author citations and spellings are also included.
20110880|A new species, Heterodermia neglecta, is described to accommodate material from eastern North America and eastern Asia previously referred to Heterodermia propagulifera.
10.2307/3243840|Two species of Lophocolea from Tasmania are transferred to Leptoscyphus, i.e., L. subemarginatus (Hook. f. & Tayl.) Engel comb. nov. and L. longistipulus (Steph.) Engel comb. nov. Clasmatocolea inflexispina (Hook. f. & Tayl.) Engel comb. nov. (= Jungermannia inflexispina Hook. f. & Tayl., 1845) must replace C. amplectens (Mitt.) Engel (= Lophocolea amplectens Mitt., 1859).
10.2307/3240676|A small aberrant gametophyte of Polytrichum commune Hedw., grown on nutrient medium in vitro, developed propagative plants regularly on its leaves without wounding or other treatment. This behavior is in contrast to that of the normal gametophyte in the same species which exhibits apical dominance over regeneration activity on its intact leaves.
10.2307/3242001|Trace element concentrations in the feather moss Pleurozium schreberi (Brid.) Mitt. and in underlying soil near a kraft paper mill in northern Ontario show elevated levels of Cu, Fe, Hg, Mn, Ni and Zn and about expected levels of Cd and Pb.
10.2307/3240954|Many of the place names used by Thomas Drummond (d. 1835) in his narratives and exsiccati series are obscure, misleading, or no longer current. His route of exploration through western Canada is traced. The mosses that he reported are listed with the nomenclature and locality names brought up-to-date.
10.2307/3241393| The female plants of Splachnobryum flaccidum (Hook.) C. Mll. are anacrogynous. The archegonia are home individually and laterally along the stem. This feature has been observed in specimens from different localities, and also in three other species; namely, S. bernoullii C. Mll., S. obtusum (Brid.) C. Mll, and S. wrightii C. Mll. 
10.2307/3242932| Discovered at Blanket Creek Provincial Park south of Revelstoke (British Columbia, Canada), Odontoschisma macounii (Aust.) Underw. and Scapania spitzbergensis (Lindb.) K. Mll. are reported from their southwesternmost localities in North America, about 1,000 km southward from the recently reported occurrences in British Columbia. 
10.2307/3240694|Heppia trinitatis Vain. from Trinidad is reinterpreted as belonging to the Peltigeraceae and a member of the previously monotypic genus Hydrotheria. The appropriate new combination is made.
20485783|Four new taxa of the lichenized, foliicolous ascomycete genus Chroodiscus are described from Southeast Asia: Chroodiscus defectus Papong & Lcking, Ch. homchantarae Papong & Lcking, Ch. khaolungensis Papong & Lcking and Ch. khaosokensis Papong & Lcking. Chroodiscus argillaceus (Mll. Arg.) Lcking & Papong (=Chroodiscus parvisporus Kalb & Lcking) is introduced as new combination. The genus as currently circumscribed now includes 14 taxa, which are keyed out here. A short discussion on the putative evolution and taxonomic treatment of species pairs in this genus is included.
10.2307/3242250|The known Oregon flora of Hepaticae consists of 92 species, 13 subspecies, 23 varieties and one form in 47 genera and 30 families. Barbilophozia lycopodioides (Wallr.) Loeske, Fossombronia foveolata Lindb., Lophocolea minor Nees, Lophozia alpestris (Schleich. ex Web.) Evans, L. ascendens (Warnst.) Schust., L. collaris (Nees) Dum., L. excisa (Dicks.) Dum. var. excisa, Ptilidium pulcherrimum (G.Web.) Hampe and Radula obtusiloba Steph. subsp. polyclada (Evans) Hatt. are reported as new to the state. With more intensive field work throughout the entire state the number of taxa can be expected to increase greatly.
3244285| Two sorediate counterparts of Fuscopannaria leucosticta (Tuck.) P. M. Jrg. are described: F. coerulescens from Nepal and New Guinea and F. sorediata from eastern North America and Japan. Pannaria cyanolepra (Tuck.) P. M. Jrg. comb. nov., a sorediate species in the F. praetermissa group restricted to California, is transferred to Fuscopannaria, and a key to all known sorediate species of this genus is given. 
10.2307/3240740|The catalog lists the North American mosses present in the continental United States and Canada, the floras of Mexico and Greenland not being considered. In all, 1,159 species and 299 varieties in 260 genera are recognized. The catalog includes both systematic and alphabetic arrangements of the taxa.
3244745|Three species are placed in the lichen genus Rimularia Nyl.: R. michoacanensis (B. de Lesd.) comb. nov., R. paradoxa Timdal & W. A. Weber sp. nov., and R. subconcava (H. Magn.) comb. nov. The species differ from the previously recognized species of the genus in having squamulose thalli and filiform pycnoconidia. Rimularia michoacanensis is a terricolous species from central Mexico, R. paradoxa a saxicolous species from Colorado, U.S.A., and R. subconcava a terricolous species from central Asia (China and Kirgiziya).
10.2307/3243647|Living Umbilicaria cylindrica (L.) Del. in the vicinity of Qaanaaq, NW Greenland is of special interest because it is found near sites where subfossils from the same population have recently emerged from beneath glacial ice. Electrophoretically-produced enzyme banding patterns of modern thalli were examined to determine whether isozymes indicated genetic variation within the population. Five enzymes were detected in each of six collection sites and the level of variability based on these was expressed as number of patterns per stand, Complement of the Simpson Index, and the Shannon Diversity Index. As is the case with other lichens examined previously, the U. cylindrica population exhibited appreciable enzyme polymorphism and, thus, potential for evolutionary change. Most enzymes were not detectable in glaciated fossil material, but two bands of esterase showed catalytic activity after approximately 1,350 yr. under ice.
10.2307/3242007|Injury to large Parmelia lichens was noted following the severe winter of 1976-1977. Low temperatures and desiccation are thought to have been responsible. Injury was related to morphology rather than range of the lichen species involved.
10.2307/3243404|New records from a bryophyte survey of the British Columbia shrub-steppe include four mosses new to North America: Crossidium rosei Williams, Phascum vlassovii Lazar., Pottia wilsonii (Hook.) B.S.G., and Pterygoneurum kozlovii Lazar. In addition, two genera-Trichostomopsis and Crossidium-seven species, and two varieties are reported new to Canada, and seven species are new to British Columbia. Two species are reported new from Washington State and one variety from Washington and Oregon.
10.2307/3244438|The systematic position of the lichen family Schaereriaceae, formerly included in the Pezizales or incertae sedis, is evaluated. Since the genus shares a number of characters with the Agyriaceae, including the hemiangiocarpous ascoma development, zeorine apothecia, and similar chemistry, it is best placed in the Agyriineae. The ascus of Schaereria is interpreted as a reduction of the Trapelia-type. Since some differences occur between Schaereria and the Agyriaceae, namely the different paraphyses, ascus structure, and pycnidia, it is proposed to maintain the family Schaereriaceae within the Agyriineae.
3244668|North American material of the sorediate Punctelia species has been examined. The presence of four species, Punctelia borreri, P. missouriensis, P. perreticulata, and P. stictica can be confirmed. Specimens named Punctelia subrudecta generally belong to P. perreticulata. Neither of the species most common in Europe, P. subrudecta and P. ulophylla, could be confirmed as occurring in North America.
10.2307/3241524|Ramalina montagnei and R. denticulata are restricted in distribution on St. Thomas to evergreen forests at the highest elevations on two hills. A successional relationship apparently occurs between the two species, with R. montagnei colonizing the smallest branches and being replaced on larger branches by R. denticulata. Four chemical strains of R. montagnei occur on St. Thomas, one of which is previously unreported for the species. There is no indication that habitat selection is occurring among these four chemical strains in the locality studied.
3244919|Plants of Pseudoscleropodium purum, a moss native to central and western Europe, are well established in western, central, and eastern New York State, mainly in lawns of cemeteries, especially those with moist clayey soil, shade provided by conifers (Picea abies, Thuja occidentalis) in small groves, and periodic mowing. Male and female plants occur in Rensselaer County, New York cemeteries, but not in the same ones. Sporophytes have not been found, and reproduction appears to occur vegetatively as plants are cut and spread during lawn maintenance. If spore production is established within the naturalized range of this moss in the northeastern United States, the species may become more widespread, and possibly invasive. While the date and method of introduction into the State of New York are unknown, a 19th century specimen of P. purum from the West Coast of North America indicates that the moss may have reached that region as packing material in the late-1800's.
10.2307/3241205|A coastal zone of luxuriant fog-induced lichen growth is present in northwestern Baja California. The combined effects of frequent conditions of high atmospheric humidity and strong sea breezes restricting vascular plant vegetation allow a remarkable lichen community to develop. The vegetation on volcanic cinder cones in the vicinity of Bahia de San Quintin is dominated by species of Desmazieria. Two new species of this genus, D. josecuervoi and D. pulchribarbara are described.
10.2307/3241585|The last published list of all hepatics known from Alaska included 113 species and varieties. The present enumeration, compiled from published records, lists 208 taxa in 66 genera and 35 families.
10.2307/3241775| Eleven species of lichen-forming fungi are reported for North America for the first time. One of these, Micarea tuberculata (Somm.), is a new combination. The others are Buellia jugorum (Arn.) Arn., Caloplaca bryochrysion Poelt, C. herbidella (Nyl. ex Arn.) H. Magn., Dermatocarpon waltheri (Krb.) Blomb. & Forss., Gyalecta erythrozona Lett., Lecanora umbrosa Degel., Lecidea alpestris (Somm.) Somm., Lecidella bullata Krb., L. incongruella (Vain.) H. Hertel & Leuckert, and Rhizocarpon permodestum Arn. 
3244570|Lophozia kutscheri Grolle is described as a new species of the Jungermanniales in Bitterfeld amber (Oligocene or Eocene) from central Germany. The sterile holotype is clearly visible from both the dorsal and ventral side and has gemmae on the tips of the leaf lobes. The species is compared to the extant L. hatcheri (A. Evans) Steph. This is the first fossil record of Lophozia and the Lophoziaceae.
10.2307/3243913|Rimelia bonplandii Mata is described as new from Sucre State, Venezuela. This is the second species of Rimelia known to contain lichexanthone in the medulla.
10.2307/3240648|Porella pinnata L. occurs in North America from Minnesota, Iowa, and Texas to the Atlantic coast. To the north of the fortieth parallel it is mostly aquatic and sterile; to the south it is generally fertile, rarely or never submerged, and often grows on trees, shrubs, and stone walls.
3244890|Two new species are described: Erioderma glabrum (from the Antillean region and Ecuador) and Parmeliella conopleoides(from Brazil, Venezuela, and Costa Rica). Both species are unusual in their respective genera. Erioderma glabrum is the only glabrous species in the genus Erioderma, with no obvious close relations, while P. conopleoides is a species of the Parmeliella pannosa group and the first species in this genus known to have gymnidia.
10.2307/3241968| Two new combinations, F. abruptus (Broth.) Broth, ex Pursell and F. termitarum (Herz.) Pursell are made. Both species are described and illustrated. The presence of these two species in Brazil is established, along with that of F. brittonii Grout and F. milobakeri L.F. Koch in Mxico, F. rigidulus Hook. f. & Wils. in Brazil and Ecuador and F. steerei Grout in Puerto Rico. Fissidens brittonii is compared with F. macroblastus R.S.Williams. Fissidens ensifolius Broth., F. papulans Besch. and F. svihlae Bartr. are considered to be synonymous with F. angustifolius Sull., and F. kegelianus C. Mll, is reduced to the synonymy of F. zollingeri Mont. 
41289791|A new combination, Pseudocrossidium adustum, is proposed for Desmatodon adustus, an Australian taxon treated in the literature as conspecific with P. hornschuchianum. The range of this species is extended to South Africa. The species is described, lectotypified, illustrated and its distribution is mapped. Diagnostic characters and distinction from P. chilense and P. hornschuchianum are given. A key to Pseudocrossidium for Australia and South Africa is provided.
10.2307/3243910| In 1885 Edvard August Vainio travelled to Brazil primarily to collect lichens, but he also collected bryophytes. The mosses were mostly identified by Brotherus and C. Mller, and the hepatics by Stephani. These authors described several new species based on Vainio's collections. The set kept at the Vainio herbarium at Turku, Finland (TUR) has recently been rediscovered. All the bryophytes are listed, with their collection localities and TUR accession numbers. 
10.2307/3244234|Mason E. Hale, Jr. (1928-1990) distributed a preliminary "List of Epithets in the Parmelioid Genera" to many of his lichenological colleagues on 10 June 1989. The original list, an alphabetic arrangment of ephitets published in Parmelia s. lat. with their recommended placement in the over 30 segregrate parmelioid genera, was a valuable reference in locating species among the different schemes of classification in use in publications and in herbaria. Here we present an edited and updated version of that list. We have increased the number of entries of epithet combinations from 2,000 in the original list to over 4,000. Of these combinations, approximately 1,500 are accepted at the species rank. The epithets can be accessed through three formats: 1) as a printed list of epithets that are arranged alphabetically, with their dispersions among the segregate genera and Parmelia s. str.; 2) as a printed list of accepted names (in the sense of Hale) with their basionyms and synonyms that are arranged by genus and species; and 3) as a searchable electronic database via http://www.nmnh.si.edu/departments/botany.html.
10.2307/3241964|Maturity indices of Atrichum angustatum (Brid.) B.S.G., Diphyscium foliosum (Hedw.) Mohr, Trichocolea tomentella (Ehrh.) Dum., Nowellia curvifolia (Dicks.) Mitt. and Lophocolea heterophylla (Schrad.) Dum. populations in southern Illinois are discussed. Indices are based on biweekly observations made over a period of a year and are correlated with vapor pressure deficit, temperature, light quality and quantity and daylength. Depending upon the species, these microenvironmental factors variously affect the vegetative growth, gametangial formation, fertilization and subsequent growth of the sporophytes. Moisture conditions seem most critical to vegetative growth and survival, and photoperiodism seems to be the dominant factor in gametangia formation. Lophocolea is apparently a day neutral plant in reference to gametangia formation while Diphyscium, Atrichum and Trichocolea are long day plants. Gametangia in Nowellia are also formed under long day conditions but their formation, once initiated, is continuous until dessication of the population.
10.2307/3242906|Pseudaloina, a moss genus new to science, is characterized by erect-spreading leaves, partly involute blades, thin-walled filaments restricted to the costa, non-sheathing perichaetial leaves and stem with central strand. It is morphologically intermediate between Aloina and Aloinella. The type species is P. woodii sp. nov. from Yemen.
10.2307/3242960|Splachnum sphaericum occurs in Isle Royale National Park, Isle Royale, Michigan, nearly 990 km south of the nearest previously reported collection from Gillam, Manitoba. In the continental United States, S. sphaericum is otherwise known only from Washington and Wyoming. The disjunct occurrence of this entomophilous moss on an island currently 24 km from the Canadian mainland suggests that relatively long-distance dispersal of spores by insects is possible.
10.2307/3241419|Two main bands of acid phosphatase activity are demonstrated. It is suggested that one of these enzymes could be involved in lysosomal processes.
20485815|Geocalyx lancistipulus (Steph.) S. Hatt. has recently been discovered from Western Himalayas (Uttarakhand), and is an addition to Indian bryoflora. The species is mainly characterized by the presence of a marsupium and its gemmiparous shoots. The discovery of the taxon from India extends its range of distribution within Asia (Japan, China, Nepal and India). With the present report, Geocalyx is now represented by two species in India, i.e., Geocalyx graveolens and Geocalyx lancistipulus.
3244743|According to phylogenetic analyses of nrDNA ITS1 and ITS2 sequences (including the 5.8S unit) the Neotropical Plagiochila moritziana, P. rutilans var. rutilans, P. rutilans var. standleyi, P. trichostoma (= P. permista, syn. nov.) and P. subtrinitensis form a monophyletic lineage and are placed in P. sect. Rutilantes; all five taxa lack a ca 20 base pair sequence that is present in all the taxa of the other Plagiochila sections investigated. The Central American P. subtrinitensis is treated as a synonym of the Hawaiian endemic P. deflexa. Plagiochila moritziana is excluded from sect. Fuscoluteae and reduced to a variety of P. rutilans; P. sect. Permistae is treated as a synonym of P. sect. Rutilantes. The sporophytes of P. trichostoma and P. deflexa are described for the first time. Fresh material of P. rutilans var. moritziana exhibits a distinct odor of peppermint caused by the presence of several menthane monoterpenoids, principally pulegone. The Central American P. rutilans var. standleyi is reported from Ecuador, new to South America. Lectotypes are designated for P. rutilans var. moritziana, P. subtrinitensis, and P. trichostoma.
10.2307/3242489| Astomiopsis pacifica sp. nov. is described from Ms a Tierra, one of the Juan Fernndez Islands. It is distinguished by blunt leaves with a subpercurrent costa and emergent capsules. The ecology is postulated to be quite different from that of the other two South American species. 
10.2307/3242053|Polytrichastrum tenellum (C.M.) comb. nov. replaces P. alpiniforme (Card.) G.Sm.; Pogonatum comosum (C.M.) Mitt. is an older name for Pogonatum bescherellei Hampe ex Besch. Both have close relatives in the Himalayas. Polytrichastrum tenellum is reported from Ecuador and Peru.
10.2307/3240840|Pseudoparaphyllia are reported in Porotrichum bigelovii (Sull.) Kindb. and Acanthocladium tanytrichum (Mont.) Broth. They have a possible taxonomic significance.
10.2307/3242343| Leachates from Lobaria oregana (Tuck.) Mll. Arg. were produced in the laboratory by misting thalli with rainwater. The leachate was separated into four fractions: a non-dialysable residue (10-15% of the total) containing protein, polysaccharide and probable polyphenolic materials; a dialysable acid-insoluble fraction thought to be tannin; an acid-insoluble, acetone-insoluble inorganic fraction composed largely of sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium cations; and an organic fraction soluble in both aqueous acid and acetone consisting mainly of ribitol. Lobaria is presumed to constitute a major pool for polyols found in throughfall from the coniferous stands under study; as such, this lichen may be an important energy source for heterotrophic canopy microorganisms which subsist on leachates. 
40732273|Herpothallon rubroechinatum is described from the U.S.A. (Florida), Costa Rica and Peru. The new species is characterised by scattered red anthraquinone crystals being attached to hyphae projecting from the thallus, the globose to cylindrical pseudoisidia, a closely adnate thallus, and psoromic acid as the main lichen compound; pycnidia are common at the tips of the pseudoisidia. The medulla of the new species shows a patchily distributed amyloid reaction. Contrary to previous reports, the amyloidity of the medulla was observed in all Herpothallon species re-investigated during this study. H. rubroechinatum is compared to the two other red pigmented species that contain psoromic acid, H. australasicum that lacks pigment crystals on the pseudoisidia, and H. globosum that has a loosely attached thallus and a well developed red hypothallus.
3244871|Climacium dendroides (Hedw.) F. Weber & D. Mohr is reported new to Mexico and in the first known locality in the tropics, at the elevation of 3,000 m, on the ancient shield volcano of Cofre de Perote. Variation in branching of the costa is assessed in this plant and in material of C. dendroides worldwide. Additional taxa of interest from this locality on Cofre de Perote include Aulacomnium palustre and Polytrichum commune (both new to the state of Veracruz).
20485817|The new lichenized species Sphaerophorus venerabilis (Sphaerophoraceae, Lecanorales, Ascomycota) is described and the long confusion with S. tuckermanii clarified. The names S. tuckermanii and S. globiferus var. gracilis Mll. Arg. are lectotypified, and a key to the species of Sphaerophorus in western North America is presented.
10.2307/3242526|Eleven additional taxa are reported as new to the moss flora of Nebraska. New county records of several infrequently collected species are also given.
10.2307/3241521|Gamma radiation from a
3244943|Tortula euryphylla R. H. Zander is an illegitimate superfluous replacement of Desmatodon latifolius (Hedw.) Brid. (= Dicranum latifolium Hedw.) under the generic name Tortula Hedw. There are eleven earlier specific epithets that refer to species considered conspecific with D. latifolius, including Trichostomum hoppeanum Schultz, Desmatodon guentheri Sendtn., and Didymodon theobaldii Pfeff. and examination of the relevant types confirms their identity with this species. Accordingly, the specific epithet of Trichostomum hoppeanum Schultz of 1828, the earliest of these names, should be used as the correct name for Desmatodon latifolius upon its transfer to Tortula and this species should be named Tortula hoppeana (Schultz) Ochyra, comb. nov. Trichostomum hoppeanum is lectotypified with the specimen from the Hoppe herbarium at GZU and a list of the heterotypic synonyms of Tortula hoppeana at the species rank is given. The first record of T. hoppeana from Antarctica is cited and, accordingly, this species is established as a bipolar disjunct taxon.
10.2307/3241810|The critical point drying technique is used in specimen preparation for scanning electron microscopy. Fresh material treated by this technique does not collapse upon desiccation; dried herbarium material can be restored by rehydrating. This technique produces a more life-like appearance of otherwise distorted tissue, e.g., dried leaf tissue of bryophytes. The technique is simple and adds little time to tissue preparation.
41289785|Epiphyllous bryophytes are poorly documented for temperate eastern North America. Ten liverwort taxa and one moss species are reported as epiphylls on Rhododendron maximum from the Appalachian Plateau (Fentress County, Tennessee, and Menifee County, Kentucky). The Kentucky localities represent the northernmost documented sites for bryophyte epiphylls in eastern North America. Three North American liverwort endemics, Lejeunea ruthii, Leucolejeunea clypeata, and Radula obconica, and the moss, Platygyrium repens, are newly reported as epiphylls. Colony size ranged from < 0.1 mm to 20 mm in diameter. Host plant leaf coverage of epiphylls was as high as 15%. A quantitative study at one locality showed 0% of one-year-old host leaves supported bryoepiphylls with 8.9% of two and 13.3% of three-year-old leaves supporting epiphylls. The frequency and northern limits of bryoepiphylly in eastern North America are likely well underestimated.
10.2307/3243719|Twenty-three species of mosses are listed for Grand Bahama Island. Fourteen species are new reports for the island, and seven species are new to the Bahamas. Weissia flavescens (E. G. Britt. in N. L. Britt. & Millsp.) Reese is a new combination.
10.2307/3240521|Thirty-two species and varieties of bryophytes are reported from an interior region of the Northwest Territories where the bryology is little known.
43188825|Harvesting of fog water by epiphytes is biomechanically analogous to filter-feeding by aquatic invertebrates. Increased branchiness, as measured by fractal dimensionality, should reflect greater fogharvesting ability. We documented changes in epiphytic macrolichens across an altitudinal gradient in fog availability in a coastal shrubland in northern Chile. Fruticose and foliose genera appear to become more abundant with increased fog availability. Fractal dimension of fruticose and foliose lichens increased significantly with inferred fog availability. The adaptive morphology of lichens is under-studied, and insights from theoretical morphology of other organisms yield fruitful hypotheses for further studies.
10.2307/3244549|Field trips near Vancouver and on Vancouver Island, British Columbia on the occasion of the Fifth International Mycological Congress in August 1994, yielded several lichens new to North America: Caloplaca gloriae, Fuscidea lightfootii, Japewia carrollii, Pyrenula acutispora, and Trapeliopsis aeneofusca. New reports for Canada are Byssoloma leucoblepharum, B. subdiscordans, Pyrenula microtheca, Tomasellia americana, and Trapelia obtegens. Additionally, 15 species are new to British Columbia.
10.2307/3243325|The presence of 16 carotenoids was determined in 17 species of lichens from in and near Yellowstone National Park in Montana and Wyoming: antheraxanthin, astaxanthin, auroxanthin, capsochrome, -carotene, -carotene, -cryptoxanthin, diatoxanthin, -doradexanthin, 3'-epilutein, lutein, lutein epoxide, mutatoxanthin, neoxanthin, violaxanthin, and zeaxanthin. Lutein is the major carotenoid in 12 of the 17 species, ranging from 23.5 to 47.0% of carotenoids present. The total carotenoid content of the specimens ranged from 15.65 g g
10.2307/3242755| Ultrastructural observations of the spermatids of Thuidium delicatulum reveal a blepharoplast comprising a multilayered structure of the typical four-layered type and two superposed, overlapping basal bodies. The longitudinally elongated lamellar strip is approximately rhomboidal, 2.6 m long and 0.5 m wide. Most commonly, the spline comprises 14 microtubules at its widest region. These are separated into two sets (10 at left and four at right) by a 3 m long aperture of the open type. The aperture is three microtubule-diameters wide along its midregion, narrowing to only one at its anterior end. The anterior basal body is 2.1 m long and lies directly above and parallel to the spline aperture. The posterior basal body is 7.0 m long and diverges posteriorly in association with the left marginal microtubule of the spline. The stellate patterns, each measuring 46 nm in length, are the shortest reported for any bryophyte. Although differing substantially in lamellar strip morphology and overall dimensions, the blepharoplast of Thuidium shares more features with that of Funaria than with those of Archidium, Polytrichum or Sphagnum. 
10.2307/3243358|Calymperes pallidum and Schoenobryum concavifolium collected in southern Florida, and Isopterygium tenerifolium collected in Mississippi, are newly reported for the United States.
10.2307/3241097| Chromosome counts are reported for 31 species of Washington mosses, representing 23 genera and 15 families. The chromosome numbers for Brachythecium frigidum (C. Mll.) Besch. (n = 6), B. leibergii Grout (n = 10), and Scleropodium obtusifolium (Hook.) Kindb. in Mac. & Kindb. (n = 11) are reported for the first time. 
10.2307/3242865|Sixteen families, 28 genera, 41 species, 6 subspecies and 28 varieties of Hepaticae are reported from the Wells Gray Provincial Park, with one family and 2 species added from the immediate vicinity, in British Columbia, Canada. Significant range extensions are recorded for Gyrothyra underwoodiana M. A. Howe and Plagiochila satoi Hatt.
10.2307/3241653|Two species of Fontinalis were tested for their resistance to isolation from stream water in the field and were capable of withstanding one year of field drying with survival effected primarily by their stems.
10.2307/3242224| Baeomyces frenchianus Muell.-Arg., an endemic lichen of southern Australia, is the first member of the genus found to contain thamnolic acid. It lacks baeomycesic acid and its spores are simple or two-celled, fusiform and 12-15 x 3-5 m. 
10.2307/3244305|Through an examination of flavonoid composition, Bartramia rosea Herzog is considered to be a synonym of Anacolia laevisphaera (Tayl.) Flows. Based on the presence of macrocyclic biflavonoids, Bartramia ruwenzoriensis Broth. is transferred from section Ithyphyllae to section Bartramia.
3244339|The bryophyte communities on glacial erratic boulders in the Adirondack Mountains of New York are used as an experimental system to test the predictions of island biogeographic theory. Moss species composition, abundance, richness, and diversity were determined for 39 boulders. Bryophyte species richness on these insular habitats ranges from 3 to 14. Competitive dominance of the component moss species was determined. Boulders were characterized as to size, degree of isolation, and microhabitat heterogeneity. Patterns of disturbance and gap formation in the moss cover, and patterns of recolonization were quantified. The distribution of bryophyte species among individual boulders does not conform to the predictions of island biogeographic theory. Neither the size of the boulder nor its degree of isolation are significantly related to species richness. Richness was also found to be independent of the abundance of the competitive dominants. Overall measures of microhabitat heterogeneity were not correlated with species richness, although a weak relationship with microtopographic diversity was detected. We suggest that the high frequency of gap formation on these boulders maintains the community in a non-equilibrium state. The observed patterns of species richness may be the result of population level processes that govern dispersal and establishment among boulders and among gaps on the boulder surface.
3244567|The lichen communities of nine mixed-hardwood sites in the southeastern Missouri Ozarks were characterized from sampling of the ground layer, tree-bases, midboles, and canopy branches. Of the 181 lichen taxa documented, the majority were crustose (55%) or foliose (32%) lichens. Only a quarter (26%) of all species occurred across all four microhabitats, with the majority of dominant taxa demonstrating apparent preferences for a single (38%) or multiple (27%) microhabitat, a given host tree species (17%), or a particular ground substrate (12%). High diversity of ground substrates and a large amount of presumed litterfall in the ground layer were of particular note. Relative species composition and abundance of lichen communities differed in stands with overstories dominated by red oak species as opposed to white oak species, but showed only suggestive variation with aspect class, geology, bedrock, landform, and soil type. Lichen diversity measures were also weakly associated with the presence of individual white or red oak species in the overstory, but no clear patterns appeared with respect to white or red oak subgroups. Stratification by microhabitat and host species would be necessary in future experimental studies in this region.
10.2307/3243374| The moss Barbula agraria Hedw., a discordant element in the genus Barbula, is recognized as distinct at the generic level by upgrading the monotypic Barbula sect. Hyophiladelphus C. Mll. Cladistic analysis supports a removal to the subfamily Pottioideae wherein Hyophiladelphus is related to one of two circum-Tethyan groups of genera. This study details the several necessary methodological steps for reclassifying this problematic species. 
3244873|Codriophorus corrugatus Bednarek-Ochyra is described and illustrated as a species new to science. It is closely related to C. anomodontoides (Cardot) Bednarek-Ochyra & Ochyra and C. fascicularis (Hedw.) Bednarek-Ochyra & Ochyra from which it differs in its long subulate, often serpentine leaf acumen which is distinctly corrugate or ruffled in the upper part and markedly cristate or papillose-crenulate at the apex; much longer peristome teeth; and its costa that extends to about mid-leaf and is bistratose in transverse section and flat on the ventral surface. Codriophorus corrugatus is an east-Asian northwestern North American, disjunct, boreal-montane species known from southern Alaska in North America; Yakutia in Arctic Russia; Kamchatka in the Russian Far East; Sichuan, Quinghai, and Shaanxi provinces in China; and Hokkaido in Japan.
10.2307/3241251|Two new species of lichens, Ramalina moranii and R. wigginsii, are described from Baja California, Mexico.
10.2307/3242440|A survey was made of bryophytes associated with trails near Mountain Lake, Virginia, totaling 35 species, all common in the adjacent forest. The species having highest importance values on the trails were, in order of decreasing importance values: Hypnum imponens, Dicranella heteromalla, thuidium delicatulum, Atrichum angustatum, Polytrichum ohioense, Leucobryum glaucum, and Callicladium haldanianum. To assess trampling resistance in bryophytes, experimental plots of Polytrichum commune, Ditrichum pallidum, and Sphagnum recurvum were subjected to known levels of trampling by humans. Sphagnum recurvum was the most vulnerable species, fragmenting after 130 passages. After 4200 passages Polytrichum commune showed considerable internal damage to portions of the stem and fragmentation of its leaves while Ditrichum pallidum showed little damage-the small shoots evidently cushioned by each other and by burial in the soil. After 19 days, regeneration of new shoots from the rhizome-like stems of Polytrichum commune was readily apparent in the field, and microscopic examination showed the production of secondary protonemata and shootbuds from leaf fragments in the muck. Secondary protonemata and shootbuds were produced from stems and leaves of intact plants and of shoot fragments of Ditrichum pallidum. Trample-resistant structural features and high regenerative abilities apparently contribute to the importance of bryophytes on trails as potential inhibitors of soil erosion.
10.2307/3242820|The function of the sporophyte is to produce-via meiosis-spores, and to disperse these sexually reproduced diaspores as efficiently as possible; thus, selection pressures that serve to maintain and modify this function are critical in understanding the evolution of the sporophyte generation. These pressures are significantly different in hygrophytic, mesophytic, and xerophytic habitats, and each of these habitats must be examined separately to ascertain the selection gradients and the structural modifications of plants living in them. Correlations between particular structural features and specialized habitats can be observed, and inferences of function and adaption can be drawn from these data. Reduction in many sporophyte characteristics can be correlated with xerophytic habitats. In particular; seta length is often shorter, capsules broader and erect, and the peristome reduced or absent. Peristome reduction can take place by at least two processes-(1) fusion of parts and (2) reduction of parts. Xerophytic habitats are colonized by mosses that are either tolerant of desiccation or by those that can avoid desiccation periods. The latter have a shortened life cycle and many adaptations different than those that are more poikilohydric. Although the prevalent trend in moss sporophytic evolution is one of reduction, amplification of the sporophyte can be found in mesophytix taxa and, in particular, in the entomophilous members of the Splachnaceae. An understanding of sporophyte modifications in relation to habitat preferences will greatly clarify ideas of evolutionary parallelisms and adaptive specialization.
10.2307/3242904| The presence of haemolysins (HLY) and haemagglutinins (HGN) in extracts of 36 species of lichens from 19 genera and 8 families was investigated with 20 types of erythrocyte. HLY and HGN were detected in 29 species. Over 60% of the extracts reacted with rabbit and chicken erythrocytes and least reactivities were obtained with rat red blood cells (<6%). No selective lichen specificity was found for any of the erythrocytes used except that mouse red blood cells only gave HLY and HGN with Usnea fragilescens and Xanthoria parietina, and rat erythrocytes were only reactive against U. fragilescens. Of the three morphological forms, U. fragilescens, Parmelia caperata and Lepraria incana exhibited haemagglutination and haemolysis to over 10 and 13 types of erythrocyte respectively. Highest HLY activities were obtained at an incubation temperature of 4C and highest HGN values at 37C. 
10.2307/3243906|A new Orthotrichum is described from the Mediterranean zone of the Iberian Peninsula. The new species is included in section Diaphana Vent. in Husn. subgenus Pulchella (Schimp.) Vitt. It is characterized by lingulate, carinate leaves with rounded apices, immersed capsules with stomates almost completely covered by protruding subsidiary cells, and by characteristic ornamentation of the peristome. Drawings and scanning electron micrographs of several gametophytic and sporophytic characters are provided. The ecology and distribution, as well as differences from and relationships with similar Orthotrichum species, are discussed.
10.2307/3241244|Four lichens and one moss, with associated microorganisms, from a granite outcrop ecosystem were tested for nitrogen fixation with the acetylene-reduction method. All samples tested reduced acetylene to ethylene in excess of that determined for control samples. Nitrogen fixation by Azotobacter (found in all samples) may contribute to the nitrogen pool of pioneer vegetation occurring on the granite outcrops studied. However, the relative importance of any such fixation could not be assessed accurately by the methods used.
10.2307/3243001|The saxicolous and corticolous lichen communities in Zion National Park were surveyed. A total of six sampling sites were established in Zion Canyon with a seventh site in Coalpits Wash, 22 km south of Zion National Park Visitor Center. Individual trees at each site were selected for lichen sampling using the quarter method. Aspect-induced differences in the distribution of corticolous species were determined by examining quadrats on the north, south, east and west exposures of each individual tree. Rock substrates at each site were selected on the basis of overall size and exposure. Frequency and density of lichen species on all substrates were determined using a 2 by 100 cm quadrat with ten equal subquadrats. Data analyses indicated that the lichen floras on each substrate were unique. Of the saxicolous substrates sampled, species diversity was highest on sandstone boulders. Lichen floras on Populus fremontii, Quercus gambelii and Acer grandidentatum showed the greatest diversity of the corticolous substrates. The lichen flora of Zion Canyon includes a relatively high percentage of foliose and fruticose lichen species. This is especially evident when this flora is compared with floras of other arid environments. This phenomenon is likely attributable to the unique microclimatic features of the canyon.
10.2307/3244100| Groutiella elimbata (Thr.) O'Shea, endemic to Madagascar is transferred to the genus Cardotiella. Gametophytically it is similar to C. renauldii (Broth.) Vitt except for the naked vaginula and the presence of some papillose cells in the upper lamina, especially along the costa. The endostome of C. elimbata (Thriot) Goffinet comb. nov. differs from the typical Cardotiella-endostome by strong resorption of anticlinal wall remnants of the PPL, resulting in these walls scarcely protruding above-or even completely embedded-in the PPL thickening. A similar architecture of the segments is shown to occur in Florschuetziella steerei and Pleurorthotrichum chilense. Cardotiella appendiculata is reported as new for Mauritius. 
10.2307/3240601|Two new sites are reported for the production of bulbils in Conocephalum conicum, namely (1) any place on the ventral epidermis and (2) the parenchyma between the dorsal and ventral epidermis. Bulbils are readily produced by keeping thallus fragments in the dark for about 28 days. The midrib with bulbils attached appears to inhibit substantially the bulbil-producing capacity of the rest of the thallus. One mm
10.2307/3241997|Details of sporophyte development are lacking for many hepatics. Thus, these data remain unavailable for taxonomic and phylogenetic considerations. Development of the embryo in Lophocolea heterophylla (Schrad.) Dum. was investigated in live material and in serial sections of preserved material. The ontogeny of the archegonium was also observed. The archegonium of L. heterophylla (Schrad.) Dum. develops in a manner similar to all jungermannias. Unique features are its stalk and the occurrence of paraphyses in the terminal cluster. In the Jungermanniopsida, there are two general trends in early embryo development. The hypobasal cell may give rise to the foot and haustorium or it may give rise to only the haustorium. The embryo of L. heterophylla follows the latter trend. This is in agreement with the majority of reports for members of the Jungermanniopsida.
10.2307/3243173|Analysis of the cytoskeletal and locomotory apparatus in spermatids of Sphaerocarpos donnellii and Riella americana shows that they share an unusual structural characteristic not previously observed in hepatics. The spline, a supportive band of parallel microtubules, commonly has a wider, asymmetric, anterior portion tapering posteriorly to a prolonged, narrow shank of six or more tubules. In Sphaerocarpos and Riella the spline anterior comprises a maximum of 20 and 24 microtubules, respectively. However, the shanks of these splines comprise only two tubules each, three times fewer than has been observed heretofore. The close morphological similarities in the blepharoplasts of these two taxa constitute additional evidence of close phylogenetic affinity, and will serve as the basis for comparison with the putatively spharocarpalean Geothallus as well as with hepatics in unrelated orders.
3244329|Asterella is a large group of chambered liverworts with a worldwide distribution; the genus is primarily defined by the presence of a pseudoperianth, a cage-like structure surrounding each capsule in the carpocephalum. Molecular phylogenies of a range of Asterella species were reconstructed using two chloroplast DNA sequences (ca. 70% of the matK coding region and the trnL intron), in order to study relationships of species within the genus and to test hypothetical relationships predicted by spore ornamentation types. The matK gene has not been used previously in bryophytes. Sixteen species of Asterella were sampled; representatives of the other four (smaller) genera of Aytoniaceae were also sampled i.e., Cryptomitrium (one species), Mannia (two species), Reboulia (one species), and Plagiochasma (two species). Outgroups selected from other families of Marchantiopsida were Athalamia (Cleveaceae), Lunularia (Lunulariaceae), Marchantia (Marchantiaceae), Riccia (Ricciaceae), and Targionia (Targioniaceae). Three analyses were performed: 1) matK, 2) trnL, and 3) a combined weighted matK/trnL analysis. The last analysis produced a single most parsimonious tree. Analyses rooted on Lunularia produced a stable resolved tree topology, with very strong support for Aytoniaceae as a monophyletic group, but with Asterella appearing as a paraphyletic genus including its four sister-genera. Paraphyly of 'Asterella' suggests that the pseudoperianth is actually a plesiomorphy within the family that has been lost during at least three separate evolutionary events. The major clades within Aytoniaceae have distinctive spore ornamentation types, and some of the infrageneric groups of Asterella inferred from spore characters are supported by the molecular analyses. The traditional subfamily groupings of genera within Aytoniaceae, however, are not supported. The taxonomic implications of the study are discussed.
10.2307/3241363| Aloina rigida (Hedw.) Limpr., Pohlia cruegeri (Hampe ex C. Mll.) Andr., and P. pulchella (Hedw.) Lindb. are new to Louisiana. Distributional data are given for three other species of mosses. 
10.2307/3242283| Four species of mosses, Funaria hygrometrica, Hedw. Physcomitrium pyriforme (Hedw.) Hampe, Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) B.S.G. and Amblystegium varium (Hedw.) Lindb. were examined for growth response to 5-bromodeoxyuridine in the range of 0-2000  M. Funaria hygrometrica and Physcomitrella patens showed no response in terms of fresh weight, dry weight or growth form. Amblystegium varium was able to incorporate the nucleosides, thymidine and 5-bromodeoxyuridine, as indicated by autoradiography with the test compounds. 
10.2307/3241213|Ramalina sinaloensis Bowler & Rundel from Sinaloa, Mexico, is described. It is superficially similar to R. complanata (Sw.) Ach. and R. denticulata (Eschw.) Nyl., but is distinguished by its more abundant white papillae and its chemistry. It has laminal, subterminal apothecia, and contains sekikaic (?) and an unknown acid.
10.2307/3241586|The apothecia of Parmelia conspersa (Ach.) Ach. develop from a primordium lodged in the thallus and formed by an ascogonial filament surrounded by a palisade of erect hyphae, a structure nearly reduced to a "brush." Then, the thallus forms a thalline margin around this "brush" which is changed into a paraplectenchymatous shell producing a) at the top, a marginal crown; b) towards the outside, amphithecial hyphae that are added to the thalline margin; and c) inwards, around the ascogenous apparatus, a plexus from which a paraphysogenous hyaline layer is derived. The asci are of the "archaeasce" type.
10.2307/3242116| Brachythecium campestre (C. Muell.) B.S.G., Fissidens bushii (Card. & Thr.) Card. & Thr., Pohlia wahlenbergii (Web. & Mohr) Andr., Pylaisiella selwynii (Kindb.) Crum, Steere & Anderson, and Ulota crispa (Hedw.) Brid. are reported as new from Illinois. 
3244634|The following paper represents one of a series on the current status of the tropical genus Leucoloma Brid. The first portion of the paper summarizes the morphological characters of the genus to set the foundation for the revision of Subgenus Leucoloma. Two additional papers on Leucoloma are found in this volume of The Bryologist. The results presented here incorporate the phylogenetic and biogeographic analyses that have been published previously (La FargeEngland 1998). The focus of this paper is the revision of Leucoloma subgenus Leucoloma in Africa and Madagascar. This includes a revision of 25 species, including two new species, two new subspecific taxa, and one new combination (Leucoloma madagascariense sp. nov., L. membranaceum sp. nov., L. chrysobasilare ssp. africana ssp. nov., L. ochrobasilare ssp. longifolium comb. nov., L. zuluense var. ovatum var. nov.), new synonymy, a key to species and subspecific taxa, distribution maps, and illustrations of each species.
10.2307/3240949|Barbula malagana, a new species of the section Hydrogonium from Peru, is distinguished by narrow, acute leaves, narrowly decurrent at the base and smooth, pellucid leaf cells.
10.2307/3240956|Cephaloziella obliqua Douin, Plagiochila asplenioides (L.) Dum., and Riccardia latifrons Lindb. are reported from Texas. The range extension for Cephaloziella obliqua is particularly great.
10.2307/3243248|Seven mosses are reported for the first time from Arkansas and Missouri.
10.2307/3241994|Patterns of sporophyte maturation dates (SMDs) in the Pottiaceae correlate with sexual condition, latitude, date of regional precipitation maximum, habitat and taxonomic group. Most closely related species have SMDs at about the same time (at the month or season level of resolution), but many species complexes, sections, genera and suprageneric taxa have distinctive SMDs that may be used as taxonomic characters. An eurychronic group of mostly dioicous, largely hygrophilic species shows a relatively great differentiation of SMDs between geographic regions.
20061100|Protonemata of three mosses (Bryum rubens Mitt., Campylopus introflexus (Hedw.) Brid,. and Polytrichum formosum Hedw.) were exposed in sterile cultures to low concentrations of the bracken herbicide asulam, added to the solidified growth medium. Protonemata were either exposed for 24 hours and then transferred onto media without asulam, or exposed constantly to the asulam media. Growth was measured over a three-week period as the mean of two plug diameters, and development of leafy gametophores was noted. A 24-hour exposure period to asulam had no effect on the growth or development of the mosses at concentrations of 0.001-1 g a.i. (active ingredient)
10.2307/3241334|Cetraria inermis, originally described as a form of C. crispa from eastern Siberia, proves to be a distinct species most closely related to C. subalpina Imsh. It is characteristic of the tundra zone and has a restricted distribution in the Bering Strait region.
10.2307/3244454| The hitherto monospecific European genus Staurolemma is shown to contain two more species, S. dussii (Vain.) P. M. Jrg. & Henssen in subtropical America (West Indies and Hawaii), usually previously included in Lempholemma, an unrelated genus that has different ascomata (pycnoascocarpia), asci, and hymenial reactions - and the closely related Hawaiian endemic, S. weberi Henssen & P. M. Jrg. sp. nov. A key to the simple-spored genera of Collemataceae is presented. 
43188698|Fungal selectivity (range of potential partners) for algal symbionts has been found to vary in lichen associations. Although a large number of studies have focused on the taxonomy and evolution of fungi in the speciose parmelioid clade (Parmeliaceae, Ascomycota), fungal-algal interactions in this ecologically and evolutionarily diverse group remain largely unexplored. In this study we investigated the algal symbionts of Xanthoparmelia fungi in western North America. We generated sequence data from a total of 58 rock shield lichens (Xanthoparmelia fungi + Trebouxia algae) collected across three sites in a subalpine community in southern Utah, USA. We explored the role of substrates, secondary metabolite variation, phenotype-based Xanthoparmelia species, mycobiont genetic population clusters, and sitespecific differences in structuring assemblages of algae. Our results indicate that Xanthoparmelia fungi associate with a broad range of Trebouxia lineages in a local, subalpine habitat. Most algae sampled form part of the diverse Trebouxia 'arboricolalgigantea' clade, while a small number of algae from outside of this clade were also found to associate with the Xanthoparmelia species investigated here. Our results also revealed multiple Trebouxia lineages within the T. 'arboricolagigantea' clade that have not been previously recognized. Furthermore, accumulation curves suggested that additional algal diversity in rock shield lichen communities in the sampled subalpine habitat may be recovered with increased sampling. Overall, we found no clear association of algal clades with traditional phenotype-based Xanthoparmelia species, mycobiont genetic population clusters, distinct extrolites, or substrates. However, our data revealed significant genetic structuring of Trebouxia communities in separate subalpine meadow areas in a relatively homogeneous subalpine community. Significant site-specific differences in Trebouxia diversity in rock shield lichen communities and low selectivity suggest that photobiont flexibility may play an important role in overall successful colonization of rock shield lichens across a wide array of habitats in western North America.
10.2307/3240831| Unattached polsters of Schistidium apocarpum occur on sandy soil near a dune on Anchitka Island. They become detached from the substrate by wind erosion. Subsequent rolling about on the soil permits growth on all their surfaces and they become spheroids. They resemble the "jkla ms" (glacier mice) reported on glaciers in Iceland and Alaska and the "mosbollar" (moss balls) on sandy substrates in Norway and on pebbly ground in Japan. 
20110790|Nucleotide sequence data from three chloroplast genes (rbcL, rps4 and psbA), one nuclear gene (the ribosomal LSU) and one mitochondrial gene (nad5) were assembled for 173 species in 117 genera of liverworts, making this the largest molecular phylogeny of the group to date. Analyses of these data provide support for the monophyly of the liverworts, and for previously resolved backbone relationships within the Marchantiophyta. The earliest divergence involves the "simple thalloid" taxa of the Haplomitriaceae and Treubiaceae. A Blasiaceae/complex thalloid clade is resolved as sister to all remaining liverworts. The leafy liverworts do not resolve as monophyletic. The separation of the Aneuraceae/Metzgeriaceae from all other simple thalloids and their placement within the "leafy" clade as sister to the enigmatic leafy genus Pleurozia, as suggested in earlier molecular phylogenies, is also supported by this far larger data set.
10.2307/3241185|The occurrence of two eggs in an archegonium and polyembryony in Mannia foreaui are described. It is suggested that available space in the archegonial cavity is one of the factors determining the shape and nature of the divisions in the proembryo. The presence of two embryos in the same archegonium may cause a shifting in the pole of the first vertical division in the potential embryo.
10.2307/3244545|This first list of lichens of the Russian Arctic is based on specimens collected by the authors in different parts of the Russian Arctic, verified herbarium specimens, kept in LE and on literature reports. Over 300 lichenological and geobotanical papers concerned with the Russian Arctic have been critically analyzed. The accepted territory of the Russian Arctic includes tundra areas of Russia to the north of the northern tree limit with the exception of adjacent southern uplands with mountain tundra vegetation and of the Kola Peninsula. Distribution of taxa is indicated for each of 15 natural geographical and floristic units. In total 1,102 taxa: 1078 species, 7 subspecies, and 17 varieties in 192 genera and 69 families of lichens and lichenicolous fungi are accepted for the Russian Arctic. About 900 synonyms are given separately, with reference to the accepted names.
10.2307/3243970|Descriptions are provided for two new species of Sphagnum from the state of Bahia, Brazil: S. vitalii (sect. Sphagnum) and S. contortulum (sect. Cuspidata).
41289795|A new species in the lichen genera Graphis Adans., G. paradussii Z. F. Jia is described from Hainan Province, southern China. It is characterized by prominent to sessile lirellae with thalline margin, laterally carbonized exciple, 8 transversely septate ascospores per ascus and presence of norstictic and salazinc acid.
40732301|Bryum minii Podp. ex Machado-Guim. is a rare western-Europe endemic that is here reported for the first time for south-central Spain in the Iberian Peninsula. This new locality links the previously widely disjunct localities from France and Sardinia with the core of its distribution in Portugal; most of the intervening area is of calcareous nature, inappropriate for this acidophilous species. A detailed description, diagnostic characters with photographs, and a map of the currently known distribution are provided. We also discuss the correct authorship as the name must be attributed to A. Machado-Guimaraes, the Portuguese bryologist. Bryum minii var. brevifolium Machado-Guim. is lectotypified and the name is here considered synonymous with B. minii. The species seems related to the taxa now included in the genera Rosulabryum Spence or Plagiobryum Lindb., depending on the taxonomic concept employed.
3244898|A new moss species, Ptychomitrium yulongshanum Cao & Guo, is described from fruiting material collected from Yunnan province, in southwestern China. The ovate, cucullate leaves with obtuse apices; small, smooth, upper and median leaf cells; oblong-ovate capsules; and mitrate calyptra covering only half the capsule are distinguishing traits of the new species.
20485824|Algal and fungal symbionts of the lichenized genus Thamnolia typically codisperse through thallus fragmentation, which may be expected to lead to fungal associations with a restricted range of algal symbionts. Here we examine the range of algae that associate with the fungus Thamnolia vermicularis. Phylogenetic analyses of internal transcribed spacer rDNA (ITS) sequences suggest that Trebouxia algae associated with T. vermicularis are not monophyletic. Algal and fungal phylogenies were compared, and although some congruence was found, a Mantel test found no significant correlation between fungal and algal genetic distances. An AMOVA suggested that ecogeographic factors play a stronger role than fungal genotype in structuring photobiont diversity. Additionally, as a species, T. vermicularis associates with a range of algae equal to or greater than that of many other fungal taxa.
3244132|Air quality studies often take advantage of the ability of lichens and mosses to accumulate certain contaminants in their tissues. In order to evaluate the rate of contaminant accumulation from concentrations in tissues, the age of the tissue must be known. Our objective was to develop and test a method for estimating annual growth rates and thallus ages for Masonhalea richardsonii, a vagrant clonal lichen abundant throughout its Beringean range. The annual growth rate of healthy individuals from Arctic Alaska, based on the 75th percentile of a cumulative frequency distribution, was 11.6% (90% confidence interval: 11.2-13.3%). This growth rate suggests that the biomass of a healthy M. richardsonii individual doubles within a period of approximately 6.3 years (90% confidence interval: 5.6-6.5 years). Average ages for the thalli in this study were estimated at 5 to 41 years using a negative compound interest formula and assuming initial masses of thallus fragments. Calculations and their appropriate application are shown and the methodology is discussed.
10.2307/3243619|The foliose and fruticose lichen flora of South Korea includes 189 species in 46 genera and 17 families. In this first lichen flora for South Korea, the species are described, their habitats and local ranges noted, and keys for identification are provided. An index to the names of families, genera, and species is included. One new species, Myelochroa coreana Park, and one new combination, Nephromopsis pallescens (Schaer.) Park are proposed.
10.2307/3242415| The circumscription of Meteoriopsis Fleisch. ex Broth. is emended to include only three Asian species: M. reclinata (C.Mll.) Fleisch. ex Broth. and M. squarrosa (Hook.) Fleisch. ex Broth. are widespread in southern Asia; M. undulata Horik. & Nog. in Nog. is endemic to southern Japan. Pseudobarbella ancistrodes (Ren. & Card.) Manuel is a new combination. The nomen nudum Meteoriopsis sordida Broth. ex Brhl. is discussed. Descriptions, illustrations, keys and distribution maps, remarks on bryogeography, morphology, nomenclature and taxonomy are provided. 
10.2307/3241268|Twenty-one species of thallose liverworts are reported from Nainital, Western Himalayas.
10.2307/3241945|Ninety-six mosses are reported new to the Yukon Territory of northwestern Canada. All of these records are from the unglaciated or locally glaciated Ogilvie Mountains in the north-central part of the Territory.
3244281|The West Indian moss flora, with about 714 species and varieties, is widely represented in North America (Mexico), Central and South America. There are northward and southward trends in the distribution of taxa that suggest, along with the overall similarity of the moss flora of each area, that mosses dispersed to Cuba, Jamaica, Hispaniola, and the Lesser Antilles in Pliocene and Pleistocene times. A vicariant event is not favored as the explanation for most patterns of distribution, because much of the islands' surface was underwater when rafting was completed. A dendrogram resulting from an UPGMA cluster analysis of the sinilarity matrix shows that Haiti, Dominican Republic, and Jamaica exhibit floristic differences among them and with their neighbors that seem to be consistent with the a non-vicariant origin of the moss floras.
10.2307/3244259|A taxonomic revision emphasizing characters of gametophytes as well as sporophytes is presented for Plagiochila sect. Alternantes Carl and sect. Minutidentes Carl. The two groups are treated as new synonyms of P. sect. Plagiochila. In the Neotropics, sect. Plagiochila contains two species, P. alternans Lindenb. & Gottsche and P. ovata Lindenb. & Gottsche, both widely distributed at high elevations in tropical America. Ten species are reduced to synonymy and four are excluded from sect. Plagiochila. Lectotypes are designated for Plagiochila alternans, P. ovata and for many of their synonyms. A preliminary evaluation of the relationships of P. sect. Plagiochila indicates a close affinity to the neotropical Plagiochila subplana Lindenb. Plagiochila integerrima Steph. from Africa, previously placed in sect. Plagiochila, is transferred to sect. Subplanae.
10.2307/3240986|Hyophilopsis is described as a new genus segregated from Desmatodon. It includes H. sprengelii (Schwaegr.) Crum, H. spathulifolia (Bartr.) Crum, H. stomatodonta (Card.) Crum, and H. lingulata (Card.) Crum and is characterized by rosulate-foliate stems, oblong-spatulate leaves with erect or incurved margins, broadly pointed, usually mucronate apices, costa with a single stereid band, and cells bulging on the upper surface.
10.2307/3242017|This list includes the species, subspecies and varieties of Hepatics and Anthocerotes reported from the contiguous United States, Canada, Alaska and Greenland. A systematic arrangement of the 119 genera found in this area is followed by an alphabetical list of the taxa. This is appended by a catalog of synonyms and excluded names. Essential annotations conclude the checklist.
10.2307/3240992|Twelves species of Fissidens are reported from northeastern Mississippi. One of these, F. asplenioides Hedw., has not previously been recorded from the United States.
3244638|Floras facilitate the identification of plants from a particular region. This essay reviews the historical development of printed lichen floras utilizing dichotomous keys for North America. In the future 'virtualfloras' utilizing a more flexible electronic keying system will be possible. Additionally, essential components of such virtual floras include several databases-for characters, collections, images, synonyms and accepted names, literature, and terminology (glossary). Integration of the various components utilizing both centralized and distributed approaches is now possible, and will lead to a comprehensive on-line lichen determination system. Proposed ways, in which the data can be used beyond simple species determination, are also briefly discussed.
10.2307/3241315| Bryum truncorum (Brid.) Brid. has been misunderstood, both in taxonomy and distribution, by current bryologists. It is revealed here that this moss is quite distinct specifically from that recognized as B. truncorum before, and that this moss is so far distributed in Madagascar and Runion Island only. 
10.2307/3242439|Algal plasmolysis percentages and other morphological characteristics of Parmelia bolliana Mull. Arg., P. caperata (L.) Ach., P. rudecta Ach., and Physcia millegrana Degel. were compared for specimens growing near to and far from a rural coal-fired generating station in south central Wisconsin. SO
10.2307/3243802|Specimens of Bryochenea sachalinensis from the Talkeetna Mountains, Alaska are the first North American collections of this moss. They were found on humus in mesic tundra with granitic or granodioritic outcrops. The addition of Alaska to its range reveals that its distribution parallels that of a number of other bryophytes in the North Pacific Coast element. Bryochenea sachalinensis differs in part from Helodium s.s. by occurrence in mesic (not hydric) habitats and by small dioicous plants with filiform, branched-filiform and laciniate-foliose paraphyllia.
10.2307/3242867|Eighteen bryophytes, including Bryum pyriferum Crundw. & Whiteh. new to North America, are added to the flora of New Mexico. Recent collecting in the southern and central parts of the state adds 15 mosses and one liverwort to the bryoflora, while herbarium studies and an overlooked literature report account for the other two additions.
10.2307/3242348|The moss Fissidens fontanus (B.-Pyl.) Steud. is reported for the first time from North America on shells of living freshwater mussels, Quadrula pustulosa Lea, Tritigonia verrucosa Raf. and Lampsilis straminea Conrad. The moss Leptodictyum riparium (Hedw.) Warnst. is also reported on Lampsilis straminea.
10.2307/3242907|Two granite outcrops in the Piedmont of east-central Alabama yielded two moss species new to the state and a range extension of 320 km for a lichen. Pleurochaete squarrosa, thought to be restricted to calcareous substrates, is reported from a granitic rock outcrop 160 km south of its previously known range in the Interior Low Plateaus and Valley and Ridge Province. Pleurozium schreberi, a boreal moss that extends through the Appalachian Mountains into North Carolina, is found 240 km to the south at an elevation of only 248 m. Cladina evansii is also reported from the Piedmont, 320 km disjunct from its typical localities in maritime forests or sandhills of the Coastal Plain. We urge more intensive collecting of plants from granite outcrops throughout the Southeast before these sites are destroyed.
10.2307/3242276|Localities and notes on ecology, distribution and taxonomy are given for three hepatics and twenty-five mosses new to the Svalbard archipelago, Norway, European Arctic. A lectotype is selected for Tetrapolodon pallidus Hag.
10.2307/3241414|The substance responsible for the KC+ medullary reaction of Parmelia madagascariacea is identified as gyrophoric acid. It distinguishes this species from the closely related P. xanthina. Parmelia aberrans, which also produces gyrophoric acid, and P. madagascariacea are conspecific, the latter epithet having priority.
10.2307/3243950|Astomiopsis amblyocalyx C.M. and A. exserta (Bartr.) Snider are sympatric in the highlands of central Mexico where they are apparently able to interbreed, resulting in putative hybrid sporophytes-on A. amblyocalyx gametophytes-which are morphologically intermediate between those of the presumed parental species. The stomata and spores are, however, smaller in the putative hybrid sporophytes.
10.2307/3244226|In order to assess the effects of O
10.2307/3241011|Gemmae were irradiated with increasing exposures of Co
10.2307/3244462|A new species from the Philippines, Plagiochila luzonensis Grolle & M. L. So, sp. nov. is described and illustrated. Nine species names belonging to sect. Subtropicae Carl are newly placed in synonymy: P. dichotomoramosa Inoue (= P. fordiana Steph.), P. fissifolia Steph. (= P. furcifolia Mitt.), P. gammiana Steph. (= P. nepalensis Lindenb.), P. grata Steph. (= P. nepalensis Lindenb.), P. hattorii Inoue (= P. parvifolia Lindenb.), P. neorupicola Inoue (= P. cuspidata Steph.), P. phalangea Taylor (= P. parvifolia Lindenb.), P. tjibodensis Schiffn. (= P. javanica (Sw.) Nees & Mont.), and P. yokogurensis Steph. (= P. parvifolia Lindenb.). Plagiochila salacensis Gottsche and P. peradenyensis Schiffn, are shifted from sect. Subtropicae to sect. Contiguae Carl, and P. fordiana Steph. from sect. Cobanae Carl to sect. Subtropicae. The gynoecia of P. kunmingensis Piippo from Yunnan, China, are described for the first time. Lectotypes are designated for P. fissifolia and P. salacensis. A key to the nine species of sect. Subtropicae in East Asia is provided.
25614896|Compared to the mainland, boreal oceanic islands would be expected to have a depauperate lichen biota because of their isolation, small area, exposure to salt spray and structurally simple habitats. We surveyed the macrolichens (non-crustose lichens) and quantified habitat associations on Kent Island, an 80-hectare island that lies at the mouth of the Bay of Fundy, New Brunswick, Canada. A total of 43 species in 13 genera were identified, which represents 19% of the macrolichen species richness of Fundy National Park on the mainland coast of New Brunswick. Cyanolichens were not found on Kent Island. Nearly 75% of Kent Island's macrolichen species had boreal biogeographical affinities, despite the island's temperate latitude (4435'N) and low elevation, due to the chilling influence of the locally upwelling Labrador Current. Multi-response Permutation Procedures and Indicator Species Analysis demonstrated non-random habitat associations among Kent Island's macrolichen species and moderate but significant differences in lichen communities among five forest types on the island.
10.2307/3241385|Some 780 epithets of lichens have been reported for Colorado. After reducing the list by synonymies and misidentifications, 521 taxa remain-448 species in 88 genera, 6 subspecies, 39 varieties, and 29 forms. The catalog is based upon reports in 187 papers.
40982987|Phlyctis subagelaea, with muriform spores and P. karnatakana with septate spores are newly described from India. Both species have a restricted distribution in Western Ghats south India where they grow on tree trunks in evergreen forest.
10.2307/3241333| Calymperopsis semiliber (Mitt.) Fleisch., Dicranodontium denudatum (Brid.) Britt., Fissidens taxifolius Hedw., Haplocladium microphyllum (Hedw.) Broth., Leucophanes glaucum (Schwaegr.) Mitt., and Splachnobryum obtusum (Brid.) C. Mll. are new to the Hawaiian Islands. An additional 12 new island records and 6 rarely collected taxa are reported. 
10.2307/3244055|Genetic markers from horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis showed that plants of Mnium orientale n. sp. from Japan, currently referred to M. hornum, are genetically distinct from M. hornum Hedw. of Europe and North America. Plants from Japan expressed unique alleles at approximately half of the loci surveyed. In contrast, samples from Poland and the eastern United States were highly similar, differing at only a single locus. Genetic variation was low in all populations, with expected heterozygosities reaching only 5.5% in the most polymorphic populations from Japan. Genetic evidence therefore strongly supports Koponen's earlier suspicions, based on morphological and ecological differences, that the Japanese populations represent a distinct species from M. hornum of Europe and North America. Accordingly, we suggest the new name Mnium orientale for these plants, which are characterized by their smaller size, excurrent costa, more broadly decurrent leaf base, and smaller, thick-walled laminal cells. Our approach demonstrates the utility of genetic evidence in resolving taxonomic problems in wide-ranging species of bryophytes.
41486715|In seed plants, populations located at the margins of species distributions are often characterized by reduced sexual reproduction and an increased reliance asexual reproduction. The degree to which this pattern applies to reproductivetraits in haploid-dominant, non-seed plants was assessed in the Syrrhopodon involutus Schwaeg complex, a group of closely related tropical mosses with unisexual gametophytes. The second internal transcribed spacer (ITS2) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA was sequenced for samples from throughout the range of the Syrrhopodon involutus Schwaeg complex and a maximum likelihood analysis was performed on the sequence data to infer phylogenetic history. Reproductive data were collected from 270 herbarium vouchers representing at least 337 individuals, and analyzed to test for geographic or phylogenetic differences in sex expression and sexual reproduction. Female sex expression was significantly lower among marginally distributed individuals compared to individuals collected from areas central to the distribution of the complex, and the marginal group contained a higher proportion of non-expressing individuals. The proportion of male-expressing gametophytes was not significantly different between marginal and central areas. Despite the lower proportion of female-expressing gametophytes in marginally distributed individuals, the percentage offemale-expressing gametophytes undergoing successful fertilization and producing sporophytes was not significantly different in marginal and central distributional areas. These results suggest that the availability of males constrains the production of sporophytes, not only at the margins of species distributions, but in central areas as well, and that geography exerts a disproportionate effect on male and female sex expression.
10.2307/3242299| The genera Costesia Thr. and Neosharpiella Robins. & Delg. are transferred from the Funariaceae to the Gigaspermaceae. Neosharpiella turgida (Mitt.) Robins. & Delg. is reported for the first time from Chile. The morphology of the six genera currently placed in the Gigaspermaceae is compared and generic inter-relationships discussed. SEM micrographs of the spores of four genera are given. In the revised sense presented, the Gigaspermaceae have a widely scattered, predominantly Southern Hemispheric distribution. Nomenclatural notes on several taxa are appended and several lectotypes are proposed. 
10.2307/3243691|The moss flora of Colombia is examined in terms of the floristic composition of the nearly 900 species. Overall taxonomic diversity is compared between the eastern North American and Colombian moss floras. It is suggested that temperate and tropical moss diversity may not exhibit a strong latitudinal gradient in species richness from high to low latitudes. Species richness increases with elevation in Colombia, at least to near treeline, in the high montane vegetational zone; at 2,600-3,300 m ca. 50% of the total species diversity occurs. The Andean region, covering ca. 20-25% of the Colombian land surface, contains ca. 93% of the total species diversity for the mosses. An appendix provides several new synonyms and additions to the Colombian moss flora.
10.2307/3241623|The presence of mannose, melibiose, maltose, and deoxyribose is certified for the first time in mosses.
10.2307/3243327|In Folioceros the gametophytic and sporophytic tissues are closely intermingled, much more like the foot region of Phaeoceros than the widely separated gametophytic and sporophytic tissues typical of many species of Anthoceros. Although the foot regions of the two Folioceros species studied are similar in some respects to those of other species of Anthoceros (e.g., presence of a palisade layer), the presence of small (2-3 nm periodicity) protein crystals and the close intermingling of gametophytic and sporophytic tissues are distinct from most of the Anthoceros species. Based on our findings, we conclude that Folioceros should be separated from Anthoceros at the subgeneric level.
25614906|The two most recent classifications of mosses differ from other systems in the ranking of major lineages typified by Takakia, Sphagnum, Andreaea, Andreaeobryum and peristomate mosses. Here we propose to accommodate all these lineages at the subphylum rather than the informal superclass rank, which requires that the Andreaeophytina stat. nov. and Andreaeobryophytina stat. nov. be erected.
10.2307/3241407| Reboulia hemisphaerica archegoniophores elongated in late spring, in Kansas, with the exact date apparently dependent upon temperature and available moisture. Archegoniophores on plants collected in early spring, before elongation was initiated, elongated completely within 2 weeks under long day regimes (12 hr. light, 12 hr. dark, or 16 hr. light, 8 hr. dark) at either 15 or 25C but not under a short day regime (8 hr. light, 16 hr. dark). Cold temperature (5C) slowed the rate of elongation. Application of plant growth hormones in lanolin to the tops of archegonial heads did not stimulate archegoniophores to elongate to normal lengths under short days. 
3244752|Two widespread, polymorphic, but morphologically similar species of Pleuridium have long confused botanists. The sexual condition (autoicous versus paroicous) and perichaetial leaf lamina thickness (unistratose versus bistratose) morphologically distinguish Pleuridium subulatum from P. acuminatum. Additional evidence from cytological voucher specimens revealed that two chromosome numbers (n = 13 and n = 26) are congruent with the two respective taxa. Pleuridium subulatum (Hedw.) Rabenh. is lectotypified by a specimen from the herbarium of J. Hedwig and Pleuridium acuminatum Lindb. by a specimen from the herbarium of S. O. Lindberg).
10.2307/3242749|Biogenetic relationships of secondary products in lichens can be used for cladistic analyses of evolutionary relationships among taxa. Character states are derived from biogenetic hypotheses for the origin of the steps required to generate the final products. These biogenetic characters are then used instead of the final products themselves to propose possible evolutionary histories. The Cladonia chlorophaea group provides an example of how preliminary biogenetic hypotheses can lead to a cladogram for the 14 chemotypes presently known in the complex.
10.2307/3244411| The genus Pseudoparmelia Lynge has its center of diversity in tropical South America (Brazil), with a secondary center in southern Africa. The genus is characterized by a pale to olive-brown lower surface with simple rhizines, isolichenan in the cell walls, a pored epicortex, a pale-yellow or yellow medulla, and secalonic acids and low concentrations of atranorin in the upper cortex. Pseudoparmelia has secondary-product chemistry characterized by secalonic acid derivatives together with -orcinol metSL-depsides or -orcinol depsidones. A total of 22 known compounds is reported for the genus, based upon thin-layer and high-performance liquid chromatographic analyses of 273 specimens. Pseudoparmelia is now considered to comprise 16 species - seven of which are here described as new. Four new combinations within the genus are made. 
3244662|The secondary metabolites gyrophoric acid and psoromic acid are reported from foliicolous species of the genus Enterographa. They are found to be of diagnostic value.
10.2307/3244437| Syrrhopodon mauritianus ngstrm, a rare species of eastern Africa and the Malagasy-Mascarene region, is unique in the Calymperaceae in that its gemmae are composed largely of a series of transverse tiers of four equal cells and its costae are longitudinally lamellose ad- and abaxially. The strongly dimorphic leaves and yellowish leaf bases of S. mauritianus suggest that it is most closely related to the S. circinatus-hornschuchii-rigidus complex of the American tropics. The occurrence in a single species of two features unique at the family level presents an enigma. 
10.2307/3243079|Six Mittenothamnium species described from Mexico are revised. Mittenothamnium pringlei, M. imbricatulum and M. subthelistegum are reduced to synonyms of Chryso-hypnum diminutivum; M. squarrosulum is transferred to Chryso-hypnum; and M. pendulinum and M. mexicanum are found to be synonymous with M. reptans.
10.2307/3242353|To test the effect, discovered by M. O. Hill, of weak alkali on red-pigmented species of Sphagnum, a solution of sodium bicarbonate in water was applied to 17 species in six sections of the genus. Species tested in the sections Rigida, Subsecunda and Cuspidata did not change color (or in sect. Subsecunda became redder). Sphagnum magellanicum (sect. Sphagnum) turned dark brown-black. Sphagnum wulfianum (sect. Polyclada) turned chocolate brown. The remaining nine species in sect. Acutifolia turned blue or dark blue. The chemical test was equally effective on fresh, freshly dried and herbarium material. At present the significance of this test is unknown since the chemical nature of Sphagnum pigments is only now being determined.
10.2307/3243375|Diurnal changes in chlorophyll fluorescence and carotenoid composition were studied in artificially hydrated thalli of the lichen Anaptychia ciliaris to assess the concomitant variations in photosynthetic efficiency and xanthophyll cycle associated energy dissipation under contrasting light conditions. One group of thalli was kept continuously wet (over 50% of maximum water content) while another was kept dry and hydrated only 15 minutes before each measurement. Half of the thalli of each group were kept in the shade (natural environment) while the other half were exposed to direct sunlight. The photochemical efficiency of photosystem II (assessed by the fluorescence parameter Fv/Fm) decreased significantly towards the end of the day in thalli of A. ciliaris kept wet under direct sunlight, but not in wet, shaded thalli. The relative proportions of antheraxanthin (A) and zeaxanthin (Z) of wet thalli exposed to direct sunlight showed a significant increase in the afternoon and a sharp decrease during the evening. Dry thalli hydrated just 15 minutes before the measurements showed similar diurnal changes in Fv/Fm and in the relative proportions of A + Z to the continuously wet thalli under the same light environment. Predawn data from naturally dried thalli indicated a sustained high proportion of A + Z that accounted for a relatively low photochemical efficiency at the beginning of the experiments.
43188694|A new species with a corticated brown thallus, Sarcogyne mitziae, is described from biotic soil crusts in California, Idaho, and Washington. The species is considered rare and occurs in habitat that is threatened by anthropogenic factors such as development, grazing, and fire, throughout western North America. Seventeen species of Sarcogyne are currently recognized for North America.
3244144|A densitometric technique was developed that permitted rapid quantification of lichen compounds separated by thin-layer chromatography. Thin-layer plates were scanned in a densitometer using a UV light source and density-dependent absorbance or fluorescence was measured for each compound. The lichen products tested differed with respect to photostability under UV, and thus in the time taken to achieve constant densitometric readings. Minimal exposure times required for stabilization of the compounds tested ranged from 3 min to 2.5 hr.
10.2307/3243328|A critical comparative study based on the gametophytic characters and acid-base color reactions of T. arapilensis was made. This is the only European species of the genus, although several species with disjunct areas of distribution-T. californica, T. filicaulis, T. papillata, T. patagonica, and T. tristica-appear to be very closely related. We show that there are important differences to keep T. arapilensis as an independent species. The current distribution of T. arapilensis is mapped.
10.2307/3242650|The generic name, Mielichhoferia Nees, Hornsch. & Sturm. is synonymous with and has priority over Haplodontium Hampe. Species traditionally classified in Haplodontium have been transferred to Mielichhoferia, and species traditionally included in Mielichhoferia need a different generic name. Schizymenium Harv. ex Hook. is the earliest name available. Forty-one new combinations are made in Schizymenium. A key to the three genera of the Bryaceae subfamily Mielichhoferioideae is provided.
10.2307/3242964|Dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) appears to be a useful extractant of chlorophyll in mosses. DMSO extracts and acetone extracts of gametophytic shoots of Grimmia laevigata (Brid.) Brid. gave similar estimates of chlorophyll content. Advantages of DMSO included ease of preparation and ability to extract desiccated samples without hydration. However, proper incubation period for extraction in DMSO differed among five species of mosses and among long-term experimental treatments of one species. This suggests that the time course of extraction must be determined for each species and for different populations within species. DMSO extracts were not more stable than acetone extracts.
10.2307/3242047| A quantitative analysis of gametophyte characters of Tomenthypnum falcifolium (Ren. ex Nichols) Tuomikoski in Ahti and Fagerstn and T. nitens (Hedw.) Loeske shows significant differences in certain measurements of leaf length and leaf shape. These differences are still present in mixed collections of the two species. Tomenthypnum falcifolium appears to be endemic to the boreal and sub-arctic zones of North America. Quantitative ecological analyses, along with field observations, in west-central Canada show that Tomenthypnum falcifolium occurs in weakly minerotrophic areas (poor fens) forming hummocks with Sphagnum angustifolium (Russ.) C. Jens. and S. magellanicum Brid., while T. nitens occurs in minerotrophic to strongly minerotrophic areas (rich fens) forming lawns and small hummocks often in association with Sphagnum warnstorfii Russ. and other 'brown mosses'. 
10.2307/3241593|Twenty-four species, one variety, and the genera Lepraria and Sporastatia are reported for the first time from New Mexico.
41289770|The new lichen species Syncesia indica is described from southern India and is characterized by stromatoid ascomata, 3-septate small ascospores, and presence of protocetraric acid and traces of roccellic acid. The new taxon grows on tree trunk in evergreen forest in Shradighat regions of Karnataka. A key of all species included in the genus is provided.
10.2307/3242222|Some North American riparian populations of Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid. are characterized by filamentous propagula that are borne most abundantly on stems of sterile plants. The plants are similar to the type of C. dimorphus Philib., which the authors consider a synonym of the polymorphic C. purpureus.
10.2307/3241624|One variety, thirty-two species, and the genera Biatorella and Psoroma are reported for the first time from Arizona.
10.2307/3243620|Spatial autocorrelation analysis was applied to natural populations of monoecious Splachnum ampullaceum and dioecious S. sphaericum from Isle Royale, Michigan. Male and female gametophores of both species are highly clumped, resulting in locally biased sex ratios. In our study populations, ratios were typically biased 2:1 in favor of females. Directed dispersal of spores, which could produce such patterns, is rejected as an explanation for significant spatial autocorrelation because the unique spore dispersal mechanism of Splachnum ensures that both sexes will be dispersed to any given point. Moreover, in S. ampullaceum, protenema from single spores have the ability to produce either male or female shoots. In experimental cultures of S. ampullaceum, S. sphaericum, and S. rubrum, low light, pH, and nutrition favored production of males over females. Therefore, preferential production of male or female gametophores in appropriate microhabitats may be responsible for the clumping of the sexes observed in natural populations. Estimation of neighborhood sizes and areas in S. ampullaceum and S. sphaericum indicated that populations of both species were panmictic. Frequency distributions of minimum gamete dispersal distances were strongly leptokurtic and skewed right. Average minimum gamete dispersal distances in both species were very short, averaging less than 5 mm.
10.2307/3243522|Fissidens allenianus sp. nov., F. dendrophilus sp. nov., F. microcarpus Mitt., and F. radicans Mont. are described and illustrated. Fissidens radicans ranges from the West Indies and Mexico into South America and does not occur in the United States. North American populations and others in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies-formerly known as F. radicans-are described as F. allenianus. Fissidens dendrophilus is restricted to southeastern Brazil, and F. microcarpus is widely distributed in tropical West Africa. The F. radicans complex is unknown in Asia and Australasia.
10.2307/3244442|Fissidens appalachensis Zander has been discovered in Pennsylvania, some 450 miles (720 kilometers) northeast of its previously known area of distribution in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. The species differs from F. bryoides Hedw. var. pusillus (Wilson) Pursell in Allen in its usually larger plants, longer and comparatively narrower leaves, stronger limbidia, percurrent costae, and infrequently bistratose laminal cells.
10.2307/3241495|Apparent photosynthesis was measured as a function of light intensity, temperature, and CO
10.2307/3243141|One hundred and six species of epiphytic lichens are reported from Greenland; 11 species previously reported as epiphytes from that country could not be confirmed; 56 of the species are obligate or common epiphytes, 28 are normally found on soil, mosses, etc., while 22 species are normally found on rock substrates. Twelve species are reported from Greenland for the first time.
20061066|Due to its high rate of homologous recombination, the moss Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) B.S.G. is used as a novel system to facilitate gene/function-analyses. Loss-of-function mutations are easy to identify in the moss, as the dominant phase is the haploid gametophyte. Regenerating protoplasts were used to establish different moss lines with ploidy levels of 1C, 2C, and 4C. Flowcytometric analysis of three haploid, three diploid, and two tetraploid Physcomitrella lines revealed that haploid and diploid lines were cytologically stable, whereas nuclei of tetraploid lines exhibited varying DNA-contents. The effect of polyploidization on the phenotype, growth, and differentiation of Physcomitrella was investigated in vitro. The growth of three haploid, three diploid, and two tetraploid genotypes was evaluated after four weeks of axenic culture. The effect of the genotype on the growth rate of plants cultured on minimal medium was statistically significant; in contrast the ploidy level had no effect. On full medium the effect of the line, as well as the ploidy level, were statistically significant. The dry weight per petri-dish after a culture period of four weeks, was 103-106 mg in haploid lines, 64-78 mg in diploid, and 19-32 mg in tetraploid ones. The effect of the moss line and the ploidy level on differentiation of buds and gametophores was highly significant. Tetraploid moss rarely developed buds and/or gametophores. Sporophyte induction was observed in haploid and diploid genotypes, however not in tetraploid moss. Twelve percent of the germinated spores increased the ploidy level in comparison with the parent plant. A reduction of the ploidy level from 2C to 1C was observed in 7%. Evaluation of older plants (11 weeks after protoplast isolation) showed that polyploidization often resulted in a reduced number of gametophores and a reduced colony diameter on minimal medium compared to haploid plants. More than 70% of the diploid plants had gametophores with phenotypic alterations. Only 1.4% of the diploid plants were indistinguishable from wildtype. Changes in leaf shape and multiple phenotypic deviations from wildtype are most likely indications of polyploidization; however, the unequivocal identification of diploid plants is only possible using flowcytometric analysis, because a multitude of different phenotypic changes were observed in polyploid plants.
10.2307/3242060|The range in distribution of Preissia quadrata (Scop.) Nees is extended to Tennessee. It was found growing on argillaceous limestone bluffs.
10.2307/3242425|Cololejeunea macounii (Spruce in Underwood) Evans, in North America previously known only from the collections of John Macoun from Hastings near Burrard Inlet, coastal British Columbia, Canada, is reported from Moresby Lake on Moresby Island, the Queen Charlotte Islands, Canada. Considerable confusion with regard to dates of collection and identity of type specimens has resulted from double labelling of individual specimens in Macoun's herbarium with conflicting dates of collection. The dates of collection are clarified, and it is established that the holotype is in Spruce's herbarium with an isotype in Underwood's herbarium.
10.2307/3242243| A brief summary of the long but intermittent study of Hawaiian mosses is given. The taxa distributed in the first 100 numbers of the Bryophyta Hawaiica Exsiccata are listed, with name changes indicated. Palamocladium wilkesianum var. sciuroides (C.Mll.) Wijk & Marg. is an ecological morph linked by transitional forms to var. wilkesianum and should no longer be recognized. 
10.2307/3241816|Twelve hepatics and 14 mosses are added to the known flora of Bolivia, based upon the senior author's 1972 collections.
10.2307/3242911|The genus Isothecium is represented in North America by three species: I. cristatum (Hampe) Robins., I. stoloniferum Brid. and, reported for the first time in North America from Newfoundland and Ontario, I. alopecuroides (Dubois) Isov. Isothecium alopecuroides is distinguished from I. cristatum by the restriction of quadrate cells to the alar region of the leaves, and from I. stoloniferum by the presence of leaf margins that are inflexed above the middle, entire below and denticulate near the apex.
10.2307/3241306|Barbula imshaugii, Bellia crumii, Blindia maxwellii, and Pohlia ochii are described as new from Campbell Island, New Zealand. A key to the species of Blindia found on Campbell Island is given.
10.2307/3240654|The bluish coloration in dried specimens of Metzgeria is associated with morphology; it occurs in two distinct groups of the genus, one with a tapered thallus, the other with dorsal gemmae.
3244825|The effects of four increasing levels of KH
10.2307/3243198| In 1883, C. Mller described 29 new species of arctic mosses; the types of the names are in the Krause collection from the Chuck Peninsula, easternmost U.S.S.R., and are kept in BREM. Type material of Schistidium andreaeopsis (C. Mll.) Laz. matches S. holmenianum Steere et Brassard. The species appears to be circumpolar. 
10.2307/3241567|Seventeen species of lichens are reported for the first time from Manitoba, including Bacidia populorum, only twice previously reported for North America. The genera Heterodermia and Opegrapha are new to the province.
20485791|Diagnosis and illustrations are given for Braunia squarrulosa. Relevant to the taxonomy of the species, three names needed lectotypification. A Schlechtendahl specimen at BM is the lectotype for B. squarrulosa. A collection by Ehrenberg (BM) is the lectotype for B. sphaerocarpa. The lectotype for B. liebmanniana is a Liebmann specimen located at BM. The last two names are retained as synonyms of B. squarrulosa. The worldwide distribution of the species is documented in Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica and Panama.
10.2307/3244474|Ten names in Fissidens Hedw. are newly placed in the synonymy of six accepted names of Fissidens. One new combination is made: Fissidens lagenarius Mitt. var. muriculatus (Mitt.) Pursell, stat. & comb. nov.
10.2307/3242592|Hypnella is a neotropical genus of four species: H. leptorrhyncha, H. pallescens, H. pilifera, and H. diversifolia. These species can be divided into two groups (H. leptorrhyncha-H. pilifera and H. pallescens-H. diversifolia) in which the members of each group are more or less spatially isolated. The familial affinities of Hypnella lie with the Sematophyllaceae. Neohypnella, differing from Hypnella only by its lack of a furrow on the dorsal surface of the exostome, is placed in the synonymy of Hypnella. A new lectotype for the genus is selected.
10.2307/3244015|Analysis of herbarium collections of Sphagnum capillifolium sensu lato from eastern North America indicates that taxa within the complex are easily distinguished by spore morphology, but there is considerable overlap among taxa in gametophyte morphology. Uniform common garden studies of gametophytes transplanted from the field, gametophytes raised from spores, and spores that developed on plants during the course of the common garden indicate that there is a genetic basis for three previously recognized taxa considered within S. capillifolium s.l. A woodland taxon, S. subtile, should be recognized as a separate species since it is easily distinguished by gametophyte and spore morphology, in addition to habitat, from the other open bog taxa of S. capillifolium s.l. The open bog taxa of S. capillifolim s.l. examined in this investigation, S. nemoreum and S. rubellum, exhibit considerable overlap in gametophyte morphology in the field and when grown in a uniform common garden. However, they may be distinguished on the basis of spore morphology, which was found to be little affected by environmental factors. These results suggest that the open bog taxa, recognized at the species level as S. nemoreum and S. rubellum by some taxonomists, are better recognized at the varietal level as S. capillifolium var. capillifolium and var. tenellum, respectively.
10.2307/3243273|Acarospora nodulosa (Duf.) Hue. v. nodulosa is reported for the first time from North America. This terricolous, squamulose/areolate lichen was collected commonly from gypsiferous clay soils and gypsum outcrops of the Moenkopi, Kayenta and Carmel Formations of Washington County, Utah, U.S.A.
3244136|The terricolous lichen Peltigera chionophila sp. nov. is described from the western cordillera of North America. It can be distinguished from other members of the P. aphthosa group by its even lobe margins, its uniformly corticate apothecial reverses, its well-defined veins that darken gradually toward the thallus centre, and by its strict occurrence in mountainous regions subject to heavy, prolonged snow cover. Comparisons of sequences of the Internal Transcriber Spacer of the nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat support the taxonomic distinctness of this species. A map of its global distribution is provided.
41289760|Contemporary taxonomists usually recognize a single species in Dumortiera, which is widely distributed through tropical and subtropical regions and extends into some temperate regions. Two subspecies, D. hirsuta subsp hirsuta and subsp. nepalensis, may be recognized, and both of these were thought to occur in Central America. We sequenced four loci, the nuclear internal transcribed spacer region ITS, and three chloroplast loci (rbcL, psbA-trnH and rpoC1) from 50 samples of Dumortiera across its geographic range to test for phylogenetic structure within the species and its congruence to morphological and geographic patterns. We also used light and scanning electron microscopy to examine morphological differences between accessions from Central America. Phylogenetic inferences reveal two highly distinct lineages: the first apparently restricted to Central America, and the second distributed across all the geographic regions sampled. This widespread lineage could itself be subdivided into several genetically and geographically distinct clades. The restricted Central American lineage contains plants that have a light green velvety appearance, due to an abundance of papillae on their upper thallus surface. These can therefore be distinguished morphologically from sympatric accessions of the widespread lineage, which are dark green, with a wide range of papillae densities (absent, few or abundant) on the thallus and usually with abundant marginal hairs. However, the wider application of these characters to lineages outside the Central American region has not yet been confirmed. We conclude that Dumortiera contains at least two, if not more, distinct species. The Asian epithet nepalensis does not seem applicable to plants in Central America, as the papillate morphotypes to which this name has been applied form an exclusively new world lineage. A thorough morphological revision of the genus, and reinvestigation of type material, is required.
10.2307/3242187|Evidence that lichenized blue-green algae are among the principal agents of N
10.2307/3241312|A scanning electron micrograph of a spore and an elater of Targionia hypophylla shows details of surface structure.
10.2307/3242723|Measurements of annual net primary production of Sphagnum magellanicum Brid., Sphagnum recurvum P.-Beauv., and Polytrichum commune Hedw. were 5.4, 6.1, and 7.9 g dry mass dm
20110839|Julien Harmand described four lichen species from Portugal. Two of those taxa are restudied here. As a result, the following synonyms are proposed: Lecanora manuelina is reduced to synonymy with Lecanora lividocinerea Bagl., and Verrucaria cordeiroi is conspecific with Julella vitrispora (Cooke & Harkn.) M. E. Barr.
10.2307/3243457|Trichothelium marianense Harada is described as new from Anatahan Island of the Mariana Islands, Micronesia. It is distinguished from all other species in the genus by dark perithecia and 3-septate, small spores.
10.2307/3243992|The neotropical flora shares with Africa about 334 specific and infraspecific moss taxa. Their disjunct range may be explained by an ancient land connection or by long-distance dispersal. Certain species may represent lineages whose taxonomic identity has been preserved for millions of years, but in species with rapid evolutionary rates the long-distance dispersal hypothesis is favored. An alternate explanation for the neotropics proposes secondary centers of dispersal from an ancestral continuous distribution in western Gondwanaland. Other hypotheses are inadequate because they concern themselves with few species or with portions of the general range.
10.2307/3240815|Collections of the foliose and fruticose species have been made from 19 stations in the eight counties which occupy the Piedmont Upland of Alabama. Ninety-five species in 21 genera are reported.
10.2307/3242092|Three hepatics, Anthoceros adscendens Lehm et Lindenb., Barbilophozia barbata (Schmid. ex Schreb.) Loeske. and Targionia hypophylla L., are reported for the first time from Texas. Other range extensions and distributional records of hepatics within Texas are listed.
3244688|Plant material from the Canary Islands similar to Plagiochila spinulosa (Dicks.) Dumort. has been identified as the Neotropical liverwort P. stricta Lindenb. The secondary metabolite profiles of CDCl
23321055|Stictis palniense is described as new to science from sub-tropical region of Western Ghats in southern India. The species is characterized by non-lichenized hyphal felt lacking chemical compounds, carbonized excipulum, and filiform, rather small, 90107  2.03.0 m, I ascospores.
10.2307/3241010|Keys are given for the identification of the 130 genera and 406 species of mosses known from the states of Washington and Oregon. In so far as possible the keys are based on vegetative characters.
10.2307/3240612|Nine species of mosses are reported from the Department of Cortes, Honduras, including Fissidens steerei Grout which was not previously known from Honduras.
10.2307/3243348|Seventeen gametophytic and five sporophytic traits were measured in North American and European (plus one Asian) populations of Mielichhoferia elongata and M. mielichhoferiana in order to assess morphological differentiation between the species and between disjunct conspecific populations. Gametophyte data were obtained from 65 populations and sporophyte data from 27 populations. The two species could be distinguished by leaf length, costa width, and cell size (length and width of basal and upper cells). Weak correlations between variation in different gametophytic traits resulted in poor resolution of the species by multivariate statistical techniques. North American plants of M. elongata had longer setae, capsules, and exothecial cells than their European counterparts. A matrix comparison of distance estimates between populations obtained from sporophytic vs. gametophytic traits showed that characters from the two generations do not provide congruent estimates of phenetic similarity.
10.2307/3242559|Hypogymnia physodes (L.) W. Wats., Peltigera canina (L.) Willd., and Evernia prunastri (L.) Ach. were grown in the laboratory in flasks to which had been added varying amounts of sulfur dioxide or hydrogen fluoride. After 65 days, the E. prunastri that had been exposed to 0.30 ppm or more SO
10.2307/3242341| Taxa in Bryoerythrophyllum Chen & Morinia Card. (Pottiaceae) in the New World are B. bolivianum (C.Muell.) comb. nov., B. columbianum (Herm. & Lawt.) comb. nov., B. ferruginascens (Stirt.) Giac., B. jamesonii (Tayl.) Crum, B. recurvifolium (Tayl.) Zander, B. recurvirostrum (Hedw.) Chen var. recurvirostrum, B. recurvirostrum var. aeneum (C.Muell.) Zander, B. recurvum (Griff.) K.Saito, M. crassicuspis (H.Robins.) comb. nov., M. ehrenbergiana (C.Muell.) Thr. var. ehrenbergiana and M. ehrenbergiana var. elongata (Wils. in Mitt.) comb. & stat. nov. The previously poorly understood species B. bolivianum, B. ferruginascens, B. jamesonii and B. recurvum are redescribed and illustrated. Sporophytes of B. ferruginascens are described for the first time. Bryoerythrophyllum jamesonii is considered a polymorphic complex with many synonyms. Notes on relationships, infraspecific variation, geographic distribution and nomenclature are given for other taxa. Globulina C.Muell., hom. illeg., is a valid name and is a synonym of Bryoerythrophyllum, but Seligeria sect. Globulina C.Muell. is a synonym of Globulinella Steere. Barbula andreaeoides Kindb. is a good species, not a synonym of Bryoerythrophyllum ferruginascens. Tortula herzogii is a nom. nov. for T. angustifolium (Herz.) Herz., hom. illeg. 
10.2307/3243669|Rhizomnium pseudopunctatum (Bruch & Schimp.) Kop. occurs in a white cedar swamp in Onondaga County, New York, U.S.A. This moss appears to be rare in the eastern and central United States, being known from only a few localities in Maine, Vermont, New York, and northern Michigan. A possible relict of past plant migrations, R. pseudopunctatum has been reported as a fossil in sediments from northwestern New York dated 12,100 years B.P. In addition, the Onondaga County site yielded R. appalachianum, R. punctatum subsp. chlorophyllosum, Plagiomnium medium, and P. ellipticum, the latter being known previously only from the extreme northeastern part of the state.
10.2307/3241232| A new depsidone is shown to be 4-O-demethylnotatic acid by thin-layer chromatographic comparison of its diazomethane O-methylation products with those of the known depsidone notatic acid. The new depsidone was found in 22 of 33 taxa that also produce a related -orcinol depsidone, hypoprotocetraric acid. Hypoprotocetraric acid-previously known in Ocellularia, Parmelia, and Ramalina-also occurs in Leptotrema, Phaeotrema, and Thelotrema. In addition, some specimens produced 4-O-methylhypoprotocetraric acid and notatic acid. The depsides that correspond to the four depsidones studied here are all known, and this complete depside-depsidone series can be viewed in terms of possible biosynthetic pathways. 
20110957|The intrathalline heterogeneity of chlorophyll a fluorescence (
41486741|The occurrence of Platismatia erosa in Tibet and adjacent regions is reported. The shape of (hitherto rarely found) apothecia and pycnospores (the latter observed for the first time) are illustrated and compared with those of European material of P. glauca. TLC analyses of P. erosa samples revealed two substances, hitherto unknown in Platismatia, namely pannaric acid and jackinic acid, the latter also found in fruiting material of Platismatia glauca from Europe. Two chemotypes of P. erosa are recognized: chemotype I with caperatic acid as main fatty acid, and chemotype II (found only once) with jackinic acid as main aliphatic substance.
10.2307/3244443| The purpose of this study is to identify the species of mosses that appear in disturbed areas within the Municipality of Bayamn. Thirty-seven species in 25 genera were found. The genus with the greatest number of species was Fissidens. Fissidens sharpii and Fissidens neglectus were not found in Puerto Rico previous to this study. Fissidens zollingeri was the most frequent species and was found at all study sites. This species is an indicator of disturbed areas. The number of species increases as urbanization decreases. Sporophytes were found in 18 species and vegetative reproductive structures in 7 species. Species found more frequently also contained sporophytes most frequently. Pleurocarpous species with the greatest number of collections were found colonizing the greatest number of substrates. 
10.2307/3241336|Neuropogon lambii, previously known only from the type collection from Mount Rainier, Washington, is reported from Glacier Peak, Washington, and its habitat is described for the first time.
10.2307/3243624|One hundred eighty-six lichen species have been identified from Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho. Seven species have primarily a western dry rock-grassland distribution pattern; the rest are best associated with arctic, alpine, and boreal floras. Eighty-one percent of the species have a broad distribution in North America; 19% are restricted in North America to the west and northwest. Factors contributing to the relatively small number of species are probably the altitude; cold, dry climate; and recurring fires leading to rather homogeneous lodgepole pine forests.
10.2307/3243604|Detailed ultrastructural analysis and diagrammatic representation of the blepharoplast in Treubia tasmanica reveal a morphology strongly resembling that reported for Haplomitrium. The major distinguishing features common to both include: 1) A very wide spline (with up to 104 microtubules, Treubia's spline is the widest reported for any bryophyte); 2) a spline aperture of the open type; 3) the aperture located on the left side of the spline midline; 4) the anterior basal body located on the left of the spline midline; 5) the left-divergent orientation of the anterior basal body; and 6) nearly total overlap between the anterior and posterior basal bodies. These same six characters exhibit sharply contrasting expressions in the three metzgerialian representatives similarly analyzed. The evidence presented for Treubia further supports the isolated position of the group and its elevation to ordinal rank. It also reveals an important affinity with the calobryalian line.
20110853|Thalli of Nephroma arcticum were transplanted between and within a high-elevation alpine heath (1100 m) and a low-elevation subalpine mountain birch forest (380 m) in northern Swedish Lapland and harvested after eight years. Statistically significant differences (P &lt 0.05) were found between control samples for dark respiration rates, photon use efficiencies (apparent quantum yields) and light compensation points (all were higher in the high-altitude population). The following traits were significantly affected by transplanting: (1) epicortex thickness, (2) upper cortex thickness in the low-altitude population, (3) maximum photosynthetic rates, (4) dark respiration rates and (5) light compensation point. Of these malleable traits, all reduce the differences between the controls although there seems to be over-compensation in maximum net photosynthesis and under-compensation in dark respiration rate of the low-altitude population. Conservative traits, i.e., those that did not change significantly with transplantation were: (1) thallus thickness, (2) algal layer thickness, (3) algal cell diameter and (4) light saturation level. Small, yet significant differences in anatomy and physiology suggest that an ecotypic differentiation was established although the two internal transcribed DNA spacers ITS 1 and ITS 2 showed no corresponding variation between the populations.
3244690|We investigated biomass allocation patterns in sporophyte-bearing and non-sporophytic plants of the perennial moss Dicranum polysetum Sw. from southern Sweden by comparing dry masses of various reproductive and vegetative plant modules. Assessing parental vegetative biomass is critical in bryophytes due to continuous decay of basal shoot portions. We propose a method to estimate the photo synthetically active gametophyte biomass at the onset of the current sporophyte cycle retrospectively. With this measure for vegetative plant size, the proportional investment in reproductive structures, reproductive effort, was 16% when sporophytes were produced, and 1.3% when perichaetia remained unfertilized. In sporophytic plants, vegetative apical growth and reproductive output (measured both as dry mass and sporophyte number) were positively correlated, and reproductive effort was inversely related to the mass of the annual segment preceding sporophyte initiation. The development of mature sporophytes was negatively associated with annual shoot segment and innovation size. Moreover, sporophyte development reduced the probability of future perichaetial initiation and the mass of new perichaetia. In sporophytic individuals, investments in innovations and reproductive structures were negatively correlated. Mean mass per sporophyte + perichaetium decreased with increasing number of mature sporophytes per perichaetium. These patterns strongly suggest that D. polysetum experiences a cost of sexual reproduction, that sporophyte maturation is resource limited, and that apical sinks compete.
10.2307/3243027|Fortunately or not, bryophyte species concepts always have been based solely on morphological criteria. To some extent, this has been due to a lack of information regarding the population biology of mosses and liverworts. Gene flow distances, which result from sperm and spore dispersal, are extremely short, suggesting the possibility of genetic divergence between isolated colonies. Electrophoretic analyses bear out these predictions, in most cases showing unexpectedly high levels of genetic variation in these haploid-dominant organisms. Two models of genetic population structure of bryophytes may represent ends of a continuum: (1) the Conocephalum conicum model, in which there are low levels of variation within races (which probably represent separate biological species), weak interpopulation differentiation, and no microscale heterogeneity, and (2) the Plagiomnium ciliare model, in which there are high levels of variation, strong interpopulation differentiation, and microscale heterogeneity. Bryophyte taxonomists must decide how to use information from studies of population biology, being aware of the difficulties posed by such phenomena as sibling species, autopolyploid species pairs, and convergent evolution.
10.2307/3243517| The type specimens of four species of Rigodium-R. toxarioides Broth. & Par., R. crassicostatum Bartr. in Christ., R. pterigynandroides (Broth.) Broth., and R. riparium Sehnem-are identified as species of Eurhynchium and Helicodontium. Rigodium toxarioides and R. crassicostatum are equivalent to Eurhynchium praelongum (Hedw.) B.S.G.; R. pterigynandroides, to Helicodontium pervirens (C. Mll.) Par.; and R. riparium, to Helicodontium complanatum Broth. 
10.2307/3242984| Axenic cultures of Asterella tenella (L.) Beauv., originally cloned from a collection made in Bastrop County, Texas, were grown on a defined medium under a variety of temperature and photoperiod regimes to determine the conditions necessary for inducing the formation of sex organs. Abundant archegoniophores were induced under conditions of short days and low temperatures: day-10 hr at 15C; night-14 hr at 10C. It was concluded that these temperature and daylength factors are required for the induction of sex organs in this species. 
10.2307/3243354| Calymperes subserratum Fleisch., described from Java, is reported new to eastern Malesia from New Britain, Papua New Guinea. This rare moss is also known from two collections from Mindanao, The Philippines. The distinctiveness of this species is reaffirmed and it is differentiated from C. serratum A. Braun ex C. Mll. and C. subulatum Bartr. The latter species is reported new to the Caroline Islands (Ponape) and to New Caledonia. 
10.2307/3243372|The genus Calomnion (Calomniaceae) contains nine species; four of these taxa are here described as new. Seven species have geographic ranges restricted to individual Austral, South Pacific, or Southeast Asian island groups. Two species are more widely distributed in Australasia and the South Pacific. The genus is divided into two subgenera based on derived morphological features. Patristically, the subgenus Calomnion is less derived than subgenus Nesocalomnion. Dispersal and diversification of the subgenus Nesocalomnion appears to have largely occurred within the past 30 million years, with dispersal from New Zealand northward to Fiji and then Vanuatu. Subsequent dispersal from either New Zealand or Fiji occurred to Lord Howe Island and then Norfolk Island and finally to Samoa and subsequently Tahiti. The subgenus Calomnion may have dispersed to New Caledonia, Australia, and Ceram within the past 20 million years, or the present day distributions may represent more relict distributions. The high level of endemism on relatively young South Pacific islands and highly specialized epiphytic habitat of tree fern trunks suggest strong dispersal abilities followed by rapid evolutionary change on individual island areas, all occurring relatively recently.
10.2307/3240671|Micromitrium Aust. (1870) is not a later homonym of "Micromitrium Spruce" (1867), the latter being a nomen nudum. Micromitrium Aust. (1870) has prioritiy and must replace Nanomitrium Lindb. (1874). The 12 appropriate new combinations in Micromitrium Aust. are made.
10.2307/3243563|A total of 372 species of lichens is reported from seven Canadian Arctic localities: three on the Ungava Peninsula and one locality each on Baffin, Cornwallis, Southampton, and Victoria islands. The majority are new to the localities. Arthonia atomaria, Caloplaca saxifragarum, Polyblastia melaspora, and Rhizocarpon anseris are new to North America. Amygdalaria consentiens and Umbilicaria cinereorufescens are new to eastern Canada. Two lichen parasites are reported. The new combination Arthonia atomaria (Lynge) Kilias is validated. Tuckermannopsis commixta (Nyl.) W. Weber and T. hepatizon (Ach.) W. Weber are new combinations.
10.2307/3243069|A new species, Bryoerythrophyllum sharpii Zand., is described from Mexico. Bryoerythrophyllum jamesonii (Tayl.) Crum sensu Zander is reevaluated, and a key is given to the species of the genus in Mexico.
10.2307/3240605|Oreoweisia mexicana from Guerrero, Mexico, and Hypnella jamesii from Costa Rica are described as new.
10.2307/3242644|Seventy-two species of lichenized fungi are reported for the first time from Arizona. The new combination Hypotrachyna polydactyla (Krog & Swinsc.) Nash is made, and this species is reported for the first time from the New World. In addition, Hypotrachyna subsaxatilis and Pyxine chrysanthoides are reported for the first time from the United States.
10.2307/3242571|Six species and two varieties of bryophytes are recorded from Manitoba for the first time. The occurrence in Manitoba of two species recorded in the literature but not in recent checklists is confirmed.
10.2307/3242621|Dicranum gregoryi, a new species in the Orthodicranum-group of Dicranum, Campylopus benedictii, Leptodontium viticulosoides var. exasperatum, and Brachythecium austrosalebrosum, are reported from Peru along with fourteen additional departmental records.
10.2307/3244530| A model was developed that classified and projected the distribution of seven different types of peatlands in the Mackenzie River Basin. The model was based on the relationships between bryophyte indicator species, the types of peatlands they characterize, and regional climate. The model used the presence, absence, and abundance of 15 bryophyte indicator species to classify 81 peatlands in the study area into seven groups. Abundance values were calculated for each of the indicator species along three climatic gradients-Mean Annual Temperature (MAT), Mean Annual Total Precipitation (MATP), and Length of the Growing Season (LGS). The percent cover of all species were then ascribed to appropriate combinations of MAP, MATP, and LGS. The result produced a matrix consisting of 4,560 grid nodes where each node was identified by values for each of the three climatic variables and the types of peatlands that could be found at that climate. An independent data set consisting of climatic and ecological values and vegetation cover for 115 sites was used to test the ability and accuracy of the model to classify and project the climatic distribution of the seven peatland groups. The model correctly classified 106 of the 115 sites and of those, correctly projected the distribution of all but five of the test sites. The model accuracy was  70% for six of the seven groups, and > 90% for three of those. The accuracy for the remaining group was 50% and errors were mostly caused by the failure to project the distribution of three of the test sites. Other errors include: the inability to classify lichen dominated peatlands; the inclusion of wet lawns in bogs into one of the groups which caused a southward extension of that group by approximately 200 km. The overall model accuracy was 88%. 
10.2307/3244455|Wardiaceae are a monotypic family of aquatic mosses endemic to the Western Cape province of South Africa. The family is often placed in the Isobryales, usually in or near the Fontinalaceae, although some classifications place it near Rhacocarpus in the Leucodontales. A number of features, including the fused columella-operculum complex and the sporophyte shape, seem at odds with such a placement. We use a molecular data set comprising nuclear-encoded 18s rRNA and chloroplast-encoded rps4 gene sequences to address this problem. Parsimony analyses provide very strong support for the inclusion of Wardia among the haplolepideae, and in the rps4 and combined analyses, there is some support for a sister group relationship with Blindia (Seligeriaceae). This placement is in agreement with features of gametophyte and sporophyte morphology as well as with habitat. An s.e.m. study of the rudimentary peristome of Wardia indicates that peristome morphology is also consistent with such a placement.
10.2307/3241249|A procedure for the visualization of usnic acid on TLC plates is described. The plates are sprayed with benzyl chloride and sulfuric acid and heated. Usnic acid becomes red.
10.2307/3244365|Five species of the moss genus Coscinodon (Grimmiaceae) are recognized from North America. Coscinodon yukonensis Hastings is here described as new. The distributions of Coscinodon in North America are explained by a complex combination of their affinity for acidic bedrock, the extent of the Cretaceous epicontinental seaway, the extent of the Wisconsinan Glaciation, and the development of arctic/alpine habitats during the early-Tertiary. Areas covered by the seaway restrict the distribution of Coscinodon species because of their affinity for acidic bedrock. Exceptions occur where Tertiary intrusive or pre-Cretaceous bedrock has become exposed creating suitable acidic and heavy metal and copper-rich habitats in otherwise calcareous regions.
20110874|The pattern of gemma/gemmaling ontogeny in the liverwort Cavicularia densa is described from its origin as a primordium within the gemma chamber to the formation of a juvenile gametophyte. Data were obtained from field-grown and axenically cultured plants using a combination of light and scanning electron microscopy techniques. The developmental pattern is characterized by the production of a discoid to ellipsoid, stalked gemma composed of distinct tiers of cells, the central rows of which terminate in latently generative margin cells which originate the occasion of plantlet formation. Gemmaling production results from a generative cell (either an adult apical cell, or a gemmaling initial that transitions into an adult apical cell) that arises from a lateral terminal cell subsequent to quadrant formation. Ultimately, the juvenile gametophyte typical of Cavicularia is produced through the activity of an adult cuneate apical cell. Throughout juvenile gametophyte production, subsequent repetitions of select combinations of primary division sequences along with cytological modifications may continue in the gemma proper. Comparisons with the pattern of receptacular gemma/gemmaling development in Blasia reveal that the fundamental pattern of ontogeny within the Blasiales composes the construction of a tiered gemma bearing latently, generative lateral margin cells and a quadrant system containing the production of a wedge-shaped generative cell responsible for gemmaling construction and ultimately the formation of a juvenile gametophyte through adult merophyte development.
3244717| The Peltigera didactyla complex comprises species of section Peltigera with laminal and submarginal soredia. Three species (P. didactyla, P. lambinonii, and P. ulcerata) and one atypical variety (P. didactyla var. extenuata) are currently recognized within this complex. Phylogenetic inferences of the entire Internal Transcribed Spacer region (ITS) and the 5 half of the gene encoding the large subunit of the rRNA reveal a robust structure within the complex. Under both the maximum parsimony and the maximum likelihood criterion, P. didactyla is resolved as a polyphyletic entity, whereas P. ulcerata, P. lambinonii, and P. didactyla var. extenuata are delimited as monophyletic entities. Peltigera didactyla var. extenuata appears basal within the group, whereas var. didactyla is nested within a clade that also comprises P. lambinonii and P. ulcerata. The polyphyly of P. didactyla is further characterized by the existence of populations that resemble var. extenuata, but differ by their brownish upper cortex. These populations, all from the boreal zone of Canada, compose a monophyletic group sister to the P. didactyla-P. lambinonii clade. For P. didactyla to satisfy a phylogenetic species concept, the var. extenuata is reinstated at the species level, and a new species, P. castanea, is described. Three populations sampled are characterized by unique sequences that may indicate the presence of additional cryptic taxa within the complex. A key to the accepted species is provided. The presence of P. lambinonii in Australia is confirmed and P. ulcerata is reported as new for Chile. 
41486725|In this paper we reassess 482 collections of the lichen genus Graphis from Everglades National Park using the recent world key of Lucking and co-workers as the principal reference. We report a total of 31 species present in the Park. Of these, three species, Graphis brittoniae, G. elevata and G. hinnulea, are described as new to science. In addition, the following eleven species are newly reported from North America: Graphis analoga Nyl., G. cincta (Pers.) Aptroot, G. chlorotica A. Massai, G. crebra Vain., G. dendrogramma Nyl., G. filiformis Adaw. & Makhija, G. furcata Fe, G. modesta Zahlbr., G. neoelongata Zenker, G. renschiana (Mll. Arg.) Stizenb. and G. supracola A. W. Archer. Each species is described and discussed based upon Park collections. Notes concerning some species previously known from North America are also included where new or interesting information can be added to the literature. Conversely, species well documented elsewhere where we have nothing to add are excluded from that section. Graphis chlorotica, also new to North America but collected from outside the Park, is treated here since the key would be incomplete with its omission. Photos of all 32 species are provided including the degree of excipular carbonization. A key is provided for all species of Graphis known to occur in Florida.
20110813|Study of the material on which E. G. Britton based the report of Orthotrichum shawii from California confirms this overlooked report. Diagnostic characters of the species are presented, and the differences between the known American specimen and those from Europe and Africa, are discussed. Finally, the differences between this species and those with which it has been confused are discussed.
10.2307/3243856| The Lecanora garovaglii group (subg. Placodium sect. Placodium) typically has inflated, sinuous and plicate lobes, and the upper cortex lacks distinct conical bundles of hyphae. The L. garovaglii complex itself, centered around L. garovaglii (Krber) Zahlbr. (syn. L. peruviana (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr.), includes material first described as L. cascadensis Magnusson (syn. L. nevadensis Magnusson), which differs mainly by disc colors and epihymenial characters often modified by light conditions and parasitism. As treated in this article, L. garovaglii s.l. also includes several overlapping cortical chemotypes. A second complex centers around two new species (previously misidentified as L. cascadensis or other taxa). Lecanora sierrae Ryan & Nash, found mainly at high elevations in California, and Lecanora pseudomellea Ryan, found mainly at intermediate elevations in the Northwest, are new species, treated broadly to include a typical medullary chemotype (fatty acids only) but also chemotypes containing in addition either pannarin or psoromic acid. 
10.2307/3241286|Three liverworts and 13 mosses are new state records from Arkansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. New localities for Venturiella sinensis in Oklahoma and Bryoxiphium norvegicum in Missouri are noted.
10.2307/3241615|The moss flora of southeastern Polynesia consists of 214 species, 90 genera, and 40 families, and is characterized as primarily an Indomalayan-Asian, secondarily Austral flora, overlain by an Oceanic and Endemic element. Macromitrium bescherellei nom. nov. is provided for Dasymitrium nadeaudii Besch. nom. illeg., Syrrhopodon moorae comb. nov. is provided for Calymperes moorae Besch., Trichostomum clavinerve comb. nov. for Weisia clavinervis Card. & P. Ward., Sematophyllum entodontoides var. moorei stat. nov. for S. moorei Bartr., and Entodon solanderi var. turgidus stat. nov. is provided for E. turgidus (Aongstr.) Jaeg.
10.2307/3241233|The checklist includes a listing of the genera and species of North American mosses present in the continental United States and Canada, the floras of Mexico and Greenland not being considered. In all, 1,170 species and 224 varieties and forms in 267 genera and 58 families are recognized. The catalog includes a systematic arrangement of the genera and families, an alphabetic arrangement of the genera, species, and varieties, and a list of synonyms and excluded species. Pseudoleskea julacea (Besch. & Card. ex Card.) Crum, Steere & Anderson is a new combination.
3244912| Using field emission scanning electronmicroscopy, hyphal surfaces were examined in six lichens, Lasallia papulosa (Ach.) Llano, Xanthoria elegans (Link.) Th. Fr., Peltigera aphthosa (L.) Willd., Stereocaulon depressum (Frey) M. Lamb, Umbilicaria mammulata (Ach.) Tuck, and U. cylindrica (L.) Duby and in material of the same species associated with pathogenic or saprobic fungi. In samples infected by each of Muellerella pygmaea (Krber) D. Hawks., Marchandiomyces corallinus (Roberge) Diederich & D. Hawks., Lasiospheriopsis stereocaulicola (Lindsay) O. Eriksson & R. Sant, and a Penicillium-like fungus, some hyphae were found that differed from those of the lichen mycobiont in size, septation, surface texture, or inclination to collapse. Anomalous hyphae were uncommon in some diseased lichens, in fact no candidate pathogens were detected in S. depressum infected with Arthonia stereocaulina (Ohlert) R. Sant., although extensive mycelia of L. stereocaulicola were evident in the same lichen. The extent of visible colonization by extraneous fungi was greatest in recently killed U. mammulata. 
10.2307/3242429|Experiments have been done on three members of the Bryaceae: Bryum klinggraeffii Schimp., Bryum coronatum Schwaegr. and Leptobryum pyriforme (L.) Schimp. At 20-25 C the secondary protonema of B. klinggraeffii produces gemmae; their initiation is correlated with protonemal age and growth. Under similar conditions the protonema of B. coronatum develops gemma-like bodies with a few rudimentary leaves, whereas in Leptobryum normal gametophores are formed. In B. klinggraeffii gemmae are formed at or above 20 C both in dark and light, whereas at lower temperatures (10-15 C) larger, lobed, green structures, as well as stunted gametophores, develop in light. Under the influence of kinetin (1.0 ppm) moruloid buds differentiate on the protonema, but with the decreasing concentration of kinetin gemma-like structures are produced. A previously formed young, green gemma develops into a stunted gametophore when treated with 1.0 ppm kinetin. In B. coronatum leafless structures resembling its rhizoid-borne gemmae are formed at 30 C in light as well as in dark; whereas in Leptobryum gemmae develop on protonemata and gametophores in the dark. Gemma formation in Bryum spp. appears to be similar to the budding response of protonemata. This shift in the pattern of differentiation is due to non-availability of low temperature and sufficient light. On the contrary, the dark-induced gemmae of Leptobryum fail to develop into buds under conditions favorable for gametophore formation, and kinetin has no effect on their further development.
10.2307/3242271|The high-mountain ascomycetous lichen flora of the spruce-fir zone of the southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, Tennessee and southwestern Virginia includes 178 fruticose and foliose species in 37 genera and 20 families, of which seven (4% of the species) are endemic to the Appalachian Mountains and 18 (10%) occur in North America north of Mexico, essentially only in the Appalachians, but are disjunct elsewhere as in Japan, Mexico or the American tropics. The overall distribution patterns of these lichens, which share phytogeographic relationships with both northern and southern floristic elements, support existing evidence that the southern Appalachians served as a refugium during the Tertiary Era. The continuously more moist, cooler climate characteristic of the higher elevations favors the maintenance of lichens restricted in North America north of Mexico to high-mountain areas of the southern Appalachians. Usnea confusa Asah., previously known only from Japan, is new to North America, and Parmelia producta (Hale) Dey is a new combination. The secondary natural product chemistry and keys to families, genera and species of high-mountain fruticose and foliose lichens are provided.
10.2307/3243568|The genus Mobergia Mayrh. & Sheard is characterized by crustose thalli with plane to convex or inflated areoles, lecanorine apothecial characters, the presence of a phenocortex, norstictic acid, ascospores of the physcia-type with warted walls, and short, acutely or bluntly ellipsoid to obovate spermatia. The new genus is based on two species formerly included in the genus Rinodina (Ach.) Gray-M. angelica (Stizenb. in Hasse) comb. nov. and M. calculiformis (W. Weber) comb. nov. Rinodina bolodes Tuck. ex Fink and R. dirinoides Zahlbr. in Hasse are synonyms of Mobergia angelica, and R. platyloba Willey in Fink is a synonym of M. calculiformis.
10.2307/3243515|Based on three collections made by W. D. Reese in Louisiana and Mississippi, Campylopus pyriformis is reported as new to North America. The hitherto known range included the subantarctic north to southern Brazil and western Europe. The North American specimens resemble those of the Brazilian population and therefore it is supposed that C. pyriformis belongs to the floristic element disjunct between Brazil and southeast North America, which includes four other species of Campylopus.
3244133|The patterns of cover and species diversity (richness and composition) of macrolichens, bryophytes, and vascular plants are described for a Canadian montane forest in an area where the forest is highly valued both for wood production and for the terrestrial lichen that is a vital part of the diet of the endangered woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou Gmelin). In 180, 6.5 m x 6.5 m plots placed in nine stands within a 375 km
10.2307/3240577|The detrimental influence of New York City on the Long Island lichen flora extends as a "city effect" up to 40 miles from the center of industrial Brooklyn. The results of transplant experiments with Parmelia caperata, transect studies of corticolous lichens in red-oak stands, and distribution analyses of various Long Island lichen species all lead to the same general conclusions. City-induced drought is regarded as acting on pollution-tolerant lichens close to a city center with air pollution acting over much greater distances in decreasing lichen diversity and cover.
10.2307/3242419|Antheridia of Funaria empty their contents differently from antheridia of Polytrichum, Atrichum and Mnium. In all these genera the rapid phase of sperm release is powered by a contraction of the jacket upon opening. But the slow phase of release in Funaria is powered by the swelling of the sperm mass, whereas in the other genera the slow phase is powered by swelling of a fluid in the antheridial chamber, by osmosis. The last of the sperms is pulled from the chamber by the cohesiveness of the sperm mass in Funaria, whereas the last of the sperms are pushed from the chamber by the swelling fluid in the other genera. Antheridia of Funaria can empty their contents into M sucrose solutions, whereas antheridia of the other genera can not.
10.2307/3241015|Acaulon schimperianum, a heretofore poorly understood moss, is redescribed and illustrated from typical material. Its distribution includes northeastern Mexico and the central and southwestern United States north to Iowa.
10.2307/3241517|The special moss exhibition staged by the National Science Museum and the Hattori Botanical Laboratory was held during 16 May to 6 June 1971. The extensive exhibit entirely devoted to bryophytes seems to be the first attempt of this sort, and visitors to the exhibition numbered 64,391 during the three weeks. The display contained eight separate themes, and by great efforts the numerous living materials were maintained.
10.2307/3242229|Aloina bifrons (DeNot.) Delgadillo is reported from the Chilean coast in the Province of Coquimbo.
10.2307/3242518|Eighteen species or races of the widespread and variable Parmelia pulla group provide the second example of chemosyndromic variation in lichens, a pattern first discovered in Cetrelia. The chemistry of the P. pulla group involves biogenetically related orcinol derivatives including the new depside oxostenosporic acid, for which the structure is determined microchemically, and two other new depsides tentatively identified as the 4-O-demethyl derivatives of divaricatic and stenosporic acids. Although the total chemistry of the P. pulla group is more complex than that of Cetrelia, the patterns of joint occurrences of orcinol-type depsides are similar and in both may involve partial enzyme specificities related to hydrophobic side chains on the phenolic secondary products. Four new species from the southern hemisphere are described: P. scabrella Essl. (South Africa), P. pictada Essl. (New Zealand), P. verrucella Essl. (South Africa, Australia, New Zealand) and P. subverrucella Essl. (Australia).
10.2307/3241641|A preliminary list of Samoan mosses, including 249 species, was compiled from the literature.
20061090|The neotropical moss Syntrichia bogotensis (Hampe) R. H. Zander is reported for the first time for Macaronesia on the basis of six collections from Madeira Island (Portugal). This species has previously been known only from tropical America. The principal distinctive characters that separate it from the two nearest species, S. andicola and S. norvegica, are discussed. The species is illustrated, its distribution is mapped, and its name lectotypified. A key to the Madeiran taxa of Syntrichia is provided.
10.2307/3240650|The new species Anastrophyllum tenue is described from the Bruce Peninsula, Ontario. It is most closely related to A. hellerianum (Nees) Schust., but it differs from the latter in its calciphilic nature, its leptodermous leaf cells, and its two-celled gemmae.
10.2307/3240693|Spanish material of Opegrapha platycarpa (Nyl.) Nyl. was found to contain erythrin, a typical roccellacean substance. This chemotaxonomic information tends to confirm a close relationship between the Opegraphaceae and the Roccellaceae.
10.2307/3244057|The genus Ptychographa is reported in North America from Oregon and Washington. Ptychographa xylographoides Nyl. is a lirellate crustose lichen that occurs exclusively on decorticate wood. The species is characterized by a dark brown to black exciple, simple spores, and a hymenium that is partitioned lengthwise. It grows at all levels in the canopy in old-growth conifer forests in the Cascade Range and has also been found on coarse woody debris in younger forests.
10.2307/3243643| Phacopsis is a genus of lichenicolous fungi distributed worldwide on members of the Parmeliaceae s. ampl. The genus is characterized using current concepts, and its delimitation and family position are discussed. Thirteen taxa are accepted and a key supplied together with new data on their host specificity and distribution. In this genus ascospore shape as well as color and amyloidity of the hypothecial hyphae proved to be major diagnostic characters. Phacopsis falcispora Triebel & Rambold, P. falcispora var. sipmanii Diederich & Triebel, P. lethariellae Hafellner & Rambold, P. menegazziae Triebel & Rambold, P. oxyspora var. defecta Triebel & Rambold, and P. oxyspora var. fusca Triebel & Rambold are described as new. Phacopsis oxyspora (Tul.) Triebel & Rambold and P. vulpina Tul. are lectotypified. Emended descriptions of P. oxyspora var. oxyspora, P. prolificans (Mll. Arg.) Triebel & Rambold, and P. rufa (Mll. Arg.) Triebel & Rambold and notes on other species of the genus are given. 
40982960|Photoperiod duration has been shown to induce reproduction in angiosperms and liverworts. In general, moss gametangial production has been considered non-respondent to photoperiod, yet has been insufficiently tested. Here, we tested the response of gametangial formation to day length cues in California populations of Pohlia nutans using controlled light levels and variable day length treatments. Surprisingly, we found that gametangia induction in these P. nutans populations responded to changes in day lengths (long-day to short-day) rather than constant short-or long-day photoperiod regimes, as has been previously reported in a few moss species. We discuss our results with respect to photoperiod induction of gametangia in mosses.
10.2307/3241949|Plagiochila cymbiformis Inoue from southern Chile is described as new, and Cheilolejeunea intricata, C. savatieriana, Kurzia mollis, K. setiformis, Metahygrobiella tubulata, Telaranea oligophylla and T. seriatitexta are new combinations.
20110775|The work reported here addresses two primary questions: (1) How much "moss" (a mixture of mosses and liverworts) is harvested commercially from forests in the Pacific Northwest (PNW) and Appalachian regions of the U.S.? (2) What is the commercial value of this nontimber forest product? Methods included surveying land managers, botanists and moss dealers, querying U.S. government databases, and interviewing people involved in the moss trade. Approximately 35% of land manager respondents issued permits for moss harvest in the last five years. These reported that permits were issued for an average of 4,009 (Appalachian) and 96,433 (PNW) air-dry kg/yr of moss over the years 1997-2002, with a maximum reported permitted harvest of 166,793 air-dry kg across both regions in the year 2000. Official U.S. Forest Service sources listed the maximum yearly reported harvest for these regions as 115,661 air-dry kg in 2000 (PNW = 71,534 kg and Appalachians = 44,127 kg) and official Bureau of Land Management sources for OR and WA listed the maximum permitted harvest as 54,978 air-dry kg in 2001. Yearly revenues from sales of commercial moss harvest permits were reported to be  US$19,650. In contrast, estimates of total harvests based on export data and assumptions about those data suggest that the mean yearly harvest for the years 1998-2003 was between 4.6 and 18.4 million air-dry kg (yearly minimum and maximum estimated at 0.9 and 37.4 million air-dry kg, respectively). Moss sales (domestic plus exports) are estimated to total between US$6 million and 165 million per year. The wide ranges in these estimates illustrate how little is known about the moss harvest trade. In combination with lack of information about the size of the moss inventory, reaccumulation rates, and species and ecosystem functions potentially affected by harvest, results indicate that policy makers and land managers lack critical information on which to base harvest regulations.
10.2307/3243584|In the feather moss community under mature upland Picea mariana in northern Ontario, four bryophyte species coexist over periods of decades. The bryophytes comprise a thick, dense carpet with more or less discrete patches of Ptilium crista-castrensis, Dicranum polysetum, and Ptilidium ciliare in a matrix of Pleurozium schreberi. A previous study showed that the four species occupy microsites which overlap in temperature, light, moisture, and litter input. We used three experiments to determine whether spatial pattern was attributable to microhabitat in existing microsites. 1) Individual shoots and 10 cm diameter colonies of the four species within one stand were transplanted reciprocally and grown for one and three years, respectively. Shoot growth was evaluated as elongation; colony growth was assessed as a ratio of final: starting biomass. 2) Colonies of Ptilidium from one stand were transplanted to three microsites in a stand from which the species was absent, and growth assessed as above. 3) A thick layer of spruce needle litter was applied to one of each pair of preweighed colonies, and growth assessed as above. All four species were cabable of surviving in all microsites currently occupied by others in their community, at least over three growing seasons. A single episode of heavy needle deposition enhanced growth of all four species. This suggests that spatial pattern is not due to habitat partitioning, but does not rule out slow competitive exclusion by vigorous/invasive growers.
3244946|A new species in the lichen genus Dirina (Ascomycota: Arthoniales: Roccellaceae) is described. It is similar to Dirina neozelandica and related species in the genus with immersed ascomata lacking a thalline margin. Dirina calcicola is only known from two specimens collected in 1898 by Roland Thaxter in Monroe Co., Florida, U. S. A.
3244845|Bryophytes are important primary producers in mountain streams and they should be protected against the adverse effects of the high levels of UV-B radiation typical of these environments. The accumulation of UV-absorbing compounds could be one of the mechanisms of protection. A survey of methanol-extractable UV-absorbing compounds (MEUVAC) was conducted for 14 aquatic bryophytes, 10 mosses, and four liverworts, from a mountain stream located at 2,000 m elevation. For four species, several populations were investigated. Absorbance spectra between 250 and 400 nm were obtained and the amount of MEUVAC was calculated per unit of both dry mass (DM) and surface area. Levels of MEUVAC and the absorbance spectra of UV radiation were significantly affected by species. The high levels of MEUVAC and the clearly humpshaped spectra in the UV-B and UV-A wavelengths (280-400 nm) that were found in the liverworts contrasted with the low levels and non hump-shaped spectra generally found in the mosses (except for Polytrichum commune). Sclerophylly and intraspecific variability only had a modest influence on the results. It may be concluded that the accumulation of MEUVAC might represent a protecting mechanism against UV-B radiation in the four liverworts studied, but rarely in the mosses of this stream.
10.2307/3241614|Four zones based on cover and species diversity of epiphytic lichens and bryophytes are designated for urban and suburban Winnipeg, Manitoba. Epiphyte cover decreases markedly towards the city centre, and there is a well-defined area almost totally devoid of epiphytes in the central built-up region. As known levels of sulphur dioxide are generally low in the city centre, other pollutants, especially emissions from gasoline-powered vehicles, e.g., carbon monoxide, ethylene, may be chiefly operative in the maintenance of this depauperate zone, with aridity associated with the heat island perhaps also important. Sulphur dioxide from oil refineries and the main city power plant may be locally important over smaller areas. The most city-tolerant species in Winnipeg are Candelaria concolor, Physica adscendens, Xanthoria fallax, Amblystegium juratzkanum, Leskea obscura/polycarpa, and Pylaisiella polyantha, with Lecania dimera, Lecanora impudens, Parmelia bolliana, and P. subargentifera among the least tolerant. Increase in soredia production, and decrease in apothecial production towards the city centre were observed in Candelaria concolor, Physcia millegrana, P. orbicularis, and Xanthoria fallax, and Physcia aipolia, P. ciliata, P. stellaris, and Xanthoria polycarpa respectively.
20485772|The lichen vegetation forming biological soil crusts is described for the first time for a semi-desert area of the Republic of South Africa (Knersvlakte, Namaqualand). Thirty-five terricolous lichen taxa were recorded. Fifty-two percent of the lichens are endemic to Namaqualand according to current knowledge. Squamulose and crustose lichens were the most common (over 60% of taxa) and most contained green algal photobionts. Three main communities were distinguished: 1) a widespread community composed by Collema coccophorum, Psora aff. crenata, Placidium tenellum and P. squamulosum; 2) a rare community characterized by foliose lichens belonging to Xanthoparmelia, Neofuscelia and Paraparmelia; and 3) a rare, crustose community formed by Caloplaca sp. ("C. sp. 1"), Toninia sp. ("T. sp. 1"), T. ruginosa and Buellia sp. ("B. sp. 2"). The lichen taxa and vegetation of the study area are unique and are threatened by land management practices and changing climate.
10.2307/3244026|Native Himalayan highlanders of districts Almora, Naini Tal, and Pithoragarh widely use bryophytes as medicine, insect repellents, pads, stuffing, packing, chinking material, door coverings, and smoke filters in the Kumaun region of Northwest Himalaya. Several of these uses, such as door covers, smoke filters, and insect repellents, are reported here for the first time.
10.2307/3241279|The development and structure of internal cephalodia were investigated in the following representatives of Lobaria sect. Lobaria: L. amplissima, L. erosa, L. linita, L. lobulifera, L. oregana, L. pulmonaria, and L. quercizans. Cephalodia originate from Nostoc cells in contact with the lower cortex of the host thallus. The mycobiont actively envelopes the alga and incorporates it into the thallus either by an intrusive or nonintrusive mechanism. The thickness of the thallus determines whether the developing cephalodium will be of the superior or the inferior type, the former growing upward through the medulla and inhibiting the green algae in the algal layer. Species with large, loosely attached, reticulately veined thalli have well developed superior and/or inferior cephalodia. Species with smaller, more closely attached thalli lack superior cephalodia and exhibit fewer, less well developed, inferior cephalodia. Cephalodial Nostoc may be of advantage to the host mycobiont by supplying nitrogenous compounds and an alternative carbohydrate source.
10.2307/3242446|Thirteen families, 19 genera, 19 species, 6 subspecies, 12 varieties and one forma of hepaticae are reported from Rocky Mountain National Park, north-central Colorado. Lepidozia reptans (L.) Dum., Lophozia obtusa (Lindb.) Evans, L. opacifolia Culm., L. ventricosa var. silvicola (Buch) Jones, Marsupella sphacelata fo. media (Gieseke) Schust. and Riccardia multifida (L.) S. Gray var. multifida are reported new to Colorado.
10.2307/3241756|Fifty-two species of leafy hepatics are reported from the Anaconda-Pintlar Wilderness, Montana. Three are new to the state.
20110840|Sphagnum oregonense is described as a new species in section Subsecunda from the state of Oregon, U.S.A. It differs from other North America Subsecunda in lacking commissural pores on either surface of the branch leaf hyaline cells, having instead as many as five free pores on the convex surface of the hyaline cells.
40732283|Lichenostigma saxicola, growing on silicate rocks and lichens, is described from southern California from both the Sonoran and Mojave deserts as well as from the Santa Monica Mountains on the coast. The species belongs to the subgenus Lichenostigma, has a non-amyloid centrum, and dark one-septate ascospores, 10-12 X 5-6 m, cells equal or not, constricted at the septum, the walls of over-mature ascospores becoming granular-verrucose. The species is considered facultatively lichenicolous, not host specific, and is pathogenic.
10.2307/3244508| The new lichenized ascomycete species Lecanora comonduensis is described from Mxico (Baja California Sur and Chihuahua) and Arizona, U.S.A. It belongs to a small group of Lecanorae with sunken apothecia and is unique in possessing a profusion of crystals in the medulla and amphithecium, as occurs in a more limited way in the amphithecium of the Lecanora subfusca group. Superficially it is perhaps most similar to Heppsora, but differs significantly from what monotypic genus in various characters, including its ascal structure. The new species contains atranorin and norstictic acid and is at least facultatively lichenicolous. 
41486720|A survey of epiphytic bryophytes within a tree was conducted in lower montane rainforest at 2400 m in the Peruvian Yungas. The Weinmannia sp. host tree supported 110 species (77 hepatics, one hornwort and 32 mosses). To our knowledge, this is the highest single-tree bryophyte species richness reported to date. We used Johansson zones (lower trunk, upper trunk, mid-crown, mid-outer crown and outer crown) to stratify our sampling and found that the greatest species richness and abundance was on the upper trunk and large branches of the midcrown. Hepatics, and the Lejeuneaceae in particular, were dominant in all five Johansson zones of the tree. The mid-crown had higher radiation intensity than the dark lower trunk while still having high relative humidity. Non-metric multidimensional scaling indicated the presence of four communities: an outer crown, a mid to mid-outer crown, an upper trunk and a lower trunk community. The outer crown supported only two moss species along with 35 hepatics, which included 17 high-light tolerant hepatics. The climate data suggested that this pattern was due to higher irradiation and exposure. More bryological work is needed in these poorly catalogued montane forests of the Peruvian Andes, which are under multiple threats that include forest clearing and climate change.
3244565|Debate over the synonymy of the European Plagiochila killarniensis and the Neotropical P. bifaria of P. sect. Arrectae has focused on differences in secondary metabolite composition. The broad morphological species concept of P. bifaria proposed in recent papers has now been tested by comparing nrDNA ITS1 and ITS2 sequences of P. bifaria populations encompassing several different morpho- and chemotypes from the British Isles, Tenerife, Costa Rica, Brazil, Ecuador, and Bolivia, with sequences of other species of P. sects. Arrectae, Rutilantes, and Fuscoluteae. Phylogenetic analyses demonstrate that specimens of P. bifaria form a well supported clade within Plagiochila sect. Arrectae. Sequences of P. bifaria from the British Isles, Tenerife, and Ecuador, representing the "methyl everninate" chemotype, form a well supported subclade within the P. bifaria clade. Sequences of specimens from Costa Rica, Brazil, and Bolivia are placed in the basal part of the P. bifaria clade. The data support a broad species concept of P. bifaria. The different chemotypes do not warrant distinct taxonomic ranks. Plagiochila centrifuga and P. compressula are treated as new synonyms of P. bifaria.
40732289|Two resinicolous species, Chaenothecopsis dolichocephala and Chaenothecopsis resinicola f are reported as new to North America and Chaenothecopsis nigra and Chaenothecopsis subparoica are reported as new to its eastern half. The questioned occurrence of Calicium adspersum in eastern North America is resolved with the identification of specimens collected in Maryland in 1909, as well as recent specimens from Maine and Tennessee. Mycocalicium fuscipes is reported for the first time since 1872, in New Brunswick; Chaenothecopsis norstictica, a species described from Georgia and Florida, is reported for Maine; Chaenothecopsis edbergii is reported for Nova Scotia and for the first time in the southeastern United States; the ranges of Chaenothecopsis brevipes and Phaeocalicium minutissimum are significantly expanded; and Chaenothecopsis thujae, a misnomer for Chaenothecopsis tsugae, is recommended for delisting from the North American lichen checklist.
10.2307/3243487|Adelothecium bogotense (Hampe) Mitt. is reported for the first time from continental Africa, where it was collected in the Uluguru Mountains in eastern Tanzania. The African material is described and illustrated, and the world distribution of the species is reviewed and mapped. The African record represents a significant disjunct extension in the range of A. bogotense, and it is suggested that the occurrence of the species in Africa and Madagascar has a long historical foundation.
10.2307/3241094|The lichen Peltigera canina is capable of exerting an inhibitory influence on the germination of seeds and the growth of seedlings of various grasses. It appears that grass species which grow in the same habitat as the Peltigera are particularly sensitive.
10.2307/3242113| Alectoria cornicularioides sp. nov. from Inner China is described. It has an isolated position in the genus. Alectoria indonesica P. M. Jrg. is reported from the Philippines, moving its northern limit c. 10. The hemiarctic species Alectoria nitidula (Th. Fr.) Vain. is reported as new to Japan from high elevations on Hokkaido, moving its southern limit in Asia c. 20. 
10.2307/3244076|The presence of an emersed capsule, an annulus, a central strand, and perichaetial leaf costal transverse sections showing a row of large, oval, ventral cells with thin upper walls and thickened lower walls, a central stereid band, and a dorsal cell layer consisting of small, ovate, thick-walled cells aligns Pleuridium julaceum Besch. with Astomiopsis sinensis Broth. The new combination, Astomiopsis julacea (Besch.) Yip & Snider, is made. Astomiopsis julacea is known from Yunnan and Sichuan Provinces, China, and Tokyo, Japan.
10.2307/3241965| Riccia duplex Lorbeer ex Mller thallus branches elongate rapidly in the vegetative phase and much more slowly in the reproductive phase. Slow growth and sporophyte formation are brought about by low nutrient conditions, in particular low nitrate availability. In such conditions increasing daylength reduces the time for sporophyte formation. Two out of four clones of R. fluitans L. and one of two clones of R. rhenana Lorbeer ex Mller formed archegonia when cultured on solutions providing low nutrient conditions. Antheridia were not formed on either of these two latter species under laboratory conditions. R. rhenana Lorbeer ex Mller is not known to be fertile in nature. 
10.2307/3242018|Total protein extracts from North Carolinian populations of Parmelia perforata (Jacq.) Ach., P. hypotropa Nyl. and P. hypoleucina B.Stein. were subjected to electrophoresis on acid polyacrylamide gels and the banding patterns were converted to numerical scores with the intensity of each electromorph being represented by a value on a one-to-five scale. Neither the hierarchy produced by sum of squares agglomeration nor the distribution of OTU's produced by the principal components analysis provided particularly strong support for the present specific designations, though some affinity among individuals of the same species could be seen. The data did support Culberson's (1973) taxonomy more than the previously used classical system. The observed interspecific differences were mostly of a quantitative nature.
10.2307/3242371|Encalypta brevipes Schljakov is reported new to North America from the southern Ogilvie Mountains, Yukon, Canada and the Alaska and Brooks Ranges, Alaska, U.S.A. Encalypta mutica Hagen is also reported new to North America from the Jasper, Mountain Park and Banff regions, Alberta, Canada; the Nahoni Range of the Ogilvie Mountains, Yukon and the Brooks Range, Alaska. Both species are described and illustrated. A key to North American gymnostomous species of Encalypta is included. SEM micrographs of spores of E. brevipes and E. mutica reveal significant differences in ultrastructure.
10.2307/3242980|The alga "Chlorochytrium" (Chlorophycophyta) has been found intracellular in gametophytic tissues of Bryum capillare Hedw., B. cf. radiculosum Hedw., Funaria flavicans Michx., and Tortella flavovirens (Bruch ex F. Muell.) Broth. Examples of the association are known in the United States from dune habitats along the Gulf of Mexico at one site in Florida and two in Louisiana.
10.2307/3243055|Twenty-six families, 67 genera, 145 species, and four varieties of mosses are reported from Lassen Volcanic National Park, California. Two species, Andreaea nivalis Hook. and Polytrichum sexangulare Brid., are new to California. Mielichhoferia tehamensis Showers, a recently described species, is endemic to the Lassen Park region.
10.2307/3243833|Two species of Rhabdoweisia B.S.G. are recognised for southern Africa: R. crispata (Dicks.) Lindb. is reported new to Africa and the distribution of R. fugax (Hedw.) B.S.G. is extended to include the eastern Transvaal. Original material of Bryum crispatum Dicks. in the Dickson Herbarium (BM) is selected as lectotype for the species. Illustrations, a distribution map, and a key to the species are provided.
3244572|The roles of bryophyte propagule sources in community composition and structure are poorly understood, but regeneration processes may be critical to the conservation of severely disturbed communities such as those in Acadian forests managed for timber production. Our research objectives were to 1) describe the compositions of the aerial diaspore rain and the buried propagule bank at two locations, 2) compare compositional turnover (-diversity) among assemblages (i.e., changes in composition across sample units), and 3) investigate potential temporal variability across a growing season within the aerial diaspore rain. A case study approach was used to 4) determine the potential recovery of two extant communities based on available propagules. Compositions of propagule sources were determined by emergence and compared to that of the extant community sampled intensively, i.e., within two grids (1 m
10.2307/3241863|Review of taxa comprising the Fissidens bryoides complex in eastern North America shows that they are mere variations of a structurally very diverse species, F. bryoides. Probable factors influencing the expression of the variations are indicated. Lectotypes are designated for F. viridulus var. brevifolius, F. exiguus var. falcatulus and F. texanus. Synonymy for F. bryoides in eastern North America is given.
10.2307/3241845|Lepidopilum subtortifolium Bartr. is reported from Mexico, and is described and illustrated. It was previously known only from the two original collections from Guatemala.
10.2307/3243463|A cladistic analysis of the 15 species of the genus Pinnatella Fleisch. (Neckeraceae, Musci) revealed 16 equally parsimonious trees. Semistrict (combinable component) consensus trees were calculated. Formal subdivision of the genus below the subgeneric level is not supported. In order to study the robustness of the cladistic hypotheses, decay indices were calculated for each clade, and bootstrapping was used to test support of individual clades. Significant support was revealed only for pairs of closely related species. The permutation tail probability (PTP) test revealed the data set to include significant hierarchical information.
10.2307/3241815| Bryomanginia saint-pierrei Thr., hitherto known from Mexico and Guatemala, is reported from southern Peru. The unusual structure of the costa in the lower part of the leaf is illustrated. 
10.2307/3243750|The preliminary study of some 500 moss specimens collected in 1991 from five localities in Guizhou Province, China, has yielded 16 genera and 61 species representing new additions to this little known provincial moss flora. Of these, 12 are new records for southwestern China and four are new to mainland China. Neckera undulatifolia (Tix.) Enroth is new to China (including Taiwan). Symblepharis guizhouensis Tan et al. is a new name proposed to replace S. breviseta Bartr., an illegitimate homonym, and Orthothecium hyalopiliferum Redfearn & Allen is reduced to the synonymy of O. intricatum (Hartm.) B.S.G.
3244920|A re-examination of populations of Aloina bifrons from the Mojave Desert of Nevada was prompted by observations of frequent sporophytic populations. Sporophytic populations are unusual for xeric dioicous species. Aloina bifrons, previously described as dioicous, was found to be occasionally rhizoautoicous. Ramets bearing perichaetia and ramets bearing perigonia were at times connected beneath the ground surface by single rhizoids, rhizoid strands, or by masses of rhizoids. Rhizoautoicy probably functions in increasing spore production in environments unconducive to fertilization.
10.2307/3243434| The lichen genus Siphulella (Lichenised Ascomycotina, Helotiales, Baeomycetaceae) is described, based on the single species Siphulella coralloidea Kantvilas, Elix & James sp. nov. The genus is characterised by a dimorphic thallus, apothecia borne on podetia, eight-spored asci of the Baeomyces-type, and simple, hyaline ascospores. Its chemistry consists of siphulellic acid, a unique previously unknown -orcinol depsidone structurally related to psoromic acid. Siphulella is endemic to Tasmania where it occurs on soil, peat, and stones in treeless vegetation in high rainfall areas. Its relationships with the other genera of the Baeomycetaceae are discussed briefly. 
10.2307/3243284|The crustose lichen Haematomma pustulatum, sp. nov., is a very common but always sterile epiphyte of angiospermous trees in the eastern United States and adjacent Canada. Although it appears to be closely related to H. elatinum, it differs in morphology, natural-product chemistry, ecology and geography.
10.2307/3244364|Four exclusively North American species new to science are described, Buellia muriformis, B. oidaliella, B. terricola, and B. triseptata. They are compared with related species such as B. penichra, B. oidalea, B. geophila, and B. triphragmioides, respectively. Buellia cedricola and B. subdispersa are reported from North America for the first time and B. tolucae from the United States. Distribution maps are given and a key to all North American Buellia species with pluriseptate spores is provided, along with comments on some of the species previously recorded from North America. Buellia cedricola and B. subdispersa are lectotypified and a neotype for B. tolucae is designated.
10.2307/3243546|Three estimators of abundance of cryptogamic epiphytes on tree branches in western Oregon were compared to biomass for individual species and all species combined. Percent cover classes were strongly correlated with biomass for all species, sample totals, and species totals. Length of the largest lichen thallus on a branch also was strongly correlated with biomass for most species, but the relationships were weak for some species. Nevertheless, maximum lichen length gave better estimates of total lichen biomass on a branch, and total biomass of a species in the whole sample, than did cover classes. Maximum width of the largest thallus also was strongly correlated with biomass in most cases. Any of these three estimators could be used as a rapid method for evaluating abundance of lichen epiphytes on branches. Cover classes should be preferred, however, on the basis of overall reliability.
41289771|We studied lichen photobiont diversity patterns of three epiphytic Nephroma species in a 900-ha boreal forest landscape using cyanobacterial tRNA <sup>Leu</sup> (UAA) intron sequences. Our aim was to investigate if there was a link between lichen species identity, reproductive strategy, and photobiont selectivity. We show high photobiont specificity and selectivity within the forest landscape: only five closely related tRNA <sup>Leu</sup> (UAA) intron genotypes were found from 232 Nephroma thalli. Two Nostoc genotypes were shared by N. helium and N. resupinatum, while N. parile associated with two different genotypes. One genotype was only found from some specimens of N. resupinatum. On a single tree trunk all thalli of an individual lichen species usually housed the same photobiont strain, and the lichen species that mainly dispersed with fungal diaspores (N. bellum and N. resupinatum) usually shared identical photobionts. Both patterns were attributed to a founder effect presumably caused by relatively low colonization rates between trees. The photobiont spectrum of the symbiotically dispersing N. parile indicates that it maintained its own cyanobacterial symbionts. Our study shows that mycobionts of the diverse Nephroma guild do not exchange their cyanobacterial photobionts at random, and that reproductive strategy is reflected in species photobiont choice.
3244866|We studied epiphytic macrolichen communities in northern and central California to 1) describe how gradients in community composition relate to climate, topography, and stand structure and 2) define subregions of relatively homogeneous lichen communities and environmental conditions. Non-metric multidimensional scaling was used to characterize landscape-level trends in lichen community composition from 211 plots. We found two gradients in lichen community composition that corresponded with macroclimatic gradients: one correlated with temperature variables and elevation, the second with moisture variables. Moist, warm plots supported more cyanolichen species, while warm but dry plots supported a diverse nitrophilous flora. Ammonia pollution, which was not accounted for in the analysis, may also explain spatial patterns in nitrophilous species and deserves further study. Cluster analysis and indicator species analysis were used to divide lichen communities into more homogeneous groups and identify group indicator species. Three groups of plots differing in geography, macroclimate, and community composition were defined: the Greater Central Valley group; the Sierra, Southern Cascades, and Modoc group; and the NW Coast group. Communities in the Greater Central Valley group were typically diverse and dominated by nitrophilous species, averaging 14 species and 40% nitrophiles. Cyanolichens common to this group were mainly diminuitive species from the genera Leptogium and Collema. Indicator species strongly associated with the Greater Central Valley included Melanelia glabra, Candelaria concolor, and Parmelina quercina. Communities from the Sierra, Southern Cascades, and Modoc group had the lowest species richness and total lichen abundance. Cyanolichens were absent, while nitrophiles such as Candelaria concolor and Xanthoria fulva were frequent. Indicator species included Letharia vulpina, L. columbiana, and Nodobryoria abbreviata. The NW Coast group had the highest species richness, cyanolichen diversity, and cyanolichen abundance while nitrophiles were rare. Indicator species included Platismatia glauca, Esslingeriana idahoensis, and Cetraria orbata.
10.2307/3244300| The species belonging to Lecanora sensu stricto with a dark hypothecium are revised. All species are basically tropical. Seventeen taxa are distinguished. Descriptions of the species and a key to the taxa are included. The new species L. atroanima Lumbsch, L. hypocrocinoides Lumbsch, and L. kalbiana Lumbsch are described and the new combination Tephromela khatiensis (Rsnen) Lumbsch is made. Lecanora melanocardia Vainio is reduced to synonymy with L. coronulans Nyl.; Lecanora atroaeruginosa Vainio with Vainionora flavovirens (Fe) Kalb; and L. kumaoensis Rsnen with Tephromela khatiensis. Several taxa are excluded from the group and tentatively placed in the L. granifera group and Vainionora. The presence of a dark hypothecium is considered to be of no taxonomic significance above species rank in Lecanora sensu stricto since no additional correlating characters were found. The problems of distinguishing this group of species from Vainionora Kalb are briefly discussed. The two genera differ mainly on the basis of conidial type. 
10.2307/3242878| Indusiella thianschanica Broth. & C. Mll., previously known from southern U.S.S.R., Mongolian People's Republic, Tibet, and Chad, occurs in North America in Alaska, U.S.A. Indusiella andersonii Delgadillo is a synonym of I. thianschanica. The related Peruvian monotypic genera Aligrimmia and Coscinodontella are considered generically distinct from Indusiella. Convergent features include the elaboration of laminal photosynthetic tissue such as occurs in Pottiaceae (some Pseudocrossidium, Tortula and Barbula species) and which is known in Grimmiaceae only in Indusiella. The highly disjunct occurrence of Indusiella in Alaska, outside its general range in mountainous desert and steppe regions of Asia and northern Africa, supports the hypothesis that more widespread steppe vegetation and aeolian deposits (sand deserts) occurred in Alaska during the cold, dry Duvanny Yar interval in late Pleistocene and that desert-steppe plants were more widespread in Beringia prior to climatic change and onset of the Holocene. 
10.2307/3243674|Patterns of community structure, and the distribution of acrocarpy and papillosity in mosses and fruticosity and light colour in lichens, are examined with respect to gradients of soil moisture, texture, and pH. The study is based on a collection of the terricolous bryophytes and lichens from 95 stands in the subarctic forest-tundra region of the Northwest Territories of Canada. The proportion of moss species to total bryophyte and lichen species increases with increasing soil pH and moisture and with finer soil texture; the proportion of lichens correspondingly decreases. The proportion of hepatics is not significantly correlated with any gradient. Within mosses, acrocarpous species are more numerous than pleurocarpous species throughout the region, reaching their greatest prominence on acidic, coarse-textured, dry soils, and in sites with low vascular plant species richness. The more stable, moister habitats favour a higher proportion of pleurocarpous moss species. Nonpapillose moss species numerically dominate in the study region, and there is no significant correlation of papillosity with either soil pH or texture. Although a significant decrease in papillosity occurs from dry to wet along the moisture gradient, it reaches a high of only 32% (dry-mesic). Most of the terricolous lichens in the region are light-coloured and fruticose; these characteristics vary little with respect to pH, texture, and moisture. Fruticosity generally decreases with increasing soil pH and finer texture. The significance of light colour in lichens appears not to be related to the gradients investigated here.
10.2307/3241063|Estimates of water content, diffusion pressure deficit (DPD), osmotic pressure, and turgor pressure under field conditions were made for both gametophytes and sporophytes of Dicranum scoparium. The relationships of these osmotic values to water content were determined. Dense, evacuolate protoplasts probably develop considerable imbibitional pressures at low water contents. Measurements of osmotic pressure and turgor pressure are probably not good estimates for drier tissue because of changes in imbibitional pressure with freezing. DPD gradients were found which indicate that water moves from the gametophyte to the sporophyte and also in the opposite direction. The gametophytes show a wide range in water content, DPD, and osmotic pressure; the sporophytes have a narrower range. Since no rhizoids penetrate the soil and since the water content of gametophytes decreases with the passage of time after rain, this moss depends primarily on rainfall for its water supply.
10.2307/3242716|With 47 localities, Tholurna dissimilis is now shown to be widely distributed in Western North America. Previously considered restricted to tops of krummholz or timberline tree-tops, it has been found also among tree-tops of a coastal lowland forest at an elevation of only 150 m above sea level.
23321022|The new species, Cheilolejeunea hyalomarginata (Lejeuneaceae) from New Caledonia, is described and illustrated. The species is easily distinguished from all other species of Cheilolejeunea by the hyaline denticulate margin of the leaf lobe. Further diagnostic characters include the entire underleaves, the lobular apex connate with 46 lobe cells, and the spinose, unicellular, strongly thick-walled lobular tooth with a very small lumen at the base.
10.2307/3244473|Syrrhopodon hongkongensis sp. nov. is described from Hong Kong, China. It is closely related to S. chenii, but differs in having strong, dense spines and papillae on both dorsal and ventral surfaces of the costa.
10.2307/3241219|Barbula fallax, Pohlia elongata, and Tortella tortuosa are reported as new to the Texas moss flora. New county records and several interesting rediscovered mosses are also included.
20110965|Symphysodontella siamensis Dixon (Pterobryaceae), previously known only from Thailand, is reported here as the first record of the genus to the moss flora of China. A description and illustrations based on the Chinese material are provided.
10.2307/3240678|Fifty-six species of hepatics are reported from the Bruce Peninsula, Ontario. Most of these species are reported from the area for the first time.
10.2307/3243755|Neckeropsis pocsii Enroth & Magill sp. nov. (Neckeraceae, Musci) from Mayotte, Comoro Islands, is described and illustrated. It resembles N. disticha (Hedw.) Kindb. in habit but differs in the generally wider leaf bases, more strongly serrulate to crenate leaf apices, slightly longer setae rendering the capsules fully exserted, and filiform post-fertilization paraphyses.
40732303|Elizabeth Fisher was born in Baltimore, Maryland in 1909. She obtained a PhD. degree in entomology in 1938 from Cornell, worked as an entomologist for several years, then as a bacteriologist. During the 1950s to 1980s, she was very active at her favorite hobby, collecting and determining bryophytes, becoming well known to professional bryologists of the time. She died in 2000 at the age of 90 and is buried in Baltimore.
10.2307/3244205|Three species of liverwort and one species of moss were tested for their ability to tolerate desiccation and subsequent liquid nitrogen (LN) exposure. Riccia fluitans and Helicodontium cappelare were sensitive to desiccation and required either abscisic acid (ABA) or encapsulation in alginate beads with a 0.75 M sucrose pretreatment for 100% survival through drying and LN exposure. There was little effect of ABA on Plagiochila sp. although drying and LN exposure were successful with encapsulation. With Marchantia polymorpha optimal survival through drying and LN exposure required both ABA and encapsulation. These results suggest that encapsulation cryopreservation, in some cases in combination with ABA preculture, might be used as a method for long-term germplasm storage for desiccation sensitive bryophytes.
10.2307/3240774|The new species Rinodina calculiformis is unique in being the only known subfruticose and umbilicate member of the genus. Its aspect mimicks white popped corn or irregularly shaped pebbles.
10.2307/3241366|Fissidens asplenioides Hedw. is reported from a second station in Mississippi and from adjacent Louisiana, over 300 miles from the nearest previously known locality. The new stations are well within the Gulf coastal plain.
10.2307/3243623| The new lichen product 4-O-methyloxocryptochlorophaeic acid from the Ramalina subfraxinea complex in New Caledonia is the first orcinol-type meta-depside with an oxidized sidechain, a feature common in para-depsides and depsidones. The chemical structure of the new meta-depside supports a recently proposed scheme for the biogenetic relationships of orcinol-type lichen products in which meta-depsides are derived by 3-hydroxylation and rearrangement of paradepsides. 
10.2307/3243029|Relationships between the ecological niche and species concepts are discussed by developing concepts of the niche and of character and species hypervolumes. Ecological data are best used to evaluate the biological/evolutionary significance of species defined by other criteria. Differences in patterns of ecological variation are as important for delineating species as are differences in the average or typical habitat. Data on both realized and fundamental niches offer useful information. A classification of nine gemmiferous Pohlia species summarizes more ecological than morphological information, although the classification was based on morphology. Combining P. annotina and P. camptotrachela results in a loss of ecological information.
10.2307/3243699| New distributional records of Fissidens species in the neotropics are documented: F. allionii Broth. (Brazil, Guyana, Panam, Per); F. brittonii Grout var. percurrens Grout (Mxico); F. diplodus Mitt. var. richardsii (Williams) Pursell (Guadeloupe, Panam, Per); F. neglectus Crum (Colombia, Dominican Republic, Panam, Puerto Rico); F. ornatus Herz. (Colombia, Guadeloupe, Panam, Venezuela, Trinidad); F. panamensis sp. nov. (Panam), F. scariosus Mitt. (Panam); F. sharpii Pursell (Colombia, Panam; Puerto Rico); F. subulatus Mitt. (Colombia, Panam); A lectotype for F. allionii is designated. 
20061124|Sun and shade samples of two aquatic bryophytes, the moss Fontinalis antipyretica and the liverwort Jungermannia exsertifolia subsp. cordifolia, were collected from a mountain stream and cultivated in the laboratory under two artifically imposed radiation regimes: control (only photosynthetically active radiation, PAR) and UV-B (PAR + UV-B). Samples were cultured at 2C for 78 hr under continuous radiation to determine whether the physiological responses of the two bryophytes to UV-B radiation depended on their previous field acclimation to sun or shade conditions. We also aimed to study whether the short-term effects of UV-B were similar to those caused by longer exposure. Fontinalis antipyretica was more sensitive to UV-B treatment than Jungermannia exsertifolia subsp. cordifolia, showing significant decreases in several physiological variables indicative of vitality:
10.2307/3241674| Twenty-five species of Parmelia sect. Melaenoparmelia are known from North America. Collema exasperatum Ach. and Parmelia elegantula var. americana Rs. are synonyms of P. elegantula (Zahlbr.) Szat., which is widespread in western North America and is also known from Argentina. Parmelia aspera Mass. and P. aspidota (Ach.) Poetsch are synonyms of P. exasperata De Not.; P. isidiotyla Nyl. is a synonym of P. loxodes Nyl. Parmelia albertana, widely distributed in the aspen parklands of central Canada, is described as new from Alberta. 
10.2307/3242453|Three species of Anthracothecium of the section Porinastrum described by Mueller-Arg. were found to belong to Thelotremataceae.
23321053|Anzia rhabdorhiza Li S. Wang & M. M. Liang is found to be a species new to science from Hengduan Mountains in southwest China. It is characterized by long and thick rhizines covered with spongiostratum, a central chondroid band in the medulla, and production of atranorin and divaricatic acid. The new species belongs to the Sect. Nervosae of Anzia.
10.2307/3242884|The newly found association of Usnea strigosa (Ach.) A. Eat. and the lichenophagous larva of the moth Zanclognatha theralis (Walker) is described. The possible biological role of lichen acids in the lichen-moth relationship is discussed.
10.2307/3241308|Fissidens kilaueae from the island of Hawaii, and Anoectangium rubrigemmium and Ulota cervina from Maui, are described as new. This Ulota represents the first record of the genus in Hawaii.
10.2307/3242566| Relictual communities of the coastal zone of Central Chile are classified and their characteristic vascular plants indicated. The forest "Bosque Las Petras" (3247S, 7132W) is broadly described and its bryophytes are for the first time identified. The habitat and geographical distribution of each bryophyte are given. Species of the following classes were found: Anthocerotae (1 species, for which Bosque Las Petras is its northernmost distribution limit in Chile), Hepaticae (5 species, 4 of which have this forest as their northernmost distribution limit and one as its southernmost limit in Chile) and Bryatae (4 species, 3 having this forest as their northernmost limit in Chile). 
10.2307/3241699|Lobaria lobulifera, which differs from L. erosa (Eschw.) Nyl. both morphologically and chemically, is described as a new species from the coastal plain of the southeastern United States.
43188733|Many alpine bryophytes rely primarily if not exclusively on gametophytic fragments for reproduction. The dispersal role of these fragments, however, has not been adequately addressed. The objective of this study was to determine the extent to which fragments disperse on alpine summits and the reproductive viability of those fragments. Airborne diaspores were collected from early spring snow deposits in 2008, 2009, and 2010 from the summit of Mt. Marcy, and from summer propagule traps placed on the summits of Mt. Marcy and Algonquin Peak in 2009 and 2010. All fragments collected were identified to genus and/or species, when possible. To test for reproductive viability, fragments were grown in nutrient agar under ambient conditions for a period of 17 weeks. To detect the presence of spores, collected debris was surface sterilized and cultured on separate dishes containing nutrient agar. A total of 6130 gametophytic fragments, representing 26 species, were collected. Collections were dominated by individual leaves (65%) and leafy branch fragments (32%). Up to 20% of fragments collected were found to be viable, with the majority of growth originating from stem tissue. In contrast, spore production was found to be uncommon to rare. The results of this study provide evidence that Adirondack alpine bryophyte populations are maintained by the production and dissemination of gametophore fragments during both winter and summer months, with infrequent spore production events, perhaps episodically when weather conditions are most suitable. Data also suggest that vegetative propagules may travel longer distances on these summits than originally predicted.
10.2307/3243567|Symphyodon is represented in the Americas by a single species, S. machrisianus (Crum) Buck & Ireland comb. nov.
20061146|Over 26,100 records of lichens present in 144 U.S. national park units were assembled from various sources into a database and analyzed. Within these 144 park units 2,435 species and 375 genera are reported, representing 63% and 74% of the North American flora, respectively. The park units are located in 41 states and Washington, D.C. The average number of species in a park is 104, but the median is 60, indicating there are many parks with a small number of species and a few with high numbers. Isle Royale National Park has the most species, 611, and twelve parks have only one species reported. The number of records of lichens present ranged from one for 25 parks, to 1,623 for Isle Royale. Physcia aipolia is the most frequently observed species, being found in 65 parks. One fourth of the park units are classified cultural resource parks, while the remainder are considered natural resource parks. This study was based on 453 sources, including literature citations, park reports and collections in the University of Minnesota Herbarium.
10.2307/3242517| All Campylopus species reported from Mexico are listed and critically revised. Campylopus mexicanus Thr. is a synonym of Camylopus flexuosus (Hedw.) Brid. and Campylopus tolucensis Bartr. is regarded as a variety of Campylopus chrismarii (C.Mll.) Mitt. The systematic position of Campylopus subturfaceus Card., Campylopus leucogaster (C.Mll.) Mitt. and Campylopus angusti-alatus Thr. remain uncertain. The last species is closely related to Campylopus chrismarii and is probably only a form of this species. Campylopus savannarum (C.Mll.) Mitt. subsp. bartlettii (Bartr.) Florschtz and Campylopus subconcolor (Hamp.) Mitt. are new to Mexico. The record of Campylopus subulatus Schimp. is transferred to Campylopus schimperi Milde. A key is given for all Campylopus species of Mexico for the first time. 
10.2307/3241639|A comparative morphological study of pseudoparaphyllia of the pleurocarpous mosses of North America reveals these vegetative structures to be taxonomically useful in many cases. They often have been confused with paraphyllia due to misunderstanding and inadequate knowledge. The two types of pseudoparaphyllia, filamentous and foliose, differ from paraphyllia primarily by their restriction to the branch primordia and mature branches. Although pseudoparaphyllia are infrequently used by the taxonomist it was found that they are distinctive in many species and are therefore of great value in moss systematics. Illustrations of many pseudoparaphyllia, and a synopsis of the occurrence of paraphyllia and pseudoparaphyllia in the mosses of North America are presented.
10.2307/3241071|One hundred twenty-five species of macrolichens are reported from Tennessee.
10.2307/3242866|Fissidens hallianus and Pottia lanceolata are reported new to Texas. One hundred and thirty-six new county records, mainly from the Edward's Plateau, are included in this report.
10.2307/3241141|Thirteen species of Fissidens are described and figured from Tahiti, Moorea, and Raiatea. Fissidens jaiorum sp. nov., is the first Pachyfissidens reported from the Pacific Islands. In addition, F. fautauae, F. taiarapuensis, F. mooreae, and F. aoraiensis are described as new. Fissidens nanobryoides is reinstated as a member of the Society Islands moss flora and the presence of F. zollingeri is confirmed. Fissidens clarkii, previously known only from Pitcairn, is reported as a new record.
10.2307/3242428|Glossodium aversum Nyl., a lichen new to the Venezuelan Flora, and G. japonicum Zahlbr. contain perlatolic and thamnolic acids.
10.2307/3240613|Ninety-one species of bryophytes are reported from northern Wayne County, north-central New York. Many of the taxa are new to the local flora and one moss is new to the state.
10.2307/3244175| We quantified the relationships of 93 forest floor bryophyte species, including epiphytes from incorporated litterfall, to substrate and stand age in Pseudotsuga menziesii-Tsuga heterophylla stands at two sites in western Oregon. We used the method of Dufrne and Legendre that combines a species' relative abundance and relative frequency, to calculate that species' importance in relation to environmental variables. The resulting "indicator value" describes a species' reliability for indicating the given environmental parameter. Thirty-nine species were indicative of either humus, a decay class of coarse woody debris, or stand age. Bryophyte community composition changed along the continuum of coarse woody debris decomposition from recently fallen trees with intact bark to forest floor humus. Richness of forest floor bryophytes will be enhanced when a full range of coarse woody debris decay classes is present. A suite of bryophytes indicated old-growth forest. These were mainly either epiphytes associated with older conifers or liverworts associated with coarse woody debris. Hardwood-associated epiphytes mainly indicated young stands. Mature conifers, hardwoods, and coarse woody debris are biological legacies that can be protected when thinning managed stands to foster habitat complexity and biodiversity, consistent with an ecosystem approach to forest management. 
10.2307/3243285| The genus Parisia is endemic to New Caledonia and consists of three species: P. neocaledonica, P. laevipila, and P. ciliata. Parisia laevipila is best distinguished from the other species by the smooth hair-points of its leaves. Parisia neocaledonica and P. ciliata are best separated by the differences in their apical leaf cell widths (17-55 m vs. 12.5-17 m). As first advocated by Fleischer, Parisia is best placed in the Dicranaceae subfamily Dicranoideae near Brotherobryum and Braunfelsia. 
10.2307/3241879|Samples of Anaptychia neoleucomelaena, Lecanora chrysoleuca, Parmelia praesignis and Usnea cavernosa were fumigated with nitrogen dioxide for six hours at concentrations of 0,1,2,4 and 8 ppm. Injury to each of the species was documented by a significant reduction in chlorophyll concentration after fumigation with 4 or 8 ppm nitrogen dioxide.
10.2307/3242308| Fissidens subulatus Mitt., unreported since its original description, is recorded from the western Amazon Basin in Rondnia and Acre. It resembles the African F. gladiolus Mitt. but is more closely related to the American species F. prionodes Mont. A description and illustrations are provided. 
10.2307/3242624|Rinodina calcigena (Th. Fr.) Lynge belongs to the R. bischoffii- rather than to the R. bicincta-group of species. It is most closely related to R. castanomelodes Mayrh. & Poelt but is allopatric with it. Rinodina endophragmia Lamb, described from the Antarctic, is a bipolar species and R. arnoldii Mayrh. & Poelt is also recorded from the Arctic for the first time. Rinodina endophragmia, now found to be widely distributed in West Greenland, is compared to R. straussii Steiner emend Mayrh. and to R. castanomela (Nyl.) Arnold. These species all belong to the Rinodina bicincta-group. Rinodina ochracea Lynge also has bicincta-type spores but is less widespread and has smaller spores with more darkly pigmented and refractive bands around the cells than R. endophragmia.
10.2307/3243625|On the basis of its gymnostomous capsules, lack of a central strand in its stem, costa with two stereid bands and seepy, calcareous habitat, Dicranoweisia calcarea Bartr. is transferred to Gymnostomum. The species is similar to the Asian G. subrigidulum (Broth.) Chen and G. laxirete (Broth.) Chen in leaf shape and in its smooth, firm- to thick-walled leaf cells; but differs in its decurrent leaf bases and a tendency for the basal leaf cells to be porose. Barbula jacksharpii is considered synonomous with D. calcarea. Since the eipthet calcareum is occupied in Gymnostomum, the correct name for this taxon in Gymnostomum is G. jacksharpii (Crum) Allen comb. nov.
10.2307/3243394|In Australia and New Zealand, there are four species of Schlotheimia. The correct name for the one, widespread Australian species is S. brownii Schwaegr. The second Australian species, S. funiformis Dix., is known only from one, unspecified Australian locality. Schlotheimia knightii C. Muell. is restricted to North, South, and Stewart Islands of New Zealand, while S. campbelliana C. Muell. is distributed on Campbell, Stewart, and South Islands, north to southernmost North Island. An analysis of regional character variation in four characters among the three common species indicates that each of the species has separate characters that can be correlated with latitude. Individual characters have very different patterns of variation among these three species. Distribution maps, a key, and detailed structural descriptions are given. Scanning electron micrographs reveal consistency of peristome features among the species, while spore distribution analyses show that three of the four species have spores with unimodal size distributions.
23321023|A new species of Scleropodium (Brachytheciaceae) is described from western North America. Initially recognized in a recent molecular phylogenetic study of the genus, Scleropodium occidentale B.E. Carter sp. nov. is very similar in morphology, ecology, and distribution to S. obtusifolium. A morphological investigation of S. obtusifolium and S. occidentale was conducted using 62 specimens assigned to species independently based on analyses of DNA sequences of nuclear ribosomal ITS and the chloroplast trnG region. Morphological differences between the two species are subtle, but include relatively robust and commonly spine-tipped stem and branch leaf costae in S. occidentale versus weaker and without a spine in S. obtusifolium, slightly longer lamina cells in S. obtusifolium than in S. occidentale, and a strangulate capsule in S. occidentale in contrast to the cylindrical capsule in S. obtusifolium. Fieldwork and herbarium study indicate that S. occidentale is common in California and is present in Oregon, Washington, Nevada, and southern British Columbia. All herbarium specimens of S. occidentale were previously labeled as S. obtusifolium.
10.2307/3242734|Mosses of Calymperaceae and Pottiaceae are very similar to one another in most respects, and there is no single morphological characteristic in which the two families differ absolutely. A list of contrasting characteristics demonstrates the blurred distinctions between the two families, and a key is provided as a guide for distinguishing Calymperaceae from Pottiaceae. Hypodontium is reclassified from Calymperaceae into Pottiaceae.
10.2307/3243873| 18 lichens and one bryophyte are added to the Galpagos flora, including the first report of the genus Flakea, a widely disjunct tropical species described in 1992. 27 lichens, 27 mosses and 5 hepatics are listed for Cocos Island. A comprehensive list is given of all species previously reported for Cocos Island. New reports are based on the collections of the author made on the Galapagos International Scientific Expedition of 1964. 
10.2307/3241861|Leptodontiella is described as new on the basis of the unique sporophyte. Additional collections of Leptodontium are reported from Peru. The sporophyte of Leptodontium brachyphyllum is described for the first time.
10.2307/3241729|Although previous reports of Mnium spinosum in North America are either erroneous or open to doubt, unquestionable material of this species was collected by the author and by James Kucyniak during the summer of 1948 in the vicinity of Port Radium, Great Bear Lakem Northwest Territories, Canada. The relationships of this species and the history of previous reports are reviewed. It is suggested that M. spinosum may eventually turn out to be more common in arctic America than previously suspected. This paper validates the inclusion of M. spinosum in the new list of North American mosses (The Bryologist 76: 85-130).
10.2307/3241339|Moerkia hibernica and Buxbaumia subcylindrica are reported as new to Virginia.
10.2307/3243197|Eighteen species are recognized in the lichen genus Psora in North America. Six species are described as new (P. californica, P. montana, P. nitida, P. pacifica, P. pseudorussellii, and P. tenuifolia), one is validated (P. tuckermanii R. Anderson ex Timdal), and one new combination is proposed (P. himalayana (Church. Bab.) Timdal). Two species are reduced to synonymy (P. concava B. deLesd. with P. crenata (Taylor) Reinke, and P. elenkinii Rass. with P. himalayana). Psora himalayana and P. vallesiaca (Schaerer) Timdal are new to North America.
10.2307/3243153|Hypotrachyna evansii Knox, H. habenula Knox and H. ligulata Knox from the north-eastern Transvaal are described as new. A close relationship is suggested between H. evansii and H. lividescens (Kurok.) Hale, but the former is pustulate and esorediate. The chemical consituents of H. habenula and H. fissicarpa (Kurok.) Hale are identical, but differences are emphasized in lobe morphology and spore size. Two other species of Hypotrachyna have been found to have the same medullary constituents as H. ligulata, and of these only H. thysanota has been reported from Africa.
10.2307/3242553|The vegetation of the Puhimau geothermal area was compared with that of the surrounding ecosystem. Very few species of the surrounding area were found with any abundance in the geothermal area. The center of the geothermal area is almost barren. Pockets of vegetation dominated by the endemic moss Campylopus praemorsus (C. Muell.) Jaeg. are scattered throughout the central area. The only other temperature-tolerant species present is Portulaca sclerocarpa Gray. Cladonia oceanica Vain. is commonly found growing epiphytically on the moss away from the high temperatures. The central zone is surrounded by an Andropogon-dominated grassland in which both C. praemorsus and C. oceanica are commonly fertile. No lichens exhibited any tolerance of high temperatures.
10.2307/3242572|Mosses are a widely used chinking material of log cabins in Alaska. The commonly used species are discussed, the advantages and disadvantages relative to fiberglass batting are given.
10.2307/3242528|Tetraphis pellucida Hedw. and T. geniculata Girg. ex Milde are distinguished by the absence and presence, respectively, of end-wall "papillae" of the distal portion of the seta, here shown by SEM photographs. A new descriptive term, scindula, is proposed to denote protruding end-walls of bryophyte cells.
10.2307/3240829|The new species Acanthocladium carlottae is closely related to A. tanytrichum (Mont.) Broth., a species of Southeast Asia. The new species is suggested to be one of several relicts of an extremely ancient flora that has persisted in portions of the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia.
10.2307/3241649|Fifteen species and one variety of mosses are added to the checklist of Alaskan mosses.
10.2307/3244391|The eastern North American endemic moss Leucodon andrewsianus (Crum & Anderson) Reese & Anderson (basionym: Leucodon brachypus var. andrewsianus Crum & Anderson) is recognized at the rank of species. Although perichaetia are present rarely in this moss, it is not known to produce perigonia or sporophytes; it evidently reproduces and disperses by caducous branchlets. A key is provided for the three species of Leucodon known to occur in North America, north of Mexico.
10.2307/3244546|The terminology for growth form, branching pattern, and position of the perichaetia has been inconsistently used in the literature. This terminology, used for the structural organization in Bryopsida, is reviewed, classified, and redefined. The following interpretations are proposed 1) Growth form is differentiated from life form. 2) Direction of growth does not necessarily infer perichaetial position, for there are prostrate acrocarps or erect pleurocarps. Pseudo-pleurocarpy is not considered a formal perichaetial position. 3) Cladocarpy is distinct from acrocarpy or pleurocarpy, and defined as perichaetia terminal on lateral branches with juvenile leaf development similar to that on vegetative branches. The perichaetial branches have lateral primordia that potentially develop subperichaetial branches. Cladocarpy is interpreted as functional pleurocarpy that has evolved in a number of independent lineages. 4) Pleurocarpy is defined as perichaetia terminal on lateral innovations that appear sessile and swollen along the supporting axes. The juvenile leaves are morphologically different from those of the vegetative branches. The perichaetial innovations lack lateral branch primordia and thus do not produce subperichaetial branches. These innovations may represent a type of heterochrony-a paedomorphosis in branch development. Pleurocarpy is restricted to the Hypnales, Hookeriales, and Leucodontales, including the Spiridentaceae and Racopilicaneae.
10.2307/3242803|Fifteen mosses are added to the flora of New Mexico while three are reported for the second time for the state.
10.2307/3241288|Five taxa of Strigula (S. nemathora, S. elegans, S. elegans var. antillarum, S. nitidula, S. subtilissima) and one of Raciborskiella (R. janeirensis) are reported from the Andamans. Strigula nemathora, S. subtilissima, and the genus Raciborskiella are new for the Indian lichen flora.
10.2307/3243834|Stenocybe clavata (Mycocaliciaceae: Caliciales s.l.) is described as new from Western North America. It occurs on the bark of Pseudotsuga menziesii and Tsuga heterophylla and ranges from Alaska to Washington.
10.2307/3243413|Scopelophila cataractae (Mitt.) Broth. is reported for the first time from Texas on a collection from an igneous substrate in Brewster Co., in Big Bend National Park. Small gemmae are borne on branching, green, protonema-like filaments in leaf axils of the Texas plants.
3244636|The current synopsis of Leucoloma Brid. nom. cons. is an annotated list of the accepted names that includes nomenclatural novelties, type citations, protologue data, and synonyms. The list includes 131 taxa with 118 synonyms. No type material was seen for five species and two varieties. One species is listed as a nomen nudum until the necessary nomenclatural changes can be made and is included here for completion sake. Another species is tranferred to Dicranoloma with two synonyms, whereas two species previously described as Dicranoloma species are transferred here to Leucoloma /Leucoloma onraedtii (Biz.) La Farge, comb. nov. and Leucoloma entabiense (Magill) La Farge comb. nov.]. A condensed alphabetical list of species, subspecies, varieties, and forms provide a ready reference for all accepted names and synonymy currently in Leucoloma. Each taxon has its subgeneric placement indicated. An additional alphabetical list of 106 excluded taxa with generic placement is included for a nomenclatural synopsis of Leucoloma.
20110858|The identity of three misunderstood and neglected cyanobacterial lichens from the southwestern United States is clarified based on type material studies. Anema dodgei is synonymous with Heppia despreauxii. Psorotichia segregata is identical with Lempholemma chalazanum. Psorotichia squamulosa belongs to the genus Gloeoheppia and the new combination Gloeoheppia squamulosa is proposed. The generic boundary between Gloeoheppia and Pseudopeltula is discussed and a key to the species of these two genera occurring in southwestern North America, Central America and the Caribbean is provided.
10.2307/3242470|The known Montana flora of thalloid Hepaticae consists of 26 species in 17 genera and 11 families. The following five species are reported new to Montana: Riccardia multifida (L.) S. Gray, R. palmata (Hedw.) Carruth., Lunularia cruciata (L.) Dum., Riccia fluitans L., and Ricciocarpus natans (L.) Corda. This catalog of taxa is based upon the study of 800 collections. The species belong to several floristic elements: circumpolar, boreal montane (26.9% of the reported taxa); circumpolar, arctic-temperate alpine-montane (19.2%); circumpolar, boreal-temperate montane (19.2%); circumpolar, arctic-alpine (7.7%); circumpolar, temperate (19.2%); circumpolar, cordilleran (3.9%) and American, cordilleran (3.9%).
10.2307/3240585|Forty-one taxa are reported as new state records from Arkansas, Illinois, Missouri, and Oklahoma. The phytogeographic significance of new records from the Boston Mountains in Arkansas is discussed.
3244569|In 1971, W. A. Weber described Buellia saurina from aeolian sandstone in the Dinosaur National Monument in Utah, U.S.A. In his description, Weber mentioned several characters that are rather unusual for the genus Buellia, especially a lemon yellow thallus and a violet-brown hymenium. Careful re-examination of material at ASU and the holotype from COLO demonstrates that the species does not belong to Buellia, but needs to be transferred to Rhizocarpon. The bright yellow pigment is rhizocarpic acid, a substance not known from Buellia. The asci of the specimens belong to the Rhizocarpon-type. Although the young ascospores are two-celled, they frequently become irregularly muriform with age. The violet epihymenial pigment that can be identified as atra-red, is also unusual in Buellia and currently only known from the taxonomically isolated Buellia vilis Th. Fr. The new combination, Rhizocarpon saurinum (W. A. Weber) Bungartz, is made.
10.2307/3240835|The first occurrence of the hybrid sporophyte of Weissia muehlenbergiana x W. controversa is reported from Lambton County, Ontario. Hybrid sporophytes and both parents were present in large numbers. The characters of the hybrid are intermediate between those of the parent species. All the observed hybrids grew on gametophytes of W. muehlenbergiana.
10.2307/3241422| Drummondia pursellii Vitt & Crum is reported new to the state of Nuevo Len, Mexico. This moss was previously known only from the type locality. 
10.2307/3240771|Sphagnum papillosum Lindb. and S. tenellum Pers. are reported as new to the flora of Greenland and their habitats are described.
20485777|We explored molecular data in order to establish the phylogenetic relationships of the Thuidiaceae. We sampled nine genera and 13 species of Thuidiaceae, and included representatives of 15 families that have been considered related to Thuidiaceae at some point. We used two chloroplast codifier genes (rbcL and rps4) and the rps4-trnS intergenic spacer. Our combined parsimony analyses retrieved a clade containing 12 exemplars of Thuidiaceae representing eight genera (Thuidium, Thuidiopsis, Pelekium, Aequatoriella, Abietinella, Rauiella, Haplocladium and Actinothuidium) but with the inclusion of Leskea polycarpa and exclusion of Hylocomiopsis making the Thuidiaceae non-monophyletic as currently defined, and the Leskeaceae polyphyletic. The name Thuidiaceae is retained for the informal "thuidioid" group of taxa. The Rhytidiaceae (Rhytidium rugosum) was found sister to the clade of Thuidiaceae s.lat and Leskea polycarpa. The rps4-trnS spacer added characters that improved resolution and may be of value for similar studies at family level in other pleurocarpous mosses.
10.2307/3241277|Fresh spores of Polytrichum juniperinum germinate rapidly under laboratory conditions. The pattern of CO
25614903|Caloplaca chelyae is described as new to science. It is characterized by its scant crustose thallus, spores (12-)13-15  (7-)8-11 m, with a narrow equatorial wall-thickening, (1.5-)2-3 m less than 1/4 the length of the spore. This new species, related to subgenus Gyalolechia, was found on bryophytes in the high mountains of the Canary Islands, in El Teide National Park (Tenerife) and La Caldera de Taburiente National Park (La Palma). Possible associated taxa are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3242930|Acid precipitation has been implicated as causing the loss of Sphagnum species, and thus of Sphagnum peatlands from the southern Pennines in Great Britain. Thus, the effects of pH, SO
40732267|Recent reconstruction of the phylogenetic relationships of hornworts has revealed novel hypotheses of unique common ancestries. The genus Megaceros, for example, was shown to be polyphyletic with New World species nested within Nothoceros. Here we present a sampling of most widely recognized species of both genera to provide a phylogenetic delimitation of Nothoceros and Megaceros based on the genes rbcl and nad5. The unique ancestry shared by Nothoceros and the New World species of Megaceros is confirmed. This clade, except for the New Zealand endemic N. giganteus is restricted to the American continent. The genus Megaceros is redefined to comprise only Asian and Australasian species. The three widely accepted American species of Megaceros, M. aenigmaticus, M. fuegiensis and M. vincentianus are transferred here to Nothoceros. The lack of defining morphological characters for Nothoceros along with its morphological diversity highlights the need for further taxonomic, morphological and ultrastructural studies of the genus.
10.2307/3244385|Repeated ecological assessments based on permanent plot data require sufficient data quality to detect a signal of change against a background of noise (sampling error of various kinds). We analyzed several components of error in the time-constrained method for sampling lichen communities used by the Forest Health Monitoring program: between-crew (Technicians), crew-to-expert, between-expert, and seasonal variation. Data were from the southeastern United States and Oregon. Two types of dependent variables were used: species richness and scores on lichen community gradients (responses to climatic and air quality gradients). Gradient scores were repeatable to within 2-10% for experts and technicians alike and did not differ between those groups. Species richness is much more difficult to estimate reliably. Despite relatively low species capture by technicians, the high repeatability in gradient scores demonstrates the statistical redundancy in information provided by various lichen species. These results imply that repeated assessments of species richness will contain considerable observer error, but that shifts in community composition may nevertheless be detected reliably.
10.2307/3241237|Gametophores of the moss Tortula ruralis were treated with sulfuric acid solutions at pH values of 1.0-6.0. The concentration of chlorophylls a + b decreased between pH6 and pH3 followed by a more rapid decline between pH3 and pH1. Chlorophyll a was more sensitive to acid than chlorophyll b. Oxygen production based on chlorophyll was relatively unaffected between pH6 and pH2, whereas photosynthesis based on dry weight decreased uniformly in relation to decrease in pH. Respiration was insensitive to pH values as low as pH2. Simulated acid rain appeared to effect a reduction in photosynthesis largely through acid hydrolysis of chlorophyll a.
10.2307/3242880|Ascospore germination of the crustose lichens Graphis scripta and Caloplaca citrina was observed in the presence of atranorin (ATR), vulpinic acid (VUL), evernic acid (EVE) and stictic acid (STC) on buffered media ranging in pH from 4 to 7. Caloplaca citrina spore germination was much reduced in the presence of VUL, EVE and ATR. Spores of G. scripta were also severely inhibited by VUL and EVE, but were not affected by ATR. Neither species showed significant germination reductions in the presence of STC. These results, and those of previous studies, demonstrate the allelopathic potential of lichen compounds in biochemically diverse lichen communities.
10.2307/3242978|Autoradiography and liquid scintillation techniques were employed to study food conduction in gametophores of Polytrichum commune Hedw. Exogenous treatment of mature leaves with
10.2307/3241753| Seventy-eight taxa of mosses, including 21 new to the country, are reported from Panam. 
10.2307/3243729|The moss Tortella tortelloides (Greene) Robinson is reported from the state of Wyoming. This, together with an earlier report from Hawaii, is one of two known intermediate stations between the extremely disjunct populations in the Arctic and Antarctica.
10.2307/3240998|Mnium nudum is reported as new to Japan from specimens collected in Nagano Prefecture.
10.2307/3243877|The epiphytic lichen Hypogymnia apinnata sp. nov. is described from the Pacific coast of North America. Although superficially similar to H. enteromorpha, H. apinnata is distinguished from that species both morphologically (in producing few or no marginal lobules) and chemically (in lacking medullary lichen substances). Range maps are provided for these common Pacific Northwest endemics.
10.2307/3244047|The systematic position of the lichen genus Eiglera is re-evaluated. Previously this genus was either placed in the Hymeneliaceae or, since its ascus type differs from that family, in the Eigleraceae. The conflicting opinions are based on anatomical and isozyme data versus the ascus type. Therefore, the ascoma ontogeny of this genus was examined to obtain further data, and the comparative anatony and ontogeny of Aspicilia cinerea, Hymenelia epulotica, Ionaspis lacustris, and, Lobothallia radiosa were studied. The ascoma ontogeny of all the taxa examined were rather similar, being weakly hemiangiocarpous, relatively simple, and having paraphysoids building the hamathecium of mature fruiting bodies. The ontogenetic data suggest that Eiglera should be included in the Hymeneliaceae. The taxonomic importance of the characters examined is discussed.
10.2307/3241118|Photosynthesis was measured in excised sporophytes of Polytrichum and Funaria with an infrared gas analyzer. Net photosynthesis was recorded for Funaria, but photosynthesis beyond the compensation point was not demonstrable for Polytrichum. The gametophytes of both genera show net photosynthesis, and the shapes of the light saturation curves for the gametophytes are similar to those obtained for their respective sporophytes. The distribution of dry weight within the sporophyte was followed during capsule development. In Polytrichum the weight of the seta decreases as the weight of the capsule increases. This is not the case in Funaria. These results establish the importance of seta reserves in the economy of the Polytrichum sporophyte during capsule expansion.
10.2307/3244308|Verrucaria igii Harada sp. nov. (lichenized Ascomycotina, Verrucariaceae) is described on the basis of a specimen from riverside rocks in western Honshu, Japan. It is distinguished from closely related V. aquatilis by larger spores, larger involucrellum, and brownish thallus.
10.2307/3240576|The South Korean flora of leafy Hepaticae consists of 123 species and 12 subspecies in 41 genera and 18 families. The catalog of taxa is based upon the study of some 5,000 collections. By photogeographic affinity the species belong to several floristic elements: an arctic-alpine element (2% of the species or subspecies), a Korean-Japanese-eastern North American element (2%), a North Pacific element (4%), a Korean-Japanese-European-western North American element (1%), a Korean-Japanese element (41%), an East Asiatic element (16%), a tropical element (12%), an endemic element (1%), and a widespread element (21%). With the exception of one endemic species, all of the leafy liverworts of South Korea also occur in Japan. In addition, 85% of the South Korean genera and 38% of the species or subspecies of leafy hepatics also occur in North America.
10.2307/3240716|Seven species of hepatics are reported as new to the flora of Texas.
10.2307/3241026|Thirty-two species were collected in West Fork, a canyon in north-central Arizona. Eleven of the species have not previously been reported from Arizona.
10.2307/3241235| The moss genus Cryphaea Mohr in Web. (Cryphaeaceae) in North America north of Mexico includes four species: C. filiformis (Hedw.) Brid., C. glomerata Sull. in Gray, C. nervosa (Hook. & Wils.) C. Mll., and C. ravenelii Aust. Cryphaea floridensis Crum and C. glomerata var. scabra Grout, both described from Florida, are conspecific with C. filiformis (Hedw.) Brid., which occurs throughout the Caribbean area and has not been preciously reported as such for the area studied. Cryphaea ravenelii Aust. is reported new to the moss flora of Arkansas, "the Carolinas," and Oklahoma. Descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps, and a key to the species are presented in addition to notes on phytogeography. 
10.2307/3243540|A distinctive form of Bryum bicolor, characterized by stoutly excurrent costae and abundant asexual gemmae, occurs on heavy metal-contaminated tailings of the Conrad Hill Mine in the Piedmont of North Carolina. Plants from two mine site populations, plus two other populations from Richmond, Virginia, were grown on three types of soil in order to determine the degree to which morphological traits, including the number of gemmae per plant, can be modified by substrate. All populations grew equally well in the mine soil, and there was no evidence that plants from the mine site populations were physiologically adapted for growth on the contaminated tailings. Leaf dimensions, costa length, and number of gemmae per stem were strongly influenced by substrate, although some differences between populations were maintained under experimental conditions. Populations also differed in the efficacy with which plants regenerated from gametophytic fragments.
10.2307/3241019|Brotherella tenuirostris (Bruch & Schimp. ex Sull.) Broth. is part of the Canadian moss flora and ranges from Ontario and Wisconsin south to Arkansas and South Carolina.
10.2307/3242145|An unusually rich collecting area in the Big Thicket region of East Texas yielded eight of nine species of Sphagnum now known to occur in the state. Sphagnum recurvum P.-Beauv. and S. molle Sull. are reported for the first time from Texas. Sphagnum macrophyllum Bernh. ex Brid., S. cyclophyllum Sull. & Lesq. in Sull., and S. perichaetiale Hampe represent second collections confirming earlier reports.
10.2307/3242032| Marsupella condensata (ngstr.) Schiffn., Scapania gymnostomophila Kaal., Scapania paludicola Loeske et K.Mll. in K.Mll., Riccia frostii Aust. and Lophozia ventricosa var. silvicola (Buch) Jones are reported new to British Columbia. Also, Lophozia opacifolia Culm. is noted to occur frequently in the mountains of the Pacific Northwest. 
10.2307/3241597| The widely distributed but only recently recognized northern lichen Parmelia substygia Rs. is reported as new to the flora of Wisconsin. 
25614878|During a revision of the genus Taxithelium, a new species was found from the island of Seram, Indonesia. The presence of collenchymatous exothecial cells, a resemblance to Radulina, but being a much smaller plant, lacking any papillae on the seta and having the alar cells much less developed and neither inflated nor colored associate it with Taxithelium. Multivartiate analyses support its infrageneric distinctiveness.
10.2307/3242026|Acrocryphaea B.S.G. is a nomenclaturally superfluous (illegitimate) name for Schoenobryum Dozy & Molk. Twenty-three new combinations are made in the genus Schoenobryum.
10.2307/3242165|Decapitation of sporophytes of Funaria curtailed elongation. Both cell enlargement and cell division were decreased in response to surgery. Benzyl adenine (BA) stimulated cell division in decapitated sporophytes, restoring much of the lost elongation in the axis. Greater recovery of elongation was obtained when BA and indoleacetic acid (IAA) were applied together, but in this case the resulting cells were of greater size than normal. BA seemed to have an important effect on prolonging duration of cell division in decapitated plants. In plants left intact, BA prolonged intercalary meristematic activity and postponed or suppressed capsule expansion. It is suggested that cytokinins may play an important role in maintaining activity of the intercalary meristem of an intact plant, and that high cytokinin level antagonizes capsule expansion in Funaria.
3244622|Bryoria spiralifera Brodo & D. Hawksw and B. pseudocapillaris Brodo & D. Hawksw are two rare maritime lichens that were described from a small number of samples. This study describes the habitat and investigates chemical and morphological differences between the two species in the Picea sitchensis and Pinus contorta var. contorta forests of the Samoa Peninsula, location of the largest known population of B. spiralifera. Bryoria spiralifera is well distributed (100% frequency), and B. pseudocapillaris is less common (10% frequency) in each of the two stand types. Both species co-occur on the same branches, and both species are most abundant in high exposure sites such as forest edges along sand dunes and large canopy gaps. In Pinus contorta var. contorta stands, which tend to have open canopies, these two species are abundant, both in the understory as well as the upper canopy. In Picea sitchensis stands with more closed canopies, these species mostly occupy the upper canopy. Thin layer chromatography and logistic regression support the original hypothesis that B. spiralifera and B. pseudocapillaris are separate species. Thin layer chromatography showed that both species have distinctive, unshared secondary products. A logistic regression model finds several combinations of morphology as strong predictors of identity. Bryoria spiralifera is variable in regards to color and pseudocyphellae, but many have spiraling pseudocyphellae, while B. pseudocapillaris is mostly pale, with long, linear pseudocyphellae.
10.2307/3242374|Xanthoria concinna Thoms. & Nash sp. nov. from Mexico, Lecanora collatolica Thoms. & Nash sp. nov. from California and Toninia conglomerata (Ach.) Boist. from Arizona are reported new to North America.
10.2307/3241247|Cytological observations were made in 10 species in 6 genera and 4 families of mosses. The chromosome numbers of 4 species are reported for the first time and in 3 species the counts are different from previous reports. The somatic chromosomes in 6 taxa are also studied for the first time.
10.2307/3243588|Eighteen taxa belonging to the Lecanora subfusca group that contain usnic acid in addition to atranorin are revised on a worldwide basis. The following species are described as new: L. alba Lumbsch from Australia, L. floridula Lumbsch from Florida, L. formosula Lumbsch from Australasia, L. neonashii Lumbsch from Mexico, and L. transvaalensis Lumbsch from South Africa. A xanthone containing population of L. wilsonii is distinguished as L. wilsonii ssp. xanthophora Lumbsch. Lecanora achroella and L. subflavicans are reduced to synonymy with L. achroa, and L. elatinoides var. straminea with L. elatinoides. A key to the taxa treated is included. After consideration of the morphological, anatomical, and chemical variation, it is concluded that the usnic acid containing species of Lecanora do not form a natural group and cannot be separated from Lecanora s. str.
10.2307/3242377|Results of the study of lichen collections from Punta Lara, Buenos Aires Province are presented. The genera Chiodecton, Coenogonium, Strigula and 17 species are reported for the Province for first time. Coenogonium interpositum Nyl., Physcia tribacoides Nyl. and Ramalina ecklonii (Spreng.) Mey. & Flot. fo. lobuligera Malme are new to the known flora of Argentina.
10.2307/3241942|After exposure to 1000, 1600, 2200 and 2800 roentgens of gamma radiation, some of the irradiated and control gametophores of Polytrichum commune Hedw. were dried in a desiccator, then sealed in moisture free jars for four months. Regeneration of desiccated material occurred in Knops' solution but not on Knops' agar. In many of the plants that received the three highest doses of radiation, regeneration and growth in height appeared to be rapid at first, then comparatively slow after several weeks. In the plants that received 1000 roentgens the amount of regeneration and growth in height was more constant throughout the period of observation.
10.2307/3242591| Tetradontium brownianum was found in the Parque Nacional de Conguillo, in the cordilleran zone of Provincia de Cautn. This is the second locality for the species in the Southern Hemisphere. 
10.2307/3243876|Specimens of six lichen species (Evernia prunastri (L.) Ach., Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl., Parmelia saxatilis (L.) Ach., Platismatia glauca (L.) W. Culb. & C. Culb., Pseudevernia furfuracea (L.) Zopf., and Ramalina farinacea (L.) Ach.) were maintained at 5 mol photons m
3244863|Several epiphytic bryophyte species (Anomodon attenuatus, Anomodon rugelii, Brachythecium oxycladon, Leucodon brachypus, Neckera pennata, Porella platyphylloidea, and Rauiella scita) have diminished frequencies of occurrence and abundances in second-growth and partially-cut Adirondack northern hardwood forests relative to old-growth forests. The occurrence and abundances of these species, all of which exhibit mesophytic growth forms and two of which (A. attenuatus and A. rugelii) are known calcicoles, are positively correlated with diameters of sugar maple (Acer saccharum) host trees. The mechanisms causing their specificity for large, old sugar maples hosts are not known, but their distributions may reflect interactions of their respective physiological tolerances with changing microenvironmental conditions on sugar maple bark as the host trees age and mature. We tested this "gradient in time" hypothesis by transplanting mature gametophyte mats on sugar maple trees ranging from 20-85 cm diameter at breast height. Furthermore, we tested this hypothesis at two sites, a mesic and a xeric forest stand, in order to assess the influences of meso-scale (stand-level) environmental factors on the micro-scale (individual tree-level) regulation of gametophyte growth. All but two of the 96 transplants remained alive after six years. Following an initial year of overall dieback, average cover increased 23% over the subsequent five year period. Tree diameter had no effect on expansion rates of any transplanted species. Only one species, Neckera pennata, exhibited significantly greater expansion at the mesic site than at the xeric site. Our data suggest that age-related changes in microenvironmental conditions of sugar maple bark do not have an important influence on the distribution of these "large-maple" epiphytes. Rather, factors such as dispersal limitations or establishment requirements of protonemata probably limit their distribution. Additional, well-replicated transplant experiments are required to determine the effects of micro- and meso-scale environmental variation on the establishment, growth, and reproduction of epiphytic bryophytes. We discuss implications of our results for restoration of epiphytic bryophyte communities in heavily disturbed forest landscapes.
43188727|The new species Astrothelium inspersaeneum and Diorygma longisporum are described from northeastern Brazil. These species were all found only in the Caatinga reserve Vale do Catimbau in Pernambuco. The Astrothelium is, according to current key characters, referable to the genus Trypethelium, but it is clearly a member of the Astrothelium conicum-group and thus described in that genus.
3244139|The genus Bryochenea is evaluated by a study of morphological characters from type and other herbarium specimens. The type species, B. ciliata, is taxonomically synonymous with Cyrto-hypnum vestitissimum; therefore, Bryochenea is synonymous with Cyrto-hypnum. Bryochenea sachalinensis, the only other species, has been treated as Helodium sachalinense by most authors. An evaluation of the generic and familial positions of B. sachalinensis, based on comparisons with Helodium and 12 other hypnalean genera, indicates that B. sachalinensis is sufficiently distinct to warrant generic rank. A monotypic genus, Echinophyllum, is described and the new combination, E. sachalinensis, is made. The combination of dry branch leaves that are catenulate, short and strongly unipapillose leaf cells, and lanceolate pseudoparaphyllia with laciniate margins and papillose basal cells support inclusion of Echinophyllum in the Thuidiaceae; however, the elongate paraphyllial cells and elongate apical cells of branch leaves are incongruent with Thuidiaceae and instead suggest closer affinity to Helodiaceae, Hylocomiaceae, or Leskeaceae. The closest match among these alternatives is with Helodiaceae, but there are sufficient differences in habitat, leaf areolation, and pseudoparaphyllia that the alignment with Thuidiaceae is considered preferable.
10.2307/3243871| A method was developed for culturing lichens in vitro both in undifferentiated cell aggregate stages and in thallus-forming stages. Cultures of both bionts were made from small thallus segments planted onto agar media in slant cultures. Contamination by foreign fungi or yeasts often occurred after about two weeks. Cultured lichen tissues composed of fresh hyphae and algae appeared after about four weeks. Undifferentiated cell aggregates were obtained after the initial growth of the planted thallus segments. Growth of these aggregates was strongly affected by different culture conditions. By using cell aggregates of cultured lichens, many physiological and biological experiments can be carried out. The effects of environmental conditions varied for different species of lichens. Undifferentiated cell aggregates, as well as the mycobionts of Cladonia vulcani cultured separately, were strongly adapted to acidic conditions. The mycobiont of C. vulcani grew at pH 2, while that of C. cristatella did not. Undifferentiated cell aggregates as well as mycobionts of Umbilicaria aprina from the Antarctic were strongly adapted to cold temperatures; all grew faster at low temperature (5C) than at moderate temperature (15C). Under conditions of very poor nutrition, undifferentiated cell aggregates formed new thalli. Thalli of Cladonia humilis, Peltigera pruinosa, and P. aphthosa formed after one year of culture on 2% water-agar. Primary thalli reformed in C. humilis were similar to the natural ones. The reforming thallus of P. pruinosa was nearly the same as that of the natural one; it was composed of upper cortex, cyanobacterial layer, and medulla. The lower cortex was absent as in the natural thallus. In P. aphthosa, the thallus formed with the cyanobacteria, but the green algal photobiont (Coccomyxa sp.) remained free-living, separate from the undifferentiated cell colonies and the thallus containing the cyanobacterium. The anatomical structure of the thallus was very similar to that of other species with cyanobacteria, but rather different from the natural thallus with green algae. The reason why only a cyanobacterial thallus formed on 2% water-agar media may be related to the continuously wet condition of the substrate, which was quite different from the natural habitat. 
10.2307/3242713|The distribution of species within the Cladonia chlorophaea group in southeastern Australia has been determined from a chemical examination of 148 specimens. The commonest species is Cladonia merochlorophaea Asah.; Cladonia grayii Merr. ex Sandst. does not appear to occur in the area studied. Cladonia homosekikaica Nuno is reported for the first time from Australia.
10.2307/3241875|The nests of twelve types of birds from the same area were examined for evidence of bryophytes used in their construction. A total of 65 species of bryophytes occurred together with other materials. In the nest of a Rufous-sided Towhee, the entire inner lining was constructed of Polytrichum setae.
10.2307/3242823| The pantropical fruticose lichen Roccella montagnei Bl. emend. Awas. is typified and the new species Roccella belangeriana Awas. is described based on material from southern India. 
10.2307/3243035|Peristome structure in Discelium nudum (Dicks.) Brid. has been the subject of varying interpretation. Scanning electron microscopy confirms that the peristome is double, consisting of sixteen vertically striate exostome teeth and a hyaline, warty-papillose endostome adherent to the exostome teeth. Transverse and longitudinal sections through capsules at various stages of maturity indicate that prior to deposition of the exostome and endostome the peristomial formula is 4:2(-4):4, but only the outer and primary peristomial layers actually contribute wall material to the mature peristome. The warty-papillose ornamentation present on the ventral endostomial surface is probably deposited by the matrix material surrounding spores in the endothecium. A taxonomic position for the Disceliaceae in the Funariales is confirmed.
10.2307/3242046|One hundred eighty-two lichen taxa are reported from a coastal lowland area on Devon Island, N.W.T. One hundred thirty-two of these are reported from the island for the first time. The comparatively rich lichen flora in this limited area is attributed to the wide diversity of habitats available within the lowland system.
10.2307/3243989| The genus Ropalospora Massal. (lichenized Ascomycotina) is comprised of five species: R. lugubris (Sommerf.) Poelt in Hertel, R. atroumbrina (H. Magn.) S. Ekman comb. nova, R. hibernica (P. James & Poelt) Tonsb. comb. nova, R. chlorantha (Tuck.) S. Ekman comb. nova, andR. viridis (Tnsb.) Tonsb. Ropalospora is characterizedby multiseptate acicular spores, presence of narrow, evenly thickened hyphae in the excipulum, and clavate asci with a tholus consisting of an inner amyloid zone surrounding the young spore mass, an outer amyloid zone along the inside of the ascus wall, and a less amyloid zone in between. A distinct ocular chamber is usually lacking. The presumably closely related genus Fuscidea Wirth & Vzda differs in having asci that taper toward the top, a conoidal ocular chamber, and unevenly thickened excipular hyphae with ellipsoid or rectangular lumina. The typification, morphology, chemistry, ecology, and phytogeography of Ropalospora chlorantha, which has hitherto been referred to Bacidia, are treated. The additional four species of Ropalospora are discussed briefly. 
10.2307/3243221|There are eleven cleistocarpous moss species in the Valley of Mexico. Seven taxa are new to the moss flora of the country: Uleobryum curtisii and Aschisma aethiopicum-with disjunct distributions in Australia and Angola, respectively; Acaulon muticum var. rufescens, Archidium donnellii, A. tenerrimum, A. alternifolium, Astomum muhlenbergianum, and an as yet undescribed species of Pleuridium. Archidium acauloides, Pleuridium subulatum, and P. sullivantii var. mexicanum are already known from the Valley of Mexico. A key to all these cleistocarpous mosses is provided.
10.2307/3241917|Lophozia heterocolpa (Thed.) Howe. is reported for the first time from northwestern North Carolina. This collection site is widely disjunct from the northern range of this species.
10.2307/3243666|The highlands of Chiapas, Mexico, harbor temperate moss taxa which are common at similar or higher elevations in central and southern Mexico. The tropical taxa are confined, for the most part, to lowland moist sites, but in Chiapas several of them reach elevations beyond 2,700 m. This moss flora includes 155 taxa which may be divided into five phytogeographical elements; the most important in terms of number of species are the Meso-American and the Wide distribution elements. Aptychella and Grimmia are new to Chiapas and Daltonia lindigiana Hampe, D. tenuifolia Mitt., and Orthotrichum trachymitrium Mitt, are new to Mexico.
10.2307/3241563| Dicranella riparia (H. Lindb.) Mrt. & Nyh. is reported for the first time from Greenland, where it was found on a fluvioglacial delta in the Angmagssalik District in plant communities belonging to the association Calamagrosto-Ditrichetum (all. Calamagrostion neglectae). This is the sixth locality known, and the first outside Fennoscandia. 
10.2307/3243548|Two measurement techniques were employed to evaluate the feasibility of using lichens as in situ biomonitors of atmospheric pollution in a semiarid climate-trace element analysis and electrolyte leakage from cells. Trace element concentrations were generally higher in Lecanora melanophthalma (Ram.) Ram. tissues than previously measured in sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) and perennial grasses from the same locations, but lower than in soil. Lichens from an urban area (Idaho Falls) had statistically higher concentrations of ten elements, particularly lead and zinc, than those from the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL) and Craters of the Moon National Monument. Levels of fluoride, nickel, and seven other elements were high at the INEL relative to the other sites. Thalli collected downwind from the Idaho Chemical Processing Plant (ICPP) at the INEL were significantly higher in boron and lead content than those collected at crosswind locations: levels of eleven elements were significantly higher in lichens collected at 5 or 10 km from the ICPP than in those collected at 2 km. Electrolyte leakage was greatest from thalli collected in the nighttime downwind direction from the ICPP, even though daytime winds, which blow in the opposite direction, are more frequent, suggesting that in a semiarid climate, injury from atmospheric SO
3244897|World-wide, 15 taxa (11% of the 137 studied) of the three traditional genera of Calymperaceae (s.s.) regularly produce gemmae sequentially on multicellular stalk-like foliar structures referred to here as gemmipars. Individual gemmiferous leaves give rise to few to many gemmipars, each of which is capable of producing gemmae continuously during the functional life of the leaf In the remainder of the gemmiferous species of Calymperaceae, the gemmae are produced and matured simultaneously on each gemmiferous leaf, and after abscission of their gemmae the gemmiferous leaves play no further role in asexual reproduction. Syrrhopodon, seemingly the least specialized genus of the family, has only about half the frequency of occurrence of gemmipars (7% of the 82 taxa studied) as that of Calymperes (17% of 35 taxa) and Mitthyridium (15% of 20 taxa). Gemmipars are species-specific in the Calymperaceae and thus potentially useful in systematics. The taxon-limited occurrence of gemmipars in the Calymperaceae and their role in enhancing asexual reproduction suggest that this method of asexual reproduction has ecological and evolutionary implications.
3244134|We have studied the sporophyte-gametophyte junction at the post-meiotic stage in five pleurocarpous mosses: Isothecium myosuroides Brid., Leucodon canariensis (Brid.) Schwaegr., Leptodon longisetus Mont,. Neckera cephalonica Jur. & Unger, and Neckera inter-media Brid. In all five species the foot does not penetrates the leafy caulidium. The junction in all of them corresponds to a "bryalean pattern", with transfer cells both in the gametophyte and sporophyte. However, except in Neckera intermedia, there were several layers of foot transfer cells, deviating from the typical 1:1 arrangement in this model. At this stage, the tissues of both foot and vaginula were degenerating. Vaginular cells surrounding the foot became empty and thin-walled. Opportunistic microorganisms were often found. The five species differ with respect to the number of layers of transfer cells and the degree of development of foot hydroids.
3244799|In this paper we segregate specimens from the genus Sticta in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park into phenotypic groups corresponding to putative species using traditional taxonomic methods, paying particular attention to specimens from the S. weigelii s. l. group, then employ phylogenetic analyses and rigorous statistics to test the robustness of these species groups. In order to circumscribe putative species and to resolve the S. weigelii complex, morphological, chemical, and molecular characters from the nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences of the entire Internal Transcribed Spacer region are analyzed separately and simultaneously using maximum parsimony or maximum likelihood. In addition to the bootstrap method, Bayesian statistics with the Markov Chain Monte Carlo algorithm are used to estimate branch robustness on the resulting reconstructed trees. Five out of six analyses recover the same five monophyletic putative species from the genus Sticta, indicating the concordance of DNA-based and morphology-based species delimitation. The phylogenies show that lichens identified as S. weigelii represented S. beauvoisii and the two new species described here - S. carolinensis and S. fragilinata. Sticta weigelii s. s. does not occur in the park. Specimens from Oregon identified as S. weigelii belong to another unnamed Sticta taxon. The remaining two monophyletic groups represent two species well known from the park-S. fuliginosa and S. limbata. Characteristics of secondary compounds detected by Thin Layer Chromatography (TLC) and High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) in S. fragilinata thalli are provided. Detailed descriptions, including morphology and chemistry, are provided for four Sticta species found in the Smoky Mountains: S. beauvoisii, S. carolinensis, S. fragilinata and S. fuliginosa.
10.2307/3241464|Nineteen species of Leptodontium are recognized for the New World. The genus is divided into four sections, including two new species. Critical characters of taxonomic importance, such as stem and costal anatomy, and laminal papillae morphology, are described in detail. The species are mainly found in mountainous areas, on various substrates. Several species are disjunct from the New World to Africa, while two species are essentially pan-tropical in distribution.
10.2307/3243250|The lichen-eating slug Pallifera varia consistently ate discs cut from the thallus of Cetraria pinastri, which produces vulpinic and pinastric acids, and rejected those from the morphologically similar C. oakesiana, which produces fatty acids including caperatic acid. In a second experiment, acetone extracts of the preferred C. pinastri did not deter feeding activity by the slugs but those of the avoided C. oakesiana did. Concentrations of vulpinic and pinastric acids in the thalli of C. pinastri appear to be too low to deter P. varia grazing. Caperatic acid and the other fatty acids of C. oakesiana appear to be more effective antiherbivore compounds than the vulpinic and pinastric acids of C. pinastri.
10.2307/3240697|Additional Ontario records for 35 species of mosses, most of them small and infrequently collected, are presented. Nine of these are new to the province.
23321069|Within the Lejeuneaceae the lobule papilla has been conceived to occupy three positions: proximal, distal, or ental of the apical tooth. This concept rests on the presupposition that the apical tooth in all species is homologous, an assumption that has been questioned but not demonstrably falsified. This paper describes a situation where characters describing the position of marginal papillae fail the test of conjunction, an explicitly testable criterion of homology, by co-occurring within an individual. This situation is presented by Cheilolejeunea oscilla, a new species from Queensland Australia. Variation in lobule morphology within individuals of C. oscilla demonstrates that a change from proximal to distal lobule papilla is achieved without altering the topological relationships between the first and second lobule teeth, and the lobule papilla. Therefore, the marginal papilla occupies the same position, proximal of the first lobule tooth, in all species of Lejeuneaceae subf. Lejeuneoideae, and apical teeth within typical Cheilolejeunea and Lejeunea are not homologous. The apparent difference in papilla position is due to the second lobule tooth being elaborated, and the first lobule tooth being incorporated into the lobule margin in typical Cheilolejeunea. One defining morphological character of Cheilolejeunea may be the presence of an elaborated second tooth, and on this basis the new combination Cheilolejeunea norrisii is proposed for a Tasmanian species previously referred to Lejeunea. The views of Mizutani and He, that referring to 'apical' teeth is ambiguous and the terminology 'distal' or 'proximal' when applied to lobule papilla position is positively misleading, are upheld. The need for descriptions of characters to accurately encapsulate the homology hypotheses they represent is stressed, and the need for greater attention to homology assessment when liverwort taxonomists propose characters and character states to describe their plants is again reiterated.
10.2307/3243879|An account is given of 10 previously described South American Sphagna, including one that is elevated from varietal to specific rank and named S. cribriforme Crum (S. perforatum var. rotundifolium Warnst.).
10.2307/3242666|102 releves of epiphytic lichen vegetation from the Elk Lake area (N-Ontario, Canada) were submitted to classification and ordination. Eight community types were recognized. The main ecological factors underlying the compositional variation of the releves is pH. Each community type is characterized by species with different distribution patterns in North America. Differences in the phytogeographical affinities of the community types are related to differences in ecological conditions. A comparison with data from an analogous study performed by the author in the Carnic Alps (Italy), shows that there is a high degree offloristic and structural convergence between communities of the two sites.
20485812|Two species and one variety of Microbryum (Pottiaceae) are represented in mainland China: M. starckeanum, M. davallianum var. davallianum and M. davallianum var. conicum. Detailed descriptions, illustrations and distribution information are given for China. Furthermore, spore morphology was examined with the scanning electron microscope (SEM).
10.2307/3243454|The relationships between basal pleurocarpous diplolepidous mosses are analyzed with cladistic methods. The Rhizogoniineae are central in this context since many of the character states associated with the pleurocarpous habit occur in taxa within this suborder of the Bryales. Besides most genera within this suborder, taxa within the Bryales suborder Bryineae, Orthotrichales, Hypnales, Leucodontales, and Hookeriales were included in the analysis. The choice of taxa was made to include those having character states indicating a taxonomic position close to the transition between acrocarpy and pleurocarpy, but also to include a sample of other pleurocarpous taxa to see where they would be placed in the cladograms. The analysis reveals that, depending on the interpretation of the data, either there are two distinct clades or one single clade where mosses with a pleurocarpous organization occur. Two clades seem stable-one with the terminal taxa Cryptopodium, Hypnodendron, Pterobryella, and Pyrrhobryum, and the other with Brachythecium plumosum, Cyclodictyon laetevirens, Duthiella, Franciella, Homalia lusitanica, Hypopterygium, Mesochaete, Ptychomnion, Racopilum, Rhizogonium, Schlotheimia, Spiridens, and Thamnobryum alopecurum. In the latter clade two less inclusive clades are recognizable, with Franciella, Ptychomnion, Schlotheimia and Spiridens, and with Brachythecium plumosum, Cyclodictyon laetevirens, Duthiella, Hypopterygium, Homalia lusitanica and Thamnobryum alopecurum, respectively. The clade representing most of the pleurocarpous mosses-the one with Brachythecium, Cyclodictyon, Duthiella, Hypopterygium, Homalia, and Thamnobryum-is defined by having undifferentiated leaf nerve cells. The analysis suggests that many hitherto (at one time or another) recognized taxa are polyphyletic (e.g., Hypnales suborder Hypnodendrineae, sensu Buck and Vitt) or paraphyletic (e.g., Bryales suborder Rhizogoniineae). It is suggested that the Orthotrichaceae may be relatively closely related to some of the pleurocarpous mosses, if Schlotheimia belongs to this family. A pleurocarpous diplolepidous moss is suggested to be defined as representing the grade where the sporophytes are inserted on shortened and laterally inserted, specialized perichaetial branches, which have only more or less specialized leaves, perichaetial leaves. Whether the perichaetial branches are inserted laterally near the stem base or further up on the stem is considered to be of less importance, and the position high up on the stem seems to be a later feature than the appearance of the short and specialized perichaetial branches. It is suggested that the genera Racopilum, Rhizogonium, or Ptychomnion are suitable as out groups for polarizing the character states when further analyses of the relationships among the pleurocarpous taxa with homogeneous nerves are made.
10.2307/3244366|Section Tayloriae of the genus Plagiochila is characterized. Plagiochila himalayana Schiffn. is redescribed and illustrated. Plagiochila propinqua Sande Lac. of sect. Contiguae Carl and P. oblonga Inoue of sect. Firmae are transferred to the section. Five species names are newly placed in synonymy: Plagiochila decolyana Steph. (= P. nepalensis Lindenb.), P. kudremuktii Steph. (= P. himalayana Schiffn.), P. kurseongensis Steph. (= P. flexuosa Mitt.), P. parvidentata Inoue (= P. sisparensis Steph.), and P. subpropinqua Schiffn. (= P. himalayana Schiffn.). Plagiochila decolyana, P. ferruginea Steph. and P. liebmanniana Lehm & Lindenb. are excluded from this section. A key to the species of sect. Tayloriae Carl in Asia is provided.
40982991|Clastobryopsis imbricata sp. nov. (Pylaisiadelphaceae, Musei) is described on the basis of specimens collected at middle elevations of Doi (Mt.) Inthanon, northern Thailand. The species is characterized by strongly imbricate and spiral foliation of short ascending branches, caudate branch tips bearing smooth, filamentous gemmae in leaf axils, cannate leaves with distinct spine(s) at the base of the dorsal side of the keel, thin-walled, quadrate alar cells arranged in a scalariform manner, narrowly cylindrical capsules with perforate exostome teeth and reduced endostome, and non-collenchymatous exothecial cells. The multistratose alar cells, smooth filamentous gemmae, and non-collenchymatous exothecial cells, as well as phylogenetic inferences based on rbcL sequences, suggest that the species belongs in the genus Clastobryopsis (Pylaisiadelphaceae).
10.2307/3242484|Low plasmolytic and cryoscopically determined osmotic potentials (-29 to -37 bars) were observed in unelongated seta cells of Lophocolea heterophylla (Schrad.) Dum. Increase in osmotic potential to -6 bars is concurrent with 16-fold increase in length and water content of cells.
10.2307/3242199| Melophyllum radiculosum Herz. of Peru, type species of Melophyllum Herz., is transfered to the genus Bryomanginia Thr. (Ditrichaceae). 
10.2307/3242821|Aspects of standard methods for obtaining information about spore size are exemplified by measurements in Ceratodon purpureus. Principles for comparing spore sizes of species are discussed, and emphasis is given to the criteria for selection of material. The significance of spore surface sculpturing is unknown; one function may be to prevent, by interaction with the surface tension of water, small quantities of water from activating spore germination. Fully developed chloroplasts are usually present in bryophyte spores, however reduction in chloroplast numbers and structures may occur towards spore maturity. Unicellular spores are presumably derived from multicellular spores by blocking of the nucleus in the G
10.2307/3242258| A list of 50 lichens collected by Andreas Zst from isolated islands in the open water polynya at the north end of Baffin Bay suggests the vegetation is not much influenced by the difference in climate. It resembles that of nearby Arctic regions. Colonization by the lichens is suggested to be post-Pleistocene and from the west in Canada. 
10.2307/3241936|Rozea is a small genus of pleurocarpous mosses which occurs in the highlands of Mexico, Central America, northern South America and Himalayan Asia. The species are, at best, ill-defined, and the genus has been overclassified. We recognize R. chrysea Besch. (syn. R. stricta Besch.), R. chrysea fo. andrieuxii (C. Muell.) stat nov., R. chrysea var. bourgaeana (Besch.) stat. nov. (syn. R. schimperi Besch. and R. viridis Besch.) and R. subjulacea Besch. in the Americas. The Asiatic species are R. pterogonioides (Harv.) Jaeg. (syn. R. myura Herz.), R. microcarpa Broth., R. microcarpa fo. elongata fo. nov. and R. kenoyeri n. sp. (from Uttar Pradesh, India). Rozea diversifolia Broth. appears to be a Homalothecium. Rozea roseorum Williams is a Juratzkaea species. Micrographs of peristomes provide evidence that Rozea may have some relationship to the hypnoid group of families rather than to the Entodontaceae.
10.2307/3242885| Bruchia flexuosa (Sw. ex Schwaegr.) C. Mll, is reported from California and Oregon. This is the first report of the species from western North America. 
10.2307/3243609| Syrrhopodon prolifer Schwaegr. occurs around the world, mainly in the tropics, as nine taxonomic varieties. Syrrhopodon prolifer var. albidus (Thwaites & Mitt.) Orbn & Reese, S. p. var. hispidocostatus (Ren. & Card.) Orbn & Reese, and S. p. var. tosaensis (Card.) Orbn & Reese are new combinations and changes in taxonomic rank. Illustrations, distribution maps, and a key to the taxa are provided. 
10.2307/3242316| Twenty-three mosses are reported for the first time from Hispaniola. an island poorly studied bryologically in spite of its diverse flora. Ptilium orthothecium Thr, is placed in synonymy under Hypnum polypterum (Mitt.) Broth. 
10.2307/3243665|The distribution of corticolous lichens and their invertebrate associates was examined on the trunks of Quercus rubra L. at three sites in a mixed forest ecosystem in central Maine, USA. Thirty-two lichen species were found. Lichen biomass was greater on southern exposures, but species diversity was greater on northern exposures. Lichen assemblages contained terrestrial (Arthropoda) and aquatic (Rotifera, Nematoda, and Tardigrada) faunas. The aquatic fauna comprised 75% of the invertebrates retrieved from vacuumed assemblages. Oribatid mites comprised 86% of the terrestrial associates and macrolichen-dominant assemblages supported larger numbers of arthropods than crustose-dominant assemblages. The significant correlation between lichen biomass and Arthropoda, Tardigrada, and Rotifera abundance suggests that corticolous lichens are resources for invertebrate associates from these phyla.
10.2307/3243286|Syrrhopodon incompletus Schwaegr. (Musci: Calymperaceae), with a very wide range in tropical and subtropical America, is reported for the first time from Africa on one collection from eastern Zaire and two from Tanzania. The African specimens, previously known as S. brevivaginans Demaret & Leroy, belong to S. incompletus Schwaegr. var. incompletus.
10.2307/3242144|Nephroma occultum sp. nov. is described from material collected from treetops in Oregon. This species is in the N. cellulosum group but contains usnic acid. Notes on the chemistry of N. arcticum, N. antarcticum and N. australe are also given.
10.2307/3241017|Two new combinations, Plagiochila virido-nigra (Hodgs.) H. Inoue and Syzygiella pseudoconnexa (Herz.) H. Inoue, are made and a new name, Plagiochila neorupicola H. Inoue, is required for the Sikkim-Himalayan species Plagiochila rupicola Steph. Several species of Plagiochila and Syzygiella are reduced to synonymy.
3244802| Lectotypes are explicitly designated for 43 taxa in the genus Fossombronia Raddi, with neotypes designated for F. mauritanica Trab. and F. pusilla var.  capitata Nees. One name, F. pumila Dumort, is regarded as an orthographic error not based upon a specimen and thus, cannot be typified. The entries are listed alphabetically, each with the correct author citation, place of publication, and the herbarium of deposit. In addition, supporting comments are given for most selections. Fossombronia caespitiformis De Not. ex Rabenh. var. multispira Schijfn. is elevated to the rank of subspecies. Images of all type specimen labels may be viewed at: http:// bryophytes.plant.siu.edu/fossombronia.html 
23321028|To evaluate the current delimitation of broadly distributed morphospecies from the Lecanora dispersa group, the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region (ITS1, 5.8S and ITS2) was analyzed phylogenetically and compared to phenotypic data variation within and among species. Phylogenetic relationships among 34 individuals representing eight species from the L. dispersa group, collected mainly from Poland and other European countries, were inferred using two types of Bayesian analyses (with and without a priori alignments), maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony approaches. The highest phylogenetic resolution and the largest number of significantly supported internodes resulted from the Bayesian analysis without a priori alignment. Inferred phylogenies confirmed a broader delimitation of the L. dispersa group, to include four additional lobate taxa: L. contractula, L. pruinosa, L. reuteri, and L. thuleana (= Arctopeltis thuleana). Lecanora crenulata, L. dispersa, L. reuterii, and the core of L. albescens and L. semipallida were all found to be monophyletic with high support (by at least one phylogenetic analysis) except the first species. Based on the ITS region, phenotypically similar individuals, thought to belong to one monophyletic group, were found to belong to multiple distantly related groups (e.g., members of L. albescens and L. hagenii), suggesting that morphological, anatomical and chemical characters may not be consistent in predicting species boundaries within the L. dispersa group. Potential undescribed species were found within phenotypically defined L. albescens and L. semipallida. Phylo-taxonomic studies of the L. dispersa group with more loci and a more extensive taxon sampling are urgently needed.
3244753|Grimmia teretinervis is thought to occur sporadically across the North American continent. New site records from Alberta, the Yukon Territory, and Alaska are linked to the margin of the Cretaceous epicontinental seaway. Geological maps from other areas of the continent reveal that G. teretinervis is associated with deposits from other ancient epicontinental seaways. All areas have experienced either faulting or fluvial erosion that have exposed massive sections of calcareous sediments that are suitable microhabitats for G. teretinervis.
10.2307/3244109|In the highly variable Dimelaena radiata (Physciaceae, Lecanorales) two morphotypes and four chemotypes can be recognized. The species is distributed in southwestern North America, Macaronesia, western North Africa, and Mediterranean Europe. It occurs on siliceous and volcanic rocks. A description of the lichenicolous Ascomycete Endococcus buelliae (Verrucariales) is given. It occurs on two genera of the Physciaceae (Buellia and Dimelaena) and has been found in Antarctica and southwestern North America.
10.2307/3243998|Pyrenula flagellata is described as new from Saipan, Mariana Islands, Micronesia. It is distinguished from all other species in the genus by 8-celled fusiform spores with a flagellum-like extension at one end.
10.2307/3243524|A new species of Isopterygium, I. acutifolium, is described from south-central Venezuela. The moss is an aquatic species and is readily recognized by its acute leaves with prominent alar regions containing several rows of quadrate or rectangular cells.
10.2307/3241736| Fissidens diplodus Mitt, is reported new to the moss flora of Mexico (Tamaulpas). Fifteen state records for Nuevo Len and Coahuila are also reported. 
10.2307/3243801|A list of lichen species found in Glacier National Park, Montana, is presented, including notes on relative abundance, substrate, and habitat. Four hundred twenty-five species in 106 genera are reported, including 137 species previously unpublished for Montana. The diversity of Glacier National Park's lichen flora is enhanced by the wide variety of available substrates, an elevational gradient from 970 to 3,190 m, and the Park's position astride the continental divide.
10.2307/3244414|The reports of Caloplaca gloriae Llimona & Werner and C. microthallina (Wedd.) Zahlbr. as new to North America and to British Columbia in The Bryologist 99: 196 are incorrect. The material corresponds with C. verruculifera (Vainio) Zahlbr. and C. flavogranulosa Arup, respectively, two common species in British Columbia.
10.2307/3242318|Encalypta longicolla Bruch is reported from western Newfoundland. This is the first report of this species from eastern North America, disjunct by 6500 km from the nearest populations in Alberta.
10.2307/3241352|Fifteen species of the crustose lichen family Lecanactidaceae from different parts of the world were analyzed microchemically and/or by thin-layer chromatography. Schismatomma hypothallinum (Zahlbr.) Hasse from California contains the new lichen product hypothallin, although the main specific secondary substances of this group seem to be the depside lecanoric acid and its erythritol ester, erythrin. In addition to anatomical observations, the chemotaxonomic data obtained here confirm that the Lecanactidaceae can be placed with the bitunicate Hysteriales (Loculoascomycetidae) together with the phytochemically similar Opegraphaceae and Roccellaceae.
10.2307/3242695| The Freda Haffner Kettlehole Preserve, a natural prairie remnant in Dickinson County, Iowa, supports 34 species of bryophytes. Most of the taxa are common and widespread elsewhere and many are typical weedy pioneers of poor soils or recently disturbed sites. The greater number of species and all pleurocarpous species occurred on slopes with a northern aspect. Acrocarpous species occurred on all slopes but were more abundant on slopes with a southern aspect. These distribution patterns may be attributed to a relation between growth form and measured differences in maximum surface temperature and evaporation on the two slope aspects. Total bryophyte abundance strongly correlated with slope steepness and ground-level light intensity, the latter determined primarily by vascular plant density and height. Prairie species Bryum creberrimum and Weissia controversa reached light compensation points at higher light intensities and approached maximum photosynthesis more slowly with increasing light intensity than did two forest species Atrichum undulatum and Mnium cuspidatum. Maximum photosynthesis was reached by Weissia controversa at 40C, and by the other three species at 30C. Weissia controversa occurred on both slope aspects whereas Bryum creberrimum was restricted to slopes of northern aspect. Some bryophytes appear to be specifically adapted to the high light intensities and high temperatures of the prairie habitat. Insufficient light may limit bryophyte growth under dense prairie vascular communities although bare soil and sufficient moisture are present. 
10.2307/3243357|Aneura marianensis Furuki (Hepaticae; Aneuraceae) is described as a new species from the Northern Mariana Islands.
3244781|Fissidens sublimbatus is reported new to Morocco and the Canary Islands (Spain). Differences with F. arnoldii, F. bambergeri, F. crispus, and F. megalotis subsp. helictocaulos are given. A map showing the world distribution of the species is included.
3244730|Twenty-seven species of lichenicolous fungi (five of which are lichenized) are reported from Interior Alaska. Arthophacopsis parmeliarum (Sommerf.) Arnold, Capronia peltigerae (Fuckel) D. Hawksw., Merismatium heterophractum (Nyl.) Vouaux, Phomapeltigerae (P. Karst.) D. Hawksw., Roselliniella peltigericola D. Hawksw. & Miadlikowska, and Stigmidium pseudopeltideae Cl. Roux & Triebel are reported from North America for the first time. Corticifraga peltigerae (Nyl.) D. Hawksw. & R. Sant., Refractohilum peltigerae (Keissl.) D. Hawksw., and Vezdaea acicularis Coppins are here reported new to the United States.
10.2307/3241065|Seventy-three species of bryophytes are reported from a ravine and surrounding habitats in Livingston County, west-central New York. Many of the taxa are new to the local flora.
10.2307/3242110|A new species of lichen, Haematomma californicum, belonging to section Ventosa, is described. This corticolous lichen with its thin thallus differs from its nearest relatives, H. ventosum and H. lapponicum, in morphology, chemistry, and ecology.
10.2307/3244362|The species belonging to Pertusaria occurring in southwestern North America are revised. 28 taxa are accepted. Descriptions of the species not treated in earlier monographs and a key to the taxa are included. The new species P. brattiae Lumbsch & Nash and P. neolecanina Lumbsch & Nash are described. P. arizonica is reduced to synonymy with P. tejocotensis, P. arsenei with P. pseudocorallina, and P. coccopoda with P. moreliensis. Pertusaria mesotropa is a new record for North America; P. azulensis and P. mariae are reported from the U.S. for the first time; and P. peudocorallina, P. rubefacta, and P. texana are new to Mexico. For some species, range extensions of the known distribution within North America are recorded.
10.2307/3243523|Ramalina unifolia Thoms. is described from North America
10.2307/3242342|Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) B.S.G. is reported for the first time from British Columbia, Canada, and possibly the first from western North America. The two varieties, var. megapolitana (Schultz) B.S.G. and var. lucasiana (Nees et Hornsch.) Schimp, intergrade considerably. The species has an east-west disjunction on the North American continent.
20110908|This paper treats Caloplaca cerina, C. crocea and C. erythrantha with brief comments on C. pinicola, C. haematites and two unnamed taxa. Several new synonyms are presented and lectotypes are designated for C. borealis, C. ulmorum and C. erythranthoides. Epitypes are designated for C. cerina and C. stillicidiorum. Maps and color photographs are provided for the main species treated and a key for the identification of taxa in North and Central America.
40732274|Cyanolophocolea echinella R.M. Schust. is an intriguing species, possessing some character states characteristic of the genus Chiloscyphus, such as the ability to produce both male and female gametangia on leading shoots, while having other features that are generic characters of Heteroscyphus, namely presence of gametangia on short, abbreviated lateral-intercalary branches. Its systematic identity was here studied using morphological and DNA sequence data of the chloroplast gene regions of rbcL, rps4 and trnl-Y.Thirty-seven exemplars including eight of Cyanolophocolea echinella, 27 of Lophocoleaceae and two of Plagiochilaceae were used for phylogenetic reconstruction using both maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference methods. Our analyses placed Cyanolophocolea echinella within Heteroscyphus with strong support. Heteroscyphus echinellus (Lindenb. 8c Gottsche) J.J. Engel & XiaoL. He is proposed and based on morphological variations two varieties, var. echinellus and var. hyalinus J.J. Engel, are recognized. A large indel (59 base pairs) and one substitution in the trnL intron region, and also one substitution in the intergenic spacer region were found in the trnL-Y in two Cyanolophocolea echinella exemplars both with hyaline oil-bodies. This indicates rapid molecular evolution might have occurred within the species.
10.2307/3243939| Three moss taxa are recognized as new in Tierra del Fuego (Argentina): the genus Pilopogon Brid., with P. schilleri Herz. & Thr., Zygodon menziesii (Schwaegr.) Arnott, and Philonotis litorea Card. & Broth. The sporophytes of P. schilleri are described and illustrated for the first time. Brood branches were found on P. litorea; this is the first report of such propagula on any southern South American species of the genus. /// [Spanish] Se reconocen tres taxa de musgos nuevos para Tierra del Fuego (Argentina): el gnero Pilopogon Brid., con P. schilleri Herz. & Thr., Zygodon menziesii (Schwaegr.) Arnott, y Philonotis litorea Card. & Broth. Los esporofitos de P. schilleri se describen e ilustran por primera vez. En P. litorea se hallaron propgulos siendo stos los primeros que se observan en las especies del gnero en el Sur de Sudamrica. 
3244157|Mosses with haplolepideous peristomes form a major lineage within the arthrodontous taxa, the Dicranidae. Relationships among lineages within the Dicranidae are explored using three cpDNA regions: rbcL, rps4, and the region spanning trnL(UAA)- trnF(GAA). Maximum parsimony analyses of combined data sets support robust clades that correspond to traditionally recognized families. Phylogenetic relationships of 71 exemplar taxa rooted with five outgroup taxa identify 13 major clades within the Dicranidae. Predominantly the monophyly of these groups is strongly supported, although relationships among the clades are ambiguous. The phylogenetic implications of the current taxon sampling include 1) the Dicranidae are monophyletic, 2) the Pottiales are polyphyletic with the Calymperaceae and Octoblepharaceae cladistically distant from the Pottiaceae, and these two former families should be transferred to the Dicranales, 3) the Dicranales are polyphyletic, with Ditrichaceae and Rhabdoweisiaceae more closely related to the Pottiaceae than other members of the Dicranales, 4) the Fissidentaceae are nested within the Dicranales, 5) the Rhachitheciaceae and Erpodiaceae are nested within the Dicranidae and sister to the Pottiaceae, 6) Amphidium is sister to the pottiaceous clade, 7) the Seligeriaceae form a well supported sister relationship to the Grimmiales, and 8) Scouleria aquatica, Bryoxiphium norvegicum, Ditrichum flexicaule, and Timmiella crassinervis appear to form basal lineages within the Dicranidae.
10.2307/3240985|Brachythecium sect. Velutinum, with five species and one variety in North America north of Mexico, is discussed. Brachythecium idahense Ren. & Card. is referred to the synonymy of B. velutinum. Brachythecium velutinum v. venustum (De Not.) Arc. (syn. B suberythorrhizon Ren. & Card. and B. petrophilum Williams) and B. fendleri, a valid species (syn. B. utahense James), are redescribed. Lescuraea iliamniana Lawt. is referred to the synonymy of L. julacea Besch. & Card. Leskeella nervosa v. sibirica (Arn.) Broth. (syn. Leskea catenulata v. acuminata Culm. and Pseudoleskeella catenulata v. filescens (Best) Lawt.) is discussed.
3244826|When abandoned peatlands undergo restoration following the extraction of peat moss, newly reintroduced diaspores may be buried by particles eroded from the stripped peat (decomposed) or from adjacent extraction activities. This study examined, in the greenhouse, the tolerance of six species of peat mosses to burial by peat. One of the experiments consisted of depositing predetermined thicknesses (0, 10, and 30 mm) of peat onto partially established mats of Sphagnum species and true mosses. A second experiment evaluated the effect of a wider range of burial depths (maximum set at 40 mm) on Sphagnum fuscum. After ten weeks of burial, the expansion of the established mosses buried under 10 mm of peat was slowed down but not arrested. Dicranella cerviculata is the only species that did not tolerate being buried. The mosses showed three types of final responses to burial: neutral, in which the increases and decreases in cover were not significantly different between the tested and the control depths (for Sphagnum fuscum buried under 5 mm and Sphagnum fallax buried under 10 mm); negative, in which the decrease in cover was significant at the depth tested (for Sphagnum fuscum, Sphagnum magellanicum, Polytrichum strictum, and Dicranella cerviculata buried under 10 mm or more, and for Sphagnum fallax and Sphagnum capillifolium buried under 30 mm of peat); and positive, in which the increase in cover was significant at the depth tested (for Sphagnum capillifolium buried under 10 mm of peat). After burial, mosses emerged by means of an innovation or a continuity of the stem of the initial individual for the Sphagnum species, and by means of an innovation growing out of the apex of buried individuals in the case of Polytrichum strictum. It appears that restoration efforts may be futile in cases where diaspores and newly established mats are likely to be buried at depths exceeding 10 mm.
20110935|The term "ethnobryology" was introduced about 50 years ago in a paper about the bryophytes used by the Gosiute people of Utah (Flowers 1957). Although there are fewer literature reports about human uses of bryophytes than those about vascular plants, a number of references about ethnobotanically important bryophytes do exist. These instances of ethnobryological use are all the more interesting both because of their relative rarity, and for the insights they can provide about the relation between people and small plants, like bryophytes, that lie on the cusp of human perception. This paper presents a summary of traditional uses and folk classifications of bryophytes around the world. Comparisons are made about the way that bryophytes are classified in different cultures. A list of about 150 ethnobotanical species of bryophytes is given. Many of these species have reported uses in Traditional Chinese Medicine (27%) and by Native North Americans (28%). The most common use of bryophytes is for medicinal purposes. Sphagnum, Marchantia and Polytrichum are the most commonly reported genera to have ethnobotanical uses. This paper concludes by discussing how these peculiar instances of the human use of little plants can inform the study of ethnobotany in general.
10.2307/3240692|The known macrolichen flora of Florida consists of 150 species in 25 genera. The present study is based on some 6,000 specimens, most of which were collected from 1964 to 1968. A complete description, including the salient morphological and chemical traits as well as the local geographic distribution, is given for each species. Keys are provided for the genera and for the species in each genus. Although the keys and descriptions are based upon Florida specimens, the general treatment should be applicable to the flora of adjacent regions in the coastal plain of the Deep South. Most of the macrolichens of Florida fall into ten categories with regard to their worldwide distribution: species endemic to Florida; pantropical species; widespread species; exclusively North American species; North American-tropical American species; North American-European species; North American-Asian species; North American-tropical American-Asian species; North American-tropical American-European species; and north temperate species. Although five species, Cladonia abbreviatula, C. botryocarpa, C. perforata, Leptogium floridanum, and Ramalina paludosa, are known only from Florida, the degree of endemism among the macrolichens is low. In comparison with that of some other regions of eastern North America, the macrolichen flora of Florida is not particularly rich. Eighty-nine species are sufficiently common to have been collected often enough for a reliable determination of their ranges in Florida. Of these the largest number, 44 species (e.g., Cladonia balfourii and Parmelia tinctorum), occur throughout the state. Thirty-two species have a north-central distribution (e.g., Cladonia polycarpia), ten species have a south-central distribution (e.g., Dirinaria purpurascens), six species have a disjunct northwest-central distribution (e.g., Cladonia prostrata), and five species of Pyxine and Ramalina are almost exclusively coastal. Maps of the Florida ranges of representative species are provided as examples of the distribution types represented in the local macrolichen flora. Four Caribbean species, Cladonia sandstedei, Physcopsis minor, Ramalina dasypoga, and R. dendriscoides, are reported from mainland North America for the first time. Xanthoria is reported from Florida for the first time, and a second locality was discovered for the rare endemic Cladonia perforata, a species previously known only from the type locality on Santa Rosa Island. In keeping with certain newer taxonomic views concerning generic lines in the Physciaceae, it is proposed that several Florida species be removed from Physcia, a clearly polyphyletic group at least in its classical concept. Physcia aegialita and P. purpurascens are transferred to Dirinaria, and P. minor to Physcopsis.
10.2307/3240681|Diphyscium foliosum (Hedw.) Mohr is reported as new for Louisiana. It has not previously been found on the coastal plain, and the disjunct Louisiana population is apparently a Pleistocene relict.
10.2307/3242700|A list of the 445 species of mosses known to occur on the island of Newfoundland, Canada, is presented with reference to published reports since 1973.
10.2307/3241406| A survey of the literature from 1818 to 1973 in which species of mosses reported for Venezuela have been documented with citation of specimens indicates a known flora of 626 species. Fissidens genunervis C. Mll. is reduced to a synonym of F. asplenioides Hedw. and Polytrichum altisetum C. Mll. var. humilisetum C. Mll. is reduced to a synonym of P. juniperinum Hedw. Three new combinations are proposed: Atractylocarpus longisetus (Hook.) Bartr. var. meridense (Hampe) comb. nov.; A. longisetus var. laxifolius (Broth.) comb. nov.; and Squamidium nigricans (Hook.) Bartr. var. pendula (Hampe) comb. nov. 
3244895| Two Sphagnum species are reported for Hawaii: S. palustre L. (section Sphagnum) and S. wheeleri C. Mll. (section Rigida). Sphagnum henryense Warnst. (section Sphagnum) is excluded. Additional evidence supporting the exclusion of Sphagnum vitjianum Schimper and S. perichaetiale Hampe (both in section Sphagnum) is also presented. The type of S. lonchocladum C. Mll. is shown to be a Hillebrand collection (in section Sphagnum) from Hawaii and not a Kirk collection (in section Rigida) from New Zealand. The description of S. palustre is revised, in large part to reflect the incorporation of S. japonicum Warnst., S. pseudocymbifolium C. Mll, and S. sulphureum Warnst. 
3244616|Pyrrhospora gowardiana Spribille & Hauck is described as a new crustose lichen with red apothecia growing primarily on twigs and bark of Larix, Pinus, and Pseudotsuga in montane western North America. It differs from the widespread and circumboreal P. cinnabarina (Sommerf.) Choisy in absence of soredia; verruculose to verrucose, grayish thallus; larger, more strongly convex apothecia; and occurrence in dry, exposed habitats. The species is furthermore the first representative of its genus from which pycnidia have been reported.
3244820|This study has shown a clear edge effect on the green-algal lichen community on spruce branches in a middle boreal spruce forest. Measurements of the following parameters from lower tree branches were carried out at five transects parallel to the SE facing forest edge: species richness, lichen cover, proportion of morphologically aberrant thalli, and size distribution of Platismatia glauca, and length and number of pendulous thalli. The transects were located at 0, 8, 16, 32, and 64 ms distance from the edge. The intensity of edge effects are found to be species-specific as some species showed pronounced edge response e.g., Cavernularia hultenii, Hypogymnia tubulosa, and Platismatia glauca. In general, the lichen pioneer community distributed on the outermost part of the spruce branches are most affected by the edge environment. A low frequency of small thalli of P. glauca and Bryoria spp. at the edge, compared to forest interior, may indicate unsuccessful colonization, depressed growth, or low supply of diaspores at the edge. Wind and snow abrasion at the edge are probably important factors explaining the observed lichen response.
10.2307/3244202| A treatment of eight saxicolous, atranorin containing taxa of Lecanora subfusca in India is presented. Descriptions of the species and a key to the taxa are included. A new subspecies (L. campestris subsp. gulmargia Upreti) and a new variety (L. cinereofusca var. himalayensis Upreti) are described. Lecanora melacarpella Mll. Arg., L. streimannii Lumbsch, L. subimmersa (Fe) Vainio, and L. sulphurescens Fe, are recorded for the first time for India. 
10.2307/3243964|Gametophytic plants from six populations of the moss Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid. were grown on substrates with varied degrees of heavy-metal contamination in order to assess the effects of metal pollution on growth, leaf size, and formation of archegonia and antheridia. Sex ratios and the overall levels of sexual expression varied greatly among samples from natural populations. Sex ratios in four populations were biased in favor of females, one in favor of males, and one contained asexual gametophores only. Experimental substrates had a significant effect on the overall levels of sexual expression but not on the relative frequencies of male versus female stems. Innate differences in leaf size among populations were maintained in a common garden but leaf size was also affected by substrate. Patterns of phenotypic plasticity characterizing the six populations were indistinguishable. Plants from several populations that originated in uncontaminated habitats grew as well on mine soil as plants from a mine-site population, suggesting an absence of ecotypic differentiation.
10.2307/3242718| Archidium ohionse Schimp. ex C. Muell., Bryum cf. apiculatum Schwaegr., and Fissidens glauculus C. Muell, are new records for Upper Volta. 
10.2307/3243493| The moss genus Philophyllum C. Mll, is revised and considered to be monotypic. The genus is placed in the Leucomiaceae on the basis of stem anatomy, calyptra morphology, and annular development. The annulus is shown to have cells internally ribbed. 
10.2307/3243966|Sexual and asexual propagules of Tetraphis pellucida differ in dispersal pattern and establishment success. In field and laboratory trials, the spore dispersal pattern was leptokurtic, but a significant fraction of the spores was trapped as far as 2 m from the colony. Gemmae were dispersed within 10 cm of the colony. The two forms of gemmiferous shoots, cupped and stalked, differed in microtopographic distribution but did not differ significantly in dispersal potential. Stalk-gemmae were positively associated with steeply sloped microsites. Gemmae were far more successful than spores in establishment of new shoots on bare substrate. Neither gemmae nor spores were capable of colonizing in the presence of established competitors. Production of gemmae facilitates local colonization of decaying stumps, whereas spore production ensures long-distance dispersal to newly available sites.
3244847|ITS1 and ITS2 sequences and a morphological analysis confirm the position of the Andean species Kingiobryum paramicola H. Rob. within the Pottiaceae and the genus Didymodon. It is closely related to Didymodon australasiae and D. umbrosus. A new combination is proposed: Didymodon paramicola (H. Rob.), comb. nov.
3244830|On Easter Island (Chile) 11 species of liverworts and a single hornwort species are recorded, mainly based on a recent collection by Robert R. Ireland & Gilda Bellolio. Among them, Marsupidium knightii Mitt. and Jackiella javanica Schiffn., are new to the New World. The latter is likewise the first New World record of the genus Jackiella Schiffn..
10.2307/3242143|Sphagnum henryense Warnst. is reported new to Alaska, California, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Oregon, Texas, Washington and West Virginia in the U.S., British Columbia, Canada, and Japan. It is best distinguished from S. palustre L. by its branch leaf hyaline cell wall ridge reticulum and numerous small branch leaf pores, but characteristics are variable.
10.2307/3242077|The latest published list of all taxa of the genus Scapania from western North America includes 19 species, 4 subspecies and 9 varieties.
41289809|Hypogymnia imshaugii is one of the most common, conspicuous and morphologically variable epiphytic lichens of the Pacific coastal states and provinces. The species varies greatly in morphology and chemistry, suggesting multiple closely related species or one or more phenotypically plastic species. We sought to determine whether additional ecologically meaningful species might be present within the H. imshaugii complex. Improving our species concepts could potentially improve ecological inferences based on community sampling. Three relatively welldefined genetic groups and one residual group in the H. imshaugii complex were detected with haplotype networks based on the ITS locus; however, phylogenetic reconstructions on combined ITS, mtSSU, GPD1 and TEF1 loci did not reflect this pattern. At present, we have insufficient evidence to support defining any of these groups as new taxa. The four major chemotypes in H. imshaugii differed in frequency among the genetic groups. None of the genetic groups was, however, qualitatively uniform in chemotype. Only one chemotype occurred in a single genetic group, but several chemotypes occurred in that group. While broadly sympatric, each chemotype had a distinct geographic distribution, and each chemotype showed its own relationship to climate, as shown by regression of occurrences of chemotypes against climatic variables. The genetic variation detected within H. imshaugii did not correspond to geographic variation in morphology, chemistry, or climate. Within the broader H. imshaugii complex, we recommend treating H. amplexa as a synonym of H. imshaugii unless it can be more distinctly separated from the clinal variation in morphology, chemistry, or DNA sequences. In contrast to H. amplexa, however, H. inactiva and H. gracilis are both easily separated morphologically from H. imshaugii and do not intergrade with it.
10.2307/3243869| A circumscription of the lichen genus Cetraria Ach. s.s., presently comprising 15 species, is made. The genus is characterized by oblong, citriform conidia as well as characters of the ascus: a small axial body and a distinct amyloid ring structure in the tholus (the region between the ocular chamber and the outer membranes in the apex of the ascus). All fertile species of Coelocaulon Link are incorporated into Cetraria, based upon the similarities in ascus structures and conidia. Two new combinations are made: Cetraria crespoae (Barreno & Vzquez) Krnef. and C. steppae (Sav.) Krnef. Two new genera, Arctocetraria Krnef & Thell and Cetrariella Krnef. & Thell are described, each of which differs in ascus structure from Cetraria. The new combinations Arctocetraria andrejevii (Oxn.) Krnef. & Thell, A. nigricascens (Nyl. in Kihim.) Krnef. & Thell, Cetrariella delisei (Schaer.) Krnef. & Thell, and C. fastigiata (Nyl.) Krnef. & Thell are made. Two additional species, earlier presumed to belong to Cetraria in the rather strict sense, are transferred to Tuckermannopsis Gyeln., mainly because of similarities in the ascus structure; the new combinations Tuckermannopsis inermis (Nyl.) Krnef. and T. subalpina (Imsh.) Krnef. are made to reflect this change. The presumed evolutionary affinities of all of these taxa are discussed. 
10.2307/3241238|Twenty-one families, 36 genera, and 46 species of mosses are known from the Marquesas Islands, French Polynesia, of which 3 families, 6 genera, and 8 species are newly reported.
10.2307/3241839|Hypothamnolic acid and thamnolic acid from Sphaerophorus globosus and hypothamnolic acid from S. fragilis are reported for the first time. The chemical structures of these compounds suggest that they are biogenetically related. The apparently very different geographic distribution of some of the chemical races seems to indicate that chemical differentiation in the genus is an old direction in evolution.
10.2307/3243483|Polytrichastrum sect. Meiotrichum G. Sm. is raised to generic rank, with one species: Meiotrichum lyallii (Mitt.) Merr. Polytrichastrum sect. Aporotheca (Limpr.) Merr., Polytrichastrum appalachianum (Anders.) Merr., and Polytrichastrum sexangulare var. vulcanicum (C. Jens.) Merr. are new combinations. The diagnostic features of Polytrichum, Polytrichastrum, and Pogonatum are given, with an explanation of the generic concepts.
10.2307/3242219| Specimens of Encalyptaceae from North and South America will be distributed to 50 herbaria as Encalyptaceae Americanae Exsiccatae. Fasciculus No. 1 contains 10 numbers. Two genera, Bryobrittonia Williams and Encalypta Schreb. ex Hedw., comprise the Encalyptaceae. The long-cylindric, campanulate calyptra exemplifies the family. Bulging, but almost smooth, upper leaf cell walls of Bryobrittonia are quite distinct from the bulging and highly modified ones of Encalypta. One of the first descriptions and figures of a species of Encalypta was published by Petiver in 1695. Later, Bridel and Hedwig described species of Encalypta, but Bridel was the first to recognize and establish the taxonomic significance of the distinctive calyptra. The Encalyptaceae has most often been considered closely related to the Pottiaceae. Distributional and ecological data on E. brevipes Schljak. and E. mutica Hag. are presented. The distribution of E. longicolla Bruch in North America is mapped. Chromosome numbers of n = 12 and n = 13 are reported for E. mutica and E. longicolla, respectively. Two specimens of E. spathulata C.Mll., which has recently been reported to occur in North America, are contained in this first fascicle. Distinguishing features of two closely related species, E. ciliata Hedw. and E. brevicolla (B.S.G.) Bruch ex Aongstr., are discussed. The essential similarity in the cell wall structure of Bryobrittonia longipes (Mitt.) Horton to that of species of Encalypta is illustrated. 
3244893|The Pacific Northwest tall shrub Acer circinatum (vine maple) can host diverse and abundant epiphyte communities. A chronosequence approach revealed that these communities gradually shift in composition as the shrub progresses through its life cycle. Different epiphytic life forms occupy different spatial and temporal niches on shrub stems These life forms generally shift upwards along the shrub stem as the stem ages and develops, in accordance with the similar gradient hypothesis. We postulate the following sequence of events. An initial wave of colonization occurs as new substrate is laid down. Over time, superior competitors gradually engulf and overgrow competitively inferior primary colonizers. Concurrently, shrub stem microclimate changes as shrub stems grow, age, and layer, causing the processes of competition and colonization to shift in favor of different epiphytic life forms during different life stages of the shrub stem. We define four separate shrub stem life stages: life classes 1-4 describe, respectively, young upright 'whips'; vigorous, upright, mature stems; declining stems beginning to bend towards the forest floor; and horizontal, decadent stems. As space on the shrub stem is filled through growth and colonization, interspecific competition intensifies. Successful competitors persist and spread, while poor competitors are increasingly restricted to the stem tips, where interspecific competition is less intense. In these forests, Usnea, green-algal foliose lichens, and moss tufts excel as the primary colonizers and become common on the outer portions of shrub stems over time, as long as the overstory is not too dense. Moss mats are also good primary colonizers, but excel as secondary colonizers, often coming to dominate decadent shrub stems. Although all life forms can be primary colonizers, the remaining forms (cyanolichens, liverworts, and Antitrichia curtipen-dula) are effective secondary colonizers. Liverworts are also effective competitors, but less so than the moss mats on the most decadent stems. Cyanolichens appear to benefit from the aging and decline of shrub stems. The ability of vine maple to continually generate new young stems through basal sprouting and layering make it a varied and dynamic substrate for epiphytes. Such shrubs may act as epiphyte dispersal agents, with the potential to affect epiphyte continuity within forest stands that have experienced large disturbances.
10.2307/3244436|The suitability of lichens as bioindicators of geothermal air pollution was evaluated in central Italy. Fifty-one sites were sampled in the Travale-Radicondoli geothermal field, an area of about 15 km
20061093|The genus Hypnodontopsis is represented by three extant species, all with a very limited distribution. One was described as H. mexicana (Thr.) Robins., only known from single localities in Mexico and Uganda, another is H. apiculata Iwats. and Nog., only known from a small area in Japan, and the last is H. spathulata H. Akiyama and A. Tanaka, recently described from Burma. The genus was, however, present in the Eocene (ca 45-58 myr bp) with five species; one of which is identical to the extant H. mexicana and is the most common moss in Baltic amber. All fossil species are illustrated and described. They are distinguished by variation of character states such as apiculate, lingulate, and piliferous leaves. The fact that the genus consisted of five (known) species in Tertiary, some of them very common, but only three extant species, which are quite rare, shows a decline of species number and frequency.
10.2307/3244207|Orthotrichum euryphyllum Vent. is distinct from Orthotrichum rivulare Turn. and O. sprucei Mont. It includes as a synonym O. epapillosum Lawt. & Herm., and is a species of springs and streamheads on volcanic plateaus in the semi-desert areas of Washington, Oregon, and northeastern California. In contrast, Orthotrichum rivulare is found in stream courses mostly in humid to perhumid, near-coastal areas. In addition to this radically different ecology, Orthotrichum euryphyllum has morphologic features that place it close to the European O. sprucei from which, however, it differs in cucullate leaf apices; strong costa often sinuose distally; and tighter, taller tufts. Compared with Orthotrichum rivulare, O. euryphyllum has larger cells; leaves that are elliptic-lanceolate without a clear distinction between an ovate base and a ligulate limb; leaf cells that are smooth or nearly so; a more gracile costal transverse-section; and entire leaf margins whose apices are abaxially quite cucullate.
10.2307/3242311|A new species, Parmelina manipurensis K. P. Singh, is described on the basis of material from Manipur, India. It is related to P. wallichiana (Tayl.) Hale.
40732291|Forest structural characteristics manipulated by alternative thinning treatments were associated with increases in cyanolichen and alectorioid species richness and changes in lichen community compositions. At two sites in moist conifer forests of western Oregon, lichen community monitoring plots were established before thinning treatments; the most diverse plots in each treatment were retained as diversity islands whereas the less diverse plots were treated in the thinning prescription. We resampled these plots approximately 10 years after thinning. At one site we found that lichen communities in diversity plots were quite similar to those in the surrounding treated forest and that the proportion of Tsuga heterophylla in the stand was negatively associated with alectorioid and cyanolichen richness. At both sites, hardwood gaps and open-grown trees were positively associated with cyanolichen species richness. At the other site, surrounding plots were more like diversity "leave-islands" after thinning than before. Furthermore, thinned plots had more hardwood gaps following the thinning. These thinned plots hosted more Bryoria, Candelaria concolore Leptogium polycarpum, Peltigera collina, Nephroma laevigatum and Physcia temila than had been observed prior to thinning. We concluded that thinning treatments retaining remnants, open-grown trees and hardwood gaps have potential to favor lichen communities rich in cyanolichen and alectorioid species.
10.2307/3243543|Fissidens neonii (Bartr.) Grout is reported for the first time from Alabama. New county records are given for F. asplenioides, F. fontanus, and F. grandifrons.
20110754|The genetic combinations between mycobionts and photobionts in Parmotrema tinctorum collected from ca. 60 km of the Shimizu district, of Shizuoka City in Japan was investigated based on ITS rDNA sequences. This lichen produces apothecia quite rarely, and in principle propagates vegetatively by isidia. The genetic diversity of the mycobiont comprised four types, while that of the photobiont comprised 21 types. There were 28 different combinations between mycobiont and photobiont. All the photobionts were identified as Trebouxia corticola (s. lat.), based on both molecular phylogenetic results and morphological observation of culture strains obtained in this study. Therefore, P. tinctorum is considered to be highly selective toward the photobiont. The 28 combinations from the small area represent an unexpectedly high diversity, because P. tinctorum is thought to propagate vegetatively. Four possible mechanisms to account the high genetic combinations are suggested: i.e., photobiont exchange, fusion of thalli, and long-distance dispersal of isidia or ascospores. The genetic diversity of photobionts was poor in the urban area, but rich in suburbs and mountainsides. This might be caused by a bottleneck or founder effect in the population recovering from former damage by heavy air pollution, or variable selectivity of P. tinctorum depending on the environments.
40732297|Lecanographa insolita is described as new to science based on collections from the Channel Islands of southern California and an isolated coastal redwood forest in central California, U. S. A. Placement of this normally sterile species in the genus Lecanographa is supported by secondary chemistry and the anatomy of sterile ascoma found on a single thallus.The species has a non-filament forming coccoid photobiont rather than Trentepohlia, an apparently unique feature within the genus Lecanographa as well as the broader context of the Roccellaceae. Comparison is drawn to other members of the Roccellaceae that have byssoid thalli.
10.2307/3243941|Eighteen species of mosses are reported for the first time from mainland China, including Bryocrumia andersonii, a species heretofore known only from eastern North America.
20110817|The capacity of feathermosses to release mineral N to water and eventually recapture it back from the solution was periodically measured in several 64-hour tests. Mosses were collected from 13 locations in western Alberta, Canada, and given several pretreatments in the days leading up to the submersion of mosses in aerated distilled water. In a factorial experiment, the pre-extraction conditions were fertilized or left as controls and kept moist or allowed to dehydrate. The concentration of mineral N in the solution was monitored by withdrawing small samples of the solution for colorimetric analysis at predetermined time intervals. To assess the effects of microflora and handling damage to the moss tissues on the rate of N exchange between moss and solutions, the test was repeated firstly using a solution of antibiotics instead of water and secondly using mosses that were not given time to recover from handling. No perceptible leakage of N was recorded from fully hydrated moss tissues. Dehydrated mosses lost as much as 8% of their total N content to the solution within two hours after re-hydration, but had recovered two thirds of it within the next 16 hours. Moss tested immediately after normal handling released 0.7% of their total N and recovered it at the same rate as the desiccation-damaged mosses. Application of antibiotics affected neither leakage nor re-absorption rate. During the gradual drying of moss, N apparently shifted from
10.2307/3243199|Insect-mediated spore dispersal was quantified for Splachnum ampullaceum, S. rubrum, S. sphaericum, S. vasculosum, and Tetraplodon mnioides. Dipterans from the genera Scatophaga (Scatophagidae), Delia (Anthomyidae), Myospila (Muscidae), and Pyrellia (Muscidae) visited colonies and contacted sporophytes. Scatophagids, the most frequent and effective visitors, benefited from a possible increase in copulatory success as a result of visiting these plants. Measurements indicated that wind is not an effective agent of spore dispersal in S. rubrum. Consequently, spore dispersal adaptations and insect behavior are major factors restricting colonies of these mosses to organic substrates.
10.2307/3243590|Didymodon nevadensis Zand. is described as a new taxon from North America, reported from southern British Columbia, southern Nevada, northern Texas, and southern Chihuahua. The new species is distinguished from its closest relative (D. brachyphyllus (Sull.) Zand. = D. reedii Robins., syn. nov.) by the absence of a conical cell ending the costa, a wider costa at midleaf than below, the presence of a characteristic bulging ventral costal pad of cells, costal guide cells in two layers, and leaf margins loosely revolute. Study of extensive populations at the type locality in southern Nevada showed that this species is confined there to gypsiferous ridges and is presently represented only by female plants.
10.2307/3241095|An Israeli collection of the rare lichen Gonohymenia mesopotamica J. Stein. is reported and described.
10.2307/3242877| Fontinalis dalecarlica BSG from North Carolina was studied to determine the effects of photoperiod and exposure to air on archegonial production, growth, branching and rhizoids in order to develop a preliminary model for phenology. Mosses were cultured for 16 weeks in four photoperiods at 8C and 1560 lux in artificial streams. The North Carolina population of Fontinalis dalecarlica is a quantitative short day plant and produced archegonia first in the 6 hr light/18 hr dark photopheriod, but in longer photoperiods had produced an equal number by the end of 16 weeks. Long photoperiods favored growth, branching and rhizoids. Reduced growth and branching in the longest photoperiod (18 hr light/6 hr dark) suggests that light inhibition may occur on longer days. Aerated mosses produce more archegonia than submersed mosses. These observations suggest that the moss is adapted to fluctuating water levels by dispersing its gametes while the water level is low. These experiments provide a model for the timing and mechanisms of sperm dispersal that can now be tested in nature. 
20061136|A revision of the lichen genus Gomphillus Nyl. in the Americas reveals that G. caribaeus W. R. Buck does not belong in that genus, but is a member of the Pilocarpaceae in the Lecanorales. Because of its distinctive features, the species cannot be accommodated in any of the known genera of that family, and the new genus Bryogomphus Lcking, W. R. Buck, Srus. & L. I. Ferraro is established for it. Bryogomphus is characterized by turbinate, vertically elongate, obconical apothecia with a disc-shaped top, anastomosing paraphyses forming a reticulum around individual asci, amyloid asci of the Sporopodium-type, and filiform, multiseptate ascospores. Most similar within the Pilocarpaceae is Bapalmuia marginalis, but that species differs in having unbranched, strongly coherent paraphyses and Byssoloma-type asci with a darker tubular structure in the tholus. Calopadia turbinata (Tuck.) Srus. & Lcking comb. nov. is also related but has a paraplectenchymatous excipulum, largely unbranched paraphyses, and oblong-ellipsoid, muriform ascospores. Bryogomphus shows a remarkable convergence with Gomphillus in the Gomphillaceae (Ostropales), being extremely similar even in many details, except for the amyloid asci, slightly thicker and irregularly bent paraphyses, externally thinly byssoid excipulum with labyrinthical structure, and disc-shaped top of the apothecia.
3244573|Ten species of Ramalina Ach. are reported from the Kuril Islands, Far Eastern Russia. This is the first complete account of the Ramalina distribution from Japan to the Russian peninsula of Kamchatka. The Ramalina flora of the Kuril Islands represents a unique combination of species found in outlying areas, and the distribution of individual species throughout the archipelago corresponds with changes in island size, proximity to larger bodies of land, and climate.
10.2307/3241947|Seventeen species of Sphagnum are reported from the northern Rocky Mountains of the United States. Sphagnum centrale C.Jens. and S. contortum K.F.Schultz are first reported for the conterminous western United States. Only Sphagnum mendocinum Sull. & Lesq. has oceanic distributional tendencies, the remaining species are continentally or widely distributed.
10.2307/3243495|Brachydontium notorogenes is described from Parque Nacional do Itatiaia in southeastern Brazil. It is distinguished from all other species in the genus by the combination of longsubulate leaves and eperistomate capsules.
10.2307/3241622|Range extensions of Alectoria minuscula Nyl., Baeomyces rufus (Huds.) Rebent., Omphalodiscus krascheninnikovii (Sav.) Schol., and Peltula zahlbruckneri (Hasse) Wetm. are noted. Cornicularia normoerica (Gunn.) D. R. and Normandina pulchella (Borr.) Nyl. are newly reported from California.
40982988|Six species of Punctelia with black lower surface lacking vegetative propagules are taxonomically revised. Lectotypes are designated for P. borrerina, P. microsticta and Parmelia borren var. allophyla. Punctelia involuta Canez & Marcelii is described as new. Punctelia borren var.allophyla Kremp. is regarded as a synonym of P. borrerina (Nyl.) Krog, instead of P. microsticta (Mll. Arg.) Krog, as previously thought. Punctelia jujensis Adler is recorded for the first time for Brazil. All the species of this group occur in Brazil.
41289772|Erioderma mollissimum is a rare cyanolichen found on the foggy Atlantic coast of Canada. The rarity of E. mollissimum and the potential threat from human impact has led to conservation concern for this species in Canada. Recent finds on the island of Newfoundland suggest that the distribution of E. mollissimum may be wider than historically known. In order to better understand the environmental factors affecting distribution and to direct future search efforts a Mahalanobis predictive distribution model using a geographical information system (GIS) was developed for Atlantic Canada. The model suggests that only a small part of this region is suitable for E. mollissimum. This study provides an example of an alternative modeling technique to the traditional statistical methods for predicting lichen distribution.
3244949| Streptocolea atrata (Miel. ex Hornsch.) Ochyra & arnowiec, a species better known as Grimmia atrata Miel. ex Hornsch., is reported from the Yukon Territory. This is the first record of the species in western North America and the third one from the whole continent. The Yukon plants are briefly characterized and some of their diagnostic characters are illustrated. The global distribution of S. atrata is reviewed and mapped. Comments on the generic distinctness of Streptocolea (I. Hagen) Ochyra & arnowiec are presented. 
10.2307/3242302|The western North American species of the genus Diplophyllum are treated with a key to the included taxa. Among the five species and two varieties in this work, D. taxifolium var. macrostictum is new to western North America (Alaska and Yukon) and D. plicatum is new to Oregon.
10.2307/3242091|Fascicle III of Sphagnotheca Boreali-americana is published concurrently with this article. Fifty-eight species are now represented in the exsiccata. The relationships of Sphagnum annulatum H.Lindb. to S. jensenii H.Lindb. and S. majus (Russow) C.Jens. is disscussed. Sphagnum annulatum is considered a distinct species.
10.2307/3241843|Desmatodon ellesmerensis is described and illustrated as a new moss species from northern Ellesmere Island, Arctic Canada. Its distinguishing characteristics are strongly revolute leaves which are densely papillose, percurrent costa swollen towards the apex, compact areolation, and the presence of multicellular filaments in the leaf axils. Its discovery emphasizes the importance of northern Ellesmere Island to bryogeography in the High Arctic.
10.2307/3242645|Two species of Hygrohypnum are described as new from Mexico: H. robinsonii has falcate-secund, slenderly acuminate leaves with a short, double costa, small alar cells, and serrulate tips; H. arsenei has falcate-secund, slenderly acuminate leaves with a single costa, enlarged alar cells, and entire margins.
20110936|Gibberellins are phytohormones that are essential for proper growth and development of flowering plants. In bryophytes, however, the presence of gibberellins has not been firmly established, because previous reports of gibberellin-like activities were not accompanied by definitive chemical identification. By comparison, the other classical phytohormones auxin, cytokinin, abscisic acid and ethylene have been unambiguously detected in both mosses and liverworts, and their functions have been demonstrated to be very similar to those in flowering plants. The study of gibberellins in bryophytes lagged behind those of other phytohormones presumably because of the bewildering complexity and diversity in their chemical structures. In addition, working with bryophytes becomes even more challenging given their small size and the lack of obvious developmental mutants in the gibberellin signaling pathway. On the other hand, the recent sequencing of the Physcomitrella patens genome provides exciting opportunities to tackle this problem. Genes that may be involved in gibberellin biosynthesis have now been identified, paving the way for molecular genetic experiments that could reveal the role of gibberellins in bryophyte development. As bryophytes represent the earliest diverging lineages of land plants, such studies can also provide insights into how the gibberellin pathway may have evolved in the course of land plant evolution.
10.2307/3242647|Pseudoscleropodium purum has been discovered in southeastern Michigan, the first report from the interior of North America.
10.2307/3242393|Sphagnum andersonianum sp. nov. is a new, apparently rare, species of weakly minerotrophic, open mire habitats. Distinction from the closely related S. rubellum can best be made by the ovate, strongly concave, unranked, straight branch leaves and the presence of only one hanging branch per fascicle.
10.2307/3241266|Forty-nine species of leafy hepatics are reported from the Beartooth Primitive Area, Montana. Eight are new to the state.
10.2307/3244409|Plagiochila zangii sp. nov., and P. hyalodermica sp. nov., both of section Zonatae Carl from Yunnan, China are described and illustrated. The following species are new records for China: Plagiochila durelii Schiffn., P. nitens Inoue, P. pseudorenitens Steph., P. retusa Mitt. and P. stevensiana Steph. The female plants of P. eberhardtii Steph. and P. monalata Inoue as well as the male plant of P. oblonga Inoue are illustrated and described for the first time.
10.2307/3242136|Sphagnum cuspidatum Ehrh. ex Hoffm., S. molle Sull., and S. recurvum (Russ.) Warnst. sensu lato are reported as new to Texas, increasing the number of Sphagnum species known from Texas to ten. The range of Sphagnum taxa now includes twenty-seven Texas counties. Notes on habitats for each species and a list of state and county records are provided.
40982956|Karyological observations were made on 35 species belonging to 15 genera of Lejeuneaceae (Jungermanniopsida, Marchantiophyta) from China and Singapore. The chromosome numbers of 26 species representing five genera (Colma, Lepidolejeunea, Lopholejeunea, Schiffneriolejeunea, and Tuyamaella) are reported for the first time. The karyotype of an additional 13 species are presented. The length and width of the largest chromosomes and the smallest ones are provided. For Lejeuneaceae, four sets of chromosomes n = 8, n = 9, n = 10 and n = 16 have been reported. However, no classification based on the karyological data present here, could be derived.
10.2307/3243282|Two species of Rectolejeunea (R. olivacea (Steph.), comb. nov. and R. brittoniae Evans) are reported from western ghats, India. The former was earlier known from the eastern Himalayas only as R. subacuta whereas the latter is a new record for India.
10.2307/3243908|Pterygoneurum compactum sp. nov. is described and illustrated from Spain (Iberian Peninsula), where it grows on saline and gypsiferous soils. The new species is similar in habit to P. crossidioides Frey et al. but differs as discussed.
10.2307/3241922|Alar cells of Rhacomitrium lawtonae Irel. are taxonomically useful to distinguish this species from others in the genus.
10.2307/3243608|Six new taxa are described from recent collections made from the Philippines (Mindoro, Mindanao), Borneo (Mt. Kinabalu), and Indonesia (Flores): Diphyscium buckii Tan, Distichophyllum noguchianum Tan, Gammiella touwii Tan, Hageniella hattoriana Tan, Mittenia plumula var. gigantea Tan, and Papillidiopsis koponenii Tan. A new section, Platyovatophyllum, is proposed in Distichophyllum to accommodate D. iwatsukianum Nog. and D. noguchianum. Gammiella tonkinensis (Broth. & Par.) Tan is a new combination and Stereodon tenuirameus Mitt. is recognized as a species of Brotherella. Mittenia plumula is both a new generic and species record for Borneo.
10.2307/3244531|A bioclimatic model based on bryophyte species distribution and abundance relative to climate was coupled with climatic and geographical data obtained from Leemans and Cramer (1991) and the Canadian Climate Center (CCC) General Circulation model (GCM) at 1XCO
10.2307/3243870|Epiphyte biomass on branches and trunks was estimated for 42 individual felled trees, distributed among three Pseudotsuga menziesii-Tsuga heterophylla stands aged 95,145, and 400+ years, in the western Cascade Range of Oregon and Washington, then extrapolated to the whole stands by regression techniques. Epiphytes were sorted into four groups defined by ecological roles rather than taxonomy: cyanolichens, alectorioid lichens, other lichens, and bryophytes. In general the spatial sequence of dominance of these four groups, from upper canopy to forest floor, was: "other" lichens, alectorioid lichens, cyanolichens, and bryophytes. The zones of these functional groups of epiphytes apparently migrate upward in forests through time. For example the Hypogymnia and Platismatia that dominate throughout canopies in young forests are found primarily in the upper canopies of old forests. Similarly, bryophytes enter a stand near the forest floor and gradually expand their dominance upwards. Epiphyte biomass was greatest in the old-growth stand, with about 2.6 t/ha. In the two younger stands total epiphyte biomass was about 1 t/ha. The old-growth stand differed from the younger stands in having over 1 t/ha of cyanolichens, while this group was essentially absent from the younger stands. As a synthesis of these and previous results, a similar gradient hypothesis is proposed: epiphyte species are ordered similarly on three distinct spatial and temporal gradients: 1) vertical differences in species composition within a given stand, 2) species compositional differences among stands differing in moisture regime but of the same age, and 3) changes in species composition through time in a given stand.
10.2307/3241120|The chromosome number of Bryum criberrimum (n = 10) is reported for the first time and Barbula unguiculata (n = 14 + 2m) is the first North American report. Dicranum sabuletorum (n = 12), Leskea gracilescens (n = 11), and L. obscura (n = 11) are reported for the second time. Corroborative counts are given for Weissia controversa (n = 13), Grimmia apocarpa (n = 14), and Mnium cuspidatum (n = 12). Counts for Amblystegium juratzkanum (n = 20) and Atrichum angustatum (n = 8) differ from most other reports for these species.
10.2307/3241231| Three hundred and fifty-six taxa of lichens are reported from the Reindeer Preserve in the northwestern part of Continental Northwest Territories where the lichen flora is little known. The following fifty taxa are new to North America: Ahlesia sphaerospora (Magn.) Salisb., Alectoria lanestris (Ach.) Gyeln., Bacidia cf. herbarum (Stiz.) Arn., B. illudens (Nyl.) Lynge, B. pallens (Kullh.) Zahlbr., B. subfuscula (Nyl.) Th. Fr., B. verecundula (Th. Fr.) Magn., Buellia immersa Lynge, Caloplaca borealis (Vain.) Poelt, C. cf. caesiorufella (Nyl.) Zahlbr., C. cf. discoidalis (Vain.) Lynge, C. cf. ferrugineofusca (Vain.) Magn., C. cf. spitsbergensis Magn., Candelariella lutella (Vain.) Rs., Gyalecta kukriensis (Rs.) Rs., Lecanora apochraeoides Vain., L. basaltica Lynge, L. kariana Rs., L. palanderi Vain., L. permutata Zahlbr., L. cf. ryrkaipiae Magn., L. symmicta var. sorediosa Westman, L. cf. torrida Vain., Lecidea albohyalina (Nyl.) Th. Fr., L. cf. epiiodiza Nyl. (=L. somphotera (Vain.) Oliv.), L. phaeopelidna Vain., L. ramulicola Magn. 1952, L. sphaerella Hedl., L. subcandida Magn., Lecidella flavisorediata (Vzda) Hert., L. pulveracea (Schaer.) Sud., Mycoblastus alpinus (Fr.) Kernst., Parmeliella corallinoides (Hoffm.) Zahlbr. var. pulvinata Magn., Pertusaria cf. trachydactyla Vain., Phaeocalicium praecedens (Nyl.) Schmidt, Polyblastia gelatinosa (Ach.) Th. Fr., P. hyperborea Th. Fr. var. macrospora Lynge, Rinodina archaeoides Magn., R. cinereovirens Vain., R. cf. lecideoides (Nyl.) Vain., R. cf. lignaria Magn., R. metaboliza Vain., R. mucronatula Magn., Thelidium absconditum (Kremp.) Rabenh., T. minimum Arn., T. velutinum (Bernh.) Krb., Toninia alutacea Anzi, Varicellaria rhodocarpa (Krb.) Th. Fr., Verrucaria scotina Wedd., V. cf. sphinctrina Ach. The following five taxa are new to Canada: Arthonia intexta Almq., Cladonia granulans Vain., Ochrolechia gyalectina (Nyl.) Zahlbr., Ramalina almquistii Vain., Zahlbrucknerella calcarea (Herre) Herre. The new combination Cladonia gracilis var. nigripes (Nyl. in Norrl.) Ahti is made. The taxonomic relationship of Ochrolechia gyalectina and O. inaequatula (Nyl.) Zahlbr. is discussed. The list also includes annotations on other species. 
23321065|A monograph and the first phylogenetic study of the moss genus Hymenodon (Orthodontiaceae: Bryophyta) is presented based on morphological and molecular data. Evolutionary patterns are evaluated using phylogenetic analyses that incorporate newly acquired and assembled morphological (30 characters) and molecular sequence (rps4 gene and partial rps4-trnS intergenic non-coding spacer) data. Parsimony and maximum likelihood methods were applied for phylogenetic analyses using Leptotheca boliviana, L. gaudichaudii, Orthodontium lineare, and Orthodontopsis bardunovii as outgroups. The genus Hymenodon and sect. Hymenodon were both found to be monophyletic, whereas Hymenodon sect. Polystichella was found to be paraphyletic; thus, the sections are not upheld in this new classification. Hymenodon chenianus was nested within the H. pilifer subspecies. As Hymenodon chenianus is morphologically unique, and there are several characters that can distinguish each subspecies of H. pilifer, H. pilifer subsp. sericeus and H. pilifer subsp. tenellus are reclassified at the species level, as H. sericeus and H. tenellus, making a total of eight accepted Hymenodon species. Six species occur in Australasia (Malesia, southeastern Australia, Tasmania, New Zealand, and New Caledonia), while two species are found only in the Neotropics (one in continental Latin America and one in the Caribbean). The known range of Hymenodon aeruginosus is extended into Panama, Colombia, and Paraguay. Taxonomic history, synonymy, species descriptions, distribution, habitat information, and a dichotomous key to the species are provided.
10.2307/3241941|New data on the mosses of northern Ellesmere Island are presented, raising its known moss flora to 166 species. Coscinodon cribrosus (Hedw.) Spruce and Orthotrichum pallens Bruch ex Brid. are new to the flora of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago; Dicranum angustum Lindb., Didymodon johansenii (Williams) Crum, Hygrohypnum ochraceum (Turn. ex Wils.) Loeske, Pterygoneurum arcticum Steere and Trematodon brevicollis Hornsch. are new to Ellesmere Island. Eight other species are new to the moss flora of northern Ellesmere Island, and new records of several other rare arctic species are documented. A new combination, Cratoneuron filicinum (Hedw.) Spruce var. arcticum (Steere) Brass., is made. Polysety is reported for the first time in the genus Aloina.
10.2307/3243829|Changes to the "Fifth Checklist of the Lichen-Forming, Lichenicolous and Allied Fungi of the Continental United States and Canada" based on recent literature reports are presented. New taxa and synonyms are documented, and corrections in author citations and spellings are also included. The new combination Tuckermannopsis coralligera (W. Weber) W. Weber is proposed.
3244617|Bacidia nivalis, known only from the Pacific Northwest of North America, is transferred to Stereocaulon as S. nivale. This is the first report of a crustose species of Stereocaulon from North America.
3244640|Fourteen new species are described from western North America- Rinodina aurantiaca, R. badiexcipula, R. boulderensis, R. californiensis, R. endospora, R. grandilocularis, R. innata, R. juniperina, R. lignicola, R. lobulata, R. macrospora, R. pacifica, R. perreagens, and R. verruciformis. Characters on which they are based are discussed in detail and a new spore type for Rinodina is introduced. The new species are compared to others, with which they might be confused and a key provided. Rinodina dolichospora is recorded for the first time from North America.
3244158|Most reconstructions of basal land plant relationships derived from morphological or molecular data suggest that the Sphagnopsida form a critical clade at or near the base of the mosses (Bryophyta s.s.). The Sphagnopsida include two orders: Sphagnales and Ambuchananiales, each with one family. The Ambuchananiaceae is monotypic, with A. leucobryoides of Tasmania. Nucleotide sequences from five genomic regions, two from the nuclear genome (ITS and 26S nuclear ribosomal DNA) and three from the chloroplast genome (psbT, rpl16, trnL) were subjected to cladistic analyses in order to assess I) the relationship between Ambuchanania and Sphagnum, 2) the polarity of evolutionary change in Sphagnum (i.e., infer a root for the infrageneric phylogeny), 3) monophyly of the four large sections of Sphagnum (Acutifolia, Cuspidata, Sphagnum, and Subsecunda) and 4) phylogenetic relationships of the smaller or monotypic sections. Ambuchanania is resolved as the sister group to Sphagnum and is not nested within the latter as a highly derived species. Polarity of evolutionary change in Sphagnum is ambiguous; alternative hypotheses suggested by molecular data place either the sect. Subsecunda or the sect. Sphagnum as sister to all other species. The four large sections of Sphagnum are each monophyletic if circumscribed to include species traditionally placed in monotypic sections. Sphagnum macrophyllum (sect. Isocladus) is nested within the Subsecunda. Sphagnum pylaesii (sect. Hemitheca) is nested within the Cuspidata and is closely related to S. tenellum (sect. Mollusca). Sphagnum wulfianum (sect. Polyclada) is nested within the Acutifolia, closely related to S. fimbriatum and S. girgensohnii. Sphagnum aongstroemii (sect. Insulosa) is either nested within the Acutifolia, or is sister to other species of Acutifolia. Molecular evidence supports a sister group relationship between the sections Rigida and Sphagnum, and between the sections Squarrosa and Acutifolia. Molecular data suggest that phylogenetic structure in Sphagnum can be accommodated by four large sections without segregating morphologically distinctive taxa into smaller sections, as is traditionally done. A revised classification is proposed in which the genus is divided into four sections: Acutifolia, Cuspidata, Sphagnum, and Subsecunda.
10.2307/3242072| Ten lichen species are reported as new to the United States: Aulaxina quadrangula (Stirt.) Sant. apud Thorold, Bombyliospora vulpina (Nyl.) Burg., Echinoplaca pellicula (Mll.Arg.) Sant., Leptotrema lepadodes (Tuck.) Zahlbr., Lopadium fuscum Mll.Arg., Parmeliopsis subambigua Gyeln., Phaeographina quassiaecola (Fe) Mll.Arg., Phaeographis lyellii (Sm.) Zahlbr., Rinodina colobinoides (Nyl.) Zahlbr. and Stirtonia alba (Mll.Arg.) ined. An additional 43 species are reported for the first time from the state of Louisiana: Acarospora fuscata (Schrad.) Arn., A. heppii (Naeg. ex Krb.) Naeg. ex Krb., Arthonia caesia (Flot.) Krb., Bacidia chlorococca (Graewe ex Stizenb.) Lett., B. inundata (Fr.) Krb., B. naegelii (Hepp) Zahlbr., Buellia callispora (Knight) J. Stein., B. elizae (Tuck.) Tuck., B. punctata var. polyspora (Will.) Fink, Byssoloma leucoblepharum (Nyl.) Vain., Caloplaca flavovirescens (Wulf.) Dalla Torre & Sarnth., C. floridana (Tuck.) Tucker comb. nov., C. intermedia (B.deLesd.) Zahlbr., Catillaria bouteillei (Desm.) Zahlbr., Chiodecton perplexum Nyl., Diploschistes actinostomus (Pers.) Zahlbr., Endocarpon pusillum Hedw., Graphina scolecitis (Tuck.) Fink, Leptogium millegranum Sierk, Leptotrema polycarpum Mll.Arg., Lopadium puiggarii (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr., Maronea constans (Nyl.) Hepp, Ocellularia americana Hale, O. lathraea (Tuck.) Zahlbr., O. subtilis (Tuck.) Ridd., Pertusaria amara (Ach.)Nyl., P. copiosa Erichs., P. leucostoma (Bernh.) Mass., P. ostiolata Dibb., P. pustulata (Ach.) Duby, P. sinusmexicani Dibb., P. tetrathalamia (Fe) Nyl., P. texana Mll.Arg., Phaeophyscia rubropulchra (Degel.) Moberg, Polychidium dendriscum (Nyl.) Henss., Rinodina granuligera Magn., R. milliaria Tuck., R. ochrocea Will., Sarcogyne clavus (Ram.) Kremp., Sphinctrina tubaeformis Mass., Thelotrema sanfordianum Zahlbr. and Tricharia melanothrix Fe. A lichen parasite, Pyrenotrichum splitgerberi Mont., is newly reported for Louisiana. One new combination, Caloplaca floridana (Tuck.) Tucker, is made. Notes concerning distribution and substrates are provided for the species which are range extensions and also for an additional 35 species which are rarely collected or insufficiently documented. 
10.2307/3243281| Andreaea sinuosa has no close relatives and is characterized by narrowly lanceolate, ecostate leaves with incurved margins; small spores, 11-21 m, as small as any in the genus; and by basal leaf cells with sinuose walls (as in Racomitrium), which are not known for other ecostate Andreaeae. Very rare and widely disjunct in northwestern North America and northwestern Europe, it occurs in mountainous regions with an oceanic climate on exposed rock, often in snow-beds. A key to ecostate Andreaeae of North America and Europe is provided. 
10.2307/3242221| Thirty-six lichens collected in Arazat, SW Uruguay are reported. Graphina nylanderiana Zahlbr., Parmelia borrerioides Nyl., Usnea dichroa Mot. var. spinulosa Mot. and Phaeographis pezizoidea (Ach.) Mll. Arg. are new to the known flora of Uruguay. 
10.2307/3242805|Venturiella sinensis var. angusti-annulata Griff. & Sharp is reported for the first time from Arkansas.
10.2307/3242532|Copper concentrations in the substrate and tissue of Mielichhoferia elongata and other "copper mosses" from Britain are compared with those in other moss species. It is shown that the amounts of copper in the tissues and substrates of these "copper mosses" is not unusual and that, at best, Mielichhoferia elongata is a facultative cuprophile. It is suggested that, in Britain at least, copper is not an important factor controlling the distribution of "copper mosses" and that this latter term is therefore inappropriate. The uniqueness of these species probably lies in the ability to tolerate very low soil-water pH and high concentration of sulphate ions and in the peculiar microclimate regimes of their niches.
10.2307/3243435|This study examines the developmental basis of morphological variation in the lichen Ramalina menziesii Tayl., whose thallus varies from highly reticulate forms typical of inland populations to fine dissected forms characteristic of coastal habitats. Development was studied microphotographically at two coastal field sites and compared with previous studies carried out at an inland site. In all three populations nets developed from perforate buds, enlarged by diffuse expansion, and produced new reticulate tissue from the inrolled apical margin. However, nets of coastal thalli showed greater degrees of perforation and expansion within the young tissue of the apex. Frequently, damage to these weaker apices disrupted the production of new reticulations at an early stage of net growth. Subsequent expansion of disrupted reticulations and proliferation of daughter nets at the broken ends appeared to accentuate gross morphological differences. Two types of deviation from the basic pattern of bud development were also seen occasionally in all populations examined.
10.2307/3243800|The Bartramiaceae have been defined by unique apple-shaped capsules. The present study deals with the branch development pattern of each genus of the Bartramiaceae to know if the family is consistent in the feature. As a result, it appears that all genera have the Climacium-type of branch development except Catoscopium. This supports the opinion that the Bartramiaceae are monophyletic and also suggests a remote relationship of Catoscopium to the other members of the Bartramiaceae. The Bartramiaceae have long been classified under the suborder Bryineae. The other families of the Bryineae, however, show Bryum-type branch development except the Timmiaceae. This might indicate that both the Bartramiaceae and Timmiaceae should be separated from the Bryineae.
10.2307/3240955|Pseudoscleropodium purum occurs in luxuriant condition in the interior of St. Helena, where it is probably adventive. Used as a commercial packing material, the species was observed being transported from St. Helena to Tristan de Cunha.
3244818|We here report 359 species in 103 genera from Yellowstone National Park. We found 71.3% of the total number of species in Picea engelmannii forests and 57.4% of the total number in Pseudotsuga menziesii stands. This compares to 42.3% of the species in Pinus contorta and 37.0% of the species in Pinus contorta/Pinus albicaulis stands. The presence of old Pseudotsuga menziesii and mature Picea engelmannii indicates that the forests have not burned for at least 300 yr, contributing to higher lichen diversity. The drier lodgepole pine and whitebark pine forests burn more frequently than every 300 yr and have fewer microhabitats for lichen growth. Species with thalli large enough to identify are beginning to recolonize substrates burned in the 1988 fires. Bryoria fremontii and Letharia vulpina exhibit levels of mercury and sulfur higher than those in other specimens in the region.
10.2307/3240628|Seventy-one species of mosses are reported from Mississippi, 70 of them for the first time.
43188695|Two new genera, Myriochapsa M. Gceres, Lcking & Lumbsch and Nitidochapsa Parnmen, Lcking & Lumbsch, are introduced for the species Chapsa psoromica and C. leprieurii, which are not genuine Chapsa species but related to Myriotrema and Ocellularia, respectively. The following two new combinations are proposed: Myriochapsa psoromica (M. Cceres, Santos de Jesus & Santos Vieira) M. Cceres, Lcking & Lumbsch comb, nov., and Nitidochapsa leprieurii (Mont.) Parnmen, Lcking & Lumbsch comb. nov. Myriochapsa psoromica is morphologically and chemically similar to Myriotrema species but differs in the wider apothecial pore with fissured-lobulated margin; it is known only from the western Amazon (Brazil: Rondnia). Nitidochapsa leprieurii is characterized by a brown, nitidous thallus and Chapsa-like apothecia with wide, pruinose disc and lobulate to recurved, felty, white margin; it has brown ascospores and lacks secondary compounds. The species is pantropical. The interpretation of phenotype characters in a molecular phylogenetic framework is discussed.
3244346|Lecanora thysanophora R. C. Harris, n. sp. is described. It is a common lichen in eastern North America, most often found as a sterile corticolous crust, but apothecia are not uncommon when the species grows along streams. Besides being recognizable in the field, it is distinctive chemically, containing usnic acid, zeorin, often porphyrilic acid, and several species-specific terpenoids.
10.2307/3240608| Of the five Sphagna reported from Indochina, the four species Sphagnum erythrocalyx Hampe ex C. Mll., S. thailandense B. Hans., S. cuspidatum Ehrh. in Hoffm., and S. luzonense Warnst. are new to South Vietnam and represent the first report of the genus from that country. 
20110777|This work investigates the phylogenetic relationships within Grimmia Hedw. using 33 species of Grimmia and ten outgroup species from the Funariidae and the Dicranidae using a combination of two molecular markers and 52 morphological and anatomical characters. Plastid (trnL-trnF and rps4) DNA sequences were used to reconstruct the molecular phylogeny of Grimmia. The 33 chosen Grimmia species represented the majority of those found in Europe and Asia. An analysis using rps4 and trnL-trnF with six outgroup species supported the monophyly of the Grimmiaceae. The combined analysis of both plastid markers and morphological characters also resolved the Grimmiaceae as monophyletic. The results indicate that Grimmia, as currently defined, is paraphyletic. Two main clades were present, one that contained the species traditionally placed in the subgenus Rhabdogrimmia Limpr. and one that contained the remaining Grimmia species.
10.2307/3242479| High ash yields from some samples of Parmelia chlorochroa Tuck. are shown by x-ray diffraction techniques to be due not to contamination by soil but to large amounts of calcium oxalate accumulated within the tissue. Ashing at 450 C decomposes the calcium oxalate to calcite. High ash yields are thus biogenic and directly related to calcium oxalate content. 
10.2307/3240743|The main factors influencing seta elongation in Pellia epiphylla appear to be temperature and soil water tension. These factors affect both the rate of elongation and the final length of the structure produced. Day temperature seems to be more important than night temperature for reasons not yet defined. Light intensity stimulates elongation, especially at lower light intensities, but day length has no effect. Atmospheric humidity has a marked effect on capsule dehiscence.
10.2307/3243937| We describe herein a new electrophoretic procedure for the comparative analysis of AGPs. It employs glyoxyl agarose, which enables AGPs to be "fixed" by crosslinking them to the gels, and -glucosyl Yariv reagent as a diagnostic stain. The AGPs of four widely separated species, Scapania nemorosa (L.) Dum., Gymnocolea inflata (Huds.) Dum., Jungermannia leiantha Grolle, and Plagiochila arctica Bryhn & Kaal., were compared by this procedure. The pattern of AGPs for each species was distinctly different. 
10.2307/3244535| Strigula maritima H. Harada is described as new. It is characterized by having a  epilithic thallus, perithecia with a blackish involucrellum, 1-septate ascospores (15-26 x 4-6 m), and two types of pycnidia, one with 1-septate macroconidia (15-19 x 2-4 m) and the other with simple microconidia (2-3 x ca 1 m), and by growing on siliceous seashore rocks. It was found in the splash zone on Inno-shima Island in Seto Inland Sea, Hiroshima-ken, western Japan. 
25614880|The California endemic species described as Schiymenium shevockii A. J. Shaw is transferred to the genus Mielichhoferia because phylogenetic analyses have shown that peristome structure (exostomial versus endostomial) is not a reliable character for distinguishing these two genera.
10.2307/3242536|Fabronia donnellii Aust., known only from the type collection in Florida, can be referred to the synonymy of Meiothecium tenerum Mitt. Descriptions, illustrations and comments on mechanisms of spore dispersal (under moist conditions) are given.
10.2307/3240945| In species of Anthoceros, Phaeoceros, and Notothylas, photoperiod is the critical environmental factor in the initiation of antheridia while temperature (10-25C) has little effect. 
10.2307/3242138|Clasmatocolea verrucosa Engel, noted for its huge cuticular verrucae, is described as new from Tasmania.
20110875|Lejeunea huctumalcensis (Lejeuneaceae), a species widely distributed in the Neotropics, is characterized by the presence of ocelli in leaf lobes, innovations of lejeuneoid-and pycnolejeuneoid-type, perianths with five entire to ramified laciniae and vegetative reproduction via regenerants and caducous leaves. The species is a member of Lejeunea subgenus Otigoniolejeunea. Lejeunea acanthotis, L. schizotis, L. xiphotis and Ceratolejeunea dussiana are proposed as new synonyms of L. huctumalcensis. The relation of this species to Ceratolejeunea and other genera is discussed. Lejeunea huctumalcensis is described and illustrated.
10.2307/3240519|Fissidens hyalinus Hook. & Wils., disjunct in Japan and the eastern United States, is reported as new to Louisiana. Male plants of this species are described for the first time.
10.2307/3243149|A new type of branch has been studied in three species of the genus Aphanolejeunea (Hepaticae). The Aphanolejeunea-type branch is similar to the Lejeunea-type branch of the closely allied genus Cololejeunea. The branch initial in the Aphanolejeunea-type branch is a superficial cortical cell, while the branch initial in the Lejeunea-type branch is a cortical cell-derivative enclosed by leaf brace cells.
10.2307/3241148|Tortula vectensis E. Warb. & Crundw., recently described from the Isle of Wight, is reported as new to North America upon collections from southern Louisiana. The Louisiana plants, like the British ones, are sterile, and bear archegonia but no antheridia. Reproduction is apparently by means of tuber-like, rhizoidal gemmae. Similarities in the nature and distribution of T. vectensis and T. stanfordensis Steere are pointed out.
10.2307/3242137|Twenty-one lichens collected in Buenos Aires Province are enumerated. The genera Calicium, Haematomma and Sticta are reported for the province for first time; nine species are new to the known flora of Argentina.
10.2307/3244388|The moss flora of dry rainforest in north Queensland was surveyed in conjunction with a vascular plant survey. Moss species richness was strongly correlated with patch area, mean annual rainfall, and vascular plant species richness. Moss species richness rises where volcanic craters within the study area increase moisture status. Geological substrate had a stronger relationship with associations within the moss flora as defined by the TWINSPAN classificatory procedure and with individual moss species than either landform category or classificatory groups of vascular plants. The association of four species with large closed canopy patches may reflect a humid microclimate and suggests that all else being equal large patches will preserve more species than many small areas of rainforest. However, a high proportion of rare species were associated with the soil surface and there was no obvious way of predicting their locality.
10.2307/3240997|Cases of human allergy to lichens are reported. The reaction takes the form of contact dermatitis. Two patients showed positive reactions both to lichens containing usnic acid and to the pure substance.
3244701| Hypogymnia bryophila McCune is described as a new species of lichenized fungi from Portugal. Previously included under H. farinacea Zopf (syn. H. bitteriana (Zahlbr.) Rs) or H. austerodes (Nyl.) Rs., it often has terminal soralia similar to H. bitteri (Lynge) Ahti, as well as laminal soralia, but the soralia appear along edges of cracks in the cortex, similar to H. farinacea. Furthermore, the lobes are more lax and imbricate as compared to these other species. Hypogymnia bryophila is the only species of the 85 known in this genus that contains protocetraric acid without physodalic acid. A protocetraric acid-deficient chemotype is also known. So far H. bryophila is known primarily from mossy granitic rock, rarely on Pinus pinaster, in Serra da Estrela and Serra de S. Mamede, Portugal. 
10.2307/3241562|Parmelia ajoensis (subg. Xanthoparmelia) and P. tucsonensis (subg. Xanthoparmelia) are described as new from Arizona and Sonora, Mexico. The two species are the first and second species of Xanthoparmelia to be described with diffractaic acid. This is the fourth report of diffractaic acid in the genus Parmelia.
10.2307/3244073|Twenty-three Usnea species and species groups are reported from British Columbia, Canada. Usnea chaetophora, U. diplotypus, and U. nidulans s. lat. are new to North America, whereas U. esperantiana and U. rigida s. lat. are documented for the first time for Canada, and U. ceratina and U. rubicunda are new to British Columbia. New chemotypes are also reported, e.g., in U. fragilescens var. mollis and U. subfloridana. Usnea stuppea (a synonym of U. substerilis) is lectotypified. A key to the genus Usnea in British Columbia is provided.
10.2307/3242627| The mosses Tomenthypnum nitens and Scorpidium scorpioides were treated under natural conditions in 1986 with simulated acid rain prepared with a 1:1 mixture of sulfuric and nitric acid at pH 3.5. Significant increases in growth and chlorophyll b content in T. nitens were observed in the acidic treatments, but growth and chlorophyll content of S. scorpioides were unaffected. Increase in growth of T. nitens may have resulted from the augmentation in chlorophyll content. Differences in response to simulated acid rain between T. nitens and S. scorpioides may relate to their habitats. Tomenthypnum nitens, occurring on hummocks, is microtopographically at least partially isolated from ground water influences and is usually growth-limited due to a lack of nutrients; thus it is likely to benefit from additions of nitrate and sulfate. Laboratory experiments with T. nitens and S. scorpioides sprayed with simulated acidic rain confirmed the field results. The nitrate component of acidic rain proved to be the stimulating agent to enhance growth and augment chlorophyll content. /// Les mousses Tomenthypnum nitens et Scorpidium scorpioides ont t arroses de pluies acides artificielles pendant la saison de croissance 1986 en conditions naturelles. La solution acide tait un mlange 1:1 d'acide sulfurique et nitrique. Une augmentation significative de la croissance et du contenu en chlorophylle b pour T. nitens a t observe dans les traitements acidiques. La croissance et le contenu en chlorophylle de S. scorpioides n'ont pas t affects par l'arrosage de pluies acides. La meilleure croissance de T. nitens rsulte probablement de l'augmentation du contenu en chlorophylle. Tomenthypnum nitens et S. scorpioides ont ragi diffremment au traitement acidique; ce comportement est possiblement li  leur microhabitat. Tomenthypnum nitens colonise le sommet des buttes, donc est moins influenc par les eaux de ruissellement. Ceci peut limiter la croissance de cette mousse,  cause d'un manque de nutriments. Par consquent T. nitens est la mousse la plus susceptible de bnficier des additions de nitrates et sulfates. Des expriences en laboratoires, avec T. nitens et S. scorpioides arross de pluies acides artificielles, ont confirm les rsultats obtenues en conditions naturelles. La composante nitrate des pluies acides s'est avr l'agent stimulatif de l'amlioration de la croissance et de l'augmentation du contenu en chlorophylle. 
3244922|Widespread abortion of sporophytes in the desert moss Grimmia orbicularis occurred following unusually heavy summer rainstorms in the Mojave Desert of southern Nevada. Approximately 50% of the sporophyte cohort aborted, the majority in the seta elongation phenophase. Just prior to the abortions, an August rain event equivalent to one-half of the normal annual precipitation occurred over a period of less than six hours. Abortive sporophytes were significantly shorter and had significantly less biomass than viable mature sporophytes from the same cohort. A phenological and length analysis of the sporophyte cohort indicates that the sporophyte abortions occurred over a very brief period of time. It is postulated that the stresses brought on by desiccation/rehydration cycles during the summer heat in the desert, in conjunction with the presence of an abnormally advanced phenophase (early seta elongation), may have resulted in an inability to either repair the cellular damage or resulted in insufficient nutrients for sporophyte maturation.
3244843|Sphagnum macrophyllum, S. pylaesii, and S. cyclophyllum are morphologically atypical in the genus Sphagnum and their systematic placement has been a source of controversy. The first is generally classified in the mono-specific section Isocladus, and the second as section Hemitheca. Sphagnum cyclophyllum is classified in the section Subsecunda, but several authors have hypothesized a close relationship between all three species. Nucleotide sequences from eight nuclear and chloroplast loci were obtained to test hypotheses about relationships among these taxa. Phylogenetic analyses resolve these species (along with S. microcarpum, closely related to S. cyclophyllum) in a well-supported monophyletic group within the section Subsecunda. Sphagnum macrophyllum is sister to S. cyclophyllum, S. microcarpum, and S. pylaesii. Sphagnum cyclophyllum and S. microcarpum form a clade that is sister to S. pylaesii. Two mutually monophyletic groups of populations are resolved within S. pylaesii, one including the European populations and the other including populations from eastern North America and South America. The European populations are almost identical at the nucleotide sequence level whereas the American populations are genetically diverse. Short, delicate pseudopodia; exceptionally large opercula; and an absence or near absence of pseudostomata appear to be synapomorphies for the clade containing S. macrophyllum, S. microcarpum, S. cyclophyllum, and S. pylaesii.
10.2307/3243012|Fascicle II of Campylopodes Exsiccatae is published containing 25 specimens of 18 species from 12 countries.
10.2307/3243911|The continuity of 33 northern hardwoods and spruce-fir stands in Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and western New Brunswick is assessed using indices of ecological continuity (IEC) that are based upon the percentage occurrence of ancient forest indicator lichen species found at each site. Stands are ranked according to decreasing IEC value, with results confirming the ancient forest status of 12 of the 15 previously investigated old-growth forest sites included in the investigation. The data also show that epiphytic lichen floras become richer over time, with older stands harboring more rare species, and suggest that the total number of Caliciales species collected at a site may, in itself, be an indicator of continuity.
10.2307/3240670|The known range of Phylliscum demangeonii (Moug. & Nestl. ex Mont.) Nyl. is extended south to the Southern Appalachians. Pilophoron cereolus (Ach.) Th. Fr., also found in the Southern Appalachians, was previously known from Mexico and the northern United States. In contrast, the range of Parmelia densirhizinata Kurok. is extended northward from South and Central America to Mexico. Anaptychia microphylla (Kurok.) Kurok. (new to North America) and Anzia ornata (new to the Philippines) show classic distribution patterns involving eastern North America and eastern Asia. Cladonia formosa Asah. is a synonym of Cladonia subpityrea Sandst., a species showing a disjunctive distribution between eastern Asia and the mountains of Mexico and Guatemala. Anzia americana (a new species) and Pseudevernia cladonia (Tuck.) Hale and W. Culb. (new to Mexico) show a disjunctive distribution between the Southern Appalachians and the Mexican highlands.
10.2307/3240491|The new species Umbilicaria saviczii is described from Antarctica.
10.2307/3243696|Fontinalis redfearnii, a new species from Oklahoma, is similar to F. sullivantii but differs by its larger size, stiff stems, stem leaves with obtuse apices, and stiffly-patent stem leaves.
23321034|The epiphytic lichen flora in the semi-deciduous forest of Monte Barranca, Santiago de Cuba differs between the edge and interior due to differences in light levels. Four transects of 50 m were establish: two on the edge and two on the interior. Sixty randomly-chosen trees were surveyed, fifteen trees in each transect. The trees were sampled from the ground to two meters in height. Seventy-four corticolous lichen species were recorded, including 51 newly recorded for Cuba. Reproductive strategies were as varied for those lichens on the edge of the forest as for those in the interior, but most of the species were reproducing sexually. Porina distans, a generalist species, is highly adapted to the Monte Barranca semi-deciduous forest.
10.2307/3241557|Xanthoria parietina has been chemically investigated with special regard to its content of an unknown ninhydrin-positive compound. This was identified as a derivative of tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol and has not been previously detected in biological material.
3244135|This is a preliminary study of a group of North American taxa of Lecanora occurring on bark and containing usnic or isousnic acid and having a yellow, yellow-green, or greenish thalli. The group is regarded as L. varia s. lato and, based on species examined, a proposal is offered to delimit the following smaller groups: L. varia group s.str.; L. expallens group s. lato with L. strobilina and L. expallens group s.str.; and the L. saligna group. Two new subspecies (L. varia subsp. densa and L. varia subsp. laxa) are described. A key for the taxa studied is presented. Some suggestions for future research are outlined.
41289805|A new species,. Caudalejeunea tridentata (Lejeuneaceae) from Southwestern China, is described and illustrated. It differs from other Caudalejeunea species mainly in its bulging trigones and compound oil bodies. A key to Asian species of Caudalejeunea is provided.
10.2307/3243799| Usnic acid appears to be a constant secondary product of all chemotypes of the Ramalina siliquosa species complex. Its highly variable concentrations and apparent absence from some individuals are due to a preferential accumulation in apothecia and spermagonia, structures not necessarily included equally in all samples in routine chemical screenings. In a specimen of one chemotype analyzed in detail, the proportion of usnic acid to the -orcinol depsidone protocetraric acid was, surprisingly, highest in the pruina covering the outer surface of the apothecial disk and lowest, as expected, in the medulla. Elsewhere in the thallus, usnic acid accumulates in the spermagonia and contributes insignificantly to the color of the thallus. If usnic acid functions as a sun screen or allelopathic agent here, it is protecting reproductive structures rather than the algal symbiont as often proposed for this substance in lichens in which it occurs in tissues over the algae. 
10.2307/3241573|Parmelia ultralucens, a new Amphigymnia species with unique chemical properties (atranorin in the cortex, salazinic acid and lichexanthone in the medulla) is described. The name Parmelia subcrinita Nyl. must be rejected as a long-standing source of confusion (Code, Art. 69).
10.2307/3240610|Barbula johansenii Williams, previously known from only a few high arctic localities (Victoria Island, the Brooks Range of Alaska, and the Lena River of eastern Siberia) where it is undoubtedly relict from a pre-Pleistocene flora, has been found far to the south in the Canadian Rocky Mountains. Although it is possible that B. johansenii weathered the Pleistocene in some local mountainous nunatak, it seems more likely that it is derived from a more southern, unglaciated portion of the Rocky Mountains.
20110873|We used rope techniques to access epiphyte communities on nine large and structurally complex redwoods (Sequoia sempervirens) occupying old-growth forest reserves of northwestern California. All species of epiphytic lichens, bryophytes and vascular plants were recorded, biomass of dominant vascular epiphytes (Polypodium scouleri and Vaccinium ovatum) was quantified, and tree crowns were mapped to estimate substrate surface areas. We employed a flexible, plot-based sampling regime defined by available microhabitats within height strata to search for epiphytes. All substrates were examined, including tree surfaces, canopy soils and perennially exposed surfaces of epiphytic vascular plants as well as forest floor vegetation, woody debris and terrestrial soils beneath the redwood crowns. Combined arboreal and terrestrial search efforts revealed 282 species, including 183 lichens, 50 bryophytes and 49 vascular plants. Beta diversities for plots aggregated by floristic group, stratum and substrate type were generally high, indicating a large proportion of infrequent species. Indirect ordination analysis suggested that an environmental gradient from exposed to sheltered habitats was the strongest factor controlling epiphyte community structure. Floristic groups, strata and substrates were highly segregated along the dominant compositional gradient. Chlorolichens, upper crown strata and redwood foliage occupied one end, while vascular plants, forest floor strata and terrestrial woody debris occupied the other end of the gradient. Indicator Species Analyses revealed that many species expressed affinities for particular substrates, including live vs. dead foliage, bark of small vs. large branches and limbs, bark of upper vs. lower surfaces of large limbs, bark of large trunks, bare wood, bryophyte mats, soils, non-redwood stems and terrestrial woody debris. Cluster Analysis identified seven groups of species with similar patterns of distribution across height strata and substrate types. Correlations between tree structure and species distribution suggested that structural complexity promoted epiphyte diversity within height strata. Surface areas of small live trunks, limbs and dead trunks were the best predictors of lichen species richness, Polypodium scouleri biomass and Vaccinium ovatum biomass, respectively. At least one new species (Calicium sp. nov.) was discovered, and two species (Buxbaumia piperi, Icmadophila ericetorum) normally restricted to terrestrial habitats were found as canopy epiphytes for the first time.
10.2307/3243492|The lichen Texosporium sancti-jacobi (Ascomycetes: Caliciales) is known from only four general locations worldwide, all in western U.S.A. Typical habitat of Texosporium has the following characteristics: arid or semiarid climate; nearly flat ground; noncalcareous, nonsaline, fine- or coarse-textured soils developed on noncalcareous parent materials; little evidence of recent disturbance; sparse vascular plant vegetation; and dominance by native plant species. Within these constraints Texosporium occurs on restricted microsites: partly decomposed small mammal dung or organic matter infused with soil. The major threat to long-term survival of Texosporium is loss of habitat by extensive destruction of the soil crust by overgrazing, invasion of weedy annual grasses and resulting increases in fire frequency, and conversion of rangelands to agriculture and suburban developments. Habitat protection efforts are important to perpetuate this species.
10.2307/3243458|Seventeen new distributional records of mosses are reported from China for the provinces of Hainan, Sichuan, and Yunnan. Five of these taxa are new to China and three are new to mainland China.
3244778|The new pyrenocarpous lichen, Verrucaria kootenaica Breuss & Spribille, is described. It is characterized by a thickish, circular thallus with radiating marginal lobes and in having perithecia located in thalline warts. The species is presently known from streambeds in limestone areas of northwestern Montana and southeastern British Columbia.
10.2307/3242194|Thirty-two species, including the genera Gyalidea and Microthelia, are reported for the first time from British Columbia. Specific locations are given for one other species previously mentioned from the province.
23321056|A new moss species, Didymodon lainzii J. A. Jimnez & M. J. Cano, is described and illustrated from south-western Ecuador and north-western Peru. It is characterized mainly by its linear-lanceolate to oblong-triangular and incurved leaves when dry, plane and bistratose margins above midleaf, the yellowish color in KOH, a hyaline area of rectangular cells on ventral surface of the costa, transverse section of the costa with 24 layers of guide cells and without ventral stereids. Its distinction from, and relationships with, some closely related species within the genus are discussed.
10.2307/3240633|The taxonomy and the chemical constituents of eight North American and two exotic species of the crustose genus Haematomma are considered. The American species of the genus are classifiable into three sections, one of which is new. The usually sterile H. elatinum seems to be one of the commonest bark-inhabiting lichens in the eastern states. H. porphyrium is reported as new to North America from a specimen upon which previous erroneous reports of H. coccineum had been based.
10.2307/3243271|Bartleya ohioensis is considered as a synonym of Dicranella cerviculata. As a result, the distributional range of the latter in the eastern U.S. is extended southward in areas of acid drainage associated with coal deposits. Many collections have been made in Maryland, West Virginia, and Kentucky.
3244347|Three small populations of the rare allopolyploid peat moss species Sphagnum troendelagicum are studied using RAPD markers. Contrary to expectations, levels of neutral genotypic and haplotypic variation are moderately high in this seemingly asexual species. A model is presented for estimating relative impact of recombination on genetic variability. Recombinations appear to occur rarely in studied populations compared to mutation events, even though little significant linkage disequilibrium exists. We hypothesize that multiple origins of the species due to recurrent hybridization events may partially account for the observed variability.
10.2307/3243692|The checklist comprises 232 taxa of mosses, of which 45 are new reports from Israel. One new species, Phascum galilaeum Herrnstadt & Heyn, and two new varieties, Phascum cuspidatum Hedw. var. arcuatum Herrnstadt & Heyn and var. marginatum Herrnstadt & Heyn, are described. One new combination, Pottia affinis (Hook. & Tayl.) Herrnstadt & Heyn, and one new name, Barbula imbricata Herrnstadt & Heyn, are presented. The nomenclature of previously recorded species is revised. Published distribution records are updated and new ones are added based on extensive new collections (based on squares of 10 x 10 km). The checklist is a preliminary stage of the publication of a bryophyte flora of Israel.
10.2307/3244418| Fissidens taylorii C. Mll., a species described from Australia is reported new to the United States from northwestern Arkansas. Fissidens geheebii C. Mll., a name based on neotropical material is considered to be a synonym. A description and illustrations of F. taylorii, based on the Arkansas specimen, are provided. A key to the five dimorphic American species of Fissidens is included. 
10.2307/3241704|Geothallus is a monotypic (G. tuberosus Campb.) genus previously thought to be restricted to the Kearney Mesa, San Diego, California. Since its discovery in 1895, few collections of it have been made and the known habitats have either been destroyed or threatened with destruction. New stations reported here, some outside of the Kearney Mesa, extend the known range of this liverwort.
10.2307/3241937|The known Idaho flora of Hepaticae consists of 91 species, a subspecies and 4 varieties in 39 genera and 24 families. Twenty-seven taxa (26 species and a variety) are reported as new to Idaho. The species belong to several floristic elements: circumpolar, arctic-boreal alpine-montane (22.9% of the reported taxa), circumpolar, boreal montane (17.8%), circumpolar, arctic-temperate alpine-montane (23.9%), circumpolar, boreal-temperate montane (18.8%), circumpolar, arctic-alpine (4.2%), circumpolar, temperate (4.2%), circumpolar, eastern boreal (1.0%), circumpolar, cordilleran (1.0%), circumpolar, North Pacific (1.0%), American cordilleran (4.2%) and amphi-atlantic, boreal (1.0%).
3244660|Montane coniferous forests in Europe affected by pollutant-caused forest dieback often have a well-developed epiphytic lichen vegetation, including pollution-sensitive species. This phenomenon, apparently contradicting the assumption that acid air pollution is the cause for forest dieback, has been discussed controversially since the 1980s. Studies in Picea abies forests of the Harz Mountains, northern Germany suggest that the high lichen diversity on dieback-affected trees is due to reduced pollutant levels in bark and stemflow. Pollutant-caused needle loss reduces the interception of pollutants from the atmosphere and thus, reduces their concentrations in stemflow. Lower concentrations in stemflow result in lower concentrations in the bark because of reduced absorption. In the Harz Mountains, lower S concentrations in the stemflow of dieback-affected trees are thought to be the main cause for an even higher epiphytic lichen diversity on affected versus healthy trees. In one out of three spruce stands, high Cu concentrations in bark apparently have an additional limiting effect on lichen diversity. In all spruce stands studied in the Harz Mountains, high Mn concentrations in bark and partly also in stemflow limit lichen abundance. In contrast to S and Cu, Mn in bark and stemflow is primarily soil-borne. Lower Mn concentrations found in bark and stemflow of damaged and dead trees are attributed to reduced or lacking element uptake by the tree roots. Experiments to Mn uptake and toxicity in epiphytic lichens support the hypothesis that high Mn levels limit the abundance of epiphytic lichens. Decreasing lichen abundance with increasing Mn concentrations in bark or stemflow found in polluted and remote areas of western and eastern North America suggests that Mn may be an important site factor for epiphytic lichens in coniferous forests in general. Microclimate (including light and water conditions) is apparently of subordinate importance for the high epiphytic lichen diversity in dieback-affected spruce forests of the Harz Mountains. On dieback-affected Picea rubens on Whiteface Mountain, Adirondacks, New York, epiphytic lichen diversity was also found to be higher than on healthy trees. This cannot be attributed to S concentrations in stemflow, as the atmospheric deposition is much lower than in Germany. While Mn concentrations are apparently relevant for a limited number of lichen species on Whiteface Mountain, it is unclear whether lichen diversity might be limited by toxic effects of NO
10.2307/3242254|Campylopus incurvatus, a Hawaiian species with leaves strongly falcate secund and costae with relatively small ventral leucocysts, is described as new.
10.2307/3240509|The 211 genera and 2,558 species known to be present in the lichen flora of the continental United States and Canada are listed, and a systematic synopsis of the genera by families is given.
10.2307/3242649|Pylaisiadelpha duellii sp. nov. differs from P. tenuirostris (Sull.) Buck primarily in having small concolorous alar cells and strongly reflexed leaf margins. Pylaisiadelpha rhaphidostegioides (Card.) Card., the type species of the genus, can scarcely be maintained distinct from P. tenuirostris except in terms of sexuality, and so a nomenclatural transfer to a variety level is provided, together with a specific combination to accommodate Pylaisiadelpha brasiliensis.
10.2307/3241284|Rhacomitrium (Rhacomitrium) lawtonae, from western British Columbia and Washington, is described as new. It is closely related to R. heterostichum.
10.2307/3242195|Bryum rubens Mitt. is reported from five localities in North America. It is probably an introduction.
10.2307/3241474|Four chemically defined species in the Cladonia chlorophaea group have distinctive distributions in North America. Cladonia chlorophaea has been collected throughout the United States, Canada, and Alaska; C. grayi occurs in the southern and midwestern United States extending into Canada, and is disjunct in coastal Alaska; C. cryptochlorophaea is restricted to the midwest and eastern seaboard of the United States, eastern Canada, and Alaska, and C. merochlorophaea has a range including the northern United States, Canada, and Alaska.
10.2307/3243759|Caloplaca wetmorei is described as new from southern Baja California, Mexico. The new species, with a lobulate-laciniate, pseudoisidiate thallus, grows parasitically on several epilithic lichens, and is characterized by spores without septum or, exceptionally, with a very thin, continuous septum, recalling those of some species o/Fulgensia. Besides the type collection the species is also known from the state ofSonora (Mexico) and from Colorado and Arizona (U.S.A.).
10.2307/3242582|Two protein fractions having amylolytic activity have been isolated from Marchantia. Exogenous gibberellin treatment enhances such activity; Cycocel of Phosphon D treatment inhibits it.
10.2307/3242399|Two species of Trichocolea Dum., viz. T. mollissima (Hook. f. & Tayl.) Gott. and T. rigida Schust., occur in Tasmania. The thin-walled, scarcely tapered, markedly papillose cells of the distal leaf cilia of the latter species contrast sharply with the thick-walled, prominently tapered, smooth cells of the former. Both are widespread in New Zealand, where typical specimens are numerous but often specimens are found that exhibit intermediate characteristics. The intermediates suggest that the possibility of hybridization between the two species cannot be excluded.
10.2307/3242800|Two new species of Dimelaena are described-D. weberi Sheard from North America and D. australiensis Mayrhofer and Sheard from Australia. Their phytogeographic relationships with other species in the genus are discussed. The taxonomic relationships of the genus with Buellia, Rinodina and Rinodinella are also considered on the basis of new and other recent evidence.
3244342| Grimmia mexicana Greven is characterized by obtuse to rounded or subcucullate leaf apices and by the outer plates of the peristome teeth that are smooth and hyaline or transluscent. These and other morphological differences distinguish it from G. ochyriana Muoz that is thus excluded from the neotropical moss flora. 
10.2307/3242421|Strip mining of coal in southern Iowa has left many scattered areas of coal spoils which provide a type of habitat unique to the region. The occurrence and distribution of 29 mosses and 2 liverworts on spoils of varying age was determined and related to processes of spoil revegetation. A higher percent cover and a greater species diversity of bryophytes was observed on the older spoils which appeared to be correlated with increased vascular plant cover. Dicranella heteromalla (Hedw.) Schimp. and Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid. were found to be common throughout the spoils, whereas all other species were limited to more protected sites, especially on well vegetated, north-facing slopes. Mosses did not appear to colonize areas exposed to severe erosion, but were limited to areas with some protection provided, especially by vascular plants. Several disjunct or highly localized moss populations were found, including one new state record and thirteen new county records.
10.2307/3243727|Bryum rubens Mitt. is reported new to the moss flora of New York State, from the fifth station known for North America. This taxon is most likely a weedy introduction from Europe.
10.2307/3241528|The most rapid growth of Marchantia gemmalings in vitro was produced when gemmalings were cultured on an inorganic defined medium and maintained on a long-day photoperiod. The addition of a carbon source, at the concentrations tested, did not enhance the growth rate of the gemmalings under either long-day or short-day photoperiods.
10.2307/3243249| Quantitative data on the length and width of stem and branch leaves-the major characters used to separate I. myosuroides from I. stoloniferum-supports the uniting of these taxa into a single species as previously advocated by Mller, Renauld and Cardot, Robinson, and Crum and Anderson. The correct name for the single species is I. myosuroides Brid. 
10.2307/3243203| Fissidens brevipes Besch. and F. brittonii Grout are reported new for Brazil, F. neglectus Crum is reported new for Brazil and Colombia, F. intermedius C. Mll. is reported new for Mexico, F. ramicola Broth. is reported new for Ecuador, and F. reesei Crum & Anderson is reported new for Brazil and Peru. Additional distributional records for F. austro-americanus Pursell & Reese in Brazil, F. brevipes Besch. in Paraguay, and F. gardneri Mitt. in Brazil are presented. Fissidens abruptus (Broth.) Broth. ex Pursell is a new synonym for F. brevipes. 
20110939|Leucobryum boninense is an enigmatic species distributed in southeast China and islands of the northwestern Pacific and is the only species of Leucobryum known from the Bonin Islands which are typical oceanic islands. Molecular phylogenetic analysis using internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of nrDNA sequences was performed to resolve phylogenetic relationships among geographically isolated populations of L. boninense and its related species. The analysis showed that L. boninense is divided into two distinct clades, which correspond to geographical regions: an oceanic island clade (Bonin clade) and a continental region clade (Ryukyu clade). These two clades were also distinguished from each other by the ratio of the length of the prorate apex region to the whole leaf length, ecological preference and the colony habit. Plants of the Ryukyu clade proved to correspond to L. scaberulum, previously treated as a synonym of L. boninense. Molecular and morphological evidence strongly suggests that L. boninense is endemic to the Bonin Islands, and that L. scaberulum should be treated as a distinct species. Endemism of L. boninense on the oceanic islands may be result of allopatric speciation.
10.2307/3241240|In vitro, the protonema obtained from the rhizoid-borne gemmae of Bryum klinggraeffii produced numerous secondary gemmae instead of gametophytic buds. In nature this behaviour would be of ecological significance by being helpful in multiplication, dispersal, and prolongation of the period of perennation.
10.2307/3243791|Syrrhopodon cyrtacanthos Reese (Musci: Calymperaceae) is described as a new species from Queensland, Australia.
10.2307/3243809|Nephroma silvae-veteris sp. nov. is described from British Columbia, Canada, where it occurs as an epiphyte in old-growth forests in humid localities. Constictic, cryptostictic, norstictic, stictic, and usnic acids (and possibly PCr4) are its primary phenolic constituents. Nephroma silvae-veteris is morphologically somewhat similar to, but chemically distinct from, the blue-green phototype of Nephroma arcticum.
3244839| The Ramalina farinacea (L.) Ach. complex has a world-wide distribution. The thalli are highly variable both morphologically and chemically, with various -orcinol depsidones being produced as secondary medullary compounds. In the present study a new, rare chemotype containing cyclographin was detected by HPLC analyses. The aposymbiotically grown mycobionts, isolated from the different chemotypes (containing protocetraric, hypoprotocetraric, norstictic/ salazinic/consalazinic, and cyclographin/virensic acids) exhibited a relatively stable chemical profile in culture; the same or closely related secondary metabolites were biosynthesized under variable culture conditions. In one case, exposure of the culture to a particular set of growth parameters repeatedly led to the production of cyclographin as a major compound. The metabolites present in the Ramalina farinacea complex could be classified as an extended chemosyndrome of biochemically and bio synthetically related depsidones. The new chemotype also differs in morphology, exhibiting a long stranded growth form rather than the more tufted thallus typical of the protocetraric acid chemotype. A molecular phylogenetic analysis of Ramalina, including the most common and the rarest chemotype (the protocetraric acid and cyclographin/virensic acid chemotypes, respectively), suggested monophyly of this species, and its placement in a clade of chemically diverse Ramalina species. 
10.2307/3243622|Tolerance of copper, zinc, lead, and nickel were measured in two individuals from each of seven populations of Bryum argenteum. The populations represented a range of habitats including industrial sites subject to atmospheric metal deposition, metal-contaminated mine tailings, serpentine barrens, and urban areas. Nevertheless, there was no evidence of adaptive differentiation in tolerance to any of the metals. Populations did differ significantly in general growth vigor across all experimental treatments. These observations contrast with results from studies of angiosperms, in which the evolution of heavy-metal tolerance almost always involves ecotypic differentiation among populations, but fit an emerging picture of B. argenteum as a plastic, broadly tolerant species with surprisingly little genetic differentiation among populations.
10.2307/3243213|Splachnum ampullaceum, S. luteum, S. rubrum, S. sphaericum, and S. vasculosum, and Tetraplodon angustatus, T. mnioides, and T. urceolatus are widely distributed from the east to the west coast of northern North America. However, the north-south distributions and the relative abundances of the species are not uniform across this range. Splachnum species differ as to whether they are most abundant in eastern (S. ampullaceum) or western North America (S. luteum and S. sphaericum) and, in their north-south distribution (S. vasculosum in arctic regions, S. luteum in boreal and arctic regions and S. rubrum in boreal regions). Tetraplodon species differ in their north-south distributions (T. urceolatus in arctic regions, T. mnioides in arctic and boreal regions, and T. angustatus in boreal regions) but are uniform in distribution from east-west. Tetraplodon species are more frequent than Splachnum species and of Splachnum species the most frequent are those with the least modified sporophytes. In those specimens where two or more Splachnaceae species occur intermixed, only the species combination of S. luteum and S. sphaericum was frequent.
20485807|A revision of Dimerodontium recognizes three species: D. mendozense, D. balansae and D. pellucidum, all found in southern South America and the last two also in South Africa, mostly epiphytic or saxicolous.
10.2307/3242184| Twenty-one taxa of limbate Syrrhopodon (leaves bordered entirely or in part with elongated, hyaline cells) occur in the New World. Syrrhopodon elongatus and S. parasiticus are represented by two varieties each, and S. prolifer is represented by five varieties. Syrrhopodon elongatus Sull. var. glaziovii (Hampe) Reese, S. prolifer C.Mll. var. cincinnatus (Hampe) Reese, S. p. var. papillosus (C.Mll.) Reese, S. p. var. tenuifolius (Sull.) Reese and Holomitrium urvilleanum (C.Mll.) Reese are new combinations. The American distributions of both limbate and elimbate taxa of Syrrhopodon are summarized. The center of distribution for the New World taxa of the genus is South America, which is included in the range of 31 of the 35 taxa recognized. Fourteen taxa are restricted to South America and one of these, S. rigescens, occurs in the Americas only in the Islas Malvinas (Falkland Islands) and Tierra del Fuego, far outside the latitudinal range typical of the genus. 
10.2307/3242523|Eighteen species and two varieties of mosses, twenty-nine species and two subspecies of liverworts are reported from the Yuenyang Lake, a natural reserve in Ilan County, Taiwan. Two species of mosses and four species of liverworts are reported as new from Taiwan.
10.2307/3243513|Bryum incrassatolimbatum Card. is reported new to Panama and its sporophytes are described and illustrated for the first time. This moss appears to be most closely allied to B. cellulare Hook., based on the morphology of the capsule.
10.2307/3243562|The genus Psiloparmelia Hale has its center of diversity in the high Andes Mountains of South America, but also occurs in the mountains of southern Africa. The genus is characterized by a velvety lower surface without rhizines, isolichenan in the cell walls, a rudimentary pored epicortex, unusual distribution of secondary metabolites, and significant concentrations of both atranorin and usnic acid in the upper cortex. Psiloparmelia has secondary-product chemistry characterized by (3-orcinol depsides and depsidones and fatty acids. A total of 24 known compounds is reported for the genus, based upon thin-layer and high-performance liquid chromatographic analyses of 189 specimens. Psiloparmelia is now considered to comprise 12 species; nine are here described as new and one is a new combination.
20061144|The squamulose pyrenocarpous lichen Neocatapyrenium disparatum from Texas is described as new. It is the only species of the genus so far known to occur outside Eurasia. Morphologically it resembles N. cladonioideum from eastern Asia but differs in having a finely scabrid thallus surface and smaller ascospores. A key to the five known species is provided.
10.2307/3243326|Scorpidium scorpioides (Hedw.) Limpr. is a characteristic species of rich fens, where its chemical environment is one of high pH, calcium content, alkalinity, and conductivity. It often forms a dominant component of rich fen peat deposits. When grown under experimental conditions, Canadian plants of this species respond differently than plants from The Netherlands. Canadian plants respond best when grown in extreme-rich fen waters, while plants from The Netherlands respond best in waters from moderate-rich fens and in nutrient enhanced conditions. Saline waters yield no or limited growth responses from plants in both areas. The results suggest ecotypic variation between plants from the two continents. Also, the results suggest that chemical factors (i.e., saline water) affect the presence and growth of S. scorpioides. These chemical factors may have had an influence on the past distribution of the species.
10.2307/3241527|Parmelia (subgenus Parmelia section Irregulares) diffractaica is described as new from Tennessee, North Carolina, and South Carolina. This is the third species of Parmelia known to contain the rare lichen substance diffractaic acid.
10.2307/3244504|Frullania fengyangshanensis Zhu & M. L. So (Hepaticae, Frullaniaceae) is described as a new species from Zhejiang Province, China.
10.2307/3243611|The checklist includes a listing of the genera and species of North American mosses thought to occur in the continental United States and Canada. The floras of Mexico and Greenland are not included. The list for Sphagnum is in an accompanying paper. Including Sphagnum, 1,320 species and 109 varieties are recognized in 312 genera and 72 families. Accompanying the list are a systematic arrangement of the genera, species, and varieties, and a list of synonyms and excluded species. Three nomenclatural changes are made: Limprichtia cossonii (Schimp.), comb. nov., Polytrichum papillatum (G. L. Sm.), comb. nov., and Schistidium heterophyllum (Kindb. in Mac. & Kindb.) McIntosh, comb. nov.
10.2307/3242854|Sphaerocarpos texanus Austin has been found in Australia. It is probable that it is a recent introduction rather than an indigenous species. A review of the representation of the order Sphaerocarpales in Australia is presented.
10.2307/3241301|The principal bryological literature of the arctic regions of the world, including Arctic North America, Greenland, Arctic Asia, Arctic Europe, and Iceland, is reviewed. Emphasis is on the literature of recent decades, but many classical works are included.
10.2307/3242012|The name Tortula herzogii Zander, nom. nov. for T. angustifolia (Herz.) Herz. is validated.
3244817|The difference in species diversity on different substrates and the effect of both substrate (ground, logs, rocks, trees, and fallen branches) and site variation (such as disturbance history, aspect, slope) on bryophyte and lichen diversity were investigated in eastern Australian forests. Thirty-five sites in forest types ranging from dry sclerophyll to riparian were surveyed using a 50 m x 20 m area. Despite strong differences between the different substrates in species richness and composition for both bryophytes and lichens, differences within each substrate were limited. On examining each substrate separately, we found that variation in substrate quality, such as degree of log decay, was not strongly correlated with species diversity, explaining no more than 16% of richness and 5% of composition. Despite both bryophytes and lichens showing high fidelity for particular substrates, the quality of that substrate was not an important factor in determining species diversity in this study. Site environmental variables explained larger variation in both bryophyte and lichen species diversity, in particular species richness, with individual site variables explaining up to 41% of richness (topographic position) and 6% of composition (time since fire). For some site variables, notably some of the disturbance variables, there were no overall trends, but significant results for particular substrates, such as logging being significant only on logs and trees.
10.2307/3244250|The nature and significance of morphologically indistinguishable chemical races have been active areas of lichenological research for decades. This study uses a phylogenetic analysis of rDNA sequences to investigate whether the morphologically indistinguishable chemotypes of Ramalina americana are distinct species. Cladistic analysis of ITS sequences from 19 R. americana individuals (representing eight of the nine described chemotypes) and four outgroup Ramalina species reveals that R. americana comprises at least two cryptic, phylogenetic species. One, R. americana, is largely acid-deficient and occurs in the northern half of the range of the complex (and at high elevations in the Southern Appalachian Mountains); the other, R. culbersoniorum sp. nov., encompasses most of the chemical diversity and occurs in the southern half of the range. There is no meaningful resolution within either species. Among the outgroup Ramalina species, R. intermedia appears to be sister to the northern species, while R. fastigiata, the presumed sister group to the complex, forms an unresolved trichotomy with both the northern and southern species. Ramalina sinensis, often assumed to be closely related to the complex, is only distantly related. The results of this study agree with previous studies of other lichens in that each chemotype does not represent a separate species, nor are they all conspecific. Rather, the complex can be divided into two species, each consisting of multiple chemical races.
10.2307/3242200|Cladonia thomsonii Ahti, sp. nov., is reported from Alaska, the Canadian Northwest Territories and the Soviet Wrangell Island. Cladonia verruculosa (Vain.) Ahti, comb. nov., ranges from Alaska to Oregon. Cladonia wainii Sav. and C. rangiformis Hoffm. are excluded from the North American flora.
10.2307/3242438|Lichen communities of black oak group (Quercus (Erythrobalanus) spp.) tree trunks in 29 study sites near the rural Columbia generating station, Portage, Wisconsin, were surveyed before (1974) and three years after (1978) station operations began, to determine if SO
10.2307/3242176|Pogonatum alienum G.Sm., a new species from Mexico and Guatemala, previously confused with Pogonatum liebmannianum (C.M.) Mitt., is described. Both species are illustrated.
10.2307/3243949|Folioceros kashyapii, sp. nov. and F. udarii Asthana & Srivastava have been discovered from Nagaland and Kerala (India), respectively. Folioceros kashyapii is characterized by pinnately lobed, somewhat elongate thalli with (or without) apically swollen lamellate outgrowths on the dorsal surface, papillate or baculate spores having more or less apically smooth baculae, and relatively small elaters possessing irregular, dark, central lumina. Folioceros udarii is distinctive in having a broadly expanded thallus with a smooth dorsal surface, spinulose spores, and vermiform, elongate elaters with smooth, dark, central lumina. A key to the Indian species of Folioceros is provided.
20485789|Pseudocrossidium linearifolium (Barbula subrevoluta var. linearifolia Mll. Hal.) is a new combination and status proposed for a neglected South American taxon. This distinctive moss has been known only from the type locality in the mountains around Crdoba, Argentina. It is newly reported for the moss floras of Ecuador and Bolivia. The species is described, lectotypified, illustrated and its distribution is mapped. Diagnostic characters and distinction from some closely related South American taxa, with which it may be confused, are discussed. Pseudocrossidium perrevolutum is reduced to the synonymy of P. replicatum.
20110925|Anthracocarpon andinum, a new terricolous species, is described from northern Argentina. The most important differences from A. virescens (Zahlbr.) Breuss are in thallus morphology and size and shape of the ascospores. Anthracocarpon andinum develops a squamulose thallus covered by a sulcate epinecral layer. The squamules of A. virescens are smaller, thinner and covered by a thin and continuous epinecral layer. In addition, A. andinum has paler rhizines than A. virescens. Thallus thickness, spore width and length/width ratio of ascospores are significantly different for the two species.
10.2307/3242846|The known bryophyte flora of Mongolia consists of 269 moss species in 109 genera, and 40 liverworts in 25 genera. The present study is based on the examination of bryological collections of two Polish Scientific Expeditions and three botanists to Mongolia in 1977 and 1978. More than 25% of the species occur primarily in Central Asia and Southern Siberia, 47% in the Northern Hemisphere and 28% are widely distributed or cosmopolitan in the world. Only rare bryophytes and those new to Mongolia are included in the present paper.
10.2307/3241122|Two liverworts and 14 mosses are reported as new state records from Arkansas, Illinois, Missouri, and Oklahoma.
10.2307/3242161|Using direct-aid climbing techniques for sampling trunks and branch systems, we found 74 species of lichens and 32 species of bryophytes growing as epiphytes in a 450-year-old Douglas fir forest in western Oregon. Six epiphyte zones are described: base, moist side of trunk, dry side of trunk, upper trunk, axes of branch systems and branchlets of branch systems. The flora of each zone is compared with that of the rest of the tree and with that found on understory vegetation.
10.2307/3242083| Fissidens augustifolius Sull., F. dissitifolius Sull., F. hyalinus Hook. f. & Wils., F. milobakeri L.F.Koch and F. mollis Mitt. are recorded for the first time from Per. Heretofore F. hyalinus had not been recorded for South America. Fissidens repandus Wils. is considered a synonym of F. bryoides Hedw., sensu lato. Distributional data are given for five other species. 
10.2307/3242795|Two plots, rich in lichens, are analyzed by means of overlapping quadrats of different sizes with respect to frequency. Plot 1 is from dunes near the sea where the dune grasses (Ammophilia arenaria and x Ammocalamagrostis baltica) stabilize the sand and give rise to a well-developed litter layer. Plot 2 is from the inner dunes of secondary origin where Corynephorus canescens and Carex arenaria are scattered and the litter layer is sparse. Of the investigated quadrat sizes 6.3 x 6.3 and 12.5 x 12.5 cm
20110841|Usnea flammea is reported as new to North America, based on four specimens from coastal Maine.
10.2307/3242172|Range extensions of Umbilicaria polyrrhiza (L.) Ach., Umbilicaria virginis Schaer., Dermatocarpon squamellum (Nyl.) Herre, Heppia lutosa (Ach.) Nyl., Pannaria leucostictoides Ohlsson and Parmeliopsis ambigua (Wulf.) Nyl. are noted. Umbilicaria deusta (L.) Baumg., Koerberia biformis Mass., Lecanora supertegens (Arn.) Zahlbr., Toninia tristis (Th.Fr.) Th.Fr., Lecidea paddensis (Tuck.) Zahlbr. and Parmeliopsis hyperopta (Ach.) Arn. are newly reported from California.
10.2307/3244478|Two localities of Sphagnum viride Flatb. are reported as new to the Iberian Peninsula moss flora. The sites and habitats of the peatmoss are described and the morphological characteristics outlined.
10.2307/3243119|Epipterygium, a small genus of the Bryaceae, is represented by four American species, which occur north of Colombia. Leaves in Epipterygium are arranged in a 2/5 phyllotaxy, and the degree of leaf dimorphism varies both within and between species. Epipterygium tozeri and E. wrightii are rather distinct, but E. mexicanum and E. immarginatum of Mexico and Central America inter grade morphologically. Analysis of variance of each of 18 morphological characters shows that the two species differ significantly in leaf cell width, length to width ratio, and border development. Epipterygium mexicanum is the correct name for plants formerly known as E. immarginatum. Descriptions and illustrations are provided for the four Epipterygium species of North and Central America and the West Indies.
10.2307/3242886|Bartramia ithyphylla and Oligotrichum hercynicum are reported from Nova Scotia for the first time. Additional distributional reports of Barbula reflexa, Fontinalis flaccida, F. sullivantii, and Weissia hedwigii, all rare in Nova Scotia, are given. The reports of F. sullivantii and W. hedwigii represent northern extensions of their ranges in eastern North America. Recent reports to the contrary, the seta of O. hercynicum is found to be variable in color.
10.2307/3241758|Brachymenium andersonii is described as a new species from Macon County, North Carolina. Its outstanding features include widely spaced leaves that are spirally twisted when dry and that have a lax areolation and strong marginal serration.
10.2307/3240489|Ramalina pollinaria (Westr.) Ach. is designated as the lectotype of both Platisma [Hill?] Adans. (1763) and Platysma [Hill] Hill (1773). Platisma Hoffm. (1790) is typified by the lectotype Cetraria sepincola (Ehrh.) Ach. but, illegitimate as a later homonym, Platisma Hoffm. does not replace Cetraria Ach. (1803). The generic name Platisma [Hill?] Adans. is proposed for addition to the list of nomina rejicienda versus the well known generic name Ramalina Ach. (1810), a name which has already been conserved.
3244865|The genus Philonotis is generally considered taxonomically difficult because of high levels of phenotypic variation and frequent intergradation between species. Philonotis fontana and P. caespitosa, two poorly understood taxa that appear to be widespread across Europe and North America, are difficult to distinguish and some authors consider them two varieties of one species or even synonyms. Isozyme variation at 13 putative loci among 22 European samples representing these two species indicates that the two taxa are genetically distinct although closely related (Nei's genetic identity = 0.84). In a second part of the study, ten individuals were sampled from each of four populations from the Czech Republic; one population was clearly P. fontana (based on morphology), one was P. caespitosa, and two populations were morphologically aberrant and could not easily be assigned to one species or the other. This second study tested alternative hypotheses that the intermediate phenotypes reflect morphological plasticity, or that they result from interspecific hybridization. The results corroborate genetic differences between P. fontana and P. caespitosa, but the two morphologically aberrant populations contained alleles from both species. Plants in one of the morphologically aberrant populations were more distinct genetically from both P. caespitosa and P. fontana than were the two species from one another. The other morphologically aberrant population could be viewed as either intermediate between the two species in terms of its isozymes, or it could be included in a broadly circumscribed P. caespitosa. The results are consistent with interspecific hybridization, although phenotypic plasticity probably also contributes to morphological variation.
10.2307/3241969|Mosses desiccate rapidly during daylight hours after a major summer rainfall in the Sonoran Desert. Probably less than 9 hours are available for net photosynthesis, although microhabitat differences may increase this time slightly for certain colonies.
20061073|Protein Kinase C-like activity was established in Marchantia polymorpha. Different concentrations were detected in young and old tissue extracts from untreated and spermine-treated thalli after agarose gel electrophoresis in the presence of a PKC-specific fluorescent tags. Cytosolic putative PKC concentrations (nmol/g tissue) in untreated young thalli were higher than concentrations in old tissue. Old spermine-treated tissue possessed higher cytosolic putative PKC concentrations than young untreated thalli. Both young and old spermine-treated tissue extracts possessed higher total protein levels than young and old untreated tissue extracts. The data suggest that spermine-treatment evoked a qualitative and quantitative decrease in senescence.
10.2307/3240782|The known distribution of the two species of Scopelophila in North, Central, and South America is summarized. Scopelophila cataractae (Mitt.) Broth. is reported as new to North Carolina and is redescribed. Tortula williamsii Bartr. and Merceyopsis mexicana Bartr. are placed in synonymy with S. cataractae. The name Scopelophila (Mitt.) Lindb. is retained and Merceya Schimp. reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/3241190|Mycobionts of Hawaiian lichens in culture produced the same basic type of colonies as other lichen fungi and a variety of metabolic products. Most Hawaiian mycobionts formed gelatious sheaths around the hyphae and some excreted large amounts of viscous material into the culture medium. Phaeographina fulgurata formed abundant conidia which could not be related to those of free-living fungi. A study of five mycobionts revealed deficiencies for biotin and thiamine. Maltose and lactose were the most favored carbon sources for nine tested mycobionts. Attempts to synthesize a lichen from two Hawaiian mycobionts and a Trentepohlia phycobiont isolated from a lichen from Massachusetts, were partially successful. Seven hundred single-spore cultures of Cladonia cristatella mycobionts showed wide variations in form, size, and pigmentation, which indicated, for this lichen at least, a sexual mechanism including fusion of nuclei with different genetic factors. The presence of mating types was not detected and chemical tests showed that these fungi did not produce lichen substances. Pycnidia were formed by several species of Buellia mycobionts, but there is no direct evidence to support their suggested role in sexual reproduction.
3244691|The pyrenocarpous lichen Henrica americana is described as new. It is the second known species of the genus that is related to Polyblastia. The new species is characterized by small, brown, umbilicate squamules on a black hypothallus; black, double-walled perithecia perched on the squamules or on the stipes; and brown muriform ascospores. It is known only from a single locality in Montana.
3244842|We studied the chemistry and morphology of the Moroccan Usnea collections in R.-G. Werner's herbarium (BC-Herb.Werner). Seven taxa we believe have now been correctly identified and the collections annotated: Usnea dasaea, U. esperantiana, U. glabrata (undetected by Werner), U. lapponica, U. subscabrosa, U. substerilis, and U. wasmuthii. Among these taxa, Usnea dasaea, U. esperantiana, U. glabrata, U. subscabrosa, and U. wasmuthii are here reported from Morocco for the first time. The nomenclature of an additional three taxa has been updated: Usnea filipendula, U. mutabilis, and U. subfloridana. Five taxa have been excluded because they were misidentified: Usnea articulata var. intestiniformis, U. ceratina var. subceratina, U. florida subsp. pseudostrigosa, U. fulvoreagens, and U. hirta. Intraspecific chemical variability was found in Usnea subfloridana and U. substerilis. The specificity of lichen substances is shown to be an essential tool for the identification of Usnea species, and the value of morphological characteristics in the delimitation of the species is discussed.
10.2307/3241149|The known Wisconsin distributions of 20 locally rare species are given, ten of which are new to the state: Amphidium lapponicum (Hedw.) Schimp., A. mougeotii (B.S.G.) Schimp., Cynodontium strumiferum (Ehrh.) De Not., Helodium paludosum (Sull.) Aust., Hylocomium pyrenaiceum (Spruce) Lindb., Plagiothecium denticulatum var. tenellum B.S.G., P. elegans (Hook.) Sull., Pterigynandrum filiforme Hedw., Schistostega pennata (Hedw.) Hook. & Tayl., and Seligeria campylopoda Kindb.
10.2307/3242625| Entodon hampeanus C. Mll., a Mexican-Andean moss, is reported for the first time from the United States. It was collected in Oconee County, South Carolina, in 1958, by Wilfred B. Schofield, but remained unidentified until recently. The creation of Lake Jocassee has since flooded the site and the moss is now extinct there. Nevertheless E. hampeanus can be added to a growing list of tropical American bryophytes that are disjunctive to the Southern Appalachian Mountains. A description and illustrations of the moss are provided. 
3244794| Five new species of foliicolous lichens are described from the montane forest in the States of Oaxaca and Puebla of Mexico. All new taxa belong to the family Gomphillaceae (Ostropales): Gyalectidium nashii sp. nov., G. paolae sp. nov., G. rosae-emiliae sp. nov., Gyalideopsis applanata sp. nov. (also known from Costa Rica and Guyana), and Tricharia oaxacae sp. nov. In addition, pycnidia are described for Fellhanera naevia (Vain.) Lcking & Cceres, and diahyphae for Tricharia subalbostrigosa Lcking. 
41289816|The moss genus Sciuro-hypnum (Hampe) Hampe is revised for the Mediterranean area. A key to the species of the Mediterranean area and Europe, descriptions, illustrations and distribution data for the nine species recognized are provided. New records for countries of the study area are reported.
20110749|The new saxicolous species introduced by Josiah Lowe from his collections from the Adirondack Mountains, New York are reassessed. Lecidea albonigra J. Lowe, L. columnata J. Lowe, L. furva J. Lowe, L. humilis J. Lowe, L. marciensis J. Lowe, L. rugosa J. Lowe, L. soredifera J. Lowe, L. suberratica J. Lowe, and L. subramosa J. Lowe are reduced to synonymy with other, previously described taxa and must be removed from the North American lichen checklist. Lecidea nemoralis J. Lowe is a member of the Lecidea hypnorum group closely allied to L. ahlesii (Krb.) Nyl., and is here treated as L. ahlesii var. nemoralis. The status of some other lecideoid lichens in North America is also reassessed and L. marylandensis H. Magn. is shown to be a synonym of Miriquidica leucophaea (Rabenh.) Hertel & Rambold, Lecidea planetica Tuck. ex Willey to be a synonym of Micarea erratica, and the single North American collection of Micarea melanabola is shown to be a misidentification of Lecidea tugidula Fr. The new combination Porpidia subsimplex (H. Magn.) Fryday is made and shown to be an earlier name for P. tahawasiana Gowan. Lecidella subviridis Tnsberg, Toninia squalescens (Nyl.) Th. Fr., and the lichenicolous fungus Endococcus verrucosporus Alstrup are reported for the first time from North America, and Micarea elachista (Krb.) Coppins & R. Sant. is confirmed as occurring in North America. The author citations of four species described by Willey in the Appendix of Tuckerman's Synopsis of North American Lichens (Biatora furvonigrans, B. meadii, Lecidea micytho, and L. planetica) are corrected to Tuck. ex Willey.
10.2307/3241230|The asci of the lichen-forming fungi can be classified into two principal groups, the archaeascal type and the bitunicate type. In the archaeascal type, found almost exclusively in discolichens of the order Lecanorales, the wall is thick and is made of a thin refractive exoascus (covered with a gelified layer that often stains blue with iodine) and a thick endoascus that is often two-layered, the internal layer becoming thicker towards the top where it forms an apical dome. Several formations, some lamellate and staining blue with iodine, differentiate inside the apical dome, which is hollowed out at its base, forming an ocular chamber in which is often lodged an apical nasse. The dehiscence is usually bivalvate or rostrum-like, rarely of the jack-in-the-box type. The bitunicate type, which is also known among numerous nonlichen-forming Ascomycetes, is found in the pyrenolichens and in diverse discolichens of the order Graphidales. The ascal wall is also two-layered, the apical dome is thick and lamellate but not amyloid, there is an apical nasse, and dehiscence is of the jack-in-the-box type.
10.2307/3242570|The cryptogamic vegetation on neoglacial till at eleven sites in the Teton Range, Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming, was investigated. Nine of the sites are moraines fronting glaciers, while two sites are rock glaciers. The distribution and abundance of terricolous cryptogams is strongly correlated with aspect: north and northeast facing sites support better developed vegetation than south and southeast facing sites. Distribution of saxicolous lichens is controlled more by substrate age and type than aspect. The steep moraine slopes are too dry and unstable to allow the establishment of terricolous cryptogams.
20110940|Primer sequences are provided for amplification of 21 microsatellite-containing loci in Sphagnum. Although these primers were developed for species in Sphagnum section Subsecunda, they amplify microsatellite loci in most species that have been tested across the genus Sphagnum. Results are described from a survey of genetic variation in three species of Sphagnum collected in China: S. junghuhnianum in section Acutifolia, and S. palustre and S. imbricatum in section Sphagnum. Six and eight multilocus genotypes were detected within one population each of S. junghuhnianum and S. palustre, respectively. Four populations of S. imbricatum were sampled; they vary substantially in allele frequencies and in the amount of genetic diversity detected; overall, approximately 40% of the genetic variation sampled within S. imbricatum could be attributed to differentiation among populations. Microsatellite profiles indicate that S. palustre gametophytes are diploid whereas those of S. junghuhnianum and S. imbricatum are haploid.
10.2307/3241948|The moss flora of the Uxpanapa Valley includes a high proportion of epiphytes and a smaller number of rock inhabitants. The majority of the moss species are taxa of widespread tropical distribution with practically no endemics in the region. Seven species are reported as new to the Mexican moss flora.
40982954|Entodon is taxonomically revised for East Asia. All taxa previously considered to occur in this region were studied. Among the morphological observations, special attention is paid to peristome structure by means of the scanning electron microscope. Thirty-three species are recognized for East Asia. Nineteen new synonyms are proposed at the specific level. A key to the identification of the species is provided, and for each species synonymy, illustrations, descriptions, habitat, distribution and representative specimens examined are given.
40982958|An analysis of liverwort diversity in Rio de Janeiro state has been done, with the objective to elucidate the richness and floristic composition of the different formations of the Atlantic Forest, and the influence of the altitudinal gradient on the liverworts. For this, data from literature, herbarium, floristic inventories and data bank of the state's flora were combined. The liverwort flora is composed of 360 taxa distributed among 102 genera and 31 families, emphasizing the importance of the remaining part of Rio de Janeiro's tropical rainforest for the conservation of the liverwort diversity in Brazil. In the state's remaining tropical rainforests 50% of the liverwort flora of the country and 72% of that of the Atlantic Forest are found. The flora is not uniform, presenting differences in species richness and floristic composition in different formations of the state's Atlantic Forest, in addition to a floristic gradient along the altitudinal gradient. The Montane formation has higher species richness (238), number of exclusive taxa (63) and endemics (27), followed by the Upper Montane formation (173, 58 and 21, respectively). Lejeuneaceae stands out as the richest family in all formations, whereas other families are exclusive to certain formations. As is true for mosses, several liverworts appear as diagnostic features of altitudinal belts in Atlantic Forest, corroborating the use of bryophytes as indicators of altitudinal zonation in tropical rainforests.
10.2307/3243525|Brachydontium olsonii, a new species from Honduras, differs from all other species of the genus by its shorter setae, longer, broader, and smooth capsules, and its leaves that have narrowly recurved margins and obtuse apices. Gametophytically the species appears closest to the Australian B. intermedium. Sporophytically the species is most similar to the South American-African B. flexisetum and the Mexican B. curvisetum. The type collection appears to have been collected on bark. It may, however, represent a mixed gathering; thus the substrate on which the species was found needs verification.
41486745|Bryoria divergescens, which was previously known only from the 19 th century holotype collection, has been rediscovered in various localities in Yunnan and also in Sichuan, southern China. This species should now be considered an endemic to the Hengduan Mountains region. It is characterized by its erect thallus, 3-8 cm tall, main branches 1-2 mm in diam., true lateral spinules, sparse pseudocyphellae,  ciliate apothecia, the presence of rumarprotocetraric and lobaric acids. It usually grows on branches of conifers.
10.2307/3240991| The new species Cetraria chicitae produces atranorin and alectoronic and -collatolic acids. It is widely distributed and locally common in eastern North America and eastern Asia but is apparently rare in Europe where it is known from a single locality in France. 
10.2307/3240516|Penzigiella (?) robusta Broth., originally referred to the Pterobryaceae, is conspecific with Neodolichomitra gigantea Nog. of the Hypnaceae. The new combination N. robusta (Broth.) Nog. is required.
10.2307/3243841| Jonesiobryum is removed from the Funariaceae and placed in the Rhachitheciaceae. The names Jonesiobryum Bizot & Pcs ex Allen & Pursell, J. cerradense, Vital ex Allen & Pursell, J. sphaerocarpum Bizot ex Allen & Pursell, and J. termitarum Vital ex Allen & Pursell are validated. A key to the species is provided. 
10.2307/3242739| Levierella perserrata P.-Varde & Leroy was collected in Michoacn, Mexico and represents a genus and species new to Mexico and the Americas. Both Levierella and L. perserrata are described and the latter is illustrated. Its disjunct distribution from Africa cannot be explained by continental displacement alone; further research in Mexico and elsewhere should add supporting information to explain this pattern of distribution. 
10.2307/3243436| In southern Africa the subfamily Macromitrioideae (Orthotrichaceae) consists of four genera, 11 species, and one subspecies. The following taxa are recognised: Macrocoma, consisting of M. lycopodioides (Schwaegr.) Vitt, M. pulchella (Hornsch.) Vitt, and M. tenue (Hook. & Grev.) Vitt subsp. tenue; Macromitrium, consisting of M. lebomboense Van Rooy, M. levatum Mitt., M. macropelma C. Mll., M. richardii Schwaegr., and M. serpens (Hook. & Grev.) Brid.; Schlotheimia, consisting of S. ferruginea (Hook. & Grev.) Brid., S. percuspidata C. Mll., and S. rufopallens C. Mll.; and Cardotiella secunda (C. Mll.) Vitt. Lectotypes are selected for several of the southern African names. 
10.2307/3242220|A new species, Tortula ammonsiana, is described from the state of West Virginia. In the relationship of T. laevipila (Brid.) Schwaegr. and T. pagorum (Milde) DeNot., its distinguishing characteristics include a reddish costa shortly excurrent as a yellowish or reddish apiculus and clusters of costate, smoothly apiculate brood leaves produced on branched stalks in leaf axils.
20485779|Ten species of lichenicolous fungi on Collemataceae in the Iberian Peninsula are recorded. A new species, Pronectria pilosa, on Collema furfuraceum is proposed and three new records from the Iberian Peninsula are indicated, Endococcus pseudocarpus, Nectria brutia and Toninia leptogii. The known distribution of several treated species is enlarged notably.
10.2307/3241202| Seven species of Hookeriaceae, not treated in the previous papers pertinent to North America and the West Indies nor indicated in the lists of taxa for the same, are included in this study: Callicostella scabriseta (Hook.) Jaeg., Mexico and West Indies; Daltonia splachnoides (Sm.) Hook. & Tayl., British Columbia; Hookeriopsis guadalupensis (Brid.) Jaeg., Mexico; H. heteroica Card., United States; Hypnella pilifera (Hook, & Wils.) Jaeg., Mexico; Lepidopilum subtortifolium Bartr., Mexico; and Leskeodon cubensis (Mitt.) Thr., Mexico. Two species, Daltonia splachnoides and Hypnella pilifera, are described and illustrated as new records. An appendix includes additions and corrections noted since the previous publications in the series and a list of excluded species which have been cited for North America and the West Indies. 
10.2307/3240579|Aulacopilum brittoneae and Erpodium acrifolium are described as new from Mexico. The similarities and differences between E. coronatum and E. pringlei are discussed; E. coronatum is reported as new to the flora of Guatemala and Mexico. Erpodium balansae is synonymous with E. glazioui, which is reported as new to Mexico. Erpodium opuntiae is reduced to synonymy under E. paraguense, and E. latifolium is reduced to synonymy under Solmsiella biseriata, a species for which the range is extended to include Cuba and Venezuela.
10.2307/3244459| Pyrenocollema japonicum H. Harada is described as new on the basis of a specimen from Iwate-ken, northern Japan. It is characterized by having a purplish-brown, smooth thallus;  sessile (or immersed only at base),  globose, black perithecia without thalline cover; 1-septate ascospores (20 x 5 m); and ellipsoid pycnoconidia (2-3 x ca 1 m). It occurs on periodically submerged rocks in forested gorges. 
10.2307/3242594|Two crustose lichens belonging to the family Roccellaceae from Ascension Island in the South Atlantic Ocean, are discussed. Roccellina jamesii, newly described, is closely related to R. capensis and R. expectata from South Africa and Tasmania respectively. Dirina insulana previously only known from Madeira occurs on Ascension in both its fertile and sorediate states. Roccellina jamesii is a partial parasymbiont of Dirina insulana (esp. f. sorediata). The phytogeographical significance and implications of both species are discussed.
10.2307/3242298|Pterigynandrum, since its inception, has been an unnatural genus. All the species in the genus, except P. filiforme, are transferred to other genera, leaving Pterigynandrum monotypic. Pterigynandrum sinense and Leucodon thomsonii are transferred into Forsstroemia, the former as F. leptodontoidea nom. nov. Forsstroemia is placed in the resurrected Leptodontaceae, along with Leptodon, Leucodontopsis and Pseudocryphaea. Other heterogeneous elements in the Leucodontaceae and Cryphaeaceae are discussed. Pterigynandrum decolor is transferred into Leptopterigynandrum. Garysmithia bifurcata is synonymized with L. austro-alpinum and L. clavatum Buck & Crum is described as new; P. brandisii is the same as Eurohypnum leptothallum. Pterigynandrum sharpii is placed in Mittenothamnium. Pterigynandrum filiforme var. mexicanum is transferred into the Sematophyllaceae in the new genus Horridohypnum as H. mexicanum.
23321067|The taxonomic status of two poorly known Andean species is reviewed. Their diagnostic characters are illustrated and discussed. Bartramia microbasis Mll. Hal. is proposed as a new synonym of Anacolia laevisphaera (Taylor) Flowers and Mielichhoferia modesta Mll. Hal. is reduced to synonymy of Pohlia wahlenbergii (F. Weber & D. Mohr) A. L. Andrews. Four new lectotypes are selected, including for Glyphocarpa laevisphaera Taylor and Bartramia subsessilis Taylor.
10.2307/3243990|The seven species of Geocalycaceae (Hepaticae) in North America west of the hundredth meridian are discussed, keyed, and provided with distribution maps. Chiloscyphus polyanthus is reported new to Arizona and Saskatchewan, Geocalyx graveolens new to Colorado, Northwest Territories, and Saskatchewan, Lophocolea bidentata new to Northwest Territories, L. heterophylla new to Alaska and Arizona, and L. minor new to Arizona.
10.2307/3241494|Lichen determinations were made on aspect samples of bark of Populus tremuloides growing in forest and parkland conditions in three locations -the foothills near Waterton Park (Alberta), the Cypress Hills of southwestern Saskatchewan, and the Aspen Parkland north of Biggar, Saskatchewan. Of 30 lichen species, only seven occurred in all of the areas and on more than 10% of the samples. Species occurrence and abundance could be correlated with measured differences in aspect (several species showing north-side preference), and with generally observed differences in annual precipitation, conditions of bark, and possibly with supply of nutrients. In lichen-aspen community, the Cypress Hills showed more similarity to the Aspen Parkland of Central Saskatchewan than to the foothills area of the Rocky Mountains.
10.2307/3243200| Thalli of Umbilicaria muhlenbergii randomly collected from five collection sites in the Muskoka region of Ontario, Canada were sorted into six morphological classes on the basis of vegetative and apothecial characters. These thalli were pretreated with acetone to remove extracellular phenolics and subsequently crude protein extracts from them were subjected to isoelectric focusing and specific enzyme staining. Relative band frequencies were determined and transformed to arcsine values and paired t-tests were performed to determine whether there were significant frequency differences among different morphological types. There were 57 bands of enzyme activity in the eight enzyme systems assayed and of these 23 were consistently present in all samples. At p  0.05 there were no significant differences in banding patterns among morphological classes nor were there differences among collection sites. Cluster analysis, however, showed five distinct groups corresponding to groups of thalli collected at the five sites. Morphological classes appeared to represent different stages in development. 
3244654|Using rope techniques for access, we surveyed epiphytes on five Sitka spruce trees up to 92 m tall in an old-growth redwood forest. We quantified epiphyte diversity by sampling 5% of each tree's surface area of axes (branches >5 cm diameter) and branchlets (branches <5 cm diameter, including foliage). Epiphyte communities included 57 macrolichen, 15 crustose lichen, 17 bryophyte, and two fern species. The five most abundant species-Isothecium myosuroides, Polypodium scouleri, Polypodium glycyrrhiza, Lobaria pulmonaria, and Frullania nisquallensis-contributed 42.1, 13.3, 8.4, 6.7, and 4.7% of the total epiphyte biomass, respectively. There was an average of 36.2 kg of bryophytes, 9.9 kg of lichens, 12.7 kg of ferns, and 131 kg of associated dead organic matter per tree. Axes supported 83% of the biomass and 98% of the dead organic matter. At the whole-tree level, bryophyte biomass was 11.3 times higher and lichen biomass was 2.5 times lower on axes than branchlets. Ferns were restricted to axes. Ordination analysis revealed one dominant gradient in epiphyte composition that was positively correlated with height and lichen diversity, and negatively correlated with bryophyte diversity. Chlorolichens dominated the exposed portion of the gradient with equivalent amounts of cyanolichens and bryophytes. Mosses dominated the intermediate portion of the gradient with equivalent amounts of liverworts, cyanolichens, and chlorolichens. There was very little lichen cover in the sheltered portion of the gradient, which was dominated by bryophytes. Extensive bryophyte mats with large quantities of dead organic matter promote biological diversity on Sitka spruce in redwood forest canopies by storing water and serving as habitats for desiccation-sensitive organisms.
40732288|Verrucaria mundula P. M. McCarthy var. mundula is recorded for the first time for the Northern Hemisphere. Differences between Iberian specimens and the Australian type material are indicated, and the species is compared to other freshwater Verrucaria species found in Europe.
10.2307/3242988|Meiotic studies were made of six species belonging to three genera included in three families. Three species, namely, Brothrella erythrocaulis (Mitt.) Fleisch. (n = 10), B. falcata (Doz. et Molk.) Fleisch. (n = 10), and B. harveyana (Mitt.) Dix. (n = 10) are studied cytologically for the first time. Chromosome counts for Eurhynchium pulchellum (Hedw.) Jenn. (n = 11) and Macrothamnium submacrocarpum (Renn. & Card.) Fleisch. (n = 19) are different from earlier reports for these species. Erratic meiotic cycle resulting in the formation of triads was observed in Brothrella harveyana.
10.2307/3241921|Cyathodium tuberculatum Udar et Singh sp. nov. from Darjeeling (Eastern Himalayas) India is described. The species is characterized by tuberculate spores with considerable variation in size and usually tetraspiral elaters.
10.2307/3243510| A new species, Mittenothamnium deguchii Nishimura & Kanda, is described from Aisn, Chile. This species is closely related to M. scalpellifolium (C. Muell.) Crum, but is distinguished by secund branch leaves, minute and dentate pseudoparaphyllia, and no central strand in the stem. Distinguishing features between the new species and Hygrohypnum reduncum (Mitt.) Nishimura are also given. 
41289794|Three sorediate and four primarily fertile species of the lichen genus Hypogymnia are accepted for Chile in the present study, and only two of these correspond to species listed in current checklists. Hypogymnia antarctica, H. lugubris and H. subphysodes are considered to be common; the former has previously been poorly understood. Hypogymnia pulverata and H. bitten are reported here as new to Chile, the latter also as new to austral areas. The former is not convincingly well separated from H. subphysodes. Hypogymnia enteromorphoides and H. solidepedicellata are also accepted here, based on literature reports, whereas six species reported rather recently from southern South America are not accepted here for this area. Sorediate species are much more widely distributed than primarily fertile ones, not only in the present study area, but also on a global scale. Vittatolic, 2'-O-methylphysodic, and 3-hydroxyphysodic acids were found to be reliable differential compounds between some of the species studied. The superficially similar genera Hypogymnia and Menegazzia are of strong biogeographical interest, as they show parallel distribution patterns, although they have probably originated in different hemispheres.
10.2307/3241728|Abnormal receptacles, bearing both archegonia and antheridia, are described and illustrated in Marchantia polymorpha from India.
10.2307/3244527|Relationships between the species of the genus Orthotrichum (Musci, Orthotrichaceae) are analyzed with cladistic methods. As a result, a new phylogeny is presented: Orthotrichum paraguense is moved to a genus of its own, Sehnemobryum gen.nov. and the remaining species are shown to make up a monophyletic group, which is tentatively divided into eight subgroups to which no formal names have been assigned. Orthotrichum callistomum (with immersed stomata) is shown to be closer related to species with superficial stomata in sect. Leiocarpa, than to any species with immersed stomata, and O. cyathiforme (with superficial stomata) seems related to species with immersed stomata in subg. Pulchella. The earlier proposed relationship between O. obtusifolium and O. exiguum is supported, whereas no support is given for a separation of the species O. gymnostomum and O. obtusifolium into a genus of their own. Immersed stomata most likely developed twice within the genus, whereas a doubling of the chromosomes from a basic number of n = 6 followed by subsequent loss of one chromosome to n = 11 may have happened once or twice. The study supports the earlier assumption that the genus Orthotrichum probably originated in the Southern Hemisphere, and that the ancestral species most likely was an epiphyte having superficial stomata, a chromosome number of n = 6, symmetric division of the IPL, well developed endostome segments with a complete median line on the outside, prostomes, the dry exostome teeth recurved, capsules not being constricted below the mouth when dry, and medium-sized leaves. The taxonomic position was confirmed for O. bolanderi, whereas it was changed for O. pulchrum, O. speciosum, O. latimarginatum, and O. anaglyptodon. The systematic position of Orthotrichum cyathiforme is still not clear. The species Orthotrichum callistomum, O. cyathiforme, and O. exiguum seem essential to the understanding of the infrageneric evolution.
10.2307/3242676| Grimmia obtusifolia was described from Tibet, China in 1981, while Schistidium obtusifolium was described from Quebec, Canada in 1984. These two species are superficially similar in having small plants with rounded-obtuse, concave, oblong-ovate leaves. They differ in the former possessing bistratose upper leaf cells, 5 to 7 m in width and differentiated alar cells, while S. obtusifolium has unistratose upper leaf cells (with bistratose margins) 7 to 9 m in width and undifferentiated alar cells. Grimmia obtusifolia has not been found with sporophytes, while the systylious condition has not been verified in S. obtusifolium. Even though the generic position of these two taxa is not clear, they are distinct, but superficially similar species. 
10.2307/3242005|Sphagnum angermanicum Mel., an amphiatlantic, oceanic species, was found at the margin of a clear pond in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. The species is thus considered a disjunct with a distribution pattern similar to that of other coastal species with rare and local outposts in the mountains.
43188824|Summarized are results of field studies of small, cushion-forming species of Grimmia in high altitude mountain areas of New York State, Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine, and of associated research with herbarium specimens from these regions. We here report eight species. Grimmia anodon is added to the flora of the Northeast, and new records and clarifications are presented for G. donniana, G. incurva, G. longirostris, G. milleri, G. sessitana, and G. trichophylla. Collections of these species came from rock types of varying composition (calcareous to acidic), sometimes different vegetation, and varying altitudinal ranges. In spite of these advancements in knowledge, Grimmia of the northeastern United States remains incompletely understood, taxonomically and ecologically.
40732298|The new species Graphis colinsiae Lucking & Lumbsch is described from the Fiji Islands.The species belongs to the G. insulana aggregate and is intermediate between G. insulana (Mll.Arg.) Lucking & Sipman and G. subhiascens (Mll. Arg.) Lucking. All three species have a similar thallus and lirellae morphology and anatomy and ascospore-type, but differ in hymenial and chemical characters: G.insulana has an inspersed hymenium and contains norstictic acid, whereas G.subhiascens lacks inspersions and secondary substances. The new species, G.collinsiae, agrees with G.insulana in having an inspersed hymenium, but it lacks secondary metabolites.
40982986|Erpodium cubense, previously known only from Cuba, was found in the Dominican Republic as misidentified collections of E. domingense. Fissidens cryptoneuron, previously known from tropical Africa and eastern Brazil, is reported from Bolivia. The actual or real range of a species depends upon a number of physical and biological factors. The perceived range of a species approximates the actual range; its propinquity to the actual range is dependent on correct specimen identification and scope of collecting activity.
23321032|We report the results of recently investigated collections from Everglades National Park and Biscayne National Park that have yielded several new additions to the North American lichen checklist, and Caloplaca lecanorae, a new lichenicolous lichen found on the thallus of Lecanora leprosa. Those species new to North America include Arthonia compensatula, A. ochrospila, Bacidina pallidocarnea, Byssoloma absconditum, Coenogonium isidiigerum, C. isidiosum, Enterographa pallidella, Lecanora hypocrocina, L. tropica, Monoblastia palmicola and Parmotrema wrightii. Both Lecanora species have been reported from Mexico, which is excluded from the aforementioned checklist.
10.2307/3240947| An excursion to one locality in the Driftless Area of southern Wisconsin and to several in Ashland and Bayfield Counties of northern Wisconsin resulted in the collection of 234 species of lichens. The southern locality, a calcareous sandstone bluff, yielded 93 species, many of them characteristic of dry lime-rich conditions. Maple-birch forests, grading into spruce-fir, characterized the northern localities where 183 species were collected. One species, Arthonia granosa B. de Lesd., is new to North America, and two new combinations, Micarea gelatinosa (Flrke) and M. viridescens (Schrad.), are made. 
10.2307/3241940|In a growing antheridium of Polytrichum, walls of the androgonial cells are conventional, except for frequent interruptions due to protoplasmic connections, which are larger than plasmadesmata, between adjacent androgones. Prior to final division, protoplasts round up because of thickening of the walls at the corners of cells. Dictyosomes seem to be important in secretion of wall materials. After the last division the thick walls take on a reticulate, and then alveolar, appearance in sectional views as the walls become the intercellular matrix. Each of the developing androcytes deposits a uniform granular wall layer against the alveolar matrix. The granular layer becomes the vesicle in which a sperm is released. In addition, an irregular granular-fibrillar layer is deposited within the vesicle. At maturity numerous sperm vesicles of a sperm mass are embedded in a continuous phase of lipid droplets. Lipids replace the thick walls that were present when androcytes were first differentiated. Wall developments are part of the preparation of the sperms for dispersal, and, as such, they are a crucial aspect of sperm maturation.
3244923|Three species of Saccogynidium Grolle (Geocalycaceae, Hepaticae) are recognized in China. Saccogynidium rigidulum (Nees) Grolle and S. muricellum (De Not.) Grolle are confirmed from Taiwan, and S. irregularospinum Gao, Cao, & Lai from Tibet and Taiwan is described as new to science. A key to Chinese species of Saccogynidium and illustrations of each species are presented.
20485810|Grimmia horrida, a new species from the NW of the Iberian Peninsula is described and illustrated. The new species is characterized by the ciliate hair-points. Additionally, the leaves are linear, strongly keeled so that the two blades of the lamina touch each other near the costa and then curve outward, the lamina is bistratose only at the margins and in small areas, and the connection to the terete hair-point is very abrupt in most leaves. Although all the specimens are sterile, this combination of characters is unique in Grimmia.
40732292|The lichen Usnea brasiliensis (Zahlbr.) Motyka is reported for the first time outside of the American continent from the Canary Islands. A description of the species is provided and possible relationships with other taxa are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3244019|Bryum argenteum frequently occurs in urban environments and therefore appears to have the ability to tolerate high levels of such atmospheric pollutants as lead. The presence of genetic variation for tolerance to lead was assessed within and among three populations of this species from Ithaca, New York state. Plants from these populations contained extremely different concentrations of lead and other metals, but there was little or no variation in metal tolerance among the populations. There were, however, significant differences in general vigor (growth rates across all experimental treatments) among populations. Moreover, the rural and suburban populations contained high levels of variation in vigor among haploid-sib families (families of gametophytes derived from different sporophytes). The urban population, in contrast, contained conspicuously less variation than the other two.
10.2307/3244185|A Pannaria-like lichen growing on debris, mosses, and other lichens in the northern Andes and adjacent regions is described. The specimens have characteristic acanthohyphidia, structures only known in the Corticiaceae. This is an addition to the many basidiolichens known from South America and is here described as a new genus, as none of the recognized genera has such structures.
10.2307/3241978|In Conocephalum supradecompositum (Lindb.) Steph., an annual species of Marchantiales, the spore mother cells are cylindrical, and the spores in a tetrad are linearly arranged and show a distinct dimorphism. This type of spore mother cells and tetrads has not been recorded before in bryophytes.
10.2307/3242875| Five new species of parmelioid lichens are described: Bulbothrix haleana Srusiaux, a saxicolous species containing salazinic acid; Parmotrema kahuziense Srusiaux, a large coriaceous species with small spores and protocetraric acid; Parmotrema lambinonii Srusiaux, the assumed pustulate counterpart of P. inexpectatum; P. subhanningtonianum Srusiaux, the sorediate counterpart of P. hanningtonianum; and P. pseudeunetum Srusiaux, which corresponds to Parmelia euneta auct. p.p., non Stirton. Two species are reported new for the African continent: Hypotrachyna chlorina (Mll. Arg.) Hale and H. protenta Hale. New localities are reported for the rare Bulbothrix pustulata (Hale) Hale, Hypotrachyna sublaevigata (Nyl.) Hale, Parmotrema bangii (Vainio) Hale and for Pseudoparmelia inhaminensis (Dodge) Hale. The following new combinations are made: Parmotrema cooperi (Steiner & Zahlbr.) Srusiaux, Parmotrema gardneri (Dodge) Srusiaux and Parmotrema pseudograyanum (Hale) Srusiaux. 
40732260|Xanthoparmelia teydea is described as new to science. This new species was found on basaltic rocks in the high mountains of the Canary Islands, in El Teide National Park (Tenerife Island). A description of the species is given together with notes on its chemistry, distribution, ecology and taxonomy. Possible associated taxa are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3243352| Arachniopsis minima Schust. is reported for the first time for the state of So Paulo. The report of Arachniopsis diacantha (Mont.) Howe from the state of Esprito Santo is treated here as a misidentification of material which we consider to be Telaranea nematodes (Gott. ex Aust.) Howe. Arachniopsis diacantha (Mont.) Howe is cited for the first time for the state of Bahia, and from the Atlantic forest of the state of So Paulo. Zoopsis antillana Steph. is cited for the first time for the states of Bahia, Gois, and So Paulo. 
10.2307/3243991|Two sorediate species of Caloplaca occur on seashore rocks in North America, Caloplaca flavogranulosa sp. nov., and C. citrina (Hoffm.) Th. Fr. Caloplaca citrina s.l. occurs on many substrates in many different environments, but the treatment of C. citrina in this paper comprises only the form occurring on seashore rocks. This form may represent a distinct taxon, separate from C. citrina s.s., but more extensive studies of the entire complex must be carried out to settle this problem. Caloplaca flavogranulosa is described here for the first time. It has previously been confused with several species, mostly nonsorediate. Caloplaca flavogranulosa is characterized by a discontinuous areolate to lobate or squamulose, yellowish-orange thallus, prominent prothallus, coarse granules, and soredia which are marginal or covering most of the thallus. Caloplaca flavogranulosa differs from C. citrina by having prominent prothallus, convex areoles with a narrow base, granules, and larger soredia.
10.2307/3241117|The splitting of the inner, sheathing layer of the calyptra on the sporophyte of Polytrichum juniperinum Hedw. leads to asymmetrical expansion and the development of a capsule that is bilaterally symmetrical and dorsiventral. When unexpanded sporophytes are cultured without the sheathing layer, expansion of the capsule is radially symmetrical. When unexpanded sporophytes are cultured with the sheathing layer intact, the sheath is split and capsule expansion is asymmetrical, as it is in field-grown plants. If capsules that have already become asymmetrical are grown in culture, they develop their later angularity as would be predicted on the basis of their asymmetry. It is concluded that capsule symmetry in Polytrichum is determined by the splitting of the calyptra and the asymmetrical expansion of the erect capsule. In contrast, capsule symmetry in Funaria is determined as the capsule expands in a horizontal position and is not a function of the splitting of the calyptra.
10.2307/3242171|The distribution of Sphagnum aongstroemii C. Hartm. is mapped in North America. Its distribution is Low Arctic in character with extensions into the alpine; in North America its range is predominantly western. The low species diversity of Sphagnum in the High Arctic is compared with the high species richness of the genus in the Low Arctic of North America. SEM micrographs were used to illustrate the critical morphological features of the species.
10.2307/3242403| Twenty-seven families, 44 genera, 78 species, 10 subspecies, 31 varieties and a form of liverworts are reported from the North Cascades Range, Washington. Barbilophozia kunzeana (Hb.) Gams, B. quadriloba (Lindb.) Loeske var. quadriloba, Blepharostoma trichophyllum (L.) Dum. subsp. brevirete (Bryhn et Kaal.) Schust., Calypogeja muelleriana (Schiffn.) K.Mll. subsp. muelleriana, C. sphagnicola (H.Arnell et J.Perss.) Warnst. et Loeske, Jungermannia pumila With., Marsupella sparsifolia (Lindb.) Dum., Porella bolanderi (Aust.) Pears, and Tritomaria scitula (Tayl.) Joerg. are reported as new to the state of Washington. 
10.2307/3243571|Caloplaca bolacina (Tuck.) Herre and C. stantonii sp. nov. belong to a group of species in North America with more or less lobate, subsquamulose to squamulose thalli. The two species occur mainly on rocks in the coastal mountains and on maritime rocks in western North America. Caloplaca bolacina is here lectotypified and provided with a thorough description. Caloplaca stantonii, sometimes confused with C. bolacina, was in 1989 distributed in Lich. Exs. Colo No. 672 by W. A. Weber but is described for the first time in this paper. The present study was carried out to clarify the taxonomy of C. bolacina and C. stantonii and their relationship to a group of similar species. This group, here referred to as the C. squamosa group, comprises many species, both European and American. A key to the treated taxa is included. The taxonomy within the C. squamosa group is not dealt with. The results show that C. bolacina, C. stantonii, and the C. squamosa group are separated from each other principally in several anatomical characters as well as in gross morphology.
10.2307/3241650|Tayloria serrata, collected at a lowland site in the Adirondack Mountains, and Cinclidium stygium and Catoscopium nigritum, from an area of rich fens south of Lake Ontario, are reported for the first time from New York State. All represent significant range extensions.
10.2307/3241880|Seligeria brevifolia (Lindb.) Lindb. has been found in southeastern Newfoundland, Canada, and is new to the moss flora of North America.
43188713|Three new species, Chaenotheca erkahomattiorum, Chaenothecopsis dibbleandersoniarum and C. marcineae are described from Maine, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Quebec, in the Acadian Forest Ecoregion of northeastern North America. In addition, Calicium pinastri and Chaenothecopsis amurensis are reported for the first time in North America, and Calicium adaequatum, Chaenothecopsis asperopoda, C. tsugae, C. ussuriensis, Sclerophora amabilis and S. farinacea are reported as new to eastern North America. Keys for identifying white-pruinose and epruinose species of Chaenotheca in North America, and the species of Chaenothecopsis in the Acadian Forest Ecoregion are also included.
10.2307/3241355| Gemmalings of Marchantia polymorpha L. produced antheridiophores and archegoniophores when grown aseptically for three to six weeks on a 1% agar medium with a 24-hour photoperiod at 72F (23C). 
20061091|A new metabolite, toensbergianic acid, was isolated from the lichen Lepraria toensbergiana Bayerov & Kukwa together with the depside, atranorin. GC/MS analyses suggest that toensbergianic acid is a diastereoisomer of roccellic acid.
20110961|A new foliicolous lichen species, Enterographa oregonensis (Ascomycota: Arthoniales: Roccellaceae) is described from temperate coastal North America. It differs from similar, tropical species in its combination of 5(-7)-septate spores, a gelatinous perispore, short lirellae and presence of gyrophoric acid. The ecology of this species is discussed and a conservation assessment is recommended.
23321066|The formerly monotypic genus Eotrichocolea is enlarged to accommodate E. furukii, a new species from Southeast Asia. Eotrichocolea furukii is characterized by incubous leaf insertion, robust stem without paraphyllia, well-developed stem cortex, heavily thickened walls at the distal ends of terminal cells of cilia, and absence of Acromastigum-type branching.
10.2307/3242114|Spores of the united and separable spore races of Sphaerocarpos donnellii Aust. were studied with the scanning electron microscope. The spore coat material of the united spore race is continuous and unbroken between adjacent spores of a tetrad. In the separable spore race, however, the tetrad is tenuously held together by strands of wall material which are easily broken by mechanical pressure. An abnormal spore type, similar to a spore type developed in the laboratory, following ultraviolet light radiation, is described from a Florida collection.
20061075|The taxonomic and nomenclatural implications of phylogenetic studies of the Bryaceae are presented. Bryum algovicum Mll. Hal., B. archangelicum Mll. Hal., B. capillare Hedw., B. bimum (Schreb.) Turner, B. cyclophyllum (Schwgr.) Bruch & Schimp., B. donianum Grev., B. lisae De Not., B. meesioides Kindb., B. orthothecium Card. & Broth., B. pallens Sw., B. pallescens Schwgr., B. purpurascens (R. Br.) Bruch & Schimp., B. uliginosum (Brid.) Bruch & Schimp., and B. wrightii Sull. are transferred to Plagiobryum Lindb. Brachymenium acuminatum Harv., B. philonotula Broth., and B. preissianum Hampe (A. Jaeger) are transferred to Bryum Hedw. Finally, the genus Imbribryum is described comprising B. alpinum With, B. blandum Hook. f. & Wilson, and Bryum muehlenbeckii Bruch & Schimp.
20485775|In this study, the occurrence of Dermatocarpon meiophyllizum, Leptogium rivale and Peltigera hydrothyria on federal land in western Oregon and Washington, and northern California is documented using a large-scale random sampling approach amplified by historical site data, frequency, distribution and habitat "preferences," including water quality, forest age and land use allocations. A total of 256 sites were surveyed, of which 216 were randomly selected. All three species were distributed throughout the study area in all three states, and mostly in interior mountain ranges. Only L. rivale was widespread, and both D. meiophyllizum and P. hydrothyria appear to be rare in the region but can become locally common in some watersheds. All three lichens probably benefit from older streamside forests, but association with forest age was inconclusive at the watershed level. Federal protective land use allocations and Aquatic Conservation Strategy components appear to play a minor role in protecting existing populations for the three aquatic lichens. Climate factors appear to be of major importance to habitat suitability for the three aquatic lichens. Results from this study suggest the following habitat summaries for the three aquatic lichens. Higher elevation, exposed streams with large rocks or bedrock appear to be important habitat for D. meiophyllizum. This lichen was also often found above the stream water level. Leptogium rivale was found most frequently in shallow, partially shaded streams and submerged or just above the water level. For P. hydrothyria, this study suggests that cool, partially shaded small mountain streams are important habitat; however, this only appears to be habitat characteristics for this lichen from southern Washington and southward in the study area. In Washington's North Cascades and in to British Columbia, P. hydrothyria is often observed in colder, higher elevation exposed sites. Upper 95% confidence interval values for stream sites suggests good water quality across the region: dissolved oxygen = 9.60 mg, conductivity = 78 S/cm, pH = 7.51, nitrogen = 0.07 mg and phosphorus = 0.024 mg. Benthic diatom-based indices suggest that these aquatic lichens are subject to siltation and high flow stream scouring. Results from this study can be used to guide management in the face of global climate change and research needs are discussed.
10.2307/3241642|Mounds of three species of Cladonia were divided into three sections: top 2.5 cm, bottom 2.5 cm, and the midsection. Gamma-ray spectrometric analyses were made on the individual sections using a 400-channel analyzer. Cesium-137 was the dominant fallout radionuclide found in the samples, with concentrations of 32-91 pc/g dry weight. The top 2.5 cm of the lichen mound had significantly more Cs-137 than either the mid- or bottom sections.
41289755|We investigated the locomotory apparatus of the mid-stage spermatid of Aneura pinguis in order to gain a better understanding of the evolution and development of gamete ultrastructure in liverworts. The locomotory apparatus consists of two staggered but overlapping basal bodies and a multilayered structure made up of a spline and lamellar strip. The basal bodies include a transition region between the basal body and flagellum containing a short stellate pattern and dense matrix. The spline's maximum width is 20 microtubules and reduces in number at the posterior of the multilayered structure; however, this number appears variable at the mid-stage of development and so it is recommended that the mature spermatozoid be investigated for this feature. The anterior basal body is situated over the spline aperture, which measures 2 microtubules in width and 0.85 m in length. The lamellar strip measures 4.06 m in length and 0.60 m in width, and is spatulate in shape with a right lateral offset or keel. When compared with Riccardia multifida, the two locomotory apparatuses share an overall similarity of features, such as a closed spline aperture, similar lamellar strip shapes, and similar stellate pattern lengths. However, A. pinguis has several distinctive features, such a wider spline and a longer posterior basal body that may be adaptations associated with a rapid increase in DNA from a polyploidization event. These results are fully consistent with an 85 year old light microscope study where illustrations depict a similar posterior flagellum distance from the front of the cell. Observations of male gametes of liverworts are imperative to illuminating details of character evolution within this lineage and could provide a model for further understanding of evolutionary modifications in the development of complex cells.
10.2307/3242524|Sphagnum quinquefarium (Braithw.) Warnst. is reported from two localities in western North America, in coastal regions of British Columbia and Oregon. The species is otherwise known, in North America, only from the East, from Newfoundland southward to North Carolina and Tennessee and a few inland stations in Ontario, Michigan and Minnesota.
10.2307/3241558|A new type of soredium-like granule is described from species of Peltula and compared with soredia. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy and light microscopy of these new structures reveals that these unique granules lack the outer fungal covering which characterizes soredia but have fungal hyphae and haustoria in the center of clumps of algae. This type of granule is intermediate between hormocysts and soredia and probably represents the most primitive type of soredium. Peltula is the most primitive genus evolutionarily to produce soredia. A wider definition of soredia is given to include this primitive type.
10.2307/3243115| A third set of 75 lichens from Canada has recently been distributed by the National Museums of Canada (CANL) to 35 institutions throughout the world. Included are isotypes for one new species (Caloplaca litoricola Brodo) described in this paper. One new combination is made: Cetraria ciliaris var. halei (Culb. & C. Culb.) Ahti. There are two new records for Canada: (Micarea tuberculata (Somm.) R. Anderson, and Ochrolechia laevigata (Rs.) Vers.J. Distribution maps are presented for Cetraria ciliaris var. ciliaris, C. ciliaris var. halei, C. platyphylla and Xylographa opegraphella; Ochrolechia geminipara is shown to be better classified as a Pertusaria; and the chemistry of 68 species are given, based on the exsiccat specimens. Special notes are also presented for the following species: Bactrospora dryina, Cetraria idahoensis, Cladonia symphycarpa, Collema furfuraceum, Fuscidea recensa, Lecania cyrtellina, Lecidea cinnabarina, Stereocaulon rivulorum, Usnea scabrata, Verrucaria erichsenii, and Xanthoria papillifera. 
10.2307/3242822|Some morphological characters further biological functions in the Marchantiales but do not appear to be essential for survival, reproduction and dispersal. Some others, seemingly disadvantageous, do not prevent the continued existence of these plants. Adaptation to ecological niches is principally linked to biochemical and biophysical properties of the cell content that are not expressed in morphology.
10.2307/3242228|Telaranea nematodes (Gottsche ex Austin) M.A.Howe, Sphagnum perichaetiale Hampe and Brotherella recurvans (Michaux) Fleischer are reported from the Big Thicket of eastern Texas. The first two species represent westward range extensions of southeastern Coastal Plain elements, while the third is a dramatic southward extension for a moss of northern latitudes and high elevations. These new additions to the flora of the Big Thicket enhance its status as a "meeting ground" for elements of several distinct floras. A list of 27 species new to five counties in eastern Texas is also included.
40732294|Except for Sphagnum mosses of peatland habitats, reliable methods to assess moss productivity in arctic or boreal biomes give usually highly variable results. Therefore, ecosystem processes are poorly understood in these biomes where mosses are an important component of the system. The aim of this study was to compare three methods to estimate moss growth in polygon patterned fens: cranked wires, natural markers and artificial white marks (an alternative to the spray method). Precision of estimates was significantly higher when natural markers were used (coefficients of variation, CV, between 17 and 27%), compared to cranked wires (CV= 37%) or white marks (CV= 56%). Natural markers also provided estimates for growth of moss stems 32 to 113% higher than the other methods. Although cranked wires were calibrated shortly after snowmelt, some moss growth is still missed and consequently moss growth is underestimated. Accuracy of cranked wires was poor, mainly caused by frost heaving or permafrost activities that can affect wire position. Thus, this method should be avoided in arctic ecosystems. Even if white marks were painted on moss stems at the end of the growing season prior to the sampling year, lower estimates of moss growth were still found. We suspect some interference with moss growth processes during the marking process, at least when used with brown mosses. The natural marker method, which provides increment for an entire growing season, appears to be the most accurate method of the three. Additionally, it is also the easiest and the least time consuming method to use. Its main drawback is that relatively few species have natural growth marks and these species may not always be present among the targeted species under study. Also, measurements of stem growth on the same sample did not differ between observers, even if the second measurement was done 12 years later. In conclusion, when species with natural markers are present, this method should be used to assess moss growth. For arctic/sub-arctic studies where such species are lacking, the artificial white marks method should be refined further.
20110772|Dermatocarpon tomentulosum is newly described from North American and the Bahama Islands. This species is characterized by a lower cortex which bears a tomentum of moniliform hyphae. It is closely related to D. moulinsii and D. schaechtelinii, but differs from both in bearing delicate, linear hyphae on the lower surface of the thallus, and not rhizinomorphs.
10.2307/3243008|The polytypic family Lepidoziaceae, subdivided into 7 subfamilies, includes two groups, the Bazzanioideae and Lepidozioideae, which are normally very distinct in the pseudodichotomous branching of the former vs. the plumose branching of the latter. The new genus Dendrobazzania Schust. & Schof, based on Mastigobryum griffithianum Steph., falls midway between the two groups: it has the asymmetric, tridentate leaves and coarse trigones of Bazzanioideae, but the plumose branching of most Lepidozioideae. Dendrobazzania is a relict, known only from sterile plants, whose range is confined to Bhutan-Bengal and the Queen Charlotte Islands.
10.2307/3244406| Dimerella kawanae Harada & Vzda is described as new from Chiba-ken, central Japan. It occurs on trunks of deciduous hardwoods. 
10.2307/3244554|The knowledge of the distribution and habitat demands for bryophytes in the Pacific Northwest is scarce, and few published quantitative accounts of the flora are present. The present paper includes habitat description, elevational range, substrate preference, and frequency estimates for more than 130 riparian mosses and liverworts found in old-growth Pseudotsuga-Tsuga forests of the H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest, Oregon. The data are based on 360 samples distributed among 42 sites covering 1st to 5th order streams and 420 to 1250 m. TWINSPAN analysis resulted in 6 sample groups, representing samples from different elevations, geomorphic surfaces, and stream sizes. The most common mosses are Eurhynchium oreganum, Isothecium stoloniferum, Hypnum circinale, and Dicranum fuscescens. Among the hepatics Scapania bolanderi, Cephalozia lunulifolia, and Porella navicularis are the most abundant species. Most species are rare at both site and sample plot level, and this is especially true for acrocarps where more than one-third of the observed species occurred in only one or two sites or/and samples. Four of the occurring species (i.e., Antitrichia curtipendula, Buxbaumia piperi, Douinia ovata, and Ptilidium californicum) are listed for special management and/or regional surveys.
10.2307/3243102|In nature, the vegetative shoots of Haplomitrium mnioides (Lindb.) Schust. are prostrate and display a novel pattern of anisophylly in which the reduced row of leaves is dorsal rather than ventral, while the fertile shoots are erect and nearly isophyllous. In both cases, the leaves are typically entire and subrotund to broadly ovate. When grown on moistened vermiculite in environmental chambers, however, the vegetative shoots assume an erect, nearly isophyllous habit, and, along with the fertile shoots, produce bifid or incised leaves. Both normal prostrate and culture-induced erect shoots were studied using serial sections and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) in order to determine if changes in apical organization are correlated with these changes in habit. A tetrahedral apical cell with nearly equal cutting faces was found to be responsible for growth in both types of shoots and the apical derivatives were found to divide as in the Metzgeriales so that but a single leaf initial is formed per merophyte. Thus, in both the normal entire and culture-induced divided leaves, initial growth is by a single depressed-avoid apical cell, which in the bifid leaves eventually cuts itself in two. The lateral projections of the incised leaves each develop from a cell on the margin of an already expanded leaf. In anisophyllous shoots, cell divisions in the developing dorsal leaves are arrested at an earlier stage than in the lateral ones. In basic patterns of apical organization and leaf ontogeny, H. mnioides resembles H. hookeri (Smith) Nees and H. blumei (Nees) Schust., and all three appear in these characters to be more closely aligned with the Metzgeriales than with the Jungermanniales or Takakiophyta.
10.2307/3243830|Braunia nephelogenes is described from the sub-Andean cloud forest of Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia. It is easily recognized by its long subulate leaves, narrow sinuose laminar cells, subglobose furrowed capsules, and multicellular spores. This species is epiphytic, unlike most other species in Braunia which are epilithic.
25614907|A report of Erpodium hodgkinsoniae from Norfolk Island is based on erroneous determinations of Dicnemon subpiliferum. The Norfolk Island collections of D. subpiliferum are the first report of the species outside of New Caledonia.
10.2307/3243013| Current studies indicate that the moss flora of the Mexican states Campeche, Yucatn and Quintana Roo consists of at least 64 species and varieties. These include 18 species not previously known from the area. Trichosteleum sentosum (Sull.) Jaeg. is, in addition, new to Mexico. 
10.2307/3242478|Anthelia juratzkana (Limpr.) Trev. is associated with a blue-green alga, Gloeocapsa montana Kuetz., the gelatinous sheaths of which are responsible for the waxy, whitish appearance, along with a fungus growing in the sheaths and another fungus forming a mycorrhiza-lihe symbiosis with the liverwort.
10.2307/3242339|Revision of the Holomitrium species from the Antilles led to the establishment of the genus Macrodictyum (Broth.) Hegew. gen. & stat. nov. and to reduction of the number of species. Holomitrium calycinum (Hedw.) Mitt. (syn. nov.: H. marginatum Mitt.) and Macrodictyum wrightii (Sull.) Hegew. are Antillean endemics. Macrodictyum proliferum (Mitt.) Hegew. (syn. nov.: Holomitrium maxonii Williams, H. wrightii var. latifolium Bartr.) is also known from Brazil. Holomitrium arboreum Mitt. is widespread in the Andes and is also known from Guianas, Brazil, Paraguay and Puerto Rico. Holomitrium macrocarpum C. Muell. is not a synonym of Leptodontium viticulosoides var. viticulosoides.
10.2307/3240800|The behavior during meiosis of the chromosomes of Dawsonian longiseta Hampe, D. polytrichoides R. Br., and D. pulchra Wijk are studied. A chromosome number of n = 7 is recorded for all three. A count of 2n = 14 in the archesporial cells of D. longiseta and D. pulchra confirms this number and the karyotypes of these two species are compared with those previously given by Yano for the Polytrichaceae. The close taxonomic relationship between the Polytrichaceae and Dawsoniaceae is supported by the cytological evidence.
10.2307/3240488|Sphagnum pylaesii and S. angermanicum are reported for the first time from Quebec. Their distribution in the maritime provinces of eastern Canada and Newfoundland is similar in spite of their different habitat requirements. Sphagnum pylaesii is able to grow under nearly arctic conditions in northern Labrador although it is a southern species in Europe; S. angermanicum is limited to temperate eastern Canada while it is a northern species in Europe. Sphagnum pylaesii also occurs in South America.
10.2307/3243054|Twenty-one Campylopus species are reported for the first time from Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto Rico and Venezuela.
10.2307/3240655|Thamnolia vermicularis var. solida and T. subuliformis var. subsolida are described from the Andes of Peru. They differ from the corresponding typical varieties in having solid rather than hollow thalli. Thamnolia subuliformis had not previously been reported from South America.
10.2307/3242830|15 Campylopus species are reported for the first time from Bolivia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and Venezuela.
10.2307/3241832| New: Atrichum undulatum var. oerstedianum (C. Mll.) n. stat., Callicladium n. gen. & C. haldanianum (Grev.) n. comb., Dicranoweisia crispula var. roellii (Kindb. ex Rll) n. stat., Griminia alpicola var. dupretii (Thr.) n. comb., Pogonatum alpinum var. fragile (Bryhn) n. comb., Sphagnum capillaceum var. tenerum (Sull. & Lesq. ex Sull.) n. stat., Vesicularia caloosiensis (Aust.) n. comb., Weissia hedwigii nom. nov. for Hymenostomum microstomum (Hedw.) R. Br., Wijkia n. nom., W. sect. Acanthocladiopsis (Fleisch.) n. comb., W. sect. Tanythrix (Fleisch.) n. comb., W. albescens (Thr. & P. de la Varde ex P. de la Varde) n. comb., W. annamensis (Broth, ex Thr.) n. comb., W. baculifera (Dix.) n. comb., W. benguetensis (Broth.) n. comb, & var. latifolia (Bartr.) n. comb., W. bessonii (Ren. & Card.) n. comb., W. brevifolia (Dix.) n. comb., W. carlottae (Schof.) n. comb., W. ceylonensis (Broth, & Dix. ex Dix.) n. comb., W. clarkii (Dix.) n. comb., W. concavifolia (Card.) n. comb., W. costaricensis (Bartr. & Dix. ex Bartr.) n. comb., W. crossii (Broth, & Geh. ex Broth.) n. comb., W. deflexifolia (Ren. & Card.) n. comb., W. dentigera (Dix.) n. comb., W. doii (Sak.) n. comb., W. extenuata (Brid.) n. comb., W. filipendula (Dix.) n. comb., W. flagellifera (Broth.) n. comb., W. gonoi (Broth, ex Iish.) n. comb., W. gracilis (Bartr.) n. comb., W. hornschuchii (Dozy & Molk.) n. comb. & var. robusta (Zant.) n. comb., W. jacobsonii (Dix.) n. comb., W. juliformis (Herz. & Dix. ex Dix.) n. comb., W. jungneri (Broth.) n. comb. & var. subintegrifolia (P. de la Varde) n. comb., W. laxa (Dix.) n. comb., W. laxitexta (Ren. & Card.) n. comb., W. lepida (Mitt.) n. comb., W. letestui (Thr. & P. de la Varde) n. comb., W. longipila (Broth, ex Hoss.) n. comb., W. macgregori (Broth, & Geh. ex Broth.) n. comb., W. madagassa (Thr.) n. comb., W. nakanishikii (Broth.) n. comb., W. nivea (Herz.) n. comb., W. papillata (Zant.) n. comb., W. pendula (Zant.) n. comb., W. penicillata (Mitt.) n. comb., W. pilifera (Broth.) n. comb., W. pinnata (Fleisch.) n. comb., W. polymorpha (Dix.) n. comb., W. protensa (Ren. & Card.) n. comb., W. radiculosa (Baumg. & J. Frhl. ex J. Frhl.) n. comb., W. rigidifolia (Dix.) n. comb., W. rutenbergii (C. Mll, ex C. Mll, & Geh.) n. comb, & var. eflagellaris (Card.) n. comb., W. sublepida (Broth.) n. comb., W. subnitida (Hampe) n. comb., W. surcularis (Mitt.) n. comb., W. tanytricha (Mont.) n. comb., W. trichocolea (C. Mll.) n. comb. & var. subintegrifolia (Thr. & P. de la Varde) n. comb., W. trichocoleoides (C. Mll.) n. comb. 
10.2307/3240717|Ninety-six taxa - 77 species, 10 varieties, and 9 forms - are reported from Alaska primarily from collections made by Hannah T. Croasdale. Eighty-six taxa are reported from Mt. McKinley Park and 47 from stations along the Koyukuk River.
25614867|Many epiphytes in Swedish beech forests are associated with old and damaged trees. In this study we examined the impact of bark, soil and stemflow pH, water-holding capacity and bark structures on this association. We also analyzed whether the influence of these factors differed between species of conservation concern (red-listed and indicator species of woodland key habitats) and species not of conservation concern. One hundred and one age-determined living beech trees (range 58-277 yrs) in 13 beech-dominated stands were surveyed in a forest landscape in southern Sweden. We recorded 119 species in total (76 lichens, 43 bryophytes) of which 21 were red-listed and 17 indicator species (26 lichens, 12 bryophytes). NMS ordination showed that the species composition of lichens changed primarily with tree age and along the gradient of smooth bark versus moss cover. Bark pH and tree vitality were the most important gradients for bryophyte composition. The combination of old damaged beech trees and high bark pH resulted in the highest mean number of species of conservation concern for both lichens and bryophytes. The link between these factors is partly explained by a positive effect of tree age on the stemflow pH. Species number of bryophytes not of conservation concern increased with bark pH, whereas the corresponding group of lichens was favored primarily by increased light availability. Neither the water-holding capacity of bark nor soil pH affected patterns of species number. The results from this study show that old beech trees infected by fungi, with a higher bark pH, are the most valuable trees for epiphytes of conservation concern.
10.2307/3240624| The chromosome number and observations on chromosome behavior of six species of mosses from Washington are reported for the first time. Four of the species are endemic to northwestern North America and two species belong to genera not previously studied (Dichodontium and Plagiopus). The n chromosome numbers are: Bryum sandbergii Holz., 11; Buxbaumia piperi Best, 8; Dichodontium olympicum Ren. & Card, ex Card. & Thr., 14; Mnium venustum Mitt., 12; Plagiopus oederi (Brid.) Limpr., 7; and Tortula latifolia (Bruch) Hartm., 12. 
10.2307/3242395| The inclusion of 2,4-D, 1-10 mg/l, in the nutrient solution caused a concentration-dependent epinastic coiling of the thallus branches of axenically cultured Riccia duplex Lorbeer ex Mller. The addition of 10 mg/l kinetin intensified the effect of 2,4-D at any given 2,4-D concentration. Kinetin alone had no distinct effect on R. duplex, but caused marked widening of the thallus of R. rhenana Lorbeer ex Mller. The difference in width between kinetin-treated and untreated plants was similar to that between the wide land form and the narrow water form of R. rhenana. 
10.2307/3243074|One hundred nine taxa critical to an understanding of the bryogeography of the Interior Highlands of North America are grouped according to their probable phytogeographic history. The taxa reinforce the concepts that the Interior Highlands have served as (1) a refugium for boreal, temperate and austral/tropical taxa of the Arcto-Tertiary Geoglora taxa during glaciation of the Pleistocene, (2) as a dispersal center for temperate and tropical taxa to the south and southwest and (3) as a route for the eastern dispersal of many xeric western and southwestern taxa during xeric periods of the Tertiary and Quaternary.
10.2307/3244477|Micarea myriocarpa, Pertusaria coccodes, and Phaeographis smithii are reported new to North America from the Pacific coast of the United States.
3244330|The green algal symbionts of the lichenized fungus Letharia are identified as members of the morphospecies Trebouxia jamesii, based on ITS sequences that place them in a molecularly diverse clade with other lichen algae also identified as T. jamesii. However, based on additional sequence from a second locus, actin, T. jamesii is seen to consist of many phylogenetic species. A clade of six to seven closely related phylogenetic species of T. jamesii are symbiotic with five of the six phylogenetic species of Letharia. Within this broad level of specificity, there are also narrower patterns of specificity. For example, three cryptic species of T. jamesii were found only in two species of Letharia in California, a pattern that may be due either to biogeography, or to Letharia phylogenetically tracking Trebouxia. Allopatric Letharia vulpina has switched to a genetically distant phylogenetic species within the T. jamesii morphospecies, suggesting that habitat plays a role in specificity. One phylogenetic species of T. jamesii was found to have a recombining population structure, as two alleles of two loci were found in all four pairwise combinations among the haploid genotypes of that species. This result suggests that Trebouxia, a genus in which sexual structures have never been observed, is nevertheless recombining.
3244775|Colonies of Bazzania trilobata (L.) S. Gray, a common and abundant species on the floor of closed canopy mixed and coniferous forests in New Brunswick, were observed to be pale and dry within a 2-yr-old clear-cut area. This multi-part study used a combination of approaches to assess the species' tolerance of various drying regimes. 1) To determine viability of field-dried shoots, bundles of shoots from the clear-cut and from an adjacent closed canopy forest (controls) were compared in terms of color and net photosynthetic rate (using Infra Red Gas Analysis, IRGA) before and after two months of laboratory "recovery" conditions (light, temperature, and humidity similar to those documented in closed canopy forest). Shoot elongation during recovery was also quantified. Field-dried shoots were viable: following recovery period, they had increased in length, shifted in hue, and displayed positive net photosynthesis, however none of these measures of metabolic activity equaled those of the controls. 2) The moisture content at saturation, determined for reference, was 1296.4% by weight. 3) The drying effect of the IRGA process was evaluated by subjecting moist pre-weighed bundles of shoots to three successive sequences of IRGA, re-weighing, and 24 hr of recovery. IRGA resulted in slight (approximately 40%) moisture loss from shoots initially averaging 368.9% moisture (S.E. = 9.96%), but did not cause a significant decrease in net photosynthesis within this range. 4) Tolerance of drying was tested on freshly collected, forest-acclimated moist shoots. Initial net photosynthesis (by IRGA) and moisture content were determined for replicate bundles of shoots. These were then subjected to drying for 1, 2, 4, 7, and 12 d, while control groups were stored at recovery conditions. Net photosynthesis and moisture content were re-measured after drying, and again after 24 hr of recovery. Moisture content of controls declined by approximately 40% during IRGA, and gradually thereafter in recovery conditions; net carbon gain declined over the course of the study. Moisture content of dried shoots declined by an order of magnitude in all treatments, but returned to near control levels after recovery. However, net photosynthesis dropped to zero with drying, and did not resume after rehydration. In view of the sensitivity of B. trilobata to laboratory drying, and its viability on a 2-yr-old clear-cut, we suggest that a) field conditions are neither as serere nor as prolonged as those tested in the laboratory and b) the colonial form prevents inner shoots from uniform exposure to severe conditions.
10.2307/3240837| Mnium ambiguum H. Mll., M. andrewsianum Steere, and M. trichomanes Mitt. are reported from Colorado, and their known ranges thereby significantly extended. 
10.2307/3243997| Microdendron sinense Broth. (Polytrichaceae) is transferred to Pogonatum, as Pogonatum sinense (Broth.) Hyvnen & Wu comb. nov. The sporophyte of the species is described in detail for the first time. 
10.2307/3243438| Two collections referable to Orthotrichum truncato-dentatum C. Mll., from Montevideo, Uruguay, were located in the herbarium of the New York Botanical Garden, making it possible for the first time to give a complete description and illustration of this species. It is closely related to O. araucarieti C. Mll. ex Broth., and known only from now urbanized areas of Uruguay and Argentina and not collected for 100 years. It is thus a species only known from extinct habitats. 
10.2307/3241696|Cladonia polycarpia, an endemic of the coastal plain of the southeastern United States, consistently produces atranorin and norstictic and stictic acids. Records of this species from western North America are referable to C. cariosa and C. symphycarpa. Cladonia polycarpoides is abundant and widely distributed in the East but absent from most of the range of C. polycarpia. It produces norstictic acid and lacks stictic acid and atranorin. Cladonia subcariosa, a rare species producing atranorin and norstictic acid, is known from Cuba and a few localities in the Atlantic coastal plain.
10.2307/3242955|Sphagnum austinii Sull. is a common hummock former in open weakly minerotrophic peatlands along the Pacific coast of North America from Washington to southeastern Alaska. It also occurs along the eastern North American coast and in Europe. Separation from the closely related S. portoricense is made by the less pronounced branch cortical cell projections with end pores adjacent to the wood cylinder.
10.2307/3243721|The effect of environmental factors on the content of usnic acid was examined using the cultivated lichen mycobiont of Ramalina siliquosa. There was no correlation between light intensity and the content of usnic acid or 4-O-demethylbarbatic acid. The content of usnic acid changed with variations in temperature.
20110876|Microstelium hyalinum Pat. and Acrospermum puiggarii Speg., established as non-lichenized fungi in 1899 and 1919, respectively, are conspecific with Gomphillus ophiosporus Kalb & Vzda, a muscicolous lichen described in 1988, widespread and common throughout the Neotropics. This is another example where crustose lichens with reduced thallus morphology have been mistaken for non-lichenized fungi hidden in often obscure and barely known fungal genera, with epithets that have priority over well-established lichen names. The options of conservation or rejection of names are inappropriate to solve this problem, since names currently in use can only be conserved against those rejected at the same time, and each discovery of an earlier epithet requires a conservation and rejection proposal [ICBN Art. 14.4]. Alternative solutions would be conserving names over unlisted synonyms, as currently possible for spermatophyte and bryophyte families [ICBN Art. 14.5], or automatically conserving names in current use under specific conditions as practiced in zoological nomenclature [ICZN Art. 23.9]. Since these options are currently unavailable for species names in botanical nomenclature, and a conservation proposal according to ICBN Art. 14.4 would have little chance of success, the new combination Gomphillus hyalinus (Pat.) Lcking, Kalb & Vzda is introduced.
10.2307/3241229|By the classical morphology-paramount taxonomic theory the Parmelia perforata group, common epiphytes in the eastern United States, has two species, the esorediate-fertile P. perforata and the sorediate-sterile P. hypotropa. Both species have three identical chemical races. Two largely allopatric races, one predominately coastal and the other predominately inland, of the sorediate-sterile morph have measurably different niche characteristics in the region where they are sympatric. The stictic-constictic-norstictic race is better adapted to the coastal macroclimate and to coniferous substrates than the norstictic-connorstictic race. The latter is geographically and ecologically more like the corresponding chemical race of the esorediate-fertile morph than like the chemically different races from which it is morphologically indistinguishable. The asexual P. hypotropa sens. lat. is polyphyletic, a series of chemical races independently derived by parallel evolution from corresponding chemical races of the sexual P. perforata sens. lat. Seven species are recognized of which six are North American. Two endemics are new, P. preperforata W. Culb. from Texas and Louisiana and P. parahypotropa W. Culb. from Formosa.
20110955|Evidence is accumulating that significant amounts of substances can move internally in ectohydric bryophytes, which lack specialized structures for internal water movement. This potential for resource translocation is likely to affect the productivity in individual shoot sections. We tested whether annual growth intervals in the pleurocarpous moss Pseudocalliergon trifarium were performing as independent units by comparing the biomass of annual increments within individual shoots from 13 populations from northern and central Sweden. Pseudocalliergon trifarium has a distinct shoot architecture with discrete annual segments and is therefore well suited to study annual biomass allocation patterns. Mass of the most recent growth interval was directly correlated with segment mass of at least two preceding years. The strength of the relationship between current growth and four consecutively older annual increments decreased linearly with age of the annual segments, suggesting that correlations within shoots were the result of resource translocation rather than of among-year correlations in local environmental factors. Our data suggest that interconnected segments are physiologically integrated, and that size relationships between successive increments are relatively independent of environmental conditions. We conclude that annual growth intervals cannot be considered as independent assimilatory units. Internal resource transfer across annual segments may buffer variation in external availability of or internal demands for resources, and has implications for the understanding of growth patterns and reproductive investments in ectohydric bryophytes.
10.2307/3241314|Orthotrichum diaphanum Brid., Polytrichum commune Hedw., Pseudoscleropodium purum (Hedw.) Fl., and Rhacomitrium lanuginosum (Hedw.) Brid. var. lanuginosum are new to the Hawaiian Islands. Twenty new island records are also reported.
10.2307/3243120| Sphagnum arcticum (Sect. Acutifolia) is known by the brown color and habit of the plants, the pale brown or yellowish-brown stem sclerodermis, the occurrence of scattered pores in the surface cells of the stem hyalodermis, and the lingulate to sometimes lingulate-spathulate stem leaves, which are obtuse to obtuse-truncate and fimbriate-lacerate at the apex. The new species shows closest affinity to S. subfulvum Sjrs, S. fimbriatum Wils. and S. girgensohnii Russ. It is reported from Svalbard, Greenland, Siberia and Arctic Canada. 
10.2307/3243408|In North America and Europe six species of Pseudoleskeella Kindb. (Leskeaceae) are recognized: P. nervosa (Brid.) Loeske, P. sibirica (Arn.) P. Wilson & Norris, comb. et stat. nov. (based on Leskea nervosa (Brid.) Myr. var. sibirica Arn.), P. tectorum (Brid.) Kindb. ex Broth., P. serpentinense P. Wilson & Norris, sp. nov., P. catenulata (Brid. ex Schrad.) Kindb., and P. papillosa (Lindb.) Kindb. Previous North American records of P. catenulata and of P. papillosa are rejected; the other species are present in North America. In Europe, all of the species except P. serpentinense are found. Provided are a key, descriptions, illustrations, and ranges. Removed from the genus is Lescuraea arizonae (Williams) P. Wilson & Norris, comb. nov. (based on Psuedoleskea arizonae Williams).
10.2307/3242975|An electrophoretic survey of the moss Atrichum angustatum (Brid.) B.S.G. showed varying degrees of staining activity for eight of the ten specific enzymes surveyed. Of the eight active systems, four were scoreable: acid phosphatase, glutamate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase and phosphoglucoisomerase. Comparisons of 15 populations of A. angustatum utilizing these four enzyme systems indicated significant levels of genetic variability both within and among populations. The traditional view of bryophytes as genetically impoverished organisms with severely limited potential for response to natural selection is challenged by these results.
10.2307/3242218|The known moss flora of the Liquidambar forest of Mexico consists of 194 species, 1 subspecies and 7 varieties which can be grouped in 8 phytogeographic elements according to their overall distribution. Four of these elements are strictly American and constitute nearly 70 percent of the total; the remaining 4 have wider ranges. In general this moss flora has a wide altitudinal and latitudinal spread in Mexico as evidenced by high Coefficients of Community and IBD (Index of Biotal Dispersity) values. Historically, the Liquidambar forest moss flora is largely the result of migration at various times through the Central American bridge and Antillean Arc. The present mixture of "tropical" and "temperate" species in the Liquidambar forest of Mexico is due to climatic deterioration and altitudinal and latitudinal displacement of vegetation in Quaternary time.
10.2307/3243312|A total of 127 bryophyte species (50 mosses, 76 liverworts, and 1 hornwort) was encountered in the inner crowns of six Ficus tuerckheimmi trees in a lower montane wet forest landscape: 109 on three intact forest trees and 76 on three isolated trees. Fifty-two species were found only on the intact forest trees, while only 18 species were exclusive to the isolated trees. Bryophyte species richness, bryophyte cover, and the frequency of pendents, tall turfs, tails, and fans were significantly higher in intact forest trees. Inner crowns of isolated trees had higher rates of evaporation, had higher macrolichen cover, and were more exposed to sunlight than inner crowns of intact forest trees. Ordination analysis revealed one dominant pattern in bryophyte composition in the inner canopy: a desiccation gradient ranging from sheltered sites in the intact forest trees to exposed sites in the isolated trees.
43188711|Genetic markers from horizontal starch gel electrophoresis show clearly that boreal-arctic C. stygium, a bisexual polyploid with n = 14, is closely related to C. arcticum and C. latifolium, unisexual haploids with n = 7. One locus of C. stygium shows fixed heterozygosity, suggesting an allopolyploid origin with these two haploids as progenitors. Two other loci, which are heterozygous in >90% of all plants screened, also support this view. It is also possible, however, that C. stygium is an autopolyploid, most likely of C. arcticum, in which meiosis has become regularized. Despite strong morphological differences between them, we detected only one fixed allelic difference between C. arcticum and C. latifolium. For C. subrotundum, another bisexual polyploid with n = 14, the evidence for allopolyploidy is very strong, with seven fixed heterozygous loci out of 17 scored. One of the lineages involved is similar to that of C. arcticum and C. latifolium, but the other is highly divergent from any known extant species of Cinclidium. It is quite possible, however, that additional, highly divergent species exist or, at least, once existed, as our screening of populations from Alaska turned up a new, highly genetically distinct species that experts have previously mistakenly referred to C. latifolium.
10.2307/3243174|The genus Seligeria in New Zealand is represented by two species-S. cardotii R. Br. and S. diminuta (R. Br.) Dixon. The former is closely related to S. pusilla in the subgenus Seligeria; the latter to S. recurvata in the subgenus Cyrtoseligeria. The close relationships of both of these endemic species to broadly distributed Northern Hemisphere species and the presence of additional apotypic character states in the New Zealand taxa suggest long-distance dispersal and subsequent evolutionary divergence. Seligeria cardotii is distinguished from S. diminuta by pale coloration, linear vegetative leaves, straight setae, and hemispheric-obconic capsules with short exothecial cells; it is probably not uncommon in areas of exposed calcareous rocks on both islands. Seligeria diminuta, known from three collections, is rare and distinguished from the former species by dark coloration, subulate-ovate vegetative leaves, markedly cygneous setae and oblongovate capsules with longer exothecial cells.
20061064|A comprehensive revision of the genus Protousnea is presented based on morphological, chemical, anatomical, and extensive field studies in the Patagonian Andes and Tierra del Fuego, as well as by comparisons with herbarium material. A complete chemical profile is detailed for each species and sekikaic acid has been shown to be the major medullary metabolite. The new despide, 4-O-demethylsubsekikaic acid, is described for the first time. The circumscription of species and intraspecific variability is discussed with reference to key morphological, anatomical, and chemical characters, as well as ecological preferences. Conidia are described for the first time. Protousnea malacea and P. scrobiculata have been synonymized with P. poeppigii. A key to the species is given. All the species are illustrated and new data are presented on their distribution, substrate preferences, and ecology.
10.2307/3241532|Fifty-nine species of leafy hepatics are reported from the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness (east side), Montana. Four are new to the state.
10.2307/3242477| Bryum (Subg. Anomobryum) ceramiocarpum C. Mll., Fabronia ciliaris (Brid.) Brid., Grimmia apocarpa var. pulvinata (Hedw.) Jones, Grimmia pulvinata (Hedw.) Sm., Plagiothecium cavifolium (Brid.) Iwats. and Trichostomum tenuirostre (Hook. & Tayl.) Lindb. are new to the Hawaiian Islands. Eleven new Maui records are reported and 27 locally rare taxa are discussed. 
3244278| Usnea pacificana P. Halonen, sp. nov., is reported from the Pacific coast of Canada and the United States. Usnea wasmuthii Rsnen is documented from the states of Washington and Oregon as new to North America. A key to the Usnea species that are similar or related to U. pacificana is provided. 
10.2307/3242023|The known Wyoming flora of Hepaticae consists of 75 species, a subspecies and 6 varieties in 34 genera and 20 families. Twenty-five taxa (23 species and 2 varieties) are reported as new to Wyoming.
10.2307/3243803|Pertusaria amarkantakana, P. colorata, P. himalayensis, P. idukkiensis, P. indica, P. nigrescens, P. rimosa, and P. splendens are described as new species of lichens from India.
10.2307/3243310|Gymnomitrion mucrophorum Schust., sp. n. of Alaska is described. It is closely allied to G. concinnatum from which it differs in the marked tendency to form serrulations of leaf lobes and the tendency for one lobe per leaf to be rounded to rounded-truncate. A key is given to separate these two taxafrom each other and from the putatively allied taxa, G. crenatilobum, G. obtusum and G. mucronulatum.
10.2307/3243936|Based on studies of mosses traditionally placed in the Isobryales and the Hypnobryales, four preliminary groups of taxa are recognized (large groups of tropical and southern hemispherical species were not considered). The four associations of taxa deviate from many current ideas on the higher taxonomy of pleurocarpous mosses, except that the traditional concept of the Isobryales is supported to some degree. To a large degree the groups are defined by characters which could be expected to be relatively stable from an evolutionary point of view, such as features of the sporophyte, perichaetial leaves, and rhizoids, which have rarely been used before at this level in pleurocarp taxonomy. Although many problems remain, the suggested relationships may point at some important deficiencies in the traditional systems.
10.2307/3241716|As the anomalous fleshy, hyaline, translucent seta of living sporophytes of Aplodon, resembling that of an hepatic, does not seem to have been reported previously, it is described and illustrated from material collected at Point Barrow, Alaska. At the end of the first season the swollen fleshy seta dehydrates and assumes the delicate, pale-yellow, silky condition seen in herbarium specimens and described in manuals. The known geographic distribution of this species is illustrated by a map that includes many recent collections, the majority of which were made within the Arctic Circle, a fact which thus further confirms the membership of this species in a typically high-arctic, circumpolar floristic element. The nomenclatural history of Aplodon wormskioldii is reviewed in order to elucidate why Robert Brown's original spelling, Aplodon, should be accepted instead of Haplodon, which under the present international code of botanical nomenclature has become an illegitimate name.
10.2307/3240950|One hundred twelve mosses are reported from Hawaii with 78 as new additions to the individual floras of the six larger islands. Eighteen species previously known from a single island have been found on other islands. Glossadelphus, previously known only from Maui, is reported from Kauai, Oahu, and Molokai.
10.2307/3244110|Hypotrachyna taylorensis (Mitch.) Hale and H. rockii (Zahlbr.) Hale are morphologically similar species with identical secondary substances, but so far as known these species have different distributions. Several thalli of H. taylorensis have been found in collections originally identified as H. rockii from North, Central, and South America. The lichen called H. rockii actually includes two species, one corresponding to H. rockii sensu stricto and the other to H. taylorensis. Hypotrachyna taylorensis usually has coarsely granular to schizidiate soredia developed on pustules and wrinkles, whereas the soralia of H. rockii are mainly subapical, subcapitate, and granular to farinose.
10.2307/3242315|Numerous grana-filled chloroplasts develop from a single plastid during spore maturation in Leptodictyum riparium (Hedw.) Warnst. The spores, which are colorless when young, pass through an orange phase before the mature green state is attained. The plastid of colorless spores newly released from tetrads exhibits two unusual internal structures associated with starch accumulation. One of these is a system of parallel thylacoid membranes outlining the expanding starch grains. The other is a system of evenly spaced stromal channels that form crib-like enclosures of starch grains. In orange spores, the plastid divides by successive constrictions involving both inner and outer membranes. A prolamellar body, apparently derived from invagination and subsequent isolation of vesicles from the inner plastid membrane, is associated with production of lamellae. In mature green spores, a centrally located nucleus is surrounded by several large fusiform chloroplasts with well-developed grana.
10.2307/3241496|Submerged-culture techniques have given growth of the mycobionts Cetraria islandica and Cladonia papillaria satisfactory for metabolic and chemical studies. Special apparatus for inoculation, metabolic studies, and culture maintenance is described. In conjunction with biosynthetic studies on (+)protolichesterinic acid (PLA), the metabolic rates of both organisms, in both the lichenized form as well as separately in culture, were found satisfacory for tracer studies. Using hydroponic administration of 10% glucose solution, sodium [1
10.2307/3242973|The effect of morphology on water uptake was examined in eleven species of lichen and three species of moss, using a "raining" wind tunnel environment. Experiments were conducted using a variety of species to test for the influence of specific morphological features such as rhizines, isidia, papules, apothecia and lamellae, in the control of water uptake and storage. Experiments were also conducted to test for the effect of variation in overall morphology on water uptake in lichens and mosses. The results show that rhizines play a major role in the water relations of some species, but not in all. Apothecia in Umbilicaria muhlenbergii have no role in water uptake, nor do the surface papules of U. papulosa or the surface isidia of U. deusta, although the lamellae of U. muhlenbergii are exceedingly important. The upper and lower cortices of lichens were also shown to have a variable capacity for water absorption. The variation in the amount of time required to achieve saturation was the same in the lichens and mosses. This time varied from three minutes in P. juniperinum to over 300 minutes in Stereocaulon saxatile. Plants with a large surface area to weight ratio absorb water at an exceedingly rapid rate. Conversely, any poikilohydric plant showing a low surface area to weight ratio absorbs water very slowly.
10.2307/3241241|Five species of Andreaea examined have four forms of rhizoids: uniseriate, biseriate, cell plate, and cylindric cell mass types. Some rhizoids are sheathed by a possible cementing layer.
3244819|Fissidens hyalinus Hook. & Wils. is often considered to be one of the rarest mosses in the United States. The species, however, is much more common than has previously been assumed. Sixty-five new collections of F. hyalinus, in combination with previous collections, document the species from 28 counties, 7 states, and 5 major physiographic provinces. The species is newly reported for Alabama, Tennessee, and Virginia. Fissidens hyalinus is most frequent on bare soil of streambanks in steep and deeply dissected landscapes with calcareous geology and mixed deciduous forests.
10.2307/3242019|Evidence from field investigations and laboratory tests indicate that the antherozoids of Dawsonia superba Grev. are dispersed by a splash-cup mechanism. Field studies of this dioecious species showed that sporophytes seldom develop further than 1.5-2 m from male plants; laboratory tests showed this to be only slightly less than the maximum splash distance obtained from droplets released up to heights of 3.3 m.
10.2307/3244404| The blepharoplast of the midstage spermatid of Andreaeobryum macrosporum has a four-layered multilayered structure (MLS) and two superposed, slightly staggered, and overlapping basal bodies. The spline is composed of 30 parallel microtubules at its maximum width. Subtending the spline anteriorly, the lamellar strip (LS) is 1.83 jim long and 0.92 fim wide and has an elongated, wedge-shape with a pointed right anterior tip. Viewing the blepharoplast dorsally from anterior to posterior, the anterior basal body (ABB), approximately 0.95 m in length, is situated over the right side of the MLS and is inserted at a level 0.42 m behind the spline's anterior apex. The posterior basal body (PBB), 2.75 m long, is positioned over the left side of the MLS and inserted 0.75 m behind the spline's anterior apex. The ABB is essentially parallel with the spline microtubules over its entire length, while the anterior portion of the PBB curves outward gradually and becomes parallel with the spline in its posterior region. The combination of features that distinguish the midstage spermatid of Andreaeobryum from other mosses are its wide spline, wedge-shaped lamellar strip, comparatively short basal bodies, small length of stagger between basal bodies, and the PBB that curves gradually outward from its anterior tip. The data available for Andreaea suggest that its midstage spermatid resembles that of Andreaeobryum, although reconstructions and additional micrographic data are needed for both Andreaea and Takakia before generalizations for the class Andreaeopsida can be made. 
10.2307/3242345|Thickened bands occur in the cells of the inner capsule wall layer of Notothylas levieri Schiffn. This constitutes the first report of such thickening bands in any species of the genus. A possible relationship between Anthocerotae and Hepaticae is postulated.
3244279|Tortula ruralis is a desiccation-tolerant bryophyte with a novel post-transcriptional gene response to drying and rehydration. To better understand the molecular basis of mRNA stability and selective mRNA translation upon rehydration, 149 T. ruralis cDNAs were selected and analyzed by sequence comparison for the presence of cis-acting elements associated with the formation of mRNA 3'-ends. The cDNAs analyzed were 140 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) isolated from desiccated gametophytes (AI304967-AI305106), a calmodulin-like domain protein kinase (U82087), the rehydrins Tr155 (U40818) and Tr288 (U21679), and six previously unreported ESTs isolated from desiccated gametophytes (AI665854-AI665859). The majority of cDNAs contained within the 3' untranslated region a consensus AAUAAA poly (A) signal and a highly conserved far-upstream element (FUE) that was similar to the plant consensus GU-rich sequence. The T. ruralis FUE consensus sequence is WUUUUGUUK (where W = A + U and K = G + U) which we have designated as the UUG-core motif. We have characterized five classes of cDNA's based upon the modular architecture of the poly (A) signal motif. Each cDNA class, with the exception of class V, contained the UUG-core motif. Class 1 (18% of the total) contained the conserved poly (A) signal sequence 0-30 nucleotides from the poly (A) site. Class II (28% of the total) contained a consensus hexanucleotide 0-30 nucleotides from the poly (A) site. Class III (2% of the total) contained an exact copy of a related poly (A) signal (AAUGAA) more than 30 nucleotides from the poly (A) site. Class IV (20% of the total) contained a consensus hexanucleotide more than 30 nucleotides from the poly (A) site. Class V (32% of the total) contained no known poly (A) signal. Analysis of the relative frequency of sequences between 1 and 60 nucleotides upstream from the poly (A) tail was determined for each cDNA sequence. Overall, the 60 nucleotide sequence was found to be U-rich and C/G poor with an A-rich region between nucleotides 10 and 30. Putative poly (A) signals are arrayed within the 3' untranslated region of T. ruralis cDNAs as predicted from the angiosperm model systems, including the absence of a conserved unifying cis-acting motif. To our knowledge, this is the first description of the molecular architecture of poly (A) signals within moss cDNAs.
10.2307/3241411|The neotropical genus Dendropogonella Britt. is reviewed. Descriptions, illustrations, and a distribution map are presented in addition to notes on nomenclature and phytogeography. Dendropogonella rufescens (Schimp.) Britt. occurs in Mexico, Guatemala, and Costa Rica, and is reported for the first time from Brazil and Venezuela. A report for St. Thomas Island (Virgin Islands) could not be substantiated. A lectotype (Mexico, C. Ehrenberg, s.n. BM) is designated.
10.2307/3244371|Scapania harae Amak. and S. karl-muelleri Grolle, which were previously described and recorded from the eastern Himalaya, are reported new to China. The perianths of S. karl-muelleri are reported for the first time. The features of the perianths indicate that S. karl-muelleri should belong to subgenus Plicaticalyx, not to subgenus Protoscapania, as described by Grolle in 1966.
10.2307/3241589|One hundred five species of bryophytes and 159 of lichens are reported from four areas of the Shenandoah National Park in Page and Madison Counties, Virginia.
41486738|Climacium is a small but morphologically distinctive genus ("tree mosses") with four species distributed primarily in the Northern Hemisphere. Climacium dendroides occurs around the globe at northern latitudes with disjunct populations in Mexico and New Zealand, whereas C. americanum and C. kindbergii are endemic to eastern North America and C. japonicum is limited to eastern Asia. Using nucleotide sequence data from five plastid loci plus the nuclear ribosomal ITS region we assessed evidence for monophyly of taxonomic species and tested the hypothesis that C. americanum and C. kindbergii from eastern North America have a sister group relationship with C. japonicum from eastern Asia. Climacium japonicum is resolved as sister to a clade containing the circumboreal G dendroides, americanum, and kindbergii. Climacium americanum and the sister lineage to C. dendroides. Geographically disjunct populations of C. dendroides in Asia, Mexico, the United States, and Canada vary at only a few polymorphic nucleotide sites across the three loci. The disjunctive New Zealand plants of C. dendroides are related to Asian accessions.
10.2307/3242397|Determinations of sperm dispersal distances were made in natural populations of Mnium ciliare (C.Muell.) Schimp. by measuring distances between fertilized females and the nearest male. As in other studies, distances were found to be restricted-the maximum was 5.3 cm. In addition, the potential for splash dispersal of male gametes was measured in the laboratory by subjecting splash cups to artificial rainfall. It was found that splashes travel relatively great distances, often over 10 cm. It is concluded that a potential for long distance dispersal of gametes exists and that field measurements using the nearest-male method may greatly underestimate the magnitude of sperm dispersal in mosses which produce splash cups.
43188692|We describe the morphology and ultrastructure of mature spores of four epiphytic pleurocarpous mosses from the Canary Islands laurel forest: Leucodon canariensis (Brid.) Schwgr., Cryptoleptodon longisetus (Mont.) Enroth., Neckera cephalonica Jur. & Unger., and N. intermedia Brid. The two Neckera species are strictly isosporic, while the capsules of L. canariensis contain viable spores of two classesuni-or multicellular, medium-sized (26-48 m) spores; and multicellular, large (50-94 m) spores. Also in C. longisetus, two different kinds of viable spores are produced in the capsulesunicellular, small spores (11-24 m) and medium-sized (26-35 m) spores. These observations suggest anisospory for both species. Intracapsular spore germination is observed in three species, but not in N. cephalonica. Spore wall stratification of the four species follows the typical pattern for mossesperine, exine and intine. The ornamentation pattern is uncharacteristic, with perin variously papillose. All spores are inaperturate. The cytoplasm shows abundant lipid-like inclusions and chloroplasts with well-developed thylakoids. The taxonomic significance of the spore characteristics is discussed.
10.2307/3241481|Pannaria pedicellata Hue, described from Campobello I., has proved to be identical with the later described Erioderma boreale Ahln. from Scandinavia, and is transferred to the genus Erioderma. Erioderma mollissimum (Samp.) Du Rietz was found as an admixture, extending its distribution area considerably.
41289818|Lichens are often used to monitor air quality and ecosystem health, and to define ecological gradients. Quantitative methods for estimating lichen population density and community composition are essential to effectively assess species and community response to ecological and environmental change. In this study we used two distance methods (point-centered quarter and quartered-neighbor methods), along with a compound estimator (Diggle's) to remove bias from non-random spatial patterns, to estimate Xanthoparmelia population density at a generic level on the summit of a high elevation plateau in southern Utah, USA. The sampling was extended to assess species composition and diversity. Population densities and relative species abundance were evaluated between meadow areas, sites, cardinal directions, and general substrate classes. We found that Xanthoparmelia populations varied widely in density and community composition across a relatively homogeneous landscape. Microhabitat, meadow-wide, and plateau-wide factors significantly influenced density and community structure in Xanthoparmelia. Our data reemphasize the inherent variability found in lichen communities and the importance of effective sampling for accurate ecological and biomonitoring studies. The two distance methods implemented here, moderated by Diggle's population density estimator, provide an efficient alternative to cover methods for estimating density. This study also indicates that these methods provide an effective approach for estimating population density and community structure in conjunction with ecological and bio-monitoring studies of some types of terricolous and saxicolous lichen communities.
10.2307/3241568|In the mosses Tortula princeps, Rhynchostegium sp., Platyhypnidium riparioides, Homalothecium sp., and Camptothecium sp. 13, 17, 16, 14, and 16 free amino acids were determined respectively both qualitatively and quantitatively.
10.2307/3242622| The contents of some lichen substances in R. nervulosa and R. subcomplanata were examined for each ramulus collected from different individual thalli. The contents of sekikaic and homosekikaic acids were measured in both species, and 4-O-methylnorhomosekikaic and salazinic acids in R. subcomplanata. The ratios in the contents of sekikaic acid derivatives in each ramulus were nearly constant for each species. In R. subcomplanata, there was a negative correlation between the content of depsidone, salazinic acid, and that of depsides, sekikaic acid derivatives. 
3244163|Phylogenetic analyses of nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences resolve four major clades within the peatmosses, and these lineages correspond to sections that have traditionally been recognized based on morphology. The sectional placement of most species is unambiguous, but four taxa combine the nuclear sequences of one section with the chloroplast sequences of another. A hypothesis of past reticulate evolution is favored over lineage sorting to account for this incongruence, because single genome analyses (nuclear vs. chloroplast) indicate that the species are derived within their respective sections. Sphagnum mendocinum, from the Pacific coast of North America, has the nuclear DNA of section Subsecunda, but the chloroplast DNA of section Cuspidata. Sphagnum cuculliforme, from Ecuador, has the nuclear sequences of section Subsecunda, but the chloroplast sequences of section Sphagnum. Sphagnum falcatulum and S. ehyalinum, both from temperate Southern Hemisphere, have the nuclear sequences of section Cuspidata, but the chloroplast sequences of section Subsecunda. While morphological evidence alone would not be sufficient to hypothesize past reticulations, at least three of the four species are atypical and ambiguous with regard to sectional placement. Sphagnum mendocinum is morphologically intermediate between the Subsecunda and Cuspidata, S. cuculliforme has previously been classified in its own monotypic section because of a unique combination of morphological characters, and S. ehyalinum is highly unusual because of a near absence of differentiated chlorophyllose and hyaline cells in the branch leaves. S. ehyalinum is described as new in this paper. Sphagnum falcatulum is morphologically typical of the section Cuspidata, to which it appears to belong based on nuclear DNA sequences. These inferences of reticulation between widely divergent taxa add to growing evidence of hybridization in the peatmosses.
10.2307/3241834|Heterodermia chondroidea W. Web. et Awasthi sp. nov. is endemic in the southern Rocky Mountains of Colorado.
10.2307/3244503|Heard Island is a small, isolated subantarctic island dominated by an ice covered volcano. Glaciers descend the volcano to the sea. Coastal ice free areas of tundra are present separated from each other by glaciers. Each of these areas can be considered as individual islands and Heard Island an archipelago. The distribution of 49 bryophyte taxa across five major and four minor ice-free areas was examined. Fifty percent of the bryophyte taxa exhibited widespread distribution, occurring on all ice-free islands examined. Absence of some conspicuous species from particular areas appeared to reflect situations where limited habitat variation has restricted the establishment of species. With present global warming, glacial retreat on Heard Island is rapid. Consequently, areas suitable for colonization by plants are increasing and previously separated ice free areas are now merging. This study provides baseline data against which future studies will be able to investigate possible changes in bryophyte species diversity and distribution on Heard Island.
40732299|Grimmia texicana, a new moss species from Texas and the American southwest, is described. The species is related to G. arizonae but its dense matted habit is distinctly different, readily separating it from the latter species, even in the field. Sporophytes were not found. Grimmia texicana propagates by young shoots, arising from the rhizoids.
10.2307/3243603|The manner of branch development and shape of vegetative reproductive organs were examined for 19 families, 101 genera, and 227 species in the suborders Leucodontineae and Neckerineae (Musci). Two types were recognized in the manner of branch development. They are distinguished from each other by the nature of dormant condition: One with swollen primordia (type A) and the other with buds (type S). Filamentous pseudoparaphyllia always accompanied type A primordia, while foliose pseudoparaphyllia were always with type S. The presence of scale-like leaves overarching buds was a good marker for recognizing the type S with ease. Each family and genus, with few exceptions, proved to be stable in the manner of branch development and shape of vegetative reproductive organs. Therefore, the two-character combination can be used as a new clue for the taxonomy of higher categories. Five genera, which are not closely related, have paraphyllia. The presence of paraphyllia is correlated with the type S of branch development, and has no taxonomic significance. The familial affinities of two genera are considered; Henicodium is a monotypic genus and classified in the Pterobryaceae, and Penzigiella in the Neckeraceae.
10.2307/3243202|Examination of southern hemisphere specimens of the lichen genera Melanelia, Neofuscelia and Paraparmelia has yielded new information on the chemistry, variability and distribution for a number of species. Two new combinations are made for species originally placed in the large collective genus Parmelia: Neofuscelia atrobarbatica (Elix) Essl. and N. neodelisei (Elix) Essl.
10.2307/3243072| The following novelties are recorded for Mexico: Cygniella sharpii, gen. nov. et sp. nov. (Ditrichaceae), Breedlovea chiapensis, gen. nov. et sp. nov. (Dicranaceae), Grimmia churchilliana, nom. nov. (Coscinodon arsenei Thr.), Hookeriopsis welchiana, sp. nov., H. bowersiana, sp. nov., Elharveya, nom. nov. (Harveya Crum), E. vesicularioides, comb. nov., Acroporium ulicinum (Mitt.), comb. nov. (Sematophyllum ulicinum Mitt.) and Pylaisiadelpha sharpii, sp. nov. 
10.2307/3241950|Fifteen species of mosses, belonging to eleven genera, mainly of the Pottiaceae, are reported for the first time from the state of Kuwait.
20110770|Three common moss species (Bryum argenteum, Ceratodon purpureus and Syntrichia ruralis) were grown from fragmented gametophyte leaves and stems in a set of laboratory experiments. Ceratodon growth was the most prolific of the three species on three artificial media and varied dependent on nutrient solution. Ceratodon growth was also the most prolific on natural soils of the Snake River Plain, Idaho. However, Bryum growth was nearly equal that of Ceratodon on some soils but the growth of the two varied by soil type. Syntrichia growth by cover on natural soils was low but consistent across the three soil types. Results of these experiments support the possibility of using these organisms in restoration of sagebrush/bunchgrass habitats.
10.2307/3241392| Twenty-five mosses and three liverworts are reported from semiarid woodlands near Ruiz, Mexico. Stereophyllum dicksonii is described as a new species resembling S. mexicanum Williams but differing in having an asymmetric capsule and pylaisioid leaf orientation. Fissidens obtusifolius var. kansanus Ren, & Card, and Garckea phascoides (Hook.) C. Mll. are reported as new to Mexico. 
10.2307/3243668| Pohlia atropurpurea (Wahlenb.) Lindb. f. and Pseudoleskeella papillosa (Lindb.). Kindb. are reported from the island of Newfoundland for the first time. Thirteen additional species, recently reported from Newfoundland without specimen citation, are here documented for the first time. New records of rare taxa are also provided, and three species are reported for the first time from the nearby islands of St-Pierre-et-Miquelon. The status of Cynodontium strumulosum C. Mll. & Kindb. is reexamined for Newfoundland. 
10.2307/3241703|Squamarina crassa (Huds.) Poelt, found on eroded slopes along the South Saskatchewan River north of Pennant, Saskatchewan, is reported for the first time from North America.
10.2307/3243994|Cephalozia pachycaulis Schust. sp. nov. is described. It occupies an anomalous position in that genus because: a) capsule walls are often largely 3-layered; b) the thickenings of their epidermal cells fail to show a clear two-phase development; c) the seta has up to 12 + 7-8 cell rows; d) the stem is soft, without formation of a hyalodermis. In stem anatomy it falls near Schofieldia, with which is also shared the capacity to form Frullania-type terminal lateral branches. Such branches also occur in C. bicuspidata et al. and in C. pleniceps. The wide leaves and soft texture and the free formation of unicellular gemmae at apices of short stiff branches, invested by mutually involute, malformed, concave leaves, are further suggestive of C. pleniceps. In spite of these seeming multiple affinities, C. pachycaulis has no obvious immediate relatives. Branching patterns and the obliquely oriented concave leaves with erect lobes and an open sinus suggest that affinities are perhaps closest to C. bicuspidata.
23321068|By most accounts, Plagiomnium cuspidatum is a typical bisexual, diploid species with n = 12 throughout its wide range. Beginning with Lowry's (1948) chromosome count of n = 6 for a collection from northern Florida, however, there have been sporadic reports of haploid or unisexual plants of this species. Unfortunately, none of these cases has been examined closely enough for sexuality, ploidy level, and possible morphological or other differences to be firmly established. Our studies of natural populations from Florida and Georgia reveal that there is a previously undescribed species that differs from P. cuspidatum in sexual condition, ploidy level, morphology, and ecology. This unisexual species has a chromosome number of n = 6, elliptic leaves with teeth that extend more than halfway down the margin, leaf cells mostly < 25 m, and a preference for circumneutral soils associated with limestone. Its closest relatives in sect. Plagiomnium are P. cuspidatum and P. acutum, but Nei's (1978) unbiased genetic identities of 0.669 and 0.705, respectively, show that it is strongly differentiated from both (Wyatt & Odrzykoski 1998). Independent evidence of the distinctiveness of these populations from the southeastern United States comes from phylogenetic reconstructions based on sequencing of chloroplast (rps4, rpL16) and nuclear (ITS2) gene regions by Harris (2008).
10.2307/3242185|Background and enhanced levels of elements in lichens are reviewed, and the Fe/Ti content ratio is shown to reflect the presence of trapped particulates. The following uptake and release mechanisms are critically examined: extracellular ion-exchange processes, extracellular electrolyte sorption, particulate trapping and subsequent solubilization, metal hydrolysis, intracellular uptake and release and the rewetting and 'resaturation respiration' phases. A brief survey of the nutritional requirements and nutritive value of lichens is also provided. Finally, it is concluded, after an examination of the mineral sources available to lichens and of mineral translocation and turnover rates in lichen thalli and mats, that lichen morphology and physiology favor their participation in mineral cycling.
10.2307/3242530|Crossidium seriatum Crum & Steere, previously known from a single station in Mexico, is present in Arizona.
10.2307/3242426|Ten species and one variety of mosses are reported as new state records for Wisconsin.
20110854|We sampled epiphytic and ground macrolichens in three subtropical forest types in north-central Florida (sand pine scrub, longleaf pine and hardwood bottoms). We detected 101 macrolichen taxa during community surveys in the three subtropical forest types. We used nonmeteric multidimensional scaling to determine factors associated with gradients in lichen community composition. In addition, we evaluated diversity of macrolichen species and species groups among the three vegetation types. Gradients in lichen community composition were closely associated with differences in vegetation structure (canopy cover, percent evergreen conifers) of the three forest vegetation types. Sand pine scrub forests supported the richest diversity and highest abundances of macrolichens, despite the young age of the stands. Sand pine scrub stands were young due to the frequency of stand-replacing fires. Alpha diversity averaged 26 macrolichen taxa per plot, ranging from 12 species in the youngest longleaf pine stand to 51 species in a mature sand pine scrub stand. Ground lichen cover ranged from 0-82% and, when present, formed a mat from 5-14 cm thick. Longleaf pine stands lacked ground lichen cover due to their dense grass understory and high fire frequency. These stands also had lower diversities and abundances of epiphytic macrolichens. The hardwood bottom vegetation type is often flooded with water and lacks both a consistent vascular plant and ground lichen cover. Hardwood bottoms experience fire infrequently and are intermediate in canopy lichen diversity. We used Indicator Species Analysis to determine if macrolichen species associated more closely with one or more of the three subtropical forest types studied. Lichen species indicative of sand pine scrub communities include Bulbothrix confoederata, Cladina evansii, C. subtenuis, Cladonia prostrata, C. ravenelii, Crocynia pyxinoides, Parmotrema sulfuratum and Usnea dimorpha. Dirinaria picta, Heterodermia albicans, Leptogium cyanescens, Ramalina americana and Ramalina willeyi were indicative of hardwood bottoms, and no lichen species were consistently indicative of longleaf pine communities.
10.2307/3242059| Thirty-nine mosses are reported from Mexico; 27 are new records. Those new to Mexico are: Acroporium pungens (Hedw.) Broth., Actinodontium standleyi Bartr., Amphidium cyathicarpum (Mont.) Broth., Anomobryum semiovatum (Brid.) Jaeg., Anomodon minor var. inaequifolius Bartr., Anomodon viticulosus (Hedw.) Hook. & Tayl., Aptychella proligera (Broth.) Herz., Barbula michiganensis Steere, B. reflexa (Brid.) Brid., Bartramia halleriana Hedw., Brachymenium consimile (Mitt.) Jaeg., Catagonium politum (Hook. f. & Wils.) Dus. ex Broth., Daltonia pulvinata Mitt., D. stenophylla Mitt., D. tenuifolia Mitt., Globulinella peruviana (Williams) Steere, Hookeriopsis incurva (Hornsch.) Broth., Hylocomium brevirostre (Brid.) B.S.G., Lepyrodon tomentosus (Hook.) Mitt., Meiothecium boryanum (C. Mll.) Mitt., Sphagnum sparsum Hampe, S. tenellum Ehrh. ex Hoffm., S. tenerum Sull. & Lesq., Taxiphyllum deplanatum (Bruch & Schimp. ex Sull.) Fleisch., Tayloria jamesonii (Tayl.) C. Mll., T. moritziana C. Mll. and Tristichium mirabile (C. Mll.) Herz. 
10.2307/3241835|Aspicilia quartzitica W. Web., from Colorado and Arizona, is described as new. Its relationships are with the A. gibbosa group, stirps Cinerascentes. It is the first Aspicilia species known to contain gyrophoric acid.
10.2307/3242133|The mosses reported in the literature from Oklahoma include 185 species and 4 varieties, totaling 189 taxa in this state checklist.
20110937|The genus Zygodon in the Iberian Peninsula is revised and six species are recognized: Zygodon catarinoi, Z. conoideus, Z. forsteri, Z. rupestris, Z. stirtonii and Z. viridissimus. A key, descriptions, illustrations and maps of each taxon are given. Zygodon stirtonii is reported for the Iberian Peninsula for the first time. Zygodon catarinoi and Z. bistratus are conspecific, and the former predates Z. bistratus by two days.
10.2307/3244502| The genus Breutelia is represented by 12 species in Southeast Asia: B. affinis (Hook.) Mitt., B. aristifolia Zanten, B. arundinifolia (Duby) Fleisch., B. crassicaulis (C. Mll.) Par., B. dicranacea (C. Mll.) Mitt., B. eugeniae ngstr., B. kinabaluensis Dix., B. longicapsularis Dix., B. microdonta (Mitt.) Broth., B. papuensis Virtanen, B. roemeri Fleisch., and B. yunnanensis Besch. Breutelia sclerodictya Card. is synonymized with B. microdonta, and B. setschwanica Broth, and B. subdeflexa Broth. with B. yunnanensis Besch. Sporophyte is described and reported for the first time for B. dicranacea and a neotype is proposed. A lectotype is selected for B. crassicaulis. The taxa are keyed and species are described and illustrated. Taxonomy, ecology, and distributions of species are discussed and distributions are mapped. 
3244729|A new monospecific genus, Benitotania, is described on the basis of B. elimbata H. Akiyama, T. Yamag, & M. Suleiman, collected in the northern part of Sabah, Malaysia. It appears to be most closely related to Adelothecium and Bryobrothera.
20110776|The formation of specialized vegetative propagules like brood cells, gemmae and bulbils often occurs in bryophytes, and the propagule's capacity to remain viable, even when desiccated, contribute to form soil propagule banks. With the aim to prove the presence of vegetative propagules in Splachnum ampullaceum Hedw., never found in European Splachnaceae, we studied their formation and further development in vitro. The effect of different concentrations of abscisic acid (ABA)--an endogenous growth regulator in mosses--on brood cell germination was also examined. Vegetative forms were induced on protonematal explants of S. ampullaceum cultured in vitro with two different mineral media. Brood cells and chloronematal bulbils occurred on protonematal cultures maintained on the same culture medium for long periods of time. Brood cells developed new chloronematal filaments when they were transferred to a new medium. We found that S. ampullaceum is able to form in vitro brood cells, characterized by spherical thick-walled cells with lipid droplets in their cytoplasm, and chloronematal bulbils that consist of a multicellular propagule with a verrucose surface. The effects of ABA on S. ampullaceum cultured in vitro indicate a direct relationship between its concentration on media and brood cell formation, which may presumably indicate that desiccation tolerance in S. ampullaceum is induced by ABA. Growth retardant effects were also shown on explants cultured in the presence of the aforementioned regulator. Vegetative propagules, brood cells and chloronematal bulbils, are present in S. ampullaceum and they are probably developed as a desiccation tolerance strategy and as a faster way to spread the colonization on the substratum. Such structures constitute an inconspicuous phase of the life cycle.
10.2307/3241150|Three rare Pohlias characteristically producing brood bodies in the leaf axils of sterile stems have been found in northern Michigan. Pohlia annotina var. loeskei has not been reported previously from the state, P. bulbifera has recorded but once, and P. proligera has been collected several times but only in a few localities.
10.2307/3241519| Chromatographic and spectrophotometric analyses of the plastid pigments of Lophocolea heterophylla reveal that both the gametophyte and the young sporophyte possess the following: chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, neoxanthin, violaxanthin, lutein, zeaxanthin, and -carotene. Although there are no qualitative differences, quantitatively the concentration of total chlorophylls is significantly greater in the sporophyte than in the gametophyte. 
10.2307/3241616|Toxic effects of both zinc and copper have been demonstrated in gemmalings of Marchantia polymorpha L. and in germinating spores of Funaria hygrometrica Hedw. Copper was found to be more toxic than zinc in both species. Copper levels above 8 ppm resulted in cessation of protonemal growth and inhibition of spore germination in Funaria, and, much reduced growth of gemmalings in Marchantia. Zinc had the greatest effects on Funaria spores, and showed relatively little effect on Marchantia gemmalings. Many distinct morphological changes were observed in both bryophytes in response to Cu and Zn. Results are discussed in terms of possible uptake processes and in terms of environmental considerations.
10.2307/3242956|Anomodon minor (Hedw.) Furnr. is reported from a disjunct locality in northeastern Alberta, Canada. Its occurrence in eastern North America, with disjunct populations in the southwestern United States and Mexico, is mapped.
25614881|Anomodon longifolius, a montane species known from Europe and eastern and southern Asia, was collected for the first time in the New World, from the Adirondack Mountains of New York. Also, Anomodon thraustus, an Asian species with known records from Mexico, has its range extended to the eastern United States. It is a very rare species in North America known only from a few specimens from New Jersey, New York and North Carolina that had been mistaken for depauperate forms of A. minor.
10.2307/3242163|In the temperate moss species Polytrichum commune Hedw. field studies demonstrated that growth segments which are formed by changing patterns of leaf morphology are repeated annually. Evidence for exceedingly small-scale microhahitat variability in available water was found in the scattered distribution of desiccated stems in space and time, throughout the population under study. Moss turfs were extremely sensitive to disturbance which apparently altered the water-regulating capacity of the normally unbroken moss canopy. Mortality rates reported were undoubtedly elevated due to disturbance of the moss canopy during the course of this investigation.
10.2307/3242423|Eleven families, 16 genera and 29 species of Hepaticae and Anthocerotae are reported for Nebraska. Thirteen new additions are reported for the Nebraska flora.
20110773|Caloplaca peregrina Samp., a species described from Portugal in 1917, and only known from the type localities, is synonymized with Caloplaca pellodella (Nyl.) Hasse.
20110835|Bucklandiella nivalis is described as a new species from two high-alpine localities in the Hohe Tauern in the Eastern Alps of Austria. The species is known only in the sterile state but it produces abundant axillary gemmae which have hitherto only been recorded from the Japanese B. vulcanicola. Both species are closely related but B. nivalis differs from B. vulcanicola in having uniseriate gemmae composed of 3-5(-7), mostly non-septate cells (vs. globular gemmae forming 4-celled clusters); stronger costae, costae, usually 80-100 m wide near the base (vs. weaker costae, 45-75 m wide); epilose leaves (vs. piliferous leaves, with hairpoints 0.3-0.7 mm long); (1-)2(-3)-stratose leaf margins (vs. unistratose margins with occasional bistratose spots); often variously bistratose laminal cells near the apex (vs. entirely unistratose laminal cells throughout). A new section, Bucklandiella sect. Gemmiferae, is established to accommodate B. nivalis and B. vulcanicola.
10.2307/3241914|The new species Schistidium holmenianum is described and illustrated. Its main distinguishing characters are its large size, its intense black color and its fen habitat. It is widely distributed in Arctic regions of North America from Alaska to East Greenland.
20061088|Five chloroplast coding and non-coding regions, one mitochondrial gene and its associated intron, and part of one nuclear ribosomal gene were sequenced, giving a total included aligned length of 7,845 bp. Samples from six collections, representing five species of Jensenia from South America, Malaysia, and New Zealand, four collections belonging to three species of Pallavicinia and one collection of Podomitrium phyllanthus comprised the ingroup, which was rooted on Symphyogyna marginata. Phylogenetic analysis under the maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood criteria support Jensenia as monophyletic. Within Jensenia, two monophyletic clades are resolved, one comprising the four Latin American collections and the other, the Malayasian and New Zealand species; however, this is based on only 16 parsimony informative characters. The lack of informative characters within Jensenia suggests that the divergence among taxa is relatively recent, rather than Gondwanan, as has been hypothesized based on geographical distribution. A corollary of this is that the present day distribution of Jensenia is likely the product of dispersal rather than vicariance.
10.2307/3242948|Bryophytes became established about three months after a high intensity slash burn after logging a high quality eucalypt/rainforest site in the Picton River region of southeastern Tasmania. Some successional change among species occurred, but the biomass of the bryophytes remained fairly constant at 140-180 g m
10.2307/3243836|Syrrhopodon (Hyalolimbatae) pulcher is described as a new species from six specimens collected in Seram and Sulawesi.
10.2307/3243148|Cygnicollum immersum Fife & Magill, gen. & sp. nov., is described and illustrated. The ecology of the new taxon and its relationship within Funariaceae are also discussed.
10.2307/3241248|Twenty species of lichens and the genera Haematomma and Sphaerophorus are reported for the first time from the state of Idaho.
10.2307/3243946|Measurements of lichen biomass and nitrogenase activity were used to estimate the annual nitrogen fixation by lichens in the watershed of nitrogen-limited Brooks Lake, Alaska. These measurements, when combined with the areal extent of different habitats as determined from satellite photos and conversion ratios relating short-term acetylene reduction measurements to long-term nitrogen fixation rates, produced a best estimate for nitrogen fixed by lichens of 0.1 kg N ha
10.2307/3242630|Serpotortella madagassa Dix. is the type of the genus Serpotortella Dix.
10.2307/3243091|Frullania tamarisci (L.) Dum. has been recognized to comprise four rather distinct, geographically separated subspecies, namely, F. tamarisci ssp. tamarisci, F. tamarisci ssp. moniliata (Reinw., Blume & Nees) Kamim., F. tamarisci ssp. asagrayana (Mont.) Hatt. and F. tamarisci ssp. nisquallensis (Sull.) Hatt. Despite some character overlap, these infraspecific taxa can be distinguished from each other, morphologically. Whether their morphological discontinuities are reflections of species level genetic divergence or are environmentally induced subspecific modifications has, however, never been tested. To evaluate the evolutionary relationships among the subspecies, both vegetative and reproductive characters were studied in herbarium specimens, and the stability of the less variable characters were evaluated by placing the taxa in controlled, parallel growing conditions. Structural differences in both control and experimental groups were recorded in scanning electron micrographs. Variations in phosphoglucoisomerase (PGI) zymograms as well as flavonoid and terpenoid profiles were also determined. Both morphological and biochemical data sets showed that taxon distinctions are genetically fixed and that genetic distance is greater than that expected for subspecific categories. In addition to the morphological markers used by earlier authors, we found that the form of the first branch underleaf and spore wall architecture are different for each taxon. Unique flavonoid profiles and a considerable level of terpenoid and PGI dissimilarity further suggest substantial intrinsic divergence. We, therefore, propose that the taxa be recognized as discrete species.
3244641|Abundant canopy lichen communities characterize wet-temperate rainforests on the windward slopes of interior mountain ranges in north-central British Columbia, Canada. Historically, these forests have regenerated through gap-dynamics; however, our knowledge of lichen colonization within gaps is limited. We have now compared lichen biomass on regenerating trees in naturally occurring 1-3 ha gap-disturbances (these gaps presumed to have originated from insect out-breaks in the late 1800's) with those on regenerating trees of similar age growing in the understory of the surrounding old growth forest. Only small differences were seen in total lichen biomass on regenerating trees between the two settings, however, analysis of the individual lichen groups ( Alectoria, Bryoria, Foliose, and Cyanolichen) revealed striking differences. The Bryoria group was 35% more abundant on gap trees (632 g/tree) and was distributed vertically through a larger proportion of the tree crown. The Cyanolichen functional group was largely absent from gap trees, despite high levels of biomass loading (1,332 kg/ha) in the surrounding old-growth stand. Alectoria and Foliose functional groups did not differ significantly in biomass or distribution between regenerating trees of the two types. Tree size positively affected lichen loading. Total lichen biomass was 38% greater on the larger size class (31-44 cm dbh) regenerating trees, with the Alectoria functional group alone having 45% greater biomass on larger trees. Presence or absence of leaves on branch substrate had no effect on lichen loading. Stand-level projections indicate that the old growth forest had 19% more arboreal lichen biomass (2,684 kg/ha) and contained greater lichen species diversity than did the "second-growth" regenerating forest patches. The low cyanolichen biomass in naturally occurring gap openings poses concern for the proposed utility of "new-forestry" type harvesting practices to retain canopy biodiversity using current harvest rotation intervals.
20485787|Pohlia flexuosa is reported from a single California site as new for the North American moss flora. This species is otherwise found in central and eastern Asia, where it is one of the most common gemmiferous Pohlia species, and in western Europe. A key is provided for the six gemmiferous species of Pohlia currently known from California.
20485808|Indusiella, previously known from North America (Alaska), central Asia and North Africa (Chad), is reported for the first time for South America. A new species, Indusiella stellata, is described based on one specimen collected from Potos Department in Bolivia. In addition, I. thianschanica is reported for the first time from Argentina and Bolivia. The new taxon is distinguished from I. thianschanica by its immersed and gymnostomous capsule, leaf costa without dorsal stereids and 8-20 guide cells in (2-)3-4 layers in the basal leaf region, and stems without a central strand. Both species are described and illustrated. The description of Indusiella is revaluated and a key to the species of the genus is provided.
10.2307/3240982|Gemmae of Marchantia polymorpha were irradiated with Co
3244583|Pine-lichen woodlands in north-central British Columbia show a long period of successional development where reindeer lichens (Cladina spp.) dominate plant cover at the forest floor surface. However, in mid- to late-successional stands lichen cover is replaced in a mosiac of surface microsites by feather moss mats (largely Pleurozium schreberi), with moss mats often burying lichen mats that previously had occupied these microsites. We have compared moss and lichen dominated microsites at this stage of stand development, looking at the influence of canopy structural variables and development of forest floor plant communities on microsite expression. Microsites with high feather moss mat cover had greater canopy leaf area index values, compared to microsites where lichen cover predominated. Leaf area index values were highly correlated with stand level structural variables, including basal area, total volume, and biomass of the dominant canopy tree species Pinus contorta. Changes in stand architecture were further associated with the accumulation of litter and organic matter at the forest floor surface. These factors suggest that the manipulation of stand structure in managed forests, for instance through partialcut harvesting, may delay successional changes and promote continued lichen growth in these forest types. This is an important consideration in the management of pine-stands in northern B.C., where lichen mats provide significant forage values for caribou populations.
10.2307/3241354|Clinal variation in the usnic acid content of thalli of Cladonia subtenuis along determined light gradients was demonstrated spectrophotometrically. Integrated measurements of light incidence were made using ozalid paper light sensors. The percentage of usnic acid in the dry podetia is directly related to the percentage of full sunlight in the microhabitat of the plants. Extreme values ranged from 0.13% in plants from a site of low light intensity (3% full sunlight) to 2.82% in plants from a relatively open site (51% full sunlight). The yellowish color in the podetia of sun populations was not markedly altered by extraction of the usnic acid.
10.2307/3244405|Leucochrysa pavida is a green lacewing which incorporates lichen fragments into its larval debris packets and pupal cocoons. Since only minute lichen fragments are harvested, identification of lichens utilized in debris packet and pupal cocoon construction is difficult using morphological characteristics. A comparison of the chemical profiles of epiphytic, corticolous lichens at Tower Rock Recreation Area in Hardin Country, Illinois, with lichen substances identified by thin-layer chromatographic analysis of debris packet and pupal cocoon extracts revealed that L. pavida larvae selectively harvest and use lichen thallus fragments from Lecanora strobilina, Lepraria sp. #1, and Myelochroa aurulenta in the construction of debris packets and pupal cocoons.
10.2307/3241730|Leptodon smithii (Hedw.) Web. & Mohr has been discovered for the first time in North America on calcareous schists in the eastern foothills of the Colorado Rocky Mountains. It is most easily distinguished from other North American genera in the Neckeraceae by stems and branches which are circinately inrolled when dry. Leptodon smithii exhibits a typical relictual Tertiary distribution pattern. A description and distribution map of the species are given.
10.2307/3241675| The following nomenclatural novelties are presented: Acaulon muticum var. rufescens (Jaeg.) stat. nov.; Barbula acuta var. bescherellei (Sauerb. ex Jaeg. & Sauerb.) comb. nov. and var. icmadophila (Schimp. ex C. Mll.) comb. nov., B. unguiculata f. propagulosa f. nov.; Desmatodon heimii var. arctica (Lindb.) comb. nov.; Dicranella ohioensis (Robins.) comb. nov.; Eurhynchium macroneuron (Grout) comb. nov.; Grimmia apocarpa var. obscuriviridis nom. nov.; Gymnostomum recurvirostrum var. latifolium (Zett.) Flow. ex Crum comb. nov.; Haplocladium praelongum (Schimp. ex Besch.) comb. nov.; Homalia trichomanoides f. gracilis (James ex Peck) comb. nov.; Philonotis fontana var. americana (Dism.) Flow. ex Crum comb. nov. and f. flowersii nom. et stat. nov.; Platydictya minutissima (Sull. & Lesq. ex Sull.) comb. nov.; Pohlia schleicheri nom. nov.; Pylaisiella polyantha f. subdenticulata (Schimp. ex B.S.G.) stat. nov.; Scleropodium tourettei var. colpophyllum (Sull.) Lawt. ex Crum comb. nov.; Stokesiella praelonga var. californica (Grout) comb. nov. and var. stokesii (Turn.) comb. nov.; Tetraplodon mnioides var. urceolatus (Hedw.) comb. nov.; Trichostomum mollissimum (Broth. ex Bartr.) comb. nov. Grimmia brevirostris Williams and Pottia texana Wareh. should be re-instated in the checklist of North American mosses, and Bryum roellii Phil. is considered preferable to B. angustirete Kindb., a name of uncertain application. 
10.2307/3240515|An index is given to 467 previously unlisted or incorrectly listed names of subgeneric taxa proposed for the lichens by Jatta and others. A failure by later authors to recognize the existence of these names has led to the establishment of many subgeneric names which were superfluous or otherwise illegitimate when published.
10.2307/3241092|Six new species are described - five mosses, Dicranum peruvianum, Campylopus wurdackii, Didymodon subtriquetrus, Anomobryum worthleyi, and Macromitrium drewii, and one hepatic, Syzygiella colombiana. A key is given for the species of Syzygiella sect. Anomalae.
10.2307/3241089|In a stand of hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) on a north-facing bluff in the eastern piedmont of North Carolina, 64 species of mosses were collected on the bluff proper. Five species (Tetraphis pellucida, Hypnum pallescens, Brotherella tenuirostris, Hookeria acutifolia, and Myurella sibirica) are disjunctive from the Appalachian Mountains to the west, and four (Mnium hornum, Dicranum montanum, Taxiphyllum taxirameum, and Thamnobryum alleghaniense) are essentially montane with few known stations in the piedmont or coastal plain. These distributional patterns add to the evidence that this hemlock stand is a natural relic of a former hemlock-hardwood forest which occupied the area during early postglacial times.
10.2307/3240832|Parmelia perforata and P. rigida are morphologically indistinguishable species differing in their medullary constituents. Parmelia perforata contains norstictic and protolichesterinic acids as constant components, while P. rigida contains alectoronic acid as a constant component and norstictic acid as a common accessory substance. In addition, both species contain atranorin as a constant component of the cortex.
10.2307/3242490| Lichens collected in the Escuela de Agronoma Santa Catalina, Buenos Aires Province, are enumerated. The genera Normandina and Pyxine are reported for the Province for the first time. Dimerella bacillifera is added to the known flora of Argentina. 
41486748|A taxonomic treatment based on field studies, examination of herbarium collections, and previously published molecular data is provided for the North American species of the Sphagnum subsecundum complex. Sphagnum platyphyllum, S. contortum, S. lescurii, and S. subsecundum are gametophytically haploid. Sphagnum missouricum and S. carolinianum are gametophytically allodiploid. A single allodiploid population of S. platyphyllum and a homoploid (haploid) hybrid between S. contortum and S. subscundum, previously documented genetically, are described and illustrated (but neither distinguished taxonomically). Epitypes are designated from (haploid) S. lescurii and (allodiploid) S. missouricum because the ploidal level of the original type material cannot be determined unambiguously. In North America, S. subsecundum is restricted to the eastern part of the continent, as western plants named this species are not conspecific. North American plants named S. inundatum are considered synonymous with either S. lescurii (when haploid) or S. missouricum (when diploid).
10.2307/3240939|An inventory of the epiphytic vegetation of Wawa, Ontario, was made at 64 sites, and 112 species (73 lichens, 39 bryophytes) were recorded. The distribution of sulfur dioxide from an iron-sintering plant there, as well as the pH and sulfate content of surface water, soil, and vegetation, were determined. The fallout pattern of sulfur dioxide and the chemical indices (pH and SO
40732284|We investigated the response of the bryoid layer, bryophyte and lichen communities on the soil surface, three years after fuel reduction treatment (logging and burning) in the central Blue Mountains of eastern Oregon. Both treatment and control areas had been decimated by spruce budworm and drought before the fuel reduction treatments. Treatments reduced overstory and understory woody vegetation, litter, and coarse woody debris and disturbed the soil surface. In the untreated stands minor local disturbances had created bare mineral soil over about 1% of the ground area, about half of that was from burrowing rodents. Fuel reduction treatments disturbed an additional 23% of the ground area, beyond the 1% disturbed in untreated sites. Over half of the recently disturbed treatment areas had been colonized by pioneering short mosses. Bare soil from rodent disturbances covered about 10 times more area in treated sites than in untreated sites, increasing from 0.4% to 5.5% cover. The bryoid layer responded to the treatments by changes in species composition, rather than species richness. Treated areas had more cover of small acrocarpous pioneer bryophytes (i.e., Funaria hygrometrica, Ceratodon purpureus, and especially Bryum caespitkium), whereas cover of larger pleurocarps, such as Brachythecium and Rhytidiadelphus was reduced by soil disturbance. We infer that pioneer bryophytes perform a valuable ecosystem service in these dry forests by rapidly colonizing and stabilizing the soil surface, reducing its vulnerability to erosion by wind and water.
10.2307/3242480|The name Drepanocladus exannulatus fo. pseudotrichophyllus F.J.Herm., invalidly published in 1976, is validated here.
20061069|The effects of fragmentation of the sub-humid low-boreal forest in agro environments on bryophyte and lichen diversity were analyzed on 44 woodlots in three regions of northern Alberta, Canada. Woodlots were selected to cover a wide variety of shapes and sizes in each area. Several microclimatic variables, which included temperature at three different heights above the forest floor, relative humidity, and the amount of light penetration were measured in five m diameter circular sample plots along transects that covered the length and the width of each fragment. The number of microhabitats that included living trees with creviced and smooth bark, standing dead, different decay classes of downed woody debris, soil and rock were tabulated at each sample plot. Bryophyte and lichen presence was noted for all microhabitats found within each plot. There was a trend of decreasing temperature and light intensity and increasing humidity up to 15 m from the edge of the fragments. A multiple regression analysis revealed that the distance from edge and the habitat heterogeneity were the most important variables affecting bryophyte and lichen species richness. Further analysis indicated that edge effects were significant for bryophytes, but not for lichens. The size and shape of fragments had a significant effect on habitat heterogeneity, and bryophyte and lichen diversity. Although there was a distinction between the floras in each region, the effects of fragment size and habitat heterogeneity were similar. An indicator species analysis selected several indicators of large, medium, and small fragments that were also indicators of habitat heterogeneity and species richness. The presence or absence of several indicator species is used to produce performance benchmarks for habitat heterogeneity and species richness. The use of indicator species offers an inexpensive and relatively easy method to evaluate edge effects and habitat heterogeneity on bryophyte and lichen diversity in woodlots.
10.2307/3241637|Following recent investigations the mosses of northern Ellesmere Island are now more completely studied than those of any other area of comparable size in the Canadian Arctic. A detailed non-quantitative analysis differentiates 18 moss communities. Northern Ellesmere has a surprisingly diverse moss flora for such a high arctic region. Almost half of its 151 moss species are common or widespread there, the remainder rare. There appears to be little correlation between fertility and commonness, and habitat specificity restricts only a few species. Northern Ellesmere has a moss flora surprisingly different from that of nearby Peary Land, North Greenland. The Queen Elizabeth Islands are subdivided into nine regions for phytogeographic studies, and the geographical distributions of the 233 moss species found in the Canadian High Arctic are documented. The results indicate that detailed studies of the distribution patterns of mosses, when combined with similar studies on vascular plants, provide data vital to a complete understanding of the glacial history of the Canadian High Arctic. Botanical (especially bryological) evidence, including endemic taxa, temperate or low arctic disjuncts, the high arctic element, overall floristic diversity, and the low probability of long distance dispersal as an alternative, now strongly supports the hypothesis that parts of northern Ellesmere Island were ice-free refugia at least during the Wisconsin Glaciation.
10.2307/3244051|Graphis saxorum is described as new from California and Baja California. It is characterized by its thick, K+ red, thallus; exciple open to closed at the bottom, non-amyloid ascospores, and saxicolous habitat.
10.2307/3241915|Sixty-eight species of mosses and one hepatic are documented as new to the known flora of Colorado, based chiefly upon the writer's recent collections. Data for two stations for the extremely rare Cynodontium gracilescens (Web. & Mohr) Schimp. are included. A single new name, Drepanocladus exannulatus fo. pseudotrichophyllus, F. J. Herm., is proposed.
3244586|Newly designed algal-specific primers were used to amplify the ribosomal ITS region from 25 photobiont specimens from five lichenized fungi of the family Physciaceae (Lecanorales), Anaptychia ciliaris, Phaeophyscia orbicularis, Physcia caesia, P. tenella, and Physconia distorta. The obtained DNA sequences were then phylogenetically analyzed using parsimony jackknifing. The analyses indicated that the mycobionts associated with two photobiont species: Trebouxia impressa was found with all mycobionts, except Anaptychia ciliaris, which instead was associated with Trebouxia arboricola. In the jackknife tree, all Trebouxia arboricola sequences formed a monophyletic group with a high jackknife support. The Trebouxia impressa sequences also formed a well supported group, which in turn had some internal structure. The photobiont species is reported for the first time for Anaptychia ciliaris, Physcia caesia, and P. tenella. A phylogenetic tree for the photobiont, T. impressa, was compared to a phytogeny of the corresponding mycobionts, also based on ITS sequences. A combined analysis of the data from the photobiont and the data from the mycobiont was also performed. Several similarities were found in the tree topologies. The general similarity of the mycobiont and photobiont trees may indicate a coevolutionary history.
25614870|Ethnobryological notes on the liverwort Targionia hypophylla to cure scabies, itches and other skin diseases by the Irula tribes and the leafy liverwort Frullania ericoides for head lice (Pediculus humanus) and nourishment of hair by the Mudugar tribes of Attappady, Western Ghats, Kerala are reported for the first time along with a note on the little-known medicinal bryophyte Bryum bicolor mentioned in Rheede's Hortus Malabaricus published in the 17th century.
10.2307/3243125|Diploicia canescens (Dicks.)Mass. has been collected from southern California. Earlier collections by Hasse labeled Pyxine sorediata have now been determined to be Diploicia canescens.
10.2307/3241640| The alpine moss flora of Mexico, known from the mountains Nevado de Toluca, Popocatpetl, Iztacchuatl, La Malinche, and Cerro Potos, includes 84 species and varieties. On the basis of their total distribution, these are divided into five groups: the Northern, Meso-American, Southern, Wideranging, and Endemic Elements. In general, all these taxa are supposed to have migrated to Mexico along the main mountain chains of North, Central, and South America in Pliocene-Pleistocene times. Two floristic units are recognized, one constituted by the first four mountains named above, and the other, by Cerro Potos alone. 
10.2307/3242146|Syrrhopodon annotinus Reese & Griffin and S. ligulatus Mont. are reported for the first time from Venezuela; new distributional records within Venezuela are reported for Syrrhopodon circinatus (Brid.) Mitt., S. prolifer Schwaegr. var. cincinnatus (Hampe) Reese, S. p. var. prolifer, S. p. var. tenuifolius (Sull.) Reese, and Leucoloma tortellum (Mitt.) Jaeg.
10.2307/3240801|Thirty-one nomenclatural alterations are proposed in connection with a revision of Grout's 1940 checklist of North American mosses.
20061087|Genetic structure and diversity were studied in the endangered peatmoss Sphagnum angermanicum Melin to assess its conservation status. In total, 128 shoots from eleven populations throughout its Swedish distribution were analyzed. Among these shoots 28 haplotypes were identified by 19 ISSR loci. The most common haplotype (50% of the sampled shoots) occurred in all populations. The level of gene diversity over loci was intermediate compared to records from most other bryophytes. There was no genetic isolation between the populations and most of the genetic variation was found within populations. This implies either that the populations have originated from only a few common individuals or a high gene flow between populations. A relict population model is suggested to explain the observed pattern. Just after the last glaciation, S. angermanicum may have expanded its range when suitable habitat became available after the glacial ice retreated. Since then, habitats have vanished or fragmented and today only a few relict populations exist. This dioicous species has only once been reported with sporophytes in Scandinavia in modern time, but according to the genetic data, both the low level of linkage among loci and the estimated rate of recombination show evidence of sexual reproduction. However, reproduction may have been more frequent in the past. Based on the current knowledge of the species habitat requirements, life history, and the small population sizes, we conclude that the species will have an uncertain future in Sweden.
10.2307/3240745|The growth rates of several corticolous lichens - particularly Parmelia sulcata, P. caperata, and Lecanora caesiorubella - were determined by a tracing method on acetate sheets. Rates similar to those determined by other workers for related lichens were detected. Climate was found to have a strong effect on the annual growth rates.
10.2307/3244017|Protonemal growth and percent of spore germination of Polytrichum commune were used to assess toxicities of the divalent ions of three heavy metals-Cu, Cd, and Zn-evaluated singly and in two- and three-way combinations of equal weight. In heavy metal rankings of toxicity and in sensitivity of response, both parameters yielded comparable results. Synergistic toxic responses were generated by the Cu:Cd and Cd:Zn combinations for both parameters. The Cu:Cd:Zn response was synergistic for spore germination and additive to slightly synergistic for protonemal growth. For Cu:Zn a definite antagonistic response was obtained with spore germination, while an additive to slightly antagonistic response was generated with protonemal growth. Despite the comparability of the results obtained with both parameters, percent of spore germination is preferable for routine use as the data are generated rapidly and the response is easily scored.
10.2307/3242149| Astomiopsis saint-pierrei Thr. ex Buck and Bryomanginia saint-pierrei Thr. are homotypic. Melophyllum radiculosum Herz. is a synonym. Bryomanginia and Melophyllum are synonymous with Astomiopsis. The correct name for the single species involved is Astomiopsis radiculosa (Herz.) Buck & Zander, comb. nov. 
10.2307/3241919| New records include Molendoa sendtneriana (B.S.G.) Limpr. from Mexico and Guatemala and Barbula inaequalifolia Tayl. and Gymnostomum valerianum (Bartr.) Zander from Mexico. A rasp-leaved expression of Anoectangium aestivum (Hedw.) Mitt, is present in Mexico and the West Indies. Bryoerythrophyllum recurvirostrum var. aeneum is a new status for Trichostomum aeneum C. Muell. Neocardotia Thr. & Bartr. is a synonym of Rhexophyllum Herz. Naked, lateral archegonia are present on stems of Globulinella peruviana (Williams) Steere and other species. 
10.2307/3240744|Dicranum fuscescens f. pallidiseta Bailey is so distinct morphological and ecologically that it is raised to the rank of species. It is a western North American endemic with a chromosome number of n = 12 in the spore mother cells. Its relationship to D. fuscescens is discussed.
10.2307/3241099|Metaneckera Steere is proposed as a nomen novum for Neckeradelphus Steere, which is antedated by Neckeradelphus Laz.
10.2307/3243973|Chiloscyphus sect. Leucophylli Engel is described as new for Australasian plants that have domelike tuberculae, knotlike trigones, and underleaves distinctly connate on both sides. Two heterotypic names within sect. Leucophylli that utilize the epithet "leucophylla" are discussed. Chiloscyphus leucophyllus (Hook. f. & Tayl.) Engel & Schust. is based on an Auckland Island type and is accepted. Lophocolea leucophylla G. L. & N. is based on a Tasmanian plant and is invalid. Chiloscyphus mittenianus (Col.) Engel, comb. nov. also belongs to the section.
20485755|The relationship between lichen species richness and forest age was explored in southwestern Nova Scotia by examining the epiphytic lichens in 51 conifer-dominated forest stands with no evidence of harvesting. The stand ages were determined by tree cores and ranged from 52 to 292 years. One hundred and thirty-five lichen species in 61 genera were identified, of which 25 species are new records for Nova Scotia, and two appear to be species new to science. Using the Nova Scotia Department of Natural Resources' age thresholds, 12 of the 135 lichen species were found exclusively in "early old-growth" and 16 were found only in "advanced old-growth" forest stands. These forests have a diverse lichen flora including green-alga containing macrolichens, a spectrum of crustose taxa and eight genera and 21 species of cyanolichens, the latter being found mainly on deciduous trees. Data on the identified lichen species were used, with the help of two existing indices of ecological continuity, to calculate a value for each of the 51 forest stands assessed. The values should represent an age category (i.e., the higher the value the older the forest stand). The values calculated, however, using either of these indices, were not high enough to identify any of the stands as "old-growth." In contrast, the stand ages determined using tree cores, showed that some stands were old enough to be defined as "old-growth." The failure of index 1 to identify any stands as old-growth was likely due to regional ecological variations, suggesting that a new suite of lichens needs to be developed for southwestern Nova Scotia. The problems with index 2, which used calicioid lichens as a predictor of old-growth, appeared to be that insufficient data were collected on these easily overlooked taxa.
10.2307/3242356|Fifty-four species of lichens are reported from three archaeological sites from coastal lowlands on Somerset Island. Most are new to this island. The uniqueness of archaeological sites in lichen studies is emphasized.
10.2307/3243826|Species-area data were used to compare saxicolous lichen communities differing in species richness and level of disturbance. Three communities in Maryland and Virginia were chosen for study based on previous investigations indicating variations in species number caused by differences in background pollution. Additional data from previously published studies done in central Chile and New Zealand were analyzed for comparison. Regressions of the species-area relationship were determined using three frequently-used models: 1) the power function model, which assumes an equilibrium between immigration and extinction of species on islands; 2) the exponential model, which assumes increases in habitat diversity with area; and 3) the untransformed model, which makes no assumptions about habitat diversity or population processes. Significant regressions were obtained for all data sets and all three models. Slopes of the logS/logA regressions were not significantly different for the six relatively undisturbed communities, this despite differences in species richness and location of these communities. Significant differences among slopes were observed when the species-area data of the disturbed community were included in the analysis, indicating an alteration of community processes by pollution. It is suggested that the species-area curve provides a useful method for assessing pollution damage to lichen communities.
3244587|Th. Fries, the eldest son of the mycologist Elias Fries, developed an early interest in lichens. He had full insight in the earlier research of lichens, particularly in Scandinavia, but at the same time developed new generic concepts in accordance with the Italian-German school (Massalongo and his followers). In this he was heavily critized by Nylander. Th. Fries may also be regarded as the father of Arctic lichenology, and he participated in several expeditions to the region (Finnmark, Spitsbergen, Greenland). His thoroughness, critical sense, and sound taxonomic judgements in the traditional morpho-floristic way combined with newer approaches, that of ascomata (particularly spore) anatomy, renewed lichenology and laid the foundation for its modern development.
10.2307/3241980|The chromosome number of Callicostella depressa (Hedw.) Jaeg. was determined to be n = 11 from living material collected in the tropical rain forest near El Verde, in the Luquillo Mountains at the east end of Puerto Rico.
10.2307/3242346|The New World distribution of Timmia austriaca Hedw. is primarily western North American, but there are locations eastward across the Arctic to Greenland and disjunct occurrences along the southern edge of its range from California to eastern Canada. The species is newly reported for New Brunswick. Its presence in northern Vermont, well to the south of its current range in eastern North America, during late glacial time is documented by fossil material. Periglacial survival (but upon glaciated terrain) and northward migration to suitable habitats is suggested to explain the present restricted distribution of the species in eastern North America.
10.2307/3244232| Cololejeunea linopteriodes H. Rob. is described in detail with special reference to its exceptional flattened stem structure and reduced lobule, which seem to be adaptations to the growth form of a closely appressed epiphyll. Differences from the similar C. sigmoidea Ast & Tixier and other related species are discussed. /// Cololejeunea linopteroides H. Rob. se describe detalladamente, con especial referencia a caractersticas como el lbulo reducido y la estructura plana del tallo, las cuales parecen constituir adaptaciones a su tipo de crecimiento como epfilos muy adheridos al sustrato. Se discute las diferencias con C. sigmoidea Ast & Tixier y otras especies muy relacionadas. 
25614876|A lichenicolous fungus, Stigmidium epistigmellum (Nyl. ex Vouaux) Kocourk. & K. Knudsen, is re-described from maritime Caloplaca species from the western coast of North America and compared with other Stigmidium species on Caloplaca hosts.
20061125|Imbribryum was previously accidentally invalidly published and is validly published here.
10.2307/3241423|Distributional data are presented for 23 species of mosses that are either of rare or infrequent occurrence in Pennsylvania. Fissidens bushii, F. exilis, and Orthotrichum sordidum are reported for the first time from the state.
10.2307/3240896|The life history of Lyellia crispa is similar to that of Pogonatum and Oligotrichum. There are two types of paraphyses among the antheridia, the simple uniseriate kind and those with multiseriate heads. The second type may represent a modified, sterile, simplified antheridium. The female plants are anacrogynous. Sometimes a venter has two eggs. The peristome is absent. The archesporial layer in the initial stages extends right up to the top. The columella is not a solid column but has a distinct air space system and the cells are loosely packed. Stomata are present in the wall of the apophysis. The capsule is somewhat compressed with one side convex and the other side concave. The studies support the notion that the family Polytrichaceae is archaic and that the sex organs are homologous.
41486724|The present contribution is part of an extensive revision of Pannariaceae in southern South Americ Nothofagus forests. Pannaria byssoidea is described as new to science from this area. The morphology, anatomy and chemistry of collections, including type specimens from Argentina, Chile and New Zealand were studied. The specimens from southern South America differ from those from New Zealand, and are here accommodated in a new species, P. byssoidea. The new species differs from P. implexa mainly in two characters: spore anatomy and medullary substance. The South American P. byssoidea is characterized by an orbicular squamulose thallus, surrounded by a thick byssoid prothallus, ellipsoid to subglobose ascospores, with roughened perispore, and the presence of leprolomin as medullary substance. Pannaria implexa is considered endemic to New Zealand, and is characterized by the ellipsoid ascospores, with a halonate perispore, and the presence of pannarin as medullary substance. Both species are illustrated and notes on their taxonomy, distribution and ecology are given.
10.2307/3241553|Bryum wrightii was first described by Sullivant and Lesquereux in 1859 from a collection made in Arakamchechen Island in Bering Straits, eastern-most Russia, by Charles Wright. This name antedates B. globosum Lindb. and has replaced it. Bryum wrightii is distinguished from other species by its arctic and subarctic distribution, by the crowded, globose and rosy-red or scarlet capsules, and by the rudimentary structure of the inner peristome. The species is reported here for the first time from arctic Alaska on collections by both authors, and other unreported collections are cited from Alaska, Canada, and Greenland. The North American distribution of B. wrightii is mapped.
10.2307/3244499| Four primarily saxicolous species and eight corticolous, secondarily saxicolous species of Usnea are known in North America. Morphology, chemistry, anatomy, ecology, and distribution of the mainly saxicolous Usnea amblyoclada (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr. (Syn. nov. U. globularis Motyka). U. ammannii P. Clerc & Herrera-Campos sp. nov., U. halei P. Clerc sp. nov., and U. nashii P. Clerc & Herrera-Campos sp. nov., are described. Usnea ceratina Ach., U. cornuta Koerb., U. dasaea Stirt., U. hesperina Motyka, U. mutabilis Stirt., U. rubicunda Stirt., U. subscabrosa Motyka, and U. wirthii P. Clerc are found only occasionally on rocks, and are briefly described. Usnea dasaea, (syn. nov. U. dolosa Motyka, U. galbinifera Asah., U. spinigera Asah., U. spinulifera (Vain.) Motyka, U. undulata Stirt.) is described in detail. Usnea amblyoclada is new for North America. Usnea dasaea is new for North America, South America, Africa, and Asia. A key for species occurring on rocks in North America is provided. A new term, fibercles, is proposed for more or less protuberant scars left on branches after fibrils have broken. 
10.2307/3242986|Stoneobryum bunyaense sp. nov. from the Bunya Mts. of southern Queensland is described as the type of a new genus. A second species, Orthotrichum mirum Lewinsky of South Africa, is transferred to the genus. The new genus resembles Bryodixonia in its sheathing, differentiated perichaetial leaves but differs in its cryptoporous stomata and Orthotrichum-type basal areolation of the leaves.
41289768|A new rheophytic moss genus and species Yunnanobryon rhyacophilum occurring in fast-flowing rivers of western Yunnan and southern Guizhou Province is described and illustrated. It is a slender moss with stoloniform primary stems and intricately much branched secondary stems, flagellate-attenuate at the tips; small, ovate to ovate-lanceolate leaves with almost uniform areolation throughout the lamina of small, rounded, hexagonal to quadrate-hexagonal cells; coarsely serrate leaf margins in the distal portion; subpercurrent single costae; and very short, bicellular axillary hairs consisting of a large globular apical cell and a short, quadrate and brownish-tinged basal cell. The peculiar shape of the axillary hairs suggests a close alliance of this new genus with the Regmatodontaceae.
3244751|Pseudephemerum is newly reported from Oregon, U.S.A. and Tlaxcala, Mexico. With examination of available specimens including types, Pleuridium tenellum is proposed as a new synonym of Pseudephemerum nitidum.
10.2307/3242275|Campylopus introflexus (Hedw.) Brid. sensu lato comprises two widespread, closely related species: tropical and warm-temperate C. pilifer Brid. (= C. polytrichoides DeNot.) and temperate southern hemispheric C. introflexus (Hedw.) Brid., which was recently introduced in Europe. Main differences are in the height of the dorsal lamellae of the leaves, in spore size and in seta length. In C. pilifer lamellae are more pronounced in tropical mountains than in lowland areas. An extreme form with lamellae up to seven cells high is C. pilifer var. lamellatus (Mont.) comb. nov. from Bolivia.
10.2307/3243718|Sphagnum platyphyllum is reported from a high elevation peatland in Costa Rica. Five other species of Sphagnum were collected from the same area.
20061078|A hornwort is reported from Dominican amber (Eocene-Oligocene). The specimen shows the horn-like sporophytes typical for this group of plants and can be placed into the Dendrocerotaceae, although an exact placement in Dendroceros or Megaceros cannot be made, it is the first record of a fossil hornwort.
10.2307/3241467| The Usnea florida group was studied by thin-layer chromatography to elucidate the range of natural-product variation, primarily in North American representations. Sixteen chemical constituents in 13 different combinations were identified in the 358 specimens examined. Most of the specimens produced -orcinol depsidones, salazinic and norstictic acids being the most common of these. But -orcinol depsides and one orcinol depside, lecanoric acid, were also found. The latter substance is reported for the genus Usnea for the first time. 
10.2307/3242719|Bryoerythrophyllum rubrum (Hedw.) Chen var. minus Saito is a synonym of Bryoerythrophyllum ferruginascens (Stirt.) Giac.; Bryoerythrophyllum tenerrimum (Broth.) Chen is a synonym of Bryoerythrophyllum recurvum (Griff.) Saito; Barbula fusca C. Muell., Barbula constricta Mitt., Barbula subcontorta Broth., Barbula flexicuspes Broth., nom. inval. and Didymodon vinealis (Brid.) Zand. var. flaccidus (Bruch & Schimp.) Zand. are synonyms of Didymodon vincalis (Brid.) Zand.
10.2307/3243516|The fruticose lichen Ramalina menziesii varies morphologically across its range in central, coastal California: The thallus is thin and filamentous near the ocean, net-like and coarser inland. We used a nondestructive sampling technique to estimate seasonal and annual linear growth of the inland form transplanted within an inland site and to a coastal site. Growth at the inland site was concentrated in the fall and winter months when precipitation occurred; growth at the coastal site was nearly constant through the first year of the study. Ramalina menziesii from the inland site grew significantly faster at the coast (38.7%/yr.) than inland (20.1%/yr.). Lichen from both sites was transplanted both within and between sites and biomass increase was measured destructively after 1 yr. Both morphs grew equally within the same site, and more rapidly at the coastal site. Annual growth rates were lower when estimated as biomass: Approximately 14%/yr. inland and 24%/yr. at the coast. Some genetic differences appeared to exist between morphological types, but their growth responses to the environment were plastic.
10.2307/3243971|The new lichen xanthones 2,5-dichloronorlichexanthone (in Buellia sp.), 2,7-dichloronorlichexanthone (in Buellia sp., Lecanora broccha), 4,7-dichloronorlichexanthone (in Lecidella asema) and 5,7-dichloronorlichexanthone (in Buellia sp., Lecanora broccha, Lecidella asema, Lecidella subalpicida) have been shown to co-occur in various combinations with the known naturally occurring xanthones 2,5-dichloronorlichexanthone, 4,5-dichloronorlichexanthone, isoarthothelin (2,5,7-trichloronorlichexanthone), arthothelin (2,4,5-trichloronorlichexanthone), 4,5,7-trichloronorlichexanthone (asemone), 5,7-dichloro-3-O-methylnorlichexanthone, 2,5,7-trichloro-3-O-methylnorlichexanthone, 4,5,7-trichloro-3-O-methylnorlichexanthone, and thiophanic acid.
3244564|A comparison of Buellia turgescens Nyl. ex Tuck. with B. badia (Fr.) A. Massal. demonstrates that the two taxa are identical. Both have very similar thalli, identical apothecial anatomy, identical size and structure of the ascospores, and bacilliform conidia. Consequently, B. turgescens should not be included in the genus Amandinea, which was erected to accommodate species of Buellia s.l. and Rinodina s.l. with filiform conidia. Thalli of B. badia show juvenile parasitism on foliose and crustose lichens, but with age become independent. The distribution of B. badia is shown in southwestern North America.
10.2307/3241776|Thirty-eight liverwort taxa are now known from Iran and Afghanistan and are listed with their distribution in these countries. Calypogeia fissa, Cololejeunea rossettiana, Lejeunea cavifolia, Lophocolea heterophylla, Metzgeria conjugata, Plagiochila asplenioides, and Porella aboris-vitae are new for Iran; Athalamia hyalina and Mannia fragrans are new for Afghanistan; Cololejeunea rossettiana is reported from the easternmost known locality. The holarctic element of the liverwort flora includes 27 species, the Mediterranean element 4 species, and the East Asian element 1-2 species. Foliose liverworts are confined to the South Caspian forest area, in Iran, and to the forests of Nuristan, in Afghanistan. Intermittently wet areas in the dry Iranian highlands have only species of the Marchantiales; these liverworts roll up their thalli during dry periods. Vertical distribution of liverworts of the South Caspian forest area is discussed.
10.2307/3242278|Samples of lichen and moss species collected in Norway have been analyzed for total amount of mercury. On the average the Hg content of lichens and mosses was greater than that of other higher plants or plant products. Division of the lichen thallus into three parts showed that the upper part was essentially richer in mercury than the middle or lower parts. The mercury content of the plant material was determined by neutron activation analysis and flameless atomic absorption spectrometry.
10.2307/3241801|On trees in bottomland forests near Winnipeg, Manitoba dominated by Ulmus americana, Fraxinus pennsylvanica, and to a lesser extent Acer negundo, Leskea obscura/polycarpa was the dominant bryophyte, with Anomodon minor, Frullania inflata, and Orthotrichum pumilum sometimes also prominent. On trees in the upland Populus tremuloides-Quercus macrocarpa forests in the same area, Amblystegium juratzkanum, A. varium, Brachythecium salebrosum, Mnium cuspidatum, and Pylaisiella polyantha were dominants. The bryophytes prominent in bottomland forests are eastern boreal while the upland dominants, except Pylaisiella polyantha, which is boreal, are pan-North American. We suggest that the river valleys provide favourable ecological niches, especially regarding higher humidity levels, and allow the westward extension of predominantly eastern bryophytes while excluding by spring flooding the pan-North American species.
10.2307/3241305|Pogonatum microstomum is both diplo-monoicous and diplodioicous with n = 14. Abnormal gametangia have been observed in the monoicous form. Some look like archegonia which show androcyte-like cells also, besides the eggs. Such small cells are present in the pedicel, venter, and neck region. Other gametangia have one or two venters which are incompletely or fully developed and placed either laterally or one above the other. They have potential eggs arranged in 1-2 axial rows. An almost cylindrical gametangium with a single axial row of cells has also been observed. The study of abnormal gametangia and the developmental patterns of normal ones support the idea of Church (1919) that gametangia are morphologically equivalent to small lateral ramuli. This is particularly true of mosses. The male and female gametangia appear to have followed independant courses of evolution from the early stages.
10.2307/3240578|The patterns of distribution of Verrucaria nigrescens Pers., V. amylacea Mass., Caloplaca cirrochroa (Ach.) Th. Fr., and jointly of C. aurantiaca (Lightf.) Th. Fr., and C. citrina (Hoffm.) Th. Fr. on limestone cliffs at Rattlesnake Point, Ontario, are analyzed. The first three species show pattern at a scale of 10 inches (25 cm). A variation in abundance with vertical position on the cliff is established for all species except V. amylacea by means of the covariance of species frequency with position; it is attributed to an environmental gradient up the cliff face. Covariances between slope measurements and species frequencies demonstrate the influence of slope on the patterns of the species. Calculations of the relative deviations from expected frequency at different slopes illustrate a probable competition effect whereby C. cirrochroa excludes other species from surfaces at places near its optimum slope.
10.2307/3241280|Ten species of tropical mosses were exposed to a range of humidities from 76% to 10% for four hours and then allowed 24 hours to recover. These mosses fell into two groups; those with high resistance to desiccation and those with low resistance. Those of the first group may be found in ecological niches of low humidity in the tropical forest.
3244742|Forest floor termite structures in Amazonia are attractive substrates for certain taxa of Fissidens (Bryophyta), four of which appear to grow preferentially on termite structures. A degree of adaptive co-evolution is suggested for the taxa which prefer the termite nest substrate because the termite structures provide an organically enriched naked soil-like substrate for the Fissidens, elevated above the forest floor leaf litter. Also, the protective overlapping growth pattern of the Fissidens plants may function to abate rain fall erosion of the termite structures. Fissidens, with 18 taxa collected from Amazonian termite structures, is by far the most important bryophyte exploiting this habitat; only a few other mosses and a few hepatics have been collected-irregularly-from the termite structure substrate.
10.2307/3243784| The genus Thysananthus (Lejeuneaceae subfam. Ptychanthoideae) has about 10 species in two subgenera and occurs in rain forests throughout the tropics. The center of diversity is in Southeast Asia. Dendrolejeunea and Fulfordianthus are segregated from Thysananthus on the basis of their dendroid growth habit, regularly pinnate branching, and differentiated cortex. Lack of trigones and oil bodies, and pycnolejeuneoid innovations, are the unique features of Fulfordianthus. A key is provided to the genera, subgenera, and species of this complex. Dendrolejeunea is monotypic and Asiatic in distribution whereas Fulfordianthus contains two species endemic to Central America and the Choc region of northwestern South America. These two genera are elements of the shaded understory of old-growth tropical rainforest and their continued existence is threatened by destruction of the forest. 
10.2307/3240904|Vestergrenopsis elaeina is reported for the first time in the United States from the Mendenhall Valley near Juneau, Alaska.
43188700|AS part of a larger systematic and taxonomic revision of the genus Sticta in the northern Andes, several species were discovered forming green algal and cyanobacterial photosymbiodemes, seven of which are new to science and are described here S. lobarioides Moneada & Coca, S. macrothalltna Moneada & Coca, S. neopulmonartoides Moneada & Coca, S. phyllidiokunthii Moneada & Lucking, S. pseudolobaria Moneada & Coca, S. pulmonarioides Moneada & Coca, and S. tatamana Moneada & Coca. All species are discussed and illustrated, and a key to species with Lobaria pulmonaria gross morphology is given.
10.2307/3244025|Sphagnum (Cuspidata) pacificum Flatb. is recognized by the leaves of its capitular and divergent branches which are narrow, distally subulate-involute, and markedly recurved when dry; its long, acute-apiculate stem leaves longer than broad; and small, more or less equilaterally triangular chlorocysts of divergent branch leaves well enclosed on the concave surface in transverse section. The new species is most closely related to S. fallax (Klinggr.) Klinggr. It is reported from many localities in Pacific North America.
10.2307/3243222|Scorpidium turgescens (T. Jens.) Loeske is reported from a limestone pavement habitat in Jefferson County, New York State, U.S.A. This moss was reported as a subfossil in western New York in sediments dated 12,000 B.P.; however, no living populations had been found in New York State until its recent discovery there by Slack.
43188731|As part of an ongoing, comprehensive inventory of all Galapagos lichen species, the genus Bulbothrix is revised here. In Galapagos it is represented by five species of which only one, B. laevigatula, had previously been reported. Bulbothrix lyngei, B. scortella and B. subdissecta are all new to Galapagos; they also represent the first reports of these species for Ecuador. A fifth species, Bulbothrix bulbillosa, is described as new to science.
20061098|The Gyalectaceae are a family of lichenized ascomycetes of worldwide distribution from temperate to tropical regions that share a general type of hemiangiocarpous ascoma ontogeny and apothecia having a pseudoparenchymatic excipulum proprium. The genus Coenogonium (including Dimerella) has been included in the Gyalectaceae, but varies from the remaining species of this family in apothecial ontogeny and anatomy, spore size and septation, thallus and pycnidial anatomy, and ascus ultrastructure. To determine the relationships between Coenogonium and other genera in the family, ascoma ontogeny and various anatomical characters were investigated in detail. Although the ontogeny of both the genus Coenogonium and the Gyalectaceae s. str. is hemiangiocarpous, the development of the apothecia of Coenogonium and the resulting apothecial anatomy are remarkably different. Ontogenetic, anatomical, and morphological evidence supports the re-establishment of the monogeneric family Coenogoniaceae (Fr.) Stizenb.
10.2307/3240677|Fifty-eight species from Illinois are reported, 13 of them new to the flora of the state.
10.2307/3241020|Ninety-three species are reported from the Mendenhall Valley near Juneau and 35 species from nunataks in the Juneau ice field.
10.2307/3242521|Florschuetzia is related to Diphyscium but differs by its gymnostomous capsule, capsule shape and unistratose vegetative leaves. One species, F. pilmaiquen, is known from central Chile.
10.2307/3240486|Thalli of Xanthoria fallax, X. parietina, Parmelia caperata, and Physcia millegrana were exposed to 5 ppm sulfur dioxide gas for 24 hours at various conditions of humidity. Abnormalities of bleaching of the chlorophyll, permanent plasmolysis, and formation of sporadic brown spots on the chloroplasts were observed in the algal cells. Sulfurous acid and Mg
10.2307/3242379|The combination Cladina stellaris (Opiz) Brodo (Syn. Cladonia alpestris (L.) Rabenh.) was invalidly published in Brodo's Lichenes Canadenses Exsiccati; it is validated here.
3244331|In 1995, we installed surface-sterilized, rough-barked and smooth-barked tree branches in clearcuts, young forests, and old growth. Half of the experimental branches were inoculated with propagules of the epiphytic cyanolichen, Lobaria oregana. In 1997, we concluded that L. oregana was associated with old-growth Douglas-fir forests because of dispersal limitation; addition of L. oregana propagules resulted in a marked increase in establishment rates. In 1999, we revisited the experiment to determine whether other epiphytes had colonized the tree branches. We also checked to see if the 1997 results of the experiment persisted. A total of 26 epiphyte genera (nine bryophytes and 17 lichens) had colonized the branches. Lichen colonization was generally fastest in clearcuts. Colonization by alectorioid lichens was rapid in both clearcuts and old growth but slow in young forests. In contrast, bryophyte colonization was relatively rapid in all age classes. Epiphyte colonization was generally more rapid on smooth bark than on rough bark, although Cladonia was more frequent on rough-barked branches. Bryophytes, cyanolichens, and Sphaerophorus globosus were more frequent on inoculated branches than on control branches, implying that the L. oregana propagule mixture used in 1995 was contaminated with other epiphytes. Like L. oregana, these species may also be dispersal-limited. The number of established L. oregana thalli in clearcuts and young stands decreased from 1997 to 1999, but the number of thalli remained relatively stable in old growth. After four years, established L. oregana thalli were larger in clearcuts than in either young stands or old growth. Overall, the fourth-year results of our experiment confirm the importance of dispersal limitation as the cause of old-growth association in L. oregana in western Oregon.
10.2307/3241549|Microclimatic data for a population of Bryum argenteum at Cape Armitage, Ross Island, indicate that from 8 December 1971 to 4 January 1972 relative humidity at ground level varied between a mean daily maximum of 87% at night and a mean minimum of 46% by day, while mean daily maximum and minimum values for intensity of incoming solar radiation were 0.69 and 0.03 cal/cm
10.2307/3242073|This study is concerned with an examination of the antibiotic activity of 52 species (in 40 genera) of the bryophytes. The plants were extracted in water, methanol, ethanol, ether and acetone and tested against 12 microorganisms, including 3 Gram positive (Staphylococcus aureus, a penicillin-sensitive and penicillin-resistant strain, Sarcina lutea and Bacillus subtilis), 5 Gram negative (Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhi, Vibrio cholerae, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa), one acid-fast bacterium (Mycobacterium phlei) and 3 fungi (Curvularia lunata, Aspergillus niger and Helminthosporium oryzae). Solubility data and antibiotic spectra of the active plants indicate the occurrence of a variety of antibiotic substances among bryophytes. Out of 52 species of bryophytes, 29 (56%) were active against at least one of the test bacteria, but none possessed any antifungal property. The occurrence of antibiotic substances seems to be more frequent in hepatics than in mosses and anthocerotopsids. Antibiotic activity was particularly prominent in the Rebouliaceae, where all 5 species tested were active. The moss Brachythecium procumbens and the liverworts Asterella sanguinea and Marchantia paleacea showed the broadest spectrum of antibiotic activity. Among the test organisms used Salmonella typhi was found to be most sensitive.
3244137|A new species, Cheilolejeunea gaoi (Hepaticae, Lejeuneaceae) from Guangxi, China, is described and illustrated. It differs from other Cheilolejeunea species in its marginal denticulation of the leaf lobe and of underleaves. These are formed by projecting corners of two adjacent cells rather than single projecting cells. The new species resembles the genus Pictolejeunea in plant habit, leaf cells, perianth shape, absence of gynoecial innovation, and structure of apex of leaf lobule. However, the former differs primarily in the marginal position of the hyaline papilla of the leaf lobule and the absence of ocelli in the leaf lobes and underleaves.
10.2307/3240811|Twenty species of mosses and two of hepatics are reported for the first time from Mt. Katahdin.
20110852|Molecular phylogenetic analyses of hornworts were performed on a nucleotide data set consisting of mitochondrial nad5, chloroplast rbcL and nuclear 18S gene regions. Thirty-seven hornworts representing most of the named generic segregates and morphological diversity in the group were sampled for the three gene analysis while an additional 25 samples were included in an analysis of rbcL alone. Results of these analyses confirm the relationships observed in prior molecular studies but also reveal a number of previously unrecognized yet highly supported clades. On the basis of this and continued morphological and ultrastructural investigations we propose a revised classification of the hornworts. At the highest levels, five well-supported clades are demonstrated and they include: 1) Leiosporoceros, which in most analyses is sister to the remaining hornworts; 2) Anthoceros, Folioceros and Sphaerosporoceros; 3) Notothylas and Phaeoceros; 4) Phymatoceros, a recently described genus that contains two species previously included in Phaeoceros; and 5) the remaining hornwort genera: Megaceros, Dendroceros, Nothoceros and a new genus, Phaeomegaceros. Challenges for continued studies that focus on hornwort systematics include obtaining live specimens worldwide and sorting through the chaotic taxonomy within the group. Morphological studies are hindered by poor preservation of existing collections, and the lack of background data and expertise in hornwort biology. Likewise, molecular sequence data are challenged by the deep divergences and potential effects of extensive RNA editing on phylogenetic reconstruction. Future directions for hornwort systematic studies include accumulating gene sequence data that resolve interspecific relationships and comparative anatomical/ultrastructural work that further elucidates biodiversity in the group. Our ongoing, interdisciplinary studies will culminate in a comprehensive analysis that combines molecular and morphological data for a total evidence approach.
10.2307/3240983|Spore germination and prothallial development are described in Sphagnum meridense. Techniques for protonemal culture are given and possible applications here of recent photomorphogenetic studies on fern prothallia are discussed.
20485823|Sculptolumina japonica (Tuck.) Marbach, a species growing on lignum, bark or decaying plants and hitherto known from subtropical and tropical areas and one locality in North America, is now reported from Europe (northern Portugal) and the Canary Islands (La Gomera). This species has been found to possess filiform conidia. As a consequence we propose to amend the genus Sculptolumina to accommodate species that have long filiform conidia in addition to hymenial oil droplets and ascospores with internal wall thickenings. New chemical data are reported for S. japonica, the world distribution of this species is mapped and illustrations of the ascospores and conidia are provided.
10.2307/3241492|The 234 genera and 2,735 species reported from the lichen flora of the continental United States and Canada are listed, and a systematic synopsis of the genera by the 47 families recognized is given. New combinations are made in the genera Agrestia, Cladina, Dimelaena, and Dirinaria.
10.2307/3241022|A photographic method of assay for determining thallus area in liverworts is described.
10.2307/3243412|In the northern Mojave desert, California, Tortula inermis was found growing below a piece of translucent rock.
20110833|The Calymperaceae are a large pantropical moss clade. This paper reports the results of a phylogenetic analysis of the Calymperaceae, with an emphasis on the relationships of the large and putatively polyphyletic Syrrhopodon. Two chloroplast genes, rps4 and trnL, part of the nuclear encoded gpd, and morphological characters were analyzed individually and in combination. The total-evidence phylogenetic tree was used to construct a rank-free classification of the Calymperaceae following the guidelines of the current draft of the PhyloCode. The total-evidence cladistic analysis supports the monophyly of Calymperes and Mitthyridium, as well as the "leucobryoid" Calymperaceae, and confirms that Syrrhopodon (s.l.) is polyphyletic. In the context of this phylogeny, the presence of peristome teeth and bordered leaves are derived features within the Calymperaceae. The rank-free system of classification has several advantages over the Linnaean system for dealing with the taxonomic changes implicit in this phylogeny, primarily with regard to preserving the names of well-supported monophyletic groups such as Mitthyridium. However, we question the utility of article 11.7 of the PhyloCode, and offer some practical observations regarding clade names and the use of type specimens as specifiers.
41486727|Work on a catalogue of the Grimmiaceae in G revealed that the typification of Grimmia cribrosa Hedw. [ Coscinodon cribrosus (Hedw.) Spruce] was problematic. The specimen in G that was previously treated as the holotype for this name does not constitute original Hedwig material and could not have been seen by him when originally describing this species as it was collected after he died. The original Hedwig herbarium sheet for Grimmia cribrosa, in the Hedwig-Schwgrichen collection in G, contains eight different elements of different temporal and geographic origins as well as specimens of two different taxa (C.cribrosus and Grimmia plagiopodia Hedw.). To ensure the correct interpretation and application of this name a lectotype has been proposed herein from amongst the elements on the original Hedwig herbarium sheet in G.
25614872|A new genus Puttea S. Stenroos & Huhtinen is described for the lichen species formerly known as Fellhanera margaritella (Hulting) Hafellner. The study was based on phylogenetic analyses of the mtSSU as well as on anatomical and ecological investigations. Puttea is characterized by its inconspicuous thallus, gelatinized exipulum of radiating hyphae, hemiamyloid asci of the Psora-type arising from croziers, non-septate spores and a crystalline layer covering the hymenium and excipulum. The currently monospecific genus grows almost exclusively on the liverwort Ptilidium pulcherrimum and has so far been reported from Austria, the Czech Republic, Finland, Norway, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden and Switzerland. The taxonomic position of Puttea could not be reliably assessed but in the present analyses it appears, together with Lecidea hypopta, in a clade comprising the Sphaerophoraceae, Psoraceae, Ramalinaceae and Pilocarpaceae.
3244566|Cyathodium foetidissimum Schiffn., an Asiatic species is reported for the first time for the Neotropics. The species is distinguished by the presence of a central multistratose area of cells; oil cells with a single oil body; strongly dimorphic rhizoids; large ventral scales; monoicous condition with an apical, male receptacle flanked by archegonia in undulate laminar involucres; an operculum of 12 cells; upper cells of the capsule with bar-like thickenings; elaters with three bands; and verrucose spores. The closest relative in habit is Cyathodium spruceanum Prosk., but plants of this species lack a "midrib" and have oil bodies and chloroplasts in the thallus cells; it is dioicous and the spores are lamellate-reticulate. Mature male plants of Cyathodium foetidissimum have been found along with bisexual thalli. This is the first report of both types of gametophytes occurring simultaneously in monoicous species of neotropical Cyathodium.
10.2307/3243494|The new lichenicolous fungus Ascochyta candelariellicola D. Hawksw. & K. Kalb is described from apothecia of Candelariella aurella (Hoffm.) Zahlbr. in Baja California, Mexico. This is only the second lichenicolous species of Ascochyta s.s. to be recognized.
3244872|Diagnoses are given for Braunia alopecura (Brid.) Limpr. and B. delavayi Besch. A key to two species of Braunia in China is provided. Braunia obtusicuspis Broth. is synonymized with Hedwigidium integrifolium (P. Beauv.) Dix.
10.2307/3242414|In order to ascertain why certain bryophyte species are common while others are rare, and perhaps refugial, an autecological investigation on populations of Trichocolea tomentella (Ehrh.) Dum., Nowellia curvifolia (Dicks.) Mitt., Lophocolea heterophylla (Schrad.) Dum., Diphyscium foliosum (Hedw.) Mohr and Atrichum angustatum (Brid.) B.S.G. in three separate areas in southern Illinois is presented. Vapor pressure deficit, plant surface temperature and radiant energy in the blue, red and far red wavelengths, as well as substrate pH and exchangeable potassium and phosphorus ions were utilized to compare the microhabitats. Sample populations of Trichocolea and Nowellia, which are northern in distribution and rarely occur in southern Illinois, grow in definite microhabitats with narrow ranges of environmental conditions that are similar from one area to another. Sample populations of Lophocolea, Atrichum and Diphyscium, however, all possess wider ecological amplitudes. Of the environmental factors considered, moisture conditions seem to be the most significant in comparing the microhabitats of the different populations.
10.2307/3243464|Bazzania nova Engel & Merr. sp. nov. is described from New Zealand; Bazzania involuta var. submutica (Lindenb. & Gott.) Engel & Merr. and B. adnexa var. aucklandica (Lindenb. & Gott.) Engel & Merr. are new combinations. Acromastigum cunninghamii (Steph.) Evans is reported as new to New Zealand, and the presence of Bazzania monilinervis (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Trev. in New Zealand is confirmed. Mastigobyrum nitens Col. is transferred to the synonymy of B. adnexa (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Gott.
10.2307/3241722|The distribution of Heterodea muelleri in Australia and more particularly in Tasmania is crudely determined by the average rainfall which must lie between 300 and 1200 mm per year. Diffractaic acid is the only lichen substance present (2.15%) in H. muelleri suggesting close affinity with the Parmeliaceae. Spectral (I.R. and N.M.R.) data for diffractaic acid are recorded.
10.2307/3243808|Cladopodanthus is a tropical Asian genus of leucobryoid mosses consisting of three species: C. microcarpus, C. heterophyllum, and C. speciosus. The genus is characterized by its frequently awned leucobryaceous leaves, erect capsules, and mitrate, nonfringed calyptrae. Its leaves have very narrow lamina, two layers of leucocysts, and hypocentric chlorocysts.
10.2307/3241799|Frequency data on the occurrence of lichens on the trunks of aspen trees at three localities in the parkland region of the Canadian Great Plains have been subjected to agglomerative classification and ordination by principal components analysis in an attempt to define community and species relations. The results suggest that the lichen species are most strongly influenced by moisture stress but are also significantly influenced by nutrient status and light regime of the habitat. Moisture availability is primarily related to habitat factors, the Cypress Hills and Biggar forest sites being relatively mesic, compared to the more exposed parkland sites. Trees at the Waterton forest site have a very smooth bark and hence provide a more xeric substrate despite the higher rainfall at that locality. The effect of aspect is of secondary importance generally but was critical at the parkland and Waterton forest sites where moisture was limiting. The higher nutrient status of the Cypress Hills forest site is due to an adjacent road, and a similar but less strong effect at the Cypress Hills and Waterton parkland sites to cattle. The high density of trees at the Waterton and Cypress Hills parkland sites is probably responsible for the apparent low light intensities at these sites; Biggar parkland has the highest light intensity. The environmental preferences of the lichen species are discussed, partly by reference to the better known ecology of some of the species in Europe, and tabulated.
3244884|According to cpDNA trnL
3244887|Cladonia lacryma sp. nov., a previously overlooked species from north coastal California and adjacent Oregon, is characterized by the teardrop-like shape of its podetium. The unusual shape develops when the indistinct, immature cup is deformed by the vertical growth of a single proliferation along its margin. Cladonia lacryma is similar to other species in section Cladonia, which are characterized by closed cups and the presence of fumarprotocetraric acid. The pattern of growth dynamics of C. lacryma suggests its affinity with C. prolifica, which grows on similar soil types in California.
10.2307/3242076|Sticta filix and Pseudocyphellaria delisei, two of the most wide-spread Tasmanian lichens, reach greatest dominance in areas of precipitation of approximately 1600 mm yr
10.2307/3241873|The distribution of epiphytic lichens and bryophytes in the Aalborg-Nrresundby area, Denmark, was mapped and compared with air pollution data and bark properties. The distributions were well-correlated with SO
10.2307/3241752|The ability of Dicranum fulvum to reproduce from vegetative fragments and the suitability of sandstone as a habitat account, in part, for the success and extensive growth of this moss in southeastern Ohio. The reduction of light intensity and temperature in the deciduous forest favors extensive growth of the species on exposed sandstone there. Furthermore, the moss can remain viable for periods of dryness that exceed the normal intervals without precipitation in the vicinity of Athens, Ohio.
3244772| Fissidens jansenii Srgio & Pursell is described and illustrated as a new aquatic species from Portugal. The ecology of the species is discussed. 
10.2307/3241188|Tholurna dissimilis Norm., previously considered endemic to Scandinavia, is reported from the mountains of southwest British Columbia.
10.2307/3241976| Eleven species of foliicolous lichens from southeastern United States are reported. Among these are three new reports for continental United States: Asterothyrium leucophthalmum (Mll.Arg.) R. Sant., Echinoplaca intercedens Vzda and Tricharia santessonii Hawksw. The taxonomy of the Lopadium fuscum group is reexamined, and it is concluded that the specimens from the U.S. are to be identified as Lopadium puiggarii (Mll.Arg.) Zahlbr. 
10.2307/3242256|The bryoflora of Woodman Hollow State Preserve, Webster County, Iowa, consists of one hundred forty-two species, including one hundred seventeen mosses, twenty-three liverworts and two hornworts. Of these, eighty-four are reported for the first time from the county.
3244699|To compare effects of aspect, height on tree, and host species on species richness and cover of epiphytic lichens and bryophytes on conifers, we sampled Chamaecyparis nootkatensis, Picea sitchensis, and Tsuga heterophylla on the north and south sides in the first, second, and third meters of tree trunks in Vladimir J. Krajina Ecological Reserve. A total of 11 taxa of mosses, 26 of liverworts, and 4 of lichens were recognized. Bryophytes, especially liverworts, dominated in both cover and number of occurrences, with the most common being Dicranum scoparium, Isothecium myosuroides, Bazzania flaccida, and Scapania bolanderi. Rhytidiadelphus loreus was abundant at the tree bases but not at other heights. There was no host specificity. The rough mat growth form comprised both the highest cover and greatest number of species of bryophytes on each of the three tree species. This study demonstrates that under the right bark conditions liverworts can be more abundant than mosses and both more abundant than lichens on conifer bark.
10.2307/3243646|Racomitrium hespericum from the Iberian Peninsula is described as a new species of section Papillosa (Kindb.) Nog., and its diagnostic characters are illustrated. It is closely related to R. aciculare (Hedw.) Brid. Racomitrium hespericum is an aquatic moss, and its ecology is discussed. The distribution of the species is mapped. It is endemic to the Iberian Peninsula.
23321054|Macromitrium tosae Besch. and M. cavaleriei Cardot & Thr. are two taxa that are poorly discriminated from one another, and M. melanostomum Paris & Broth., M. courtoisii Broth. & Paris, M. cylindrothecium Nog. and M. chungkingense P. C. Chen are four little known species. Cluster and Principle Component Analyses were applied to evaluate the morphological distinctiveness of these species based on 27 character indices of leaf morphology from ten type specimens and 17 other specimens. Macromitrium cylindrothecium, M. chungkingense, M. courtoisi and M. melanostomum are not unambiguously distinct from M. tosae and should therefore be considered conspecific. Macromitrium tosae, a common species in China, differs, however, from M. cavaleriei by shorter, lingulate, apiculate branch leaves with obtuse apices and distinctly pluripapillose laminal cells, and its inner perichaetial leaves with acuminate or short acuminate apices.
41289765|The Pyxine pungens complex comprises species producing atranorin in the upper cortex, lacking vegetative propagules and reacting K+ blackish purple in the pigmented medulla. Based mainly on the development of apothecia, pigmentation and development of the internal stipe and chemistry, three new species morphologically similar to P. pungens are described. Pyxine rhodesiaca and P. schechingeri are also treated and compared to this complex of species.
10.2307/3244233|Mason E. Hale's "List of Epithets in the Parmelioid Genera" provides a comprehensive view of his classification scheme for Parmelia s. lat. and its numerous segregate genera. Over Hale's three-decade career, Parmelia Ach. went from a large, understudied genus, to a small genus with a constellation of more than 35 generic segregates, mostly erected by Hale and his close associates. A review of Hale's extensive bibliography suggests that his classification scheme was fixed largely by the mid-1960s when he first treated Parmelia and proposed a new infrageneric classification for its neotropical species. Over the next 25 years, Hale and his colleagues divided the genus into relatively small, homologous groups of species in two stages. In a first stage in the mid-1970s, Hale developed new character systems that supported his recognition of many of the Parmelia infrageneric taxa as seven segregate genera. In a second stage in the mid-1980's, he and his colleagues refined these genera and named many new genera in response to newly available collections from Africa and Australia. Although Hale's classification of the parmelioid lichens remains controversial, he introduced new ideas and new technologies to lichen taxonomy and systematics, especially the use of chemical characters and scanning electron microscope (SEM) examinations of the cortical structures.
10.2307/3241473|Ten species of liverworts together with eight species and one variety of mosses are reported from Manitoba for the first time.
20061143|The largest collection studied so far of mosses in Dominican amber is reported here. The collection, in the Smithsonian Institution, consists of 76 pieces of amber containing bryophyte material, with a range of one to seven species of mosses and liverworts per piece. Nearly all specimens could be attributed to extant taxa and a total of 18 distinct moss species were identified in this collection, which raises the total number of mosses known from Dominican amber to 28. Six taxa assignable with some confidence to extant species are reported for the first time from Dominican amber: Calymperes levyanum, Calymperes smithii, Mniomalia viridis, Octoblepharum cylindricum, Orthostichopsis praetermissa, Plagiomnium rhynchophorum. A list of all species of mosses so far known from Dominican amber is given with an indication of their frequency in amber, and present distribution and altitudinal range. Some species are very rare at present and may be approaching extinction today. The main component of mosses so far found from the amber forest consists of species of Leucobryaceae, Calymperaceae, and Neckeraceae. Most species are widespread and found today in the West Indies as well as in Central and South America, thus representing an old stock of neotropical species. The present altitudinal distribution of the species ranges from lowland-submontane to montane, indicating climate changes within the period of amber production. In contrast to the liverworts reported from Dominican amber, the mosses can mostly be attributed to extant species, indicating perhaps a slower rate of evolution than in liverworts. Assemblages of several bryophyte species in amber show the presence of extinct liverworts together with extant mosses, the latter in combinations which are still found today.
10.2307/3243779|Dermatocarpon miniatum (L.) Mann and D. reticulatum Magn. have vagrant forms with the gross morphology of D. vagans Imsh. Dermatocarpon vagans is not a distinct species. Rather, it is an environmental modification of D. reticulatum. Optimum habitat for vagrant Dermatocarpon in the western United States has the following characteristics: mostly flat, exposed areas with sparse vegetation; thin rocky basalt soils; seasonal shallow ponding; and a climate with hot dry summers and cold winters.
3244656|There are no standard measures of fungal fitness, and yet descriptions of natural selection in fungi require an understanding of how to compare the success of two individuals. Success, or fitness, is normally understood to be a combination of survival and reproduction. Xanthoparmelia cumberlandia is a sexual, lichenized fungus. By recording the size of, and number of sexual structures on, individual lichens we demonstrate a significant correlation between size and reproductive effort in this species, showing that size is an easily measured surrogate of fitness. Published data of other lichen species, for example Umbilicaria spodochroa or Xanthoria parietina, also show a correlation between size and sexual fecundity, indicating that the correlation may be a general feature of sexual lichens. However, patterns of resource allocation differ between lichen species. Published data collected from U. spodochroa are linear, demonstrating that larger lichens allocate equivalent resources to growth and reproduction. In contrast, the data of X. cumberlandia are curved, indicating that in this species larger lichens allocate a disproportionate share of resources to reproduction.
10.2307/3243147|Comparison of the morphology of the perianth of Tritomaria quinquedentata var. turgida (Lindb.) Weim. from the Alpine region of Scandinavia and the perianth of T. quinquedentata var. quinquedentata from the temperate part of the same area indicates a less close affinity than recognized by previous workers and evidence is presented to elevate var. turgida to rank of subspecies.
20110859|Bryophyte growth is most often cited as being primarily water-limited; however, experimental manipulation of water availability in the field has not previously been employed to test this hypothesis. Here we follow the growth responses of a leafy liverwort, Bazzania trilobata, to field water addition treatments. Our study system was an eastern hemlock stand located in the lower Hubbard Brook Valley in northern New Hampshire where Bazzania forms pure colonies over boulders. The experimental design accounted for effects of boulder treatment (control, water addition or water plus nitrogen), aspect (north-or south-facing), position (top, east or west side of a boulder) and liverwort stem density. To follow growth responses of Bazzania, we tracked changes in biomass gain, stem elongation and branching over 86 days. Environmental measurements for the evaluation period and supplemental physiological data for Bazzania were also taken. An increase in water availability did not evoke a straightforward increase in growth. Water and water plus nitrogen additions appeared to have a short-term initial effect on biomass gain and a moderating effect on elongation and growth rates. Biomass gain of Bazzania stems appeared limited by respiration costs, but further evidence would be needed to confirm this hypothesis. Branching was favored over stem elongation in grid cells with fewer stems and positions receiving higher light intensities. A carbon-balance hypothesis, considering the water, light and temperature conditions required to achieve a positive carbon balance, offers a more realistic model of the complexity of limitations to bryophyte growth. Comparative ecology of carbon balance for mosses and liverworts offers an intriguing and under-explored avenue in bryophyte ecology.
10.2307/3243606|Saxicolous lichens in exposed habitats on the East Slope of the Colorado Front Range were damaged by an unusual sequence of weather events in late January and early February 1989. Rapid cooling of hydrated, metabolically active thalli caused spalling of upper cortices and algal layers, exposing white medullary tissue. Foliose and umbilicate species were damaged more severely than crustose species; young tissue was particularly frost tender. Frost injury, though uncommon in the southern Rocky Mountains, probably occurs frequently enough to influence patterns of lichen distribution in winter-snowfree microenvironments.
43188717|Two members of the Lecanora varia group (sensu Eigler), L. strobilina and L. symmicta, can be difficult to distinguish in northeastern North America. Morphological and chemical investigation of 277 specimens recognizes two species in northeastern North America, both fitting European concepts of L. strobilina and L. symmicta. The only reliable character for separating them is the size of the exciple (consistently larger in L. symmicta). Within each of these two species, previously unknown chemical variation is revealedL. strobilina comprises three distinct chemotypes, while L. symmicta includes two. An isotype of L. symmictera is shown to contain the thiophanic acid chemosyndrome by HPLC, and hence the name L. symmictera cannot be applied to the xanthone-deficient chemotype of L. symmicta. Chemistry is not correlated with morphology or geographic distribution in either L. strobilina or L. symmicta, so we regard the chemotypes of these two species as intraspecific variation.
10.2307/3242853|A specimen of Bryum incrassatolimbatum Card, was discovered among some collections from Oklahoma, U.S.A. It is otherwise known only from the type locality in west-central Mexico.
10.2307/3242142|A new exsiccata, Bryophyta Exsiccata Terrae-Novae et Labradoricae, is being issued by Memorial University of Newfoundland for the Canadian province of Newfoundland (Labrador and island of Newfoundland). Thirty-five sets have been issued in fascicles of 25 numbers each.
10.2307/3243028|Populations of Forsstroemia trichomitria (Hedw.) Lindb. and F. producta (Hornsch.) Par. in Virginia have several similar phenological characters: branching pattern of secondary stems in relation to inflorescence position, season and length of the interval of fertilization, protogyny, pattern of sporophyte maturation, and structure and development of postfertilization paraphyses. The two species differ phenologically in the distribution of perigonia and perichaetia, numbers of gametangia and inflorescences, and the time of gametangial initiation. The combination of protogyny, a unisexual phase toward the end of the interval of fertilization in one species, a long interval of fertilization, and copious spore production in an absence of asexual propagules suggests that outcrossing between genotypes may occur. Phenological characters are relevant to the biological species concept because they help characterize the pattern of gene flow in bryophytes. Variation in phenological characters is present in genera related to Forsstroemia indicating that several generalized phenological characters may be useful in systematics at the generic or familial levels.
41486721|The new species Bucklandiella araucana Larran is described from southern Chile. It is characterized by its small size, epilose, almost cuculiate leaves, lack of a differentiated basal marginal row of pellucid and straight-walled cells, bistratose and dorsally flat costa at midleaf, smooth to slightly bulging lamina cells, unistratose leaf lamina with scattered bistratose spots at distal margins, undivided, prong-like peristome teeth, and deeply lobed calyptra. The species seems to be an endemic of the volcanic range of the western slopes of the southern Andes (39-42S), where it grows in Nothofagus forests and open lava fields on the hillsides of the many active volcanoes of the area. Molecular data support the distinctiveness of this new taxon and identify Bucklandiella araucana as sister to B. curiosissima, didyma, and B. emersa. A distribution map and illustrations of the new species are presented. The phylogenetic perspectives of our novelmolecular results are discussed.
10.2307/3241757|Two lichens, Parmelia antillensis Nyl. and P. martinicana Nyl., are reported as new to the North American flora.
10.2307/3242759|Orthotrichum gymnostomum Brid. gametophytes were found with sporophytes having characters intermediate between that species and the closely related O. obtusifolium. The most important character of these anomalous sporophytes is a single peristome, as opposed to the double peristome of O. obtusifolium and the eperistomate condition of O. gymnostomum. O. gymnostomum and O. obtusifolium were growing intermixed, and the intermediate sporophytes are interpreted as naturally occurring hybrids between the two species. The spores in the hybrid capsules are wrinkled and appear to have been aborted. Hybridization between the two species is briefly discussed in relation to their ecology and North American range.
10.2307/3242677|Tortula lithophila is confirmed as a synonym of Sarconeurum glaciale (C. Muell.) Card. et Bryhn. The gametophytic differences between S. glaciale and a similar species, T. abruptinervis Dix. are summarized.
10.2307/3241817|Five mosses are reported as new to the flora of Texas. Several other new county records and additions to the mosses of Leon and Newton Counties are included.
43188716|The North American endemic moss Dicranum howellii Renauld & Cardot, described in 1888 based on material from Oregon, U.S.A., had yet to be validly typified. A lectotype for D. howellii is designated herein based on one of two potential type specimens in the Renauld collection in PC. Dicranum howellii is currently known from western North America in Canada (British Colombia) and the U.S.A (Alaska, California, Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washington). Traditionally it has been considered as close to, or a synonym of, Dicranum scoparium Hedw. and specimens of it are frequently confused with the latter species. Dicranum howellii can be distinguished from D. scoparium based on its suddenly narrowed inner perichaetial leaves that end in a long, flexuose point; leaves that are concave below and tubulose above; slightly decurrent leaf bases; in transverse section, leaf cell-walls that are of variable thickness; and the presence of a sulcus on the dorsal side of the costa.
3244611|Intra-annual growth patterns of Racomitrium lanuginosum, Pleurozium schreberi, Sphagnum austinii, Sphagnum fuscum, Sphagnum rubellum, Sphagnum papillosum, Sphagnum lindbergii, Sphagnum tenellum, and Sphagnum pacificum were studied in relation to local precipitation and temperature in a sloping open peatland on the hypermaritime north coast of British Columbia. The growth of mosses was strongly correlated with precipitation and less with temperature. A temperature effect on growth was suggested by the emphasized correlation between growth and a combination of precipitation and temperature. Temperature thresholds for Sphagnum spp. were estimated to be lower than those for P. schreberi and R. lanuginosum. Growth rates of hummock Sphagnum spp. were lower and the seasonal growth pattern was less variable than those of hollow and lawn Sphagnum spp. Despite low vertical growth rates, hummock Sphagnum spp. had higher productivity than hollow and lawn Sphagnum spp. Winter-growth in this hypermaritime region appears to be important.
10.2307/3243432|As the most primitive living lineages of embryophytes, bryophytes are critical to an understanding of the evolution of the land flora. A relatively robust phylogenetic hypothesis exists, based on morphology, ultrastructure, and chemistry, in which the classical group "bryophytes" is not monophyletic. Instead, the mosses seem to be more closely related to the tracheophytes than to the hornworts or liverworts. However, details of these relationships remain unclear. In this paper we explore the usefulness of comparative molecular studies as a potential source of independent data to test and refine this cladogram. We have generated preliminary nucleotide sequence data from portions of the 16S and 23S ribosomal RNA genes in the chloroplasts of 11 bryophytes selected from diverse groups. These data, even though they show considerable homoplasy, appear to be historically informative at this deep phylogenetic level since they support a cladogram that is identical to the morphological one. Future studies will expand the molecular comparisons by sequencing the rest of these two rRNA genes, as well as the protein-coding gene rbcL, for many more species.
10.2307/3243437| Rinodina sheardii Tnsberg is described as new from Norway and Alaska where it is corticolous in humid localities. Rinodina sheardii shows affinities with R. subminuta. 
10.2307/3241892|Nitrogen fixation by the lichens Lobaria pulmonaria, Sticta weigelii, Leptogium cyanescens and Collema subfurvum was measured by the acetylene reduction method. Fixation rates were maximum at 30C for all species except C. subfurvum which fixed maximally at 25C. Maximum fixation was observed at 200 Einsteins m
10.2307/3242862|The aquatic lichen Hydrotheria venosa is known in Tennessee from Sevier, Blount and Monroe Counties. The habitat of the Monroe County population is described in detail.
10.2307/3244200|Sixty-three species of lichenicolous fungi are reported from British Columbia. Described as new are Talpapellis gen. & sp. nov., Arthonia lethariicola sp. nov., Bryoscyphus lichenicola sp. nov., Echinothecium aerophillum sp. nov., Homostegia dermatocarpae sp. nov., Lichenoconium edgewoodensis sp. nov., and Sphaerellothecium gowardii sp. nov. Nineteen of the previously described species are new to North America and an additional 19 are new to British Columbia.
10.2307/3241808|Ramalina intermedia has a North American distribution ranging from New Brunswick south along the eastern seaboard, inland throughout Quebec and Ontario, and has been reported from the Northwest Territories and Alberta. This species is abundant in the Great Lakes region, and has been collected in mountainous areas of Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona. This species has a single chemical race in North America containing sekikaic, homosekikaic, and usnic acids and variably possessing atranorin and an unknown. Fertile thalli are reported from North America. A new species, Ramalina petrina, is described from the Appalachian Mountains. This small sorediate species is characterized by conspicuous terminal soralia borne on recurved lobe tips. Ramalina petrina is PD+ and contains protocetraric acid, usnic acid, and atranorin.
10.2307/3243945|The "dwarfed plant" of Hypnodendron auricomum is a distinct species, Hypnodendron opacum. It differs from H. auricomum in the much smaller plant, smaller stipe and branch leaves, strong proration of laminal cells of stipe leaves, narrower theca, larger spores, and the exclusively epiphytic habit. A refinement of H. auricomum itself is now needed: Hypnodendron auricomum subsp. sumatranum is newly recognized.
10.2307/3244412|Male plants of Cyrtomnium hymenophylloides are described in detail for the first time. They differ from female plants only in gametangial features, particularly in having a splash-cup perigonium similar to that of male plants in most dioicous species of Mniaceae. The isomorphic paraphyses of male and female plants are unique within the Mniaceae. Male plants producing perigonia were found in nine herbarium specimens from parts of northeastern Alaska and arctic Canada that may have served as refugia during the Wisconsinan (Pleistocene) ice-sheet maximum. Female plants are much more common, occurring in arctic Alaska and Canada, Greenland, and southward in the Canadian Rocky Mountains, and in parts of eastern Canada to the Catskill Mountains of New York. No sporophytes have been found in North America and Greenland, and outside this area only one sporophyte is known. Stems of this moss are shown to fragment into leafy pieces of variable size, and the subsequent dispersal of these, and the initiation of new growth from axillary and apical buds, appear to be the principal means of reproduction. We assume that wind is the major dispersal agent in the Arctic, but water and gravity may play a role in local dispersal in forested regions of the northeastern United States where the species displays a relictual distribution.
10.2307/3241678|Lichen farinaceus L., the basionym of Ramalina farinacea (L.) Ach., is lectotypified by a specimen containing protocetraric and usnic acids from the Linnean Herbarium.
20110872|This paper treats 12 Candelariella species occurring in western North America characterized by having lecanorine apothecia and 8-spored asci. Six new names are proposed: C. aggregata, C. californica, C. complanata, C. corallizoides, C. deppeanae and C. immarginata. Candelariella terrigena and C. deflexa are treated as synonyms of C. citrina and C. aurella, respectively. Candelariella kansuensis is newly reported from North America. Distribution maps for western North America are presented for all species. Candelariella citrina, C. rosulans and C. terrigena are lectotypified. A key to Candelariella in western North America is presented.
10.2307/3243410|Sphagnum aureum sp. nov. (section Sphagnum) is reported from high elevation peatlands in Costa Rica. This species is similar to S. alegrense and S. magellanicum, but differs from these species in branch leaf, stem leaf and cortical cell morphology.
20061065|A hornwort classification that recognizes 11 genera, comprising a hierarchy of two classes, three orders, and four families is proposed. The updated checklist of these byrophytes for North America has been expanded from 11 species in three genera to 17 species in five genera. Application of the genus name Anthoceros in the traditional sense is clarified.
10.2307/3241800|A reclassification of the Leucodontaceae recognizes four subfamilies and three tribes: Alsioideae (Fleisch.) Broth. emend. Manuel; Felipponoideae Manuel, subfam. nov.; Forsstroemioideae Manuel, subfam. nov.; Leucodontoideae, Dozyeae Manuel, tribus nov., Leucodonteae, and Pterogonieae Fleisch. emend. Manuel. A key to the subfamilies and tribes is presented. Alsia Sull. and Dendroalsia Britt., two monotypic genera endemic to western North America which constitute the subfamily Alsioideae, are reviewed. Descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps, and a key to the genera are presented in addition to notes on phytogeography and nomenclature. Alsia californica var. flagellifera Ren. & Card. is reduced to the synonymy of A. californica (Hook. & Arnott) Sull. Alsia macounii Kindb. ex Broth., Dendroalsia donna Britt. ex Fleisch., and Leptodontis Sull. ex Broth. are nomina nuda. Lectotypes for Neckera californica Hook. & Arnott and Neckera abietina Hook. are designated. Dendroalsia abietina (Hook. & Arnott) Britt. is reported new to Alaska and tentatively to Colorado.
20110903|Neogrollea notabilis, Jackiella curvata, Goebelobryum unguiculatum and Herzogianthus vaginatus are four leafy liverworts found in New Zealand whose phylogenetic positions are uncertain. To determine their positions, we sequenced three chloroplast genes, atpB, rbcL and rps4, from these taxa, compiled a 3-gene data set for 78 taxa representing all major lineages of liverworts and analyzed the data using both maximum likelihood and parsimony methods. Our results confirmed placement of Neogrollea within the Lepidoziaceae, but did not support the creation of the suborder Neogrollineae Engel & Braggins. The monogeneric family status of Jackiella was supported by our study, but the family is not related to the Adelanthaceae, Cephaloziaceae or Cephaloziellaceae. Instead, our results suggest that it should be included in a large marsupium-bearing clade of liverworts. Goebelobryum unguiculatum is confirmed to be a member of the Acrobolbaceae. Finally, our study showed that Herzogianthus was unrelated to Chaetophyllopsis, and should be taken out of Chaetophyllopsidaceae and placed in its own new family. The genus is perhaps related to Ptilidium and Neotrichocolea, which are positioned between the simple thalloid and leafy liverworts.
10.2307/3241912|In addition to lipids the spores of Dicranum scoparium L. Hedw. contain granular storage material, which is stained by mercuric bromphenol blue and digested by pepsin treatment. When these proteins are degraded during germination, it is evident that they are vacuole-bound and similar to the protein bodies of higher plants. There are few starch grains in the chloroplasts of ungerminated spores. The amount of starch increases at the beginning of germination and decreases during later stages. These changes are accompanied by changes in the chlorophyll and protein content of the sporelings.
10.2307/3242321|Ditrichum falcifolium Bartr. & Dix. is shown to be closely similar to Dicranum aucklandicum Dix. (= Holodontium falcatum (R.Br.ter.) Wijk & Marg.) but differs in lacking a clearly defined group of alar cells. The new name Dicranum pseudofalcatum Seppelt is proposed to accommodate the species.
3244746|The breeding system of Fossombronia foveolata and genetic differentiation in the F. foveolata species complex were studied using Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Polymorphism values for cloned siblings were not significantly different from those obtained from amplification of identical DNA samples. These results support the hypothesis that sporophytes display high levels of homozygosity. Nevertheless, low levels of genetic differentiation were detected between F. foveolata populations from spatially separated sites in southern Illinois. Monomorphism among siblings, low levels of polymorphism among southern Illinois populations, sporophyte production in clonal cultures maintained in an environmental chamber, growth of cultured clonal mats to sizes comparable to field populations, and short sperm and spore dispersal distances suggest that F. foveolata populations are probably established from single founder events and are maintained through inbreeding and vegetative reproduction. Degree of genetic relatedness among F. foveolata from Illinois, F. foveolata from Texas, F. cristula from Indiana, F. japonica from Japan, F. lamellata from Arkansas, F. porphyrorhiza from Brazil, F. pusilla from California, and F. texana from Texas were also estimated from RAPD data. UPGMA cluster analyses of several different similarity matrices resolved the following three species groups 1) F. foveolata, F. lamellata, F cristula group; 2) F. japonica, F. porphyrorhiza, F. pusilla group; and 3) F. texana. These groupings are consistent with those based on analyses of morphological characters, as well as other molecular data sets.
10.2307/3240510|Funaria hygrometrica occurs on a variety of disturbed sites in nature, especially on burned substrates. Under controlled conditions it grows well on a relatively wide range of nutrient combinations and concentrations. In the absence of any one of the macronutrients, it grows poorly and exhibits rather distinct symptoms of nutrient deficiency. Growth and development are discussed in relation to the ratios of concentrations of nutrient ions. Except at extreme values, the pH of the nutrient media seems to have little direct effect on the moss. The micronutrient requirements are also briefly considered although their study presents problems in technique.
10.2307/3244439|A complete list of the liverworts and hornworts known from Belize, comprising 49 genera and 65 species, is presented. Twenty-two genera and 30 species are new to Belize, and Calypogeia lophocoleoides Steph. is new to Central America.
10.2307/3240749|Forty-eight mosses are reported for the first time from Eau Claire County, Wisconsin, and Philonotis longiseta (Rich.) Britt. is cited as new to the state.
10.2307/3243700| Syrrhopodon armatissimus is described new from Madagascar. It is closely related to S. armatus Mitt., but differs in its strikingly tall leaf cell papillae simple or divided at their tips. Several other Calymperaceae from the general region of Madagascar are discussed, including Calymperes crassilimbatum Besch.; the suite of forms comprising S. asper Mitt., S. gardneri (Hook.) Schwaegr., and S. rodriguezii Ren. & Card.; S. graminifolius Ren. & Card.; S. prolifer var. hispidocostatus (Ren. & Card. in Ren.) Orbn & Reese; and Mitthyridium fasciculatum (Hook. & Grev.) Robins. Attention is called to the seeming concentration of heavily armed taxa of Syrrhopodon in the Madagascar region. 
10.2307/3242022|Lichen and moss abundance was documented at the U.S. Desert Biome validation sites in the Chihuahuan, Sonoran and Mohave Deserts. Altogether 61 lichens and 18 mosses were sampled from all three sites. Species numbers ranged from 17 lichens at the Mohave site to 48 lichens at the Chihuahuan site and from 2 mosses at the Chihuahuan site to 15 mosses at the Sonoran site. Lichen cover ranged from a low of 0.01% on the bajada of the Mohave site to a high of 8.13% on the north slopes at the Chihuahuan site. Moss cover ranged from zero on the Mohave and Chihuahuan bajada sites to 0.27% on the north slope of the Sonoran site. Lichen biomass is estimated to range from 0.888 g/m
10.2307/3241207|One hundred and thirty moss species (including 20 new to Labrador) were collected within reach of spray from four subarctic waterfalls in central Labrador. The floristics, ecology, and phytogeography of these species are discussed, along with possible reasons for the enriched bryoflora of spray zones. Some northern and some southern mosses appear to be restricted to spray zones in central Labrador, but the majority of spray zone species belong to a wide-ranging north temperate-subarctic element. The spray zone environment tends to favour snow-bed mosses, the more calciphilic mosses, and hydrophilic mosses, and allows bryophytes to successfully outcompete lichens as the dominant cryptogams in these restricted sites. Polytrichastrum alpinum (Hedw.) G. L. Smith var. brevifolium (R. Br.) Brassard is a new combination.
10.2307/3242565|Bryoerythrophyllum andersonianum, sp. nov., and B. bolivianum (C. Muell.) Zand. are reported from Cofre de Perote, a volcanic peak in the state of Veracruz, Mexico. The latter species is disjunctive to a narrow range in the Andes of Bolivia and Peru.
3244886| We examined biotic soil crust cover and composition at nine shrub-steppe sites in central and eastern Oregon, U.S.A. One pair of livestock-grazed and excluded transects was established at each site. Data were collected on the cover of biotic soil crust and vascular plant species, soil surface pH and electrical conductivity, and other environmental variables. Using gradient analysis, we found that differences in community composition among sites were most strongly related to soil pH, electrical conductivity (EC), and Calcareous Index Value (CIV; a scale representing the relative calcium carbonate content of soils). Other important variables included precipitation, elevation, aspect, and temperature. We found total crust cover to be highest at sites with lower pH, EC, and CIV. Dominant species differed markedly between the more calcareous sites with higher pH, and the less calcareous, lower pH sites. Livestock exclusion was not an important gradient in the ordination of these data, being overshadowed by the strong soil chemistry and climate gradients. However, overall community composition of soil crust species was different between grazed and long-ungrazed sites (p = 0.02, Blocked Multi-Response Permutation Procedure). Comparison of grazed and long-ungrazed sites revealed lower cover of biotic crusts, nitrogen-fixing lichens, crust-dominated soil surface roughness, and lower species richness in the grazed transects. There was more bare ground in the grazed transects, on average (p  0.02 for all, two-tailed paired t-tests). Our results suggested that total bunchgrass cover was higher within exclosures, but conclusive evidence was lacking (p = 0.1, two-tailed paired t-test). Vascular plant composition, cover, richness, shrub cover, electrical conductivity, and pH were not different between the grazed and livestock-excluded transects. Thus, livestock-related reductions in cover and richness of biotic soil crusts were apparent while significant impacts to vascular plants were not obvious. We conclude that 1) biotic soil crusts are sensitive indicators of disturbance and 2) there are strong compositional differences in shrub steppe crust communities of Oregon, which are correlated with regional soil and climate gradients. 
10.2307/3242370|Schofieldia, a new hepatic, has been found in British Columbia, Canada, and Washington State, U.S.A. Principal features of Schofieldia include: scattered rhizoids; variable underleaves; lack of oil-bodies; 2-celled, elliptical, green gemmae; seta with 8 epidermal and 4 inner cell rows; and 2(-3)-stratose capsule wall. Most of these features are common in the Cephaloziaceae, and it seems probable that Schofieldia belongs in this family.
10.2307/3244208|This study is the first step towards a modern, thorough treatment of the genus Usnea in Mexico. Morphological, anatomical, and chemical features as well as distribution of seventeen Mexican pendulous species collected in temperate forests (1300 to 4000 m) are described. Usnea firma Mot., U. malmei Mot., U. scabrata Nyl. s. lat., and U. subscabrosa Motyka are new records for the country. Usnea goniodes (Stirt.) Motyka is new for the American continent. The following synonyms are proposed: Usnea ceratina Ach. (Syn. nov. U. solida Motyka), U. filipendula Stirton (Syn. nov. U. sublaxa Motyka), U. himantodes (Syn. nov. U. sericea Motyka), U. malmei Motyka (Syn. nov. U. sorediata (Zahlbr.) Motyka), and U. mexicana Vainio (Syn. nov. U. duriuscula Motyka). Usnea sanctaeritae Clerc & Herrera-Campos sp. nov. and U. vitrea Clerc & Herrera-Campos sp. nov. are described. A key for Mexican pendulous species of Usnea is provided.
10.2307/3244052|Tortella knightii (Mitt.) Broth. occurs in Tierra del Fuego, Argentina, placing the species among the number that share a high-latitude South American, high-latitude Australasian distribution.
10.2307/3242733|Thirty-five species belonging to ten genera of Caliciales are reported for Maine north of Mount Katahdin. Twenty-three are new records for the state and one, Chaenothecopsis brevipes Tibell, is a new record for the Northern Hemisphere. An identification key is presented as are diagnoses and information on the taxonomy and ecology of each species.
3244667|The lichen Punctelia semansiana, common and widely distributed in North America and differing from P. hypoleucites by conidial size and substrate ecology, is identical to P. graminicola (B. de Lesd.) Egan, comb. nov. Authentic material of the older epithet, thought to have been destroyed but recently discovered at New Mexico's College of Santa Fe, permits the nomenclatural correction.
10.2307/3241445|A short history of the American Bryological and Lichenological Society Hepatic Herbarium is presented. The location, condition, and membership use of the herbarium and its associated library are discussed.
20061116|The ecological amplitudes, associated lichens, and substrates of fifteen regionally rare coastal epiphytic lichens (Bryoria pseudocapillaris, B. spiralifera, B. subcana, Erioderma sorediatum, Heterodermia leucomela, Hypotrachyna revoluta, Leioderma sorediatum, Leptogium brebissonii, Niebla cephalota, Pannaria rubiginosa, Pseudocyphellaria perpetua, Pyrrhospora quernea, Ramalina pollinaria, Teloschistes flavicans, and Usnea hesperina) in 85 randomly-selected and 49 purposively-selected 0.04 ha circular plots along a 5 km wide strip of Pacific coastline from San Francisco Bay to the U.S.-Canadian border are reported. Logistic regression, used to identify environmental variables most indicative of suitable habitat, indicated that small changes in climate and forest type strongly affected probability of occurrence for many species. Threats to coastal lichens, including climate change, are discussed. The findings can be used to aid discovery of additional populations and manage existing habitat.
10.2307/3240698|Of the 23 species of lichens reported herein from the province of Buenos Aires, Parmelia consors Nyl. and Caloplaca scabrida Magn. are new to the known flora of Argentina. Five other species are reported as new to the province. Some of the records represent considerable southward extensions of known ranges.
3244655|Bryophytes may be more appropriate than vascular plants for testing hypotheses relating to plant reproductive biology due to their relatively simple structure. Nevertheless, they have rarely been used for this purpose, and remain poorly known with respect to reproductive biology. It is, for instance, still not known if bryophytes generally exhibit reproductive costs. We addressed the cost of producing reproductive structures in a bryophyte species, the clonal moss Hylocomium splendens, by following a SE Norwegian boreal spruce forest population in which sporophytic female mature segments grew intermingled with segments devoid of sporophytes for five years. By comparing segment sub-populations with and without sporophytes, respectively, we demonstrated that production of sporophytes had significant costs in terms of less favorable size development of daughter segments, lower branching frequency, and higher risk of not producing new annual segments. From the observed patterns of size development and branching, we identify the late phase of sporophyte development (when the capsule expands and ripens, and spores are produced) as the most expensive developmental stage in terms of demands for resources from the source gametophyte segment. Although costs of sexual reproduction have been demonstrated with certainty only for a few bryophytes, it may well turn out to be easier to demonstrate for bryophyte species than for vascular plant species.
10.2307/3244174|The effects of short wave ultraviolet (UV-B) radiation on metabolic parameters and cellular vitality in leaves of Polytrichum commune under subarctic conditions were compared. Contents of carbohydrates (glucose, sucrose, and starch) and of pigments (chlorophyll, carotenoids, UV-screening pigments) were determined in relation to elevated UV-B regimes in a greenhouse experiment. Although macroscopically the leaves remained intact, a simulated ozone decline of 15% increased sucrose and glucose synthesis while sucrose was reduced under high UV-B (25% ozone reduction). Changes in carbohydrates are also due to seasonal variation, but can be distinguished from obvious UV-B and greenhouse laboratory effects. These patterns are accompanied by increasing degradation of cellular organelles like chloroplasts and nuclei in assimilation lamellae and other parenchyma. UV-screening pigments were not enhanced by supplemental UV-B. Changes in chlorophyll content were not an adequate marker for UV-B effects.
10.2307/3242672|Two species of Pottiaceae are described from Mexico: Scopelophila norrisii sp. nov. and Tortula eckeliae sp. nov.
10.2307/3240668|Peltigera canina is capable of inhibiting the germination of grass seeds. As the sulfur dioxide content of the atmosphere increases, the inhibitory capacity of P. canina decreases.
10.2307/3241282|Participants on the American Bryological and Lichenological Society foray in August, 1967, collected 119 lichen and 63 moss taxa from selected areas in western Louisiana and eastern Texas. Thirty lichen taxa are new for Louisiana and 16 are new for Texas.
10.2307/3241802|The corticolous lichen communities on Acer rubrum, Quercus borealis, Ulmus americana, and Pinus strobus were examined along transects in the vicinity of a sulfate paper mill in Mosinee, Wisconsin. The lichens were most drastically affected northeast of the mill where a normal crustose lichen community persisted to within 6.5-10 km of the paper mill, a normal foliose community was observed at a distance of 13-16 km, but a normal fruticose community did not occur within 21 km NE of the mill. This distribution pattern corresponded with reduced atmospheric SO
10.2307/3240742|A new chemical variant of Parmelia furfuracea (L.) Ach., was found by chromatographic analysis among 260 thalli of a collection from Spain. Most of these plants produce atranorin and either physodic acid or olivetoric acid, a finding in agreement with previous reports for the species in Europe. Two thalli, however, produced both olivetoric acid and physodic acid thus making P. furfuracea the second species in which a depside and its corresponding depsidone have been demonstrated. The new strain is of biosynthetic and taxonomic interest. The chemical relationship of P. furfuracea in North America, a strain producing atranorin and lecanoric acid, may suggest the need for a taxonomic re-evaluation of the New World population.
20110814|The contributions of both biotic and abiotic factors to the "urban" effect on the ecology of epiphytic macrolichens of the greater Cincinnati, Ohio metropolitan area were evaluated. Abundance, as percent cover, and several diversity indices were used to evaluate the distribution of these lichens among urban and non-urban (both rural and suburban) sites. The measures of diversity examined in this study include species richness, the Shannon-Wiener index, evenness, Simpson's index and the Index of Atmospheric Purity (IAP). A significant difference in abundance and diversity among the eleven study sites was established. This significance was maintained when the sites were grouped into urban vs. non-urban classes. It was found that the diversity of the epiphytic lichens examined in this study was associated with tree species, tree size and annual vehicle traffic, but not with human population density of the study site, or side of the tree observed (cardinal direction). Finally a comparative review was performed of epiphytic urban lichens as reported in a sampling of published surveys from North America.
20110758|A new species of lichenized ascomycete in the genus Bactrospora is described from the Pacific Northwest of North America, bringing to two the total number of Bactrospora species known from this region. Bactrospora cascadensis is so far known only from the snowy high-elevation forests in the Cascades of Washington State. This species is characterized by a pinkish to yellowish thallus, spores intact within the ascus but usually fragmenting into short chains outside the ascus, and an exciple and hypothecium that are K/IKI+ blue.
10.2307/3240514|The distribution of Barbella pendula includes Louisiana, Mexico, Japan, and China. Barbella elongata Williams, endemic to the Philippines, is recognized as a good species. The range of Barbella asperifolia Card. is extended to include Java, southern India, Ceylon, and Formosa, as well as Japan.
10.2307/3243825|A preliminary survey of the moss vegetation of Buen Suceso Bay in Eastern Fuegian Territory (Argentina) is presented, describing typical moss communities, life-forms, and habitats, together with moss-vascular plant associations which are representative of the Fuegian Nothofagus evergreen forests as a whole. Fifty-five percent of the moss vegetation is found within the forests, the richest substrate being the forest floor. The remainder (45%) is found in open areas outside the forests, mainly concentrated in bogs and coastal rock outcrops. Based on studies of field collections, 118 moss taxa are recorded from the area. A total of 108 are newly reported to Buen Suceso Bay and 12 taxa are new to the Fuegian Archipelago.
10.2307/3243098|Six species of Frullania (Frullaniaceae; Hepaticae) were recognized on Lord Howe Island (Australia). Four are endemic to the island and three of these are new species. The remaining two are F. ericoides (Nees) Mont. (pantropical) and F. falciloba (Hook. & Tayl.) Lehm. (Australasian). The Frullania flora of Lord Howe Island seems to be most closely related to that of SE Australia, although it shows a high endemism.
10.2307/3242928|Twelve species of lichens were recorded as epiphytes on the trunks of Pinus contorta Dougl., P. albicaulis Englm. and Abies lasiocarpa (Hook.) Nutt. in the lodgepole pine zone of Yellowstone National Park. All 12 species were on A. lasiocarpa; nine were on P. albicaulis, and five were on P. contorta. The most frequent lichen species were Lecanora piniperda Korb., Parmelia exasperatula Nyl., and Bryoria lanestris (Ach.) Brodo & Hawksw. Lichens were most frequent more than two meters above the ground.
10.2307/3241278|Radula (sect. Cladoradula) castlei from Venezuela is described and figured. Additions are made to Castle's list of Radula species. The names of Radula sections as adapted by Castle are revised and the majority validated by Latin diagnoses and designation of a type species.
10.2307/3243401|Laboratory tests were done to determine the antimicrobial activity of lichen secondary substances known to influence the feeding behavior of the lichen herbivore, Pallifera varia. Antibiotic test disks were prepared using acetone extracts of two lichens preferred (Aspicilia gibbosa and Lasallia papulosa) and two lichens avoided (Flavoparmelia baltimorensis and Xanthoparmelia cumberlandia) by the herbivore. These disks were placed on nutrient agar plates inoculated with various bacteria. The lichen extracts consistently inhibited gram-positive bacteria used in the assays, and the order of effectiveness was the same as it had been against the herbivore. Pure lichen substances were also found to vary in effectiveness in these assays. These results suggest that lichen secondary substances can defend lichens against attack by both herbivores and microorganisms; however, they are apparently not designed to defend specifically against either.
10.2307/3242186|Mineral capital in epiphytic lichens varies considerably from forest to forest depending primarily on the biomass of lichens present and can be at least as high as 27 kg ha
3244145|Study of the morphology and chemistry in a large series of specimens from southern Africa has resulted in the recognition of ten new species of Neofuscelia and one new species of Paraparmelia. Additional notes on the chemistry, morphology, or distribution are given for 40 other species, and one new combination is made.
20061070|The role of substrate diversity in forest ecosystems in maintaining bryophyte diversity is frequently acknowledged in the bryological literature, but there are few large-scale studies that attempt to disentangle the effect of substrate type and temporal features. We investigated the interaction between substrate type and forest age, which is a contentious issue in landscapes managed for wood production. We studied three age classes, 1-18 years, 33-67 years, and 'old growth' forest aged more than 110 years. We investigated the species distribution of bryophytes growing on 15 vascular species, logs, fallen branches, soil, rocks, upturned root bases, stumps, roots, and dead trees. A total of 49 substrate type-age class groups were sampled. Many bryophyte species were found only to occur on one substrate type, but these substrate types were found in more than one forest age class. A number of bryophyte species were restricted to a group of like substrate types, for example Neckera pennata, Calyptopogon mnioides, and Daltonia splachnoides were found only on 'vertical' substrate types-Acacia dealbata, Pomaderris apetala, and fallen branches in 33-67 year old forest. There was evidence for a number of bryophyte species preferring logs in forest aged 33-67 years with most of these species also preferring old growth logs. Eucalyptus obliqua trees of 33-67 year old forest and old growth forest supported many of the same preferential bryophyte species, unlike E. regnans trees. A number of these same eucalypt-dwelling bryophyte species were positively associated with fallen branches, logs, and soil in both forest aged 33-67 years and old growth forest. Under current forest management, there is no specific prescription for retention of any substrate type. Coupled with the current 80-100 year harvest rotation time, the bryophyte species may be at risk of exclusion from wood production areas.
10.2307/3243122|SEM study of 5 arctic alpine species of Solorina shows that each species has a distinctive spore coat pattern. S. spongiosa, often thought to be an ecological variant of S. saccata, differs from that species in its spore pattern.
3244129|Old conifer forests in the Pacific Northwest have a wide range of microhabitats induced by canopy structure and substrate characteristics. We used the Wind River Canopy Crane to sample lichens and bryophytes throughout the spectrum of habitats available to epiphytes. Of the 111 species found in 72 sample units, 97 were lichens and 14 were bryophytes. Epiphyte communities showed marked variation with respect to height in the canopy, bark vs. wood, degree of sheltering, and stem diameter. Of these factors, height in the canopy was most strongly related to epiphyte communities. Furthermore, the top two meters of the tallest trees hosted a diverse assemblage of both rare species (Tholurna dissimilis) and weedy, nitrophilous species (Candelaria concolor, Hypogymnia tubulosa, Parmelia sulcata), presumably induced by birds delivering lichen propagules and nutrients. Ten species were more frequent on bare wood than bark, including Ophioparma rubricosa, Letharia vulpina, Placynthiella spp., Ptychographa xylographoides, Trapeliopsis flexuosa, and Xylographa parallela. Species richness was highly variable, even within habitats. The only factor found related to species richness was height in the canopy, the middle and upper layers each having about twice the species per sample unit as lower in the canopy.
10.2307/3241975|The Antarctic Sarconeurum tortelloides S.W.Greene is transferred to Tortella fragilis var. tortelloides (S.W.Greene) comb. & stat. nov. and is reported from high altitudes in Hawaii. In a humid culture chamber, Hawaiian plants produce new branches bearing leaves similar to those of Tortella tortuosa (Hedw.) Limpr.
10.2307/3242905|The hypothesis that dioicous mosses produce sporophytes less frequently than monoicous mosses was tested by sampling populations in two contrasting habitats. In a dry aspen forest the mean percentages of populations with sporophytes were 75.9 for monoicous and 19.3 for dioicous species, while in a wet coniferous forest the means were 84.1 for monoicous and 12.3 for dioicous species. Dioicous species with antheridia borne in splash cups showed significantly higher sporophyte production than those without splash cups. However, dioicous species with male plants dwarfed and epiphytic on female plants did not show significantly greater sporophyte production. Differences in sporophyte production between habitats were minimal.
10.2307/3244071|In the Oregon Cascades, epiphytic cyanolichens are abundant in old-growth forest canopies, but they accumulate very slowly in young forests. We evaluated whether epiphytic cyanolichens require old growth and/or thick, underlying moss mats to achieve normal rates of growth and mortality. We transplanted over one thousand mature thalli of two old-growth associated species (Lobaria oregana and Pseudocyphellaria rainierensisj into the crowns of Douglasfir trees in thirteen forest stands representing four age classes: old-growth (400-700 yr), mature (140-150 yr), young (35-40 yr), and recent clearcut. Wooden racks were used instead of trees in the clearcuts. Half of the cyanolichen thalli were transplanted onto thick moss mats and half were transplanted onto bare bark. After one year, both species grew at least as well in younger forests as they did in old growth (20 to 30% increase in mass), but growth rates were significantly lower in clearcuts. Mortality rates were very low (<10%) in young, mature, and old-growth forests, but high (50 to 90%) in clearcuts. Pseudocyphellaria rainierensis grew significantly better on moss than on bare bark (30 vs 23% increase in mass). Since epiphytic cyanolichens can survive and grow in a broad range of forest age classes, silvicultural treatments that facilitate their colonization of young forests have great conservation potential.
10.2307/3241351|A new tridepside, 4-O-methylgyrophoric acid, was extracted from a Jamaican collection of Lobaria cfr. dissecta that also contained gyrophoric acid. The structure of the new product was proven by identification of its methyl ester as tenuiorin by direct comparison with a sample of the latter extracted from L. linita. Microchemical studies on 177 herbarium specimens of 18 taxa of Lobaria showed the presence of 4-O-methylgyrophoric acid, either as a constant component or as an accessory but always accompanying gyrophoric acid in L. crassior, L. dentata, L. cfr. dissecta, L. erosa, and L. quercizans. In addition to the tridepsides gyrophoric acid, 4-O-methylgyrophoric acid, and tenuiorin, the following substances were detected: atranorin, constictic acid, norstictic acid, scrobiculin, stictic acid, usnic acid, thelephoric acid, and several unidentified substances.
10.2307/3241475|Lecidea carbonoidea Thoms., sp. nov., Lecidea shushanii Thoms., sp. nov., and Lecanora concinnum Thoms., sp. nov. are described from the north slope of Alaska.
10.2307/3244058|Two hundred nineteen taxa of lichens including one lichen parasite are reported from Adak Island in the central Aleutian Islands, Alaska. Stereocaulon leprocephalum is new to North America; Caloplaca ferrugineofusca and Verrucaria ditmarsica are new to Alaska. The lichen flora is dominated by wide-ranging arctic-alpine and boreal species; a coastal element is moderately represented, while amphi-Beringian species form a minor element. This phytogeographic pattern is very similar to that of Attu Island, the westernmost Aleutian Island.
10.2307/3241781|Nineteen and eighteen free amino acids, respectively, were determined qualitatively and quantitatively in the lichens Cladonia pyxidata and Peltigera sp.
3244613|Arctoa fulvella (Dicks.) Bruch & Schimp. is reported for the first time in the Southern Hemisphere from Isla Navarino (Chile) in the Tierra del Fuego archipelago. The species (and genus) is established as another bipolar moss disjunct and its global range is reviewed and mapped. Bipolar disjuncts in mosses are placed into two categories: taxa with intermediate stations in tropical and subtropical regions and those without intermediate occurrences in intertropical regions. Trans-American bipolar mosses belonging to each of these two groups are listed.
10.2307/3243216|Multiform tuber-like gemmae occur on the rhizoids of some populations of Weissia controversa from the central and southern United States but are seemingly lacking in other populations examined. The gemmae are present year-round and occur in colonies both with and without sporophytes, from sea level to 2,388 m.
10.2307/3243670|Seven mosses are added to the flora of Alabama and seven are reported for a second time.
10.2307/3243251|The occurrence of the genus Timmia in the Southern Hemisphere is established on the basis of specimens from the Nelson area of South Island, New Zealand. The character states of these plants clearly indicate that they are of the section Norvegica and T. norvegica s. lat. However, size of the upper laminal cells is intermediate between T. norvegica var. norvegica and T. norvegica var. excurrens. The populations were growing in seepy crevices of highly calcareous rock outcrops, as is typical of many Northern Hemisphere populations. Timmia norvegica presently appears to be a bipolar disjunct and its occurrence in New Zealand is explained best by long-distance dispersal.
10.2307/3241555|The new genus, Trichoramalina (Ramalinaceae), comprises two species formerly included in the genus Ramalina. Trichoramalina differs from Ramalina sen. str. principally by the presence of cilia, an extremely thick cortex, and black pycnidia. Both species of Trichoramalina are restricted to coastal fog zone habitats; T. crinita in southern California and Baja California, and T. melanothrix in South Africa. No medullary lichen substances are known in Trichoramalina. Usnic acid is present in the medulla of both species.
10.2307/3243777|Usnic acid-deficient thalli of the lichen Arctoparmelia centrifuga (L.) Hale, previously known only from Fennoscandia, are reported here from New Brunswick and Newfoundland. Pigment-deficient and pigment-containing thalli growing side by side in New Brunswick show no detectable differences in morphology, reproductive state, or lichenicolous microfungi. The Fennoscandian and eastern Canadian populations of typical A. centrifuga contain different combinations of unidentified fatty acids. Their respective usnic acid-deficient counterparts are similarly distinct, providing strong evidence that the pigment-deficient chemotypes originated separately on the two continents, rather than from a common ancestor.
3244639| The type material of Plagiothecium drepanophyllum Renauld & Cardot from Cocos Island off the Pacific coast of Costa Rica is re-assessed, and some details of its gametophyte are illustrated. It is inseparable from, and thus synonymous with Lepidopilum scabrisetum (Schwgr.) Steere. Accordingly the correct name for the widely distributed and most common Neotropical species of Plagiothecium, which has so far been called P. drepanophyllum, is P. standleyi E. B. Bartram, described from Guatemala. The type material of P. standleyi is briefly assessed and some of its diagnostic characters are illustrated. 
20061071|This study examined bryophyte community composition in relation to microsite and microenvironmental variation at different scales in three conifer-dominated stands in the boreal forest of Alberta, Canada. We documented bryophyte assemblage on specific microsite types (physiognomic forms providing substrates for moss colonization: logs, stumps, tree bases, undisturbed patches of forest floor, disturbed patches of forest floor), and at coarser scales: mesosites (625 m plots within stands), and stands (10 ha). Patterns of variation in bryophyte composition arising from the microsite sampling were clearly related to microsite type and, for woody substrates, to microsite quality (decay class; hardwood vs. softwood). Microenvironment (moisture, pH, temperature, light) also had some influence on bryophyte composition of woody microsite types. Forest floor moisture, pH, and light were related to bryophyte composition of undisturbed patches of forest floor while forest floor moisture and temperature were significant correlates for disturbed forest floor. At the coarser-scale, surface moisture and forest floor moisture were related to bryophyte assemblage of mesosites; this was partially reflective of differences among stands. We conclude that bryophyte species composition in these forests is related to a hierarchy of factors including fine scale variation in the type and quality of available microsites along with microenvironmental variation at different scales. Management efforts to preserve bryophyte biodiversity will need to incorporate this complexity.
10.2307/3243783| Samples of an epiphytic lichen, Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl., were collected from 26 sites around the city of Thunder Bay in northwestern Ontario in the summer of 1987, and analyzed for Al, As, Cd, Cu, Fe, Hg, Pb, S and Zn. Overall levels of contaminants were low. Areas to the southwest of Thunder Bay had the highest levels of contaminants. The area to the west had the lowest values. The range of concentrations (g/g dry weight) was Al, 185-706; Fe, 114-691; S, 42-434; Zn, 7-92; Pb, 3.9-48; As, 0.9-7.1; Cu, 0.8-6.9; Hg, 0.6-5.8; Cd, 0.2-1.2. Correlation analyses indicate an inverse relationship between levels of pollutants and distance from Thunder Bay. The study shows that air quality assessment may be based on a single lichen species. 
41289810|Recent phylogenetic inferences indicate that Physcomitrella readeri is not closely related to P. patens. Consequently the genus Ephemerella was resurrected to accommodate the former. However, based on its type, Ephemerella has been merged with Ephemerum. The correct generic name for P. readeri should be Physcomitridium G. Roth, of which Ephemerella readeri Mll. Hal. is the type.
10.2307/3243593| The crustose lichen Koerberiella wimmeriana (Krb.) Stein was discovered from British Columbia, Oregon, and Alaska and represents a new genus for the continent. Some of the specimens are richly fertile and have a smooth, rimose-areolate thallus, but others represent the sterile morphotype with isidioid verrucae seen most often in Europe. One specimen was heavily parasitized by Sagediopsis aquatica (Stein) Triebel, also reported here as new for North America. 
10.2307/3240492| The genus Rechingerella J. Frhl., based on the single species R. macedonica, is considered to represent Weissia controversa Hedw. with infected archegonia. 
10.2307/3240520|Collections of the moss Leptodictyum riparium (Hedw.) Warnst. taken over several years from near Bonito Lake, New Mexico, were heavily parasitized by the fungus Stemphyllium botryosum Wallr. Masses of hyphae were imbedded in the central strand of the host stem with the numerous conidia erupting only from the axil of the leaves. This is the first report of a moss parasitized by this species of fungus.
10.2307/3242947|On the basis of sensitivity, cost, portability and time, the membrane permeability test was determined to be the most effective method for assessing SO
3244927| Hypogymnia arcuata and H. sachalinensis are described as new species of lichenized fungi from east Asia (Russia, China, and Japan). Closely related to H. fragillima, H. arcuata is separated from that species by the less frequently confluent holes in the lower surface, more broadly divergent branching, and the presence of 2-o-methylphysodic and 3-hydroxyphysodic acids by TLC. Formerly confused with the North American endemic H. duplicata, H. arcuata lacks the long, cascading lobes and physodalic and protocetraric acids of H. duplicata Hypogymnia sachalinensis has long been confused with the North American endemic H. enteromorpha under the name H. enteromorpha var. inactiva. Hypogymnia sachalinensis is smaller than H. enteromorpha, with appressed to imbricate, narrower lobes. Hypogymnia enteromorpha is unknown from Asia. 
10.2307/3242285|Riccardia tenuicostata Schiffn. is reported for the first time from Darjeeling (eastern Himalayas) and Nepal. The seta consists of 4 central and 12 peripheral cells. Oil-bodies in this liverwort are ovoid to elliptical, of the grape cluster type. There are 1-5 oil bodies in each cell of the thallus.
10.2307/3241668|The development of asci and spores was followed in Pertusaria velata (Turn.) Nyl., P. laevigata (Nyl.) Arn., P. pertusa (L.) Tuck., P. pustulata (Ach.) Duby, and P. alpina Hepp. In the one- and two-spored species (P. velata, P. laevigata, P. pertusa, P. pustulata) spore formation began after division of the fusion nucleus. Each spore could enclose one to four nuclei initially, fnd as the spore matured the nuclei divided until there were 100-200 per spore. The eight-spored species (P. alpina) initially formed eight uninucleate spores. The nucleus of each spore divided until each had approximately 25 nuclei. There was no evidence that the spindle apparatus took part in spore formation of the one- and two-spored species. Three basic types of ascus initials were found; a proposed evolutionary sequence of these is given. The development of P. laevigata differed from that of all other species investigated by an apparent seasonal production of asci and apothecia.
10.2307/3243157|Chromosome counts are reported for 15 species of Antarctic mosses belonging to 11 genera and eight families. The chromosome numbers for Andreaea depressinervis (n = 10), Andreaea gainii (n = 10), Chorisodontium aciphyllum (n = 12), Encalypta patagonica (n = 13), Conostomum magellanicum (n = 8), Calliergidium austro-stramineum (n = 22), and Calliergon sarmentosum (n = 11) are reported here for the first time.
10.2307/3242140| Triquetrella ferruginea (Schimp. ex Besch.) Thr. of Mexico is a new synonym of Didymodon fallax var. reflexus (Brid.) Zander, comb. nov. Triquetrella californica (Lesq.) Grout is morphologically similar but can be distinguished by color reactions to strong acids and bases. Bryoerythrophyllum calcareum (Thr.) Zander, comb. nov., and Bryoerythrophyllum inaequalifolium (Tayl.) Zander, comb. nov., are transfers from the genus Barbula based in part on the different acid-base color reactions of the genera Bryoerythrophyllum and Barbula. 
41289767|Hattorioceros (J. Haseg.) J. Haseg. is a monospecific genus of hornworts with a single species, H. striatisporus (J. Haseg.) J. Haseg., previously known only from the Western Himalayas and Fiji. Here we report this genus as a new addition for China from Xizang (Tibet). Some previously unknown morphological characters, such as the presence of a single chloroplast with a pyrenoid per cell and the number of antheridia per chamber are added to the generic description.
10.2307/3244361| Eight species of the genus Pertusaria are found in the Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas), two of which are here described as new: P. malvinae Messuti & A. W. Archer and P. salacinifera Messuti & A. W. Archer; P. alterimosa Darb., P. cerebrinula Zahlbr., P. erubescens (Hook. & Taylor) Nyl., P. macloviana Mll. Arg., P. perrimosa Nyl., and P. spegazzinii Mll. Arg. are reported from Falkland Islands. A key to the named species of Pertusaria on the Falkland Islands is given. 
10.2307/3240646|The ontogeny of the antheridium, archegonium, and sporophyte of Physcomitrium cyathicarpum, a common moss in Delhi, India, is given. The development of the antheridium is typical of that in other mosses. Early in ontogeny the archegonial primordium acts in a way similar to that of the antheridium and produces the stalk, after which the two-sided apical cell acquires three cutting facets and forms the archegonium proper. The young embryo is filamentous, with upper and basal apical cells. In the capsule only an outer air space is formed surrounding the spore sac. The peristome is absent. The foot of the sporophyte is haustorial in function because of very densely cytoplasmic cells of the peripheral layer. The plant seems to be a very reduced type as compared to the other members of the Funariaceae.
10.2307/3242717|Bryum warneum was recently collected in the Mingan Islands, Duplessis County, Quebec. It is reported from Europe, Africa and Asia, but is known from only one other North American locality, in Alaska.
10.2307/3242128|Events of meiosis subsequent to prophase are reported for a moss, Ditrichum pallidum. Condensed metaphase I bivalents are deployed along the equator of an open spindle consisting of continuous microtubules (MTs) and chromosomal MTs attached at kinetochores. Structurally simple spindle poles are located in the cytoplasm within opposite cleavage furrows between pairs of cytoplasmic lobes into which telophase II nuclei will be distributed. No discrete structure was observed associated with lobing or with spindle MT orientation. After a short inframeiotic interphase, meiosis II occurs in the undivided cytoplasm with spindles perpendicular to each other. Each of the poles is located near the plastid within each of the four lobes. Intersporal septa are formed by coalescence of vesicles simultaneously along cleavage planes predetermined by precocious lobing. Fused vesicle membranes contribute plasma membrane to the proximal surfaces of the spores, and the fibrillar contents of the vesicles, indistinguishable from the polysaccharide fibrils of the sporocyte wall, separate the young spores within the tetrad.
41289789|Previous research in phosphorus-fertilized Hawaiian montane forests has demonstrated that cyanolichens respond to elevated canopy phosphorus (P) availability by increasing in abundance and diversity; a similar but more muted response is seen for chlorolichens and mosses. In this study, I ask whether P also controls cyanolichen abundance in five unfertilized Hawaiian forests, four on the island of Kauai and one on Hawaii. In three of the four Kauai sites, trees which hosted abundant cyanolichens had significantly higher foliar P content than trees with sparse cyanolichen growth. In the Hawaii site, both foliar P and bark P content were significantly higher on high-cyanolichen cover trees (0.074% vs. 0.053% for leaves, p < 0.001, and 0.085% vs. 0.035% for bark, p < 0.001). Chlorolichen and bryophyte abundance were best predicted by cyanolichen abundance at three out of four of the Kauai sites. These results suggest that host tree P content may be an important factor controlling the abundance of cyanolichens in unfertilized Hawaiian forests, and that cyanolichens may facilitate colonization by chlorolichens and mosses.
3244619|Didymodon revolutus (Cardot) R. S. Williams, currently known from America, is reported for the first time from Asia (Yemen). The species is lectotypified, described, and illustrated. A map showing the pantropical distribution of this species with stations in southwestern and central U.S.A. is provided.
10.2307/3241939|Dry weights of capsules on sporophytes attached to gametophytes or explanted to agar increased with increasing light intensity. Dry weights of capsules of explants were greatly affected by the sugar content of the agar. The combination of intact explants, optimum sugar and high light intensity yielded capsules that were heavier than those obtained from sporophytes grown on gametophytes in greenhouse cultures. Capsule weights were more markedly affected by changing light intensities at low incident energies than at high incident energies. Capsule morphology was abnormal in total darkness because the spore sac failed to expand. Relatively low light intensity corrected morphological abnormalities. Photoreceptors involved in this response are possibly localized in the capsule. However, evidence indicates that photoreceptors contributing to increase in capsule weight under higher light intensities are not restricted to the capsule.
10.2307/3241263|Cryphaea floridensis is described as a new species from Collier County, Florida. It is differentiated from C. glomerata var. scabra Grout most clearly by having a single peristome of brown teeth and less roughened awns of the perichaetial leaves.
10.2307/3243291|Rhynchostegiella attenuata Bartr. from Ecuador is reduced to a synonym of Lindigia aciculata (Tayl.) Hampe. The two genera share several morphological features but differ in their habits, perichaetial leaves and exothecial cells.
10.2307/3242958| Pleuridium kieneri Bartr. is transferred to the genus Astomiopsis as A. kieneri (Bartr.) Delgadillo & Crdenas. 
20061067|Lantzius-Beninga (1815-1871), influenced by the earlier work of Hedwig (1730-1799), investigated the capsules of mosses, and more specifically characteristics of the peristome. He was the first to show that longitudinal sections of the capsule and peristome teeth at the capsule mouth provided characters useful to distinguish species. Limpricht (1888-1903) integrated the findings of Lantzius-Beninga into his species descriptions in Kryptogamen-Flora von Deutschland, sterreich und der Schweiz. The ideas of Lantzius-Beninga were later taken up by S. Edwards; J. Shaw and H. Robinson; and J. Shaw, L. Anderson and B. Mishler for taxonomic research, although the technique of sectioning the capsule and peristome has not been widely adopted by bryologists. Drawings of longitudinal sections through peristome teeth of selected species of Grimmia are presented here to illustrate specific differences between them using the technique of Lantzius-Beninga. We show that it is possible to correlate some variable characters of the gametophyte with the characters of the sporophyte, specifically longitudinal sections of the peristome and capsule at the capsule mouth, and to clearly separate taxa on the basis of peristome differences. A paragraph concerning sectioning methods is included.
10.2307/3243314|Three South American species of Sphagnum are described as new and provided with illustrations: S. algentryi (sect. Sphagnum,), S. engelii (sect. Cuspidata), and S. liesneri (sect. Subsecunda).
10.2307/3240812|Acaulon rufescens, Cyclodictyon varians, Fissidens manateensis, and Hypnum molluscum are reported as additions to the moss flora of Louisiana. Distributional records are given for eight other species in the state.
43188827|Cheiloleunea ladniata sp. nov. (Lejeuneaceae) from Southeastern Brazil is described and illustrated. The species is easily recognized by the dentate to laciniate leaf margins, a feature present only in two other species of Cheilolejeunea, C. nortsiae from Panama and Cuba, and C. lacerata from Brazil. A key summarizing the differences of the three species is presented.
10.2307/3243875|Seven species and one variety of mosses are reported from New Brunswick for the first time. A previously overlooked specimen of Orthotrichum gymnostomum Bruch ex Brid., collected in this province in 1884, is the only North American record of the species outside Newfoundland. Thirteen additional species are confirmed for New Brunswick or Nova Scotia. One of these, Micromitrium austinii Sull. in Aust., is known in Canada from a single specimen collected in Nova Scotia in 1947. Eleven taxa are shown to have been incorrectly reported for Nova Scotia or New Brunswick.
20110800|J. Eggers collected a Diplasiolejeunea in Costa Rica with peculiar lobe dentition, described here, as Diplasiolejeunea eggersii, new to science. The main differences from the related Diplasiolejeunea pluridentata and D. papilionacea are given. Because the latter species, from Venezuela, had only a very short protologue, an additional description is given here, based mainly on specimens collected from near the type locality.
10.2307/3243462| The new genus Ramboldia (Lecanoraceae) is described and its affinities to other genera in the family are discussed. Ramboldia is most closely related to Pyrrhospora, the most obvious difference being the absence of anthraquinone pigments in the apothecia of Ramboldia. Five species are included in the new genus: the chiefly lignicolous R. stuartii (Hampe) comb. nov. and R. subnexa (Stirton) comb. nov., the corticolous R. brunneocarpa sp. nov., and the saxicolous R. petraeoides (Nyl. ex Church. Bab. & Mitten) comb. nov and R. plicatula (Mll. Arg.) comb. nov. Lecidea lampra Stirton is synonymous with R. stuartii, Biatora byssacea Hampe is not referable to any lichen, and the new combination, Micarea intersociella (Stirton) Coppins, is proposed. Lecidea lampra and L. subnexa are lectotypified. 
10.2307/3241750|Homogenates of male Sphaerocarpos texanus were grown axenically in a basal medium supplemented with glucose, and treated with IAA and 2,4-D at concentrations ranging from 10
10.2307/3242451|A new species, Mielichhoferia tehamensis, has been found in Lassen Volcanic National Park, California. Its principal features include plane leaf margins, small spores, and complete lack of a peristome.
10.2307/3242214| Fontinalis duriaei Schimp. was collected from Coles Creek in Houghton Co., Michigan, to determine its assimilation and respiration under 5 temperature (1, 5, 10, 15, 20C) and 3 light (2400, 5400, 10,800 lux) conditions, using a Gilson differential respirometer. At 5400 lux the Fontinalis duriaei-periphyton association exhibited peak assimilation at 10C, where it approached light saturation under the experimental conditions. Adaptation to cool climates and spring and fall growth maxima are implicated. 
10.2307/3242780|Pleurochaete squarrosa (Brid.) Lindb. is reported for the first time for Mississippi and significant range extensions for it are reported for Alabama.
41486743|Six new species of Graphidaceae are described from Sri Lanka, four in Graphis sensu Staiger and one each in Fissurina and Thelotrema. Fissurina srilankensis Weerakoon, Wijeyaratne & Lucking is characterized by lirellae with well-developed labia and comparatively large, muriform ascospores. Graphis allugallenensis Weerakoon, Wijeyaratne & Lucking is similar to G. vittata but has a distinctly verrucose thalline margin along the lirellae. Graphis dotalugalensis Weerakoon, Wijeyaratne & Rivas Plata resembles G. proserpens in the exposed lirellae with striate labia and apically carbonized excipulum but differs in the comparatively large ascospores. Graphis knucklensis Weerakoon, Wijeyaratne & Wolseley features lirellae with striate labia, an inspersed hymenium, and norstictic acid as secondary compound. Graphis srilankensis Weerakoon, Wijeyaratne & Lumbsch has entire labia with a completely carbonized excipulum, inspersed hymenium, transversely septate ascospores, and produces norstictic acid. Finally, Thelotrema pseudosimilans Weerakoon, Wijeyaratne & Lumbsch is close to similans in the corticate thallus and prominent apothecia with narrow pore, but has consistently larger ascospores.
3244899|Lethocolea naruto-toganensis is described as a new species from central Honshu of Japan. It is closely allied to L. congesta (Lehmann) S. W. Arnell from South Africa, L. javanica (Schiffn.) Grolle from Indonesia, and L. pansa (Taylor) G. A. M. Scott & K. Beckm. from Australia in having multicellular discoid gemmae. However, L. naruto-toganensis is distinguished from these species by purple-red rhizoids, ovate leaves, smooth cell surfaces, small trigones, and short marsupia.
10.2307/3244083|Species richness and abundance of bryophytes inhabiting forest floor substrates were assessed at two sites in western Oregon. Bryophyte diversity, abundance, and community composition were compared between sites, and between young forest stands (~55 yrs) and old-growth stands (400 + yrs) within each site. Relationships of stand structural features to diversity and community composition were assessed by stratifying sampling between "diversity" plots placed in areas of greater structural diversity, such as hardwood openings and remnant old-growth trees, and "matrix" plots situated within the remaining more homogeneous conifer-dominated forest matrix. Richness, particularly for liverworts, was significantly higher in old-growth than young stands, and the two ages differed significantly in community composition. Substrate (ground versus coarse woody debris) and overstory (conifers versus hardwoods) were most strongly correlated with variation in community composition. Relatively open hardwood-dominated diversity plots differed in composition from matrix plots. Bryophyte abundance was lower in denser stands and plots, and positively correlated with canopy gaps, percentage of hardwoods, and incident solar radiation. These results suggest that availability of light may limit bryophyte productivity in these stands.
3244777|The reproductive biology of three sympatric species of Dicranoloma Ren. was investigated: D. billardierei (Brid. ex anon) Paris, D. menziesii (Taylor) Renauld, and D. platycaulon Dixon. The developmental stages of gametangia and sporophytes were identified for each species and a maturity index value assigned. Although archegonia were initiated after antheridia, archegonia matured within two months while antheridia took five to six months to reach maturity. Antheridia were initiated during winter and archegonia in spring in D. menziesii and D. platycaulon. In contrast, antheridia were initiated during late spring-summer and archegonia in autumn in D. billardierei. Fertilization occurred in late summer in D. menziesii, mid autumn in D. platycaulon, and early winter in D. billardierei. An overlap in sporophyte generations occurred in D. billardierei and D. platycaulon. Maturation of the sporophyte took 18-24 months in these species, whereas sporophytes of D. menziesii matured within 12 months.
10.2307/3242520|The morphological features of mature antheridia of Polytrichum juniperinum Hedw. are initiated in a definite sequence with respect to each other and to antheridial length. The changes include (in order) 1) thickening of cell walls at the tip of the antheridium, 2) attainment of final cell number in circumference of the jacket and diminished rate of cell increase along the axis relative to elongation, 3) development of a cuticle-like layer across the stalk of the antheridium and 4) secretion of a fluid into the base of the sperm chamber. The spermatogenous tissue stops dividing and the androcytes begin to mature before fluid secretion begins. Thus, the accumulation of fluid necessary for release of sperms is the last major change to be initiated. The tendency of antheridia to resist plasmolysis once there is a cuticle-like barrier across the stalk suggests that the barrier is involved in the regulation of solute and water movement into the maturing antheridium.
10.2307/3241717|After a sporophyte of Funaria hygrometrica becomes evident at the tip of a gametophyte, ca. 65-70 days will elapse before a capsule is matured, under greenhouse conditions. The sporophytes elongate for 2-2.5 weeks. Capsule expansion takes 9 days, and a day later pink coloration begins to appear at the tip of the operculum. The peristome teeth redden when the capsule is in its 12th day. During the 4th week after the start of capsule expansion, chlorosis begins, followed later by a reddening of the capsule and complete ripening. Sporophyte development can be visualized as including an elongation phase, a phase of capsule expansion and other premeiotic developments, and a phase of capsule ripening. The phase in which capsule expansion takes place may be regarded as the vegetative phase of capsule development.
10.2307/3241287|Thirty-three hepatics, including two new to the state, are reported for the first time from three counties in eastern Wisconsin. The total number of hepatics known from Wisconsin is 122.
10.2307/3244248|The classification of the Bryopsida is based to a large extent on the architecture of the peristome teeth. Among diplolepideous mosses, three peristome-types have been recognized. The development of the amphithecium in taxa characterized by an Orthotrichum-type peristome is described here, thereby completing our survey of the ontogeny of all three diplolepideous peristome types. Patterns of early divisions leading to a three-layered amphithecium in Schlotheimia rugifolia, Ulota crispa, and U. hutchinsiae are identical to all other arthrodontous mosses that have been studied. The subsequent anticlinal divisions occurring in the eight celled Inner Peristomial Layer are clearly asymmetric. Lack of alignment of adjacent anticlinal IPL and Primary Peristomial Layer walls is further accentuated by post-divisural lateral displacement of the IPL walls due to swelling of the PPL cells. This development of the amphithecial layers yielding a 4:2:4 pattern in the Orthotrichaceae is identical to that described for the Bryum-type peristome. The asymmetry of the critical late stage division in the IPL is considered homologous between these types. Based on recent phylogenetic hypotheses for the Bryopsida, we propose to extend this homology assumption to the Haplolepideae, the Diphysciales, and the Tetraphidales, suggesting that the asymmetric division is likely plesiomorphic within the Arthrodonteae. Whether the peristome of the Orthotrichaceae represents a primitive bryalean peristome, or whether it arose through reduction of a bryoid-type remains to be addressed further.
10.2307/3241469|In Lehigh Water Gap near a zinc factory, species diversities of corticolous, saxicolous, lignicolous, and terricolous lichen communities are markedly reduced compared to the species diversities of lichen communities in Delaware Water Gap. Nine lichen species were found in Lehigh Water Gap; 84 in Delaware Water Gap. Foliose, fruticose, and crustose species, respectively, are increasingly more tolerant of the conditions around the zinc factory. The effect of the zinc factory on the Blue Mountain lichen flora is discernible up to 6 km to the west of Lehigh Water Gap and 15 km to the east.
20485802|Two species, Dicranum dispersum and Sciuro-hypnum ornellanum, are reported for the first time from North America. Both species were discovered among collections made in northern Alaska in the Philip Smith Mountains and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in 2004, and S. ornellanum also was collected in 1993 on the Seward Peninsula. Brief descriptions and illustrations of both species are provided.
20061086|Spatial variation in population sex ratios is common in bryophytes, but the ecological correlates of this variation are not well documented. The dioecious desert moss Syntrichia caninervis presents an example of this variation occurring at the regional scale (kilometers) as well as the microscale (centimeters). Here, our goal is to correlate variation in plant traits and sex expression levels to relevant ecological variation, and specifically to investigate whether spatial segregation of the sexes (SSS) exists at the level of the patch. Five sporophytic patches of S. caninervis were sampled at 10 cm intervals along a transect extending from shrub understory into the exposed intershrub region, thus representing a stress gradient of light intensity and moisture availability. Along a gradient from understory to intershrub microsites, individual plant length and biomass declined significantly, with plants under the canopy twice as large as those in the more exposed microsites. Sex expression declined from 76% under the shrub canopy to &lt 5% in the intershrub region, with the number of inflorescences per individual declining from 1.5 to near zero along this transect. Of the 778 individuals sampled, only 11 males were recovered, and all of these males occurred within 15 cm of the shrub canopy line. Nevertheless, the high number of female and nonexpressing individuals coupled with a rarity of male individuals resulted in no association between gender and microsite. However, using the distribution of fertilized female inflorescences as a surrogate measure of historical male presence indicated that males were significantly clustered near the shrub canopy line, indicative of spatial SSS. We hypothesize that males are less stress tolerant than females and that this condition may be an outgrowth of the sexes allocating differential resources to sexual reproduction.
10.2307/3243858|Our improved ability to isolate, culture, and identify photobionts has given us new insights into how they can be used in lichen systematics. Identification of different types of photobionts isolated from a wide variety of lichens has shown that there is not a well-defined pattern between the mycobiont and its corresponding photobiont. It is unlikely that taxonomists can find much value in the types of photobionts that occur in lichens, at least at the species level. Although photobionts do not have a determining role in the kinds of thalli produced, they are essential for thallus formation. A mycobiont cannot produce a thallus alone. Whatever factor the photobiont produces that stimulates thallus morphogenesis must be a general one, i.e., something that can turn on the genes of different mycobionts.
10.2307/3240799|R. rhenana (n=16) and R. fluitans (n=8) are morphologically similar, and colchicine-induced diploids of R. fluitans are identical with R. rhenana. Plants referred to R. rhenana should be regarded as diploid R. fluitans. R. duplex (n=16) and R. canaliculata (n=8) are morphologically similar and colchicine-induced diploids of R. canaliculata resemble R. duplex, except that they are dioecious. R. duplex is probably diploid R. canaliculata.
10.2307/3242473|Analysis-of-variance procedures have demonstrated that the concentrations of most elements in Parmelia chlorochroa Tuck. appear to be remarkably uniform throughout the Powder River Basin. Of the 26 elements studied, only 7 (aluminum, cadmium, copper, fluorine, lead, selenium and silicon) showed statistically significant "regional" variation at scales above 10 km. The element content of samples taken at opposite ends of the basin, therefore, is not expected to vary any more, on the average, than that of samples taken only a few kilometers apart. These results allow us to judge the geochemical normalcy of any subsequent samples of this terricolous lichen collected from anywhere in the basin. Baselines, expressed as 95% expected ranges, are given for those 19 elements lacking significant regional variation.
10.2307/3242678|The monotypic lichen genus Ahtiana Goward is here segregated from Parmelia s. str., and is demonstrated to have a close phylogenetic relationship with Cetraria s. lat. The type species, A. sphaerosporella, has a western North American distribution similar to that of its primary phorophyte, Pinus albicaulis Engelm.
3244868|Spatial segregation of the sexes in bryophytes has been implicated as the primary reason for the lack of sporophyte production in many dioicous bryophyte populations. Additionally, sex-specific microhabitat specialization by dioicous bryophytes may influence population sex ratios and the maintenance of sexually dimorphic traits. We examined habitat use of female and male M. inflexa in two populations in Trinidad and 10 populations an the U.S.A. to determine whether the sexes were spatially segregated within populations and if the sexes specialized on different microhabitats. Populations differed in habitat characteristics, sex ratios varied among populations, and populations consisted mainly of single-sex or non-sex-expressing patches of plants. Despite the fact that Marchantia inflexa is sexually dimorphic, female and male plants used areas of similar substrate, humidity, wind speed, and exposure within and among populations. In U.S.A. populations, males were found in areas with more open canopy and used a wider range of light environments than females. Although the sexes of M. inflexa were spatially separated within populations, they overlapped in habitat use and their distributions were not correlated with an environmental gradient.
10.2307/3241829| This new exsiccata, issued by the National Herbarium of Canada (CANL), includes 75 numbers in 30 sets. Recipients of the sets are listed. Among the lichens distributed the following are new records for North America: Arthothelium ilicinum (T. Tayl.) P. James, Pertusaria sommerfeltii (Flrke ex Sommerf.) Fr., and Stereocaulon myriocarpum Th. Fr. 
10.2307/3243053|The Old World hepatic Lunularia cruciata (L.) Dum. has become widely naturalized in coastal California from the Los Angeles area to within 100 miles of the Oregon border. It is characteristically found in mesic, summer-dry habitats. Gametangia are freely produced, but sporophytes are rare, apparently because they require moisture throughout the summer to mature.
10.2307/3242139| Nardia japonica Steph. is reported new to North America, a second location in North America is given for Cephaloziella phyllacantha (Mass. et Carest.) K. Mll., and the ranges of Schofieldia monticola J. Godfr. and Cololejeunea macounii (Spruce in Und.) Evans are extended to include southeastern Alaska. 
10.2307/3241139|The cells of the green lamellae on the adaxial surface of Polytrichum and Atrichum leaves are typical chlorenchyma and their protoplasts are connected by few plasmodesma. The elongate parenchyma cells of the midrib are united by numerous protoplasmic connections that traverse the highly perforated cross walls. All three parenchyma layers share this feature, and a single clearly differentiated layer of phloem-like cells was not recognized. The hydroids are mostly free from protoplasm and are separated from each other by thin, imperforate walls.
10.2307/3240994|The original specimens of 22 of the 32 species of mosses collected by Clayton and reported by Gronovius in the second edition of Flora Virginica (1762) are extant and have been examined. Originally referred to by descriptive phrases, the species for which specimens exist are rereported under their current binomials.
3244910|This paper treats four North American yellow or orange sorediate species, C. chrysodeta, C. citrina, C. tominii, and C. xanthostigmoidea. These species are mostly sterile and sorediate and usually occur on rocks and soil. Other related non-American species, C. proteus, C. soropelta, and C. xantholyta are also discussed in relation to the treated species. Descriptions, distribution maps, and color illustrations are provided for the treated taxa.
10.2307/3243075|Type specimens of ten species of Fissidens, viz., F. adianthoides, F. asplenioides, F. bryoides, F. exilis, F. osmundoides, F. palmatus, F. polypodioides, F. semicompletus, F. subbasilaris and F. taxifolius, described by Hedwig in Species Muscorum (1801) and currently retained within the genus are discussed. Specimens later added to the Hedwig-Schwaegrichen Herbarium by Schwaegrichen are reevaluated taxonomically.
10.2307/3243324|The census is based on examination of herbarium specimens and field collections. Species distributions are recorded for 24 ecogeographic regions in Western Australia. The census contains 192 taxa in 78 genera and 31 families. The largest family is the Pottiaceae with 56 species in 26 genera. The largest genera are Bryum (19 species), Fissidens (15) and Funaria (11). The list includes 30 species not previously reported from Western Australia and four species whose present known distribution is limited to the State. Within the State the number and diversity of species is greatest in the Southwestern Botanical Province. About 70% of the species are also found in South Australia, and a world-wide comparison of species distributions shows a strong Gondwanaland component to the flora.
10.2307/3241470|The genus Andrewsianthus formerly included 13 species, only one of which was reported from South America. Two new species are described from southernmost America: A. australis from Chile (Patagonian Channels) and Falkland Islands and A. planifolius, endemic to the Falkland Islands. The new species are compared with the previously described A. achrous.
40732257|Micro-morphological studies on mosses are not common, but have the potential to illuminate the naure of taxonomic characters. Data on the structure and development of leaf cell papillae in the Sematophyllaceae obtained using light and scanning electron mocroscopy techniques are presented to assess developmental similarity and congruence with lazonomy. Two morphological and developmentally distinct kinds of papillae were identified; 1) dome-shaped to conical, tapering to a firmly rounded apex ("conial"), and 2) a more flaccid, baggy form, that is often flat-topped and wider distally than proximally ("baggy"). Conical papillae first appear as slight protrusions that gradually increase in height, whereas baggy papillae progress through a series of developmental sizes and forms. Conical papillae ococur in most papillose taxa, whereas baggy papillae are present only in Taxithelium subgenus taxithelium.
3244728|Schistochila yakushimensis is described as new from Japan and Thailand. The species, belonging to sect. Sciureae, is characterized by two distinct leaf-wings, almost entire leaf margins, and non-lamellate lateral leaves and underleaves.
10.2307/3242952| The essential oil of Jungermannia vulcanicola Steph., a plant growing in acidic streams (pH 1.9-4.6), was analyzed by GC-MS. It was found that the liverwort contains monoterpenes (-pinene, camphene, sabinene, -pinene, myrcene, limonene, -terpinene and terpinolene) as major oil components. The percentages of monoterpenes varied greatly among samples from seven different locations, while changing seasons had no significant effect on monoterpene composition. The chemosystematic implications are discussed briefly. 
10.2307/3240836|In North America Normandina pulchella (Borr.) Nyl. is distributed primarily in the foothills of the Appalachians in the East and in the mountains in the West. In Europe and South Africa it is regarded as an "oceanic" species, but in North America its range shows no oceanic relationships whatever.
10.2307/3240834|Teloschistes arcticus Zahlbr., reported early in the nineteenth century (as Borrera aurantiaca R. Br.) from Melville Island and later disputed, is reported from the southwest coast of Banks Island, Northwest Territories. It is closely related to the South American species T. nodulifera Hillm.
10.2307/3240494|Anastrophyllum saxicola, Lophozia atlantica, and L. heterocolpa are reported as new to New York State. Range extensions or new stations are given for ten other taxa.
3244698|We studied epiphytic macrolichen communities and occurrences of rare species along the transition from upland to riparian forests on a range of stream sizes (intermittent, non-fish-bearing perennial, fish-bearing but less than 5
10.2307/3244229| The species Leptogium cellulosum P. M. Jrg. & Tnsberg sp. nov. and L. tacomae P. M. Jrg. & Tnsberg sp. nov. are described. Leptogium aquale (Arn.) P. M. Jrg. is recorded as new to America, and it is shown that L. perminutum Hedr. and L. nanum Herre are synonyms of L. subtile (Schrad.) Torss. and L. biatorinum (Nyl.) Leight., respectively. 
10.2307/3242667| This report provides the first detailed analysis and graphic representation of blepharoplast morphology for a "true moss" (Bryopsida). Ultrastructural examination revealed that the spline of Funaria hygrometrica is unusual in having its anterior end longitudinally divided into two unequal portions, an effect of a transverse separation of approximately three microtubule-diameters in width between the fourth and fifth microtubules from the spline's right side. Because this slotlike separation is open at its proximal end, the term "open-apertur ate" is used to distinguish it from the more common "closed-apertur ate" spline in which the aperture is limited proximally by short microtubules. Closed-apertur ate splines are common among hepatics and have also been reported in the mosses Polytrichum and Sphagnum. Among the hornworts, only inaperturate splines are known to occur. As in other bryophytes, the Funaria blepharoplast comprises two dimorphic basal bodies (BB) closely subtended by a multilayered structure (MLS) of four layers. The spline, which averages 13 microtubules at its widest region, is further characterized by having a single divergent microtubule along its left margin. This microtubule underlies the posterior BB for most of its length, rejoining the other spline microtubules near the level where the posterior flagellum emerges from the cell. The asymmetric lamellar strip is relatively small, about 0.5 m at its widest point and about 1.1 m in overall length. The BBs are unequal in length and staggered, the shorter anterior BB and the longer posterior one terminating about 0.2 and 0.5 m, respectively, behind the anterior margin of the spline. 
10.2307/3240805|The recently proposed genus Austrolophozia, described for certain taxa in the Andean-Patagonian region and in New Zealand, differs from other genera of the Lophoziaceae in the combination of 3-4-5-lobed leaves succubously inserted, the exceedingly large, often solitary oil-bodies, the homogeneous stem structure, the dense rhizoids and small underleaves, and the laciniate-ciliate perianth mouth. The type species is A. paradoxa of New Zealand.
3244289| A new species, Gyalectidium yahriae Buck & Srus., is described from collections made on twigs in Quercus woods in Florida (U.S.A.) and from decorticated wood in the montane forest zone of Papua New Guinea. Its ascocarps are unknown, but it is easily characterized by hyphophores composed of a circle of triangular lobes and by masses of moniliform hyphae producing long cilia on their outer cells; its generic position in the lichen family Gomphillaceae is uncertain. 
10.2307/3243907| The holotype of Lecanora imshaugii Brodo is identical to L. perflexuosa (Rs.) Miyawaki of Japan and Korea, with the name L. imshaugii taking priority. This is another example of a lichen species restricted to an eastern North American and eastern Asian distribution pattern. 
20110856|Sphagnum atlanticum is distinguished from S. torreyanum by its well-enclosed branch leaf chlorophyll cells, less well-differentiated stem cortex, stronger brown pigmentation and a flatter capitulum. Sphagnum atlanticum also has falcate-secund branch leaves whereas those of S. torreyanum are straight.
10.2307/3244417|Bacidia viridifarinosa, Cliostomum flavidulum, Fellhaneropsis vezdae, Gyalideopsis muscicola, Lecanora jamesii, Lepraria elobata, Opegrapha fumosa, Placynthiella dasaea, Scoliciosporum pruinosum, and the lichenicolous fungus Opegrapha thelotrematis, are reported new to North America from the Pacific coast. Lobaric acid is reported from Scoliciosporum pruinosum.
10.2307/3243985|Natural populations of the Cladonia chlorophaea complex vary in morphology, fertility, and secondary-product chemistry. In this study, 1,485 individuals from 75 mats on three Southern Appalachian mountains were scored for chemotype and fertility, and 914 individuals for qualitative morphological characters. These populations contain individuals of four chemotypes that have been recognized as sibling species. The frequency of the chemotypes varied between mats, even at the same site, indicating that there is little migration between mats. The frequencies of some morphological traits were significantly higher in some chemotypes, such as apothecia production in the grayanic acid chemotype. However, individuals within each of the chemotypes were morphologically variable and individuals in different chemotypes often shared each of the morphological traits. Both fumarprotocetraric acid and merochlorophaeic acid chemotypes appeared to contain two morphological groups that differed in the size and cover of the soredia and the shape of the cup. Although morphological tendencies can be identified for the chemotypes, morphology cannot be used to predict chemotype nor to support recognition of chemospecies in these populations.
20110963|Pyramidula tetragona (Brid.) Brid. is reported for the first time from Turkey. The species is described from material collected on wet soil in an archaeological site (Tilmen Hyk) in southeastern Anatolia.
10.2307/3244070|Thirty-five populations conforming vegetatively to either Porella platyphylla (L.) Pfeiff. or P. platyphylloidea (Schwein.) Lindb. were analyzed using a combination of isozyme and morphometric methods to assess patterns of morphological and genetic differentiation within this difficult species complex. On the basis of the 11 loci that were consistently resolved, three discrete genotypes were identified. There was virtually no within population variation, but each of the genotypes displayed among population variation, with mean genetic identity values within genotypes ranging from 0.609 to 0.843. Each genotype was defined by several unique alleles and mean genetic identity values among genotypes ranged from 0.310 to 0.569. Quantitative analyses of ten vegetative characters, traditionally considered to be taxonomically informative for the two species, showed continuous patterns of morphological variation among the populations. Although a cluster analyses of genetic data clearly supported recognition of three genetic groups, a similar analysis of morphological data failed to discriminate the genotypes and additionally, clustered the type specimens of P. platyphylla and P. platyphylloidea. Populations with completely 1-spiral elaters and those with completely 2-3 spiral elaters occurred within identical genotypes, demonstrating that this sporophytic character is also not a reliable predictor of genetic divergence. Since there are no morphological characters that can be used to distinguish among the genotypes, they are recognized as "cryptic species" within the single morphologically defined taxon, P. platyphylla. A list of synonyms, reflecting the reduction of P. platyphylloidea to P. platyphylla, is provided.
10.2307/3243355|The lichen Vulpicida tilesii (Ach.) J.-E. Mattsson & Lai is reported for the first time in Washington State. Previously its known distribution was circumpolar and southward into the Rocky Mountains of the United States. A map showing its distribution in the Pacific Northwest is provided.
10.2307/3240941|Cytological observations were made on 31 species in 16 genera and eight families of pleurocarpous mosses from India. Of these the chromosome numbers for 22 species are reported for the first time. Intraspecific polyploidy is recorded in Brachythecium buchananii (Hook.) Jaeg. The m chromosome was consistently observed in 18 species, and all these species showed n = 10 or higher numbers. Sex chromosomes were observed in Rhynchostegium planeusculum (Mitt.) Jaeg., Rhynchostegiella sp., and Gollania clarescens (Mitt.) Broth.
10.2307/3241587|The previous catalog of mosses known from Alaska was published in 1902 and included 280 species and varieties. The present enumeration, compiled from published records, lists 601 taxa in 150 genera and 43 families.
10.2307/3242829|A new lichen species, Cladonia labradorica Ahti & Brodo is reported from northern Quebec and Labrador (Newfoundland). The species is closely related to C. dimorphoclada Robb. and contains usnic acid. C. kanewskii Oxn. is reported as new to Canada from British Columbia, the Yukon Territory, and the District of Keewatin, Northwest Territories. Pycnothelia cladinoides Nyl. is included in Cladonia caroliniana Tuck.
10.2307/3242253|Nineteen county records are reported from collections made in Waubonsie State Park, Fremont County, Iowa, including two species new to the state, Fissidens osmundoides Hedw. and Frullania brittoniae Evans.
10.2307/3241090| Protonemal regeneration from cells of isolated leaves of Mnium affine is under the control of a phytochrome-mediated system. Phytochrome 730, induced by short periods of red light (wavelength 660 m), stimulates protonemal regeneration of mature leaf cells. The system is red far-red reversible. Blue light is connected with the response, acting in the same manner as light of 660 m wavelength. The action of blue light can be reversed with far-red light. 
3244804|This paper presents the results of a study of the C. squamosa group in North and Central America. The group as understood here includes C. squamosa, C. subsoluta, and two new species-C. parviloba and C. phyllidizans. This group is common and variable, and C. squamosa and C. subsoluta have been described several times. Several new synonyms are given and lectotypes are selected for C. irrubescens and C. squamosa. Color photographs and distribution maps are presented along with a discussion of the variability. The most constant features are the subsquamulose thallus and the paraplectenchymatous layer below the hypothecium and in the upper proper margin.
10.2307/3240995|The 35 bryophytes found in the cedar groves of Lebanon are listed and their world-wide ranges indicated. Cedrus libani and its ecology in Lebanon are described as a background to the list of bryophytes.
10.2307/3241265|Analysis of the terricolous, saxicolous, and muscicolous alpine lichens of Mt. Audubon, north-central Colorado, yielded 86 taxa in 35 genera. Caloplaca exsecuta (Nyl.) Dalla Torre & Sarnth. is reported as new to Colorado.
10.2307/3242260| Fissidens plurisetus Bartr., F. vardei Thr. and F. veracruzensis Pursell are reported as additions to the Venezuelan bryoflora. Distributional records for F. angustifolius Sull., F. mollis Mitt., F. reticulosus (C. Mll.) Mitt. F. steerei Grout and Erpodium coronatum (Hook. f. & Wils.) Mitt. in Aragua State are also presented. 
10.2307/3242974|Many -orcinol depsidones with low R
25614893|A total of 293 different lichens (and lichenicolous fungi) were found above an elevation of 884 m on Katahdin during fieldwork from 2000 to 2004 and from study of previously collected herbarium specimens. Thirteen of these are new to North America, 39 additional lichens are new to northeastern United States and 26 additional ones are new to Maine; three additional taxa are almost certainly new to science but are not formally described in this study. We identified eight distinct lichen habitats on Katahdin: (1) A1, exposed alpine tundra and fellfields; (2) A2, high elevation alpine sites protected from northwest winds; (3) A3, east-facing alpine late-snow areas; (4) A4, alpine krummholz; (5) A5, cirque headwalls facing east and north; (6) A6, cirque headwall facing southeast; (7) B1, exposed low-altitude tundra, talus and krummholz; and (8) B2, subalpine forests. Each habitat except A4 had numerous lichens (10-56 taxa) found in none of the others, and each differed statistically from two to six other habitats by a quantitative measure of the Arctic-boreal-temperate (ABT) distribution of its lichens. Habitat A3 had, on average, the most Arctic lichens, followed by A1, A2, A5, B1, A6 and A4, with B2 having the fewest Arctic lichens and the most with a temperate distribution. Lichen ABT values for the eight habitats are well predicted (R = 96.9%) by a multiple regression equation incorporating three independent variables: average elevation above sea level of the lichens collected in a habitat class; an estimate of solar gain for each of the eight habitats; and the presence or absence of trees (including krummholz). We compared our results with those for Mt. Albert, Gasp, Quebec, the only other comprehensive study of alpine lichens in northeastern North America, for such parameters as species presence/absence, substrata and ABT value. We suggest that future studies looking into effects of global warming or increases or decreases in air pollution will be facilitated by the study of certain habitats rather than the entire alpine and subalpine Katahdin region.
10.2307/3241016|Sphagnum dusenii is reported for the first time from Britain and a differential diagnosis is given for the related species S. jensenii and S. balticum. The distribution of S. balticum in Britain is presented along with an account of a form of this species with an abundance of free pores.
10.2307/3241228|The evidences on the pollution and drought hypotheses, which seek to explain the rarity of lichens and bryophytes in urban environments, have been critically examined. It is concluded that the premises and logic of the drought hypothesis are not acceptable. In the present paper the importance of experimentation and of phytosociological quantification in ecological hypotheses are stressed.
10.2307/3243270|Bestia is divided into two components, the lectotype species, B. longipes, going to the Brachytheciaceae and the other, B. vancouveriensis, to the Thamnobryaceae under a new combination as Porotrichum. Tripterocladium is positioned in the Hypnaceae and Isothecium in the Brachytheciaceae.
23321026|Two new photomorphs in the Lobariaceae have been found on the remote island of Reunion in the Mascarene archipelago: the free-living Dendriscocaulon-like cyanomorph of the pantropical Lobaria discolor, and the cyanomorph of Sticta dichotoma, a species apparently endemic to the western parts of the Indian Ocean, known only from its chloromorph. Inferences from three loci demonstrate that the fungus involved in each morph of either pair belongs to the same species. Phylogenetic analyses resolve all genera of the Lobariaceae as polyphyletic, and all Dendriscocaulon-like cyanomorphs within Lobaria, except for D. dendroides, which belongs to Sticta.
10.2307/3242804|Phaeophyscia leana, a lichen once thought to be extinct, has been found in Illinois 400 km from the type locality.
10.2307/3244555|The new lichen species Gyalideopsis mexicana is described from Chihuahua, Mexico. It is characterized by a crustose, badly delimited thallus, branched diahyphae carried by erect hyphophores, and submuriform spores; it grows on mosses and plant debris. The species is known from five localities in the Sierra Madre Occidental.
10.2307/3241733|Erpodium acrifolium Pursell is reported new to Texas and the United States. Isopterygium homomallifolium is described as a new species from Texas.
10.2307/3241966|Addition of cAMP, 2':3'-cAMP, ADP, ATP, cGMP, imidazole, adenine or guanine did not induce buds on the moss Pylaisiella selwynii (Kindb.) Crum, Steere & Anderson. Adenosine and inhibitors of cAMP phosphodiesterase from animal systems produced few buds, some of which developed into callus or rarely gametophores. Protonemal growth was slightly accelerated by cAMP. IAA (10
41486747|We present an analysis of edaphic and phytosociological factors controlling the distribution of 36 moss species found in a northern hardwood forest. The soil chemistry, soil physical measurements, tree importance values and plot understory percent cover were analyzed for 153 plots (m) located along a 1.8 km transect in Glenmeal State Forest, Pierrepont NY. Relationships between edaphic and phytosociological factors and species presence and absence were evaluated with non-metric multidimensional scaling, cluster analysis and Kruskall-Wallis tests. Soil depth, calcium, manganese, pH, CEC, light intensity, occurrence of Acer saccharum Marshall, Fraxinus americana L., Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carriere, and Quercus rubra L. percent living cover, percent graminoid, and percent tree cover were observed to exert the strongest influence on species presence and absence and species assemblages. Based on their responses to environmental variables the 36 moss species can be segregated into four groups defined primarily by soil calcium, potassium, CEC, moisture, and organic matter.
10.2307/3243547|The total lipid content of Funaria hygrometrica Hedw. increased during development and the sporophyte contained more lipids than the gametophyte. These differences were due to the accumulation in the sporophyte of nonpolar lipids such as triacylglycerols, steryl esters, and aliphatic alcohol esters, which occurred only in small amounts, if at all, in leaves of vascular plants. The major polar lipids in all extracts were monogalactosyldiacylglycerols, digalactosyldiacylglycerols, sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerols, and diacylglycerophosphoglycerols. The concentration of these four lipid classes was highest in vascular plant leaves and lowest in the moss sporophyte. In the moss the lipids decreased during development and were more abundant in the gametophyte than the sporophyte. Linolenic acid was the predominant acyl moiety in total lipids and individual galactolipids of leaves, but not of the gametophyte or sporophyte of the moss. Although most lipid classes of the sporophyte were richer in linolenic acid than the corresponding classes of the gametophyte, the sporophyte galactolipids were poorest in this polyunsaturated fatty acid. These findings correlate with the well known weak photosynthetic activity of mosses relative to vascular plants.
10.2307/3242396|Biatora columbiana Merr., a forgotten species described from Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada, is reintroduced as Catillaria columbiana (Merr.) comb. nov. A corticolous species of lichens, it occurs from British Columbia to California.
43188714|Dimelaena lichenicola is a juvenile parasite on D. oreina and D. thysanota, developing an independent brown areolate lichenized thallus on gneiss and acid rock. It differs from D. californica primarily in producing longer conidia (6.0-10.0  1.0 vs. 5.0-6.0  1.0 m), having a reduced thallus and minute lobes, lacking a well-developed plicate margin and a prothallus, having a different host species (D. oreina and D. thrysanota vs. D. radiata), and a different habitat (montane vs. coastal). It is reported from North America (California) and Europe (Italy).
20110799|The moss Tortella alpicola Dixon (Pottiaceae) is reported as new to western Europe (west of the Urals), where it was found in the south of Spain (Sierra Nevada range). Its distribution, diagnostic characters and differentiation from some closely related European taxa, with which it may be confused, are discussed. A map of its known distribution and light microscope micrographs are provided.
10.2307/3242953|Two new localities of Catillaria sculpturata H. Magn. are reported-the species was found in the Alaj Mountains, Usbekistan, USSR and, new for Europe, in the Samnaun Group, Tyrol, Austria. A species morphologically hardly distinguishable from this species is described as C. crystallifera Kilias, sp. nov. The new species is known from the Rocky Mountains, Colorado, USA, and the Cape Region, South Africa.
10.2307/3242474|Cadmium, copper, lead, silver and zinc were determined in bryophytes from two mining areas in New Zealand. Background concentrations of all, except copper in Hypnum cupressiforme Hedw., were lower than in the lowest background values obtained for Swedish specimens of this species. Near the dusty treatment plant at Te Aroha, all bryophytes had high metal concentrations when compared with the substrate, which indicated foliar uptake of airborne contaminants when compared with uptake by bryophytes in mineralized areas due presumably to passive ion-exchange at the rhizoid-soil interface. Uptake of silver near a treatment plant at Maratoto and uptake of heavy metals by the aquatic bryophyte Fissidens rigidulus Hook. f. et. Wils were also investigated.
40732265|This study provides the first report that Sphagnum centrale and S. henryense are allopolyploids. Microsatellites show S. henryense and S. palustre to be conspecific. In contrast, they show S. centrale to be genetically distinct from S. palustre s. l. In addition to differences in alleles and allele frequencies, the patterns of observed heterozygosity across 17 microsatellite markers also differed between S. centrale and S. palustre s.l. This represents a dimension of genetic differentiation that is not detected or addressed by statistical approaches such as AMOVA or Principal Coordinates Analysis. The patterns of microsatellites further provide preliminary evidence suggesting that S.centrale and S. palustre have one parental taxon in common and differ in the second.
10.2307/3241491|The comparative histology of the fructifications of Trichocolea lanata and T. australis reveals an extensive diversification of anatomical and morphological features within the circumscription of a single "genus."
10.2307/3244181|The radioactive plume from the Chernobyl accident of April 26, 1986 reached Greece by May 1, substantially contaminating various regions and ecosystems of the country. Since then, the long-lived radionuclide
10.2307/3241246|Cololejeunea cardiocarpa (Mont.) Steph., C. minutissima (Smith) Schiffn., Frullania obcordata (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Lehm. & Lindenb., Lejeunea laetevirens Nees & Mont., Cheilolejeunea rigidula (Nees & Mont.) Schust., Metzgeria myriopoda Lindb., and Rectolejeunea maxonii Evans are first reports as epiphylls for Louisiana, and the last three taxa are first reports as epiphylls for the United States.
10.2307/3242509|Epiphytic cryptogams were sampled quantitatively along both north and south exposures of 87 trees of Populus deltoides growing singly and fully exposed in northeastern South Dakota and adjacent Minnesota. Coverage was estimated for each species occurring in ten adjacent 1 x 2 dm plots placed 0-2 m along each exposure of every tree. Based on coverage and constancy data three epiphytic unions are described, including the Physcia ciliata-Physcia stellaris union on young trees (avg. diam. = 5.9 d.b.h.), the Candelariella subdeflexa union on intermediate-sized trees (avg. diam. = 7.1 d.b.h.) and the Physcia orbicularis-Candelaria concolor union on large trees (avg. diam. = 8.9 d.b.h.). Two objective classification methods-agglomerative method and weighted pair-group method -confirmed the presence of the epiphytic unions. North exposures supported considerably more luxuriant epiphytic vegetation than south exposures, but trees of a particular size class generally supported the same epiphytic vegetation on both north and south exposures. Though bark moisture-holding capacity was higher and bark pH was lower in samples from young trees than old trees, these factors are less important than bark texture in determining the composition of epiphytic unions on Populus deltoides. The quantitative method used in sampling also revealed trends of biotic succession among epiphytic vegetation. The Physcia orbicularis-Candelaria concolor union is the apparent climax on old Populus deltoides in our region.
10.2307/3241201|This study concerns the Hookeriaceae of the Lesser Antilles, completing the treatment of the family in the West Indies. Taxa not included previously in the Hookeriaceae monographic series are described and illustrated. The keys include all the taxa observed from the Lesser Antilles. This paper treats 15 genera and 71 species. Of these, 24 species have not been included in previous publications in the series.
10.2307/3243627|Additional changes to the "Fifth Checklist of the Lichen-Forming, Lichenicolous and Allied Fungi of the Continental United States and Canada" based on recent literature reports are presented. New taxa and synonyms are documented, and corrections in author citations and spellings are also included. The new combinations Loxospora ochrophaea (Tuck.) R. C. Harris and L. pustulata (Brodo & Culb.) R. C. Harris are proposed.
10.2307/3244551|All of the taxa in the lichen genus Cladonia that were examined for this study possess a prothallus. This non-lichenized, exclusively fungal component of the thallus was found in both organic and inorganic substrates. It was usually found in contact with the primary squamule or with another part of the photosynthetic thallus such as the podetium. Most prothallus mycelial aggregations were diffuse. Some formed rhizine-like bundles, aggregations, or non-cellular masses. Most of the species had more than one prothallus form. Secreted materials, which bind the hyphae of the prothallus to one another and to particles of substrate were observed. The prothallus may provide a mode of vegetative reproduction in Cladonia lichens, and it may play a role in soil stabilization.
3244867|A comparison between lime (Tilia platyphyllos) and holly oak (Quercus ilex) as substrate trees for epiphytic lichens was carried out in Siena (central Italy). The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of these phorophytes on the diversity of epiphytic lichens, at a similar climatic regime and at the same air pollution status. The diversity values measured on Tilia were on the average 1.5 times higher than those on Quercus. No difference between the two tree species appeared for bark pH and bark concentrations of NO
3244292|Cleistocarpous mosses, those lacking a differentiated operculum and having the capsule dehisce irregularly, are generally thought to have evolved via reduction from stegocarpous ancestors. Bruchia (Bruchiaceae), a cleistocarpous genus of approximately 15 species, shares gametophytic similarities with the genus Trematodon, which has a functional annulus and dehiscent capsule. The sequence of cell divisions characterizing the sporophyte of Bruchia flexuosa shows that development is typically haplolepideous up to the stage in which the peristomial formula is 4:2:2. Whereas other haplolepideous species, including Trematodon longicollis, complete development with a 4:2:3 peristomial formula, the last set of anticlinal divisions in the Inner Peristomial Layer do not occur in B. flexuosa, which therefore appears to mature at what is an immature stage in related stegocarpous taxa. This pattern of development is consistent with an origin of the cleistocarpous capsules of Bruchia through paedomorphosis from a Trematodon-like (haplopideous) ancestor.
10.2307/3242168|Usnic acid, a widespread aromatic secondary compound of lichens, was successfully detected using gas-liquid chromatography. The columns contained one percent OV-17 (phenylmethylsilicone), a moderately polar stationary phase, coated on Chromosorb W 80/100 mesh. The carrier gas was nitrogen and a flame ionization detector was employed. Usnic acid is sufficiently volatile that silylation is not necessary. This technique should be applicable to several areas of lichenological research.
10.2307/3242094|The monotypic genus, Bryobrothera, is transferred from the Rhizogoniaceae to the Hookeriaceae on the basis of recent collections with mature, calyptrate sporophytes. A more complete description of the species is provided and specimens are cited from northern Queensland, Fiji and the Solomon Islands.
10.2307/3242010|Notothylas dissecta St. is described from Agumbe, India. This constitutes the first report of its occurrence in the Asiatic flora. Of special interest are the thickenings in the inner layer of the capsule wall and surface layer of the columella. In addition, the unique spores are tuberculate with a centrally raised area on the distal surface and a central hollow in each proximal face which is encircled by radially arranged tubercles. The species shows a disjunct distribution of considerable phytogeographical significance.
10.2307/3243182|An enumeration of and key to western North American taxa of Porella are presented. Seven species and two forms are reviewed. Porella subsection Navicularis, P. roellii fo. crispata, and fo. schofieldiana are newly described. Porella fauriei is new to Oregon, Porella cordaeana is new to Nevada and P. platyphylla is new to South Dakota.
3244941|A taxonomic and nomenclatural history of Codriophorus aquaticus (Schrad.) Bednarek-Ochyra & Ochyra [Trichostomum aquaticum (Brid.) ex Schrad.; Racomitrium aquaticum (Schrad.) Brid.] is presented. A specimen from Llanberis in Britain, preserved in the Dillenian herbarium in OXF and illustrated in Historia muscorum of 1741, is selected as lectotype of this species name. The lectotype specimen is described and illustrated and it represents the typical phenotype of the species that is characterized by having entirely unistratose leaf lamina; entire leaf margins including the apex; presence of a basal marginal border of up to 15 transparent cells with straight walls; and very stout, thick, and broad costae with 10-13 enlarged adaxial epidermal cells in the proximal part.
10.2307/3242452|Trichostomum binnsii R.Br.ter. is a synonym of Bryoerythrophyllum jamesonii (Tayl.) Crum. Other synonyms based upon the same specific epithet are Didymodon binnsii (R.Br.ter.) Dix., Erythrobarbula binnsii (R.Br.ter.) Sainsb. and Bryoerythrophyllum binnsii (R.Br.ter.) Wijk & Marg.
10.2307/3242130|This ultrastructural investigation of Trypethelium eluteriae, an endoperidermal lichen, reveals an amorphous upper cortex devoid of cork cells previously unreported for the Trypetheliaceae. The cells of the phycobiont, Trentepohlia, possess bilamellar cell walls, large parietal chloroplasts with interthylakoidal starch grains and haematochrome droplets located around the periphery of the cells. The ascomycetous mycobiont has variably thick walls; the thinnest walls are found in the medullary hyphae associated with periderm cells. The mycobiont cells possess the normal complement of organelles. The mycobiont plasmalemma is relatively smooth in those hyphae of the upper cortex and algal layers but in the medullary hyphae, the plasmalemma has extensive invaginations. The amorphous upper cortex, thin medullary hyphal walls and the plasmalemma invaginations suggest a saprophytic relationship between the mycobiont and periderm cells. Algal-fungal contact is of the appressorium type possibly reflecting either the mesic habitat of the lichen or its evolutionary status.
10.2307/3243370|A total of 65 epiphyte species (macrolichens, bryophytes, and a fern) were found on the branches of four 700-year-old Douglas fir trees, two growing in the forest interior and two growing on the edge of a 20-year-old clearcut. The moss Antitrichia curtipendula and the cyanolichen Lobaria oregana dominated the epiphyte assemblages. Branch epiphyte assemblages were similar to those reported for a 450-year-old Douglas fir forest, but A. curtipendula and Pseudocyphellaria rainierensis were much more abundant in the older forest. Epiphyte species tended to be positively associated with other members of their functional group. Alectorioid and "other" lichens tended to be negatively associated with bryophytes. Several species were closely associated with moss mats. Ordination revealed one dominant gradient in epiphyte composition that was correlated with height. The gradient could be partitioned into an exposed portion with high lichen cover and low bryophyte cover, an intermediate portion, and a sheltered portion dominated by bryophytes. Biomass and species richness of macrolichen litterfall did not differ between the forest interior and clearcut edge, but there were some differences in the vertical distributions of epiphytes. The exposed and intermediate portions of the compositional gradient extended farther down in the crowns of the edge trees. After two decades of exposure on a clearcut edge, moss mats and associated species were still widely distributed within the edge tree crowns.
10.2307/3244306|A new species of foliose lichen, Physcia solistella Essl. & Egan, is described from central Texas, where it may be endemic. The species is characterized by the presence of numerous erect blastidia, and resembles an over-sized version of P. millegrana Degel., a very common species in much of eastern North America. Physcia solistella can be distinguished from the latter species by its larger thallus and lobes, larger ascospores, paraplectenchymatous lower cortex, and K+ yellow medulla.
10.2307/3240901|Nine bryophytes are reported as additions to the flora of Alberta. Three are mainly circumpolar in their general distribution: Temnoma setiformis, Sphagnum riparium, and Pogonatum urnigerum. Four are North American cordilleran: Claopodium bolanderi, Porotrichum neckeroides, Fontinalis neo-mexicana, and Brachythecium hylotapetum. The two other species, Riccardia multifida and Aulacomnium androgynum, occur in the temperate regions of western and eastern North America, as well as in Europe, Asia, and South America. Their ecology and geographic distribution are discussed.
10.2307/3243056|Caudalejeunea pluriplicata sp. nov. is described from Agumbe, Karnataka, India. It resembles C. lehmanniana (Gott.) Evans in most of its features except in its uniseriate first tooth of leaf lobule, highly dentate female bracteole, and pluriplicate perianth.
10.2307/3242859|Herbertus aduncus (Dicks.) Gray subsp. tenuis (Evans) Miller & Scott is reported from Newfoundland. This is the first report of the genus and family from eastern Canada. The Newfoundland populations are 1500 km from the nearest ones, which are found in southern New York State, U.S.A. The distribution of H. aduncus subsp. tenuis in eastern North America is mapped.
10.2307/3242003| Nineteen taxa of liverworts, one hornwort and one hundred twenty-five taxa of mosses are reported from Hancock County, Illinois. Only one liverwort and three species of mosses had been previously reported for the county. Sphaerocarpos texanus Aust. is a new northern distributional record. Amblystegium varium var. parvulum (Aust.) Grout, Atrichum altecristatum (Ren. & Card.) Irel., Atrichum oerstedianum (C.Muell.) Mitt., Atrichum tenellum (Roehl.) B.S.G., Barbula convoluta Hedw., Brachythecium reflexum (Starke ex Web. & Mohr) B.S.G., Grimmia anodon B.S.G., Grimmia apocarpa var. stricta (Turn.) Hook. & Tayl., Hyophila involuta (Hook.) Jaeg. & Sauerb., Leptodictyum brevipes (Card. & Thr. ex Holz.) Broth. and Mnium thomsonii Schimp. are new to Illinois. 
10.2307/3243693|Weissia (Hymenostomum) flavescens (E. G. Britt. in N. L. Britt. & Millsp.) Reese is reported new to the United States on three specimens from Big Pine Key, in the Florida Keys. It occurs on the nearby island of Grand Bahama and elsewhere in the Bahamian archipelago, Bermuda, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
10.2307/3241833|A preliminary checklist of the mosses of Idaho, based upon the collections in the Fay MacFadden Herbarium and literature reports, includes 34 families, 89 genera, and 257 species and varieties. Most of the records are from the Boise National Forest and areas adjacent to the state of Washington.
10.2307/3243204|The nomenclatural history of Entosthodon laxus (Wils. & Hook. f.) Mitt., described from Kerguelen, is traced. The phytogeographic affinities of this circum-subantarctic-Andean species have been obscured by its repeated description from various portions of its range, which is now shown to include New Zealand, mainland Australia, Tasmania, Macquarie, Kerguelen, Crozet, and Marion Islands, Chile, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, and Venezuela. Seven heterotypic names, published in Entosthodon, Funaria, and Meesia, are placed in synonymy with E. laxus. Features which distinguish E. laxus from E. gracilis (in Australasia) and E. obtusifolius (in South America) are detailed. The names E. acutifolius Hampe ex C. Muell, E. longisetus Schimp. in Besch., and E. longicollis Mitt. are placed in synonymy with E. obtusifolius Hook. f. in Hook.
10.2307/3240582|Fissidens (Bryoidium) veracruzensis and F. (Aloma) obscurocostatus from eastern Mexico are described as new.
3244767|In Yunnan Province China, ethnic peoples use five species of lichens as foods (Lobaria isidiophora, L. kurokawae, L. yoshimurae, Ramalina conduplicans, and R. sinensis) and five others as health-promoting teas (Lethariella cashmeriana, L. sernanderi, L. sinensis, Thamnolia vermicularis, and T. subuliformis). Local traditions concerning the use of these lichens are described, and the natural-product chemical constituents of each species are given.
10.2307/3242824|Arachniopsis major Herz., Barbella enervis (Thwait, & Mitt.) Fleisch. ex Broth., Breutelia arundinifolia (Dub.) Fleisch., Chaetomitriopsis glaucocarpa (Reinw.) Fleisch., Fissidens subangustus Fleisch., Macrothamnium macrocarpum (Reinw. & Hornsch.) Fleisch., Trachypus humilis Lindb. var. humilis, and Zoopsis liukiuensis Horik, are reported for the first time from Malaya.
10.2307/3242427|One hundred forty-nine species of mosses and 30 of hepatics were collected during the 1976 A. LeRoy Andrews Bryological Foray at Cranberry Lake and the bog at Sevey, New York State.
3244146|Bryophyte and vascular plant fragments were obtained from late-spring snowbeds at three localities in the Adirondack Mountains, New York. Fragment diversity in samples at alpine and krummholz sites far exceeded that at a forested site, and the diversity of bryophyte species represented by the fragments surpassed that of vascular plants. Approximately 82% of all bryophyte fragments found were in sufficiently good condition to permit identification to species or genus. Statistically significant differences in fragment species diversity occurred between the alpine sites and the forested site, but not between the two alpine sites. The consistent presence of liverworts in the alpine samples indicates that their absence from late-glacial sediments may be due more to taphonomy than either an absence of hepatics from the late-glacial flora or an inability of hepatics to disperse by gametophyte fragments. We detected only a few allochthonous fragments in our samples, and these were of bryophyte species characteristic of lower elevation balsam fir and red spruce-balsam fir forests. In alpine tundra, winter-dispersed fragments of bryophytes may serve as vegetative diaspores, providing a mechanism for rapid establishment of new populations every year following snow melt.
10.2307/3243427|An enumeration of and key to the nine taxa of Western North American Plagiochila are presented. A discussion of distinguishing characteristics and distribution maps of each taxon are provided from specimens examined. Plagiochila satoi var. magnum is newly described. Plagiochila asplenioides subsp. arctica is new to British Columbia and Northwest Territories, P. asplenioides subsp. porelloides fo. subarctica is new to Northwest Territories, P. satoi var. satoi is new to California and Oregon, and P. semidecurrens var. alaskana and var. semidecurrens are new to Oregon.
10.2307/3242555| Over 8000 lichens representing 405 taxa were collected at 128 different localities during 11 weeks collecting in the park in 1978 and 1979. Several areas of special interest to the lichen flora are noted. Eighty-eight new state records were found within these collections and all but eight of the species collected by Bruce Fink in 1901 were recollected. Three new records for North America were identified: Arthonia fuliginosa (Turn. & Borr.) Flot., Chaenothecopsis savonica (Rs.) Tibell, Lecidea epixanthoidiza Nyl. Lichens for winter food for caribou would probably not be a limiting factor in the success of any reintroduction of woodland caribou to the park. The scarcity of Xanthoria elegans was studied and is probably due to lack of wave splash. The lichen flora is rich in fruticose lichens, which suggests that no air pollution is present. 
20061072|The role of dew, fog, and rain in the development of reproductive organs in the moss Bryum dunense A. J. E. Smith & H. Whitehouse (B. bicolor complex) was examined in three different microhabitats within a dune field in the Negev Desert. Growth and reproduction were compared prior to the first rainfall of the winter and subsequently twice during the winter. The microhabitats, differing in their exposure to radiation and precipitation, were 1) an exposed site, 2) a shaded (under a shrub canopy) site, and 3) a partially shaded microhabitat at the foot of a north-facing dune slope. We hypothesized that both microhabitat and time of year would impact the reproductive strategies of the species. In all three microhabitats, reproductive organs were initiated prior to the first winter rain. The source of bryophyte wetness was atmospheric humidity from dew and fog. The type and the extent of development of the reproductive organs was habitat dependent. Prior to the rains, antheridia and archegonia were scarce in the exposed microhabitat, in small numbers in the shaded microhabitat, and most abundant in the partially shaded microhabitat. Subsequently, sporophytes were formed more often in the partially shaded microhabitat following the winter rains. Asexual propagation by bulbils was prevalent at the partially shaded and the exposed microhabitats, whereas regeneration by secondary protonemata was especially abundant at the shaded microhabitat. Bryum dunense is highly adapted to dew and fog utilization and is able to develop reproductive organs prior to the first rains. In this way, plants are prepared for dispersal by bulbils and ready for fertilization with the onset of the first rain. This early initiation of reproductive development is especially advantageous for dioicous species in unpredictable desert environments enabling the completion of the life cycle. The partially shaded microhabitat formed by the shrub canopy was found to be the most suitable microhabitat, yielding the highest amounts of sexual (antheridia and archegonia) and asexual (bulbils) organs. The shrub may thus serve as an 'island of fertility' for B. dunense.
10.2307/3243007|Chromosome numbers for nine species of mosses from southern Ohio, U.S.A. are reported as: Pleuridium acuminatum Lindb. (n = 26), Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid. (n = 13), Ditrichum pallidum (Hedw.) Hampe (n = 26), Tortella humilis (Hedw.) Jenn. (n = 13 + m), Physcomitrium pyriforme (Hedw.) Hampe (n = 26), Aulacomnium heterostichum (Hedw.) B.S.G. (n = 11), Bartramia pomiformis Hedw. (n = 8), Leskea gracilescens Hedw. (n = 11), and Hypnum curvifolium Hedw. (n = 11).
10.2307/3243376|Pseudoleskeella papillosa (Lindb.) Kindb. and Plagiothecium latebricola (Wils.) Schimp. are newly reported from China. Lopidium trichocladon (Bosch & Sande-Lac.) Fleisch. is reported new to mainland China.
10.2307/3244510|The associations between commercially harvestable mosses and their host trees or shrubs were evaluated in 20 sites in the Cascade and Coast Ranges of northwestern Oregon. In the Cascade Range, harvestable mosses were found on 150 Acer circinatum, 15 A. macrophyllum, 21 Alnus rubra, and several Acer sinuata, Corylus cornuta, Holodiscus discolor, Oemleria cerasiformis, Rhamnus purshiana, Taxus brevifolia, and Vaccinium parvifolium. In the Coast Range, 162 Acer circinatum, 11 Alnus rubra, 21 Menziesia ferruginea, 13 R. purshiana, and 71 V. parvifolium had harvestable quantities of moss. Host surface area, epiphyte biomass, species richness, and species composition differed among hosts. In both the Cascade and Coast Ranges, trees and large shrubs had higher mean species richness per sample than small shrubs. Decreasing mean species richness parallels decreasing host surface area. Although species composition differed between tree trunks and shrub stems, there were no significant differences in epiphyte mass or species richness when accounting for surface area. Seventeen epiphyte species demonstrated host preferences based on frequency of occurrence and abundance, particularly Orthotrichum lyellii for Acer circinatum and Neckera douglasii for Alnus rubra. Host preference was not always consistent between mountain ranges. Host specificity was virtually absent.
10.2307/3244087| Mycomicrothelia striguloides Srusiaux & Aptroot sp. nov. is the first foliicolous species described in the genus; it develops a Strigula-like thallus and is reported from New Zealand. 
41289814|We examined plot-level interactions among nitrogen and sulfur deposition, tree type, and epiphytic diversity, biomass, and abundance in Acadia National Park (ACAD), Maine, that receives pollutant deposition and is of particular concern for biological conservation. Spruce appeared to acidify incoming deposition resulting in more concentrated inputs of nitrogen and sulfur within the canopy as well as to the soil relative to maple. This resulted in more acidic and sulfur-rich substrates and reduced biomass and species richness for cryptogamic epiphytes on spruce relative to maple. Position vertically on the tree bole was more important for epiphytes on maples than on spruces because spruces were uniform in their bark chemistry. Apparent overlap between the bark chemistry of spruce and maple, particularly for samples from higher on maple boles, suggests a reduction in the area of chemically suitable substratum for epiphytes in ACAD. Because tree species vary markedly in habitat variables important to epiphytes, stands with a mix of deciduous and evergreen trees provide the widest gradient of habitats, which appears to be reflected in the highest species richness for epiphytes occurring in mixed stands. Air quality and forest health monitoring studies utilizing epiphytes as indicators should account for the complex effects of stand-level tree species composition to better detect biological effects of deposition at the landscape scale.
10.2307/3243349|Based on field studies and herbarium research, 46 species of lichens and lichenicolous fungi are reported new to British Columbia. The following 15 species are documented for Canada for the first time: Agonimia tristicula, Catapyrenium daedaleum, Cladonia luteoalba, Collema auriforme, Dactylospora lobariella, Fulgensia desertorum, Massalongia microphylliza, Pannaria ahlneri, Peltula euploca, Physcia callosa, Psora montana, Sticta wrightii, Usnea wirthii, Vestergrenopsis elaeina, and Xanthoparmelia planilobata. An additional nine species are new to North America north of Mexico: Acroscyphus sphaerophoroides, Biatoropsis usnearum, Hawksworthiana peltigericola, Leptogium brebissonii, L. schraderi, Lichenochora thallina, Scutula miliaris, Sphaerellothecium araneosum, and Trapelia corticola.
10.2307/3242844|Differentiation was found between populations of Funaria hygrometrica originating in various geographic-climatic regions when grown together experimentally. Of the morphological and cytological characters examined, spore size showed a significant inter-population variation with geographical correlations. An inter-regional differentiation was found in phenological-physiological traits, including reaction to day-length. The adaptational significance of these characters for the formation of a cosmopolitan species is evaluated.
10.2307/3242255|First results of the study of lichens collected from Southern Rio Grande do Sul are presented. Sixty-three species are reported; nine species are new to the known flora of Brazil and eight are new to the state.
10.2307/3241612|Scanning electron microscope analyses of sporoderms and elateroderms of 20 species of liverworts (representative of 20 genera, 17 families, and 5 orders), are presented in a series of electron micrographs (including stereo pairs), which directly emphasize the positive results. In the species studied, sporoderms exhibit a broad range of morphology and have taxonomic specificity. The structurally rigid sporoderms have bold sculpturing; the collapsible sporoderms have subdued relief and distinctive patterning. Similar architectures are found in different orders, and different architectures may be present within an order. Elateroderms generally have specific surface markings which are often best developed in the helically thickened regions, and some (e.g., Neohodgsonia) have ornamentation. Sporopollenin is a component of both sporoderms and elateroderms.
10.2307/3242082|A preliminary survey of the mosses of southern California indicates a more diversified bryoflora than was previously assumed. At present 179 taxa, representing 23 families, 173 species and 6 varieties have been collected or reported as occurring in southern California. The present checklist represents an examination of historical and recent collections as well as a thorough review of publications concerning southern California bryology.
10.2307/3241067|Mnium andrewsianum Steere is reported as new to the United States and three other taxa are cited as new to Michigan.
10.2307/3243565|Seven Brazilian species of Sphagnum are described and illustrated as new: S. buckianum in sect. Sphagnum; S. exquisitum, S. acutirameum, S. geraisense, S. divisum, S. homophyllum, and S. obliquefibrosum in sect. Subsecunda. The presence of S. irwinii in the state of Minas Gerais is recorded, together with illustrations and notes on variation.
10.2307/3241811|The growth of Marchantia polymorpha L. was stimulated by additions of finely ground ilmenite basalt and by loam-textured C-horizon substrate rich in volcanic ash. The chemical characteristics of the basalt closely resemble those of Apollo 11 lunar samples which previously were shown to stimulate growth of M. polymorpha. The C-horizon substrate, collected in the Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes, Alaska, is mostly volcanic ash but its chemistry is less similar to that of the basalt or the lunar samples. It seems apparent, though direct evidence is lacking, that the growth stimulus is the result of additional nutrients via the basalt or the volcanic ash.
10.2307/3240715|Localities in New York are reported for gemmiferous specimens of three taxa of Pohlia.
3244846|A new endemic moss from California is described and illustrated. The heterophyllous leaves and weakly cladocarpous growth pattern in crescent shaped cushions are distinctive features for this species. Although morphologically distinct from Orthotrichum, phylogenetic inferences based on variation in nucleotide sequences of the rbcL gene (cpDNA) suggest this species to be a member of Orthotrichum. Review of Orthotrichum specimens from California herbaria concluded that this species had not been collected previously. Orthotrichum kellmanii is currently restricted to a narrow band of sandstone outcrops on ridges overlooking the Pacific Ocean.
10.2307/3242000|Gigaspermum repens (Hook.) Lindl., Pleuridium nervosum (Hook.) Mitt. Erpodium hanningtonii Mitt. were collected in the southern part of Madagascar and are new for the region. The two first species are austral ones, the third known from eastern Africa.
10.2307/3243097|The known distributions of Gymnomitrion laceratum, Acrobolbus ciliatus, Plagiochila corniculata, Takakia ceratophylla and T. lepidozioides are given and discussed.
10.2307/3243999|Barbula amplexifolia (Mitt.) Jaeg. is reported from the Altai Mountains of southern Siberia as new to Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States, and is found to be distinguishable from the very similar Barbula coreensis (Card.) Saito of eastern Asia.
10.2307/3241418|Umbilicaria pertusa Rass. is reported for the first time from Africa, and its world distribution is mapped. Morphological and chemical characters support the view that U. pertusa and U. papulosa are distinct species.
10.2307/3242402|A list is given of 77 taxa of macro- and microlichens collected by Mme. Laurence de Bonneval and Bent Fredskild in four geologically well-investigated areas in northwest Greenland. The lichens are grouped in accordance with their ecological preferences and reflect to some extent the geological conditions of the region. However, the group of lichen species, which in Greenland is restricted to an alkaline soil or rock substrate, evidently is somewhat smaller than expected, considering the local abundance of calcareous rocks.
10.2307/3240786|Thirty-four species of liverworts are found in a small area of outcropping sandstone in southeastern Missouri. The flora is similar to that of areas much farther north and of relic areas in northwestern Arkansas. Bazzania trilobata and Calypogeia fissa are reported as new to the state, and five previous reports of rarities confirmed.
10.2307/3240825|Chromosome numbers of n = 8, 9, and 11 have been found in the five species of Macromitrium examined. Evidence is presented in support of an X/Y sex chromosome mechanism in which the X chromosome is larger than the Y. These morphologically distinct chromosomes occur in dioecious species having chromosome numbers of n = 8 and n = 9 and form a dimorphic bivalent at first metaphase of meiosis. In monoecious species, however, a chromosome number of n = 11 was obtained with no dimorphic bivalent. The behavior of the sex chromosomes was observed at meiosis and the X could readily be traced to half the resulting spores, the Y to the other half. Correlated with the chromosome differences was an heteropycnotic difference visible at telophase of the first and second meiotic divisions. Dioecious species were found to be heterosporous, and the range of size in spores of species of Macromitrium with n = 8 chromosomes gave a bimodal distribution. This heterospory is further related to chromosomal and heteropycnotic differences. In monoecious species all spores contained identical chromosome complements and heteropycnotic characteristics. There is some evidence to indicate that such species contain both the X and Y chromosomes.
10.2307/3241771|Four bryophyte unions are described for the coniferous and mixed-wood forests of Bird's Hill Provincial Park, Manitoba: the Aulacomnium palustre-Sphagnum capillaceum and Mnium rugicum-Thuidium recognitum unions in poorly-drained areas dominated by Picea mariana and Larix laricina; the Mnium cuspidatum union in better-drained areas forested by Picea glauca characteristically associated with Populus balsamifera; and the Amblystegium juratzkanum union in dry upland sites dominated by Picea glauca with Populus tremuloides and Quercus macrocarpa. Forest floor bryophytes appear to be more sensitive than the vascular species to differences in environmental factors such as moisture availability, thus leading to great differences in terrestrial bryophyte strata in physiognomically-like forests.
10.2307/3243864|Pseudocyphellaria halei D. J. Galloway is described from material collected from subalpine rainforest on the slopes of Mt. Rolleston on the eastern side of Arthur's Pass in Arthur's Pass National Park, New Zealand. The species has a white medulla, cyanobacterial photobiont, scabrid-areolate upper cortex, conspicuous white pseudocyphellae on the lower surface, and scattered minute white pseudocyphellae on the upper surface. It has a simple two-hopane chemistry. It is named for the late Dr. Mason E. Hale, Jr., who also made large and important collections of species of Pseudocyphellaria during three visits to New Zealand (1980, 1981, 1984) in connection with his work on speciation in Parmelia.
10.2307/3244553|The genus Rosulabryum is newly described in the Bryaceae. It comprises the species in section Capillaria (Rosulata and Trichophora) of Bryum. These species are characterized by rosulate leaves that are obovate with denticulate to serrate upper margins and have Rhodobryum-like areolation, rhizoidal tubers, capsules with unreduced peristomes, and small spores. In all, 54 taxa are considered to belong to the new genus, of which 11 are transferred in this study. Bryum albolimbatum (Hampe) Jaeg. is selected as the type species. Relationships with other genera in the Bryaceae are discussed, and a key to the new genus and related genera is provided. Notes on ecology and distribution are included.
10.2307/3240603|In New Zealand the Thamnolia population is composed of about 98% T. vermicularis (Sw.) Ach. ex Schaer. and 2% T. subuliformis (Ehrh.) W. Culb. This proportion agrees well with the worldwide quantitative distribution pattern of the two species.
3244779| Rinodina intermedia Bagl. is distinguished from R. conradii Krb. on the basis of its Type-A spore development, submuriform spores, and the presence of a new lichen substance, deoxylichesterinic acid. Both species are primarily ground dwelling and are mostly allopatric in their North American and world distributions, R. intermedia being warm temperate whereas R. conradii is cold temperate. Both species occur in Colorado, the Andes, and Himalaya Mountains, R. conradii being found at higher elevations. Rinodina diplinthia (Nyl.) Zahlbr., R. darrovii E. D. Rudolph, and R. conradii var. megaspora D. D. Awasthi & M. R. Agarwal are placed into synonomy for the first time. Lectotypes for R. lusitanica Arnold and R. sabulosa Tuck, are selected. 
10.2307/3242778|Sphagnum rubroflexuosum, sp. nov is reported from western Pennsylvania, U.S.A. and is distinguished from related S. recurvum s.l. species by its 3-10 pores per cell on the convex branch leaf surface. Sphagnum flexuosum var. ramosissimum, var. nov. is recognized by having up to seven branches per fascicle.
23321052|A species of Lecanora in the L. dispersa group, with a well-developed pale thallus and a heavily pruinose apothecia, resembling superficially among others L. poeltiana, is found on shaded vertical calcareous cliff faces and is described here as Lecanora carlottiana sp. nov. The species is recorded mainly on northern portions of the Niagara Escarpment, as well as from other calcareous rock cliffs on Manitoulin Island, and Algonquin Provincial Park in Ontario, Canada.
10.2307/3241103|Sixteen families, 27 genera, and 72 species of Hepaticae are listed from the Philippines.
41486728|Biological soil crusts are ecosystem engineers in arid and semi-arid habitats; they affect soil chemistry, stability, and vegetation. Their ecosystem functions may vary depending on species composition; however, lichen species diversity is poorly known in the Pacific Northwestern drylands of North America. We sampled 59 random and 20 intuitive plots throughout central and eastern Oregon identifying 99 lichen taxa, 33 of which occurred in only one plot and seven of which were new to Oregon (Acarospora obpallens, A. terricola, Catapyrenium psoromoides y Placidium fingens, P. pilosellum, P. yoshimurae and Psora luridella). We compile records from herbaria and other studies to evaluate the rarity of observed species and potentially rare species known from nearby locations. We conclude that 37 species are likely rare uncommon in our study area. Many of these appear to be associated with calcareous substrates. We model occurrences in relation to climate and soil variables for four uncommon lichen species: Acarospora schleichen, Fuscopannaria cyanolepra, Rhizocarpon diploschistidina, and Texosporium sancti-jacobi. Based on climate and soil variables, we map regions of Oregon that may support new populations of these species and overlay habitats unsuitable for biotic crusts due to development and agriculture. These species, except Fuscopannaria cyanolepra, are strongly associated with the fine soils along the Columbia and Treasure Valleys that are most intensively used for agriculture. We anticipate that our summaries will further the understanding of lichen component of biological soil crust communities in eastern Oregon and suggest focal species for future conservation efforts.
10.2307/3242557|Twenty-one additions are made to the Oklahoma moss flora and further county distributions are provided for 119 species. A total of 189 species have now been verified for Oklahoma.
3244161|Sphagnum-dominated peatlands occupy extensive tracts of land throughout the Boreal and Subarctic regions of North America, extending north onto the Low Arctic of the Canadian Shield and south along the west coast of Oregon, Rocky Mountains of Wyoming, and Appalachians of West Virginia. In addition, short pocosins found along the southeastern coast also can be considered as Sphagnum-dominated peatlands, even though they differ significantly from traditional concepts of boreal peatlands. Along the southern limit of Sphagnum-dominated peatlands, where climate is limiting, edaphic factors allow for the development of outliers. As the current distribution of Sphagnum-dominated peatlands is related to Sphagnum spore rain, past distributions of Sphagnum-dominated peatlands can be constructed from spore records preserved in lakes and peatlands. Here we present six time slices extending back to the Last Glacial Maximum to determine how Sphagnum-dominated peatlands have varied in both time and space. The spore record indicates that Sphagnum-dominated peatlands were present in North America during the Last Glacial Maximum although they were spatially limited to central Alaska, the Olympic Peninsula and Puget Trough of Washington, and to a narrow band in the eastern states of Kentucky, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Maryland. During the Late Wisconsinan Sphagnum-dominated peatlands shifted northwards in eastern North America and expanded farther into Alaska and the Midwest. The Late Wisconsinan/Holocene transition marks a time of overall increase in the area supporting Sphagnum-dominated peatlands, while extending farther in eastern Canada and western continental and coastal regions, they almost completely disappear in the Midwest where they were extensive earlier. Sphagnum-dominated peatlands generally reach their current extent about 2,000-3,000 years ago. Sphagnum-dominated peatlands have dramatically changed their distribution and abundance since the Last Glacial Maximum, and hence the carbon that is stored in these present-day important sinks has also changed dramatically. When compared to the estimated 220 Pg of carbon stored in North American peatlands today, less than 10% of this carbon was present in these peatland during the LGM.
10.2307/3240824|The vegetation of lichens and bryophytes on limestone outcrops in the Driftless Area of Wisconsin belongs to a single community consisting of two ecological groups, one on drier habitats and the other on moister ones. The vegetation was studied by a random sampling method involving 25 5-cm-square quadrats for each stand. Frequency data are used in the statistical analysis of the vegetation. An ordination technique analyzes the relationship of the 44 stands sampled and the ecological factors within them. Frequency data for selected species are presented on a three-dimensional ordination. The results show a vegetational continuum related to a moisture gradient. Frequency data present a better differentiation on the ordination than presence data.
40982961|New combinations are proposed for three Neotropical moss species following the transfer of Barbuta uncinicoma to Gertrudiella and of Cyrto-hypnum sharpii to Pelekium. Furthermore Gertrudia validinervis is considered a synonym of G. uncinicoma and its variety serratopungens (Herzog) is maintained within the latter as Gertrudiella uncinicoma var. serratopungens (Herzog) G. Surez & M. Schiavone. Pelekium sharpii, a Central American species is recorded for the first time for South America from Bolivia and Argentina.
10.2307/3243572|The lichen Thamnolia is reported for the first time from California. The distribution of the genus in the western U.S. and Canada as mapped by M. Sato is corrected, and a new map is provided.
10.2307/3241726|The stomates in sporophytes of Funaria hygrometrica open during the 4th day of capsule expansion, under greenhouse conditions. From the 5th through the 10th days after initial capsule expansion all stomates respond to darkness by closing. The stomates can be reopened by light and closed by the application of abscisic acid. We conclude that at this stage of capsule development the behavior of stomates in Funaria parallels the behavior of stomates in flowering plants. The responsiveness of stomates to environmental stimuli declines as the capsule ripens, and in the late stages of ripening about half of the stomates remain open in the light and in the dark.
10.2307/3242027|When handled, gamma irradiated lichen thalli often break apart more easily then non-irradiated ones. A tensile testing apparatus was designed to determine if there was a significant difference between the breaking points of irradiated and non-irradiated thalli. Preliminary data, using Cladonia mitis podetia, have shown there is a significant difference. Non-irradiated podetia have an average tensile strength of 386 gm/mm
10.2307/3242475|Carotenoids begin to form during the first six hours of spore germination in Polytrichum commune Hedw., when spore swelling and germ tube protrusion are taking place. Thus, carotenoid synthesis commences before the first chloroplast replication. The 72-hour-old sporelings contained carotenes (292%), violaxanthin (789%), lutein + antheraxanthin (379%), neoxanthin (334%) and zeaxanthin (689%), compared with the contents of ungerminated spores. The ratio of carotenes to xanthophylls changes during germination: the ungerminated spores contain 32% carotenes and 68% xanthophylls; 72-hour-old sporelings, 23% carotenes and 77% xanthophylls. During germination the amount of carotenoids per chloroplast decreases.
20110905|Spatial distribution is a critical component of population structure and reflects, depending on the scale, relationships between organisms and the biotic and abiotic environment, but has been poorly investigated in the case of bryophytes. The objective of this study was to describe the spatial distribution of Bryopteris filicina at two spatial scales: 1) along porophyte tree trunks in the Lacandona Forest of Chiapas, Mexico, and 2) among three sites with contrasting degree of conservation. We expected to find larger Bryopteris filicina populations in well-preserved conditions, compared to disturbed areas and on non-smooth trunk surfaces, rather than on smooth trunks. A modification of the Canfield line protocol was used to quantify the distribution of B. filicina. This species was found on a total of 142 trees, but it was over-represented on Ampelocera hottlei, Brosimum alicastrum and Guarea glabra. Height, within the range studied (0-2m), bark texture and orientation are good predictors of the presence of B. filicina between the studied sites in the Selva Lacandona. Bryopteris filicina tends to be more abundant on trees with smooth texture, oriented towards north in Chajul and Loma Bonita and South in Ixcn. Resumen. La distribucin espacial es un componente de la estructura del hbitat y refleja, dependiendo de la escala, las relaciones entre individuos. El objetivo de este estudio es el de describir la distribucin espacial de Bryopteris filicina sobre troncos de rboles. Tambin se compara la distribucin entre troncos de rboles de las regiones de Chajul, Loma Bonita e Ixcn dentro de la Selva Lacandona, Chiapas, Mxico. Esperamos encontrar poblaciones de B. filicina ms grandes y saludables en el bosque con mejores condiciones de conservacin. Con el fin de describir la distribucin de B. filicina se utiliz el mtodo de la lnea de Canfield. Encontramos a B. filicina en 142 rboles, principalmente Ampelocera hottlei, Brosimum alicastrum y Guarea glabra. La altura sobre el intervalo estudiado, textura de la corteza y orientacin, son tiles para predecir la presencia de B. filicina sobre rboles de los diferentes sitios estudiados en la Selva Lacandona.
3244771| The moss Didymodon tectorum (C. Mll.) Saito of Asia is newly reported for North America based on specimens previously reported as Didymodon reedii Robins. (a new synonym) and Didymodon brachyphyllus (Sull.) Zander, which remains a good species. A key to species of the Didymodon vinealis complex in North America is presented. Didymodon tectorum and D. brachyphyllus are described and illustrated and their North American distribution is mapped. The problem of the first valid publication of Barbula brachyphylla is briefly discussed. Barbula ferrinervis C. Mll, horn, illeg. (= B. feruginervis Broth.) is reduced to synonymy with Barbula indica (Hook.) Spreng. var. indica. 
10.2307/3242855| Chromosome numbers for eight species of mosses from Pennsylvania and New York, USA, are reported: Barbula unguiculata Hedw. (n = 13 + 1 m), Pottia truncata (Hedw.) Frnr. ex B.S.G. (n = 26), Aphanorrhegma serratum (J. Hook. & Wils. ex Drumm.) Sull. (n = 27), Bryum argenteum Hedw. (n = 10), Brachythecium rutabulum (Hedw.) B.S.G. (n = 12), Callicladium haldanianum (Grev.) Crum (n = 22), Pogonatum pensilvanicum (Hedw.) P.-Beauv. (n = 7), and Atrichum altecristatum (Ren. & Card.) Irel. 
25614895|Habitat segregation between two closely related Pohlia species, P. annotina and P. drummondii, was documented on the basis of field observations at higher elevations in Yakushima Island, supplemented with molecular analysis to confirm the species identities. Both species, belonging to the P. annotina complex, grow on bare soils and have similar gametophytic features as well as heavy dependence on asexual reproduction by propagules produced in leaf axils. The species show a clear difference in habitat preference: P. drummondii is strictly confined to invariably wet or moist soils such as at the edge of bog swamps or streamlets in mountain trails excavated by heavy rains, while P. annotina is mostly found in less humid habitats even if both species sometimes grow side-by-side. A phylogenetic tree using rbcL sequences confirmed that P. annotina, P. drummondii and P. flexuosa, another member of the complex, represent distinct species. In addition to the usual vermicular propagules, Japanese plants of P. annotina and P. flexuosa were shown for the first time to have several other kinds of propagules, as also found in European and American plants. Morphological changes during propagule development in Japanese P. drummondii are also reported.
41289784|Three prominent life history patterns attributed to dioecious species of mosses (low sex expression, male rarity, and low frequencies of sexual reproduction) were investigated in the desert moss Syntrichia caninervis along an elevation gradient in the Spring Mountains of the Mojave Desert (U.S.A.). Low elevation patches exhibited significantly lower frequencies of sex expression, individuals with fewer inflorescences, and fewer male individuals. Sexual reproduction was infrequent at all elevations, with only seven of 85 patches showing evidence of recent sporophyte production and only nine of 708 perichaetia being fertilized. After factoring out abortive sporophytes, the percentage of patches maturing sporophytes was 5.9% and the estimated fraction of fertilized perichaetia was 0.7%. In addition, as elevation increased from low to middle/high elevation, individuals of Syntrichia caninervis exhibited significant increases in biomass, total stem length, number of ramets, and ramet length. The decreased availability of water at lower elevations may stunt individual plant size, inhibiting sex expression, and promoting growth of female-only individuals, thereby depressing sexual reproduction. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that male rarity may be caused in part by differential desiccation tolerance between the sexes, with males less able to tolerate repeated cycles of hydration and desiccation due to their higher energetic requirements for sex expression.
10.2307/3240517| Pottia intermedia (Turn.) Frn., collected in Grey County, Ontario, is new to the flora of North America. It differs from its closest relative, P. truncata, in its long, cylindric, annulate capsules; its papillose, revolute leaves; and the occurrence of a rudimentary peristome in some plants. 
10.2307/3242086|Grimmia pacifica sp. nov. from Oregon and California resembles several members of Grimmia subgenus Schistidium in having long, narrow leaves, but differs mainly in having short, hyaline hair points on most vegetative leaves.
10.2307/3243429|Lecanactis dimelaenoides and L. nashii, found in Baja California (Mexico), are discussed and proposed as new. They are characterized by their Grumulosa-type asci, ascospores transversely multiseptate and surrounded by a thick gelatinous sheath, and thallus C+ reddish. Lecanactis dimelaenoides differs from L. nashii by its roundish ascocarps and its wider asci and ascospores. Both species grow in coastal saxicolous ombrophobous communities.
3244816|Pseudocyphellaria perpetua McCune & Miadlikowska is described as a new species of lichenized fungus from Oregon, U.S.A. Morphologically similar to some forms of P. crocata, P. perpetua is separated from that species by a yellow medulla and predominantly marginal soralia. Comparison of ITS and LSU nrDNA sequences support taxonomic distinctness of these two species. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted on LSU and ITS nrDNA data sets separately and simultaneously using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood as optimization criteria. All analyses except one (maximum parsimony on LSU nrDNA data alone) confirmed the monophyly of P. perpetua. There are two distinct groups within the P. perpetua clade represented by specimens sampled from near the type locality in Oregon, and specimens outside of Oregon (eastern Canada, eastern Russia and eastern U.S.A.). The genus Pseudocyphellaria is very likely polyphyletic, consisting of at least two highly divergent groups.
20110881|Meinungeria mouensis is described as a new genus and species of the Lepidoziaceae from New Caledonia. The new taxon is characterized by white to light green, worm-like, creeping, nearly leafless stems. It differs from all other genera of the Lepidoziaceae in its unique stem anatomy and in the presence of reduced leaves and underleaves composed of 3-4 radially arranged single cells. The transverse section of the stem is composed of a large-celled echlorophyllose hyaloderm (of 9-11 cells with thickened radial walls becoming thicker from the inner to the outer side) surrounding a single layer of 8-9 smaller, thin-walled, chlorophyllose cells and a central strand of 5-7 echlorophyllose, thick-walled cells with yellowish to light brown walls. The species were found on open soil in maquis vegetation on ultrabasic substrates in the southeastern part of the island.
20110941|Five moss species were found in the high intertidal zone of salt marshes in Nova Scotia, eastern Canada. This is the first report of bryophytes from salt marshes from North America. In each of the salt marshes where mosses occurred, one to three moss species occurred in monospecific or mixed species assemblages. Campylium stellatum and Bryum capillare were the most common species, followed by Didymodon rigidulus, Mnium hornum and Amblystegium serpens in decreasing abundance. All mosses were present below the litter line and occurred in association with Juncus arcticus and J. gerardii, although some collections were also made in association with Spartina pectinata and S. patens. The mosses were exposed in situ to seawater of &gt 20 ppt. In a laboratory experiment, mats of C. stellatum were exposed to a range of salinities (0, 8, 16, 32 ppt); plants survived 24 h of immersion in seawater of 32 ppt followed by four days in which mats were fully saturated with seawater. There was a slight reduction in effective quantum yield of photosystem II (
10.2307/3242981|Forty lichen species collected in Rio Grande do Sul are listed. Heterodermia hypochraea, Parmelia hypoleucites, P. subpraesignis and Parmotrema austrosinense are added to the known flora of Brazil. Pycnothelia papillaria is reported for South America for the first time.
10.2307/3243351|The study of carotenoids in 20 taxa of Cladonia from North America revealed antheraxanthin, astaxanthin, canthaxanthin, capsochrome, -apo-2'carotenal, -carotene, -carotene, -cryptoxanthin, -doradexanthin, 3'-epilutein, flavoxanthin, lutein, lutein epoxide, mutatoxanthin, violaxanthin, and zeaxanthin. The total carotenoid content of the material ranged from 10.93 g g
41289759|Three species have been formerly segregated from Metzgeria in the genus Apometzgeria. One of the species, A. frontipilis, is endemic to South America but the second, A. pubescens, is currently understood as having a bipolar range with populations across the Holarctic and in southern South America. The third species, A. longifrondis, was described from China (and is not included in this study). Species of bryophytes that range across continents and have little or no morphological variation among populations may nevertheless harbor morphologically cryptic genetic lineages. We used nuclear and plastid sequence data to examine the phylogenetic relationship between Apometzgeria and Metzgeria, and phylogeographic patterns in taxa assigned to Apometzgeria. Two species often assigned to Apometzgeria are phylogenetically embedded within Metzgeria in two separate clades, one comprising all Holarctic A. pubescens and a second with A. pubescens from South America and all accessions of A. frontipilis. Phylogenetic and haplotype analyses reveal a lack of phylogeographic structure among A. pubescens plants from throughout its Holarctic distribution. However, A. pubescens in South America is more closely related to A. frontipilis and species of Metzgeria from South America than to any A. pubescens from the Northern Hemisphere. Thus, A. pubescens is Holarctic in distribution and morphologically similar plants form a divergent lineage in South America. Our results do not support Apometzgeria as a separate genus in the Metzgeriaceae.
10.2307/3243460|Sphagnum tenerum var. virginicum, described from coastal Virginia and the Dominican Republic, differs from var. tenerum in having branches in fascicles of 4-5 and pores consistently in the epidermal cells of stems.
10.2307/3244021|Enzymes associated with sucrose metabolism in higher plants were found in the eight species of bryophytes examined here. Seven species of moss and a liverwort, Conocephalum conicum, were all found to have sucrose synthase, glucokinase, fructokinase, UDP-glucopyrophosphorylase, and phosphoglucomutase activities. ATP-dependent phosphofructokinase activity was found in all but Atrichum angustatum while PPi- dependent phosphofructokinase activity was found in over half the species examined. Fructose 2,6-bisphosphate, at a concentration of one micromolar, had no activating effect on the PPi-dependent phosphofructokinase activity seen in this study. In extracts from Aulacomnium palustre and Mnium affine, we found neutral invertase activity but not acid invertase. Both gametophytic and sporophytic tissues of Bryum capillare and Funaria hygrometrica were found to contain the same glycolytic enzymes; however, different levels of activity were detected in the different tissues. Collectively, these results demonstrate that the enzymes of the sucrose synthase pathway are present in bryophytes for feeding sucrose into their cellular metabolism.
10.2307/3241862|Exogenous gibberellic acid application induced ultrastructural changes in chloroplasts of Marchantia polymorpha. Starch grains disappeared and membrane development was accompanied by an increase in granal thickness and length until dense, parallel arrays of thylakoids extended throughout the plastid. This event was associated with concomitant modification of the stroma; what was previously electron translucent became electron dense. The growth retardants HIMT, CCC and Phosfon D (4-hydroxy-5-isopropyl-2-methylphenyl trimethylammonium chloride-1-piperidine carboxylate, 2-chloroethyl-trimethyl-ammonium chloride and 2,4-dichlorobenzyltributylphosphonium chloride, respectively) repressed the ultrastructural variation associated with gibberellin. The relevance of this response to normal morphogenesis in this hepatic is discussed.
10.2307/3241285|Excised setae segments from sporophytes of axenically cultured Lophocolea heterophylla were treated with exogenous IAA at concentrations ranging from 10
3244806| The Australasian lichen species Ramalea cochleata Mll. Arg. is placed into the new genus Notocladonia S. Hammer as Notocladonia cochleata (Mll. Arg.) S. Hammer. It is joined by a previously undescribed species from Australasia, N. undulata S. Hammer, a closed-axil, squamulose species with undulating apothecial tissue. Both species contain divaricatic and usnic acids. The Australasian species of Notocladonia are distinguished from species in the neotropical genus Ramalea Nyl. s. str. on the basis of their gross morphology, which is characterized by apically-borne apothecial tissue. In contrast, the species of Ramalea bear vegetative podetial tissue that grows above the apothecium. The lectotype for Ramalea tribulosa Nyl., the type species of the genus, is designated here. 
10.2307/3241897| The study of a Stereocaulon virgatum Ach. sample, collected in August 1974 at the Soufrire volcano in Guadeloupe, shows the following chemical constitution: atranorin, norstictic and stictic acids. With such a constitution this species might be recognized as a chemical race. One form, however, Stereocaulon virgatum fo. primaria Vain is known to contain atranorin and salazinic acid. 
20110902|The present monitoring study was undertaken to analyze the impact of atmospheric pollution on the lichens found near a power station in northern Spain. Data from 565 relevs gathered on 113 sites were analyzed. In areas near the power station the lichen species belong to the Xanthorion community. In areas away from the power station and that are not under the influence of dominant winds, the lichenic diversity increases and the species present belong to the Parmelion community. In intermediate areas between the two, there is a great increase in lichen diversity, in these areas there is a replacement of the species that typically belong to the Xanthorion community, by species typical of the Parmelion community. Because of this we propose the analysis of the number of lichen species together with the distribution of bioindicator taxa as a complement to lichen diversity analysis in biomonitoring studies.
10.2307/3240903|Three species currently classified in the genus Physcia-P. papillulifera Nyl., P. persoredians Nyl., and P. aspera Magn.-are transferred to the genus Dirinaria and Physcia askotensis Awasthi is reported as synonymous with P. dilatala Nyl.
10.2307/3243549|Aneura pinguis (L.) Dum., Calliergonella cuspidata (Hedw.) Loeske, and Campylium stellatum (Hedw.) C. Jens. are reported new to Missouri from calcareous fens of the eastern Ozarks. Aneura occurs farther south in Arkansas and Oklahoma, but the Calliergonella and Campylium are disjunct and at the southernmost known limits of their ranges in the Midwest. It is probable that these fens in Missouri provide relict habitats for species that were more widespread in the lower Midwest during Pleistocene full glacial time. Calliergonella is documented from Alberta, Canada as well.
10.2307/3243723|Leaflike propagula of Aulacomnium heterostichum (Hedw.) B.S.G. were found for the first time in Japan. Based on herbarium specimens, these propagula appear to be common in Asia; about 80% of the collections examined bear leaflike propagula on pseudopodia.
10.2307/3241588|The growth rate of a single lobe of Parmelia caperata was measured at intervals of 11 to 53 days for one year. Measurements were made on photographic prints enlarged to 20x, using white algae-free spots on the thallus surface as reference points. Growth occurred throughout the year but was most rapid in May-June (0.05 mm/day) when enlargement of the white spots indicated expansion of the fungal component. Each major lobe produces new lobes from two or more (up to 5 or 6) marginal bulges, but at maturity the more lateral bulges atrophy and only two or three apical lobes continue growth. Most vertical growth occurs within 1 mm of the lobe tips with cessation 1.5-2.0 mm back from the tip. Horizontal growth (increase in lobe width) is not so rapid as vertical growth and ceases when the lobe reaches about 2.5 cm in width.
10.2307/3240902| An attempt was made to fractionate water-soluble pigments produced in a culture medium by the lichen fungus Acarospora fuscata (Nyl.) Arn. The fungus was isolated from ascospores and cultured in a liquid medium. After 37 days, the pigments were extracted into various solvents, the best being iso-butanol. Maximum yields of pigment were less than 2% of the total solids of the medium. Iso-butanol extracts permitted recovery of 61% of the pigment based on 520 m absorption. Paper chromatography indicated the presence of 5-7 pigments, two of which accounted for 60% of the extracted pigment. No correlation with ultraviolet absorption could be established but infrared analysis clearly distinguished the three major fractions. The purer the fractions, the more labile they were to light and air. 
10.2307/3240629|Nine species of mosses collected in eastern Mexico are additions to the flora of that country. Data for the collections and the general distribution for each species are given.
3244838|The community structure of saxicolous lichens on 73 rock faces within a 4-kilometer radius of the active fumarole of Mt. Tokachi, Hokkaido, Japan, was investigated. Within the 545 samples collected, 89 lichen taxa were recognized. The number of species in each quadrat was highly affected by distance from the fumarole compared to the other seven environmental factors examined. Ordination (canonical correspondence analysis, CCA) also showed that distance from the fumarole was the strongest factor for the first axis, while uncommon species were recognized as being closer to the fumarole. Neighboring species analysis indicated three major colonizing groups: 1) stress endurable or clinging species, 2) transitional colonizers, and 3) later colonizers. Some species such as Micarea sp.1, Lecanora sp.1, and Lecanora polytropa colonize stressful habitats with less competition. The early stage of colonization in these areas appears to be facilitated by locating adjacent to the first colonizer.
10.2307/3240833|Rhabdoweisia crenulata (Mitt.) Jameson, collected in McDowell County, North Carolina, is new to North America.
10.2307/3243332|Syrrhopodon autotomaius Reese sp. nov. is described from Honduras, Dept. Olancho. Plants of the new species lack the uniseriate foliar gemmae characteristic of the majority of the Calymperaceae, but appear to utilize regular dehiscence of highly modified elongate slender leaf tips for asexual reproduction. Sporophytes are also produced.
43188715|Blindia Bruch & Schimp. is represented in southern South America by eight species. Of these, B. buckii B.K. Andreas, B. rigida B.K. Andreas and B. serrata B.K. Andreas, from the Cape Horn Archipelago, are newly described and illustrated herein. Sporophyte descriptions and the sexuality of B. inundata and B. torrentium are reported for the first time. Species descriptions and a key to species from southern South America are presented.
10.2307/3243127|Plagiothecium berggrenianum Frisv. is newly reported from North America and its known distribution in North America and the European Arctic is mapped.
10.2307/3241216|Tortula vectensis E. Warb. & Crundw., a little-known moss, was observed in nature in southern Louisiana and under laboratory culture. Only archegoniate and sterile plants are known. This moss exhibits remarkable drought tolerance, and regenerates readily from various parts. The morphology and biology of T. vectensis and similarities to other species of Tortula are discussed.
10.2307/3242422|A new species from Peru, Desmatodon steereanus, is similar in some ways to D. heimii var. arctica (Lindb.) Crum but differs most strikingly in having leaves of innovations remotely spaced, squarrose-spreading, deeply concave and cucullate at the apex.
10.2307/3242394|The monotypic genus Edrudia (Teloschistaceae) resembles Polycauliona Hue (Placodium sect. Thamnoma Tuck.) but is distinguished by the simple ascospores, filiform pycnidiospores and dorsiventrally compressed thallus branches.
10.2307/3241212|Anatomical study of developmental stages of the sporophyte of living Odontoschisma prostratum (Sw.) Trev. revealed that the conspicuous swelling of the female branch during sporophyte development is correlated with a remarkably strong growth of the sporophyte foot. Thus, the enlargement of the female branch must not be looked upon as a "perigynium precursor." The anatomy of the seta supplies new evidence for a close taxonomic relationship between Odontoschisma Dum. and Cladopodiella Buch.
3244773| A taxonomic study of corticolous species of Lecanora in the Sonoran Desert region containing usnic acids and not belonging to Lecanora s. str. is presented. Descriptions, notes on the ecology and distribution and a key to the 17 species recognized within the area are included. Lecanora coniferarum Printzen, L. latens Printzen, L. perconfusa Printzen, and L. substrobilina Printzen are described as new to science. The following new combinations are proposed: Lecanora densa (liwa & Wetmore) Printzen, L. laxa (liwa & Wetmore) Printzen, and L. americana (B. de Lesd.) Printzen. 
25614901|Four new species of Halecania, H. etayoana (saxicolous) and H. fuscopannariae (lichenicolous) both from South America, and H. laevis and H. pannarica, both saxicolous from Europe, are described as new to science. Their ecology, distribution and chemistry are discussed.
10.2307/3243968| Gigaspermum repens (Hook.) Lindb. is a new record for the Americas and Bruchia paricutinensis is described as new from the state of Michoacn. The range of Pringleella pleuridioides Card. is extended to the state of Mxico, from which we report the second record of the species. 
10.2307/3243730| Syrrhopodon gardneri (Hook.) Schwaegr. is reported for the first time in Australia, from Northern Territory, and Calymperes graeffeanum C. Mll., C. porrectum Mitt., and Syrrhopodon ciliatus (Hook.) Schwaegr. are new records for Northern Territory. 
3244585|A revisionary study of the genus Ptychomitrium showed that Ptychomitrium balansae Besch. and P. microblastum (C. Muell.) Par. are new synonyms of P. muelleri (Mitt.) Jaeg. The study markedly expands the geographical range of P. muelleri from Australia to New Caledonia, South America and South Africa. Ptychomitrium muelleri is an important species in the floral relationships between Australia, South America, and South Africa in the genus Ptychomitrium.
25614868|Bryophyte communities are highly sensitive to moisture and/or humidity levels. Most studies on the subject focus on bryophytes on either tree or ground habitats and do not consider how bryophytes partition themselves across both ground and epiphytic substrates within the same forest. Sampling mesic temperate forest sites of the same physiognomy from two Tasmanian regions with slightly different moisture levels (a wetter northwest versus a drier northeast region), we examine various aspects of the community structure (overall liverwort and moss cover; species richness; and liverwort to moss ratios) of both tree and ground communities with respects to moisture availability. We then test the hypothesis that a wetter site will exhibit a greater magnitude of bryophytes inhabiting both tree and ground habitats. Results of the analyses show that the ground habitat in the northwest sites exhibited a significantly higher mean species richness, higher overall and mean liverwort to moss ratio, and a higher liverwort cover than the northeast sites. This suggests that the northwest had a more ameliorated ground microclimate than the northeast. In terms of habitat partitioning, a significantly higher percentage of taxa occupied both tree and ground habitats in the northwest, compared to the northeast, which exhibited a higher percentage of taxa restricted to trees. It is proposed that within a single vegetation type, a higher site moisture level may create microclimates conducive to more bryophyte species in both tree and ground habitats, especially the latter, thereby enabling taxa to colonize and coexist on both substrates more freely.
10.2307/3240609|Field observations on colonies of Splachnum ampullaceum Hedw. in Isle Royale National Park, Michigan, and laboratory cultures maintained for three years without decline in vigor indicate a possible interrelationship between nutrient and pH factors to explain the habitual decline of colonies in nature.
20061141|Buxbaumia minakatae S. Okamura was first reported for Pennsylvania from Allegheny County as B. indusiata Brid. A reexamination of this collection confirmed its identity. New distribution records of Buxbaumia minakatae are also added for Fayette and Westmoreland counties. The differences separating B. minakatae and B. aphylla are seta size, capsule orientation, and urn shape. A lectotype of B. subcylindrica Grout is chosen from the Grout herbarium in DUKE.
10.2307/3241925| Ancistrodes Mont. is the correct generic name for the moss called Duseniella by Brotherus (1909) and Bryodusenia by Robinson (1974). The combination Ancistrodes genuflexa (C. Mll.) Crosby is made. 
3244840|Three lichen transplant experiments examined the effect of height in the canopy on the growth rates of four lichen species, using the Wind River Canopy Crane in an old-growth Pseudotsuga-Tsuga forest in the Cascade Range of southern Washington. A total of 40 to 100 transplants were used for each species, and growth was measured over a one-year period. We then compared the vertical profiles of growth rates to the vertical profiles of natural abundance. The vertical pattern of abundance of Letharia vulpina more or less corresponded with the vertical pattern in growth rates. The other two species for which we had vertical profiles in both abundance (realized niche) and growth of transplants (fundamental niche) showed some potentially important discrepancies between the two niche spaces. Usnea peaked in abundance at the highest levels in the canopy, but appeared to reach a maximum growth rate at about 30 m. The treetop environment is evidently ideal for Usnea, and its capacity for rapid growth suggests that it is a vigorous competitor. Lobaria oregana peaked in abundance at 25-30 m, while its growth rates were maximal considerably higher in the canopy, at 40-45 m. We must conclude that some aspect of establishment or competition has a pronounced negative effect on L. oregana above about 35 m in the 65-m-high canopy. Further experiments are needed to test the hypotheses that these cyanolichens fail in the upper canopy because of competition, or that they fail by an inability to tolerate rare microclimatic extremes, such as low temperatures.
10.2307/3242525|Rhabdowesia crenulata (Mitt.) Jameson is new to South America from the second known station in the New World. Erythrophyllopsis andina (Sull.) Zander is a new combination for Trichostomum andinum Sull., which includes E. fuscula (C.Muell.) Hilp. in synonymy, and is new to Colombia.
41289766|A short revision of the vagrant Aspicilia species of North America is presented based on morphological, molecular and ecological data. Vagrant Aspicilia are common lichens throughout the steppes of the western United States and in southwestern parts of Canada. Species delimitation of these lichens is difficult because of the paucity of morphological characters and large degree of variation. Inferences from nuITSrDNA sequences reveals that the North American specimens of A. fruticulosa are not most closely related to their Eurasian populations but instead share a unique ancestor with A. hispida. The specimens of A. fruticulosa from the New World are hereby recognized as a distinct species, A. rogeri. Its differentiation from the similar A. fruticulosa and A. hispida is discussed. The exclusion of A. fruticulosa from the N. American checklist is proposed temporarily.
10.2307/3244309|An examination of a range of specimens of Weissia sweetii Bartr. and Weissia perligulata Flow, indicates that the two species should be considered conspecific, and confirms placement in Trichostomum. Trichostomum sweetii is endemic to the southwestern United States and known from eight localities.
10.2307/3244182| Scaphophyllum Inoue, a monotypic segregate from Anastrophyllum (Spruce) Steph., agrees with Hattoria Schust. and Gottschelia Grolle in unlobed leaves, bilateral gymnoecia, collenchymatous cells and other criteria; it fails to fit in Jamesonielloideae or Lophozioideae because of the lack of a female bracteole. The canoe-shaped, deeply canaliculate and transverse leaves give it a wholly distinct aspect from other genera of Jungermanniaceae, sensu lato. The genus lacks clear links to others of that family and specifically to Jungermannioideae and must be retained in a separate subfamily, Scaphophylloideae Schust. The single species, S. speciosum (Horik.) Inoue is divided into the type subspecies speciosum with perianths armed below the apex with low tubercles and restricted to Taiwan, and subspecies villosum Schust., n. subsp., with perianth surfaces densely covered by long (t0 300-325 m) rhizoid-like cilia and known only from Bhutan and Yunnan, China. 
10.2307/3242790|During recent years, in response to an increased awareness of the adverse consequences of air pollution and environmental degradation, the government has enacted legislation that is of interest to lichenologists. This paper discusses the role of lichen research in the development of this legislation or in decisions made as a result of the legislation. The major acts of interest are the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 and the Clean Air Act of 1970 and its 1977 amendments. Under NEPA, the federal government announced its commitment to maintain and enhance the environmental quality of the United States. Under the Clean Air Act, the Environmental Protection Agency was authorized to establish the National Ambient Air Quality Standards; the Prevention of Significant Deterioration Class I, II and III areas; and the "adverse impact" determination for Class I areas. After review of the air pollution literature, comparison of the effects of gaseous sulfur dioxide on photosynthesis in lichens and vascular plants showed that some lichens (1) may not be as sensitive as some crops, (2) may be more sensitive than some conifers, and (3) may be about as sensitive as some native herbs and shrubs. However, it appears that visible injury symptoms occur at lower doses in crops and conifers than in lichens. Evaluation of the lichen/air pollution research (e.g. mapping, laboratory and field fumigations, and ecological baseline studies) and a computer search of environmental impact statements showed that if the efforts of lichenologists are to be of use to government decision makers, the researchers must (1) use representative concentrations of pollutants, (2) use fluctuating exposures, in addition to constant concentrations, (3) use mixtures as well as single pollutants, (4) determine the importance of peak concentrations to long-term averages on effects, (5) develop dose-response curves for single and mixed pollutants, (6) relate laboratory results to field observations, (7) document changes in lichen communities related to measured concentrations of ambient pollutants, and (8) determine the significance of lichens in the structure and function of ecosystems.
10.2307/3241926|Lichen biomass fumigated by gaseous emissions from a kraft-type pulp mill was reduced over a distance of 16 km. Biomass was inversely related to total sulfur content. The lichen Alectoria fremontii Tuck. was transported into the fumigated area and exhibited an increased rate of photosynthesis after 14-19 days of exposure which was ascribed to low level SO
20061142|The new cyanobacterial lichen species Phloeopeccania anemoides is described from Baja California Sur and Sinaloa, Mexico. The species colonizes open rock surfaces on volcanic boulders in rocky slopes. A key to the known North American species of Phloeopeccania is provided.
10.2307/3240651|Peltigera scabrosa var. occidentalis Dahl is raised to the rank of species. The relationship of this taxon, apparently restricted to Greenland and Iceland, to Peltigera scabrosa Th. Fr., P. polydactyla (Neck.) Hoffm., and P. canina (L.) Willd. is discussed.
10.2307/3241807|Mature water-conducting elements in the gametophytes of Haplomitrium gibbsiae and Hymenophyton flabellatum are axially elongated cells devoid of living contents. The presence of numerous perforations in their walls makes them distinct from the water-conducting elements of most other land plants.
10.2307/3244228|Micromitrium austinii W. S. Sullivant in C. F. Austin is reduced to synonymy with Micromitrium tenerum (P. Bruch & W. P. Schimper) Crosby. A diagnosis is given for M. tenerum, and a lectotype is designated for it.
10.2307/3242668|The spatial pattern of the gametophores, gamete dispersal, and spore dispersal distances were examined for a single colony of Sphagnum subtile, a dioicous species. Gamete dispersal distances are short, with a mean of 2.2 cm, and highly leptokurtic in distribution. The female to male ratio is 1:1.5. Average shoot density is 4.4 per cm
10.2307/3241836|The following new species are described: Buellia capitis-regum W. Web. sp. nov., from coastal California, U.S.A., Buellia galapagona W. Web. sp. nov., from the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador, Buellia paniformis W. Web. sp. nov., from Guadalupe Island, Mexico, and Buellia saurina W. Web. sp. nov. from Utah, U.S.A.
10.2307/3242368|The moss flora of Big Bend National Park, Texas, consists of 58 genera, 106 species, 6 varieties and 1 hybrid. Of these, 74% are new reports for the Park, 9 genera and 20 taxa are first reports for Texas. Globulinella globifera (Hampe) Steere and Entodon erythropus Mitt. are reported new to the moss flora of the United States. Keys and an annotated checklist are included.
10.2307/3243400|The classification of mosses into subclasses and orders is based to a large extent on the morphology of the peristome teeth, yet little information exists on development of peristomes. In this paper we describe the sequences of cell divisions leading to peristome formation in six species of mosses representing two families with haplolepideous peristome structure. The earliest developmental stages conform to the pattern documented in other mosses and highlight the uniformity of these early stages among mosses of diverse relationship. Peristome development in haplolepideous mosses diverges from the pattern found in diplolepideous species when each of eight cells in the Inner Peristomial Layer undergoes anticlinal divisions. Haplolepideous species share a pattern of peristome development that appears to be unique to this group of mosses. Similarities in the arrangement of cells comprising mature haplolepideous peristomes and early stages of Bryum-type diplolepideous peristomes may indicate a relationship between these peristome types, or may be due in part to evolutionary convergence. Developmental evidence suggests that haplolepideous peristome teeth are homologous to the cilia of Bryum-type peristomes rather than to the endostome segments, as is commonly thought.
20110793|The lichen flora of Vietnam was investigated. A bibliography is presented of all papers citing lichen species from what is now Vietnam, and a comprehensive checklist is given, with the reported and the current names. To give an impression of the state of the current knowledge of the lichen flora, the results of a recent field trip are presented as well. The total lichen flora known to date comprises 275 species, 122 of which are reported here from Vietnam for the first time.
10.2307/3242541|Twenty-seven species belonging to 15 genera and 10 families are added to the moss flora of Himachal Pradesh.
10.2307/3241554|Photographs of quartz rock surfaces in the Lake Mohonk area of the Shawangunk Mountains of southern New York State reveal a severe decline, during the last 100 years, in the incidence of the umbilicate lichens Lasallia papulosa, L. pensylvanica, and Umbilicaria mammulata.
10.2307/3244254|Although the number of family or generic cladistic studies in bryophytes is increasing, there have so far been few cladistic analyses of moss relationships at the ordinal level. Cladistic methods and theory provide powerful analytical tools in the study of character variation, and are used here to provide the basis for studies of morphological characters for the phylogeny of the transition to pleurocarpy, a problem at the ordinal level in mosses. Morphological characters from the gametophyte and sporophyte are assessed, and discussed in the context of cladistic analysis based on morphological data and molecular data from rbcL sequences. In order to understand the evolution of branching systems we have deconstructed the traditional concept of pleurocarpy into its constituent elements. These we have included in the analysis as independent characters. Among features potentially important to the understanding of the transition to pleurocarpy are: modular architecture, hierarchy of the archegonial module, length of fertile module, differentiation of perichaetial leaves, formation of sub-perichaetial branches, and intrusion of the foot into the supporting module. Position of the branch primordium is found to be less informative than previously thought. Further study of the pleurocarpous members of the Bryales, especially Pyrrhobryum and its relatives in the Rhizogoniaceae, will be crucial for extending our understanding of the transition to pleurocarpy.
20485781|In recent years, Alectoria in the Acharian sense has been shown to contain several discordant elements, now recognized as separate genera, including Bryoria, Nodobryoria, Pseudephebe and Sulcaria. Here we describe a new segregate genus Gowardia. At present, Gowardia contains two species: G. arctica sp. nov. and G. nigricans (Ach.) comb. nov. (syn. Alectoria nigricans). In addition to several morphological and chemical characters, our decision to recognize Gowardia as distinct from Alectoria is supported by phylogenetic analysis based on combined ITS and GAPDH data. Gowardia arctica is known from Arctic regions of Canada and Russia, while G. nigricans has a wider range. Alectoria vancouverensis is documented from Finland, which is the first report of the species outside the Pacific coast of North America.
10.2307/3242105|Based on current nomenclature, a total of 287 species of 62 genera, 8 varieties and 14 forms of lichens have been reported as occurring in Idaho.
10.2307/3244108|Sixty-five species of lichens and lichenicolous fungi are reported as new to British Columbia. Nineteen of these are documented from North America for the first time: Abrothallus cetrariae, Anzina carneonivea, Arthonia epimela, Brigantiaea purpurata, Buellia cristallifera, Caloplaca cerinelloides, C. oleicola, Carbonea aggregantula, Dermatocarpon linkolae, Fellhanera subtilis, Lecidella laureri, Leprolomma diffusum var. chrysodetoides, Plectocarpon nephromeum, Protothelenella leucothelia, Roselliniella nephromatis, Sclerophora amabilis, S. coniophaea, S. peronella and Verrucaria sphaerospora. An additional 18 species are new to Canada.
10.2307/3243636|Fifty-seven taxa in the lichen genus Cladonia are known from the United States west of the Rockies. Approximately 20% of the taxa are endemic to the area. All of the major worldwide infrageneric groups, viz. sections Cladonia, Cocciferae, Helopodium, Perviae, and Unciales, are represented. Some of the taxa previously considered to be widespread in the region are narrowly distributed. The Cascade Mountains are the major biogeographical boundary in the region, with several taxa found exclusively on one side or the other of the mountains. Two new species, C. andereggii Hammer sp. nov. and C. extracorticata Hammer sp. nov., are recognized.
10.2307/3244416| Nomenclatural upgrades are provided for Saitoa Zander, S. peruviana (Williams) Zander, and Barbula eustegia Card. & Thr., due to priority of another name for the first two and perceived need for a change in taxonomic status for the third. 
10.2307/3241215|Tholurna dissimilis has been found in the state of Oregon on Carpenter Mtn., 300 km south of the Mt. Rainier localities in Washington.
10.2307/3242777|Chrysothrix placodioides Thor, sp. nov. and C. granulosa Thor, sp. nov. are described and reported from central Brazil and along the coast of the Pacific Ocean from central Chile to northern Peru, respectively. Both species are found with apothecia and spores. The chemotype of C. candelaris with calycin and pinastric acid is reported for the first time from Australia and South America.
10.2307/3244256| A taxonomic study of the genus Biatora in northwestern North America yielded 15 taxa of Biatora. Descriptions, notes on ecology and distribution, as well as a key to the species are presented. Biatora alaskana Printzen & Tnsberg, sp. nov.; B. hypophaea Printzen & Tnsberg, sp. nov.; B. nobilis Printzen & Tnsberg, sp. nov.; and Lecidea meiocarpa var. tacomensis Printzen & Tnsberg, var. nov. are described as new to science. Biatora fallax Hepp, B. rufidula (Graewe) S. Ekman & Printzen, B. toensbergii Holien & Printzen, and Lecidea betulicola f. endamylea (Hedl.) Hinteregger are new to North America, and Catillaria erysiboides (Nyl.) Th. Fr. is reported for the first time in this century. The occurrence of B. helvola is regarded as doubtful. Species which can easily be misidentified for Biatora are included in the key and briefly treated in an appendix. Biatora hypophaea and Lecidea meiocarpa var. tacomensis are also reported from western Norway. As the genus is still undercollected the actual number of species in the area is probably higher. 
3244869|Dactylospora aeruginosa Holien & Ihlen, sp. nov. is described from Norway and U.S.A. and D. borealis Holien & Ihlen, sp. nov. is described from Norway, Sweden, and U.S.A. Both species are lichenicolous, but D. aeruginosa is also saprobic on wood and bark of Picea abies and Juniperus communis, whereas D. borealis is only rarely growing on bark of P. abies. Notes are given on their ecology and distribution. A key to the known lichenicolous species of Dactylospora occurring in Scandinavia is included. Lichenodiplis lecanorae is suggested to be the anamorph of D. borealis.
3244684| Upper montane oak forests in the Cordillera de Talamanca show a high diversity of bryophyte species and great diversification of microhabitats. A complete bryophyte inventory of six hectare of forest yielded 206 species: 100 mosses, 105 hepatics, and one hornwort. Based on similarities in species composition the forest microhabitats cluster into three main groups: 1) forest floor habitats (including tree base), 2) phyllosphere, and 3) other epiphytic habitats. The contribution of forest floor habitats to total bryophyte species richness is much higher than in forests of lower elevational belts. Distribution of species and life forms in different microhabitats reflect the vertical variation of humidity and light regimes. At the same time they show the impact of the pronounced dry season and the structural characters (tree height, stratification, number of host tree species) of these oak forests on epiphytic bryophytes compared to more humid forests and upper montane forests of lower stature. /// Los bosques montano-altos de roble en la Cordillera de Talamanca muestran una gran diversidad de especies de briofitas y una considerable diversificacin de microhbitats. El inventario total de las briofitas registra 206 especies: 100 musgos, 105 hepticas y 1 antocerota. Con base en similitudes en la composicin de especies, los microhbitats del bosque pueden ser clasificados en 3 grupos principales: 1) suelo del bosque (incluyendo la base de los rboles), 2) filosfera y 3) otros hbitats epfitos. La contribucin de los hbitats del suelo del bosque a la diversidad total de especies de briofitas es mucho ms importante que en bosques a menor altura. La distribucin de especies y formas de vida en diferentes microhbitats reflejan la variacin vertical de los regmenes hdrico y lumnico. Al mismo tiempo, muestran el impacto de la pronunciada poca seca y de los caracteres estructurales de estos bosques de roble (altura de los rboles, estratificacin, nmero de especies de forfitos) sobre las briofitas epfitas, en comparacin con bosques ms hmedos y bosques montano-altos de menor estatura. 
10.2307/3243103|Growth patterns leading to positive phototropism of Pellia epiphylla sporophytes were analyzed by time-lapse photography. Curvature toward 6 W/m
10.2307/3241520| The dibenzofuran schizopeltic acid, previously known only in the Roccellaceae, is reported from a North American species of Lecanactis. This compound was also found in some European specimens of L. abietina (Ehrh.) Krb. In addition to lecanoric acid and erythrin already known from Lecanactis, a microchemical survey of 11 taxa found atranorin, conpsoromic acid, psoromic acid, schizopeltic acid, two unknown substances associated with schizopeltic acid, and three unidentified triterpenes. The chemistry of the genus is sufficiently complex to be useful in systematics, and in the collective species L. dilleniana (Ach.) Krb. chemical variation appears to be correlated with spore morphology. Except for atranorin, all the known aromatic secondary products found here also occur in Roccella, and the new chemical evidence supports a previously suggested close relationship between the Lecanactidaceae and the Roccellaceae in the Hysteriales. 
3244724|Sphagnum alaskense Andrus & Janssens, sp. nov. is described as a new species in section Sphagnum. It is a weakly to moderately minerotrophic species occurring from Alaska south to the state of Washington. Sphagnum alaskense differs from S. centrale on the basis of weak or absent stem cortical cell fibrils, branch chlorophyll cells lacking thickened end walls in transverse section, and branch leaf hyaline cells often with ridges running parallel to the long axis of the leaf where the hyaline cells overlap the overlying chlorophyll cells.
10.2307/3242792| The thallus temperatures of Hypogymnia physodes, Letharia vulpina and Usnea fulvoreagens during full solar radiation in contrasting canopy positions are compared with corresponding air temperature data. The thallus temperature of Hypogymnia growing in the boundary layer of the bark surface is always well above air temperature despite strong convectional cooling by wind in the canopy. Hypogymnia at ground level achieves even higher thallus temperatures in the absence of any marked degree of convective cooling. Usnea with its very fine branches and resultant high surface area to weight ratio radiates energy very efficiently and remains very close to air temperature. Letharia with its bulkier thallus and caespitose habit occupies an intermediate position with thallus temperatures rising to ca. 8C under full radiation conditions. The data are discussed in relation to the thermal limits and net photosynthetic temperature optima found in lichens and the importance of defining the thermal operating environment of lichens rather than the overall latitudinal climate is emphasized. 
10.2307/3242104| Peculiar plants of Riella helicophylla (Bory et Montagne) Montagne bearing involucres with distinct longitudinal ridges were found to be interfertile with plants bearing tuberculate-surfaced involucres and with plants bearing smooth-surfaced involucres of the same species. This questions the significance of the existence or non-existence of wings on Riella involucres for the division of the genus into two sub genera. Spores of the holotype of the central-Asian R. paulsenii Porsild, supposedly distinct from the north-African R. cossoniana by its blunt (rather than truncate), spore-spines proved to bear truncate spines. Riella paulsenii is therefore reduced to a synonym of R. cossoniana Trabut. Plants grown from spores of the holotype of R. cossoniana var. echinata Mller from Morocco differed from plants of R. cossoniana and showed great similarity to several clones of R. helicophylla when grown side by side. This Moroccan population should be assigned to R. helicophylla rather than to R. cossoniana, and var. echinata of the latter should be regarded a synonym of R. helicophylla. 
10.2307/3243667|The distributions of Dactylina arctica (Richards.) Nyl. and D. beringica Bird & Thoms. were examined on pingos (ice-cored mounds) on the Alaskan Arctic Coastal Plain to determine the degree of habitat overlap between the two species. Dactylina arctica was present on all of 41 sampled pingos and occurred in a variety of microsites, although it was most common in shallow snowbanks and on north-facing slopes. Dactylina beringica occurred on 26 of 41 pingos and was limited to snowbank areas. Dactylina arctica and D. beringica have a significant negative association and occurred in the same plot only eight times. The local and microhabitat distributions of these species reflect their respective global distributions. Dactylina arctica is a ubiquitous, circumpolar species that is present in the High and Low Arctic, whereas D. beringica is an amphi-Beringian species occurring primarily in the Low Arctic. On pingos, D. arctica is more frequent and widespread than D. beringica and is also found in more extreme sites, with environments similar to those found in the High Arctic. The differential habitat preferences of these species demonstrated by these data is sufficiently great to warrant their recognition as separate species and not merely chemical morphs.
10.2307/3244016| Porpidia is a saxicolous segregate of the large classical crustose genus Lecidea, distinguished from other segregate genera and families mainly by a tall hymenium, a particular excipulum structure, and large, nonseptate, halonate spores. In this, the first revisionary study of North American herbarium materials, both chemical and morphological data were found to be useful taxonomically. The thallus characters-thickness, color, texture, and presence of soredia-could be used in some cases; however, useful apothecial characters were more numerous: pruina on the disks, size, shape and pigmentation of excipular cells, hymenium height, relative hymenium and subhymenium heights, and spore size. Presence of certain -orcinol depsidones and long-sidechain orcinol depsides were also meaningful. Among the 21 species accepted, seven were new: P. calcarea, P. carlottiana, P. grisea, P. herteliana, P. lowiana, P. tahawasiana, and P. thomsonii. A lectotype was chosen for P. cinereoatra, and two new combinations were made: P. diversa and P. flavicunda. Four phenetic groups could be discerned among the North American species. They were given informal names: the albocaerulescens complex, with narrow excipular cells and heavily pruinose apothecial disks; the macrocarpa complex, with thin thallus, nonpruinose or very rarely pruinose disks, and blue subhypothecial pigment; the speirea complex, with carbonaceous exciple, small spores, generally a low hymenium, and a short hymenium-to-subhymenium ratio; and the superba complex, with tall hymenium and usually an HCl+ substrate. The genus occurs from arctic to temperate regions. Although most species follow well known distribution patterns, a few morphological types were found disjunctively in climatically different regions. 
10.2307/3243137|The Swan Valley hosts a rich lichen flora reflecting both continental and Pacific coastal climatic influences. A total of 206 taxa were collected, 74 of which are apparently new records for Montana. Additional localities are given for Collema curtisporum Degel., previously known in North America from a single locality in the state of Washington. Bacidia idahoensis Magn. is reported for the first time since its description in 1952. Eastward range extensions of species with Pacific coastal affinities include Cladonia verruculosa, Cetraria orbata, Hypogymnia rugosa, and H. metaphysodes.
10.2307/3242770|Fundy National Park, located between the temperate and boreal zones of oceanic eastern Canada, has a lichen flora of more than 470 species. Saxicolous and corticolous lichens are most numerous (200 in each class). There are fewer than 100 each of terricolous and lignicolous lichens. Most of the lichens have centers of distribution in the boreal (33%) or temperate zones (56%). A few arctic (6%) and tropical or subtropical (5%) outliers reach the park via oceanic or mountainous regions, or both, to the north or south. The flora contains 314 lichens new for New Brunswick; 18 for eastern Canada; 14 for Canada, and 5 for North America. Those new for North America are: Arthonia leucopellaea, Lecanora actophila, Lecidea atrofulva, Micaria hedlundii, and M. lutulata.
10.2307/3241878|Aulacomnium palustre (Hedw.) Schwaegr. is reported for the first time from Kansas; additional distributional notes are included for ten other taxa.
10.2307/3242858|The family Rigodiaceae is described as new to accommodate the genus Rigodium, formerly in the Lembophyllaceae. Trichostomum stenocarpum (Ther.) n. comb. is transferred from Weisiopsis. Rhizogonium sublimbatum is described as a new species from Costa Rica.
10.2307/3242449|Four mosses are reported from Newfoundland for the first time: Arctoa fulvella (Dicks.) B.S.G. (genus new for Newfoundland), Desmatodon latifolius var. muticus Brid., D. laureri (Schultz) B.S.G., and Grimmia hartmanii var. anomala (Hampe ex Schimp.) Moenck. Oligotrichum hercynicum (Hedw.) DC. is reported for the second time in eastern North America. Distributional notes are provided for nine other species rare in Newfoundland or North America, including Newfoundland maps for Myurella julacea and Rhytidium rugosum.
10.2307/3243695|The total lipid content of plants of Ctenidium molluscum, Pogonatum urnigerum, Dichodontium pellucidum, and Tortella tortuosa steadily decreased with increasing concentration of Ca(NO
10.2307/3243828|Gymnostomiella has two species in the Neotropics and eastern Asia: G. longinervis (eastern Asia) and G. vernicosa (Neotropics and eastern Asia). Gymnostomiella orcuttii is a synonym of G. vernicosa.
20110774|A new Orthotrichum species, O. anodon F. Lara, Garilleti & Mazimpaka, is described. The new taxon is included in subgenus Pulchella (Schimp.) Vitt, and is characterised by its immersed, cylindrical capsules, with eight short exothecial bands that constrict the capsule mouth when dry; the lack of exostome teeth; the endostome having 16 hyaline and papillose segments; and the leaves lingulate to ovate lanceolate, with obtuse apices. Its distinction from and relationships with similar species within the genus, are discussed.
25614904|The lignicolous Buellia carballaliana Paz-Bermdez & Giralt is described as new from Portugal. It is characterized by a thickly crustose to subsquamulose, milk-coffee colored thallus which contains 5-O-methylhiascic acid, and small, unornamented ascospores, belonging to the Buellia-type when mature but showing septal wall thickenings during a brief period of the spore ontogeny (= Physconia-type), and always with a well-developed torus.
10.2307/3241478|Two new lichen depsides, 2-O-methylperlatolic acid and 2'-O-methylperlatolic acid, were found in Pertusaria tuberculifera Nyl. and P. globularis (Ach.) Tuck. respectively by hydrolysis and thin-layer chromatography of microextracts. The related compounds perlatolic acid, stenosporic acid, and confluentic acid also occur in the genus. These substances and the new depsides are biogenetically related to picrolichenic acid, an unusual depsone apparently restricted to Pertusaria. 2'-O-Methylperlatolic acid appears to be the same as a previously unidentified substance that occurs with confluentic acid in Lecidea auriculata Th. Fr. and L. confluens (G. Web.) Ach.
10.2307/3244302|The thallus surface of Dermatocarpon was studied by transmission and scanning electron microscopy. Comparisons were made with the surface covering in representative species of Catapyrenium and Peltula. Two types of surface coverings were observed in Dermatocarpon, both similar to the epinecral layer types described in Peltula. One type consists of compressed hyphae and the other of non-compressed, air filled, more or less isodiametric cells or cell remnants. The latter type may cause the surface to appear pruinose and has often been referred to as a pruina in Dermatocarpon. Investigations of the pruina of Catapyrenium species also revealed an epinecral layer.
10.2307/3243439|Plagiothecium novae-seelandiae Broth., described from New Zealand, has been considered a synonym of the Northern Hemisphere species, P. denticulatum (Hedw.) B.S.G. An examination of the type and other specimens from New Zealand and Australia (including Tasmania), however, reveals notable differences that warrant recognition of the taxon as a distinct species endemic to the region. A description and illustrations are provided. Examination of the type of Plagiothecium novae-valesiae Broth. necessitates its transfer to Ectropothecium novae-valesiae (Broth.) Irel. comb. nov. Another species, Plagiothecium lucidum (Hook. f. & Wils.) Paris, is reported for the first time for Australia and New Zealand.
3244283|Cololejeunea pocsii Tixier, known only from Vietnam, is proposed as a synonym of Cololejeunea filicis (Herzog) Piippo. Detailed description, illustration, and a distribution map of C. filicis are provided.
10.2307/3241618|Gemmae, which are infrequently reported for species of Frullania, have been found in collections of F. eboracensis. Their development is compared to that of gemmae in other Frullania species.
10.2307/3240713| Ranges and synonmy are given for three species of Brachythecium. B. asperrimum (Mitt.) Sull. of western North America is synonymized with B. frigidum (C. Mll.) Besch. from central Mexico. A new name is provided for B. calliergonoides Broth. of Japan. 
10.2307/3242004|Some previously unknown structures of and variation within the genus Steereella are described; these include seta in transverse section, capsule wall, elaterophore, form of elater cluster at the valve apices and the laminal structure of the thallus.
10.2307/3243456| One hundred and thirty-three names of Fissidens Hedw. (including Conomitrium Mont., Moenkemeyera C. Mll., and Simplicidens Herz.) are placed in the synonymy of 35 other names of Fissidens. Seventy-nine names are lectotypified. Neotypes are designated for F. amoenus C. Mll, F. distichellus Besch., F. oerstedianus C. Mll., F. pellucidus Hornsch., and F. serratus C. Mll. Fissidens pellucidus var. asterodontius (C. Mll.) and F. pellucidus var. papilliferus (Broth.), are new combinations. Fissidens townsendianus nom. & stat. nov. is proposed for F. weirii Mitt. var. insertus Grout. 
25614871|Flakea papillata is a predominantly tropical, widespread lichen characterized by flake-like thalli of narrowly arranged, irregularly wrinkled, small bluish-green lobes, whose taxonomic position was unclear. The lichen shows superficial similarity with either algal colonies, bryophytes or fern prothallia, but the production of zeorin and other triterpenoids supports its inclusion in the ascomycetes. Analysis of the nuclear large and small subunits rRNA sequence data of samples from different origins supports the position of F. papillata within the Verrucariaceae: it forms its own supported clade not related to the core of Agonimia, in which it has been previously placed.
10.2307/3241552|A survey of the literature indicates that 542 species and varieties of mosses have been reported from Costa Rica. The following nomenclatural changes are made: Campylopus paramoensis nom. nov. (C. atratus Bartr., hom. illeg.); Thamnobryum tumidicaule (Wagner) comb. nov.; Sematophyllum dimorphum (Ren. & Card.) comb. nov.; S. harpidioides (Ren. & Card.) comb. nov.; S. simulans (Ren. & Card.) comb, nov.; S. subcespitosum (Ren. & Card.) comb. nov.; S. tonduzii (Ren. & Card.) comb. nov.
23321025|A recent checklist of mosses in Paraguay included three species of Holomitrium Brid.: H. arboreum Mitt., the newly reported H. olfersianum Hornsch. and the endemic H. paraguense Besch. A review of Holomitrium from the Neotropics revealed that H. paraguense was a new synonym of H. olfersianum. Lectotypes are newly proposed herein for H. olfersianum and H. paraguense based on material from the Hampe and Bescherelle herbaria in the BM. Two species of Holomitrium (H. arboreum and H. olfersianum) are now known to occur in Paraguay in the states of Alto Paran, Canendiy and Paraguar.
10.2307/3242337|Ultrastructure, histochemistry and sequence of germination phases in mosses have been studied in three isosporous species, viz. Polytrichum commune Hedw., Ceratodon purpureus (Hedw.) Brid. and Funaria hygrometrica Hedw. and in one anisosporous species, Macromitrium sulcatum (Hook.) Brid. In each the aperture region is characterized by: 1. drastic thickening of the intine, 2. decrease in thickness of the exine, 3. lamellate structure present subjacent to the thin part of the exine and 4. accumulation of electron-dense material into a thin separating layer between the intine and the exine. Further, in P. commune, a knob-like structure associated with the thickened part of the intine is present. When mature air-dried spores were soaked in tap water in daylight, water was absorbed through the aperture region. The subsequent sequence of stages was observed to be: swelling, spore wall rupturing, protrusion and recovery followed by spore distension. Spore swelling consists of two basically different kinds of swelling: symmetrical and asymmetrical. The symmetrical swelling is a process of remoistening rather than a stage in the germination. The asymmetrical swelling is caused by swelling of the asymmetrical intine which protrudes beyond the exine and perine in the aperture region. The recovery phase, not previously reported for mosses, is characterized by almost no structural changes. During this the protruded protoplast of the spore is protected from the surrounding environment only by the intine wall complex of the aperture region. The "opaque zone," previously reported to be present between the intine and exine, originates from the lamellate structure present in the aperture region. As in pollen grains and fern and liverwort spores, we assume that exine formation in mosses occurs by apposition of lamellae of the lamellate structure. In Polytrichum commune the knob-like structure associated with the intine shows a complex ultrastructure: electron-dense material forms bridges or channels connecting the outermost part of the knob with a layer of electron-dense material at the peripheral part of the knob adjacent to the plasmalemma. These channels probably conduct water during early stages of the germination, thus ensuring equal and rapid swelling of the intine knob complex. Standard histochemical tests for polysaccharides, proteins and lipids were made on Polytrichum commune and Funaria hygrometrica, yielding further evidence to the interpretation based on ultrastructure and sequence of germination phases.
10.2307/3242106|Fifty-one species of lichenized fungi were found on 10 species of deciduous trees in the Central Front Range of Colorado. Three species, Caloplaca sorocarpa (Vain.) Zahlbr., Lecania cyrtellina (Nyl.) Sandst. and Physcia hirsuta Mereschk. are new to North America. In addition, nine species are new reports for Colorado. New combinations have been made for Lecidella glomerulosa (DC. in Lam. & DC.) Carmer, Strangospora microhaema (Norm. in Th. Fr.) R. Anderson and Strangospora ochrophora (Nyl.) R. Anderson.
10.2307/3242389| A new subgenus (Plagiocarpa subg. Pyrenulopsis R. C. Harris), nine new species and 16 new combinations are established, based on material collected in Louisiana in recent years. Of 31 new reports for Louisiana, eight are new also for the United States. In addition, some new information is provided about 18 other rarely collected species that were found in Louisiana. Clathroporina amygdalina (Mll.Arg.) Fink should be removed from the North American flora and Porina amygdalina Mll.Arg. should be restored. 
10.2307/3242851|Exsiccatae of the Bryophytes of Taiwan, issued in 1981, were distributed in two-hundred and fifty numbers in five series.
10.2307/3243268| Andreaea schofieldiana, known from British Columbia (type) and California, differs from its closest relative, the European endemic species A. frigida Hb., by its smaller size, smaller spores (20-30[36] m), membranous leaf texture, strongly biconvex costa, the occasional presence of low papillae on its perichaetial bracts, and its occurrence in dry, exposed habitats. Andreaea megistospora is most closely related to A. rothii Web. & Mohr, from which it differs primarily by its very large spores, about 50-100 m, the largest in the genus. The subspecies megistospora, with the lamina distinct throughout the leaf and papillose inner perichaetial bracts, is disjunct between northwestern parts of North America and Europe. In Alaska, British Columbia, and Washington, it is the most common member of section Nerviae Card. ex Broth.; in the British Isles (type: Scotland) and Norway, it is quite rare. The subspecies epapillosa, with the lamina indistinct in the subula and epapillose perichaetial bracts, is occasional in southeastern Alaska and coastal British Columbia (type) and is often found growing with ssp. megistospora. Spore size is considered the major criterion for defining taxa in section Nerviae. Stress on spore size, rather than on traditional leaf characters that vary within species, led to a realignment of taxa in section Nerviae, which have long been confused. A key to costate Andreaeae of North America and Europe is provided. 
10.2307/3243068| Some records of Venezuelan bryophytes are cited for the regions of Tachira, Mrida, the Coast Range, and the Guayana Highlands, with notes on a few patterns of distribution. Possible sources are noted for the bryoflora of the higher Andes. The most significant endemic elements of the Guayana flora are concentrated in the eastern part and show paleotropical relationships. Venezuelan records are cited for almost all of the bryophyte species that have previously been considered endemic to the geologically young Lesser Antilles. 
10.2307/3244547|Herbarium specimens of Cyrtomnium hymenophylloides document that this calcicole moss is widespread at lowland stations across the North American Arctic, largely north of treeline. It is found southward in the Rocky Mountains of western Canada, often in high elevation vegetation, and in New York-New England-eastern Canada in mountainous areas, but at lower altitudes beneath deciduous or conifer-deciduous forest. Its southeasternmost disjunct stations, which occur north of the glacial boundary, are interpreted as relicts on the basis of a late-Pleistocene fossil recovered from sediment of glacial Lake Hitchcock, southeastern Vermont. Extant populations occur near where the fossil was found. Spore production is unknown in North America in this dioicous moss, but its fragile stems may allow local dispersal at edaphically favorable sites and over longer distances in treeless vegetation. The southeasternmost disjunct populations may be clones, the persistence of which is favored by vegetative spread through the proliferation of new leafy branches from portions of the plants growing at or below the surface of the soil.
10.2307/3243827|Fifty-eight species of mosses (37 genera, 18 families) and 4 species of liverworts (3 genera, 3 families) are reported from Konza Prairie Research Natural Area, a 3, 487-hectare tallgrass prairie preserve in northeastern Kansas. Factors affecting the growth and persistence of bryophytes on the prairie are discussed. The occurrence of bryophytes in presettlement tallgrass prairies was probably influenced by natural disturbance due to grazing and recurring fire.
10.2307/3243047|Epiphytic bryophytes were sampled quantitatively at three heights and four exposures on 124 trees representing four host taxa (Acer saccharum, Betula lutea, Populus spp., and Quercus rubra) within the Dow Wilderness Area, Keweenaw County, Michigan. Several bryophytes were found to be significantly associated or dissociated with one or more host taxa. A marked vertical zonation of epiphytic bryophytes was found, with tree bases exhibiting highest mean bryophyte cover and largest mean number of species. Many bryophytes were significantly correlated with one of three vertical levels, which included basal, breastheight (1.2 m), and midway (0.6 m) locations, and several bryophyte associations were supported by cluster analysis. Significant differences in bryophyte cover due to direction of exposure were found on all host taxa, with north exposures exhibiting the most bryophyte cover at the base, south in the middle, and east at breast height. Within the range of diameters sampled, a slight but significant increase in bryophyte cover as diameter increased was found on all host types but Betula lutea. A significant increase in number of species as diameter increased was observed only on Populus.
10.2307/3241951|Syrrhopodon annotinus Reese & Griffin, (Musci; Calymperaceae), is described and illustrated from Amazonas, Brazil. It superficially resembles Calymperes richardii and some leaves bear teniola-like features, a characteristic of Calymperes. The leaves are bordered with elongated, hyaline cells, a feature common in Syrrhopodon but not in Calymperes.
10.2307/3241501|Gas-liquid chromatography indicates the presence of a number of volatile components in some species of Leptogium, and, while there are variations from one species to the next, the overall chromatographic picture shows a considerable degree of similarity in their chemical composition. Crystallization of lichen substances is reported for the first time in the genus Leptogium.
10.2307/3241698|Phenological and environmental data collected over three years from three stands of Orthotrichum anomalum on a nearly vertical basalt cliff in a canyon in northern Arizona show that gametangial initiation and sporophyte development occur at any season except in the prolonged late-spring to early-summer drought. A dry period is necessary for shedding of opercula. The gametophyte grows only under prolonged cool, wet conditions; artificial watering during the normally hot and dry months is detrimental. Photoperiod and temperature do not appear to affect phenology.
3244852| As part of an ongoing lichen biodiversity inventory in Costa Rica, we present a survey on the taxonomy of the basidiolichen genus Dictyonema. Two species are described as new: D. melvinii Chaves, Lcking, & Umaa (also known from Colombia and Bolivia), and D. minor Lcking, Navarro, & Sipman (also known from Colombia and Venezuela). A total of 11 taxa are reported from the country, comprising six species and an additional five forms. Our numerous collections suggest that foliose and crustose growth forms, although having similar thallus anatomy, do represent distinct taxa. However, since molecular data to test this hypothesis are missing for this genus, for the time being we follow E. Parmasto in distinguishing these morphotypes at the level of forma. A key is presented to all species and forms. 
23321057|The taxonomic diversity of the genus Ulota in Asia is revised. Eighteen species (including two new species and two new records) are recognized in the region: U. crispa, U. curvifolia, U. delicata, U. drummondii, U. eurystoma, U. gigantospora, U. gymnostoma, U. japonica, U. latisegmenta, U. morrisonensis, U. perbreviseta, U. phyllantha, U. rehmannii, U. reptans, U. robusta, U. splendida, U. yakushimensis and U. yunnanensis. Ulota delicata and U. latisegmenta are new to science, U. rehmannii and U. yakushimensis are reported here for first time from China, and U. eurystoma and U. reptans are deleted from the Chinese flora. Ulota delicata, U. eurystoma, U. gigantospora, U. gymnostoma, U. latisegmenta, U. morrisonensis, U. reptans and U. yunnanensis are endemic to the area, while the remaining taxa are more widespread. Ulota hattorii is considered a synonym of U. splendida, and the occurrence of U. hutchinsiae and U. schmidii are still questionable because the type specimens are not located or too fragmental and the specimens upon which the former is reported from Asia are not available. Most species are common as epiphytes on trees, some occur also or exclusively on rocks. Observations from SEM-studies of peristomes and spores of U. crispa, U. curvifolia, U. delicata, U. drummondii, U. eurystoma, U. latisegmenta, U. morrisonensis, U. robusta, U. splendida and U. yakushimensis are presented.
10.2307/3242963|Orthotrichum pallens Brid. is reported new to temperate and arctic Alaska, to Cornwallis Island, arctic Canada, and to West Greenland. It is postulated to have survived the last glaciation in three refugia in arctic Alaska, in northern Ellesmere Island, and central East Greenland, as well as south of the major area of glaciation.
10.2307/3240658| Thirty-five species of hepatics are reported from Glacier National Park, Montana. Six species are new to the state: Calypogeia suecica (Arn. & Perss.) K. Mll., Lophozia ascendens (Warnst.) Schust., Jungermannia pumila With., Scapania curta (Mart.) Dum., Porella platyphylla (L.) Lindb., and Reboulia hemisphaerica (L.) Raddi. 
41486751|Sphagnum perichaetiale Hampe and S. recurvum P. Beauv. are reported as new to Argentina based on collections from the Corrientes province. The presence of S. recurvum in this province is the southernmost locality in America. Sphagnum magellanicum Brid. and S. cuspidatum Ehrh. ex Hoffm. should be excluded from the bryological flora of the province of Corrientes. Descriptions, illustrations, SEM photographs, habitat, ecology and distribution are given.
20110797|Encalypta texana is a new, gymnostomous species from west Texas, U.S.A. It differs from other small, gymnostomous, southwestern United States species of Encalypta in having oblong to elliptical, broadly acute, ventrally papillose leaves with subpercurrent costae and basally recurved margins, irregularly fringed calyptrae, non-furrowed capsules and finely pitted spores.
3244594|The lecideoid lichen Helocarpon lesdainii (Zahlbr.) Breuss, comb. nova is reported new to the United States from coastal forests of Oregon. Originally described as Lecidea lesdainii Zahlbr. from the Canary Islands, the species seems to be locally abundant in the Pacific Northwest.
10.2307/3243107|The most distinctive features in sporophytes of Dozya japonica Lac. are the very thick capsule walls and the presence of parastomes around exostomes. Though D. japonica has no endostomes and its taxonomical position is not clear, the presence of parastomes and the very thick capsule walls indicate no close relationship to Leucodon. Dozya japonica should be included in a new subfamily, Dozyoideae (Leucodontaceae).
10.2307/3241140|Scrobiculin, a recently described meta-depside, is a constant component of Lobaria amplissima and L. scrobiculata, and it is identifiable in fragments of herbarium specimens by microcrystal tests and thin-layer chromatography. In L. scrobiculata usnic acid is probably an accessory substance, and two unidentified substances are present in addition to stictic acid and norstictic acid. 4-O-Methylphysodic acid can be identified in Parmelia livida by thin-layer chromatography, but other constituents present interfere with microcrystal tests for this depsidone. Atranorin, lividic acid, and two unidentified substances were also detected as constant components of this species, and two additional, unknown compounds were found in variable concentration.
10.2307/3241023|Nine species of mosses are reported as new to the flora of Haiti.
10.2307/3243392|On the basis of its intricately pinnately branched rhizoids, dark-red, opaque stems, strong single costa, and long axillary hairs Adelothecium is aligned with the unicostate genera of the Hookeriales. Within the group the genus appears isolated because of the presence of pseudoparaphyllia, the more or less unfurrowed exostome teeth, the production of gemmae on reduced axillary branches, and the insertion of the rhizoids well below the leaves or around the periphery of buds. An evaluation of gametophytic and sporophytic features within the Hookeriales indicates that two groups, distinct at family level, are present: The Daltoniaceae (consisting of the genera Achrophyllum, Adelothecium, Bryobrothera, Calyptrochaeta, Crosbya, Cyathophorum, Cyathophorella, Daltonia, Distichophyllidium, Distichophyllum, Leskeodon, and Leskeodontopsis), and the Hookeriaceae (consisting of Actinodontium, Amblyotropis, Brymela, Callicostellopsis, Crossomitrium, Cyclodictyon, Diploneuron, Helicoblepharum, Hemiragis, Hookeria, Hookeriopsis, Hypnella, Lepidopilidium, Lepidopilum, Leucomium, Philophyllum, Pilotrichidium, Rhynchostegiopsis, Sauloma, Schimperobryum, Schizomitrium, Stenodesmus, Stenodictyon, Tetrastichium and Thamniopsis). The Cyathophoraceae, Distichophyllaceae and Adelotheciaceae are considered synonymous with the Daltoniaceae, while the Leucomiaceae is placed in the synonymy of the Hookeriaceae. The presence of a central duct in the stem of Dendrocyathophorum indicates that it should be placed in the Hypopterygiaceae.
20110779|Didymodon eckeliae R. H. Zander, a presumed endemic species from California, is reported outside America for the first time, from Spain. A map of the currently known distribution, and a description and drawings of the Spanish specimen are provided.
10.2307/3241783|Lecidea populina, previously known from only one collection near Fort Collins in the late 1800's, has been rediscovered in northcentral Colorado. Since the species has bitunicate asci and ascolocular ascocarps, it must be removed from Lecidea and transferred to Micarea.
20110883|A new Bartramia species, B. bellolioella, is described from Arauco and uble provinces in the Bo-Bo Region of south-central Chile. The species belongs to section Vaginella Mll. Hal. It is closely related to the widespread B. ithyphylla Brid. and more distantly related to B. deciduaefolia Broth. & Yasuda from East Asia. Distinctive features of the species include its small size and spreading stem leaves that have enlarged, sheathing bases. Although sterile, B. bellolioella reproduces asexually by means of deciduous, linear-lanceolate leaves that lack sheathing bases. The deciduous leaves are produced at the stem apices or on whole plants.
10.2307/3241695|The known bryoflora of Glacier National Park has 390 taxa of which 157 are reported for the first time. Twenty-four species are new to Montana.
10.2307/3241676| Eighteen taxa are reported from Tierra del Fuego, Cetraria islandica f. maculata (Vain.) Sav. for the first time. The chemical constituents of 15 taxa were identified. The infraspecific variation of Alectoria ochroleuca is discussed and A. ochroleuca var. citrina (Rs.) Hawksw. stat. nov. is proposed. 
10.2307/3240584|Anomodon thraustus, an Asiatic species, and Drummondia prorepens are reported as additions to the bryoflora of Mexico. Range extensions in Mexico are reported for Forsstroemia ohioensis and Pilotrichum amazonum.
10.2307/3241466|The moss flora of Louisiana consists of 240 species and varieties, and one hybrid, in 39 families and 90 genera, and is characterized as a diminished eastern North American flora overlain by a distinct Tropical American element and including an equally distinct coastal plain element. Fissidens neonii is endemic to Louisiana and several taxa are anomalously present in this flora.
43188693|Research concerning ecological relationships between corticolous lichens and substrate factors in Cuba is limited. This study aims to determine the variation of composition, richness, frequency and cover area of corticolous lichens of the montane rainforest of Gran Piedra in Cuba related to physical and chemical substrate factors, including diameter of the trunk, roughness, per cent moisture, pH, and concentration of bark phenols. In addition, lichen-phorophyte specificity of the tree species Gomidesia lindeniana, Coccoloba wrightii, Clusia tetrastigma, Dendropanax arboreus and Brunellia comocladifolia was determined. On 51 sampled phorophyte trees, 53 lichen species were found, 19 of which are new records to Cuba. Canonical Correspondence Analysis showed a segregation pattern in the species composition due to diameter of the trunk, pH and phenol concentration of the bark. Lichen-phorophyte specificity was almost absent, with only two lichen. species, Ocellularia terebrata and Chapsa neei, showing a significant association with Brunellia comocladifolia.
10.2307/3241533| Brachymenium macrocarpum Card., Bruchia donnellii Aust., Bryum micro-erythrocarpum C. Mll. & Kindb. ex Mac. & Kindb., Campylium chrysophyllum var. brevifolium (Ren. & Card.) Grout, Dicranella heteromalla var. orthocarpa (Hedw.) Jaeg. & Sauerb., Dicranum flagellare var. minutissimum Grout, Ephemerum crassinervium var. texanum (Grout) Bryan & Anderson, and Sphagnum imbricatum var. affine (Ren. & Card.) Warnst. are new to Louisiana, and Barbella pendula (Sull.) Fleisch. is new to Mississippi. Seven other taxa of mosses that occur in Louisana are discussed. 
10.2307/3241327|The seventeen most common terricolous bryophytes in a calcareous black spruce bog forest occur in three distinct groups occupying different microtopographic sites. The chief factors governing the distribution of these groups are moisture availability, shade, and competition.
10.2307/3241842|Twenty taxa of mosses of the family Pottiaceae, including 15 new to the state, are reported from Nebraska.
10.2307/3240606|The polyalcohols arabitol and mannitol, previously reported in Cladonia rangiferina from identification by paper chromatography only, have been isolated by column chromatography.
10.2307/3241992| Freshly collected Amblystegium riparium (Hedw.) B.S.G. plants were grown submersed at various temperatures ranging from 6 to 33C. Peak growth rates occurred at 23C and death at 33C. Response curves for main axis elongation, lateral branch formation, branch elongation and reproductive branch formation differed in shape, and elongation rates changed over time. Lateral branch growth of branches initiated later was lower than growth of branches initiated earlier in the experiment. High temperature stress resulted in a proliferation of branches. Branch and main axis apices appeared to be the most heat resistant parts of the plants. 
10.2307/3241300|On the Olympic Peninsula, Washington, diversity of epiphytic vegetation on Pseudotsuga menziesii varies with certain habitat variables including exposure, height, and mesic or xeric nature of the habitat. On old Pseudotsugas in climax, or near climax, vegetation the number of epiphytic species encountered in 25 2dm
10.2307/3242641|The surface features of the spores from Sphagnum nemoreum Scop., S. rubellum Wils., S. subtile (Russow) Warnst., and S. bartlettianum Warnst. appear to be distinctive enough to be used to distinguish these species from one another. All the species have trilete spores with well-developed ridges on each side of the laesurae. The thickness of the perine, distal surface sculpturing, and spore size may be useful taxonomic characters.
3244849| North American collections previously referred to the genus Gongylia Krb. are reassessed. The collection previously referred to G. muscorum Zschacke is shown to be an undescribed species of Protothelenella Rsnen, for which the name P. pluriseptata Fryday is proposed, and the collection previously referred to G. nadvornikii Servit is shown to be referable to Segestria mammillosa Th. Fr., which is reported for the first time from Alaska and the North American Arctic. As a result, Gongylia muscorum and Sagediopsis barbara (Th. Fr.) R. Sant. & Triebel, which is the correct name for G. nadvornikii, should be removed from the North American flora. 
10.2307/3241590|Twenty species of the crustose lichen genus Ochrolechia are represented in the flora of North America north of Mexico. The species are described and illustrated and their ranges given by the citation of specimens and by maps. Two species, O. farinacea from Washington and Oregon and O. sorediosa from Alberta, are described as new and one new combination, O. pterulina (Nyl.) Howard (= Lecanora tartarea var. pterulina), is made.
10.2307/3243002|The peristome of Anacamptodon splachnoides (Froel. ex Brid.) Brid. was studied with the aid of the light microscope and the scanning electron microscope. Contrary to recent accounts, the peristome of this moss conforms structurally to that expected of a reduced diplolepideous peristome and is, therefore, not exceptional. It possesses sixteen exostome teeth, each consisting of two layers of wall thickenings, an outer, strongly papillose, thickened lamella, composed of a double row of vertical plates and an inner lamella, which is thin, membranous and smooth, consisting of a single series of vertical plates. There are sixteen endostome segments located inside and alternating with the teeth. The segments are much reduced; each is essentially two cells wide and generally less than eight cells high. A fragmentary basal membrane is usually evident. The basic developmental pattern for diplolepideous peristomes is discussed.
10.2307/3241093|Didymodon reedii, a propaguliferous species, is described as new. Ditrichum tortuloides, Grimmia trichophylla, and Bryum micro-erythrocarpum are reported from Maryland.
10.2307/3240898|Physcomitrium collenchymatum Gier, is redescribed and illustrated following the discovery of collections from Nova Scotia, Kansas, Tennessee, Florida, and Louisiana in addition to those previously reported from Florida and the type locality in Missouri. The collenchymatous nature of the exothecial cells of the capsule has been overemphasized. The importance as diagnostic characters of the size of the plants and the shape of the dry and empty capsules as well as the wet undehisced capsules is stressed. The relationship of the species to P. sphaericum, P. subsphaericum, and P. cupuliferum is postulated, and its generic affinities are discussed.
10.2307/3241252|Two species of Parmelia from Arizona, P. dissensa (subg. Xanthoparmelia) and P. huachucensis (subg. Xanthoparmelia) are described as new. Parmelia dissensa is the second New World species which contains hypoprotocetraric acid; P. huachucensis, the third species which contains psoromic acid.
10.2307/3242198| Archidum acauloides is described as a new species from Mexico. A. acauloides belongs in the section Phascoidea and is morphologically most similiar to A. julicaule C.Mll., A. clavatum I.G.Stone and A. julaceum C.Mll. A. acauloides differs from these three species by the non-papillose-dentate leaf margins, from the synoicous A. julaceum C.Mll. also by autoicous sex condition. A. acauloides is the second species of Archidium discovered in Mexico. 
10.2307/3243461|The concentrations of seven elements (N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Na, Fe) were analyzed in the uppermost green parts of 21 Sphagnum species collected from bogs and fens in southwestern Poland. Correlation coefficients and factor analysis (FA) clearly separate N, P, and K, accumulated in the upper parts by active uptake, from Ca, Mg, and Na, for which passive cation exchange processes are important. Iron is not correlated, or is correlated negatively, with all other elements. A comparison with results from northern Scandinavia and western Canada showed nearly twofold higher concentration for N in the present material, probably due to an additional supply from manmade acid rain, and on the other hand twofold lower concentrations of Mg and Na in the Polish specimens, probably due to varying oceanic influence. The average contents of N, P, K, Ca, Mg, and Na were significantly higher in the minerotrophic than in the ombrotrophic Sphagnum group. However, the greatest differences for particular species of these two groups were found for K and P, and it is concluded that tissue concentrations of these two elements can be used as indicators of trophic status when studying the bog-fen limit.
10.2307/3243136|Epiphyte communities in low-elevation conifer forests of the Swan Valley of western Montana appear to respond to complex gradients of canopy structure and density, stand age, and moisture. Epiphytes "read" the environment differently than do vascular plants. Specifically, stand age and moisture gradients that are reflected in the vascular vegetation are differently expressed by epiphytes. Epiphytes tend to equate young stands with dry stands and old stands with wet stands in the Swan Valley, more so than vascular plants. A strategy of investigation using both ordination and classification methods was used to clarify patterns in composition and environment.
3244768|The neotropical liverwort, Plagiochila rutilans Lindenb., is conspecific with P. remotifolia Hampe & Gottsche, P. farlowii Steph., P. harrisana Steph, and P. organensis Herzog. Plagiochila standleyi Carl is reduced to a variety of P. rutilans. Plagiochila gymnocalycina (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Mont. and P. portoricensis Hampe & Gottsche (= P. simplex (Sw.) Lindenb.) are excluded from the synonymy of P. rutilans. Plagiochila rutilans var. liebmanniana Gottsche is a synonym of P. crispabilis Lindenb.; P. rutilans var. laxa Lindenb. and var. angustifolia Herzog are conspecific with P. gymnocalycina. Sporophytes of P. rutilans are described for the first time. Fresh material of P. rutilans exhibits a distinct odor of peppermint caused by the presence of several menthane monoterpenoids, principally pulegone. NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) fingerprints and GC-MS data indicate that the lipophilic secondary metabolite profiles are distinct for the two varieties accepted in this study.
10.2307/3243811| Three moss species-Fissidens capitulatus Nog., Aerobryopsis parisii (Card.) Broth., and Neckeropsis semperiana (Hampe ex C. Mll.) Touw-are reported new to mainland China. The sporophytes of Neckeropsis semperiana are described and illustrated for the first time. 
10.2307/3242074|The isidiate Xanthoparmelia moctezumensis, described as a new species from northern Mexico, produces the depside 3--hydroxybarbatic acid and lesser amounts of barbatic, baeomycesic and squamatic acids. These medullary depsides differ from each other by the level of oxidation of a C
10.2307/3243541|Sphagnum distribution was studied on twenty-seven peatlands found along a transect extending from the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia, to central Alberta. Based on surface water chemistry, oceanic mires are either ombrotrophic bogs or poor fens, while in subcontinental areas, mires range from extreme-poor fens to moderate-rich fens. Species are grouped into five clusters; stands into ten. Species groups and stand dispersal are determined by climate and surface water chemistry, especially corrected conductivity and calcium, magnesium, and potassium concentrations. Sphagnum species habitats are limited to mires having low cationic contents and corrected conductivities. Seven of eighteen species studied are limited by climatic factors to oceanic areas. Sphagnum fuscum is the most widespread of all the species studied, independent of climate and surface water chemistry. Only three Sphagnum species are present in moderate-rich fens. Most of the species height requirements along the hummock-hollow gradients are present on the mires studied, and the height relative to the water table does not limit the geographic distribution of these species. Height is limiting only for species found at either end of the topographic gradient. Tree-produced shade does not limit the habitat of any of the species studied.
10.2307/3241121|The new species Syzygiella inouei Grolle is described and figured from the alpine belt of Bolivia. It differs from all known Syzygiella species by dorsally highly connate leaves and by coarse papillae aggregated on a big wart in the center of the cell wall. In addition, the species hitherto known as S. rubricaulis (Nees) Steph. is transferred to Jamesoniella: J. rubricaulis (Nees) Grolle, comb. nov.
10.2307/3242131|The familial placement of Jubula has long been controversial because of this genus' possession of both frullanioid and lejeuneioid features. Assessment of significance of these traits, however, has not involved a comparative developmental study of all taxa in the genus. In this study, experimental and histological techniques have been used to study morphogenesis and anatomy of representative taxa. Throughout the genus, sporelings develop precociously and possess both endosporic and exosporic protonemal phases, much like Ceratolejeunea, while growth and differentiation of the adult plant is Frullania-like. Leaf brace cells are lacking, water-sac development and insertion are as in Frullania, and branches are of either the Frullania or the Bryopteris types. Antheridia generally occur on Bryopteris-type branches, which are spicate in most taxa to capitate in Java populations; production of male inflorescences on Frullania-type branches characterizes Hawaiian populations and experimental Jubula pennsylvanica. Archegonia occur in pairs or, rarely, in groups of 3 at the apex of the main shoot and possess long, slightly twisted necks. Following fertilization they will be enclosed by an elongate, 3-keeled perianth, and a single set of bracts and bracteoles, and will be subtended by one or two Radula-type innovations. The sporophyte generation of all taxa possesses a small, turnip-shaped foot, a reduced seta and a globose capsule. Although smaller than most Frullania sporophytes, this sporophyte possesses a frullanioid developmental pattern. The morphogenetic patterns of all representative taxa and populations are extremely constant and suggest that Jubulla has been derived from Frullania and is phylogenetically distinct from the Lejeuneaceae.
10.2307/3241804|Seventy-five genera and 288 species of lichens are reported from the North Cascades Range, Washington. Twenty of these represent new records for Washington. The list includes all literature reports as well as recent collections.
10.2307/3243654|Ten liverwort species are reported new to Hong Kong: Aneura pinguis (L.) Dum., Makinoa crispata (Steph.) Miyake, Marchantia emarginata subsp. tosana (Steph.) Bischl, Marchantia polymorpha L., Metzgeria furcata (L.) Dum., Riccardia jackii Schiffn., Riccardia latifrons (Lindb.) Lindb., Riccardia multifida (L.) S. Gray, Riccardia palmata (Hedw.) Caruth., and Riccia glauca L. Among them, five are new to Guangdong Province.
10.2307/3242306|Recent rediscovery of Sciaromium tricostatum (Sull.) Mitt. (= Limbella tricostata (Sull.) Bartr.) in Oregon suggests that a population found in Oregon in 1922 was not a short-lived introduction. No significant differences were seen between Oregon and Hawaiian plants, although habitats appear to differ markedly. Sex organs are frequent on plants from both areas; the species is dioicous. Inflorescences are described and illustrated. Relationships to other taxa will remain obscure until its recently discovered sporophytes are described.
10.2307/3243607|Improvement in the air quality of the upper Ohio River valley has led to lichen recolonization at previously depauperate sites. Between 1973 and 1989 the number of lichen species in the area almost doubled and the mean species per site increased from 0.8 to 3.5. An indicator species, Flavoparmelia caperata, was completely absent in 1973 but occurred at half of the study sites in 1989.
10.2307/3242179|When the family name, Pseudoditrichaceae, was proposed (Steere & Iwatsuki, 1974), based on Pseudoditrichum mirabile Steere et Iwatsuki gen. et sp. nov., no Latin diagnosis was furnished for it. This oversight is remedied herewith.
10.2307/3241358|Mielichhoferia mielichhoferi (Hook.) Wijk & Marg. is reported from the San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado. Acid conditions and high concentrations of copper and sulfate are present in its substrate.
10.2307/3241617|A new moss genus, Neomacounia, is described and illustrated. The genus is based on Forsstroemia nitida Lindb. from southeastern Ontario, Canada, following the discovery of a second specimen of the species which provided additional morphological data.
23321029|Many aspects of forest structure are thought to contribute to the presence, abundance, and diversity of forest-floor bryophytes. To what extent easily measured characteristics of local environment (overstory structure or substrate availability) explain patterns of abundance and diversity remains unclear in most forest ecosystems. We explore these relationships in four mature, Douglas-fir dominated forests in southwestern Washington (U.S.A.). At each site, six 13-ha stands were sampled systematically (787 total plots) to capture variation in physical environment, forest overstory and understory vegetation, substrates, and forest-floor bryophytes. We compared bryophyte species composition, richness, and rank abundance among sites. We used multiple linear regression to model local cover and richness as functions of the physical environment, overstory and understory vegetation, and substrate availability. We compared the contributions of substrates to bryophyte abundance and richness and measured the strength and consistency of associations between individual species and particular substrates. Bryophyte composition differed significantly among sites, but patterns of richness and rank abundance were surprisingly similar, despite differences in stand structure and climate. Regression models explained only 1823% of the variation in bryophyte cover or richness, likely due to weak relationships between vegetation structure and microclimate, disparity in the spatial scales of measurement, and temporal lags in bryophyte responses to structure. Most non-litter substrates (mineral soil, rock, fresh or decayed wood, stumps, shrub and tree bases) contributed minimally to available growing space, but disproportionately to species richness, particularly at the stand scale. Individual species were most often associated with decayed wood, although few species showed strong substrate specificity. In general, however, substrates contributed to ecological redundancy, with most species occupying multiple substrates and most substrates supporting a diversity of species.
10.2307/3242296| In 1925, Brotherus included 47 specific names in his subgenus Macrocoma. Since then, five additional species names have been included in the concept of Macrocoma. Of these 52 names, nine can be recognized as distinct species, one with two subspecies. The genus Macrocoma is divided into two subgenera-Macrocoma with nine species and Trachyphyllum (Broth.) Vitt with two species. Within Macrocoma there are seven species found in the New World and six in the Old World. Macrocoma iwatsukii Vitt is described as a new species from the eastern Himalayan Region. The earliest correct name for the widespread Macrocoma sullivantii (C. Mll.) Grout (= M. hymenostomum (Mont.) sensu Grout) is M. tenue (Hook. & Grev.) Vitt subsp. sullivantii (C. Mll.) Vitt. An attempt is made to typify and discuss all 52 names that have been placed in Macrocoma. 
10.2307/3241773|With the exception of four counties along the west slope of the Sierra Nevada, Ramalina menziesii Tayl. is restricted in California to a coastal zone influenced by maritime conditions of fog or high humidity. Apparently the species is poorly adapted for survival in areas with extended periods of desiccation. It is hypothesized that the observed thallus water content during the early morning hours is sufficient to maintain low levels of photosynthesis for 2-3 hours. Morphological variations in R. menziesii indicate that the reticulate structure has an adaptational value in increasing water holding capacity of the thallus.
10.2307/3242238|Scapania hians is known from a meager collection sorted from a moss collected by Giraldi in 1896 in Shensi, China. Plants recently discovered in British Columbia, Canada, and described here as a new subspecies, are apparently the only collection of the species made since the type specimen was first found in Shensi.
10.2307/3243726|Collections from west-central Wyoming extend the range of Orthotrichum holzingeri Ren. & Card. in Holz. southward from the Yellowstone area. The species occurs in a unique habitat of periodically inundated rock surfaces near streams in dry, montane forests. It is most closely related to O. laevigatum, differing in calyptra, leaf cells, peristome, and leaf features. Scanning electron micrographs illustrate these morphological differences. The three species of Orthotrichum that occur on periodically inundated rock surfaces have a constant set of features and are found in two separate subgenera of the genus.
10.2307/3240951|The first report is made for 38 taxa of lichens and 46 of bryophytes from the interior of northern Ellesmere Island. Protoblastenia terricola is cited as new to Canada, and Acarospora molybdina, Cladonia coccifera, Hypogymnia austerodes, Rinodina nimbosa, Squamarina lentigera, Peltolepis quadrata, Andreaea rupestris, and Splachnum ovatum as new to Ellesmere Island. An additional 14 species are reported as northern range extensions for Ellesmere Island.
10.2307/3243431|Fissidens hyalinus, F. flabellulus, and F. ganguleei are reported new to mainland China, and a second collection of F. brevinervis is reported from Guangdong Province.
10.2307/3242652|Lectotypes are selected for ten names in Ditrichum flexicaule sensu lato. The collective species is composed of two taxa which here are treated as species. Ditrichum flexicaule s. str. has relatively short aporose cells in the sheathing base of the leaves, and a leaf subula with a bistratose margin bordering a unistratose lamina; it is often fertile. Ditrichum crispatissimum has relatively long porose cells in the sheathing base, and a leaf subula with a unistratose margin or a bistratose margin which is confluent with the costa; it is rarely fertile. Ditrichum flexicaule is known from North America, Europe and Siberia, whereas D. crispatissimum is known from North America, Europe, USSR: Siberia and Kirgiziya, China, New Guinea and New Zealand.
40732275|Phylogenetic relationships of 36 samples of Mannia and other Aytoniaceae were inferred based on sequences of the chloroplast trnL-trnF region and partial nuclear ribosomal LSU (or 26S) gene and using Targionia hypophylla and Athalamia hyalina as outgroups. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses were conducted on individual and combined molecular datasets. All phylogenetic tree topologies showed polytomies but suggest that Mannia has evolved from within Asterella and that there are two supported Mannia clades. Because Mannia is paraphyletic, with A. gracilis most closely related to M. triandra and M. pilosa, A. gracilis is transferred to Mannia. The major morphological differences between those genera are reevaluated. Based on molecular and morphological evidence Mannia is divided into the subgenera Mannia and Neesiella; Asterella subg. Graciles becomes a synonym of Mannia subg. Neesiella.
10.2307/3243761| Ramalina africana (B. Stein) Dodge, previously known only from eastern Africa, is reported new to the New World from Pennsula de Paraguan, Edo. Falcn, and Chiguar, Edo. Mrida, Venezuela. 
10.2307/3243070|Trachyodontium zanderi Steere, gen. et sp. nov., is described as a new taxon. It differs from Leptodontium in the bordered leaf margins and the spiculose peristome teeth, but resembles it in the large size, the lanceolate, recurved leaves, and the long-sheathing perichaetial leaves. As far as is known, it is restricted to a single river valley in Ecuador, where it is relatively abundant.
10.2307/3241211|Morphogenetic changes were induced in Petalophyllum ralfsii thalli. Thallus pieces, after treatment with Pektolase and shaking, produced thalli with separate leaves. Pieces from these new thalli produced normal plants when not treated with Pektolase and shaking. Abnormal thalli resulted when the nutritional medium was supplemented with 4% glucose.
10.2307/3241152| Sphagnum portoricense Hampe, Leucobryum martianum (Hornsch.) Hampe ex C. Mll., and Hemiragis aurea (P. Beauv.) Ren. & Card. are reported for the first time in Puerto Rico from localities outside the Sierra de Luquillo. 
10.2307/3243109|An ultrastructural analysis of spermatogenesis in the liverwort Blasia pusilla was undertaken to consider, in detail, the development of the spermatogenous tissue, the origin and ontogeny of the blepharoplast, organelle metamorphosis and repositioning, and the cytoplasmic deletion process. Mechanisms of polarity, and spatial and temporal changes in cellular components are discussed. In spermatogenesis of Blasia, the reduction in plastid number occurs early in the development of the antheridium. A biplastidic condition is maintained for several generations. In the final divisions of the antheridium, the cells are monoplastidic. The cell plates are oriented perpendicular to the long axes of these cells until the ultimate mitosis in the spermatid mother cell. The centrosomes are produced in this cell and become positioned in diagonally opposed corners of the cell where the mitotic spindles form. The plane of division in the androcyte mother cell is, therefore, diagonal and produces a pair of spermatids in which the organelle placement is established for the ultimate spiralled condition of the gamete. In the nascent spermatid the single centrosome splits into two centrioles which reorient in a side-by-side location. The basal bodies initially grow anteriorly, along with the MLS, producing the proximal extensions typical of liverwort spermatids. The ABB becomes fixed in position and is at its maximum length before the PBB. Posterior growth of the MLS continues as the PBB increases in length and moves rearward to establish the basal body stagger of the mid-stage gamete. The LS ceases growth when the PBB is at its maximum length. Following this, posterior growth of the spline continues and is synchronized with the growth of the flagellar axonemes. The fully developed spline forms the backbone upon which nuclear shaping occurs. Plastid migration and elongation, in contrast, is synchronized with spline growth. Final streamlining of the spermatozoid involves the elongation and condensation of all organelles, and the elimination of over 90% of the cytoplasm. The mature gamete coils for nearly two revolutions and contains two mitochondria, an elongated nucleus, a single plastid, and the locomotory apparatus.
3244800|The lichenicolous fungi represent an important ecological group of species that form obligate associations with lichens. They have been studied seriously for over 200 years and the European species are especially well collected. However, collecting in other areas has been far less systematic and many new species await discovery. North American species are especially under-studied and this review is intended to stimulate the collection and study of these species. To encourage this study by lichenologists, we review the sorts of interactions formed by lichenicolous fungi with their lichen hosts, discuss various aspects of host specificity, virulence, chemical ecology, and evolution of lichenicolous fungi and provide a complete taxonomic listing of lichenicolous genera arranged as far as possible into natural groupings. In each section we suggest research topics in need of further study, and provide a listing of significant literature. We hope by calling attention to the largely unexplored biodiversity of lichenicolous fungi, investigators will take up the study of these fascinating organisms.
10.2307/3242413|Lichens containing blue-green algae were measured by transects and reconnaissance in six major temperate vegetation types to estimate possible significance in annual nitrogen budgets and patch dynamics within ecosystems, and to estimate how a functional ecosystem attribute, i.e. nitrogen fixation, correlates with vegetation structure. Lichen cover was negligible in sagebrush desert, pinyon-juniper woodland, ponderosa pine forest and alpine tundra, but averaged 72 m
10.2307/3241924|Cladonia nemoxyna (Ach.) Arn. is to be replaced by C. rei Schaer. Cladonia fibula Hoffm. is reduced to synonymy with Cladonia gracilis (L.) Willd.
10.2307/3241217|The presence of silicon in the spherical papillae on the surface of leaves of Scapania nimbosa and S. ornithopodioides is demonstrated by means of electron probe microanalysis. The occurrence of silicon in other genera of leafy hepatics is predicted.
10.2307/3241973| Amphidium lapponicum (Hedw.) Schimp., Bryum klinggraeffii Schimp., Grimmia apocarpa var. stricta (Turn.) Hook, & Tayl., Isopterygium elegans (Brid.) Lindb., Pterogonidium pulchellum (Hook.) C.Mll., Tortella tortuosa (Hedw.) Limpr., Trachypodopsis serrulata var. crispatula (Hook.) Zant. and Vesicularia inflectens (Brid.) C.Mll. are new to the Hawaiian Islands. Twenty-two new island records are reported. Four recent noteworthy collections, including confirmation of Brachymenium indicum (Dozy & Molk.) Bosch & Lac. in Hawaii, are discussed. 
10.2307/3244368|A panel of six McAbs were developed against arabinogalactan-proteins (AGPs) produced by a leafy liverwort, Gymnocolea inflata (Huds.) Dum. Five of these specify AGPs that are only released into the nutrient culture medium when increased cell proliferation correlated with an increase in the size and number of leaves and branches is experimentally induced. Because of this, we hypothesize that the AGP(s) specified by one or more of these McAbs function to help suppress cell proliferation, especially in certain leaf and branch primordia. The sixth McAb specifies AGPs that are released into the culture medium whether or not an increase of cell proliferation and organ initiation is induced. This panel of McAbs should prove to be a valuable asset for identifying, affinity purifying, and chemically characterizing one or more AGPs that appear to mediate the temporal and spatial suppression of cell proliferation in developing organ primordia.
10.2307/3243785|The following new xanthones are shown to co-occur in various combinations with other known naturally occurring xanthones: 2-chloronorlichexane (in Lecanora populicola Lecanora sp.), 7-chloronorlichexanthone (in Lecanora populicola, Lecanora sp.), 5-chloro-6-O-methylnorlichexanthone (in Lecanora contractula), 5-chlorolichexanthone (in Lecanora contractula), 7-chloro-6-O-methylnorlichexanthone (in Lecanora populicola, L. salina, L. sp.), 2,4-dichloronorlichexanthone (in Lecidella vorax), 2,7-dichloro-3-O-methylnorlichexanthone (in Lecanora behringii, L. salina, L. sp.), 2,7-dichloro-6-O-methylnorlichexanthone (in Lecanora behringii, L. populicola, L. salina, L. sp.), 2,5,7-trichlorolichexanthone (in Lecanora broccha), 4,5,7-trichloro-6-O-methylnorlichexanthone (in Pertusaria pycnothelia var. A), 3-O-methylthiophanic acid (in Lecidella meiococca), and 6-O-methylthiophanic acid (in Micarea isabellina). Griseoxanthone C (3-O-methylnorlichexanthone) is reported for the first time from a lichen (Lecanora vinetorum). The joint occurrence of these chloroxanthones has been rationalized in biosynthetic terms and represented in a series of pathway diagrams. All were found to constitute coherent arrays of major xanthones and biosequentially related satellite derivatives. In so doing we have established the methodology for predicting expected co-occurrences and completing similar data sets for other xanthone-containing species.
10.2307/3240632|All species of the genus of lichenized fungi Coenogonium known from the United States are described and a key to their identification is provided. C. implexum and C. interplexum are reported for the first time from the United States. It is emphasized that characters of the phycobiont cannot be used in the identification of associated species of Coenogonium and the keys here are based entirely on mycological features of fertile thalli.
10.2307/3240598|The fluorescence spectrum of atranorin and the absorption spectrum of chlorophyll are compared. A role of atranorin in the utilization of low light intensities and of lichen pigments in the quenching of high light intensities in the lichen thallus is suggested.
3244755|Pyxine subcinerea Stirton is newly reported for New York State. The distribution of Pyxine subcinerea in the eastern United States is established. Morphological and chemical differences between P. subcinerea, P. albovirens, and P. caesiopruinosa are recognized, clarified, and expanded upon.
10.2307/3243612|The checklist includes a listing of the species and varieties of Sphagnum in North America, north of Mexico. In all, 72 species and six varieties are recognized. A list of synonyms and excluded taxa is included.
10.2307/3243321|Rigodium Kunze ex Schwaegr., a genus of tropical to austral-temperate pleurocarpous mosses, is comprised of six species and one variety. Prior to this study, 26 species were recognized, with five additional species generally accepted as belonging to other genera. Species of Rigodium, all dioicous, have wiry stems and branches, strongly dimorphic stem and branch leaves, extremely incrassate leaf cells that are prorulose to varying degrees (depending on the species), and hypnoid peristomes. The habit varies from arborescent with a well-developed stipe (e.g., R. toxarion) to more derived forms with either prolific (R. implexum) or reduced (R. pseudo-thuidium) branching. The genus has a disjunct distribution in Central and South America and southeastern Africa. The plants, usually epiphytic or terrestrial, generally grow in moist, montane forests. The center of diversity for the genus, where all six species occur, is in the Andean Cordillera along the Chilean-Argentinian border in central Chile. Observations on morphology, including those made with scanning electron microscopy (SEM), compose the basis of this revision, which includes computer-assisted analyses of phenetics (principal component analysis or "PCA" and canonical discriminant analysis) and cladistics (Phylogenetic Analysis Using Parsimony, PAUP). One previously undescribed species (R. adpressum) and one new combination at the varietal level (R. toxarion var. robustum) are presented. Rigodium is maintained within the monotypic Rigodiaceae, possibly most closely related to the Thuidiaceae.
10.2307/3241700|Fissidens appalachensis sp. nov. is described from North Carolina and Tennessee. It is the only representative of the section Pachylomidium known for North America north of Mexico.
10.2307/3242251|Gyroweisia nigeriana Egunyomi & Olarinmoye is described and illustrated as a new species from Nigeria. It differs from G. tenuis (Hedw.) Schimp. by its larger size, by its long rostrate operculum and by its smaller pores. Although it resembles G. tophicola (C.Muell.) Par., it differs from it by its nerve ceasing just below the apex.
10.2307/3240580|Fourteen species of Anaptychia sens. lat. are recognized in North and South Carolina. A chemical analysis of 233 specimens showed a close relationship between the chemistry of species and the morphology of their spores. Most of the species produce atranorin and one or more of several additional substances and have thick-walled spores. These species are referred to the genus Heterodermia. One species produces no substances in addition to atranorin and has thin-walled spores. It belongs to Anaptychia sens. str. along with other well known species chemically and morphologically closely allied to it but not represented locally. Most of the Carolina species show geographic distributions which are highly correlated with the three physiographic provinces into which the region is divided.
10.2307/3241900|Funaria americana Lindb., Ptychomitrium serratum B.S.G. and Tortula ruralis (Hedw.) Gaertn., Meyer & Scherb. are reported for the first time in Tennessee. Ranges for all three mosses are significantly extended.
10.2307/3244106|The occurrence of Grimmia Hedw. (Bryopsida, Grimmiaceae) in Africa is insufficiently known and the recent bryological literature reports only a small number of species. Current revision of about 2400 herbarium specimens revealed many more species than so far reported. At this moment, the number of species is 32, a number that may be enlarged in course of the revision. Two taxa are described as new: Grimmia maido H. C. Greven sp. nov. is endemic to La Reunion and Grimmia sanii H. C. Greven sp. nov. is endemic to the upper regions of the Drakensberg in South Africa.
20110938|Dioicous bryophytes often exist in isolated populations with low rates of sexual reproduction. While most populations contain individuals of both sexes, some species have single-sex populations that depend solely on asexual reproduction for population expansion and persistence. Life history trade-offs can constrain population divergence and the relative investment in growth, asexual and sexual reproduction may differ in single-sex and both-sex populations. A common garden experiment and field observations were used to assess trait variation and determine genetic differences among single-sex and both-sex populations of Marchantia inflexa, a dioicous liverwort. Populations were significantly genetically differentiated, and plants from single-sex and both-sex populations differed in their life history strategies. Plants from single-sex populations invested more in growth than asexual production, and although they produced as many sexual structures, they produced fewer gametangia per gametophore than plants from both-sex populations. Characteristics of female plants were positively correlated with geographic, nearestneighbor distance, whereas characteristics exhibited by male plants showed no relation to geographic distance. Single-sex populations of M. inflexa in Oklahoma and populations from Florida form a distinct phenotypic group within the species that deserves further study.
10.2307/3243292|Arthonia palmulacea, Calenia aspidotum, and Sporopodium phyllocharis are reported new to the United States, all in Florida. The presence of Lopadium fuscum in the United States is confirmed.
10.2307/3242115|Eight taxa of mosses are reported as new to the state, and additional distribution notes are included for four others.
20110946|Examination of the holotype of Orthotrichum rhytiore B. H. Allen reveals gametophytic characters which support the placement of the species in Ulota. The species is peculiar within the genus due to its unusual sporophyte morphology, and the occurrence of these sporophytic characters in Ulota is discussed. Ulota rhytiore (B. H. Allen) F. Lara, Garilleti, Albertos & Mazimpaka comb. nov. is the first known species of the genus in tropical America.
20485805|Funaria macrocarpa (Funariaceae) is shown to be an earlier name for Costesia spongiosa (Gigaspermaceae). The species is, however, retained in the genus Costesia and a new combination is hence proposed: Costesia macrocarpa. The species, endemic to central Chile, belongs to the Gigaspermaceae, a small family with six mainly monospecific genera with a widely scattered distribution in the Southern Hemisphere. Both basionyms are lectotypified. A morphological description and a discussion of the geographic distribution of the species are provided.
10.2307/3243077|Review of recent and historical specimens of Mitthyridium (Musci: Calymperaceae) from Malaysia, and adjacent regions reveals 12 species. A key, synonymy, diagnostic features, illustrations, and differentiation from similar species are given for these 12 species, together with an index to all names cited.
10.2307/3242698| The seasonal response matrix of gas exchange in Parmelia disjuncta is presented for a number of factorial combinations of light, thallus temperature, and thallus water content throughout the year. The results show a general level of adaptation to a xeric, low-arctic environment with maximum rates of net photosynthesis occurring at 14C and 100-150% water content by weight. The data show a significant increase in respiration in the winter collection, presumably signalling a cold-hardened state. In addition there is a clear response to summer high-light conditions with net photosynthetic rates responding markedly to the maximum levels of illumination used. These capacity changes are discussed in terms of "winter hardening," photosynthetic acclimation (which infers homeostatic control), as well as capacity changes that offer an alternative strategy allowing maximum carbon gain with a minimum "maintenance cost." Field measurements at Churchill, Manitoba show that thallus temperatures, under moderate radiation conditions in summer, reach 26C whilst air temperature was ca. 9C. Accordingly, under high radiation and even with the normal coastal windy conditions, thallus temperatures of 35C are very likely to occur, with perhaps 45C being reached around solar noon. These high thallus temperatures are induced by both the dark colour and the virtually crustaceous habit of the thallus. The response of air-dry replicates to thermal stress is remarkably uniform with no evidence of stress effects after 21 days storage with a maximum daily temperature of 35C. Even after three weeks storage under 45C, there is only slight evidence of reduced photosynthetic capacity. This finding emphasises that although there may be an overall correlation between latitude and the ability of a lichen to tolerate thermal stress, there will be numerous exceptions. Each species may have a very specific niche with an equally specific set of strategies allowing optimum carbon assimilation and growth. 
25614897|The taxonomic pattern of algal association with lichen fungi may be explained by the fungal selection of algae that are available in the habitat, genetic compatibility between symbionts or mode of reproduction of the lichen. This study examined algal selection among species in the genera Evernia, Pseudevernia and Imshaugia of the Parmeliaceae using nucleotide sequences of the algal Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA), the algal actin gene, the 1512 group I intron and secondary RNA structures. The hypothesis of high selectivity within one species of Evernia examined, E. mesomorpha, was supported suggesting that E. mesomorpha exhibits high selectivity toward its photobiont, which is not shared with other species of lichenized fungi in the same habitat. The eight strongly supported ITS clades correspond with two newly described algal species broadly known as Trebouxia jamesii s.l. and one existing species, T. simplex. The possibility of lateral algal transfer is discussed with reference to algal availability and mode of reproduction of the lichen.
3244829|Biatora printzenii sp. nov. is described from eastern North America. Cheiromycina flabelliformis, Chrysothrix chrysophthalma, Opegrapha corticola, and Rinodina flavosoralifera are reported new to North America. The report in The Bryologist 99: 196 (1996) of Fuscidea light-footii as new to North America was based on misidentifications.
10.2307/3244231| Based on fieldwork and revision of herbarium specimens, the occurrence of Grimmia in Mexico is reviewed. Grimmia austro-funalis C. Mll., G. bernouillii C. Mll., G. cribrosa Hedw. (Coscinodon cribrosus (Hedw.) Spruce), G. donniana Sm., and G. torquata Hornsch. are reported new to Mexico. Grimmia mexicana H. C. Greven, sp. nov. is described. 
10.2307/3242965| The new species Heterodermia sitchensis is described from British Columbia, Canada, where it is apparently a rare epiphyte restricted to sheltered localities at low elevations along the highly oceanic outer coast. Zeorin and atranorin are its primary phenolic constituents. Particularly interesting are the sterile, but sorediate, apothecial structures of this species. Heterodermia sitchensis is possibly a vicariad of the fertile H. podocarpa (Bl.) Awas. 
10.2307/3243972|Weissiodicranum insularum Reese gen. et sp. nov. is described on six specimens from the Galapagos, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico. The new species is superficially similar to Weissia breutelii C.M., with which it is sympatric in part, but is distinct in having differentiated alar cells and enlarged cells on the dorsal surface of the costa. The familial placement is uncertain due to lack of sporophytes but the new genus is tentatively assigned to the Pottiaceae. A lectotype is designated for Weissia breutelii C.M.
20061149|Microdendron Broth., an eastern Asian endemic genus, was initially described based mainly on the tree-like gametophytes, but there have been several conflicting taxonomic treatments. In this study, we sequenced three DNA regions of Microdendron: the nuclear 18S, and chloroplast rbcL and trnL-F. Phylogenetic analyses indicate that Microdendron is nested within Pogonatum, suggesting that the genus should not be recognized. Additionally we found an indel in the trnL intron region shared by the two genera, which also indicates the close relationship between them. Moreover, the probable allies of Microdendron sinense Broth. within Pogonatum are suggested based on detailed investigation under the scanning electron microscope.
10.2307/3241468|The gametophore of Dendroligotrichum dendroides (Hedw.) Broth. is differentiated into a multiseriate cortical region in which is embedded a central cylinder of tissues. The central cylinder consists of a core of cells, the hydroids, surrounded by a leptome sheath of parenchyma and sclerenchyma. The hydroids are elongated cells with unpitted lateral walls and oblique primary end-walls which overlap those of adjacent cells. In this respect they are similar in appearance to the hydroids described in Polytrichum except for one important difference: the lateral walls are impregnated with lignin. The hypothesis of a water conducting role is proposed for the hydroids. Lignified cells were also found in the leptome sheath surrounding the hydroids and in the inner cortical cells. Lignin is localized in the secondary walls and adjacent primary walls. The parenchyma cells of the leptome sheath which possess oblique primary end-walls may be similar to the leptoids described in Polytrichum.
10.2307/3242527|Hygrohypnum closteri (Aust.) Grout occurs in central North Carolina beyond its previously known range. Habitat descriptions are given for other rare species, including Fissidens ravenelii Sull., Dicranum sabuletorum Ren. & Card., Anacamptodon splachnoides (Froel. ex Brid.) Brid., Dumortiera hirsuta (Sw.) Nees, Frullania kunzei Lehm. & Lindenb. and Riccardia chamedryfolia (With.) Grolle.
10.2307/3243715|Niche breadth and overlap values of S. magellanicum, S. recurvum, S. sancto-josephense, and S. subsecundum var. rufescens from four peatlands in southern Ecuador are similar to those reported for Sphagnum-dominated peatlands in North America. The pH, conductivity, and concentrations of Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Na, and P indicate that these peatlands are similar to intermediate or transitional poor fens in the Northern Hemisphere.
10.2307/3244507|Recent studies have shown that levels of uranium (U) in lichens located near a U mine decreased substantially within three years after the mine ceased operations. To determine whether aqueous washing could displace U, podetia of Cladina rangiferina (L.) Harm. and Cladina mitis (Sandst.) Hale & Culb. that were impregnated with soluble uranyl nitrate hexahydrate (UO
10.2307/3242628| Forty-three moss species are reported new to the Department of Antioquia, Colombia. Twelve of these mosses are also new to Colombia: Actinodontium portoricense Crum & Steere, Breutelia subdisticha (Hampe) Jaeg., Bryohaplocladium microphyllum (Hedw.) Watanabe & Iwats., Cyclodictyon subtortifolium (Bartr.) Buck, Holomitrium aboreum Mitt., Hookeriopsis purpureophylla (Britt.) Broth., Schlotheimia angustata Mitt., S. rugifolia (Hook.) Schwaegr., S. torquata (Hedw.) Brid., Stenodictyon bisodalense Allen, Crosby & Magill, Taxiphyllum taxirameum (Mitt.) Fleisch., and Tortula mniadelphus (C. Mll.) Broth. A total of 327 species is now known for the Department of Antioquia, Colombia. Rhynchostegiopsis flexuosa (Sull.) C. Mll. from the Department of Meta, and Rhacopilopsis trinitensis (C. Mll.) Britt. & Dix. from the departments of Meta and Santander are new to Colombia. A key is provided for the species of Schlotheimia for Colombia. /// Cuarenta y tres especies de musgos son nuevas para el Departamento de Antioquia de las cuales doce son nuevos registros para Colombia: Actinodontium portoricense Crum & Steere, Breutelia subdisticha (Hampe) Jaeg., Bryohaplocladium microphyllum (Hedw.) Watanabe & Iwats., Cyclodictyon subtortifolium (Bartr.) Buck, Holomitrium arboreum Mitt., Hookeriopsis purpureophylla (Britt.) Broth., Schlotheimia angustata Mitt., S. rugifolia (Hook.) Schwaegr., S. torquata (Hedw.) Brid., Stenodictyon bisodalense Allen, Crosby & Magill, Taxiphyllum taxirameum (Mitt.) Fleisch., y Tortula mniadelphus (C. Mll.) Broth. Un total de 327 especies es ahora conocidas para el Departamento de Antioquia, Colombia. Rhynchostegiopsis flexuosa (Sull.) C. Mll. es ahora conocida para el Departamento de Meta y Rhacopilopsis trinitensis (C. Mull.) Britt. & Dix. se d para los Departamentos de Meta y Santander; ambos nuevos para Colombia. Se provee una clave para las especies de Schlotheimia de Colombia. 
10.2307/3244528|A new lichen species with isidia Hypogymnia hengduanensis, containing barbatic acid and atranorin, was described by Wei in 1984. This chemical revision, using the combined methods of microcrystal test (MCT), thin-layer chromatography (TLC), and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) shows that diffractaic acid is the major compound in addition to barbatic acid and atranorin in H. hengduanensis.
10.2307/3241364|Eight species are reported as new to the hepatic flora of New Mexico, bringing the number of liverworts known from the state to 52.
10.2307/3244179|The internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA were sequenced for 16 specimens of the lichen Dendrographa leucophaea (Tuck.) Darb. (Roccellaceae) in order to determine whether the sterile and fertile specimens within the species (also called a species-pair) form two distinct monophyletic groups. Forty-four informative sites were obtained. Phylogenetic trees were calculated from aligned sequence data, using Dendrographa alectoroides Sundin & Tehler as an outgroup. The cladistic analysis produced two most parsimonious trees, from which a consensus tree was calculated. Well supported clades containing both sexual and asexual specimens were found in the tree, confirming the theory that asexual specimens of so-called species-pairs are not monophyletic.
10.2307/3242087|Samples of Parmelia sulcata Tayl. and Hypogymnia enteromorpha (Ach.) Nyl. were fumigated with ozone for 12 hours at concentrations of 0.0, 0.5 and 0.8 ppm. Injury to each species was documented as a significant reduction in gross photosynthesis during the course of the fumigation period. Parmelia sulcata exhibited greater sensitivity to ozone than Hypogymnia enteromorpha, a fact consistent with field observations in southern California where extensive ozone injury occurs.
10.2307/3240741|Fifteen nomenclatural changes are proposed in connection with a revision of Grout's 1940 checklist of North American mosses.
20110822|Brotherella cuspidata is described as a new species from Yunnan, China. It differs from the other species of Brotherella in its small plants (ca. 1 cm long), slender and long-cuspidate leaf acumina (more than  of the length of the lamina), and broadly triangular-lanceolate perichaetial leaves. Brotherella complanata is reported here as a new record to China from Chongqing, Hunan, Jiangxi and Zhejiang provinces. Detailed descriptions and illustrations are provided for each species.
10.2307/3243940| Bryum bicolor Dicks, gametophytes maintained for 2 weeks in the light at 5 and 25C contained 9.8-11% total lipids. Dark incubation was associated with a slight decrease of these values. The nonpolar lipids of this moss consisted predominantly of triacyglycerols in addition to smaller proportions ofsterols, fatty acids, steryl esters, and aliphatic alcohol esters. The predominant polar lipid classes were monogalactosyldiacyglycerols, digalactosyldiacylglycerols, sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerols, and diacylglycerophosphoglycerols. Smaller proportions of diacylglycerophosphocholines, diacylglycerophosphoethanolamines, sphingomyelins, and steryl glycosides were also present. Lipids from plants maintained at 5C contained higher proportions of digalactosyldiacyglycerols and sulfoquinovosyldiacylglycerols than lipids from plants incubated at 25C. Arachidonic and eicosapentaenoic acids were esterified in the nonpolar lipids, phospholipids, and sulfolipids, but were absent in the galactolipids. Incubation of the moss under continuous illumination at 5C was associated with increased concentrations of linolenic acid in monogalactosyldiacylglycerols and of arachidonic and eicosapentaenoic acids in the phospholipids and nonpolar lipids. 
40732270|Specimens of Caloplaca belonging to the group of C. citrina (Hoffm.) Th. Fr. were collected in different localities in the provinces of Buenos Aires (Argentina) and studied using morphology and nrlTS data. They were identified as C. austrocitrina Vondrak, Riha, Arup & Schting, a species newly described from the Black Sea area, but also found in other European countries. These findings are the first mention of this species for South America and broaden its distribution range considerably. The results also show that the specimens from Argentina are genetically very similar to the European ones and that the variation in this gene within the species seems to be very low.
10.2307/3243753| Light-induced senescence in detached young, middle-aged, and old Marchantia tissue was suppressed by spermine, spermidine, and putrescine. Ethylene induced senescence in Marchantia tissue. This effect was retarded by putrescine. The presence of M quantities of putrescine in extracts of Marchantia was tentatively determined. 
10.2307/3241666| The family Hookeriaceae is represented in Cuba by 14 genera, 37 species, and one variety. Of these, four species and the variety are endemic to the island; namely, Amblytropis denticulata Thr., Crossomitrium cubense P. Varde & Thr., Cyclodictyon lindigianum var. acunae Thr., Hookeriopsis cubensis Thr., and H. subincurva Thr. All the taxa are described, discussed, and illustrated and keys to their identification are given. 
10.2307/3242093| Fulgoicin and fulgidin, two new depsidones have been isolated from Fulgensia fulgida (Nyl.) Szat., and their structures established on the basis of spectroscopic evidence and chemical analogy. Analysis of multiple specimens of F. bracteata (Hoffm.) Rs. subsp. bracteata, F. fulgens (Sw.) Elenk. and F. subbracteata (Nyl.) Poelt suggest that chemical studies may do much to resolve current taxonomic uncertainties in this genus. 
10.2307/3241425|Buxbaumia aphylla Hedw., found in an old homestead field north of Fairbanks, is reported for the first time in Alaska. This is a significant range extension for the species.
10.2307/3240487|Precipitation and maximum and minimum temperatures (air and bryophyte layer) were measured for six-month periods for two and one-half years in the gorge region of the southern Blue Ridge notable for its rich bryophytic flora with many endemics and disjunct species with tropical affinities. Stations were maintained both in and outside the gorges. The region receives high precipitation (85-100 inches per year) which is very reliable from year to year. There is some indication that the highest rainfall is at the heads of the gorges near the top of the lower escarpment (2,500-3,000 feet elevation). Both air and bryophyte temperatures in the gorges were more moderate than those outside. High temperatures never occurred within the gorges, and the gorge bryophyte habitats never dried out as did the bryophyte habitats on the ridges and in the valleys below. This mild, wet mountain environment is unique in eastern North America. It is postulated that the endemic and disjunct "tropical" bryophytes remained in the gorges in relatively mild and moist microenvironments during the whole of the Pleistocene.
10.2307/3243104|Several species of Anthoceros were analysed for abscisic acid (ABA). They all contain ABA-like immunoreactive material based on a combined HPLC-monoclonal-antibody-ELISA-analysis. The stomata-bearing sporophytes and the tubers of A. dichotomus contain significantly more ABA-immunoreactivity than the stoma free thallus. The concentration of this material in the sporophytes increases with tissue age, resulting in a high level in the apical parts. When
10.2307/3243805|Opegrapha hypothallina (Zahlbr.) Tehler and O. ravenelii (Tuck.) Tehler, both formerly assigned to Schismatomma, are new combinations.
10.2307/3243544|Evernia prunastri produces isotomic dichotomous branches at annual intervals in the Willamette Valley of western Oregon, as determined by photographic study and correlations between tree ring counts and lichen thallus branch counts. Branch points can be counted to determine the age of individual thalli. Besides the main dichotomous branches, a variable number of anisotomic adventitious branches is produced from older branches. A small amount of error in age determinations is introduced by occasional irregularities in the branching and previous physical damage to the thallus.
20061148|An overview of the cyanobacterial lichen genus Lichinella in southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico is given. Eleven species are briefly described, notes on relationships among the species are discussed, and distribution maps are provided. Lichinella granulosa is described as new to science. It forms granulose areoles or small squamules with slightly effigurate margins. The new species develops globose to short cylindrical or clavate outgrowths on the upper thallus surface. These progagules are interpreted as soredia. They may function as a second type of diaspore in addition to the sexually produced ascospores. The name change Lichinella myriospora is validated. Lichinella flexa, L. iodopulchra, L. myriospora, L. robustoides, and L. sinaica are new records to the lichen flora of the United States. Lichinella cribellifera, L. minnesotensis, and L. myriospora are new to Mexico.
3244696|Sphaerolejeunea umbilicata Herzog, the only species of the genus Sphaerolejeunea Herzog, was until now known only from the type material collected in the Andes of Colombia in 1922. This critically endangered epiphyllous liverwort was rediscovered recently in the understory of a lower montane rainforest in northern Peru. It stands out by its leaf lobes bordered by hyaline cells, strongly inflated lobules, and terete perianths without keels or beak. The sporophyte, described here for the first time, is characterized by the seta made up of 4 + 12 cells, valves remaining suberect after dehiscence, the inner tangential capsule walls lacking fenestrate, sheet-like thickenings, and the 18 marginal and 4 additional elaters lacking spiral bands. Based on morphological similarities, Sphaerolejeunea is considered to be closely related to Lejeunea. In the present paper a complete description with illustrations is presented as well as a discussion of the ecology of the species, the systematic position and generic affinity of Sphaerolejeunea within the Lejeuneaceae, and its conservation status.
10.2307/3242674|Campylopus aureus Bosch & Lac., a species widespread in SE Asia and also reported from California and Oregon, is reported from the Hawaiian Islands, where it had been named Campylopus introflexus (Hedw.) Brid.
10.2307/3242751|The bizarre phenolic substances produced by many lichen-forming fungi are assumed to have important biological roles, an idea that has led various investigators to speculate on topics ranging from light-screening to rock mineralization. At the present time, three proposed roles-antimicrobial, allelopathic and antiherbivore-are best supported by the available evidence. Anti-microbial: The fact that lichens grow slowly and yet are resistant to decay microorganisms suggests that lichen substances, known to be clinically effective antibiotics, also have a protective role in nature. Indeed, this may be their principal role. However, there is little direct evidence from field studies. Allelopathic: Recent studies show that lichen substances can inhibit seed germination of vascular plants and spore germination of mosses and lichens, demonstrating a possible allelopathic role for these substances. The ecological significance of such inhibitory effects in natural species assemblages that include lichens, however, requires more research. Antiherbivore: Despite their availabilty as food to generalist herbivores, lichens are seldom eaten, suggesting that lichen substances deter feeding. Recent research, done primarily with invertebrate consumers, indicates that some lichen compounds are capable of defending lichen thalli from predation.
20485751|A synopsis of the 10 genera and 34 species of Pilotrichaceae recorded from the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil is provided, presenting a key to the genera and species, synonyms, comments, distribution and altitudinal range and illustrations. Recently, the authors excluded poorly known taxa and doubtful records of the family from Rio de Janeiro, reducing by 39% the total taxa number of Pilotrichaceae for the state. These taxa are given in a list at the end of the present work.
10.2307/3242491|Seligeria diversifolia Lindb. is reported from northeast Greenland and is new to the Greenland moss flora. The known distribution of this species in North America is restricted to arctic Alaska and southeastern Canada.
10.2307/3243905|To estimate epiphyte biomass in tall forests, the only viable alternative to tree climbing methods is to sample litterfall. To evaluate the potential for using epiphyte litter to estimate epiphyte biomass, epiphyte litter and in situ epiphyte biomass were estimated independently in each of three Pseudotsuga-Tsuga heterophylla stands in the Cascade Range of Oregon and Washington, U.S.A. Litter was collected in late summers of two years in 20 2-m-radius plots. Groups of trees were felled and sampled for epiphytes. Samples were sorted into four groups: cyanolichens, alectorioid lichens, other lichens, and bryophytes. For lichens, biomass of litter (L) was strongly related to epiphyte biomass (B) (r
10.2307/3244046|The endemic, maritime Antarctic lichen Catillaria corymbosa usually occurs on exposed, rocky bird perches. However, we have found some populations of this lichen in sheltered, shaded overhangs, little affected by precipitation or run-off, and of a very different microclimate. Thallus anatomy, morphology, and water relations were studied in these two populations of C. corymbosa together with a third population of intermediate environmental conditions (small, vertical fissures). Photosynthetic response to light of thalli from these three populations was briefly explored by exposing the samples to the same levels of irradiance under homogeneous, semi-natural environmental conditions. The results revealed significant structural and physiological differences among the specimens from each population. Specimens from protected microsites possessed a larger percentage of thallus surface area occupied by soredia and larger chlorophyll contents than those from exposed microsites. Specimens from protected microsites were able to retain water for longer periods of time than those from the exposed microsites, and exhibited the highest net photosynthetic rate on a dry weight basis and the lowest light compensation point for photosynthesis. Thalli from small fissures exhibited intermediate values for most of the parameters studied. Catillaria corymbosa from shaded localities showed an increased water retention capacity and light harvesting efficiency (less self-shading among photosynthetic units), which translated into an enhanced photosynthetic utilization of the periods of hydration and of the available light. This remarkable phenotypic adjustment seemed critical for colonization of shaded places with low availability of liquid water in maritime Antarctica.
10.2307/3241732|Seven mosses are reported for the first time from Arizona. One species is excluded from the flora.
10.2307/3240679| Fissidens kochii Crum & Anderson, previously known only from the type locality in Louisiana, is reported from four additional localities in Louisiana and from Florda. Nanomitrium austinii (Sull.) Lindb. is reported as new to Louisiana, and N. wrightii (C. Mll.) Bryan & Anderson as new to continental North America. Taxiphyllum alternans (Card.) Iwats. is reported as new to Louisiana, and additional records in Louisiana are given for Tortula vectensis E. Warb. & Crundw. Trichostomum jamaicense (Mitt.) Jaeg. & Sauerb. is reported as new to Alabama and Louisiana. 
3244621| Cellulose-acetate filter disks were found convenient for the cultivation of lichen mycobionts and artificial re-synthesis of lichens, and using this method of culture we tested the effects of acidification on Cladonia cristatella Tuck. Mycobionts subjected to short-term strongly acidic conditions showed decreased formazan production compared to colonies grown at optimal pH 5.0. Disk-supported synthetic lichens grown at pH 3.0 or 5.0 exhibited no significant differences in pigment chemistry or photosynthetic efficiency compared to those at pH 7.0, but all of these parameters changed at pH 1.5. Chlorophyll a integrity significantly decreased under all treatments involving acidified water, with the highest amount of degradation at pH 1.5. At pH 1.5, significantly decreased concentrations of both -carotene and total carotenoids were observed. A significant decrease in chlorophyll a fluorescence was also shown at pH 1.5. 
10.2307/3242701|Members of the Cladonia chlorophaea-C. fimbriata complex were collected in western Washington in the summer of 1979 to examine their secondaryproduct chemistry, morphology, and distribution. Eight chemotypes were identified, including four that had not previously been reported from this region and one characterized by the production of 4-O-methylcryptochlorophaeic acid as the major secondary product that is new. Specimens producing only fumarprotocetraric acid in this region could be separated into two groups on the basis of morphology. The first group was characterized by the production of granular soredia, short trumpetshaped podetia, and compound apothecia, and was referred to C. chlorophaea sens. str. The second group had farinose soredia, goblet-shaped podetia with dentate margins, and simple apothecia, and was referred to C. fimbriata (L.). These two species are the most abundant and widespread members of this complex in western Washington and were collected from all habitats from which collections were made. Most of the remaining chemotypes could also be divided into two groups according to chemistry, morphology, and distribution. Two chemotypes produced closely related fatty acids, rangiformic acid and protolichesterinic acid as their major secondary products and exhibited a close morphological affinity to C. fimbriata on the basis of their farinose soredia, podetial shape, and simple apothecia. In addition, these two chemotypes were collected more frequently from woody substrates and forested areas than the other members of this complex. Three of the chemotypes contained the closely related orcinol meta-depsides merochlorophaeic acid, 4-O-methylcryptochlorophaeic acid and sekikaic acid as their major secondary products. These chemotypes had large trumpet-shaped podetia, granular to corticate soredia, and compound apothecia. Specimens of this group were collected predominately from open areas, especially the natural prairies that occur in southwestern Washington. In fact, the sekikaic acid chemotype is apparently restricted to these prairies in this part of its range. Excluded from these two groups are two remaining chemotypes that produce bourgeanic acid and atranorin, respectively.
10.2307/3241523|Cells composing the protonemata of Buxbaumia aphylla Hedw. are highly vacuolate and have numerous plastids along the homogeneous cell walls. Walls between the elongate cells are perforated with plasmodesmata. The plasmodesmata appear not to have the internal complexity shown for some plasmodesmata in angiosperms.
3244848|Lecanora burgaziae, a new epiphytic species, is described from central Spain. It belongs to the Lecanora varia group with amphithecial cortex, and is closely related to L. densa and L. varia by the presence of psoromic acid and a distinctly thickened amphithecial cortex. The major differences are in thallus color, apothecia appearance and shape, and spore size. Lecanora burgaziae has a green thallus and greenish to slightly brown apothecial disc. Additionally, it has a thin apothecial margin and average spore size interval that does not overlap with other species in the group. We also included the first report of Lecanora coniferarum, L. densa, and L. laxa in Europe. A synopsis of the species of Lecanora varia group with amphithecial cortex in Spain is presented. Descriptions, notes on the ecology and distribution, and a key to the 10 species recognized in Spain are included.
10.2307/3241592|Parish locations are indicated for about 50 of the sites in Louisiana where A. B. Langlois (1832-1900) collected lichens in the late 1800's.
10.2307/3241189|Studies of natural communities of lichens subjected to chronic gamma irradiation were carried out in the irradiated forest at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Observations were made before the start of irradiation and 9 and 22 months thereafter. A complete survey of the lichens in one sector showed no evidence of radiation-induced damage although some secondary effects apparently resulting from the radiation-caused removal of the tree canopy were seen in some Cladoniae. Photographs showed lichens to be able to persist within 6 and 8 m of the source at radiation levels of over 1000 r/day. Foliose thalli (Parmelia sulcata) between 18 and 34 m from the source (at 230-62 r/day) grew vigorously, even faster than control thalli outside the irradiated forest. The high resistance to radiation in lichens may be explained by their diffuse "meristem" or growth points and by the very minute nuclear volumes of the fungal and algal components.
10.2307/3242090|A new dichlorodepsidone norgangaleoidin has been isolated from Lecanora chlarotera Nyl. together with gangaleoidin and atranorin. Norgangaleoidin has been fully characterized using spectroscopic methods, and it has also been synthesized from gangaleoidin.
10.2307/3243724|Calymperes levyanum Besch. var. hainanense Reese & P.-J. Lin and Syrrhopodon hainanensis Reese & P.-J. Lin (Musci: Calymperaceae) are described as new from Hainan Island, China.
10.2307/3244464|A
3244685|The peristome of O. obtusifolium Brid. is typically double and composed of remnants of cell walls from three peristomial layers. A prostome has never been reported for this species. Here we report the occurrence of a prostome for this taxon based on a single population from western Canada. This prostome extends over the complete surface of the exostome tooth, but falls off shortly after the dehiscence of the capsule.
10.2307/3241096|Zygodon apiculatus from Missouri is described as new.
10.2307/3243824|Seventeen species of Staurothele are reported from North America. Of these S. effigurata Thoms., S. orispruinosa Thoms., S. rugosa Thoms., and S. verruculosa Thoms. are new to science. The description of S. lecideoides Bouly de Lesd. is emended. A key to species, descriptions, maps, photographs, and discussions are provided. Extensive synonymies combine a number of previously reported species. The shape of the hymenial algae is not accepted as a taxonomic criterion.
10.2307/3242860|The new species Ramalina luciae is unique among the sekikaic acid-producing members of the R. farinacea complex in its very low content of homosekikaic acid and in its lack of mono-O-demethyl derivatives of homosekikaic acid.
10.2307/3244074|Taxa delimitation in Reboulia is investigated with morphological analyses, chromosome counts, and variation in isozyme patterns. The formerly single, polymorphic species attributed to the genus, Reboulia hemisphaerica, recently subdivided into several taxa, is shown to comprise four genetically distinct entities, one polyploid and three haploids. Genetic similarity coefficients between the haploid electrophoretic groups were below 0.550. The polyploid was formerly described as Reboulia queenslandica or R. hemisphaerica var. australis from Australia and New Zealand. It is suspected to have originated from an intercross between two of the haploid groups, as inferred from allelic constitution. One of the putative haploid progenitors is widespread in Europe, Asia, Africa, and America and fits the definition of Reboulia hemisphaerica in the strict sense. A morphologically indistinct sibling component of this latter taxon has been detected in the western Mediterranean area. The other putative haploid progenitor is distributed in Japan and corresponds morphologically to R. hemisphaerica var. orientalis. Uncertainty as to priority of names precludes at present conclusive statements on the nomenclatual status of these genetic entities. Gene diversity statistics were calculated only for Reboulia hemisphaerica in the strict sense, confirming that marchantialean liverworts are less polymorphic than mosses.
10.2307/3240773|Seven species in the Parmelia conspera group - P. conspera (Ach.) Ach., P. tinctina Mah. & Gillet, P. piedmontensis Hale (a new species), P. plittii Gyeln., P. dierythra Hale (a new species), P. mexicana Gyeln., and P. subramigera Gyeln. - are distinguished by the color of the underside and the presence of four diagnostic acids (stictic, norstictic, salacinic, and fumarprotocetraric). The lichen acids are strongly correlated with the distributional patterns.
10.2307/3241021|Fifty-eight species in 36 genera have been established in pure culture. Techniques are described for the isolation of spores and for the culture of the plants.
10.2307/3243872|The name Umbilicaria vellea has been applied to several taxa, but herein the taxon is circumscribed as a Holarctic species of Europe and North America with two different types of rhizinomorphs occurring in two layers. In more southern areas of North America a second taxon with one variable type of rhizinomorph and typically larger thalli is present. We propose the erection of U. americana to accommodate the previously unrecognized taxon. It further differs from U. vellea in that the lower cortex soon turns shiny black whereas in U. vellea the lower cortex remains light for a long time before turning dull black. A key is provided to assist in distinguishing these two species from other related species. Umbilicariae are particularly difficult to interpret because multiple individual thalli covering a range of ages must be collected to understand the full developmental sequence.
10.2307/3244548| Gyalidea pacifica Harada & Vzda is described as new from Hachijo Island of the Izu Islands, Japan. It was found growing on non-calcareous stones. 
10.2307/3243154| The range of Cavernularia hultenii in eastern North America extends as far north as southern Labrador (5140N) and the northernmost tip of Newfoundland (5135N). The habitats of C. hultenii are described. All share a highly humid microclimate. In northern Newfoundland, this apparently drought-sensitive lichen is most common near the east coast where the general climate is more favorable for the generation of suitable microhabitats. 
10.2307/3241720|This report presents an annotated list of the 206 lichen taxa collected in the foothills and mountains of Alberta, on Field Trip 2 of the joint meetings of the Canadian Botanical Society and the American Institute of Biological Sciences. Included are 44 taxa that have not previously been reported from the province and one species, Solorinella asteriscus, that is new to North America. The foray, which had 13 collection stops, was over a 645 mile long route with an elevation range of 2200-7000 feet from Calgary, through Rocky Mountain House and Jasper, to Edmonton. Also included is a description of the vegetation of the area.
10.2307/3244252| Diurnal time courses of in situ photosynthetic activity of lichens and mosses growing on a granitic boulder in Sierra de Guadarrama, central Spain, were measured during five days in October, 1993. A portable chlorophyll fluorometer was used for assessing photosynthetic activity of four lichen and two bryophyte species together with photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) incident at the thallus surface and thallus temperature. The quantum efficiency of photosystem II (PSII; F/Fm), and the apparent electron transport rate through PSII (F/Fm x PPFD) were calculated. The weather changed from wet to dry conditions during the period of measurements. Exposure- and species-related differences in the photosynthetic performance were observed. Both moss species, Hedwigia ciliata and Grimmia pulvinata, showed no sign of thallus drying and the photochemical efficiency of both species was mainly controlled by the diel patterns of PPFD. In contrast, water loss was the major limiting factor for metabolic activity in the lichen species. Exposure- and species-related changes in thallus color indicating water loss occurred as early as on 18 October in Umbilicaria spodochroa and with a 24-hr-delay in Lasallia hispanica and Umbilicaria grisea (19 October). In Lasallia pustulata thallus color changes were visible only on 20 October when dry weather induced severe dehydration in all lichen species. Within the same species, different microhabitat resulted in a different physiological performance depending on water balances as well as on PPFD conditions. The data demonstrate the potential of field measurements of chlorophyll a fluorescence as a non-intrusive tool for the analysis of the in situ photosynthetic performance of poikilohydric organisms without altering rates of water loss and uptake, which are always crucial in the photosynthetic performance of poikilohydric organisms under natural conditions. 
10.2307/3242102|Lichens were surveyed at 128 sites around a coal-fired power plant in an unurbanized region of southeastern Ohio. Corticolous lichens were found to be useful indicators of air quality while terricolous and saxicolous species were not. Mapping revealed void areas in the distribution of Parmelia caperata (L.) Ach. and P. rudecta Ach. The area of affect was smaller than most of those reported for cities, and in this hilly region, site elevation was found to be an important factor influencing lichen distribution.
3244335|The bark of isolated Oregon white oaks (Quercus garryana Dougl.) supports a distinctive bryophyte flora. Savannah oaks are now rare, but isolated oaks remain in urban and agricultural areas. I documented the bryophyte flora and searched for Syntrichia laevipila var meridionalis, previously considered rare in the Pacific Northwest, on isolated oaks in urban and agricultural areas throughout the Willamette Valley. Most bryophytes on the wet sides of trunks were pleurocarpous mat-formers, while most on the dry sides were acrocarpous cushion- or turf-formers. Isolated oaks and their distinctive bryophyte community occurred to 201 m elevation, but S. laevipila var meridionalis was present only at or below 100 m elevation, never without the variety laevipila. Dry bark bryophytes were often heavily grazed, possibly by springtails or slugs. Gemmipary, present among several oak-dwelling species, may be a response to grazing or exhaust fumes.
10.2307/3244203|Genetic markers from horizontal starch-gel eletrophoresis show that the common and widespread, bisexual moss Plagiomnium cuspidatum is an allopolyploid. One of its progenitors is the East Asian P. acutum, but neither of the other two species of Plagiomnium sect. Plagiomnium (P. japonicum and P. drummondii) fits the expected allelic profile of the second progenitor. Moreover, both P. japonicum and P. drummondii are highly genetically distinct from each other and are isolated within the section. Isozymes enabled us to detect two new haploid species, each of which is characterized by several unique alleles and whose genetic identity with other known taxa is < 0.71. One of these species appears to be restricted to limestone outcrops in the southeastern United States and is probably the source of sporadic earlier reports of "haploid" or "unisexual" plants of P. cuspidatum. The second new species is so far known only from the island of Shikoku, Japan. Unfortunately, neither of these new species fits the allelic profile of the second progenitor of P. cuspidatum.
10.2307/3243671|Fourteen mosses are added to the flora of Alabama and 19 are reported for the second time or are otherwise of interest.
10.2307/3241502| Pannaria melamphylla is shown to be a member of the Lichinaceae and is placed provisionally in the genus Gonohymenia. Two lichens new to the North American flora are reported from the southeastern United States: Heppia tortuosa (Nees) Vain., previously known from Brazil, and Pleurotheliopsis australiensis (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr., previously known from Australia. The new combination Gonohymenia melamphylla (Tuck.) Henss. is made. Gonohymenia mesopotamica J. Stein is reported as a synonym of Rechingeria cribellifera (Nyl.) Serv., and the genus Forssellia Zahlbr. as a synonym of Pterygiopsis Vain. The relationship between the Lichinaceae and the Heppiaceae is discussed. 
10.2307/3243287|Bryum calobryoides is described as new based on collections from British Columbia, Alberta, Washington, Idaho, Montana, Colorado, and California. Some herbarium specimens were determined as B. capitellatum C. Muell & Kindb., which is a form of B. capillare. Affinities of the new species are unclear. Distinctive features include small size, julaceous stems, broadly ovate to suborbicular, concave leaves, obtuse to acute leaf apex, with or without an apiculus, and costa usually to midleaf or percurrent. Sporophytes are unknown. The species is found on acidic to basic rock and soil at montane to alpine elevations.
10.2307/3242418|This is the second in a series of papers analyzing the bryophyte-macrolichen flora of sandstone canyons in southern Illinois. Nineteen species of mosses, twenty-one species of hepatics and 6 macrolichen elements were found within 4 study areas in Panther's Den, Union County, Illinois. For each of the above, frequency, basal area, relative cover and importance value were calculated. This information, combined with similarity coefficients, indicates a range of microhabitat conditions which create a flora dominated by common southern Illinois species. It also includes some unusual taxa. As in an earlier study differences in aspect and vertical stratification appear to be significant factors affecting species distribution.
10.2307/3241747|Gemmae, quite different from the ones found in certain other members of the genus, have been found in a Riccardia which appears to be a member or close ally of the R. pinguis complex. An isolate of male plants from Ponape, Caroline Islands, has been studied in culture. It produces erect narrow sprouts, and these bear stalked multicellular gemmae. Their development is described. Similar gemmae have been observed in Riccardia material from Samoa. Normal spore discharge in Targionia involves drying of the thallus. The resulting curvatures lift the female receptacle into the air, and the flaps open to expose the spore mass.
10.2307/3242226|Molendoa hornschuchiana (Hook.) Lindb. ex Limpr., a species previously reported from mountainous areas of central Europe, northern Africa, India, China and Japan, is found in the New World at low elevations in the coastal Chugach Mountains of southern Alaska, U.S.A.
10.2307/3242178|The arctic moss Hygrohypnum polare (Lindb.) Loeske has been found in Labrador, a major range extension to the south and east for the species. The distribution of H. polare in North America is mapped.
10.2307/3242966| Two moss genera, Archidium and Porothamnium and six species are reported for the first time from Nigeria. The mosses include Campylopus torrentis Thr. et P. Varde, which has not been reported outside the type locality (Gabon) since its description. 
41486740|The genetic relationships and species boundaries of three species of Aerobryopsis, including a new one and a closely related taxon, Aerobrydium filamentosum within the Meteoriaceae of the Western Ghats of India were estimated based random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers and morphological characters. Using 12 decamer primers 72 RAPD markers were identified, of which 69 (96%) were polymorphic. Amplicons of the primers OPF-01 and OPD-08 served as distinct markers to discriminate the species of Aerobryopsis and Aerobryidium filamentosum. The multivariate analyses of morphological and molecular data indicate that all the samples belong to four distinct species. RAPD proved to be a useful tool to detect genetic relationships of these closely related taxa and Aerobryopsis eravikulamensis Manju & Rajesh, a new taxon, is illustrated and described.
10.2307/3243569|Tetrodontium repandum (Funck) Schwaegr. and Seligeria diversifolia Lindb. are reported from northwestern Ellesmere Island, in the Canadian High Arctic. This is the first report of the moss family Tetraphidaceae from the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. These two discoveries add considerably to the evidence from temperate or anomalous disjunct bryophytes supporting Quaternary glacial refugia in the Canadian High Arctic.
10.2307/3244466|The sporophyte-gametophyte junction of Lorentziella imbricata (Mitt.) Broth., in the mature stage, is characterized by transfer cells with wall ingrowths in both the sporophyte foot and the surrounding gametophyte tissue. The foot is globose in shape and does not penetrate extensively into the tip of the gametophyte axis. A cluster of cells, the original hypobasal cell of the embryo and a few cells immediately adjacent to it, do not enlarge with the remainder of the sporophyte but apparently remain intact and are found at the base of the globose foot. Epidermal cells of the sporophyte foot have well developed and extensive wall elaborations, particularly on their outer tangential walls closest to the gametophyte tissue. Cells of the central strand of the seta extend into the foot region and also have wall ingrowths, but typically only on their endwalls. Wall ingrowths in the gametophyte are less extensive than those of the sporophyte and typically are found only on inner tangential walls closest to the sporophyte. The structure of the sporophyte-gametophyte junction suggests a system of transport from the gametophyte into the sporophyte. A broad based sporophyte foot and an extensive system of wall ingrowths suggests that movement of materials from the gametophyte into the sporophyte is an integral part of the developmental sequence in this minute moss. Movement from the gametophyte into the sporophyte foot and upward through the seta is suggested by the distribution of wall ingrowths in these cells and by the plasmodesmatal connections between the cells of the sporophyte axis. Completing its life cycle in a short period of time likely requires the development and maintenance of an efficient system for rapid movement of materials during favorable times for growth of this ephemeral moss.
10.2307/3242259|Tortula scotteri Zander & Steere is newly described from the Northwest Territories, Canada. It is closely related to T. velenovskyi Schiffn. of eastern Europe, which also has the unusual feature of elaboration of photosynthetic tissue along the leaf margins, otherwise known only in species of Barbula and Pseudocrossidium. Barbula aurea (Bartr.) Zander is a new combination for Tortula aurea Bartr.
10.2307/3242914|Frullania cobrensis Gott. ex Steph. is reported from five previously uncited counties in Florida. The species is considered widespread in peninsular Florida but with a restricted ecology. It is limited mainly to Taxodium-hardwoods swamps but with infrequent occurrences in white mangrove communities and pine flat woods.
10.2307/3242338|In the New World Cetrelia cetrarioides and C. monachorum are well represented only in the southern Appalachian Mountains where the latter species is about tenfold more common than the former. In contrast, these species appear to be equally abundant in western Europe. Both species are reported from the highlands of Oaxaca, Mexico, extending the known southern range of the genus in the New World some 2500 km southwest of the southern Appalachians. The complex but remarkably stable chemosyndromes of each species from Mexico, North America and Europe are illustrated by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography.
40982992|Biodiversity of threatened species can be preserved in cryopreservation repositories, allowing storage of biological information and future re-introduction to the wild. The success of ex situ programs for species conservation relies on using simple and efficient cryopreservation techniques. Bryophytes may be classified as stress-tolerant plants, but a large fraction worldwide is nevertheless threatened by extinction to various degrees. The aims of this study were to investigate how to exploit natural stress tolerance of bryophytes in the development of simple cryopreservation protocols without the use of cryoprotectants or pretreatment. We studied regeneration capacity of bryophytes found at different moisture and light conditions in vivo (reflecting varying levels of plant desiccation tolerance), both sampled from herbarium specimens of varying ages and also collected in situ during winter season and thus naturally cold acclimated. Furthermore, to identify optimal samples for direct cryopreservation we investigated how the ability to regenerate corresponds to the fragment size. We show that young samples (< 7 yrs) of the most desiccation tolerant species regenerate via protonemata, where shoot tips regenerate better than small plant fragments. Herbaria can therefore represent a source of samples for direct cryopreservation when using desiccation tolerant species, stored for a limited time. Conversely, all species sampled in situ regenerated, mainly through budding. In these plants, the number of regenerated samples is positively correlated to desiccation tolerance, and they show a higher frost tolerance than previously reported.Cryopreservation without pretreatment or cryoprotectants of cold acclimated bryophytes can therefore be used as a simple and efficient method for storage of bryophyte tissue.
41289802|The lichens Parmelia olivacea and Parmeliopsis ambigua are common epiphytes in subarctic forests in Europe. They differ in abundance and vertical distribution particularly on birch trees, and these differences relate to the level and duration of the winter snow cover. Parmeliopsis ambigua is covered much of the cold season on the lower trunk whereas P. olivacea occurs well above the snow surface. Periods over 6 months under snow have no apparent effect on P. ambigua thalli while much shorter snow cover has been demonstrated to kill P. olivacea. It was hypothesized that the contrasting distributions are due to differences in growth rates and in size and quality of non-structural carbon stores in their tissues affecting their endurance to extended periods of dark respiration. To test these hypotheses, growth measurements were performed on both species and their thalli were sampled for chemical analyses. The results show that the mean annual margin extension growth of P. olivacea thalli was significantly higher than that of P. ambigua, i.e. 1.1 mm and 0.5 mm, respectively. The average nonstructural carbohydrate concentration in the two species did not differ, but the annual concentration of storage lipids (triacylglycerol) in P. ambigua was four times higher than that in P. olivacea, despite a shorter growing season and lower rate of photosynthesis. The proportion of polyunsaturated fatty acids in structural (polar) lipids was high in both species, i.e. 77% in P. olivacea and 64% in P. ambigua, which appears to enable both species to withstand low ambient thallus temperatures. The higher concentration of storage lipids in P. ambigua allows survival in environments where P. olivacea would respire to death, e.g. under a prolonged snow cover. Parmeliopsis ambigua avoids competition by establishing toward the base of the tree trunk, where P. olivacea would not survive.
10.2307/3241123|Twenty-eight taxa of mosses are added to the 530 previously known taxa of bryophytes from Alberta.
10.2307/3243183| Weissia subangustifolia (Thr.) comb. nov., Morinia stenotheca (Thr.) comb. nov. and Leptodontium viticulosoides var. sulphureum (Lor.) stat. nov. are proposed to replace Hyophila subangustifolia Thr., Barbula stenotheca Thr. and L. viticulosoides var. panamense (Lor.) Zand., respectively. 
10.2307/3241638|One hundred and fifty-one species and four varieties of Musci are documented from northern Ellesmere Island, Arctic Canada. My studies have added 39 species and four varieties to the northern Ellesmere moss flora. The annotations include comments on distribution and abundance, habitats, altitudinal range, and fertility of each taxon on northern Ellesmere. Where appropriate, morphological variation and taxonomy are discussed. A new variety, Splachnum vasculosum var. heterophyllum, is proposed to accommodate arctic specimens of S. vasculosum. Cyrtomnium hymenophylloides, Distichium hagenii, Fissidens arcticus, and Polytrichum hyperboreum are illustrated. New data and observations on the taxonomy of the following taxa are presented: Aulacomnium acuminatum, Brachythecium groenlandicum, B. turgidum, Fissidens arcticus, Funaria arctica, Grimmia apocarpa var. nigrescens, Splachnum vasculosum, Voitia hyperborea, and V. nivalis.
10.2307/3242753|Although the usefulness of chemistry in the taxonomy of lichen fungi is unquestioned, its application to specific systematic problems varies considerably. The reasons for this inconsistency and for the reluctance of some workers to use chemical characters with confidence, involve 1) practical problems (e.g., difficulty in demonstrating certain compounds), 2) biological factors (e.g., chemical variation due to the nature of the lichen), and 3) philosophical differences (e.g., having to do with various species concepts and character weighting). These problems are not insurmountable. With a better understanding of the nature of the problems, lichen taxonomists should be able to reduce the number of inconsistencies in the use of chemical data.
3244862|We measured colony growth over a three year period in the obligate epiphytic moss Neckera pennata Hedw. in three forest sites in eastern Sweden. Increment in colony area was proportional to colony size; hence area growth was modelled with the exponential growth function. Growth was measured over four periods (ca 0.5 to 1 yr long), among these periods relative growth rate varied between 0 and 35% yr
10.2307/3242127|The ultrastructure of meiotic prophase in a moss is described for the first time. Six stages based on light and electron microscopic observations of Ditrichum pallidum are recognized. 1. Premeiotic sporocytes encased in a polysaccharide layer, which persists through spore formation, are released into the spore chamber by lysis of the archesporial cell walls. 2. Synaptinemal complexes (SCs) form. 3. Nuclei containing well-developed SCs migrate to the sporocyte periphery and assume the acentric "bouquet" appearance. 4. Pachytene nuclei return to a more central position. 5. Nuclei enter a diffuse stage with chromatin relaxed; cytoplasmic furrows produce four lobes in tetrahedral arrangement; microtubules appear and proliferate around the plastid in each of the four lobes and finally ensheath the nucleus. 6. The nuclear membrane is disassociated; chromatin recondenses into chromosomes and kinetochore-microtubule attachments form. Although no novel structures were observed to be associated with spindle formation and orientation, microtubules were first observed in the region of the plastids. Only plastid behavior, i.e., two successive divisions resulting in four plastids positioned in the four lobes just prior to the onset of meiosis, parallels the phenomenon of precocious cytoplasmic lobing.
10.2307/3241181|The North American representatives of the genus Alectoria are summarized and a key to their identification is given. Of the 30 species treated, three are new; namely, A. ambigua, A. tenerrima, and A. canadensis. Several other species are added to or deleted from the North American catalog. Numerous Alectoriae not currently known from North America but which may occur there are discussed and included in the key.
10.2307/3243252| Homomallium sharpii is described as new based on a specimen collected by A. J. Sharp at La Perra, above Gmez Farias, Tamaulipas, Mexico. Most important diagnostic characters of this species are: branches not, or only slightly, homomallous; stem and branch leaves rather well differentiated; and comparatively few subquadrate alar cells (8-13 along the margin in branch leaves). 
10.2307/3241719|Seventeen species of macrolichens are reported for the first time from British Columbia, including one new species Pannaria leucostictoides. An eastern North American species, Hypogymnia krogii, is segregated from H. enteromorpha and described as new. A new combination, Hypogymnia inactiva, is made and a preliminary key to the Hypogymnias of North America is presented. Additional information on distribution, morphology, and chemical substances is given for 37 species of lichens.
10.2307/3241443|A very high correlation between the cation-exchange capacity and the content of galacturonic acid was found in eight species of Sphagnum from Sandy Ridge Bog, in central New York State. An equally high correlation exists between the cation-exchange capacity and the optimum elevation for growth, measured in height above the water table.
10.2307/3241772| Winter acclimated Fontinalis novae-angliae plants were subjected submersed to temperatures ranging from 1 to 100C for various periods of time or to dry heat of 45-85C for 5 days. When replaced in their native stream most plants, except at the lowest temperatures, lost their leaves or turned yellow-green. Survival at all temperature treatments was evident more than 6 months later when leafless branches exhibited short green shoots. 
10.2307/3240675|Recent collections from west-central Illinois of Mnium cuspidatum Hedw. were heavily infected with the imperfect fungus Schizotrichella lunata Morris. The setae and portions of the capsules of the moss sporophytes were abundantly covered with dark, cushion-shaped sporodochia with elongate setae.
23321027|Umbilicaria semitensis was described by Tuckerman in 1872 based on a specimen from Yosemite National Park. Despite the species having muriform spores, in contrast to simple spores in U. angulata, U. semitensis has long been treated as a synonym of U. angulata, owing to the superficial similarities of the thallus. Analysis of the ITS and LSU regions of nrDNA supports the hypothesis that the species are distinct. In addition to the spore and DNA differences, the two species are largely allopatric, and only know to co-occur in one site in Oregon. Umbilicaria semitensis ranges from southern California to southern Oregon, while U. angulata ranges from California to arctic Alaska.
10.2307/3242552|Lichen samples collected from several locations in the northeastern United States from 1907 to 1980 were analyzed for lead content to establish accumulation trends indicative of atmospheric Pb pollution patterns. The main collection site was Plummers Island, Maryland, a Potomac River island subjected to severe atmospheric pollution stress from automobile exhaust. A nearby island, Bear Island, more remote from traffic, was also studied for comparison. In addition, lichen samples were collected in Shenandoah National Park in western Virginia, and Aton Forest and other sites in Litchfield County, Connecticut. Present-day Pb concentrations in all species sampled from Plummers Island were found to be significantly higher than concentrations in the same species from Bear Island, highest values being obtained for Pseudoparmelia baltimorensis and Xanthoparmelia conspersa. These values are the highest yet found for foliose and fruticose lichen species subjected to atmospheric automobile exhaust pollution, although higher values have been reported for lichens from Pb mining areas. Significantly increased Pb concentration values were observed for lichens collected from Plummers Island between 1907 and 1958. During this interval, Plummers Island was remote from any specific Pb pollution source; therefore, the average "background" Pb pollution level appears to have also increased during this time. Cladina subtenuis was found to contain the lowest Pb concentrations in all sites, suggesting that lichen morphology influences particle trapping capacity and thus regulates the rate of Pb absorption by lichen tissues.
10.2307/3244403|The Rhachitheciaceae, a small family of tropical and subtropical mosses distributed among four genera (Hypnodontopsis, Jonesiobryum, Rhachithecium, and Tisserantiella), are currently placed in the Orthotrichales. Two additional genera are here transferred from the Orthotrichaceae to the Rhachitheciaceae, namely Octogonella (= Rhachithecium) and Uleastrum. Furthermore, the genus Rhachitheciopsis is reinstated, and anew genus Zanderia is proposed to accomodate U. octoblepharis. Rhachithecium welwitschii is tentatively considered distinct from R. perpusillum, whereas Uleastrum nitidum is reduced to synonymy with U. palmicola. A key to the 15 species of the Rhachitheciaceae is provided. The single peristome of the Rhachitheciaceae is shown to be an endostome. The architecture of the reduced peristome is reminescent of the Seligeriz-type peristome, and is seen as indicative of haplolepideous rather than diplolepideous affinities of the Rhachitheciaceae.
10.2307/3244020|Static demographic samples of the epiphyte community on oak branches in the Willamette Valley of western Oregon were examined to understand mechanisms of succession of the species. Branches up to 20 years old supported 28 macrolichens, five mosses, and four liverworts. One group of species colonized new growth immediately; other species, including cyanophilic lichens and pleurocarpous mosses, arrived over a longer period of time and increased in numbers and biomass with branch section age. Parmelia sulcata and Melanelia subaurifera responded positively to release from interspecific competition, Usnea spp. and Evernia prunastri were unaffected. The primary succession of epiphytes on oak branches is most influenced by the allogenic factors of microclimate change brought on by outward canopy growth. However, within the framework of allogenic factors, autogenic factors of competition and facilitation similar to those which cause secondary succession, do influence succession.
3244924|Gyalideopsis floridae, a lichenicolous lichen growing on Parmotrema in Florida (U.S.A.) is described as new. It is distinguished from all hitherto known species of the genus by multispored asci and simple ascospores.
10.2307/3242304|Morinia saitoana is described as a new species from material collected in Cofre de Perote, Veracruz, Mexico. With this addition, the genus consists of three species and two varieties, distributed from Mexico to northern South America.
10.2307/3240513|The chambered structure of the peristome teeth of Tetraplodon pennsylvanicus (Brid.) Sayre indicates a relationship of this species to the genus Splachnum which is further emphasized by the exserted columella, the peristome teeth fused in pairs, the ellipsoidal spores, and certain sporophytic similarities to S. ovatum Hedw. The species is transferred to Splachnum and given a detailed description and ecological and distributional summaries.
10.2307/3244056|The moss Didymodon anserinocapitatus, previously known only from eastern China, is reported from the foothills of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado and New Mexico.
10.2307/3241918|Parmotrema louisianae (Hale) Hale, Pseudoparmelia cryptochlorophaea (Hale) Hale, Xanthoparmelia psoromifera (Kurok.) Hale and X. weberi (Hale) Hale are reported for the first time from the state of Texas, and new localities are reported for Hypotrachyna pustulifera (Hale) Hale, Lobaria ravenelii (Tuck.) Yoshm. and Parmelia subpraesignis Nyl. A new combination, Xanthoparmelia nigropsoromifera (Nash) Egan, is made.
20110850|Bryophytes comprise the root from which the green plant Tree-of-Life developed. Molecular methods have been applied to a range of evolutionary problems in bryophytes including phylogenetic relationships among the major lineages, delimination of families and genera, infraspecific geographic patterns and speciation. This symposium encompasses molecular phylogenetic analyses at various levels of organization. Presentations include overviews of where we stand on resolving relationships within the three divisions: Bryophyta (mosses), Marchantiophyta (liverworts) and Anthocerophyta (hornworts). Other presentations address the evolution of development in early land plants, the use of characters describing gene and genome structure in phylogenetic analyses and infra-specific, geographically-correlated molecular variation in bryophytes.
10.2307/3242710| Twenty-nine taxa (27 species and 2 varieties) of the genus Entodon in China are discussed. One new species, Entodon acutifolius, is described. Seven new synonyms are proposed: Entodon delavayi Besch. and F. excavatus Broth. are treated as synonyms of E. macropodus (Hedw.) C. Mll.; E. nanocarpus is a synonym of E. compressus C. Mll.; E. longicostatus Buck is a synonym of E. sullivantii var. versicolor (Besch.) U. Miz.; E. stenopyxis Thr., E. mairei Thr. et Copp. and E. latifolius Broth. are the synonyms of E. prorepens (Mitt.) Jaeg.; E. zikaiwiensis Par. is reduced to a variety of E. compressus C. Mll. A key to subgenera and a key to species are provided, as well as detailed descriptions, illustrations and statements of distribution for each taxon. 
10.2307/3240948| Two hundred eighteen species of lichens are reported from Mt. McKinley Park, Alaska. Ten of these have not been reported previously for North America: Aspicilia disserpens (Zahlbr.) Rs., A. pelobotrya (Wahlenb.) Th. Fr., A. supertegens Arn., Caloplaca insularis Poelt, Gyalecta foveolaris (Ach.) Schaer., Lecidea elegantior Magn., Lobaria retigera (Bory) Trev., Micarea globularis (Nyl.) Hedl., Sagiolechia rhexoblephara (Nyl.) Zahlbr., and Staurothele clopimoides (Bagl. & Car.) Steiner. 
10.2307/3241755|Seven hepatics and three mosses are new to Arizona, including Zygodon viridissimus var. dentatus new to North America. The collections were made from 2,591-3,460 m in Apache Co. in east-central Arizona.
10.2307/3244467|This paper describes four new species of Caloplaca from the Sonoran Desert Region of Mexico and southwestern United States. Distributions and color illustrations are given for Caloplaca endodermia, C. lagunensis, C. pygmaea, and C. stipitata.
10.2307/3242946|Evidence is seen to favor a single evolution of the operculate condition in Bryophytes. Modern cleistocarpous types of capsules are considered, in agreement with most other authors, to be derived. The valvate capsule of Andreaea is also considered to have been derived from an operculate ancestor.
10.2307/3242162|Eighteen formulations of macronutrient media which have been used to culture bryophytes were compared with regard to their composition and concentrations of salts and ions. Particular emphasis was given to the form(s) in which nitrogen is provided by the media. Data are organized in a way which attempts to facilitate a choice of the fewest media which collectively would support "normal" development of a wide range of bryophytes.
10.2307/3241993|Polysaccharides (1,2-glycols), identified by a cytochemical stain at the ultrastructural level, were found in storage droplets of algal cells and cytoplasm of both the medullary hyphae and hyphae of the chondroid central cord of Usnea cavernosa Tuck. The intercellular matrix of the chondroid central cord contained no polysaccharides stainable with the method employed. High concentration of 1,2-glycol polysaccharides noted in the hyphal cytoplasm of the chondroid central cord may suggest a possible function of the cord as a storage tissue for a readily converted energy source.
20110967|The new genus Angiactis Aptroot & Sparrius is described, with three species, A. bermudensis LaGreca sp. nov. from Bermuda, A. littoralis (Kantvilas) Aptroot & Sparrius comb. nov. from Australia and A. spinicola Aptroot & Sparrius sp. nov. from the Galpagos. The new genus differs from Lecanographa in the presence of a thalline exciple, and from Llimonaea in the non-corticate thallus and presence of a thalline exciple.
10.2307/3242170|Calypogeia fissa (L.) Raddi and C. sullivantii Aust. are reported new to the bryoflora of Pennsylvania. Anthoceros crispulus (Mont.) Douin., Bazzania tricrenata (Wahl.) Trev. and Hyophila involuta (Hook.) Jaeg. & Sauerb. are reported for the second time. Seventy-three county records are also noted.
20110792|Water and pH are documented correlates of lichen and moss presence and dominance on rock surfaces, yet standard, defensible methods for their measurement are lacking. To address this deficiency we devised and tested methods for measuring absorption of liquid and atmospheric water, water retention and pH of rock surfaces. To adjust these measurements to cryptogam-relevant units we also developed an inexpensive method for determining rock surface area--by finding the increase in rock mass after applying a monolayer of homogenous sand grains with a known mass per unit surface area. We applied these techniques to compare volcanic (andesitic) and limestone rock surfaces from Yellowstone National Park, U.S.A. Andesitic rocks were less basic, absorbed more liquid and atmospheric water, and retained more water over time than limestone rocks.
10.2307/3242355|Crumia deciduidentata Sharp & Iwats., previously known only from the type locality on the Alaskan Peninsula and from the Glacier Bay area, Alaska, is reported new to the North American Arctic flora from King Christian Island in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago.
10.2307/3243880|Caloplaca luteominia (Tuck.) Zahlbr. and C. bolanderi (Tuck.) Magn. both have a western, marine-maritime distribution in North America. They are similar in most respects but differ from each other in the color of their apothecia and pycnidia, which in C. luteominia are orange and in C. bolanderi scarlet. Caloplaca luteominia and C. bolanderi are very closely related and can only be separated by the color of the apothecia and pycnidia, which is due to chemical differences. The new combination C. luteominia var. bolanderi (Tuck.) Arup is therefore suggested. Caloplaca laeta Magn. is a synonym of C. luteominia. Lectotypes for Placodium luteominium and Blastenia ferruginea fo. bolanderi are selected.
10.2307/3242665|Generic and species relationships were examined among ten taxa currently treated in the genus Weissia Hedw. from the southwestern United States. Morphological variation was quantified within and among taxa and related to chromosome number and behavior, anatomical features, and distributional patterns of each taxon. Morphological distinctions among W. controversa, W. andersoniana, W. condensa (=W. tortilis) andW. ligulaefolia are supported by differences in habitat and distributional patterns. Collections of W. jamaicensis from Texas are sterile and impoverished forms of the Caribbean species. Specimens of W. hedwigii from Texas contain immature or eroded sporophytes and are not assigned with certainty to that species. Taxa that do not demonstrate morphological and ecological discontinuities are synonymized with more widespread species, including W. andrewsii with W. controversa and W. sweetii and W. perligulata with Trichostomum crispulum. It is also evident that the generic limits of Weissia in North America should include both hymenostomous and astomous species.
10.2307/3242111| Pseudoscleropodium purum (Hedw.) Fleisch. is recorded from the islands of Runion and Sri Lanka (Ceylon). In the latter it is certainly, and in the former probably, a recent introduction. 
10.2307/3242031|A new lichen genus is described on the basis of material from the Palni Hills, India. It is characterized by a unique thallus structure, flush apothecia with simple hyaline spores and presence of alectoronic acid. It appears to belong in the family Lecideaceae.
10.2307/3242009| Campylopus benedictii Herz. and Campylopus longisubulatus Thr. are reported new to Mexico. Campylopus sharpii J.-P. Frahm, Horton & Vitt is described as new to science. 
