10.2307/2484573|Explants of unpollinated ovaries of Citrus aurantifolia and C. sinensis, but not of C. maxima, a monoembryonic species, produced embryoids and complete plants under certain cultural conditions. Subsequent experiments showed that ovary wall tissue was more prone to produce these responses. In long-term culture the responses gradually decreased resulting in complete cessation of embryoid formation, this cessation occurring earlier in C. aurantifolia than in C. sinensis. Explants of nucellus contained in longitudinal halves of ovules taken from in vivo-grown emasculated flower buds of C. aurantifolia produced three types of responses, namely, (a) an increasing mass of proliferating embryoids, (b) friable, spongy and pale-white tissue along with callusing integumentary tissue and (c) mixed responses of (a) and (b). The explants with continuously increasing mass of proliferating embryoids contained most of the stages of zygotic embryogenesis. Using different culture media, a good number of embryoids could be induced in explants of friable and spongy tissue of nucellar origin, but they did not develop into seedlings. No embryoids could be induced from callusing integumentary tissue regardless of medium employed.
10.2307/2484331|Coreopsis nuecensoides and C. nuecensis represent a progenitor-derivative species pair with the latter having evolved from the former via chromosomal repatterning. The two species are reproductively isolated as a result of chromosomal translocations but are exceedingly similar morphologically. Their leaf flavonoid chemistries differ in several significant respects. Coreopsis nuecensis exhibits 6-methoxyflavonoids (6-methoxyluteolin 7-0-glucoside and 6-methoxyquercetin 7-0-glucoside), which are lacking in C. nuecensoides. The latter species contains flavonols (quercetin 3-0-glucoside and 3-0-rutinoside) and the flavone apigenin 7-0-glucoside, all of which are lacking in C. nuecensis except for a flavonol in one population. The divergent leaf flavonoid chemistries are hypothesized to be due either to accumulated genetic differences in the flavonoid biosynthetic pathways after chromosomal restructuring or a regulatory change in flavonoid biosynthesis associated with chromosomal repatterning. It is possible that both factors may have been involved in providing the rather striking chemical differences.
10.2307/2482235|1. The type specimens of the species of Anthoceros created by J. F. C. Montagne are described. 2. The following additional observations were made: Anthoceros dissectus Mont. belongs to the Podostemaceae. Dendroceros endiviaefolius (Mont.) comb. nov. raises the problem of the generic differences between Megaceros Campb. and Dendroceros Nees, a matter which is briefly discussed The description of the sterile type material is augmented by an examination of fertile material collected by Dusen. The species is probably closely related to Dendroceros giganteus (Lehmann et Lindenberg) comb. nov. Dendroceros cichoraceus (Mont.) Steph. is very closely related to D. crispus (Sw.) Nees, and may even be a synonym of that species. Anthoceros fuciformis Mont from Reunion appears closely related to certain anomalous material from West Africa, which lacks stomata in the sporophyte.
10.2307/2996800|The carbon-nutrient hypothesis suggests that within a species, plants growing in high light and low nutrient conditions will commit greater resources to chemical defensive compounds compared to plants growing in low light and high nutrient environments. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated the patterns of leaf tannin chemistry in two species of oak (Quercus velutina L. and Q. prinus L.) utilizing protein precipitation methods. Leaves were sampled from mature, forest-grown, canopy trees found in a southeastern Ohio oak-hickory forest. To evaluate the effects of environment, we sampled along a natural gradient using trees from contrasting north- and south-facing slopes. To assess the patterns of variation in tannin abundance among populations, we sampled multiple trees from three different sites. Thus, data were analyzed for patterns of variation with respect to slope aspect and population. Quercus prinus trees growing on south-facing slopes had significantly greater amounts of leaf tannins than those on north-facing slopes but did not exhibit significant population differences in foliar tannin content. In contrast, Q. velutina trees on north- and south-facing slopes did not differ significantly in foliar tannin content but did exhibit significant population differences in foliar tannin content. Different species may have varying responses to the environmental stress associated with topography. Environment may have a considerable effect on leaf tannin content at the landscape scale. However, in some cases, populations may also contribute to variation and need to be considered when evaluating patterns of secondary plant metabolite distribution and/or plant-animal interactions.
10.2307/2484887|Individuals of Erigeron annuus were collected from adjacent old fields in various stages of ecological succession. The biotype of each individual was determined using gel electrophoresis and the zymogram technique. Starch gels were used for the separation of malic dehydrogenase, acid phosphatase and peroxidase isozymes; acrylamide gels were used for the separation of chlorogenic acid oxidase isozymes. Biotype frequencies were calculated for each of the field populations. Significant differences in biotype frequency were found among the populations, suggesting the species is made up of a complex of differentially adapted biotypes.
10.2307/2484281|Chromosome numbers are reported for 57 species of Vernonieae from North and South America and from Africa. The genera included are Bothriocline, Centratherum, Elephantopus, Erlangea, Ethulia, Gutenbergia, Muschleria, Triplotaxis, and Vernonia. With these additions, chromosome numbers are now known from 16 of the 70 genera of Vernonieae. On a worldwide basis, genera with x = 10 predominate with the second greatest number having x = 9. The Old World Vernonias are dibasic with x = 9, or 10, and have polyploids derived from either base number. Vernonia in the New World has a base number of x = 17 which is assumed to represent ancient polyploids derived by aneuploidy from a base of x = 9. Cytologically, this tribe has less known about it than any of the other tribes of the Compositae tribes and much remains to be done.
10.2307/2996284|An examination of the distribution of pignut hickory (Carya glabra (Mill.) Sweet, Juglandaceae) along a forest to forest edge transect (200 m x 40 m) in a southeastern Michigan forest revealed that few seedlings and saplings were located within the forest where adults were present but several were located on the forest edge. The goal of this study, after quantifying the hickory distribution along the transect, was to examine how factors affecting seed and seedling survival could explain seedling recruitment within the forest and forest edge. An experiment designed to compare post-dispersal survival of hickory nuts in different parts of the forest and forest edge indicated that more nuts buried on the edge survived than those buried within the forest. Germination experiments revealed that burial of nuts enhanced both germination and establishment of first year seedlings within the forest and that without burial, germination was nil in the forest edge. Using information on growth rates, frequency of stem damage by vertebrate herbivores (probably deer), and general size characteristics of the individuals present, it was found that seedlings located within transition and edge zones did better than seedlings within the forest. Comparison of size and age of saplings along the transect did not reveal any significant differences among vegetation zones. It is concluded that the information on overall seedling success supports the findings of other studies that pignut hickories do not reproduce well in an undisturbed forest. However, seedling dynamics alone do not seem sufficient to explain the paucity of seedlings within the forest. It is possible that predation by vertebrates contributed to their low abundance within the forest and, more importantly, that seed dispersal by squirrels enabled seedling success along the forest edge. If true, then mammals may not only play a role in seedling recruitment of forest tree species but also in successional dynamics of forests.
10.2307/2996858|Bull Island is a barrier island within Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge in Charleston county, South Carolina. Prior to Hurricane Hugo in September of 1989, the island's maritime forest contained healthy stands of old-growth, 70-160 year old loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.) that averaged 43.8 m
10.2307/2484713|The use of scanning electron microscopy has made possible a detailed study of foliar surface features such as vestiture, trichome types, and cuticular patterns. The species of Broussonetia, Morus, and Maclura native or naturalized in North America have been surveyed and descriptions are given for the vestiture, trichome complement, and cuticular pattern of each species using standard terminology. Illustrations are given for all species. The similarities to Cannabis sativa are indicated.
10.2307/2484376|The biomass and productivity of the herbaceous layer in distinct areas of a Chamaecyparis thyoides (L.) BSP (Atlantic white cedar) stand in the Great Dismal Swamp were estimated by sampling along three transects. The transects were located in cut-burned, uncut-burned, and control areas. The harvest method was used and productivity estimated by summing peak biomass of individual species. The cut-burned area had the highest productivity (3475 kg ha
10.2307/2997196|From 1964 to 1984, prescribed burning experiments were performed on oak (Quercus spp.) forest and oak savanna in east-central Minnesota, USA. Eighty-nine burns were carried out on 9 compartments ranging from 2.6 to 27.5 ha. Intervals between fires varied from 1 to 12 years. Soil pH increased significantly with frequency of burning. Total nitrogen was positively correlated (P < 0.01) with per cent organic matter. Species richness was highest in areas which were burned approximately every 2 years. Different plant functional groups responded differently to frequency of burning. Cover of true prairie grasses increased from less than 5 to about 15 per cent. True prairie forbs showed a significant increase in cover from less than 2 to about 8 per cent with increasing frequency of burning. Density of true prairie shrubs showed a tendency to increase whereas density of non-prairie shrubs and of trees showed tendencies to decrease with increased frequency of fire. Thus, the frequency of prescribed burning strongly influenced vegetative composition and physiognomy as well as soil characteristics.
10.2307/2997094|The tree species occurring on 25 islands of the Chippewa River in Wisconsin were censused. The islands range in size from 0.1 to 6.4 ha and contain from as few as 3 to as many as 14 species of trees. A linear relationship was found between the number of tree species and island area. The number of species was also related to elevation but not to age, substrate type, mode of origin, or distance to the nearest floodplain forest. The number of tree species on these islands is related to area but not to the degree of isolation and is greatly influenced by elevation because of periodic flooding.
10.2307/2484666|Winter biomass and nutrient contents were determined for five central New York wetlands. The sites dominated by Carex lacustris and C. rostrata were characterized by having a relatively large aboveground standing crop and a corresponding high nutrient content in those tissues. The sites dominated by Carex lanuginosa, Sparganium eurycarpum, and Typha glauca had small aboveground, but massive belowground, standing crops. Nutrient supply in these species was concentrated in belowground tissues. All species had large winter biomass values ranging from 610 g/m
10.2307/2481760|1. Artificially produced uni-, tri- and quadriradiate cells of some species of Micrasterias have been described. 2. The theory of plasmastructural units facilitates the understanding of the morphological similarities between diploid biradiate cells and haploid uniradiate cells as well as the similar features of the rays in the biradiate haploid and quadriradiate diploid cells. 3. In all instances increased nuclear influence per cytoplasmic axis corresponding to one ray results in "diploid features": in the diploid cell because the number of the rays has remained unaltered while the nuclear mass has increased and in the uniradiate cell because the number of the rays has decreased while the nucleus has remained unaltered. 4. On the other hand one characteristic depending on the relative nuclear effect is very significant: the number of plasmastructural units (number of the rays) and the nuclear mass per cell are correlated in a high degree. The increase in the number of plasmastructural units has resulted from a branching of the existing plasmastructural units at an early stage of the formation of these units. The nucleoplasmic ratio is preserved to a large degree and thus the number and the size of the rays compensate each other.
10.2307/2483839|Samples of micro-algae were collected from intertidal zones of beaches and mud-flats during the summer of 1964 for studies of the organisms and their organic productivity with the carbon 14 method. Dinoflagellates, euglenoids, blue-green algae, and diatoms were often abundant on the mud and sand of polluted estuaries. Euglenoids sometimes attained an abundance of one million per gram of mud, while diatoms reached 13 million, and bacteria 564 million per gram. Ciliated protozoa, copepods and nematodes were numerous in polluted mud flats. The highest number of nematodes was estimated at 70,000 per gram of mud. Chlorophyll a content of the algae communities varied greatly in different locations, ranging for blue-green algae up to 532 mg Chl a per kg of wet mud, for mixtures of flagellates and diatoms up to 542 mg/kg, and for diatom populations varying up to 427 mg/kg of crude wet material. Assimilation numbers at light saturation averaged 0.55 for blue-green algae, 1.75 for diatoms, and 1.83 for mixed populations of flagellates and diatoms. Calculated daily productivity (mg C/m
10.2307/2484228|Communities of eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr.) appear to be increasing in area at three sites in the Highlands of southeastern New York. Transects across ecotones in the Sterling Forest-Harriman Park region indicate advance of hemlock seedlings, saplings and mature growth. In some cases, hemlock saplings constitute upwards of 70% of seedlings and saplings and occupy a greater portion of ecotonal areas than do hardwoods. Mature hemlock growth dominates these transitional areas with importance values of 79 or greater. Invasion of broadleaf communities by hemlock apparently is being favored by the overall rise in precipitation levels over the past approximately 50 years. Once confined to steep-sloped ravines and northerly exposures, hemlock appears to be encroaching upon areas of modified relief as a result of more favorable microclimate. In addition to hemlock's ability to monopolize surface water supplies by virtue of its shallow, lateral rooting, other autecological features aid in facilitating a greater successional role for this conifer. These include hemlock's extreme light tolerance, its natural longevity and its ability to invade sites that reflect many different topographic and edaphic conditions.
10.2307/2995981|The vascular flora of granite outcrops in the Central Mineral Region of Texas includes 381 species in 255 genera and 88 families. Approximately 40% of the species belong to five families: Poaceae (56), Asteraceae (39), Cyperaceae (19), Fabaceae (18), and Polypodiaceae (15). Thirty-four families and 189 genera are represented by one species. The 23 species characteristic of granite outcrops display five distribution patterns: endemic, near-endemic, eastern, western, and wide-spread. A comparison of the granite outcrop floras of central Texas and the southeastern United States shows relatively few genera and species common to both regions; however, the life-form spectra are essentially identical. Drought-adapted therophytes and hemicryptophytes are dominant in both regions. This suggests that granite outcrops provide similar types of microenvironments despite major differences in the climate and surrounding vegetation of each region. The much higher proportion of endemics among the characteristic plants of granite outcrops in the Southeast (17) versus Texas (4) reflects a greater degree of geographical isolation and sharper discontinuity with the surrounding vegetation.
10.2307/2484106|The chromosome numbers of the two species of Byblis and their karyotypes are recorded, and compared here for the first time. The karyotype formulas for both species are as follows: Byblis gigantea Lindl.: K (2n = 14) = 2<sup>sat</sup> A<sup>ot</sup> + 2B<sup>sm</sup> + 2C<sup>m</sup> + 4D<sub>1</sub><sup>ot</sup> + 2D<sub>2</sub><sup>sm</sup> + 2E<sup>m</sup>; B. liniflora Salisb.: K (2n = 24) = 2A<sub>1</sub><sup>sm</sup> + 2<sup>sat</sup> A<sub>2</sub><sup>ot</sup> + 2B<sup>sm</sup> + 2<sup>sat</sup>C<sup>ot</sup> + 2D<sup>ot</sup> + 2E<sup>ot</sup> + 2F<sub>1</sub><sup>sm</sup> + 2<sup>sat</sup> F<sub>2</sub><sup>ot</sup> + 4G<sup>ot</sup> + 4H<sup>ot</sup>. Byblis is in an aneuploid series, and the basic chromosome numbers are X = 7 for B. gigantea and X = 12 for B. liniflora.
10.2307/2484589|Certain small bogs in morainic depressions in the Itasca Park area have acquired moats as the water table has risen since the drought conditions of the 1930's. The development of the moat appears to have been accompanied by a vigorous growth of sphagnum-heath bog in place of a sedge-dominated floating mat.
10.2307/2484377|Cytological studies of sporogenesis, gametogenesis and early embryology were undertaken to ascertain the status of the sexual reproductive potential in Texas Wildrice, an endangered endemic of the San Marcos River, Hays County, Texas. Megasporogenesis and megagametogenesis appear normal and conform closely to observations of other members of the genus. Microsporogenesis and microgametogenesis, pollination and early embryo development also appear regular. The present condition of the species is attributed to environmental rather than cytological factors.
10.2307/2483012|A soybean mutant, when crossed with a normal plant, gives rise to an F
10.2307/2482390|1. 1180 packets of the Parmelia conspersa-stenophylla lichen group from 892 localities in North America were examined for type of adnation, presence of apothecia, isidia, secondary laciniae, and pycnidia, and for chemical constituents. 2. Statistical analyses indicated significant association between adnate thalli and presence of isidia. Stictic acid was significantly associated with both adnate thalli and presence of isidia, salacinic with loose thalli. Apothecia, secondary laciniae, and pycnidia were not associated with any characters. 3. The basic morphological combinations were recognized as distinct species as follows, adnate-no isidia. P. conspersa (Ehrh.) Ach; adnate-with isidia: P. isidiata ( Anzi ) Gyel.; loose-no isidia: P. stenophylla (Ach.) Heug.; and loose-with isidia: P. isidiosa (Mull. Arg.) Hale, nov. comb. Each species exists as one to six chemical strains, most of which have definite geographical distributions.
10.2307/2482182|Briefly, the various points of interest concerning the ramifications of this plant are as follows: 1. Petiolar segments depart from the cauline stele at angles of approximately 120
10.2307/2996761|Spatial patterns of trees invading a tallgrass prairie in NE Kansas, USA were examined using a Geographical Information System. Without burning and with adequate moisture levels, the number of trees increased over a five year period by over 60%, while in an area burned annually the number of trees decreased. Under a variety of burning regimes Juniperus virginiana and Celtis occidentalis were significantly more uniform in their distribution pattern than Populus deltoides and Gleditsia triacanthos. In addition, three tree species (G. triacanthos, J. virginiana and U. americana) had a significant increase in the degree of aggregation with increasing tree height, while C. occidentalis showed no relationship between aggregation and tree height. There were significant associations between adult and juvenile trees at various scales, with bird dispersed J. virginiana having a higher critical distance (39 m) than winddispersed G. triacanthos and U. americana. The spatial pattern of tree species appears to be affected by the means of dispersion; trees with wind-dispersed seeds had clumped distributions, whereas most trees with bird-dispersed seeds were regular to random in their dispersion patterns, The spatial pattern of trees invading tallgrass prairie is a function of the burning regime, dispersal vectors, habitat availability and reproductive mode.
10.2307/2483718|During a two year period of study of the Coreopsis complex it was determined that a distinct population occurs on Stone Mountain in DeKalb County, Georgia. Characteristics exhibited by plants in this population are quite distinct from those found on the fifteen other outcrops sampled in four southeastern states. Coreopsis saxicola Alexander was observed only on Stone Mountain whereas C. grandiflora Hogg ex Sweet was abundant in the vicinity of all other outcrops visited.
10.2307/2484227|Equilibrium plant communities are established by uninterrupted successions over several centuries. However, these equilibrium communities are often relatively poorer in species than some non-equilibrium community that preceded them. This, coupled with the paucity of confirmed within-community niche differentiation, suggests that factors preventing the establishment of a competitive equilibrium are critical to the coexistence of plants. Disturbance occurs frequently enough in many systems to destroy or disadvantage the competitive dominants of late successional communities and so allow the coexistence of species with many degrees of competitive ability. Without disturbance the persistence of certain species is threatened. The concept of patch dynamics is used to generalize and emphasize non-equilibrium coexistence.
10.2307/2482083|1. The old question of the "primitive-or-specialized" status of the "Amentiferae" has been recently revived by the Swedish botanist, Hjelmqvist, who, in a long paper based solely on floral morphology (Hjelmqvist 1948), concludes that they are among the most primitive Angiosperms. 2. Attacking the problem from the point of view of wood anatomy, the writer selected at random 16 species of the recognized primitive order, Ranales, and 22 species of the long-debated group, Amentiferae, and examined their secondary xylem elements. 3. In a percentage comparison based largely on Tippo's criteria of structural evolution arrived at independently of any previously held idea that the Ranales or Amentiferae are primitive (Tippo 1938, 1946), the writer found the latter group to be decidedly more specialized than the former in all but three of 25 lines of specialization. Hence, from the point of view of the wood anatomy of the Amentiferae examined, there is very little to indicate that they are a primitive group. 4. The fibers of Clematis examined by the writer have distinctly bordered rather than simple pits as recorded by Metcalfe and Chalk (1950). 5. The perforation plates of Magnolia grandiflora have very narrow, complete borders, rather than no borders as recorded by Frost (1930a). Acknowledgments. The writer is especially indebted to Dr. Jennie L. S. Simpson of Hunter College who suggested this comparison and was very generous with her time and help; to Dr. Edmund W. Sinnott of Yale University who read the original manuscript and offered several helpful suggestions and criticisms; and to Dr. David D. Keck, Head Curator of The New York Botanical Garden, who went to great lengths to make specimens available at a time when, due to reorganization, they were very difficult to obtain. Other members of the New York Botanical Garden staff who were very kind in making material available were Dr. H. W. Rickett, Bibliographer; Mr. Thomas H. Everett, Horticulturist; Mr. E. J. Alexander, Curator; Mr. Louis P. Politi, Head Gardener; his very helpful secretary, Miss Bride McSweeney; Mr. Patrick Connolly, Greenhouse Foreman; and especially the ever-patient and untiring Miss Elizabeth C. Hall, Librarian. The writer also wishes to thank Dr. Harold H. Clum, Chairman of the Department of Biological Sciences at Hunter College, for his kind assistance; and Dr. Louis H. Teichman, Chairman of the Science Department of George Washington High School in Manhattan, for his interest and many helpful suggestions.
10.2307/2996832|Spatial patterns of fire temperatures from a tallgrass prairie and adjacent Gallery forest in northeast Kansas and a sandhill community in central Florida were recorded using temperature-sensitive pyrometers. The objectives of the study were to determine, in both habitats, the range of temperatures reached during prescribed burning under a range of different conditions. Both habitats are characterized by frequent, low-intensity fires confined to the herbaceous vegetation and low shrubs. In tallgrass prairie, fire temperature maxima ranged from 19 to 399
10.2307/2483792|Techniques of systematic serology have been used to analyse protein similarities among taxa of the genus Viburnum. Nephelometric and double diffusion analyses indicate that serological correspondence can be correlated with the sections of the genus derived from analyses of gross morphological characters. Each section of the genus reacted as a serological unit, with representatives of the most primitive section showing least serological correspondence with those of the most advanced section. A wide range of serological reactivity was observed among the species examined suggesting the possibility of raising the sections to a taxonomic level above section. However, all taxa were included in a distinct serological group indicating that Viburnum is a distinct taxon.
10.2307/2482752|Studies were made on the carbon and nitrogen nutrition of the two species of Radiomyces (Mucorales, Phycomycetes). Glucose, fructose and mannose supported growth but galactose did not. Trehalose was the only disaccharide utilized; no growth occurred on maltose, cellobiose, sucrose and lactose. Ammonium sulfate, asparagine and casein-hydrolysate were all used as nitrogen sources but KNO
10.2307/2483181|A new Sclerospora species, Sclerospora westonii sp. nov., is described growing on the leaves of Iseilema laxum in low-flying, water-stagnant areas near Poona, India.
10.2307/2483364|Putative hybrids between Sphenopholis obtusata and Trisetum pensylvanicum were found growing with the presumed parental species at three localities in northeastern North Carolina. They were intergradient in gross morphological characteristics between the parents. Analysis of local population samples (mass collections) by pictorialized scatter diagrams and evidence about chromosome number, pollen stainability, and female fertility in artificial crosses further corroborated our belief that hybridization had occurred. Chromosome numbers in all taxa were 2n = 14; this is the first report on chromosome number in Trisetum pensylvanicum. The two parental species had 0 to 38% self-fertility. Satisfactory meiotic pairing in hybrids indicated a close relationship between the two parental species. The nomenclatural application of the name, Sphenopholis pallens (Muhl. ex Bieler) Scribner is discussed. This name has in the past been used to refer to hybrids of any of the species of Sphenopholis with Trisetum pensylvanicum.
10.2307/2482088|1. The bald-cypress and pond-cypress cannot be distinguished from one another on the basis of microstructural features of their woods. 2. The similarity of the woods of these two forms further supports the view that the pond-cypress is a variation of the bald-cypress. 3. The wood of the Mexican or Montezuma cypress can be separated from the other two cypresses on the basis of its comparatively thinner horizontal walls of ray parenchyma cells.
10.2307/2996285|Five species of pines native to Pennsylvania occur in the 247 ha Meeting of the Pines Natural Area located in southcentral Pennsylvania. The pines are found mostly as single trees or in small clumps. Recognizable stands of table mountain pine (Pinus pungens) and pitch pine (Pinus rigida) appear along a steep, rocky upper slope. Except for this narrow fringe of pine, the area is predominantly oak, chestnut oak (Quercus prinus) being most numerous. The present overstory forest is the result of nearly 2 centuries of human activity and natural responses, which are described. Studies conducted in the summer of 1980 document the present forest composition for overstory, understory, and seedling stages of arborescent species. The 1980 data show a substantial decline in the number and vigor of pines. This, combined with the lack of pine regeneration, indicates an uncertain future for the Meeting of the Pines Natural Area as a showplace for the pines of Pennsylvania.
10.2307/2482754|Cyclostachya (Tribe Chlorideae), a monotypic genus of dioecious grasses from central Mexico, is described as new. It is based on Bouteloua stolonifera Seribn., which had been known only from pistillate material. The staminate plants are here described for the first time. In addition to its dicliny, the new genus may be distinguished from Bouteloua by the hyaline ligule. Comparison is made with the related diclinous and stoloniferous genera Opizia, Buchloe, Pringleochloa, and Fourniera. A key is included
10.2307/2484540|The purpose of the study was to investigate the possibility that allelopathic and autotoxic phenomena influence the results of competitive interactions between Convolvulus sepium and associated species on the Piedmont of New Jersey. Field observations and greenhouse experiments were performed on the effects of soil from patches of C. sepium on germination and growth and the effects of leachate of this species on growth. Past reports and field observations indicated that (1) certain species growing in areas inhabited by C sepium appear inhibited even during its dormant period and even after hand-weeding removes it as a competitor, and (2) when initially dominant, the species often declines in importance during the early stages of old field succession. Allelopathic effects of C. sepium varied with the species tested. Amaranthus retroflexus, Chenopodium album, Digitaria sanguinalis, and Triticum aestivum were significantly inhibited at all stages of development investigated. Portulaca oleracea was inhibited only during germination and seedling development. Autotoxicity was statistically significant in all controlled environment studies. The interaction of such allelopathic and autotoxic effects in the early stages of secondary succession is discussed.
10.2307/2483857|Chromosome numbers of 14 of the 24 recognized species of Cienfuegosia Cav. are reported, six of which are new. Numbers are also reported for four of the 17 recognized taxa of Hampea Schlecht., three of which are new. Chromosome-number data support the previous separation of the species of Cienfuegosia into two alliances, subgenus Articulata, of Afro-Arabian distribution, with n = 11, and subgenus Cienfuegosia, of largely American distribution, with n = 10. Chiasma frequencies in Cienfuegosia vary from 1.35 to 1.90 per bivalent. Chromosomes in Cienfuegosia fall in about the same size range as those of three species of Gossypium L. drawn for comparative purposes (representatives of the A, C, and D genomes, with large, intermediate, and small chromosomes, respectively). Some plants of one species, Cienfuegosia rosei Fryx., show attenuated bivalents, conspicuous cytological irregularities, and pollen sterility. Analysis of F
