10.2307/3668405|The taxonomy of the Justicia mollugo group, mainly distributed in south tropical Africa, is revised. The species recognized are: J. baumii S. Moore, J. richardsiae sp. nov., J. mariae sp. nov., J. mendoncae Benoist, J. mollugo S. Moore, J. boaleri sp. nov., J. syncollotheca Milne-Redh., J. obtusicapsula sp. nov. and J. amanda sp. nov. The revision is based on morphological data. Drawings of all treated taxa are provided, as well as distribution maps and a key.
10.2307/3668341|Descriptions or diagnoses are provided for new taxa of Central African Russulae: 1 new section, 24 new subsections, 29 new species, 10 new varieties and 1 new form are described; Russula atroviridis nom. nov. is proposed. The descriptions of the different taxa are systematically arranged following Buyck (1989b).
10.2307/3667871|On the base of a rich material collected by the junior author in Kerala, a general survey is given of the genus Hymenagaricus of which the south of India represents probably a dispersal center. The key contains the 18 species known by the authors. The 16 descriptions concern the species collected in Kerala as well as some old collections from Sri Lanka. Hymenagaricus cylindrocystis, H. viridulus, H. calicutensis, H. globisporus, H. subepipastus, H. gracilis, H. luteolosporus, H. chrysosporus, H. rubescens and H. erinaceus are new to Science. H. subaeruginosus, H. epipastus, H. myriostictus and H. flavidorufus are new combinations. The genus is divided into 2 subgenera of which Xanthagaricus subgen. nov.
10.2307/3668145| During two expeditions in 1968, to the Lake Chad and in the Libyan Desert, J. Lonard (BR) has collected an abundant material, essentially constituted by higher plants and containing a small number of fungi. These last specimens are here described. They belong to the following species: Podaxis pistillaris, Tulostoma caespitosum, Schizostoma laceratum s. lat. and Sporisorium modestum (Sydow) H. Scholz comb. nov. The specimen of S. laceratum presents some remarkable characters, a.o. very large size. Those species have not yet been recorded in the countries in which the here described specimens have been collected. 
10.2307/3667648|Revision of the genus Anigozanthos (Haemodoraceae of Australia). -- Description and new diagnosis of the sections and species of this very nice genus, called " Kangaroo paw " by the natives and selected as the State emblem of Western Australia in 1960.
10.2307/3667744|Vernonia kwangolana Duvign. & Hotyat, described from Zaire, is synonymous with V. bullulata S. Moore.
10.2307/3668288|A detailed morphological-anatomical account of the ovary structure and placentation in the tribe Pauridiantheae is given using a bicarpellate taxon, Pauridiantha paucinervis subsp. lyallii, and a tetracarpellate species, Stelechantha ziamaeana, as examples. The presence of false septa (in addition to "true" septa) is characteristic for the entire tribe. They represent inward projections produced by the ovary wall which are only developed in the upper half of an ovary (thus seemingly doubling the number of locules present). The false septa are in contact with the "true" septum (or septa) only in the uppermost part of the ovary; lower down they gradually retreat and, from around mid-ovary, they are no longer discernible. The placentas, on which always many to very many ovules are borne, differ between bi- and more-carpellate taxa of the Pauridiantheae in their size, shape and orientation. It is noted that in the tetracarpellate Stelechantha ziamaeana the placentation is apparently quite similar to that described for the Urophylleae in that each locule has two placenta arms which are at least in part attached to the septa. In bicarpellate Pauridiantha, the placenta is a peltate, more or less heart-shaped structure.
10.2307/3667784|A new monospecific genus of SW Asiatic Cruciferae is described, Petiniotia, based on Sterigmostemum purpurascens (Boiss.) Kuntze from Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
10.2307/3667820| Les quelques vestiges des anciens prs de fauche  Colchicum autumnale ont t minutieusement relevs dans la rgion du plateau des Tailles (Haute Ardenne Belge). L'analyse phyto-cologique permet d'y reconnatre deux associations, l'Alchemillo-Trisetetum ressortissant au Triseto-Polygonion et le Crepido-Juncetum dpendant du Calthion. Au sein du premier ensemble, trois variantes se distinguent par leur charge respective en espces msotrophes et xroneutroclines; cette dcoupe est confirme par l'examen des principales conditions stationnelles. Celles-ci montrent encore que plusieurs prairies  colchique n'ont jamais connu l'irrigation; elles se dveloppent sur des alluvions mouilleuses assez peu fertiles. Ces observations apportent quelques prcisions  l'auto-cologie de Colchicum autumnale. 
10.2307/3667985| Les boutures ligneuses dsinfectes sont susceptibles, aprs enracinement, de convenir  la formation de mycorrhizes de synthse. Cette technique a permis de raliser des synthses mycorrhiziennes entre Salix repens et Paxillus involutus et entre S. repens et Pisolithus arhizus. /// Desinfected cuttings of woody plants are suitable for the synthesis of mycorrhizae. This method was applied to the successful formation of mycorrhizae by Paxillus involutus and Pisolithus arhizus on Salix repens. 
10.2307/3668402|The vegetation (woody flora, ferns and orchids) of the forests of Mt Mulanje (Malawi, south-central Africa) is studied along an altitudinal gradient (650-1950 m) from the southern and southeastern slopes to the high plateau of Lichenya. Chorological analysis of the trees and shrubs constituting the different forest types supports recognition of three forest categories: the proportion of Afromontane elements increases from 22% in lowland forest (650-950 m) to 44% in mid-altitude forest (900-1350 m in gorges and middle slopes) and to 76% in Afromontane forest (1600-1950 m on upper slopes and plateaux). The main lowland elements consist of Guineo-Congolian linking species.
10.2307/3667654|Genera of Haemodoraceae and Hypoxidaceae. -- Description and new diagnosis of all the genera to be maintained in the families Haemodoraceae and Hypoxidaceae; the Haemodoraceae are divided into two tribes, Haemodoreae with 10 genera and Conostylideae with 3 genera; the Hypoxidaceae contain 6 genera.
10.2307/3668377| Magnistipula devriesii, en provenance du Gabon, est dcrite comme espce nouvelle dans les Chrysobalanaceae. 
10.2307/3668011| Les pidermes foliaires diffrencis de nombreux Selaginella, observs en microscopie lectronique  balayage, rvlent la prsence de verrues silicifies dont la forme et la rpartition peuvent varier suivant les espces. Ces nouveaux caractres,  ct de ceux traditionnellement utiliss, peuvent tre retenus dans une tude systmatique des Selaginella. /// Mature leaves of most species of Selaginella show minute siliceous warts on both side of the lamina. These warts are specially conspicuous in scanning electron microscopy. The form and distribution of the epidermal warts vary from species to species and such features may be useful, besides the standard criteria, to improve or refine the systematic discrimination between species. 
10.2307/3668108|A computerized method is described to digitize quickly moss leaf shapes, to compute the statistical parameters and to provide a global shape identification; the method does not necessitate a computer (a graduated rule and a pencil will suffice, but at a lower input rate). A versatile slope code provides a simple, printable and self-explanatory means to display a symbolic picture of the leaf shape. This slope code is used to define analytically the traditional shape terminology; the slope code allows a coherent succession of leaf shapes to be built up, presented in the Systematic Association's chart format. This slope code easily describes more subtle variations (shown in a complementary chart). An actual test is performed on African Sematophyllaceae.
10.2307/3667656| L'tude des particularits morphologiques (y compris l'anatomie foliaire et l'histologie des pidermes), cologiques et chorologiques de Festuca duvalii (Saint-Yves) Stohr rvle des diffrences qui ncessitent la sparation de ce taxon d'avec F. cinerea Vill. var. trachyphylla (Hack.) Stohr, contrairement au regroupement prconis par certains travaux rcents. La variabilit infraspcifique de l'espce est tudie; les taxons suivants sont distingus: var. duvalii, comprenant les f. duvalii et hispidula Auquier f. nov., et var. multinervis Stohr, avec les f. multinervis et barbulata Auquier f. nov. La rpartition et l'habitat de F. duvalii sont prciss pour la Belgique. 
10.2307/3668436| Crepidorhopalon robynsii et C. tanzanicus sont dcrits comme espces nouvelles. C. robynsii est proche de C. malaissei, mais se distingue par l'indument du calice, le tube de la corolle et les tamines plus longues. C. tanzanicus est proche du C. spicatus, mais se distingue par l'inflorescence dense. Les combinaisons nouvelles C. rupestris et C. parviflorus sont proposes. 
10.2307/3667740| Description d'une trentime espce du sous-genre Empogona (genre Tricalysia): T. breteleri du Gabon; adaptation de la cl des espces. Publication de Macrocarpus, sous-genre nouveau de Sericanthe, avec deux espces: Sericanthe auriculata du Cameroun et S. adamii du Liberia. A l'occasion de la description d'une nouvelle espce,  savoir Batopedina pulvinellata, les diffrences entre Batopedina Verdc. et Parapentas Bremek., deux genres satellites de Pentas Benth., sont discutes. La nouvelle espce est connue de cinq localits au Shaba mridional (Zare); elle a t observe sur des affleurements de roches siliceuses cellulaires et est considre comme une des espces caractristiques du Mohrio-Batopedinetum pulvinellati, une nouvelle association. La nouvelle espce montre frquemment une particularit inhabituelle chez les Rubiaceae,  savoir la prsence, aux nuds successifs, de feuilles solitaires en alternance avec des feuilles opposes. En relation avec la distribution propre  Batopedina et  Parapentas, un relev est fait de toutes les stations connues des six espces de ces deux genres. 
10.2307/3668409| Racomitrium levieri Kindb. and R. dixonii A. Mach., two neglected moss species from Portugal, are considered synonymous with R. lamprocarpum (C. Muell.) Jaeg. Likewise, R. nigro-viride (C. Muell.) Par., R. nigro-viride var. robusticola (C. Muell.) Par. and R. pseudo-aciculare (C. Muell.) Par. from South Africa, R. defoliatum Dix. from East Africa and R. subnigritum (C. Muell.) Par. var. alvarezianum Card. from Gough Island are taxonomically inseparable from R. lamprocarpum. Accordingly, these discoveries have further extended the known range of this species which has hitherto been known only from southern South America including the Falkland Islands, Juan Fernandez Islands and Tierra del Fuego. R. lamprocarpum is fully described and illustrated and its ecology and phytogeography are considered in detail including distribution maps for the total range and Europe. Taxonomically, the species is closely related to R. ellipticum (Turn.) B., S. & G. from Europe and R. bartramii (Roiv.) Robins. from Tierra del Fuego and the differences between them are discussed at length. A separate section within Racomitrium, Ellipticodrytodon (Vilh.) Ochyra, Srgio & R. Schumacker, is established to accomodate these species and a key is given for their separation. The genus Dryptodon Brid. is lectotypified with D. patens (Dicks. ex Hedw.) Brid. and Racomitrium Brid. subgen. Campylodryptodon Schimp. is placed in synonymy with Dryptodon. 
10.2307/3668224|Six new species are described and one new combination is recognized in the genus Gladiolus L. (African Iridaceae).
10.2307/3668034|The authors report the existence of a cratershape disposition of the epidermal cells surrounding the stomata for two genera of the Thymelaeaceae family: Craterosiphon and Synaptolepis. This therefore constitutes an anatomical-taxonomic character; the third genus belonging to the subtribe Dicranolepidinae, namely Dicranolepis, lacks this characteristic.
10.2307/3668393| Description d'une espce nouvelle d'Hypoxidaceae, H. bampsiana, d'Afrique centrale. 
10.2307/3667692| This paper concerns the algae collected by J. Lonard in the Sahara and in the lake Chad area during the 1964-1965 Belgian trans-Saharan Expedition. The ecology and the algal flora of 30 samples from 15 Saharan localities and 13 samples from 7 localities from the lake Chad area are described. The algal flora of the Saharan collections amounts to 237 taxa, mainly Diatoms (146 taxa or 62%) and blue-green algae (60 taxa or 25%), whereas the algal flora of the collections from the lake Chad area includes 444 taxa, mainly Desmids (184 taxa or 41%) and Diatoms (142 taxa or 32%). The systematic list of the algae found in these collections includes 576 taxa, 30 of which are described as new. For each alga, a short description and the nummer of the samples in which it has been found is given. 
10.2307/3668155|The monospecific Lepidobotryaceae are provided with voluminous receptacular discs, which are intrastaminally flat and disciformous, but protuberant between the filament bases. These are similar in the staminate and the carpellate flowers. The glandular tissue, including epidermis and far extended parenchyma, is completely unvascularized, but associated with the close sepal and/or carpel(odia) traces. In its epidermis, stomata are widely distributed. Flowers are bowl-shaped, exposing their nectar without protection. The pollination system is therefore considered to be allotropous. Flies appear to be the most important pollinators. The systematic position of the family is still under discussion. Concerning nectaries, similarities with those of the presumed closely related Oxalidaceae and Linaceae are wanting. The isolated status of this taxon should be emphasized by means of its family rank.
10.2307/3668035|Two new species from Zaire, Selaginella vanderystii and S. kivuensis, are described. They belong to the group of S. suberosa of Hieronymus which is to be referred to the subgenus Stachygynandrum (Beauv.) Bak. s.l. The former is allied to S. tenerrima A. Br. ex Kuhn, the latter to S. thomensis Alston.
10.2307/3667796| Dnombrements chromosomiques relatifs  87 taxons recueillis au Rwanda, au Burundi et occasionnellement au Kenya, parmi lesquels 34 non tudis antrieurement  ce point de vue. Brve discussion de ces donnes et vocation de l'incidence taxonomique possible de certains rsultats, notamment: existence de deux cytotypes chez Pluchea bequaertii Robyns, nombre chromosomique de Chenopodium ugandae (Aell.) Aell. confirmant la distinction de ce taxon par rapport  C. opulifolium Schrad. ex Koch & Ziz, caractre ttraplode d'Indigofera secundiflora Poir. var. rubropilosa De Wild. (alors que la var. secundiflora serait diplode), etc. /// Chromosome counts are given for 87 taxa collected in Rwanda, Burundi and occasionally Kenya, 34 of which not previously reported. Short discussion of the data and of the possible taxonomical implication of some results: occurrence of two cytotypes in Pluchea bequaertii Robyns, chromosome count of Chenopodium ugandae (Aell.) Aell. confirming the distinction of this taxon in respect to C. opulifolium Schrad. ex Koch & Ziz, occurrence of two chromosome numbers in Indigofera secundiflora Poir. (the diploid and tetraploid probably assignable respectively to var. secundiflora and var. rubropilosa De Wild.), etc. 
10.2307/3668301| Scanning electron microscope observations of the tegumental micromorphology on seeds of Phaseolus vulgaris L., P. filiformis Benth. and the allotetraploid hybrid P. vulgaris  P. filiformis showed two distinct types for the parental species, while the tetraploid hybrid combined characters from both parents. 
10.2307/3668150|Four freshwater dinoflagellates, Ceratium cornutum, Peridinium baliense, P. gutwinskii and P. willei, were studied by light and scanning electron microscopy. For each taxon a description is given together with SEM micrographs and data on its ecology and distribution. All these taxa are new records for the algal flora of Papua New Guinea.
10.2307/3667418|Comatricha anomala, a new myxomycete species is decribed. It differs from all other Comatricha species by a unique spore wall ornamentation consisting of bacula alternating with a few patches of a reticulum simplex.
10.2307/3668059| The types of Onygena mutata Qulet and Amauroascus verrucosus (Eidam) Schroeter have been studied. Both represent the same species; hence the new combination Amauroascus mutatus (Qulet) Rammeloo is proposed. Special attention is paid to the spore morphology as observed with the scanning electron microscope. 
10.2307/3667817|The 7 letters (1867-1869) from J.-E. Bommer (1829-1895) to S.-R. Lenormand (1796-1871) give evidence of the part taken by J.-E. Bommer in the enrichment of the herbarium collections now kept at the National Botanical Garden of Belgium (BR). Especially, they explain how some ferns collected in New Caledonia by Vieillard were added to the collections.
10.2307/3667589| In connection with a study of mosses, gathered by the author in Zare, Rwanda and La Runion, eleven species, belonging to six genera, are critically named and illustrated. 
10.2307/3668386|A taxonomic treatment of Papua New Guinean species of Xylariaceae is presented. Sixty-four species in seven genera are described and illustrated. A synoptic key allows the identification of the species treated. The majority of species have a pantropical distribution; the next largest number of species has a paleotropical distribution; very few have a cosmopolitan distribution.
10.2307/3667961| A swamp forest association with Mitragyna stipulosa and Pycnanthus marchalianus is studied in the Kisangani region by means of the Zrich-Montpellier phytosociological method. A detailed analysis of its floristic composition is given, as well as its biological, phytogeographical and diaspore spectra. The main edaphological data are also given. From a syngenetic point of view, this forest represents the final stage of the hydrosere in the Central Congo basin. 
10.2307/3667615| Trichia arundinariae Rammeloo sp. nov. is described. The species is most resembling T. floriformis (Schw.) List. Scanning electron micrographs of spores and capillitium are presented. The spores show a very striking ornamentation, which is, up to now, unique in the Myxomycetes. /// Trichia arundinariae Rammeloo sp. nov. est dcrit. L'espce ressemble le plus au T. floriformis (Schw.) List. Des photos de spores et de capillitium prises  l'aide du microscope lectronique  balayage sont prsentes. Les spores montrent une ornementation remarquable, qui, jusqu'ici, est tout  fait unique dans les Myxomyctes. 
10.2307/3668200| Because of the recent rejection of the proposal to conserve the generic name Torularia (Cosson) O. Schulz, antedated by the algal Torularia Bonnemaison, the new generic name Neotorularia is proposed; twelve new combinations are made. The relevant studies on Malcolmia R. Br. s.l. by F. Dvok and A. Stork are discussed. 
10.2307/3668245| Le genre Peddiea (Thymelaeaceae) est reprsent au Gabon par la mme espce qu'au Cameroun, c'est--dire P. fischeri. Pourtant l'tude de cette espce  grande rpartition en Afrique continentale a montr que P. fischeri est un synonyme de l'espce type du genre P. africana. Aussi P. parviflora de la Guine Equatoriale et P. thomensis de So Tom sont mis en synonymie de cette espce. 
10.2307/3667986| Une discussion dtaille de la variabilit et de la position taxonomique des ftuques calaminaires du groupe de Festuca ovina L. croissant dans l'est de la province de Lige (Belgique) et dans les rgions limitrophes conduit  distinguer au niveau spcifique ces plantes ttraplodes du F. ovina s. str., diplode. Elles sont dcrites comme une sous-espce nouvelle, subsp. calaminaria Auquier, de F. ophioliticola Kergulen, dont le concept est  ce propos largement tendu, puisque 4 sous-espces sont reconnues,  savoir, outre la prcdente: subsp. ophioliticola, subsp. hirtula (Hack. ex Travis) Auquier comb. nov., dont la position taxonomique est reconsidre, et subsp. armoricana (Kergulen) Auquier comb. nov. Une cl permettant la distinction de ces taxons est propose. /// A detailed discussion of the variability and taxonomic position of fescues from calamine-bearing soils of the Festuca ovina L. group appearing in the eastern part of the province of Lige (Belgium) and in adjacent regions leads to distinguish at the specific level those tetraploid plants from the diploid F. ovina s. str. They are described as a new subspecies, subsp. calaminaria Auquier, of F. ophioliticola Kergulen. The concept of this species is at the same time considerably enlarged, three additional subspecies being recognized: subsp. ophioliticola, subsp. hirtula (Hack. ex Travis) Auquier comb. nov. of which the taxonomic position is reconsidered and subsp. armoricana (Kergulen) Auquier comb. nov. A key for the distinction of those taxa is proposed. 
10.2307/3667756| From September 1968 to January 1969, 44 algae and plankton samples were collected from 10 localities in E Libya and N W Sudan by J. Lonard, botanist of a scientific Belgian expedition to the Libyan desert. About 312 species and infraspecific taxa were observed in these samples, among which the diatoms are the more numerous (43%) whereas the blue-green algae amount to 27% and the green algae to 23% of the algal flora. New combinations are proposed in the genera Leibleinia (Cyanophyceae) and Brachysira (Diatomophyceae). 
10.2307/3667735| A study of the genus Plagiochila (Dum.) Dum. (Hepaticae) at Madagascar and at the Mascarene Islands (Runion and Mauritius), based on the collections of M. Onraedt. Description of 19 spp. and 5 var. Diagnosis of a new taxon: P. terebrans Lindenb. f. obsoleta Vanden Berghen. Five new combinations: P. repanda (Schwaegr.) Lindenb. var. perrotana (Steph.) Vanden Berghen, P. barteri Mitt. var. valida (Steph.) Vanden Berghen, P. squamulosa Mitt. var. cripulo-caudata (Gottsche) Vanden Berghen and var. sinuata (Mitt.) Vanden Berghen, P. divergens Steph. var. sparsa (Steph.) Vanden Berghen. An identification key. Index. 
10.2307/3668282|A survey of the Agariceae in Brasil and adjacent countries between the Tropic of Capricorne and the North of South America, including the Lesser Antilles, brings to an end the series of Agarici Austroamericani. Are signalized 92 taxa some of which are fully described from local collections. Agaricus meijeri (p. 368) is a new species. A general index (p. 379) recapitulates all the taxa treated in the series (over 200 names).
10.2307/3668433|Species of the Araceae family occurring in Upper-Katanga (Democratic Republic of Congo) are reviewed. Keys are provided, using either vegetative characters or characters from the inflorescence. Each species is described and geographic distribution in the area is mapped.
10.2307/3667675| Callose deposits, later silicified, have been identified under fluorescent microscopy in the epidermis of young leaves of several species of Selaginella. The shape and distribution of these deposits can be very useful in the determination of the species. /// Des dpts callosiques, ultrieurement silicifis, sont identifis en fluorescence au niveau de l'piderme des jeunes feuilles pour plusieurs espces de Selaginella. La forme et la rpartition de ces dpts peuvent servir utilement dans la dtermination des espces. 
10.2307/3667729|Description of five new species, Cosmarium gerdae, Cosmarium lamyfortanum, Cosmarium murielae, Staurastrum iltisii and Staurastrum thomassonianum, and of twelve forms or varieties of Desmids from lake Chad and surrounding areas together with some new combinations and names and observations on the nomenclature of some Desmids from the same area.
10.2307/3668133|Two new species of Gonocaryum Miq. (Icacinaceae) are described from Indochina.
10.2307/3668347|The pteridophyte floras of Southern and two East African regions are compared and are found to be strongly related with regard to families, genera and species. The total number of mutual species in the three areas varies between 45% and 70%. However the tendency to endemism in the isolated tropical mountain complexes causes the percentages of mutual species in these regions to be relatively low. Emphasis is placed on the relationship between altitude and number of species in the areas. The greatest number of species in Southern Africa lies in the 1000 - 1500 m range and in East Africa in the 1500 - 2000 m range. A breakup of species into those with large altitude and thermal tolerances (eurythermal) and four more restricted stages (megathermal, mesothermal, oligothermal and microthermal) is attempted. The critical altitudinal threshold values for the groups are established, following Lebrun (1960). These are correlated with the vegetational zones of Hedberg (1951) and White (1983). Species which reach up to or beyond the thresshold values of the oligothermal and microthermal groups are listed and the ecology of specially characteristic high-altitude species is discussed.
10.2307/3668270| Examen de la diversit gntique de Vigna marina (Burm.) Merrill, lgumineuse pouvant servir comme plante de couverture, comme engrais vert et comme plante de fixation des dunes; deux sous-espces sont distingues: subsp. marina et subsp. oblonga (Benth.) Padulosi; leur description et leur rpartition gographique sont donnes. 
10.2307/3667578| Pentabrachion Mll. Arg. (Euphorbiaceae), new for the Democratic Republic of Congo. -- The monospecific genus Pentabrachion, previously known from the Cameroons and Gabon has been discovered in the Democratic Republic of Congo. 
10.2307/3668163| L'Herbier du Centre ORSTOM de Cayenne (CAY) est entirement informatis. Il comprend 50 000 spcimens rpartis en 4 300 espces. Les informations ont t stockes dans une Banque de Donnes appele "AUBLET". Celle-ci peut tre interroge sur la taxonomie, les chantillons, les collecteurs, les localits de collecte ainsi que la localisation des parts dans les diffrents herbiers. /// The Herbarium of ORSTOM Centre of Cayenne (CAY) is fully computerized. It numbers 50 000 specimens distributed in 4 300 species. The informations have been stored in a Data Bank called "AUBLET". The latter can be consulted on taxonomy, specimens, collectors, localities of collecting as also location of specimens in the different herbaria. 
10.2307/3667803| Lagarosiphon Harvey (Hydrocharitaceae) is a genus of aquatic plants comprising 9 species, distributed in tropical Africa, including Madagascar. The authors give a taxonomic revision of the genus, with full descriptions, survey of diagnostic features, key to species, synonyms with typification, distribution, maps and illustrations, also including information on vegetative morphology, biology and reproduction, ecology and introductions. New diagnostic characteristics based on leaf structures are used at species level. /// Lagarosiphon Harvey (Hydrocharitaceae) est un genre de plantes aquatiques comportant 9 espces rparties en Afrique tropicale, y compris Madagascar. Les auteurs donnent une revision taxonomique du genre, avec descriptions compltes, aperu des caractres diagnostiques, cl des espces, synonymie et typification, distribution gographique, accompagne de cartes et d'illustrations; le travail comporte galement des informations sur la morphologie des organes vgtatifs, la biologie, la reproduction, l'cologie et les introductions. De nouveaux caractres diagnostiques bass sur les structures foliaires sont utiliss pour la reconnaissance des espces. 
10.2307/3668033| De nouvelles rcoltes d'Oxystigma msoo ont permis d'largir l'aire de distribution de cette espce et d'en prciser l'cologie. Toutefois les menaces qui affectent son environnement rendent ncessaire la mise en protection des forts o elle se rencontre. 
10.2307/3667642| L'tude de matriaux rapports par Howarth  F. rubra L. var. tenuifolia (How.) How. permet de conclure  l'identit de cette varit avec F. rubra L. subsp. litoralis (G. F. W. Mey.) Auquier. Les travaux de Howarth consacrs  cette ftuque sont brivement discuts. Des donnes exprimentales rcentes confirment la valeur cotypique de cette sous-espce. 
10.2307/3668112| The study is based on a methodology presented by Glz & Reinhard and previously applied by these authors to difficult groups in the Orchidaceae. The results obtained in 1986 from measurements on more than 400 plants in our regions confirm the interest of such a methodology in studying the genus Dactylorhiza. The main conclusions of these investigations are as follows: (1) the taxonomical differences between D. sphagnicola and D. praetermissa on the one hand, and between D. maculata and D. fuchsii on the other hand, are analogous and rather low, which in both cases could justify considering these taxa at the level of subspecies; (2) the distinction of the latter two groups with respect to each other and to D. incarnata is much more significant; (3) in the localities prospected, various plants sometimes referred to as varieties or even subspecies of the aforementioned species (D. incarnata subsp. ochroleuca and subsp. pulchella, D. praetermissa var. junialis and subsp. integrata, D. maculata subsp. elodes) appear as biometrically very close to them; (4) the plants of D. maculata studied, all coming from the Ardennes, provide a very homogeneous sample but significantly differ from plants coming from other districts in Europe, which may constitute an argument towards the recognition of subsp. arduennensis; (5) among the five aforementioned species, D. fuchsii provides the most heterogeneous sample; (6) biostatistical research is a valuable tool in studying and identifying hybrids; three examples are given. 
10.2307/3667837| Several authors have suggested that Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek var. sublobata (Roxb.) Verdc. (= Phaseolus sublobatus Roxb.) is the common wild parent of both green gram (V. radiata) and black gram (V. mungo). Among wild material received from India under the name Phaseolus sublobatus Roxb., the authors were able to separate two taxa that can be clearly distinguished at a specific level on basis of morphological, biochemical and hybridological arguments. Vigna radiata var. sublobata (Roxb.) Verdc. undoubtedly remains the wild parent of the green gram. That of black gram is named Vigna mungo var. silvestris Lukoki, Marchal & Otoul var. nov. 
10.2307/3667415|Attention is drawn on the occurrence of gemmae on plants of Philonotis species, especially of tropical regions. Three types of gemmae are distinguished. The third type (fig. 4-6) can be observed on material under several names which in many cases are probably synonyms of a limited number of species.
10.2307/3667885| 186 specimens representing 32 local samples of Actiniopteris radiata (Sw.) Link, A. dimorpha Pic. Ser., A. semiflabellata Pic. Ser. and A. pauciloba Pic. Ser. from Zambia and the adjacent countries were studied biometrically in respect to 39 morphological characters. A numerical classification of these specimens based on 14 significant characters was computed. 593 further specimens from the whole African range of Actiniopteris [including also A. australis (L.f.) Link] were revised, and spore morphology in each taxon was studied. A. radiata, A. semiflabellata, A. pauciloba and A. australis proved to be " good " species clearly separated from each other. A. dimorpha appears highly polymorphic and seems to be of hybridogenic origin. Some of its specimens from Zambia, described as a new subspecies A. dimorpha Pic. Ser. subsp. diversiformis Korna, are clearly aberrant and may possibly represent a hybrid swarm. A key for identification of all taxa of Actiniopteris is given and their main diagnostic features are illustrated. 
10.2307/3668185| Latin diagnosis are provided for some new taxa of Lactarius in tropical Africa, especially from miombo woodland: Lactarius aurantiifolius, L. aureifolius, L. barbatus, L. brunnescens, L. cyanovirescens, L. densifolius, L. heimii, L. indusiatus, L. kabansus Pegler & Piearce var. pallidus, L. kivuensis, L. laevigatus, L. longipes, L. nonpiscis, L. pulchrispermus, L. pumilus, L. pusillisporus, L. roseolus, L. rubiginosus, L. rumongensis, L. ruvubuensis, L. saponaceus, L. subamarus, L. sulcatulus, L. undulatus and its var. rasilis, L. urens and L. velutissimus. All those taxa will be extensively described and illustrated in a revision of the genus Lactarius in tropical Africa, published by the National Botanic Garden of Belgium in the "Flore illustre des Champignons d'Afrique centrale". 
10.2307/3667872| The following six characters were studied in dicotyledonous flowering plants with the aid of Dahlgren's two-dimensional classification diagram of 1975: caducous or deciduous calyx, nervation types, geographic distribution, placentation types, seed types based on the form of the embryo and localization of floral nectaries. The results made it possible to suggest a revision of the taxonomic position for several taxa. These suggestions are further discussed using the revised classification scheme (Dahlgren 1980) which points to new positions for several higher taxa. According to us, the 1980 scheme shows much better the interrelations between families, orders and superorders. The study of both classification diagrams also revealed that one should reorientate the classification scheme only after cautious study of the characters. The diagram itself can rightly help in selecting characters and in defining a phylogenetically justified distinction of character states. /// L'tude de la distribution de six caractres chez les Dicotyledones (calice caduc ou dcidu, nervation des feuilles, distribution gographique, type de la graine d'aprs la position de l'embryon, localisation des nectaires floraux) permet,  l'aide du diagramme de la classification bi-dimensionnelle de Dahlgren (1975a) de suggrer quelques corrections quant  l'emplacement de certains taxons. La confrontation de ces donnes avec le nouveau diagramme de Dahlgren (1980), bien que celui-ci rende selon nous mieux que le diagramme prcdent les relations entre les familles, ordres et superordres, nous mne cependant  revoir la position de certains taxons suprieurs. Il ressort galement de l'tude compare des deux classifications de Dahlgren que seule une analyse approfondie de la distribution des caractres permet une rvision du diagramme; celui-ci peut en effet tre une aide prcieuse pour la slection des caractres et la dfinition des limites phylogntiquement justifies entre leurs diffrentes expressions. 
10.2307/3667782|Two new species of Pavetta are described.
10.2307/3667831| Algae and plankton samples were collected from 34 localities in the Ar Mountains (Southern Sahara, Niger Republic). About 530 species and infraspecific taxa were observed in these samples. The most numerous groups are the blue-green algae (20% of the flora), the diatoms (34%) and the green algae (38%) among which the desmids represent only 11% of the flora. This floristic composition matches rather well the composition of other algal floras in the Sahara and in northern Africa. Some new taxa are described, namely Cymbella hustedtii f. stigmata, Pinnularia dumontiorum, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii f. basimaculata, Provasoliella airensis, Sphaeroplea tenuis f. corrugata and Zygnema airense; some new combinations are proposed in Lyngbya (2) and in Navicula (1). Illustrations are provided, especially for the taxa not previously illustrated in works on Sahelian or Saharan algae. 
10.2307/3668194| It is proposed to consider the genus Cynomorium L. as monospecific, but including two subspecies with distinct distribution: C. coccineum L. subsp. coccineum, in the Mediterranean and Saharo-Sindian Regions with an irradiation in the Irano-Touranian Region through Iran, and C. coccineum subsp. songaricum (Rupr.) J. Lonard comb. nov., in the Irano-Touranian Region only. 
10.2307/3668298|After a survey of the taxonomical vicissitudes, a new generic circumscription for Alinula is proposed. The formerly monotypic genus is extended to include Mariscus malawicus, Lipocarpha paradoxa, Ascolepis peteri. Their spikelets are axillary to a small bract, and reduced to a prophyll and a well developed first glume, axillating one flower. This situation is completely different from that in Lipocarpha, with well developed spikelet bract and tiny hyaline spikelet prophyll and first glume. The four species are keyed out, and each one is followed by full synonymy, a short description, distributional data.
10.2307/3667566|In this revision fourteen species are recognized, among which one is new to science. In A. junceus Lehm. ex Schlechtend. three subspecies are distinguished. Some species frequently confused in the past could be accurately described. The recently described A. gramineus is reduced to A. stuhlmannii. It was found that the type and only collection of A. crinifolium is a mixture; the fertile parts belong to A. angustifolius while the leaves belong to an unknown grass, or sedge. All names have been properly typified and all existing types could be examined by the author. For A. junceus a neo-type was chosen. Descriptions are given of all species and a key is provided for their identification. A drawing of the generative parts of all species (except of A. ranunculiflorus) has been made, and a distribution map of each species has been prepared. All examined sheets are enumerated.
10.2307/3668349| Les caractres morphologiques et ultrastructuraux de l'exine du pollen de Martretia quadricornis Beille, compars  ceux de plusieurs Euphorbiaceae des deux sous-familles des Phyllanthoideae et des Oldfieldioideae, permettent de cerner les affinits de ce genre. Tout en gardant une certaine originalit, ce pollen prsente des rapports tant avec les Phyllanthoideae qu'avec les Oldfieldioideae. /// The morphological and ultrastructural data of the pollen exine of Martretia quadricornis Beille, compared to the ones of many Euphorbiaceae of the two sub-families Phyllanthoideae and Oldfieldioideae, permit to surround the affinities of this genus. In spite of a certain originality these pollen grains have some connections with the Phyllanthoideae and the Oldfieldioideae. 
10.2307/3668067|Disa Berg. sect. Micranthae Lindl. (Orchidaceae) is revised. Four series, 22 species and six subspecies are recognized. Each species is fully described, and the nomenclature and ecology of each is discussed. The possible evolutionary and speciation patterns in the section are mentioned.
10.2307/3668430| L'tude taxonomique des algues (diatomes exceptes) du rservoir hydrolectrique et hydroagricole de Bagr (Province du Boulgou), a permis de dcrire 99 taxons parmi lesquels on dnombre 75 Chlorophyta (75,7%), 16 Euglenophyta (16,2%), 5 Chromophyta (5,1%) et enfin 3 Cyanophyta (3%). Parmi les Chlorophyta, les Chlorococcales sont prdominantes (57,3%), suivies des Desmidiales (40%). 17 taxons sont nouveaux pour le pays, dont 13 appartiennent  l'embranchement des Chlorophyta, 3  l'embranchement des Euglenophyta, et 1  l'embranchement des Chromophyta. /// In a taxonomic study 99 taxa of algae (except diatoms) are reported from the Bagr hydro-lectric and hydro-agricultural reservoir (Boulgou province). Among which there are 75 Chlorophyta (75,7%), 16 Euglenophyta (16,2%), 5 Chromophyta (5,1%) and 3 Cyanophyta (3%). In Chlorophyta group, Chlorococcales are the most important (57,3%) then came in second place Desmidiales (40%). 17 taxons are news for Burkina Faso. 13 of them belong to Chlorophyta embranchement, 3 to Euglenophyta embranchement, and 1 to Chromophyta embranchement. 
10.2307/3668050|Description of ten new species of Vernonia (Asteraceae) from tropical Africa: V. dembocola, V. devredii, V. kasaiensis, V. lawalreeana, V. lisowskii, V. luaboensis, V. malaissei, V. muhiensis, V. shabaensis and V. upembaensis.
10.2307/3668104| A Rixensart (Belgique), une prairie semi-naturelle de 20 ares comprend quatre groupements vgtaux trs contrasts. Pour mettre en vidence la rpartition de chaque espce et la comparer avec celle des units de vgtation reconnues, une cartographie floristique en rseau a t ralise (435 relevs de 1 m
10.2307/3667894|As part of a multidisciplinary approach to a revision of the genus Baphia a comparative study of the leaf epidermis of 78 taxa of this genus and related genera using the light and scanning electron microscopes was undertaken. Variation observed in cell shape, anticlinal cell wall pattern, cell size, cell wall thickness, trichomes, papillae, stomata complex and wax are discussed and their taxonomic implications if any are noted. Of necessity, several figures are presented to explain the variations in those characters mentioned above.
10.2307/3667719|The first notification is given on the occurrence of Trichomanes mannii Hook. in the Flora Zambesiaca area (Zambia, Northwestern Province, Mwinilunga District). Key characters and geographical distribution of this species are discussed.
10.2307/3667936| A detailed caryological analysis was made for three closely allied species belonging to the subtribe Rottboelliinae (Andropogoneae, Gramineae), namely Chasmopodium caudatum (Hack.) Stapf, C. purpurascens (Robyns) W. D. Clayton and Rottboellia exaltata L. f. Their caryograms were compared. Chasmopodium caudatum differs from the other 2 species by its chromosome number and morphology. The taxonomic position of Chasmopodium purpurascens is discussed and rehabilitation of the generic name Robynsiochloa Jacques-Flix is proposed. 
10.2307/3667758|83 species and infraspecific taxa of aerial and subaerial blue-green algae were collected in the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg. The genera Lyngbya, Phormidium, Symploca, Plectonema on the one hand and Scytonema, Tolypothrix on the other hand are put in synonymy. 4 new names and 9 new combinations are proposed in Microcystis, Gloeocapsa, Lyngbya and Scytonema.
10.2307/3667481| The genus Breutelia includes 16 species from tropical Africa, Madagascar, Runion and Mauritius. These 16 species are keyed. Twelfe of them are described and illustrated, including two new species from Runion and Mauritius (B. borbonica, B. magdalenae). Five species described from this area are reduced to synonymy [B. cardotii Thr., B. gigantea (Brid.) Besch., B. lebrunii Demaret & Leroy, B. subgnaphalea (C. Mll.) Par., B. theriotii Nav.]. Four other species, reported from this area, are excluded, being doubtful for the area [B. jamaicensis (Mitt.) Jaeg., B. tomentosa (Brid.) Jaeg.], nomen nudum (B. abyssinica Schimp.) or unidentified because lacking adequate description and type [B. kilimandscharica (C. Mll.) Par.]. 
10.2307/3667835|The genus Cithareloma Bunge, previously known from sandy areas of the oriental part of the Irano-Touranian Region, is mentioned for the first time from Iran (Lut desert); the synonymy of C. registanicum Rech. f. with C. lehmannii Bunge is proposed.
10.2307/3668197|Description of 12 new species of Helichrysum Mill. and 3 new species of Anisopappus Hook. & Arn. from central Africa.
10.2307/3668322|A new diatom species, Surirella clavatiformis Denys, is described from the Belgian northern Campine. The new species is illustrated by means of an outline drawing, LM-micrographs and SEM-micrographs. An analysis is given of the water in which this diatom thrives.
10.2307/3667940| A new genus is established corresponding to sect. Sericellae Khner of the genus Lepiota. The following new combinations are made: Sericeomyces serenus with var. eriodermus, S. pulcherrimus, S. amylosporus, S. sericatus with var. sericatellus, S. gaugei, S. cygneus and S. cygneo-affinis. Two new species are established: Sericeomyces viscidulus and S. violaceus. An analytical key is provided, as well as commentaries on species. An extended study, with colour plates of the two new species will later appear in "Flore Illustre des Champignons d'Afrique Centrale". 
10.2307/3668463| Lors de la rvision du genre Brachystephanus il est apparu que deux espces, Brachystephanus coeruleus S. Moore et B. mannii C. B. Clarke, avaient t inadquatement places dans ce genre, et que leur transfert dans le genre Oreacanthus, dont elles partagent les caractres des fleurs et du pollen, s'avrait ncessaire. Une nouvelle combinaison, Oreacanthus coeruleus (S. Moore) Champluvier & Figueiredo, et un nouveau nom, O. cristalensis Champluvier & Figueiredo, sont tablis. 
10.2307/3668140| Le phytoplancton des eaux douces ivoiriennes est actuellement mal connu, bien que celui-ci,  l'instar des autres phytoplanctons du globe, occupe une place de choix dans les chanes trophiques des milieux aquatiques (production primaire). La possibilit de l'exploitation de ce phytoplancton, en pisciculture et mme pour la nutrition humaine, exige une bonne connaissance de ces plantes microscopiques. L'tude initie concerne le genre Scenedesmus vivant dans la mare et le complexe piscicole du Parc National du Banco, en Cte-d'Ivoire. /// At the present time the Ivorian freshwater phytoplankton is not well known, although like other phytoplanktons in the world it fills a prominent part in the food chain of aquatic environments (primary production). The possible use of this phytoplankton in pisciculture and even for human nutrition requires a good knowledge of these microscopic plants. The study initiated is about the genus Scenedesmus living in the pond and the piscicultural complex of the National Park of Banco in Cte-d'Ivoire. 
10.2307/3667994|Description of three new species: Achyropsis minutissima Lambinon (Amaranthaceae), Tinospora orophila Troupin (Menispermaceae) and Dorstenia nyungwensis Troupin (Moraceae), from Rwanda (the Tinospora also from Burundi). New combinations: Amaranthus cruentus L. var. patulus (Bertol.) Lambinon (Amaranthaceae), Pilea rivularis Wedd. var. brevinoda (Lambinon) Lambinon, var. stipulata (Hutch. & Dalz.) Lambinon and f. hypsophila (Hauman ex Lambinon) Lambinon (Urticaceae).
10.2307/3668476| Micropsalliota subalpina Guzmn & Heinem. nov. sp. est dcrit des pentes de la Nevado de Colima,  2250 m, dans l'Etat de Jalisco, au Mexique. C'est la troisime espce du genre connue du Mexique. 
10.2307/3668188|A new species, Cyperus altomicroglumis Lye, is described from southern Somalia. It is similar to C. haspan L. and C. denudatus L.f., but has wider and more prominently compressed spikelets, larger and more greyish glumes, and an achene which is minutely papillose rather than tuberculate.
10.2307/3667639| The generic limits between Lentinus Fr., Pleurotus (Fr.) Kummer and Panus Fr. sensu auctt. Eur. (= Lentinopanus Pilt) are discussed. Lentinus atrobrunneus Pegler and L. brunneofloccosus Pegler are described as new. The following new combinations are proposed: Lentinus anthocephalus (Lv.) Pegler comb. nov. (basionym: Agaricus anthocephalus Lv.), Phyllotopsis ealansis (Beeli) Pegler comb. nov. (basionym: Crepidotus ealansis Beeli). A detailed account on Lentinus and related genera will appear shortly in the "Flore iconographique des Champignons du Congo". 
10.2307/3667884| Etude phytosociologique et cologique d'un taillis driv d'une forts semi-caducifolie guinenne aprs des mises en culture de riz pluvial sur des brlis (tableau 1). Cycle de la vgtation entre deux mises en culture. Individualisation d'un groupement adventice  Cyperus cuspidatus et Biophytum petersianum (tableau 2) et d'un groupement de jachre principalement constitu de throphytes (tableau 3). /// The coppice with Malacantha alnifolia and Zanthoxylum zanthoxyloides of the plateau of Cabrousse-Diembreng, Lower Casamance-Country (Southern Senegal). -- Phytosociological (Braun-Blanquet's methodology) and ecological study of a coppice derived from a Guinean half-deciduous forest (table 1). Cycle of the vegetation between two cultivations. Individualization of an adventitious plant-association, with Cyperus cuspidatus and Biophytum petersianum, in the rice fields on oligotrophic sands (table 2). Description of the vegetation of the fallows after the harvest (table 3). 
10.2307/3668284| Comparaisons entre les spectres phytochorologiques de trois dserts d'Iran et ceux de diverses rgions environnantes. Par application des thories phytochorologiques de F. White et grce  l'tablissement des spectres phytochorologiques de diverses rgions dsertiques d'Iran, il est montr (1) que le Dasht-e-Kavir fait partie du centre rgional d'endmisme irano-touranien, (2) que le Dasht-e-Lut constitue une zone locale d'appauvrissement endmique au sein de ce centre irano-touranien et (3) que le Jaz Murian fait partie du centre local d'endmisme nubo-sindien qui appartient  la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne. Il est montr, d'autre part, comment l'importance relative des principaux groupes chorologiques volue graduellement lorsqu'on parcourt les rgions dsertiques d'Iran du nord (Thran) vers le sud (Bandar Abbas sur le dtroit d'Ormuz). Les tableaux prsents permettent d'expliquer clairement et logiquement l'volution de la vgtation dans l'espace. 
10.2307/3668358|The author describes three new taxa of the genus Cololejeunea: C, bergmaniana, C. irianensis and C. peraffinis var. ciconiae, collected by Sten Bergman in Irian Jaya during the year 1949.
10.2307/3668431|This paper is the first part of a taxonomic study of the diatoms (Families Thalassiosiraceae and Eunotiaceae) found in two aquatic macrophyte banks from Lagoa Bonita, Distrito Federal. The samples were collected monthly between March 1989 and March 1990. Five genera were identified (Aulacoseira, Cyclotella, Stephanodiscus, Actinella and Eunotia), among which, 21 specific and infra-specific taxa were found. All of them are first records for the Distrito Federal. Eunotia was the most common genus with 15 taxa. For each taxon, morphological information, comments, and Optical Microscope (O.M.) photographs are presented. Some taxa were examined using Scanning Electron Microscopy (S.E.M.). A new combination is proposed in the genus Eunotia (E. bilunaris).
10.2307/3667850| The genus Alberta comprises 6 species, 5 of which (including the newly described A. regalis) are endemic to Medagascar; A. magna is endemic to SE Africa. Morphological and anatomical evidence strongly suggests that the Madagascan species Nematostylis anthophylla (syn. N. loranthoides & Alberta loranthoides) is best considered a separate monotypic genus. Data from morphology, anatomy (leaf and node, flower, fruit, seed), embryology, palynology and karyology are presented and discussed for N. anthophylla and selected species of Alberta. As regards reproductive biological features, it is particularly noteworthy that the flowers have brightly coloured, enlarged ('petaloid') calyx lobes, which also serve as wings for the dispersal of the fruits; both psychophily (Alberta spp. and Nematostylis) and ornithophily (A. magna) occur. The relationships within the genus Alberta and between Alberta and Nematostylis, as well as possible affinities to other genera which were previously included in or associated with the tribe Alberteae are discussed. It appears that none of the latter are closely allied to the genus pair, which has no obvious relatives in Africa; data on Asian genera, which would possibly qualify as allies, are too scanty for meaningful comparisons to be made at present. The tribe Alberteae is believed to comprise only the genera Alberta and Nematostylis, and the tribe itself is thought to occupy a rather isolated position within the subfamily Ixoroideae, although a distant relationship may exist to the Vanguerieae and other tribes with solitary, pendulous ovules. /// Le genre Alberta comprend 6 espces, dont 5 (incl. A. regalis, espce nouvelle dcrite ici) endmiques de Madagascar, et une autre (A. magna) endmique du SE de l'Afrique. Des donnes morphologiques et anatomiques, on peut conclure que l'espce malgache Nematostylis anthophylla (syn. N. & A. loranthoides) reprsente un genre monotypique. Des donnes morphologiques, embryologiques, palynologiques et caryologiques, ainsi que des observations anatomiques sur les feuilles, les nuds, les fleurs, les fruits et les graines sont discutes pour N. anthophylla et pour une slection d'espces d'Alberta. En ce qui concerne la biologie reproductive, il est particulirement intressant de noter que les fleurs ont un calice  lobes (" petaloides ") largis et vivement colors, qui servent aussi d'aile pour la dispersion des fruits; aussi bien psychophilie (Alberta spp. et Nematostylis) qu'ornithophilie (A. magna) existent. Les relations au sein du genre Alberta et entre ce genre et Nematostylis, ainsi que les affinits possibles avec d'autres genres qui ont t inclus dans la tribu des Alberteae, sont discutes. Il est clair qu'aucun de ces genres n'est trs proche de ces deux genres, qui apparemment n'ont pas de voisins en Afrique; il y a trop peu d'informations sur les genres asiatiques ventuellement voisins pour qu'on puisse en tirer des comparaisons significatives. On considre que la tribu des Alberteae comprend seulement les genres Alberta et Nematostylis, et cette tribu occupe une position relativement isole dans la sous-famille Ixoroideae, mme si une certaine affinit avec les Vanguerieae et d'autres tribus  ovules solitaires et pendants, n'est pas exclue. 
10.2307/3668331|Information is given for 57 species, 45 of which were not recorded from Malawi in the accounts of their families in Flora Zambesiaca. Two new species, Cola chlorantha F. White and Ficus modesta F. White, are described, and two new combinations, Canthium whitei (Bridson) F. White and Rawsonia burtt-davyi (Edlin) F. White are made. Specific delimitation in Dovyalis, Podocarpus and Rinorea, generic delimitation in Buxus and Canthium, and generic and specific delimitation in Rawsonia are also discussed.
10.2307/3668360|Seven species of Micropsalliota are mentioned from tropical America. Two new species are described: M. cardinalis from northern Argentina and M. pruinosa from Brazil.
10.2307/3667765|Paralepistemon is described as a new genus in tropical Africa. The main diagnostic characters are the insertion of the stamens on scales situated towards the base of the corolla tube and the more or less woody and indehiscent fruits.
10.2307/3667652| In the author's opinion: 1. -- Sisymbrium supinum L. is indigenous only in its Baltic area, and has been introduced by birds into Netherlands, Belgium, France, Luxembourg, Germany, Switzerland (lake of Joux) and Spain; 2. -- several other Spermatophyta and Pteridophyta have been introduced by birds from Fennoscandia into Central Europe, or from Central Europe into Fennoscandia. /// De schrijver meent: 1. -- dat Sisymbrium supinum L. alleen in zijn Baltisch areaal inheems is, en door de vogels in Nederland, Belgi, Frankrijk, Luxemburg, Duitsland, Zwitserland en Spanje werd ingevoerd; 2. -- dat sommige andere Zaadplanten en Vaatcryptogamen door vogels uit Scandinavi en Finland naar Midden-Europa, of uit Midden-Europa naar Scandinavi en Finland werden ingevoerd. 
10.2307/3667935| Additions and some corrections to the flora of the Hepaticae of Southern Shaba, Zare [C. Vanden Berghen, Hpatiques et Anthocrotes, Expl. hydrobiol. Bassin Lac Bangweolo et Luapula 8 (1): 1-202. 1972]. 
10.2307/3667864| Un bref historique des diffrentes tudes entreprises sur les espces coralliformes du genre Euphorbia L.  Madagascar, puis une description ainsi que des dessins des diffrentes espces sont donns. Une nouvelle espce des Hauts Plateaux est dcrite. Ce travail est une mise  jour de la taxonomie de ce groupe, afin de permettre une meilleure comparaison des diffrentes espces. A short history of the studies on the coralliform species of Euphorbia L. in Madagascar and a description of the species are given. A new species of the High Plateaux is described. This is a taxonomical revision of the group in order to allow a better comparison of the different species. 
10.2307/3668320|Nine new species of Pleiotaxis and two new subspecies of Pasaccardoa jeffreyi Wild are described from Central Africa.
10.2307/3668356|Information is given for the three species of Faurea (Proteaceae) known from the evergreen forests of Malawi and for three others, (two new), which have been confused with one of them (F. racemosa).
10.2307/3667801| Les descriptions des diffrents taxons sont compltes. Une nouvelle combinaison est tablie. Une cl de dtermination de toutes les espces est propose. /// Descriptions of all taxa are completed. A new combination is established. A key for the determination of all species is given. 
10.2307/3667842| Le prsent travail constitue une tentative de division phytogographique de l'Afrique tropicale,  l'aide d'une analyse factorielle (Varimax rotated factors) des donnes floristiques extraites des cartes de distribution, publies dans Distributiones Plantarum Africanarum [Bamps P. (ed.), 1-14. 1969-1978]. Les cartes de distribution de 494 taxons ont t divises en 307 carrs de 2 30; ces carrs ont t compars entre eux quant  leur contenu floristique. Par l'union des carrs semblables, une carte phytogographique, qui est relativement satisfaisante, mais srement pas dfinitive a t constitue. L'analyse permet aussi de faire resortir les taxons qui ont jou un rle prpondrant dans la division phytogographique et qui composent donc des lments phytogographiques. 
10.2307/3667398| Rvision taxonomique du genre Casearia Jacq. en Afrique, y compris Madagascar et les Mascareignes, base sur les collections des herbiers les plus reprsentatifs pour ce genre. Les 34 espces dcrites  ce jour sont rduites  12 espces (et 1 varit), qui sont surtout spares par des caractres vgtatifs assez faibles; elles montrent d'ailleurs les mmes types de distribution que beaucoup d'autres espces africaines et peuvent tre considres comme des units plus ou moins naturelles. /// Taxonomic revision of the genus Casearia Jacq. for Africa, including Madagascar and the Mascarenes, based on the collections found in the herbaria most important for the genus. The 34 species described up to now are reduced to 12 species (with 1 variety), which are separated mainly by rather weak vegetative characters, but nevertheless show the same patterns of distribution known from many species in other genera in this area and can be considered to represent more or less natural units. 
10.2307/3667491| Thin layer chromatography is used to demonstrate the mycorrhyzal relations between Picea abies (L.) Karst. and three basidiomycetous fungi: Dermocybe sanguinea (Wulf. ex Fr.) Wnsche, D. cinnamomea (L. ex Fr.) Wnsche s.l. and Tylopilus felleus (Bull. ex Fr.) Karst. 
10.2307/3667761|2 new species belonging to the subgenus Weihea (Spreng.) Alston are described here; a key of the Central African species will be published later in the "Flore d'Afrique Centrale".
10.2307/3667717|First and second contribution to the study of the bryophytes, gathered by the author on different islands of the Indian Ocean. Twelve species, belonging to the genera Astomum, Macromitrium, Trichosteleum, Ochrobryum and principally Leucophanes are treated and illustrated; 3 species are described as new.
10.2307/3668429|A new classification of Sinarisaema from temperate Himalayan regions and neighbouring countries is obtained. This is mainly the result of recent cladistic observations made in the wild.
10.2307/3668181|The infraspecific variability of Oxyanthus speciosus (Rubiaceae-Gardenieae) in central Africa. A new infraspecific division of Oxyanthus speciosus is proposed. It is based on a study of the morphological variability of 507 mainly central African herbarium specimens. Morphological observations, in part represented on pictorialized distribution maps, and an anatomical study of the fruit wall allow to recognize four subspecies with distinct areas, viz. subsp. speciosus (wide Guineo-Congolian distribution), subsp. mollis (Zambezian distribution, especially in Zaire), subsp. stenocarpus (mainly in the Afromontane parts of eastern Africa) and subsp. gerrardii (only in South Africa).
10.2307/3668427|Three plant communities are described: coastal herbaceous community, coastal forest and grasslands on acid sandy soils.
10.2307/3668135| L'impact de la vgtation sur l'rosion des sols a t tudi en Dega Tembien, sur les Hauts-Plateaux semi-arides du nord de l'Ethiopie. La vgtation seminaturelle dgrade y est compose de fourrs sempervirents (parfois surpturs) sur les pentes fortes et quelques restes de savane de montagne en des endroits moins pentus (entre les champs et dans des pturages communautaires). La dforestation, induite par l'appauvrissement de la population et la recherche du rendement agricole maximal immdiat, a entran une diminution de l'infiltration, une augmentation du ruissellement et l'rosion des sols, tant en nappe que ravinante. Aprs un aperu global de l'importance de la vgtation pour la conservation des sols, le rle particulier de certaines espces est dcrit. Une bande de vgtation semi-naturelle (armo) tait (et est parfois encore) respecte  la limite infrieure des champs, rsultant en des talus colluviaux ou rideaux, qui contribuent  conserver l'eau et le sol. Actuellement, la communaut protge de nombreuses pentes fortes par le reboisement et par la mise en dfens, permettant la regnration spontane. Une classification du couvert vgtal en fonction du risque d'rosion correspondant aux diffrents types de vgtation est propose. 
10.2307/3667851| Mise  jour du groupe des espces gophytes du genre Euphorbia L.  Madagascar, description de 6 varits nouvelles (chez E. decaryi, E. franoisii, E. moratii et E. primulifolia) et cl de dtermination pour l'ensemble des espces de ce groupe. /// Revision of the geophyte species of Euphorbia L. of Madagascar. Six new varieties of E. decaryi, E. franoisii, E. moratii and E. primulifolia are described and a key is given for all the species of this group. 
10.2307/3667588| Description of Dicranolepis incisa A. Robyns sp. nov. and D. baertsiana De Wild. & Th. Dur. subsp. fulva A. Robyns subsp. nov., from the central forest district of Zare. 
10.2307/3667795|The herbaceous aquatic Hydrocharis chevalieri vegetation is described as a new association. Floristic composition, life-forms, phytogeographical features, diaspore-types and some environmental factors are analysed. Poor in species, the association comprises mainly geophytes and widely distributed species; the majority of the species are wind-disseminated.
10.2307/3668095|The revision of the collection of B. C. Dumortier (BR) allows one to typify several taxa of the genus Setaria (Poaceae) described by this author in 1824 and 1827. The following synonymies can be established: S. multiseta Dum. = S. italica (L.) Beauv.; S. viridis (L.) Beauv. [subsp.] nana Dum. = S. viridis and S. rubicunda Dum. = S. italica. S. verticilliformis Dum. has priority over the previously used S. ambigua (Guss.) Guss.[= S. decipiens C. Schimp. ex Nyman]. In addition, some observations give precisely the state of knowledge of the genus Setaria in Belgium and Luxemburg at the beginning of the XIX century.
10.2307/3668280|A detailed phytosociological study of the vegetation of the Tshopo waterfalls (Zaire) has been performed before the building of a dam. The various biotopes connected with the waterfalls, the rapids, the sprays and the water-level variations as well as the corresponding vegetation types are successively reviewed. A chapter is devoted to the biology of the three existing Podostemaceae (Leiothylax quangensis, Ledermanniella congolana, Tristicha trifaria subsp. trifaria) as well as to the way of pollination, mentioned for the first time, of Leiothylax quangensis by small aquatic coleoptera probably belonging to the newly (1964) described family Torridincolidae (a very interesting example of biocoenosis!). Six plant communities, connected with various well-defined habitats, have been made evident from the centre of the waterfalls towards the banks: Cladophora glomerata community, Leiothylax quangensis and Ledermanniella congolana association, Tristicha trifaria and Philonotis brevicuspes association, Eragrostis barteri and Dyschoriste perrottetii association, Biophytum zenkeri and Lepidagathis alopecuroides association as well as an herbaceous psammophytic periodically flooded community. The synthetical association table has also been established and the cover-value of each species has been calculated. Various data are also mentioned on the succession in space of the different plant communities. Finally a list is given of the collected cryptogams (algae, lichens, hepaticae, mosses and ferns) as well as of the most important phanerogams.
10.2307/3668152|Comments on four species, including taxonomic changes, needed for the treatment of the genus in "Flore d'Afrique Centrale".
10.2307/3667738|A detailed comparison of leaf morphology and anatomy, inflorescences, flowers, pollen, carpels and fruits of Otiophora and Mericocalyx leaves no doubt that the two genera are inseparable. Because of considerable overlap in most characters the two species of Mericocalyx are reduced to varieties. Mericocalyx, previously only known from Burundi, is now also recorded for Zaire.
10.2307/3668178|Pycnocoma Benth. is an African tropical genus confined to the continent. It comprises 18 shrubby species, 10 of which being represented in Zaire. A revision of these species is made and their distribution maps in Zaire are published. Four species are described as new: P. bampsiana, P. devredii, P. louisii and P. subflava. The study of the distribution maps of these 10 species shows that most of them occupy relatively limited areas and that these areas generally do not overlap. These areas occur in concentric zones from the bottom of the central zairan basin according to the altitude.
10.2307/3668090| Distribution records of all taxa of Galium occurring in Africa south of the Sahara are brought up to date by either (a) critically checking distribution data published in literature and, if applicable, adding overlooked and new collections, or (b) listing all available collections of taxa for which no precise distribution data have previously been published. A number of new distribution records are reported: new to Zaire are G. glaciale var. sattimae, G. stenophyllum, G. scioanum var. glabrum (also new to Cameroun), G. bussei var. bussei and var. glabrum; new to Rwanda are G. Thunbergianum var. hirsutum and G. simense; new to Moambique are G. bussei var bussei and var. glabrostrictius; new to Zambia is G. scioanum var. latum. Distribution maps of all species will be published in Distributiones Plantarum Africanarum 17 (1979). 
10.2307/3667737| Various taxonomic problems concerning tropical African and Madagascan taxa of Otiophora are critically discussed, and the following improvements are offered to the present classification of the genus: O. scabra Zucc. is subdivided into two subspecies, subsp. scabra and subsp. diffusa (Verdc.) Puff stat. nov.; var. iringensis Verdc. is transferred from O. parviflora Verdc. to O. villicaulis Mildbr.; a number of varieties are no longer recognized. Distribution records for each taxon were compiled from the herbarium material studied and reliable data published in literature; distribution maps will be published in Distributiones Plantarum Africanarum 21 (1981). Also included are (1) the first published chromosome counts for O. scabra subsp. scabra (n = 17, 2n = 34), and (2) pollen measurements of various taxa. Average pollen diameters are  uniform in O. scabra and the O. villicaulis complex and (1) indicate that the karyologically unknown O. scabra subsp. diffusa is also diploid, and (2) support the close relationship of the taxa forming the O. villicaulis complex. In O. caerulea and O. pauciflora, a wide range of pollen diameters is recorded, but there is no correlation between grain diameter and morphological characteristics or (in O. caerulea) distribution. 
10.2307/3667910| Three new species are described: Ascolepis spinulosa, A. fibrillosa and A. neglecta. The last two have 1-flowered spikelets with a rudimental second glume. A new genus Marisculus is described, based upon Ascolepis peteri Kkenthal. In the author's opinion, both Ascolepis and Marisculus belong to the tribe Cypereae; they are characterized by highly reduced 1-flowered spikelets, chlorocyperoid anatomy, embryo development and mature embryo of the Cyperus-type. 
10.2307/3667680|The genus Tecomaria is considered to include only one species, T. capensis, which is divisible into two subspecies with a marked geographical discontinuity between them. A new subspecific combination is made, and a distribution map is given.
10.2307/3667778|Notes about Central African orchids: Habenaria Willd., Polystachya Hook. with a new species: P. cribbiana Geerinck, and Zeuxine Lindl. with three new combinations: Z. heterosepala (Reich. f.) Geerinck, Z. mannii (Reich. f.) Geerinck, Z. occidentalis (Summerh.) Geerinck.
10.2307/3667699| Notes systmatiques, nomenclaturales, floristiques et cologiques sur Leontodon hyoseroides Welw. ex Reichb. var. hyoseroides, Viola hispida Lam. et Galium fleurotii Jord. var. gracilicaule (Rouy) J. Duvign. comb. nov. Description du Violo-Galietum gracilicaulis Liger & J. Duvign., association nouvelle du Leontodontion hyoseroidis J. Duvign., Durin & Mullend. 
10.2307/3668193|24 species of Polytrichaceae occur in Africa south of the Sahara: Pseudoracelopus marginatus (Mitt.) G. L. Smith, Atrichum androgynum (C. Muell.) Jaeg., Oligotrichum cavallii (Negri) G. L. Smith, O. afro-laevigatum (Dix.) G. L. Smith, O. wageri (Broth. ex Dix.) J. L. De Sloover comb. nov. (= Psilopilum wageri Broth. ex Dix.), Polytrichastrum formosum (Hedw.) G. L. Smith, P. longisetum (Sw. ex Brid.) G. L. Smith, Polytrichum piliferum Schreb. ex Hedw., P. juniperinum Willd. ex Hedw., P. commune L. ex Hedw., P. subpilosum P. Beauv., Pogonatum microstomum (Schwaegr.) Brid., P. urnigerum (Hedw.), P. Beauv., P. oligodus (C. Muell.) Mitt., P. simense (C. Muell.) Jaeg., P. capense (Hampe) Jaeg., P. congolense Card., P. semilamellatum Leroy, P. rutenbergii (Geh.) Paris, P. flexuosum Mitt., P. molleri (C. Muell.) Paris, P. belangeri (C. Muell.) Jaeg., P. ugandae P. Varde and P. rubenti-viride (C. Muell.) Paris. Key, synonyms, distributions and comments are given for the 24 species; illustrations for 19 species; distribution maps for 7 species; and detailed altitudinal ranges for 6 species.
10.2307/3668426| Flora of Turtell V island, a low-wooded island, has been reassessed prior to vegetation analysis and mapping: 48 species are to be added to Fosberg & Stoddart's updating (1991) what makes this relatively small island the richest one of the archipelago. Vegetation has been analysed according to the Braun-Blanquet method. Ten vegetation units have been separated following ordination and clustering analyses; three subunits or small units were then added to achieve thirteen vegetation units which have been mapped on the basis of a colour aerial photography; the produced map has been compared to Stoddart's geomorphological map (1973) and to the structural map devised by Meischner (1996). The part plaid by the Torresian Imperial-Pigeon through its endozoochorous seed import from the mainland is pointed out in relation to shrub and tree composition of central scrub and woodland. /// La flore de l'le corallienne de Turtell V a t inventorie en prenant comme base la mise au point de Fosberg & Stoddart (1991): 48 espces doivent y tre ajoutes ce qui porte la richesse spcifique actuelle  78 et fait de cette petite le la plus diversifie de l'archipel. La vgtation a t analyse en suivant la mthode de Braun-Blanquet: dix units de vgtation ont ensuite t reconnues  la suite d'une ordination et d'un groupement; trois sous-units ont encore t ajoutes pour porter  treize le nombre d'units de vgtation cartographies  l'aide d'une photographie arienne en couleur. Enfin, la carte obtenue a t compare  la carte gomorphologique de Stoddart (1973) et  celle rcemment publie par Meischner (1996). Une place particulire a t rserve au comportement du pigeon imprial qui par ses apports rguliers parat jouer un rle de premier plan dans la composition floristique de la vgtation arbustive et arborescente du coeur de l'le. 
10.2307/3668283| Une nouvelle espce d'Otacanthus, O. crenatus Ronse & Philcox, endmique du Brsil oriental, est dcrite et sa distribution est donne. 
10.2307/3668089| Empogona, first a genus (4 species) and later a section (7 species) of Tricalysia, is delimited as a subgenus of Tricalysia with 27 African species. The general part gives the history of the groups concerned and morphological, some anatomical, palynological, chorological and ecological data. In the taxonomic part, the subgenus is divided into two sections, Empogona and Kraussiopsis. Three new species are described: T. acidophylla (Tanzania), T. aulacosperma (Zaire, Kivu) and T. ngalansis (Malawi). Two nomenclatural changes are the merging of T. allenii (Stapf) Brenan with T. junodii Schinz and the use of the name T. ruandensis Bremek. for a species widely known as T. congesta Hiern. /// Empogona, d'abord considr comme un genre (4 espces), puis comme une section (7 espces) de Tricalysia, est considr comme un sousgenre (27 espces Africaines) de Tricalysia. La partie gnrale retrace l'histoire des groupes concerns et fournit des donnes morphologiques, palynologiques, chorologiques et cologiques, ainsi que quelques donnes anatomiques. Dans la partie taxonomique, le sous-genre est divis en deux sections, Empogona et Kraussiopsis. Trois espces nouvelles sont dcrites: T. acidophylla (Tanzania), T. aulacosperma (Zare, Kivu) et T. ngalansis (Malawi). Deux changements de nomenclature: la mise en synonymie de T. allenii (Stapf) Brenan avec T. junodii Schinz et l'emploi du nom T. ruandensis Bremek. pour une espce gnralement connue comme T. congesta Hiern. 
10.2307/3668223|Arthropteris monocarpa (Cordemoy) C. Christensen seems to be endemic in Reunion, where it grows between 800 and 1900 m. Two species closely allied are described as new: A. anniana, of montane forests between 800 and 2700 m in continental intertropical Africa and Madagascar; A. antun-gupffertiae, of the African rainforest, from sea-level to ca. 800 m.
10.2307/3668037|Description of a new species, only known from the Nyungwe forest (SW Rwanda) at an elevation of about 2000 m, differing from C. africana Pilger by the robustness of most parts: longer leaves, panicle, branches and pedicels.
10.2307/3668220|Description of a new species of Euphorbiaceae, Monadenium hedigerianum Malaisse, growing in piemont woodlands of the Kundelungu plateau. The systematic position of the new taxon is discussed.
10.2307/3668138|Flora and vegetation of rock outcrops (granite inselbergs, quarzitic outcrops, ferricretes) in Rwanda and eastern Zaire are described. Characteristic formations and habitats are cryptogamic crusts on rocks, crevices, seasonally water-filled rock pools and shallow depressions. Monocotyledonous mats and ephemeral flush communities which are otherwise widespread on rock outcrops in Africa and other regions are not present. Floristically the rock outcrops in Rwanda are homogeneous in possessing cryptogamic crusts (lichens) and regular occurrence of poikilohydric (Craterostigma spp., Lindernia spp.) respectively succulent (e.g. Aloe spp., Caralluma spp.) vascular plants. A number of locally restricted endemics (e.g. Streptocarpus bindseilii, Stemodiopsis ruandensis) occurred. Floristically distinct was a granite inselberg studied in eastern Zaire which was characterized by cryptogamic crusts made up of cyanobacteria and the absence of poikilohydric or succulent vascular plants. Only a few species (e.g. Cyanotis lanata, Lindernia exilis) are in common with West African rock outcrops. Phytogeographically affinities of the rock outcrops studied are best developed with the Zambezian region. Ceropegia stenantha, C. stenoloba, Lindernia exilis, L. wilmsii, Polystachya dendrobiiflora, and Selaginella niamniamensis are reported for the first time to occur in Rwanda.
10.2307/3667446|Two Central African new species of Striga are described and illustrated. S. hallaei (sect. Pentapleurae Wettst.), from Gabon and Congo-Kinshasa (Kivu), appears to be the single species of the genus growing in the rain forest. S. chrysantha (sect. Polypleurae Wettst.), from Centrafrican Rep. and Congo-Kinshasa (Uele), is, as far as known, endemic of a restricted savannah area, where it grows on rocks.
10.2307/3668473| La prsente tude est consacre  l'examen, par des observations morphologiques, cologiques et phytogographiques de terrain, de 28 taxons cophyltiques qui rpondent  la notion de vicariance dans le contexte du Cameroun. Deux grands groupes ont t dgags et des termes plus appropris ont t proposs pour les dsigner. En conclusion, les effets de la vicariance sembleraient se manifester par de simples adaptations cologiques qui conditionneraient les diffrences morphologiques des individus pour faire apparatre des phnotypes dissemblables. /// The present study is devoted to the survey of 28 ecophyletic taxa which correspond to the morphological, ecological and phytogeographic observations in the field. Two main groups have been distinguished and more suitable terms had been proposed to designate them. In conclusion, it can be said that the effects of vicariance could appear only by simple ecological adaptations which are shown in the different phenotypes. 
10.2307/3668252|A taxonomic study has been made of Begonia sect. Mezierea (Gaud.) Warb. The six species accommodated in the section, B. comorensis Warb., B. humbertii Keraudren-Aymonin, B. meyeri-johannis Engl., B. oxyloba Welw. ex Hook. f., B. salaziensis (Gaud.) Warb. and B. seychellensis Hemsley are described. A list of specimens examined is given. The ecology of the species of sect. Mezierea is described. All species are principally distributed in montane regions, where they prefer a rain forest habitat. A reconstruction of the phylogeny of the section has been made using cladistic methods. Arguments are provided for treating the section as a monophyletic group. The cladogram reflects the three subgroups within the section as recognized by De Wilde and Arends (1989). By many authors Begonia sect. Mezierea (Gaud.) Warb. is considered to be the most primitive among all the African sections of Begonia. Moreover, it is the only of the African sections which occurs on the African continent as well as on Madagascar and offshore islands.
10.2307/3667602| Description of a new species of Thymelaeaceae from Zare, District of Upper-Katanga: Gnidia quarrei A. Robyns. 
10.2307/3668032|The roots of several species of Eminia contain a very actif amylase used in the brewing of " munkoyo ". After examination of an important number of specimens the number of taxa is reduced to four: E. antennulifera, E. benguellensis, E. harmsiana and E. holubii. The genus is endemic to the Zambesian Region as defined by White (1976).
10.2307/3667895|Study of the types of 7 species belonging to the group of Bryum capillare Hedw. likely to occur in Belgium, and critical analysis of the work of H. Syed: "A taxonomic study of Bryum capillare Hedw. and related species."
10.2307/3667815|A chorological analysis of the Guineo-Congolian Region, based chiefly on distribution maps of 288 species, most of which are endemic or almost so. The Upper Guinea, Lower Guinea and Congolia subcentres of endemism, and the Dahomey and Sangha River interval are discussed. Some new and modified chorological concepts are defined.
10.2307/3668203|Cassipourea evrardii, a new species belonging to the subgen. Lasiosepalum Alston, is described from swampy places of the Zairian central forests.
10.2307/3668275| La prsence de Conceveiba macrostachys et Pogonophora letouzeyi au Gabon, dont les cartes de distributions sont donnes, montre la richesse florale de ce pays et confirme la relation entre cette flore et celle de la partie nord-est de l'Amrique mridionale. 
10.2307/3667794|The genus Sprucella Steph. is relegated at the level of a subgen. of Lepidozia Dum., with only one species: Lepidozia succida Mitt., with two varieties: var. succida and var. ubangiensis (Steph.) Vanden Bergen stat. nov.
10.2307/3668010| Description of a new species, Senecio nyungwensis from Zare and Rwanda; first identification of a species of Cirsium Miller for Central Africa. 
10.2307/3668031| Only 5 species of Porotrichum and 2 species of Porothamnium occur in Africa south of the Sahara: Porotrichum elongatum (Welw. & Duby) Gepp, P. caudatum Broth., P. quintasii Broth., P. molliculum Broth., P. madagassum Kiaer ex Besch., Porothamnium variifolioides J.L. De Sloover sp. nov., and P. stipitatum (Mitt.) Touw ex J.L. De Sloover comb. nov. A key, synonyms, descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps and comments are given. The following new combination is also made: Thamnobryum corticola (Kindb.) J.L. De Sloover [Thamnium comorense (Hampe ex C. Mll.) Kindb. subsp. corticola Kindb.]. 
10.2307/3668097|Mention of rare or new species for the Iran flora and of changes of specific names cited in Flora iranica of K. H. Rechinger.
10.2307/3668300| To describe the morphological variation of a population of D. maculata (L.) So, 86 individuals were biometrically investigated using 19 different characteristics. These individuals were grouped in morphological types which were compared with descriptions in systematic literature. Next to this, representative and diagnostic characteristics of these groups were defined. After an initial identification and the following numerical analysis, the morphological variation of the investigated Dactylorhiza population seemed to be very divergent and contained characters of different Dactylorhiza species. Most of the studied individuals are to be considered as D. maculata (L.) So and associated forms. Two individuals display strong resemblences to the description of D. traunsteineri (Sauter) So. Multivariate analysis and statistics, such as cluster analysis, principal component analysis and discriminant analysis, are relatively objective methods. Therefore they are appropriate to translate biometrical data into taxonomical applications. 
10.2307/3668289| The type-species of the genus Leonardoxa is L. africana. A. Aubrville also included in this genus L. bequaertii and L. romii. In 1976, after data published in the literature, we doubted the inclusion of L. romii in the genus Leonardoxa. After the anatomical study of the wood of these three species, we now confirm that L. romii would be better classified in a distinct genus. On the other hand, the wood structure of L. africana and L. bequaertii are very similar as shown by the microphotographies included. 
10.2307/3668086|Alkaloids are found in 9 out of 72 examined taxa of Rubiaceae from the surroundings of Lubumbashi (Zaire), viz. in the genera Sarcocephalus, Gardenia, Leptactina, Pavetta and Oldenlandia. They occur in the leaves of S. pobeguinii, which is the first mention of alkaloids in a genuine Sarcocephalus. Alkaloids were also not yet found in the genus Gardenia; they are here reported from the leaves of G. imperialis.
10.2307/3668392|The pantropical genus Emilia is represented by only 6 species in West Tropical Africa; 5 species are known from Guinea, 2 of them occuring only in this country.
10.2307/3667483|The structure of the epispore of the Stemonitales has been analysed with the scanning electron miscroscope (SEM). Palynological terminology has been used in describing spore wall ornamentations. For several species the real nature of the ornamentation has been described for the first time since the spore markings are not completely resolved by conventional techniques of light microscopy. The different types are figured and their occurence in the order is shortly discussed.
10.2307/3667487|The authors give the chromosome number of 16 grasses from southwest Cameroun; each chromosome set is illustrated by a photograph.
10.2307/3667839| L'intrt de la flore et de la vgtation de la plaine de la basse Rusizi a t maintes fois soulign par le pass et la mise en rserve de ses secteurs les plus reprsentatifs souvent demande. C'est pour combler une partie de ces lacunes et pour prciser encore la valeur de ce site remarquable qu'une tude phytosociologique dtaille en a t ralise. Outre l'tablissement de la carte de ses associations les plus caractristiques et leur description, cette tude a aussi permis de prciser certaines relations existant entre les sols et les vgtations qu'ils supportent. Notre tude montre enfin clairement le paralllisme existant entre l'occupation progressive de la plaine par l'homme, agriculteur puis leveur, et la rgression du couvert vgtal ligneux pendant ces dernires dcennies. Les rsultats d'une tude phnologique plus dtaille des diffrentes associations recenses feront l'objet d'une publication future. /// The interest in the flora and vegetation of the plain of the lower Rusizi has often been stressed in the past and the setting aside of its most representative sectors as a reserve has often been requested. It is to fill part of these shortcomings and to underline once more the value of this remarkable site that a detailed phytosociological study has been performed. Apart from drawing a map of its most characteristic vegetal collectivities and from their description, this study has also allowed to determine some connections existing between the soils and the vegetation they support. Our study clearly shows the parallel between the gradual occupation of the plain by man, first agriculturist then cattle breeder, and the regression of the tree cover during the last decades. The results of a more detailled phenological study of the various noted collectivities will be the subject of a future publication. 
10.2307/3668471|Collections were made at two-monthly intervals over a period of two years (1988-1989) in the Eastern Region of the Federal District, Central Brazil. Of the 128 samples taken, 74 had Cyanophyceae, from these 41 contained species and infraspecific taxa belonging to the family Oscillatoriaceae and 33 presented a total of 24 species and infraspecific taxa belonging to the families Chroococcaceae, Nostocaceae, Scytonemataceae and Stigonemataceae. The family Oscillatoriaceae will be presented in the second part. The family Chroococcaceae was the best represented (16 species and one atypical variety), followed by the Scytonemataceae (4 species), the Stigonemataceae (3 species) and the Nostocaceae (1 species). The genera Chroococcus (Chroococcaceae) and Scytonema (Scytonemataceae) showed the largest number of species, with 6 and 4 respectively. Chroococcus minutus was the commonest species, occurring in 9 of the 33 samples containing Cyanophyceae, while Chroococcus turicensis, Merismopedia punctata, Microcystis incerta, Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii, Hapalosiphon arboreus, Stigonema ocellatum, Scytonema coactile and S. guyanense, found in only one sample, may be considered rare. All taxa with the exception of Scytonema cf. amplum have already been reported from Brazil and from the Federal District making it clear that the Cyanophyceae in these four families are in most cases common in the Federal District and reasonably so elsewhere in Brazil.
10.2307/3667429|The pollen of 61 species of Quararibea s.l. (Matisia included) has been studied by light, scanning electron and transmission electron microscopy. Six pollen types are recognized: Q. cordata-, Q. asterolepis-, Q. bicolor-, Q. intricata-, Q. stenopetala-, and Q. asymmetrica-type. Since no correlation was found between macromorphology and pollen morphology, separation of Quararibea Aubl. (1775) and Matisia Humb. & Bonpl. (1805) is not supported. Three new combinations are established: Q. apaporiensis, Q. idroboi and Q. soegengii.
10.2307/3667561|The genera Mapania and Hypolytrum include peculiar Cyperaceae belonging to the tribe of Hypolytreae. These plants live in the underwood of dense tropical forests. The Cyperaceae, just like the Gramineae, are well known for their strict anemophily; however, the Mapania and most of the Hypolytrum of Ivory Coast which we have studied, are fertilized by various insects, and even by molluscs.
10.2307/3668055| A revision of the more important Belgian collections of the genus Diderma has revealed the occurrence of sixteen species, of which only D. testaceum and D. hemisphaericum have already been reported from Belgium. In addition D. donkii var. echinosporum var. nov. is described. Special attention has been paid to make the descriptions as complete and accurate as possible, with special attention to microscopical characters of capillitium and peridium inner layer. Each species is carefully illustrated. Previous reports of D. globosum in Belgium all turned out to be wrong determinations. /// Een revisie van de belangrijkste Belgische collecties van Diderma bracht het voorkomen van zestien soorten aan het licht, waarvan slechts D. testaceum en D. hemisphaericum reeds in Belgi werden waargenomen. D. donkii var. echinosporum var. nov. wordt beschreven. De beschrijvingen zijn zo volledig mogelijk; vooral aan microscopische kenmerken van capillitium en peridiumbinnenlaag werd uitvoerig aandacht besteed. Speciale aandacht ging ook naar het getrouw afbeelden van elke soort. Eerdere meldingen van D. globosum in Belgi betroffen alle foutieve determinaties. /// La rvision des collections belges les plus importantes de Diderma montre l'existence de seize espces, dont seulement D. testaceum et D. hemisphaericum ont dj t rapports pour la Belgique. D. donkii var. echinosporum var. nov. est dcrit. Les descriptions sont aussi compltes que possible; les caractres microscopiques du capillitium et du peridium ont t traits de manire plus dtaille que d'habitude. Une attention particulire a t attribue  l'iconographie fidle de chaque espce. Les mentions antrieures de D. globosum en Belgique concernaient des dterminations fautives. 
10.2307/3667779|A vegetation type characterized by Spermacoce latifolia and invading cultivated fields in the administrative Kisangani and Tshopo sub-regions (Zaire) is described in detail. This vegetation-type has but few species and none is exclusive; nevertheless some may be considered as truly elective and characteristic. The biological spectrum shows the dominance of therophytes, whereas the geographical analysis emphasizes the prevalence of Guineo-Congolian and pantropical species. From an ecological viewpoint this vegetation-type seems to inhabit a lightly nitrophilous sandy-clayish soil with a pH varying between 5.4 and 6.2. The biomass under and above ground is estimated at 5.23 tons per ha.
10.2307/3668321| Two American Salvia (S. occidentalis and S. misella) are reported for the first time as weeds in Zaire. A general key for the eight Salvia known in Central Africa (Zare, Rwanda and Burundi) is given, with their distribution in this area. 
10.2307/3668461| Description d'une nouvelle espce de Diospyros, D. whitei, en provenance de la Rpublique du Congo et appartenant  la section Katula. 
10.2307/3668096|The taxonomic value of the characters used in the delimitation of a group of taxa forming Gyroporus castaneus s.l. is studied. Clamp connexions, by no means essential at the genus level, are used in the delimitation of species and varieties. The dimensions of the spores and the stoutness of the carpophores led to the recognition of 3 species each with 2 varieties: G. castaneus and var. afibulatus var. nov., G. heterosporus and var. afibulatus var. nov., G. microsporus comb. nov. and var. congolensis var. nov. A crystallized red pigment is observed in the cuticle of G. castaneus, though it does not seem to be present in every collection.
10.2307/3667722| Pour la premire fois une espce du genre Trichia a complt son cycle in vitro. Le plasmode est du type "Trichiaceae". L'analyse au microscope optique et au microscope lectronique  balayage dmontre que les sporocarpes cultivs sont identiques dans leurs caractres morphologiques  ceux de la collection originale. /// It is for the first time that a spore to spore culture of a species belonging to the genus Trichia is reported. The plasmodium is of the Trichiaceae-type. Observation under the light microscope and the scanning electron microscope of the cultured sporocarps demonstrates that they are identical in their morphological differentiation to the sporocarps of the original collection. 
10.2307/3668378| A new species of Aframomum (Zingiberaceae) has been found in the 'Fort des Abeilles' near Makand, a locality in the center of Gaboon. It has a very elongated and twisted ligula and the inflorescence capitate with 5-10 flowers. It was never seen elsewhere during our journey in Gaboon when we visited Libreville, Cap Esterias, Lop forests and the biological station of Mpassa at Makokou. 
10.2307/3667911|Light microscopical and transmission electron microscopical observations concerning the morphology and cytology of the spore-like bodies are given. Special attention is paid to the differences between spore-like bodies in the top and the base of the same stalk. From cultural attempts can be concluded that spore-like bodies are in a different physiological condition than the spores. Possibly these bodies did not undergo meiosis, are diploid, and function as macrocysts.
10.2307/3668056| Etude de la vgtation d'une " Terrasse suprieure " dans la plaine alluviale d'un sous-affluent de la Casamance, le long de plusieurs transects tracs entre les dpressions inondes par de l'eau saumtre et des sables temporairement mouills par de l'eau douce. Dfinition des groupements vgtaux suivants: association  Eragrostis gangetica (tableau 1), association  Hygrophila barbata (tableau 2), association  Bacopa decumbens (tableau 3). /// Study of the vegetation of an " Upper Terrace " in the alluvial plain of a creek, tributary of the river Casamance, along two transects, between, on the one end, soils inundated by brackish water and, on the other end, sands temporarily moistened by fresh water. Definition of the following plant communities (Braun-Blanquet's methodology): association with Eragrostis gangetica (table 1), ass. with Hygrophila barbata (table 2), ass. with Bacopa decumbens (table 3). 
10.2307/3668109|Pyrenacantha kirkii Baill., known from Zambia and Mozambique, is recorded for the first time in Shaba (Zaire) and a key to the eight species occuring in Zaire is provided.
10.2307/3667678|Embryos of the genera Cladium, Machaerina, Lepidosperma, Tricostularia, Caustis, Costularia, Tetraria, Morelotia, Gahnia, Actinoschoenus and Trachystylis were made translucid with NaOCl and chlorallactophenol and were studied under the light microscope. It was found that all of the above named taxa have characteristic embryos and should be considered as different genera. Further on it was stated that the embryos of all Rhynchosporoideae genera as studied by Verbelen (1970) and me are far less differentiated than those of the Cyperoideae genera studied by Van der Veken (1965), so that embryological evidence supports the not generally accepted distinction of the two subfamilies.
10.2307/3667734| Algae and plankton samples were collected from 21 localities in central and south-eastern Iran by J. Lonard, botanist of the Belgian scientific expedition to the deserts of Iran in 1972. About 300 species and infraspecific taxa were observed, of which the diatoms represent more than the two thirds. The green algae and the blue-green algae represent respectively only 17% and 14% of the algal flora. Two new species, Nitzschia curvata and N. iranica, and a new form, Navicula egregia f. elongata are described. 
10.2307/3667484| Julbernardia pellegriniana Troupin, known only from Cameroun and Gabon, is discovered in the Lower Zare area. The synonymy of the genus Paraberlinia, where the species was previously placed, is justified by arguments from palynology and blastogeny. 
10.2307/3667424|Three new species are described: Lyngbya tchadensis, Oscillatoria gerdae and O. iltisii. New names and combinations are established in the genera Lyngbya (8), Microcystis (1), Nodularia (1) and Oscillatoria (3).
10.2307/3667532|The genus Macrolepiota Sing. (Leucocoprineae) in the Congo-Kinshasa. -- Eight species of Macrolepiota are known from the Congo-Kinshasa: M. procera (Scop. ex Fr.) Sing., M. prominens (Fr.) Moser, M. africana (Heim) Heinem. comb. nov. (basionym: Leucocoprinus africanus Heim), M. gracilenta (Krombh.) Moser var. goossensiae (Beeli) Heinem. comb. nov., M. zeyheri (Berk.) Sing., M. abruptibulba (Heim) Heinem. comb. nov. (basionym: Leucocoprinus abruptibulbus Heim), M. odorata Heinem. sp. nov. and M. albida Heinem. comb. nov. (basionym: Lepiota albida Beeli, non Mass.). M. rhacodes (Vitt.) Sing. and M. excoriata (Schaeff. ex Fr.) Moser have been erroneously cited from the Congo-Kinshasa; however these species, and also M. mastoidea (Fr.) Sing., could exist in Central Africa. A key is given for these eleven species. Lepiota ochraceo-umbonata Beeli is a name to be rejected.
10.2307/3668077| The Central African material of Lasianthus Jack is revised, whereby a thorough examination of the fruits is done. A synoptic table gives a survey of the important characters of the recognized taxa. Two species occur in the Central Forest District of Zare and penetrate in the Lower Congo or the Kasai: L. batangensis K. Schum. and L. repens Hepper. L. mayumbensis Good is restricted to the Mayumbe District, L. seseensis M. R. F. Taylor and L. kilimandscharicus K. Schum. subsp. kilimandscharicus to the eastern (submontane and montane) part of the area studied. 
10.2307/3668337|A new gum bush, Pteronia diosmifolia Brusse (Asteraceae, Astereae), is described from the limestone regions of the south-western Cape, South Africa, near Bredasdorp. This species is unique in the genus Pteronia, in possessing closely set, thick, opposite and decussate leaves, resembling some members of the Rutaceous tribe Diosmeae.
10.2307/3668267|The floral development of four species of the Nyctaginaceae is described. An involucrum surrounds the dichasial inflorescences of all species studied, except for Pisonia brunoniana. In the involucrum of Bougainvillea glabra three flowers are present while in Mirabilis longiflora and Mirabilis jalapa only a single flower is maintained. The five-membered perianth tube is interpreted as a calyx with a corolloid appearance. The anthocarp, which encloses the fruit, is considered to be the transformed lower part of the perianth. A reduction in stamen number is suggested within the Nyctaginaceae resulting in the five-membered androecium of Mirabilis longiflora and Mirabilis jalapa. Nectariferous tissue is associated with the filament bases. The nectarial zones are characterized as caducous, androphyllominous nectaries of the staminal type. The monocarpellate gynoecium is characterized by a leptate carpelform. An appendage, viz. the adaxial pistillary primordium bears the single basal ovule. Therefore the ovule cannot be regarded as a terminal structure. It is argued that the origin of the ovule is carpellate and not cauline.
10.2307/3668453| Odzala National Park is situated at the extreme north-west of the Congo Cuvette, on a plateau at 500-600 m a.s.l. The southern half consists of a mosac of forest and Hymenocardia acida savanna, while the forest becomes continuous in the north. There are two main types of forest: mixed, semi-evergreen on dry sandy soils (making up over 90% of all forests) and swamp forest. In addition, the two main rivers are lined with dense riparian forest. The savannas are dotted about with numerous small evergreen thickets, currently expanding, with Gaertnera paniculata acting as fire-break. The next stage of forest regeneration is closed-canopy (25-35 m high) evergreen forest, with largely woody understorey; Pentaclethra eetveldiana and Xylopia aethiopica are important canopy trees and Piptadeniastrum africanum often the only emergent. Over 350 woody species were identified in the various forest types. Dryland forests are the most diverse, with many emergent species (40-50 m high) and a broken canopy. The following 15 species are some of the more widespread large trees: Blighia welwitschii, Canarium schweinfurthii, Dracaena mannii, Entandrophragma candollei, Erythrophleum suaveolens, Guarea cedrata, Irvingia grandifolia, Klainedoxa gabonensis, Lophira alata, Parinari excelsa, Petersianthus macrocarpus, Piptadeniastrum africanum, Pterocarpus soyauxii, Pycnanthus angolensis, Staudtia gabonensis. In places, this forest type has a parklike structure, and the understorey is dominated by Marantaceae (especially Haumania liebrechtsiana) and Zingiberaceae. Swamp forests are more homogeneous and usually have a closed canopy (20-30 m high), often dominated by Xylopia aethiopica and X. rubescens; the main emergents are Entandrophragma palustre and Mitragyna ciliata. Other important trees are Baphia laurifolia, Cryptosepalum congolanum, Gilbertiodendron ogoouense and Klaineanthus gaboniae. Raphia cf. mombuttorum is common locally, especially on wetter ground. Riparian forest is characterised by Irvingia smithii and Uapaca heudelotii, with also Berlinia congolensis, Ceiba pentandra, Crudia spp., Cynometra spp., Guibourtia demeusei, Homalium africanum, Lophira alata, Nauclea pobeguinii, Oxystigma buchholzii, Terminalia superba and Trichilia retusa to name the commoner species. Except very locally (near the main rivers), the dryland forests of Odzala have not reached the climax stage of primary rain forest with a closed canopy, even as far as 50 km from the nearest savanna. It is argued that they must be of relatively recent origin. Phytogeographically they lie within the large block of semi-evergreen forest of the Guineo-Congolian Region (White 1983). Many tree species recorded at Odzala are widely distributed in this Region, others are restricted to the Lower Guinea sub-region while rather more are confined to the Congo basin sub-region. 
10.2307/3667601|As a result of long-term field observations in Nigeria, the author distinguishes 2 varieties in Irvingia gabonensis (Aubry-Lecomte ex O-Rorke) Baill., namely var. gabonensis and var. excelsa (Mildbr.) Okafor comb. et stat. nov.
10.2307/3668182|Acalypha clutoides Radcl.-Sm. is recorded for the first time from Shaba (Zaire).
10.2307/3668016|Bulbostylis and Abildgaardia are considered as two distinct genera that evolved independently out of a fimbristylidoid stock. The so called intermediate species B. pilosa (Willd.) Cherm. is a genuine Bulbostylis. The key to the Central African species of Bulbostylis is followed by an annotated list of the 46 species observed. New species are: B. fusiformis, B. lineolata, B. longiradiata, B. pseudoperennis, B. trullata; new combinations are: B. flexuosa, B. quaternella.
10.2307/3668007|10 new species of the genus Calycobolus are described. A key of the 25 African species is established.
10.2307/3667866|For the whole of Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi c. 50 species of Bulbostylis could be identified. B. cupricola, B. kanongaensis, B. micromucronata, B. nemoides and B. rumokensis are described as new; B. viridecarinata is a new combination.
10.2307/3668355|The chromosome number for the species of Vigna subgenus Sigmoidotropis (Piper) Verdc. is generally 2n = 22, except for V. peduncularis (H.B.K.) Fawc. & Rendle which presents 2n = 18 chromosomes.
10.2307/3668229|One new subspecies of M. butayei De Wild. from north eastern Zaire is described; the key to the 6 Zairian subspecies is provided, and a new combination is made.
10.2307/3667547| In the most recent revision of the Chrysobalanaceae (Rosaceae-Chrysobalanoideae) at generic level, Focke [12, 56, 58] included two genera, Stylobasium Desf. and Lecostemon (as Lecostomion) with some reservations and suggested that their ture affinity might be with Phytolaccaceae. In an earlier paper [32] the author has given reasons for treating Stylobasium as a unigeneric family in the Sapindales (sensu Engler & Prantl). In the following pages it is shown that Focke, following Bentham, misinterpreted the true Lecostemon of Sess & Moc. ex DC. which is a Sloanea L. (Tiliaceae). Lecostemon sensu Bentham, Focke and most recent authors is the same as Rhabdodendron Gilg & Pilg. which has hitherto been wrongly placed in the Rutaceae. Rhabdodendron is shown to differ from Chrysobalanaceae and Rutaceae in nearly all important features of floral morphology, leaf and stem anatomy and pollen grain structure. In these respects it is closely related to Phytolaccaceae and other families of Centrospermae but sufficiently distinct from them to justify the description of a new family to accommodate it. 
10.2307/3668136| Deux espces nouvelles du genre Impatiens sont dcrites. I. irangiensis, avec des fleurs verdtres, est proche de I. paucidentata et de I. iteberoensis, mais se distingue par la forme des feuilles, du ptale dorsal et du spale infrieur. I. clavicalcar, avec des fleurs jaunes, est proche de I. niamniamensis, mais se distingue par la forme du ptale dorsal, par les ptales latraux plus grands et par l'peron claviforme. I. erecticornis, jusqu' prsent connu seulement du Zare, a t rcolt au Rwanda. I. keilii, connu du Burundi, du Rwanda et de la Tanzanie, a t rcolt pour la premire fois au Zaire. I. paucidentata, jusqu' prsent seulement connu de spcimens d'herbier incomplets, a t retrouv et du matriel vivant a pu tre rtudi. 
10.2307/3668317| A taxonomic revision of subg. Tricalysia sect. Tricalysia (c. 40 species) and sect. Rosea (7 species) is given. The general part gives a survey of the history of the groups concerned, provides general morphological (and some anatomical) information (habit, domatia, colleters, flower and fruit characters, seed-coat anatomy, palynology etc.) and discusses the chorological aspects. The taxonomic part gives keys to and complete treatments of the species (synonymies, descriptions, distributional data, critical notes, etc.). New species are described as well from the rain forests of Gabon and/or Cameroun (T. vadensis, T. amplexicaulis, T. fangana, T. sylvae), Zaire (T. yangambiensis) and Tanzania (T. pedicellata), as from Zambezian vegetation types (Tanzania: T. velutina, T. schliebenii; Zaire/Shaba and/or Zambia: T. repens, T. zambesiaca). Moreover, many new infraspecific taxa are shown to need recognition. Of the many taxonomic changes resulting from the revision, the following are the most noteworthy: the merging of the two Zambezian species T. nyassae and T. myrtifolia into the synonymy of Guineo-Congolian species, resp. T. coriacea and T. pallens and a redefinition of the taxa belonging to the Zambezian T. angolensis and the South African T. capensis complex. /// Une rvision systmatique de Tricalysia subg. Tricalysia sect. Tricalysia (env. 40 espces) et sect. Rosea (7 espces) est donne. La partie gnrale donne un aperu de l'histoire des groupes concerns et des renseignements morphologiques (en partie aussi anatomiques: port, domaties, colletres, structure de la fleur et du fruit, anatomie du tgument sminal, palynologie, etc.) et discute des aspects chorologiques. La partie taxonomique donne les clefs de dtermination et les traitements complets des espces (synonymies, descriptions, distributions, notes critiques, etc.). Des espces nouvelles existent aussi bien dans les forts quatoriales du Gabon et du Cameroun (T. vadensis, T. amplexicaulis, T. fangana, T. sylvae), du Zare (T. yangambiensis) et de Tanzanie (T. pedicellata), que dans des types de vgtation zambziens en Tanzanie (T. velutina, T. schliebenii), au Zare (Shaba) et en Zambie (T. repens, T. zambesiaca). De plus, beaucoup de nouveaux taxons infraspcifiques sont reconnus. Beaucoup de changements taxonomiques rsultent de cette rvision, entre autres la mise en synonymie des espces zambziennes T. nyassae et T. myrtifolia avec les espces guino-congolaises T. 
10.2307/3668460| Among the African Marantaceae, Marantochloa is the genus which has the most numerous infrageneric taxa. This paper is a review of all taxa of the genus Marantochloa. A new species, Marantochloa incertifolia, is described from the "Fort des Abeilles" in Gabon. The revision of the complex Marantochloa congensis (K. Schum.) J. Lonard & Mullenders shows that the var. microphylla is different from the three others; consequently, this variety is raised to species level. A distribution map is given for each taxon. 
10.2307/3668066|The Uapaca guineensis forest is a biotic and edaphic vegetation. Several authors have mentioned its occurrence in the Guineo-Congolian phytogeographic Region. The floristic composition, the biological and phytogeographical spectra and the types of diaspores are analyzed in detail. A few micro-climatic and edaphic data are outlined.
10.2307/3667776| Prsentation sous forme de tableau des Gramines de l'Herbier Wallich prsentes  Calcutta (CAL), avec mention du nom tel qu'il apparait dans la "Wallich numerical list" (1828-1849), le nom cit par J. D. Hooker dans "The Flora of British India 7 (1897)" et la page correspondante, et enfin le nom actuellement admis avec rfrence au rcent ouvrage de N. L. Bor "The Grasses of Burma, Ceylon, India and Pakistan (1960)". 
10.2307/3668231| The new species Crepidorhopalon hepperi from Tanzania and C. laxiflorus from Zaire are described. C. hepperi is related to C. bifolius (Skan) E. Fischer and C. laxiflorus to C. schweinfurthii (Oliver) E. Fischer and C. gracilis (Pilger) E. Fischer. Lindernia perennis Duvigneaud, L. bifolia Skan and uvens Hiern are combined to Crepidorhopalon. /// Les espces nouvelles Crepidorhopalon hepperi de Tanzanie et C. laxiflorus du Zare sont dcrites. C. hepperi est proche de C. bifolius (Skan) E. Fischer et C. laxiflorus est relie  C. schweinfurthii (Oliver) E. Fischer et C. gracilis (Pilger) E. Fischer. Lindernia perennis Duvigneaud, L. bifolia Skan et L. uvens Hiern sont galement rattachs au genre Crepidorhopalon. 
10.2307/3667870|Six new taxa of Bulbophyllum (three belonging to the section Megaclinium) from the African mainland are described and illustrated. Four of them occur in W and Central Africa and are rare or endemic. Two taxa (B. expallidum and B. injoloense var. pseudoxypterum) occur in S Central Africa and are rather common; they are superficially so much like some sympatric and very common other Bulbophyllum species [the former resembles B. schlechteri De Wild. and B. mahoni Rolfe, the latter B. oxypterum (Lindl.) Rchb.f.], that they are not immediately recognizable as different species.
10.2307/3667775|The Hypobathreae is a new tribe of Rubiaceae split from the Gardenieae sensu lato. The latter tribe is shown to remain heterogenous even after transferring many genera to the Coffeeae. The new tribe is divided in two subtribes, Hypobathrinae and Lamprothamninae. The Hypobathrinae are mainly distributed in tropical Asia, where at least eight genera occur: Cowiea, Hypobathrum, Hyptianthera, Morindopsis, Rhadinopus, Scyphostachys, Villaria and Zuccarinia. Madagascar is another centre where the tribe is well represented; there occur Chapeliera, Fernelia, Flagenium and Canephora. The African continent has only one representative, viz. Pouchetia. Amaioua, a South American genus, is tentatively placed here. The most important characters of the Hypobathrinae are found in the fruits: it are drupes with in each of both chambers imbricate seeds pendulous from an apical placenta; correspondingly the embryo has the radicle directed upwards; the fibrous seed-coat consists of linear cells. The Lamprothamninae are confined to tropical Africa (Lamprothamnus, Polysphaeria and Galiniera) and Madagascar (Jovetia, Polysphaeria,? Lemyrea). They have most characters in common with the Hypobathrinae but have fewer ovules (only 1-3 per chamber) and seeds with a ruminated endosperm. The new tribe is placed in the subfamily Ixoroideae and links the Alberteae with Coffeeae and Gardenieae.
10.2307/3667746| Description de deux espces nouvelles, Selaginella auquieri, du Zare, et S. lewalleana, du Rwanda et du Burundi. Toutes deux appartiennent au sous-genre Stachygynandrum (Beauv.) Bak. s.l., et plus particulirement au groupe de S. suberosa de Hieronymus. Elles sont affines entre elles et apparentes  S. blepharophylla Alston. 
10.2307/3668201| The life of Jean-Baptiste Duerinck (1809-1857), a Belgian Jesuit missionary in the middle western United States, is sketched. He collected plants in St. Louis, Missouri and nearby Illinois between 1836 and 1840. Most of his collections were sent to Europe, where they were identified by Martin Martens, professor at the University of Louvain, Belgium. Martens described ten species based on Duerinck specimens and S. B. Buckley, a friend of Duerinck, based one species on the material that Duerinck distributed. These new species are discussed in detail. Several of Duerinck's ethnobotanical observations are presented also. /// La vie de Jean-Baptiste Duerinck (1809-1857), missionnaire belge de la Compagnie de Jsus au "Middle West" des tats-Unis, est esquiss. Duerinck a rcolt des plantes aux environs de St. Louis dans le Missouri et dans l'Illinois avoisinant, entre 1836 et 1840. La plupart de ses chantillons taient envoys en Europe o Martin Martens professeur  l'Universit de Louvain, Belgique, les a identifi. Martens a dcrit dix espces fondes sur des chantillons de Duerinck, et S. B. Buckley, un ami de Duerinck, a dcrit une espce sur le matriel distribu par ce dernier. Ces espces nouvelles sont analyses en dtail. Quelques observations ethnobotaniques de Duerinck sont galement mentionnes. 
10.2307/3668054| Description of the genus, key to the nine species occuring in Zare, Rwanda and Burundi, citation of the examined specimens; three new species are described: D. humilis Lawalre, D. saligna Lawalre and D. oblonga Lawalre & Mvukiyumwami. The other species present in the area are: D. welwitschii O. Hoffm., D. anomala Send., D. plantaginifolia O. Hoffm., D. poggei O. Hoffm., D. anmadochrissa Lawalre and D. auriculata Hutch. & B. L. Burtt. 
10.2307/3667724| La prsence de fleurs fertiles aristes est signale pour la premire fois chez certains individus d'Anthoxanthum nivale K. Schum. lI est tir parti de ce caractre dans une discussion de la position phylognique du genre Anthoxanthum. /// The occurrence of awned fertile florets is reported for the first time in some individuals of Anthoxanthum nivale K. Schum. This character is used in a discussion of the phylogenetic position of the genus Anthoxanthum. 
10.2307/3668468| The genus Maesobotrya Benth. was up to now particularly confused in Zaire. Thanks to studies in the field, thanks to an abundant material (725 specimens collected in Zaire) and thanks to very instructive distribution maps correlated with White's main phytochoria of Africa, it appears that 3 species previously mentioned in Zaire do not exist there (M. barteri, M. bipindensis and M. pauciflora), that 4 species have been confused under the name of M. hirtella (M. bertramiana, M. floribunda, M. vermeulenii and M. villosa) and that 4 other species have been confused under the name of M. staudtii (M. cordulata, M. klaineana, M. longipes and M. staudtii). In conclusion, 11 species and 1 variety of Maesobotrya have been collected up to now in Zaire; amongst these are M. klaineana (Pierre) J. Lonard comb. nov., M. pierlotii J. Lonard sp. nov., M. vermeulenii (De Wild.) J. Lonard comb. nov. and M. villosa (J. Lonard) J. Lonard comb. nov. (including var. lenifolia J. Lonard var. nov.). 
10.2307/3668186| Une nouvelle tude du matriel type d'Amanitopsis pudica Beeli confirme la validit de cette espce, jadis considre comme douteuse par Gilbert (1940). Elle est ici transfre dans le genre Amanita section Amanita pour ses spores ellipsodes et son mode de dveloppement des carpophores. L'espce semble assez commune et typique de la fort claire pour l'Afrique centrale, o elle est souvent associe  des termitires. 
10.2307/3667889| The following Lactuca occur in Zare, Rwanda and/or Burundi: L. stipulata Stebbins; L. paradoxa Schultz-Bip. ex A. Rich.; L. glandulifera Hook. f.; L. attenuata Stebbins; L. schulzeana Bttner; L. ugandensis C. Jeffrey; L. ambacensis (Hiern) C. Jeffrey; L. setosa Stebbins ex C. Jeffrey; L. calophylla C. Jeffrey; L. praecox R. E. Fries; L. songeensis C. Jeffrey; L. capensis Thunb. var. capensis and var. myriocephala Dethier var. nov.; L. zambeziaca C. Jeffrey; L. imbricata Hiern var. imbricata and var. hockii (De Wild.) Dethier comb. nov.; L. tinctociliata I. M. Johnston; L. schweinfurthii Oliv. & Hiern; L. homblei De Wild.; L. longespicata De Wild. Keys, bibliography, synonymy and citation of the examined specimens are provided. 
10.2307/3668013| Description de deux espces nouvelles d'Acanthophyllum (Caryophyllaceae) d'Iran et d'Afghanistan, voisines d'A. squarrosum Boiss.: A. heratense Schiman-Czeika et A. laxiusculum Schiman-Czeika. 
10.2307/3668397| Eagle Island flora has been reassessed in the light of published data: a total of 57 species was recorded in August 1995 while the total number of ever recorded species amounts to 72 i.e. 60% more than the last published inventory by Fosberg et al. (1991). As a matter of fact, 32 species have been added to this last survey. Vegetation has been studied with the aid of 3 transects. Multivariate analyses were carried out on 55 quadrats: 12 vegetation units were recognized and most of them mapped with the aid of aerial photography. Floristic affinities between communities are suggested on the basis of the analysis in question. Vegetation dynamics is outlined and its present steady state or even regressive state is emphasized. /// La flore de la caye de Eagle Island a t rexamine et compare aux inventaires existants: le nombre total d'espces prsentes en aot 1995 atteignait 57, tandis que le nombre total d'espces observes entre 1973 et 1995 arrive  72, soit 60% de plus que la dernire liste publie par Fosberg et al. (1991); en fait, 32 espces ont t ajoutes au dernier inventaire tabli par ces auteurs. La vgtation a t tudie grce  une srie de transects et  55 relevs soumis  une analyse multivarie: 12 units de vgtation ont t distingues et pour la plupart cartographies avec l'aide de la photographie arienne. Les affinits floristiques entre ces communauts vgtales sont suggres sur base des analyses effectues. Enfin la dynamique de la vgtation est esquisse et son caractre actuel apparemment stationnaire ou mme rgressif soulign. 
10.2307/3668440| A second species, Dirachma somalensis D. A. Link sp. nov., of the systematically isolated and highly endangered monogeneric family, the Dirachmaceae, is described. A species delimitation is given and the relationships of the taxon are discussed. /// Eine zweite Art, Dirachma somalensis D. A. Link sp. nov., der systematisch isoliert stehenden und stark vom Aussterben bedrohten monogenerischen Familie der Dirachmaceae wird beschrieben. Darber hinaus werden die von D. socotrana abweichenden Merkmale aufgefhrt sowie die Verwandtschaftsverhltnisse der Sippe diskutiert. 
10.2307/3667402| Pyrola media Sw. a t trouv en 1970  Hachiville, dans le nord-ouest du Grand-Duch de Luxembourg prs de la frontire belge. Cette station prolonge l'aire eiflienne de l'espce; elle en prsente les caractristiques climatiques, orographiques et cologiques. L'espce y est donc indigne et doit tre recherche en divers endroits du territoire belgo-luxembourgeois. 
10.2307/3668319| This investigation of the morphology of pollen tetrads under the light and scanning electron microscopes deals with four ericaceous taxa of the south Indian hills: Gaultheria fragrantissima Wall., Rhododendron nilagiricum Zenk., Vaccinium leschenaultii Wight and V. neilgherrense Wight. Their common and differentiating features are described and discussed under the headings tetrad configurations, viscin threads of Rhododendron, aperture complex, exine surface patterns, exine structure and endocracks. Because of its value as a paleoecological indicator in the study of montane grassland evolution in south Indian hills, the pollen morphology of R. nilagiricum is discussed in special detail. /// Cette tude, ralise au microscope photonique et au microscope lectronique  balayage, concerne 4 taxons d'Ericaceae des montagnes du sud de l'Inde: Gaultheria fragrantissima Wall., Rhododendron nilagiricum Zenk., Vaccinium leschenaultii Wight et V. neilgherrense Wight. Les similarits et les diffrences entre ces pollens sont tudies sous les titres suivants: configurations des ttrades, filaments de viscine, structure de l'aperture, aspects extrieurs de l'exine, structure de l'exine et craquelures internes. La morphologie pollinique de R. nilagiricum fait l'objet d'une description dtaille  cause de la valeur de cette espce comme indicateur palocologique dans l'tude de l'volution des savanes des montagnes du sud de l'Inde. 
10.2307/3667962|In the present revision of Uebelinia Hochst. 6 species and 4 subspecies are recognized, including one new combination (U. kiwuensis subsp. erlangeriana) and one new subspecies (U. kigesiensis subsp. ragazziana). Accounts are given for the history, morphology, palynology, taxonomy, and distribution. Chromosome numbers are reported for two species for the first time (U. abyssinica: 2 n = 24; U. crassifolia: 2 n = 48).
10.2307/3667759| The chromosome number of Vigna candida (Vellozo) Marchal, Mascherpa & Stainier was determined as 2n=18, being the first report of this number for the genus Vigna (2n = 20, 22 and 24). The low frequency of reports of 2n=18 in the tribe Phaseoleae and in the family Leguminosae is reviewed. This finding reinforces the importance of structural alterations in the evolution of the genus Vigna. 
10.2307/3667591|Description of the first African species of the moss genus Physcomitrella: P. magdalenae sp. nov., collected by the author in Rwanda.
10.2307/3668268| Stamen-petal complexes or Common Stamen-petal Primordia (CSP) have been interpreted differently in the past, either as the result of ddoublement of a single phyllome, either as an insertion of secondary primordia on primary primordia, or as the result of congenital fusion. The scattered distribution of CSP on the Dahlgrenogram of the Magnoliatae demonstrates a restricted systematic value. The CSP can be interpreted as resulting from a gradual variation in the positional relationship between two primordia, which appear as congenitally fused. A distinction can be made between an ontogenetic regression of petal primordia and a phylogenetic regression which is ontogenetically observed as a splitting. The latter process is best described as negative ddoublement. 
10.2307/3667854|Revision of the genus Neuropeltis Wall. in Zaire, Gabon and Cameroun: three new species are described and a key is provided.
10.2307/3667937| Une espce nouvelle du genre Hemitrichia est dcrite. Elle est caractrise par le grand diamtre des spores qui sont pourvues d'un reticulum suspensum. Ce n'est que la troisime espce de myxomyctes o on a trouv une telle ornementation. 
10.2307/3667616| Etude au microscope lectronique  balayage Cambridge stereoscan Mark II de quelques particularits de la surface de Cladonia floerkeana (Fr.) Sommerf. 
10.2307/3668442|The genus Rauvolfia L. contains 7 species indigenous in continental Africa, and 3 other species are confined to Madagascar. None of these ten species occur in the wild outside their region of occurrence. The present revision monographes the species based on examination of herbarium material and living plants of six of the continental African species. The genus belongs to the subtribe Rauvolfiinae of the tribe Alyxieae.
10.2307/3667416|Description of a new species, Oedogonium demaretianum, and of two new forms, Scenedesmus perforatus f. bicaudatus and Mougeotia laetevirens f. tenuis; establishment of some new combinations and names for green algae collected in lake Chad and in surrounding areas.
10.2307/3667818| Parmi les 6 chantillons du genre Metzgeria, rcolts par le Frre M. Onraedt  Sri Lanka, 5 reprsentent des espces nouvelles pour cette le. 
10.2307/3668459|Two new species of Dacryodes from the mountain rain forests of eastern Zaire (Kivu) are described: D. leonardiana Pierlot and D. bampsiana Pierlot. The high degree of endemism in the region is consequently once more confirmed.
10.2307/3668167|Description of one new species of Adenia from Burundi, and of six new species of Basananthe from Shaba, Zaire.
10.2307/3668278|Brothera leana was found in the Mulanje Mountains, Malawi, in southern tropical Africa. This locality is the first one known from the southern hemisphere. Hitherto Brothera was considered to be a typical representative of the eastern Asian - eastern North American distribution pattern.
10.2307/3668279| A milestone in the history of African botany was the publication in 1983 (French translation 1986) of a new vegetation map of Africa and its accompanying descriptive memoir. They were sponsored by UNESCO and compiled by members of AETFAT (Association pour l'Etude Taxonomique de la Flore d'Afrique Tropicale). The most original feature of the map is that the vegetation types are depicted within a regional chorological framework. This represents a major departure from previous classifications of vegetation. In the following account, the distinctive features of this new approach to chorology are briefly summarized. The way in which the AETFAT system evolved from earlier work is also described against a wider chorological background. Facts are presented which show how the rationale underlying the chorological classification has been confirmed since its publication, and how the classification has been used by workers in several scientific disciplines inside Africa, and also by botanists in other continents. In the light of the AETFAT experience, chorological methods in general are discussed, and some suggestions are made for future work. In the final chapter some basic concepts and terminology are discussed and defined. /// La publication, en 1983, d'une nouvelle carte de vgtation de l'Afrique et du mmoire qui l'accompagnait (version anglaise en 1983, version franaise en 1986) a marqu un jalon important dans l'histoire de la botanique africaine. Ce travail a bnfici du soutien financier de l'UNESCO et de la collaboration de divers membres de l'AETFAT (Association pour l'Etude Taxonomique de la Flore d'Afrique Tropicale). La grande originalit de la carte rside dans la reprsentation des types de vgtation au sein d'un cadre chorologique rgional, ce qui la diffrencie essentiellement des classifications antrieures de la vgtation. Le prsent article donne un aperu des traits caractristiques de cette nouvelle approche associant chorologie et tude de la vgtation. L'volution des conceptions de l'AETFAT depuis les premiers travaux s'est effectue dans un contexte chorologique plus large et plus dtaill. L'auteur montre comment les nouvelles bases de cette classification chorologique ont t confirmes dans les faits depuis 1983; de plus, cette classification a t adopte par certains scientifiques dans d'autres disciplines en Afrique et galement par certains botanistes dans d'autres continents. Au vu de l'exprience de l'AETFAT, les mthodes chorologiques sont examines dans un contexte plus gnral et diverses suggestions sont avances en vue de travaux ultrieurs. Dans le dernier chapitre sont expliqus certains concepts de base et diffrents termes utiliss. 
10.2307/3668165|Saba (Pichon) Pichon is a genus of Apocynaceae restricted to tropical Africa. A key is given for the 3 species, while the varieties are no longer recognized.
10.2307/3668295|The genus Carphalea comprises ten species. Three (including the newly described C. somaliensis) occur on the African mainland, one in Socotra. The remaining six are endemic to Madagascar; they are dealt with in detail. Data from morphology, anatomy (leaf and node, flower, fruit, seed), karyology, palynology and reproductive biology are provided for selected Madagascan and African taxa. Attention is drawn to the brightly coloured, enlarged ("petaloid") calyx lobes which at first play an important role as optical attractants for pollinators and later aid in the wind dispersal of the indehiscent fruits. The corolla and pollen dimorphism, associated with the heterostyly in the genus, is documented. The relationships within Carphalea and to its presumably closest ally, the monotypic genus Placopoda (endemic to Socotra) are discussed. Palynological data of Placopoda are also provided. Arguments and evidence are provided for the abolition of the tribe Cruckshanksieae, into which Carphalea, Cruckshanksia, Anotis and Jackiopsis (syn. Jackia) had been placed. The said genera, except for Jackiopsis, are to be included in the Hedyotideae.
10.2307/3668131|In the 'Flora of Libya' (1976-1990), mention is made of the existence, in the Jebel Uweinat at the border between Libya, Egypt and Sudan, of 20 species based only on specimens collected by L. Boulos in 1968. None of these species is mentioned in the list of the species from Jebel Uweinat published in 1982 by L. Boulos himself (Candollea 37: 270-275). In fact, these specimens have been collected in various parts of Libya, some very far from the Jebel Uweinat (as far as 1000 km!). A list of these 20 species is given with the accurate places of gathering. These corrections are necessary to avoid a wrong chorological spectrum of the ca. 100 species known from Jebel Uweinat.
10.2307/3668088|Description of the plant communities noticed on the upper shore (ass. with Alternanthera maritima), on the white dunes (ass. with Sporobolus spicatus, ass. with Scaevola plumieri, ass. with Schizachyrium pulchellum), on dry fixed coastal sands (thickets with Chrysobalanus icaco subsp. icaco, Aristida sieberana savannah), in dune slacks, in depressions covered with silty sands (ass. with Sesuvium portulacastrum, ass. with Kyllinga peruviana). Ecological data and phytogeographical considerations.
10.2307/3667886| A new section Ephedranthera of subgenus Tricalysia is erected. Its species have the anthers sessile in the throat and thus partly included in the corolla-tube. Two flower-forms occur: the style-lobes are either exserted or deeply included in the corolla-tube. This floral organization does not correspond with the heterodistyly common in Rubiaceae-Rubioideae, and is discussed in the general part, together with morphological, some anatomical, palynological and chorological aspects. Section Ephedranthera comprises two well-known species: T. acocantheroides and T. longituba. Two novelties come from the Afromontane region: T. aciculiflora (Tanzania) and T. vanroechoudtii (Zaire-Kivu, Burundi & Uganda) -- the latter already in 1932 obscurely described in Coffea. Two other new species are described from the Indian Ocean coastal belt (T. elegans & T. allocalyx), where several more novelties exist but remain inadequately collected. /// Ephedranthera, une section nouvelle du sous-genre Tricalysia, est tablie. Ses espces possdent des anthres sessiles dans la gorge et donc partiellement incluses dans le tube de la corolle. Les lobes du style sont soit exserts soit profondment inclus dans le tube de la corolle. Cette organisation florale ne correspond pas avec l'htrodistylie commune des Rubiaceae-Rubioideae et est discute dans la partie gnrale, ainsi que certaines donnes morphologiques, anatomiques, palynologiques et chorologiques. La section comprend deux espces bien connues: T. acocantheroides et T. longituba. De plus, deux nouveauts proviennent de la rgion afromontagnarde: T. aciculiflora (Tanzanie) et T. vanroechoudtii (Zare-Kivu, Burundi et Uganda); dj en 1932, cette dernire espce tait dcrite de faon nbuleuse dans le genre Coffea. Enfin, deux autres espces nouvelles sont dcrites de la rgion ctire de l'Ocan Indien (T. elegans & T. allocalyx), o existent plusieurs autres nouveauts qui restent insuffisamment rcoltes. 
10.2307/3668375|A second species in the African genus Utsetela is described.
10.2307/3668428| Cette deuxime partie comprend l'tude des dicotyldones signales au Jebel Uweinat, classes par ordre alphabtique de familles, des Aizoaceae aux Moraceae. Outre des clefs d'espces, les donnes suivantes sont indiques pour chaque espce: les rfrences bibliographiques mentionnant des chantillons rcolts  Uweinat, la citation des spcimens rcolts par l'auteur, l'habitat, la frquence, les altitudes auxquelles elle a t rencontre, le type biologique, l'apptibilit, ainsi que la distribution gographique dtaille. /// This second part includes the study of the dicotyledons of the Jebel Uweinat, presented by alphabetical order of the families, from the Aizoaceae to the Moraceae. Besides specific keys, the following data are given for each species: the bibliographical references quoting specimens collected at Uweinat, the list of specimens collected by the author, the habitat, the frequency, the altitudes where it has been observed, the biological type, the palatability and the detailed geographical distribution. 
10.2307/3667799|The study of the type specimens of Bryum cernuum (Hedw.) B. S. G. hom. illeg. and Bryum uliginosum (Brid.) B. S. G. and of the literature allows the authors: 10 to designate the types among the heterogenous type material, 20 to distinguish the two species, by comparing the type material and the illustration, 30 to give a survey of the confusions remaining up to the present day in the literature, 40 to establish the systematic position of the two taxa.
10.2307/3667490| Thirty four species, all collected in Upper Shaba, are reported for the first time from Zare. 
10.2307/3667486|Description of a new species of Quararibea from Panama: Q. jefensis A. Robyns & S. Nilsson sp. nov, with notes on the pollen morphology.
10.2307/3667918| On dmontre que Neorosea N. Hall est synonyme de Tricalysia A. Rich., puisque l'espce-type Neorosea jasminiflora (Klotzsch) N. Hall est un vrai Tricalysia. Les autres espces places dans Neorosea par N. Hall appartiennent  un genre nouveau: Sericanthe. 15 espces (2 nouvelles) et 13 taxons infraspcifiques nouveaux) sont reconnus. Une partie gnrale contient des donnes morphologiques, anatomiques et palynologiques. 
10.2307/3668372|A new species of Protomegabaria Hutch. is described. It is a small tree growing in the transitional forests of eastern Zaire between 930-1200 m. The area to this guineo-congolian genus, extending from Sierra Leone to Gabon and Congo, is therefore much enlarged to the east. The history of the genus, somewhat complicate, is summarized.
10.2307/3668273| We have observed in the forest of the Salonga National Park (Zare), a plant which was at first determined as Aframomum melegueta (Roscoe) K. Schum. After further examination, it was found different and described as a new species, A. singulariflorum. 
10.2307/3668153| The forest association with Celtis mildbraedii and Gambeya lacourtiana is described in the Kikwit region. A phytosociological table is presented, analysed and interpreted using various floristico-ecological spectra (systematic, biological, diaspores types, phytochorological as well as ecological groups). The various analyses reveal the importance of some groups: Ulmaceae, Sterculiaceae, Marantaceae, Caesalpiniaceae, msophanrophytes, sarcochores and Congolian basin species. From a dynamic point of view, this forest is a climax association in the Kikwit area. 
10.2307/3668456| Description of the seedlings of a species of the African genus Eurypetalum Harms (E. batesii Baker f.), the seedlings of which were unknown. These are epigeal, with no appendix at the collar and with the cotyledons clearly above the ground, provided at their inner base with a fringe of curious filiform appendages. The first 2 leaves are alternate. The seedlings of 43 African genera belonging to the tribes Detarieae and Amherstieae are henceforth known. Those of the following 8 African genera of these two tribes remain still unknown: Augouardia Pellegr., Englerodendron Harms, Librevillea Hoyle, Loesenera Harms, Michelsonia Hauman, Neochevalierodendron J. Lonard, Oddoniodendron De Wild. and Polystemonanthus Harms. 
10.2307/3667833|Oxalis barrelieri L., a species hitherto not yet mentioned from Zaire, is rapidly expanding in the north-eastern part of this country. A description and the distribution in Zaire are given, together with a descriptive key of all species of Oxalis occurring in this country.
10.2307/3668302|Spore studies of Xerocomaceae, using the S.E.M., reveal that spores which have always been considered as being smooth, are often ornamented. As far as we know, the two main ornamentation types, the bacillate one and the venose one, seem to be restricted to the Xerocomaceae. Although the differences with the very faintly striate spores of some Boletellus species are not obvious in L.M., the S.E.M. shows the ornamentation as being of a fundamentally different nature, the striae being formed by grooves in the spore wall. Our observations are based on 19 species of Phylloporus, 4 of Tubosaeta, 48 of Xerocomus and 2 of Boletellus.
10.2307/3667720|The first notification is given on the occurrence of Trichomanes lenormandii v. d. Bosch in continental Africa (Tanzania, Usambara Mts.). Key characters and geographical distribution of this species are discussed.
10.2307/3668401|The Malaysian genus Porterandia was erected for a number of species of the former Randia complex; later, a number of African Randias were also included. A close comparison (morphology, palynology, seed-coat anatomy) between the African and the Malaysian taxa shows that the African species can no longer be associated with the genus Porterandia. A new African genus, Aoranthe, is recognized comprising five species, for which the necessary new combinations are provided. The position of Porterandia (s.s.) in the Gardenieae-Gardeniinae is confirmed. The position of Aoranthe is more doubtful; the genus is tentatively included in the Isertieae.
10.2307/3668249| Description d'une nouvelle espce de Diospyros, D. rabiensis, en provenance du Gabon. 
10.2307/3668076| Bryum brotherianum Demaret (1949) [B. usambaricum Broth. (1913)] is not synonymous with B. coronatum Schwaegr., as stated recently by Ochi. B. usambaricum (1895), however, is synonymous with B. coronatum. Bryum oeneum Blytt ex B. S. G. is not synonymous with B. rutilans Brid., as stated by C. Mller. 
10.2307/3668149|In November 1984, algae and plankton samples were collected from 24 localities around lake of Guiers and in the lower course of the Senegal River (northern Senegal, West Africa). About 650 species and infraspecific taxa of algae were observed in the samples, among which the diatoms represent almost half of the flora (48.8%) whereas the green algae amount to 27.7% (including 10.6% for the desminds), the blue-greens to 14.5% and all the other groups together to 9%. A new species, Lepocinclis senegalensis, and a new form, Strombomonas lageniformis f. minor, are described in the Euglenophyceae; new combinations are proposed in the genera Spirocoleus (Cyanophyceae), Fragilaria (Diatomophyceae), Euastrum and Staurastrum (Desmidiaceae).
10.2307/3668187|A revision is made of the Rothmannia material from Cameroun at BR, BRLU, P and YA. Eleven species are reported from the country. A short general part informs on the history of the genus and on phenological data. The taxonomic part contains descriptions, ecological and chorological data (with a map of the reported distribution of each species in Cameroun) and, for a few species, critical remarks.
10.2307/3668462| Volvolepiota ne diffre de Macrolepiota que par la prsence d'une volve en sac  la base du stipe. Une description complte de l'espce type V. brunnea est fournie ainsi que des commentaires sur V. albida et un synopsis comparant les deux espces. V. brunnea prsente un collarium adn, caractristique indite (fig. 1b). 
10.2307/3667965|The pollen grains of the five African species of Hymenocardia have been examined. This represents the first scanning electron micrographical study of the pollen of the genus. Hymenocardia pollen proves to be stenopalynous. The results are compared with the literature on Hymenocardia pollen, wherein contradictory observations existed. The wood anatomy of three species of Hymenocardia (viz. H. acida, H. ripicola and H. ulmoides) has been examined. The wood of the three species is distinguishable, mainly by the heigth of the rays. Also the length of the fibers differs, what may possibly be connected with ecological factors. The palynological and wood anatomical study does not provide additional criteria to distinguish between subgen. Hymenocardia and subgen. Parahymenocardia.
10.2307/3668403|A detailed documentation of Didymosalpinx parviflora, endemic to Nigeria and Cameroun, including general morphology, hair anatomy, pollen morphology etc., is provided. It demonstrates that the species can not be retained in Didymosalpinx (Gardenieae-Gardeniinae) but needs a new genus in the Gardenieae-Diplosporinae. Petitiocodon is compared with the other African genera of the Diplosporinae.
10.2307/3667768|A thin layer chromatography method was adapted to analyse small amounts of dessicated fungi extracts. New or little studied species from Africa belonging to the genus Paxillus (family of Paxillaceae, Boletineae) were compared to reference species from Europe belonging, for the most, to the same genus.
10.2307/3667595|Mildbraed's itinerary and collecting localities during his first expedition in Central Africa (1907-1908).
10.2307/3667921|Three species are recognized for the genus Piliostigma Hochst. The presence of levorotatory tartaric acid in leaves and pods has been established for two of them and may be expected for the third species. This product is unknown in other plant material.
10.2307/3667941|A thorough search of all desmid literature was carried out to determine which taxa could be included in the genus Bourrellyodesmus (Zygnemaphyceae). Thereafter, herbarium specimens of some of these taxa were examined to conclude that the following five are good Bourrellyodesmus species: B. excrescens, B. heimii, B. jolyanus, B. spechtii, and B. sumatranus. The genus was circumscribed to include all biradiate (elliptic or compressed in vertical view) forms furnished with a single spine on each side of the semicells (monospinous), and with a pattern of ornamentation made up of granules or a tubercle protruding about in the center of the semicells. The limits between Bourrellyodesmus and the desmid genera Staurodesmus, Raphidiastrum (= Staurastrum p.p.), Xanthidium, and Spinocosmarium were drawn out, and a key was presented for the identification of the five species of Bourrellyodesmus recognized in the present study. Finally, all other species previously alloted to Arthrodesmus sect. Ornatae and which were presently not transferred to Bourrellyodesmus were considered, in an attempt to define their actual taxonomic position.
10.2307/3667708| The study of the meiosis, pollen and seed fertility in the hybrid species Helianthemum  sulphureum has showed that point mutations are the most important factor responsible of the speciation of the parent species, H. nummularium and H. apenninum. The hybrid is sufficiently fertile for increasing the variability in the mixed populations. 
10.2307/3668168|Descriptions or diagnoses are presented for 19 new species and one new variety of Russula; new combinations are proposed for two Russula and three Lactarius, and for one Russula a new name is proposed.
10.2307/3668177| The distinctions between the genera Argomuellera Pax and Pycnocoma Benth. are mentioned. Argomuellera comprises 11 species, 5 of which occur in continental Africa and 6 are known in Madagascar and the Comoro Islands. Two species are present in central Africa: A. macrophylla Pax, a linking species widely distributed in tropical Africa, and A. pierlotiana J. Lonard sp. nov., a Guineo-Congolian species endemic in the oriental dense forests of Zaire between 800-1000 m. The distribution maps of these two species in central Africa are given. 
10.2307/3667727| Pseudephemerum nitidum (= P. laxifolium syn. nov.) is new for Rwanda and Madagascar. The features of the calyptra given in the original description of Bryohumbertia metzlerelloides, a new record for Rwanda and Burundi, are incorrect and this genus is nearer to Campylopus than to Atractylocarpus. Eucladium verticillatum is new for Zare and Rwanda. Streptopogon calymperes is new for continental Africa; S. erythrodontus var. rutenbergii (= S. stenophyllus syn. nov.) is very variable; the african species of Streptopogon are keyed. Ptychomitrium is a new genus for La Runion and a key is given for the tropical african species. Rhachithecium perpusillum is recorded from Burundi. Lindigia hildebrandtii is a new synonym of L. africana. Distichophyllum rigidicaule var. gabonense is in East Zare. Nine of the species are illustrated. 
10.2307/3668286| Ocotea usambarensis Engl., or East African camphor, is a valuable indigenous tree in Tanzania, and is confined to the high mountains of Africa. In this paper ten polypore species (Basidiomycetes) are reported from the West Usambara Mountains, northeastern Tanzania: Ganoderma australe (Fr.) Pat., Loweporus inflexibilis (Berk.) Ryv., L. roseoalbus (Jungh.) Ryv., Phellinus allardii (Bres.) Ryv., P. apiahynus (Speg.) Rajchenb. & Wright, P. gilvus (Schw.) Pat., P. senex (Nees & Mont.) Imaz., Spongipellis pachyodon (Pers.) Kotl. & Pouz., Trametes versicolor (Fr.) Pilt and Wrightoporia avellanea (Bres.) Pouz. They were growing either on old, living camphor trees, on stumps, or on dead, fallen trunks. These fungi are here reported for the first time on Ocotea usambarensis. Some ecological and pathological notes are given. Spongipellis pachyodon and Phellinus apiahynus are new to Africa. Loweporus inflexibilis and Phellinus apiahynus are the most harmful decay-causing polypores of Ocotea. 
10.2307/3667780|The genus Ganoderma is subdivided into 4 subgenera: Ganoderma, Elfvingia Imazeki, Anamixoderma Steyaert subgen. nov. and Plecoderma Steyaert subgen. nov. Subgen. Ganoderma is further divided into 2 sections: Ganoderma and Characoderma Steyaert sect. nov. The following taxa are described: G. curtisii (Berk.) Murrill, G. ravenelii Steyaert sp. nov., G. tsugae Murrill, G. multiplicatum (Mont.) Pat. and var. vitalii Steyaert, G. oregonense Murrill and G. rothwellii Steyaert sp. nov. in subgen. Ganoderma sect. Ganoderma; G. oerstedii (Fries) Torrend and G. subfornicatum Murrill in subgen. Ganoderma sect. Characoderma; G. amazonense Weir in subgen. Plecoderma; G. lobatum (Schw.) Atk. and G. lobatoideum Steyaert sp. nov. in subgen. Anamixoderma. The Ganoderma resinaceum and G. parvulum complexes are described, and the distribution of some Ganoderma species is discussed. Ganoderma neglectum Pat. is excluded from the genus Ganoderma.
10.2307/3667873| Les travaux antrieurs signalent neuf espces de Ceropegia du Shaba. La prsente tude fait passer leur nombre  seize, dont trois nouvelles. Ces nouveaux taxons sont dcrits et illustrs. Use clef de dterminaton des Ceropegia du Shaba est fournie. La valeur taxonomique de la morphologie du fruit est prcise. /// Previous works indicate the presence of nine Ceropegia species in Shaba. The present study raises this number to sixteen, three of which were previously unknown. These new taxa are described and illustrated. A key of the Ceropegia from Shaba is provided. The taxonomic value of fruit morphology is discussed. 
10.2307/3668291|Bryowijkia madagassa from North Madagascar resembles B. ambigua (Hook.) Nog. from continental Southeast Asia, but the plants are olive green, more slender, densely branched, the median cells of the branch leaves are less strongly ornamented, and the leaf border is marginal instead of being intramarginal. The distribution of Bryowijkia is discussed.
10.2307/3668154|3 new species and one subspecies of the genus Syngonanthus (Eriocaulaceae) are described. A key of the taxa of central Africa is established.
10.2307/3667978| Four new species of Hymenocoleus are described: H. nervopilosus (with var. nervopilosus in Liberia and Ivory coast and var. orientalis in Cameroun and Gabon), H. glaber (Cameroun), H. globulifer (Cameroun, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Congo) and H. axillaris (Cameroun and Congo). Two Uragoga species are transferred to Hymenocoleus: H. scaphus (K. Schum.) Robbrecht and H. subipecacuanha (K. Schum.) Robbrecht. For the other species additional localities are given; they are used for the drawing of distribution maps published in Distr. Pl. Afr. A revised key to the species is given. Three sections are proposed: Hymenocoleus, Gynandrocryptus Robbrecht and Solenocalyx Robbrecht. /// Quatre espces nouvelles de Hymenocoleus sont dcrites: H. nervopilosus (avec var. nervopilosus au Liberia et en Cte d'Ivoire et var. orientalis au Cameroun et au Gabon), H. glaber (Cameroun), H. globulifer (Cameroun, Guine quatoriale, Gabon et Congo) et H. axillaris (Cameroun et Congo). Deux espces d'Uragoga sont transfres au genre Hymenocoleus: H. scaphus (K. Schum.) Robbrecht et H. subipecacuanha (K. Schum.) Robbrecht. Pour les autres espces, l'auteur cite des localits additionnelles, portes sur les cartes de distribution, publies dans Distr. Pl. Afr. Une nouvelle cl des espces est donne. Trois sections sont proposes: Hymenocoleus, Gynandrocryptus Robbrecht et Solenocalyx Robbrecht. 
10.2307/3667783|Distribution records in tropical Africa are given for 15 species and 1 variety of Embelia Burm f., for 5 species and 2 varieties of Maesa Forssk., and for 2 species of Rapanea Aubl. One new variety is described: Embelia welwitschii (Hiern) K. Schum. var. grandiflora Taton; a new combination is established: Maesa lanceolata Forssk. var. rufescens (A. DC.) Taton (M. rufescens A. DC.). Taxonomic comments concerning the genus Rapanea in central Africa are given. Distribution maps of all species will be published in Distributiones Plantarum Africanarum 20 (1980).
10.2307/3668087|The savanna plants of the genus Aframomum are reviewed and it is concluded that there is only one widespread species in Africa. A description and synonymy are provided and variation is described.
10.2307/3668333| Les 14 espces africaines du genre Newtonia sont passes en revue et parmi celles-ci deux sont dcrites comme nouvelles. Une cl de dtermination de toutes ces espces est propose. /// The 14 African species of the genus Newtonia are reviewed and among them two are described as new. A key for the determination of all these species is given. 
10.2307/3668051| Calea urticifolia (Miller) DC. (Asteraceae-Heliantheae-Galinsoginae), indigenous in Central America, from Mexico to Panama, has been introduced in Zare where it may become an agressive shrubby weed. It has been also introduced in other countries of tropical Africa. 
10.2307/3667924|The pantropical tribe Phaseoleae (90 genera and about 1500 species) is traditionaly divided into six or seven subtribes, based on organographic criteria. A critical study of non-organographic data, at the generic level, with new results in some fields (chorology, palynology, dermology, blastology and chemistry of flavonoids), has resulted in a " choro-ecological " hypothesis dividing the Phaseoleae in a subtribe (Glycininae) with forest tendancy, and two more evolved subtribes, adapted to savanna: Phaseolinae and Cajaninae.
10.2307/3667598| Four new species are described: Volvariella acystidiata, V. congolensis, V. striata and V. mammosa, all from Zare. An extended study, with colour plates, of these species will appear in " Flore Illustre des Champignons d'Afrique centrale 4 ". 
10.2307/3668407|A detailed study of D. globosum Pers., D. crustaceum Peck and D. spumarioides (Fr.) Fr. is carried out, based mainly on the collections of NY. Special attention is paid to microscopical features; all species, including D. cinereum Morg., D. cingulatum Nann.-Brem., D. subviridifuscum sp. nov. and D. globosum var. europaeum var. nov. are fully described and clearly and extensively illustrated. D. scabrum Eliass. & Nann.-Brem. and D. rimosum Eliass. & Nann.-Brem. are considered synonymous with resp. D. spumarioides and D. cingulatum. A neotype is designated for D. globosum and D. spumarioides.
10.2307/3668287|Description of 3 new rubiaceous taxa for Flora Zambesiaca: Virectaria major (K. Schum.) Verdc. subsp. decumbens Verdc. (Virectarieae), Pseudomussaenda mozambicensis Verdc. (Isertieae), and Rytigynia torrei Verdc. (Vanguerieae).
10.2307/3668141| Mareyopsis oligogyna est la seconde espce de ce genre de l'Afrique tropicale. La position taxonomique du genre est rexamine aprs sa runion rcente avec le genre Mareya par Webster. La nouvelle espce est illustre et sa distribution est donne. Mareya acuminata est plac dans la synonymie de Necepsia afzelii. 
10.2307/3668246| Conceveiba leptostachys est la deuxime espce de ce genre amricain dcrite de l'Afrique tropicale. Son aire est plus grande que celle de C. macrostachys, la premire espce africaine, et comprend le Gabon et le Cameroun. 
10.2307/3667766|Four new taxa (3 species of Anisopappus and 1 subspecies of Nicolasia coronata) are described from Zaire.
10.2307/3667459|Pancratium parvicoronatum Geerinck, a new Amaryllid for the zairian flora. -- Description of a new species, only once collected in the High-Katanga.
10.2307/3667565| Bolbitius acer, Conocybe bicolor, C. cartilaginipes, C. obscurus, C. raphanaceus, C. mixtus et C. ochraceodiscus, Agrocybe carneobrunneus, A. elegantior et A. ochraceobrunneus sont dcrits comme nouveaux. Les nouvelles combinaisons suivantes sont proposes: Conocybe ealaensis et Agrocybe bokotensis. 
10.2307/3668018|Description of Lactuca corymbosa, L. malaissei and L. marunguensis, new species collected in Zaire.
10.2307/3668196|One alliance, eighteen associations and one sub-association are described from Kisangani and Tshopo administrative areas. The paper is a summary of an unpublished paper (Lubini 1982). For each syntaxon, a type-vegetation releve is given, as well as the main features concerning life-forms, phytogeographical groups, diaspores and ecological types.
10.2307/3667767|After a study of the lectotypes of Bryum pallens Sw. and B. pallens var. fallax (Milde) Jur., this variety can not been retained.
10.2307/3668072|The authors point out the existence of tuberous roots in Rhoicissus tridentata, a fact already known for the other genera of Vitaceae occuring in tropical Africa. The abormal secondary structure observed in the tuberous roots is similar to those described for diverse stems of Vitaceae. The probable role of these organs in the water economy of the plant is compared with the existence of water reservoirs in other creepers of the Vitaceae.
10.2307/3667925| Dans cette liste sont numrs les spcimens types et le matriel original se rapportant  des espces dcrites par V. Mouton et qui sont dposs dans l'herbier du Jardin botanique national de Belgique (BR)  Meise. Cette liste renferme galement des indications d'une part sur les publications et annotations de spcialistes qui ont revu le matriel, d'autre part sur la prsence de doubles dans l'herbier Saccardo (PAD). 
10.2307/3667946| The study of the literature, of the type specimens and of other herbarium material of Bryum acuminatum var. pulchellum Bruch & Schimp., Webera commutata Schimp. and Bryum drummondii C. Mll. identified by Bruch, Schimper and C. Mller allows the authors: 1 to distinguish among the specimens identified as Pohlia drummondii (C. Mll.) Andrews, 4 distinct taxa: P. minor Schwaegr. var pulchella (Hoppe & Hornsch.) Demaret & Wilczek comb. nov., P. drummondii (C. Mll.) Andrews, P. commutata (Schimp.) Lindb. and P. nudicaulis (Lesq.) Broth.; 2 to designate lectotypes for Pohlia drummondii and P. commutata; and 3 to identify among the studied material, the specimens filed under Drummond 263, of which the heterogeneity remained up to the present day a source of confusion. 
10.2307/3668342| The study of the germination, seedling morphology and wood anatomy of the East African species Scorodophloeus fischeri confirm the transfer of Cynometra fischeri (Taub.) Bak.f. to Scorodophloeus as suggested by J. Lonard (1951). Comparisons of these features between Scorodophloeus and the related genera Zenkerella and Cynometra reveal differences as regards seedling morphology and wood anatomy. The distribution of S. fischeri is mapped according to the specimens studied and the species is for the first time reported from Mozambique. 
10.2307/3668340|Description of 17 new taxa in the genera Angraecum Bory (2 species), Diaphananthe Schlechter (1 species), Eulophia R.Br. ex Lindley (9 species and 1 variety), Habenaria Willd. (1 species and 1 variety) and Tridactyle Schlechter (1 species and 1 variety).
10.2307/3668132| Le genre Xanthocercis (Leguminosae-Papilionoideae, tribu Sophoreae) n'tait connu que par deux espces: X. madagascariensis H. Baill., endmique de Madagascar, et X. zambesiaca (Bak.) Dumaz-le-Grand, de rpartition assez large en Afrique continentale. Une troisime espce, en provenance du Gabon, est dcrite sous le nom de Xanthocercis rabiensis van der Maesen. 
10.2307/3667865|In a review of the taxonomical history of Fimbristylis, Abildgaardia and Bulbostylis, the value of the commonly used generic criteria is discussed. Leaf sheath orifice hairs, fruit wall characteristics and style base persistence seem to be the most practically useful characters. Keys to the 3 genera, the 3 species of Abildgaardia and the 19 species of Fimbristylis are given. Each species is provided with synonyms, a short diagnostic description, some distributional and ecological notes. F. fibrillosa is newly described.
10.2307/3667878|Malouetia A.DC. is a genus mainly occuring in S. America. A key is given for the 4 African species, among which a new species, M. barbata, is described from Cameroun, and a new combination is proposed.
10.2307/3667843|Description of three new Leguminous species from Western Zaire: Gilbertiodendron breynei, Monopetalanthus breynei and M. evrardii; detailed description of Gilbertiodendron stipulaceum (fruits for the first time included); descriptive keys for both genera are given for the flora of Zaire.
10.2307/3667798|Description of a new genus with two new species of the family Scrophulariaceae (Antirrhinoideae-Gratioleae-Gratiolineae) in Zaire.
10.2307/3667891| 15 species, new to Switzerland, have been detected in the cantons Valais and Vaud by Lawalre (BR), and the author. 9 of them are new to science and their formal descriptions are published here. 
10.2307/3668277|The authors recall the strong interest of Melville's nomenclature for cones descriptions in Zamiaceae. They pinpoint the lack of such a framework for the description of leaves, while unfertile plants are common in the field. Therefore, they propose a schema involving some 22 characteristic points to be mentionned. An application is realized with the description of a new species from Zaire: Encephalartos schaijesii.
10.2307/3667655| Description de 10 espces et de 1 varit du genre Begonia, dont 7 espces et 1 varit nouvelles et 3 espces sommairement dcrites par Engler en 1921. 
10.2307/3667892| Three Cyphostemma species with simple leaves are present in Zare: C. wittei, already mentioned in previous publications, C. simplicifolium, until now only observed in Tanzania and C. kundelunguense, a new species. 
10.2307/3668180| Eleven taxa of the silica-scaled flagellate genera Mallomonas Perty, Paraphysomonas De Saedeleer, Spiniferomonas Takahashi and Synura Ehrenberg emend. Korchikov, found in the city of Santa Maria, in southern Brazil, were studied by means of transmission electron microscopy. For each species, comments about its occurrence and geographical distribution are given. All the taxa have already been recorded from Brazil. /// Onze txons de flagelados com escamas silicosas pertencentes aos gneros Mallomonas Perty, Paraphysomonas De Saedeleer, Spiniferomonas Takahashi e Synura Ehrenberg emend. Korchikov, coletados na cidade de Santa Maria, no extremo sul do Brasil, foram estudados atravs da microscopia eletrnica de transmisso. Para cada espcie, so fornecidos comentrios a respeito de sua ocorrncia e distribuio biogeogrfica. Todos os txons j haviam sido registrados anteriormente para o Brasil. 
10.2307/3668447|The genus Staurogyne, Anisosepalum and Saintpauliopsis are revised in tropical Africa. A total of 9 species are recognized and their distribution maps are provided. A new species, Staurogyne pseudocapitata, is described. Staurogyne kamerunensis (Engl.) R. Benoist and Anisosepalum humbertii (Mildbr.) E. Hossain are both divided in 2 subspecies. A. alboviolaceum (R. Benoist) E. Hossain var. gracilius Heine is elevated at the subspecific rank and 5 groups are recognized in subsp. alboviolaceum. Comments are made about the position of section Zenkerina (Engl.) E. Hossain in the infrageneric classification of Staurogyne.
10.2307/3667912| A large amount of lichens have been recently collected in the eastern part of Central Africa, namely Kivu (Zare), Rwanda and Burundi. Phytogeographical districts of the studied area are briefly discussed: central forest district, central east Afromontane district, occidental rift valley district, Rwanda and Burundi district, Mosso and Malagarasi district. This first paper deals with the study of three genera, each represented by one species only: Everniopsis trulla (Ach.) Nyl., Normandina pulchella (Borr.) Nyl. and Placopsis parellina (Nyl.) M. Lamb. 
10.2307/3667802| The genus Heteroderis (Bunge) Boiss. exists also in Egypt; Scorzonera judaica Eig is validly published, a type for this species is proposed, S. pseudolanata Grossh. is a synonym; Taraxacum monochlamydeum Hand. - Mazz. forma dissectum van Soest ex J. Lonard is validly published. 
10.2307/3668391|After Brachystephanus myrmecophilus Champluvier, a second new endemic species of the Congo-Nil ridge, B. glaberrimus, is described. It grows between 1650 and 2450 m in the montane forests of Kivu (Eastern Congo), Rwanda and Uganda. In Kivu, the new species has been found in the same area as B. myrmecophilus, but at much higher altitudes (2000-2100 m versus 850-1500 m). The two species have in common their endemism in the Kivu-Ruwenzori Domain of the Afro-montane Region and their paniculate-thyrsoid open inflorescence; this inflorescence type is otherwise not recorded in the genus. Besides the normal flowers with long exserted stamens typical of the genus, flowers with two short stamens or with unequal stamens (one short, one longer) are also present in B. glaberrimus. The three types of flowers can be observed on the same individual. It appears that the anthers of the 'abnormal' flowers remain closed and that pollen is not released. If they are fertile, those flowers might then function as unisexual, female flowers. As far as we know, this is the first report of gynomonoecy (i.e. coexistence of hermaphrodite and female flowers on the same plant) in Acanthaceae.
10.2307/3668250|Does Sindora klaineana, unique African species (Gabon, Congo) of a tropical Asiatic genus, really belong to that genus, in spite of a large geographical hiatus? The differences observed in 1957 were based only on the adult leaves (S. klaineana: imparipinnate leaves with alternate leaflets and an odd terminal leaflet; Asiatic species: paripinnate leaves with opposite leaflets) and on the arrangement of the vertical gum ducts in the wood. Palynology seems rather in favour of an unique paleotropical genus (Van Campo 1963). Comparative anatomy of the tegument of the seeds does not provide decisive arguments in favour of the splitting at the generic level (Pitot & Lendormy 1967). Comparative study of the seedlings shows that S. klaineana has seedlings perfectly similar to those of the Asiatic species and that the first leaves of S. klaineana always have opposite terminal leaflets. These first leaves are thus clearly different from the adult leaves, but, on the contrary, they are perfectly similar to the first leaves of the seedlings of the Asiatic species. So, this ontogenic recapitulation of the first leaves of S. klaineana reminds of the "sindorian Asiatic origin" of this African species. In conclusion, S. klaineana seems to be a species on the way of a slow generic differenciation (incipient genus) and it seems better to keep it in the genus Sindora.
10.2307/3667696|The genus Conostylis R. Br. (Australian Haemodoraceae). -- This genus is to be divided into 7 sections: 4 already recognized by Bentham (Androstemma, Brachycaulon, Catospora and Conostylis), 2 previously described by the present author, and sect. Blancoa Geerinck; the genus Blancoa Lindl. (nom. illeg.) is kept distinct from Conostylis by many authors and could be separated by the type of inflorescence and the position of the ovules, but the present author means that these characters have no generic value within the family.
10.2307/3667888|Pollen of all the genera of the Anthospermeae and the Paederieae is examined. With very few exceptions, the Anthospermeae are characterized by small to medium-size, 3-colporate, oblate grains with a perforated tectum or rugulate exine; the Paederieae have medium-size to large, 3-colpate, spherical to prolate grains either with a perforated tectum or with a microreticulate or reticulate exine. The genus Nertera (Anthospermeae) is the only eurypalynous element: nonaperturate, 3-colporate and 4-5-porate taxa occur. The pollen of the probably related tribe Theligoneae (formerly Theligonaceae) has not been reexamined but is discussed.
10.2307/3668272|Description of three new species of Amorphophallus Blume ex Decne., two from Zaire and one from Burundi.
10.2307/3667726|The presence of hooked hairs is characteristic of Desmodium and related genera among the Hedysareae (15 genera investigated), and of Centrosema, Clitoria, Clitoriopsis, Alepidocalyx, Minkelersia and Phaseolus among the Phaseoleae (47 genera investigated).
10.2307/3668303|Description of a new species of Pachira Aubl. (Bombacaceae), P. dolichocalyx A. Robyns from Guyane, which is quite distinct from the two other species of the genus, P. aquatica Aubl. and P. insignis (Sw.) Sav., by its very long calyx.
10.2307/3667822|Descriptive key to the 13 taxa of Pohlia occurring in Belgium. Three species: P. commutata (Schimp.) Lindb., P. lutescens (Limpr.) Lindb. f. and P. lescuriana (Sull.) Grout., are new for the country and are illustrated; the last two ones are also described. One plate, depicting the axillary gemmae of the 6 propaguliferous species, emphasizes the distinction between them.
10.2307/3667587|About 200 woody plants, including climbers, from the eastern part of Rwanda (Akagera National Park and adjoining areas), are keyed using practical vegetative characters. Some informations on flowers and fruits are secondarely given. Keys are preceded by a glossary of descriptive terms and followed by an index of scientific names, with indication of habit and ecology, and an index of Kinyarwanda names. Keys and glossary are illustrated with 221 drawings and 12 photographs.
10.2307/3668348| The odd Guineo-Congolian monospecific genus Martretia Beille is revised. On account of the correlation of characters based on floral morphology and palynology, it is proposed to place Martretia Beille in the new tribe Martretieae Khler ex J. Lonard trib. nov. of the Euphorbiaceae-Phyllanthoideae. 
10.2307/3667410| C'est  la suite d'une confusion introduite par Dumortier en 1824 que Vulpia membranacea (L.) Dum. a t signal en Belgique. Ces mentions correspondent en fait  des rcoltes de V. longiseta (Brot.) Hack., espce qui est vraisemblablement disparue de la flore belge  l'heure actuelle. 
10.2307/3668379|Revision and mapping of the specimens collected in Zaire of the Guineo-Congolian monotypic genus Discoglypremna.
10.2307/3668070|Next to the three already known species (Seligeria pusilla, S. recurvata and S. trifaria), four species are new for Belgium, namely: S. acutifolia, S. calcarea, S. donniana and S. paucifolia. Many old records were ill determinated. Keys, illustrations and comments.
10.2307/3667841| Description of a new species of Ardisia from Zare: A. lisowskii Taton & Lejoly. 
10.2307/3667584|On the systematic status of Phylloderma sacrum Suringar, an edible blue green alga from Japan. This interesting edible alga was fully described by Suringar in 1872, but since then, it has been overlooked in most of the general works on Cyanophyceae. It has been ascribed successively to the genera Phylloderma, Nostoc and Aphanothece. A reexamination of Suringar's original material and of fresh material collected by Prof. A. Noguchi near Kumamoto, type locality of Phylloderma sacrum led to the conclusion that it is actually a form of the cosmopolitan species Aphanothece stagnina (Spreng.) A. Br. The choice of the genus name Aphanothece versus Coccochloris is briefly accounted for.
10.2307/3667991|Description of a new genus and new species of Tiliaceae, which is closely related to the genus Mortoniodendron Standley & Steyermark. Both genera are characterized by arillate seeds, a feature unique in the Tiliaceae sensu stricto (excluding the Elaeocarpaceae). A key is given to separate the two genera and descriptions of the seedling, of the pollen and of the wood anatomy are also provided.
10.2307/3668017|Isozyme patterns in leaves and seeds were described in Najas marina L. subsp. armata (Lindb. f.) Horn af Rantzien from Lake Dogodogo in the Rusizi plain, Burundi and compared with Najas marina L. subsp. marina and subsp. intermedia (Gorski) Casper from European localities. Investigations on alcohol dehydrogenase, malic enzyme, shikimate dehydrogenase and xanthine dehydrogenase polymorphism reveal protein bands which show clear diagnostic features at the subspecific level.
10.2307/3667984| Trois espces nouvelles: Pluteus aurantiopustulatus, Pl. glaucotinctus et Pl. phaeoleucus, ainsi qu'une nouvelle varit: Pl. conizatus var. africanus, sont dcrites du Zare. Quatre des espces dcrites prcdemment par M. Beeli n'appartiennent pas  ce genre. Les descriptions compltes et l'illustration des nouveaux taxa paratront dans le fascicule 6 de la Flore illustre des Champignons d'Afrique centrale. /// Three new species of Pluteus Fr. (Pl. aurantiopustulatus, Pl. glaucotinctus, Pl. phaeoleucus) and one new variety (pl. conizatus var. africanus) are described from Zaire (Congo). The material examined (BR) was collected by Mrs. Goossens-Fontana. Full descriptions, illustrations and paintings of all species so far known from Zaire will be published in the Flore illustre des Champignons d'Afrique centrale, fasc. 6. 
10.2307/3667896| New taxa and new combinations for the flora of eastern Zare, Rwanda and Burundi (Acanthaceae, Melastomataceae, Sapotaceae). 
10.2307/3668071|Ten new species of Brazilian Ochnaceae are described: Sauvagesia laciniata, S. semicylindrifolia, Luxemburgia ciliatibracteata, L. hatschbachchiana, L. flexuosa, Elvasia tricarpellata,Ouratea margaretae, O. longipes, O. platicaulis, O. bahiensis. Are also described: Sauvagesia sect. Sauvagesia subsect. Sauvagesia and subsect. Vellozianae. Two new combinations are proposed: Ouratea acuta (Van Tieghem) Sastre (Cercouratea acuta) and O. recurva (Van Tieghem) Sastre (Notouratea recurva).
10.2307/3668271|Infraspecific taxonomy of wild Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. is still rather confuse. A review of the literature has shown that no less than 20 taxa have been described during one century and a half. A living collection of 59 samples is studied using 34 morphological characters including primary leaves shape, shape of standard appendages and colored marks, keel shape, ovule numbers. The results of multivariate analysis applied on these characters and the observation of herbarium specimens allow the identification of morphologically and geographically individualized groups which are ranked as subspecies. Two new subspecies, V. unguiculata subsp. letouzeyi Pasquet and subsp. burundiensis Pasquet are described.
10.2307/3667855|Description of a new species of Spiranthera (Rutaceae), S. leopoldiana P. Bamps & A. Robyns from western Bolivia, named in honour of the late King Leopold III whose interest for the natural sciences contributed to promote scientific expeditions in tropical regions. A key to the 4 known species of the genus is given.
10.2307/3668352|In line with the philosophy of character research and previous work on the character "carpel-form", with its character-states leptate, pseudoleptate and coenoleptate carpel-form, it was decided to reconsider the concepts "carpel" and "gynoecium". The carpel, and the carpel-types as well as the gynoecium and the gynoecium-types are approached as character-complexes, viz. sets of characters and characterstates which stand in close hierarchic relation to each other. Within the presented conceptual framework the description of the carpel as an ovuliferous phyllome is commented on, because in the array carpel-type, carpel and ovuliferous phyllome both the carpel and the ovuliferous phyllome are non-interchangeable character-complexes. On the other hand it is argued that alternative approaches to the carpel and the gynoecium do not contribute to the delineation of systematically relevant types. Apart from the development of our view on the carpel and related concepts, the advantages of the new approach are discussed.
10.2307/3667821| Le genre monotypique Diceratostele Summerh. est maintenant connu du Libria, de la Cte d'Ivoire, du Gabon, et du Zare. La description originale de cette espce est complte, et son architecture extraordinaire (apparemment unique parmi les orchides) est dcrite. La position taxonomique du genre est discute, et Diceratostele semble tre un des genres les plus primitifs de la sous-tribu Sobraliinae. 
10.2307/3668027| Une rvision des genres Penianthus Miers et Sphenocentrum Pierre est prsente. Quatre espces sont reconnues dans Penianthus: P. longifolius Miers, P. patulinervis Hutch. & Dalz., P. zenkeri (Engl.) Diels et une nouvelle espce P. camerounensis Dekker. Sphenocentrum reste monotypique avec la seule espce S. jollyanum Pierre. Des recherches taxonomiques, morphologiques et cytologiques ont t effectues. La morphologie du pollen est galement analyse. 
10.2307/3667596|Description of a new species of Hypolytrum (Cyperaceae) with capitate inflorescences, H. schnellianum sp. nov., from the Ivory Coast.
10.2307/3668404|Walafrida angolensis Rolfe is reported from Zaire and two new species, Walafrida barabei Mielcarek and Striga brouilletii Mielcarek from Guinea are described.
10.2307/3667476|Chromosome numerations have been performed in Asplenium trichomanes L. and different cytotypes have been identified in living and herbarium material. The diploid type is found on siliceous rocks, but the tetraploid one lives in various habitats. Triploid hybrids are not infrequent and give rise to a few hexaploid plants. The tetraploid form seems to be an autotetraploid derived from the diploid, but further investigations are necessary.
10.2307/3668069| Les noms de deux genres spars de Coffea, Argocoffea (Pierre) Lebrun et Calycosiphonia (Pierre) Lebrun, ne sont pas valablement publis. Argocoffea est considr comme synonyme de Argocoffeopsis Lebrun et les combinaisons nouvelles ncessaires sont tablies; une espce nouvelle (A. kivuensis, Zare) est dcrite. Argocoffeopsis n'est pas un genre satellite du genre Coffea, mais doit probablement tre exclu de la tribu des Coffeeae, comme le dmontrent les donnes de la palynologie et de la morphologie du fruit. La classification des Coffeeae est brivement discute. Calycosiphonia est ici valablement publi et une rvision en est faite. Sa position est discute. 
10.2307/3667993| Epiphyllous Hepaticae collected by J.L. De Sloover in Kivu (Zare), Rwanda and Burundi. Description of 4 new species: Drepanolejeunea deslooveri, Diplasiolejeunea deslooveri, Cololejeunea deslooveri and Cololejeunea parva. 
10.2307/3668161| The Tropical African genus Spondianthus Engl. is revised and its position in the Euphorbiaceae is confirmed on the basis of many characters (tribe Spondiantheae Webster). The single species S. preussii Engl. comprises two subspecies distinct by the presence or absence of indumentum, the altitude and their distribution (fig. 1): subsp. preussii from Liberia to Gabon between 0-200 (-450) m and subsp. glaber (Engl.) J. Lonard & Nkounkou comb. nov. from Guinea to NW Ivory Coast, from Togo and from E Nigeria to Sudan, Uganda, Tanzania, Zaire and Angola between 360-1220 m. 
10.2307/3668179|The second and final part of a qualitative study of the blue-green algae (Cyanophyceae) of the eastern part of the Distrito Federal, Brazil. Of 128 samples collected at two-monthly intervals during 1989-1990, 75 contained Oscillatoriaceae, amounting to a total of 52 species and 1 variety. Oscillatoria was the best represented genus (26 taxa) followed by Lyngbya (19), Schizothrix (6) and Microcoleus (2). Of the 53 taxa recorded, 8 are new records for Brazil and 20 are new for the Distrito Federal. Comments are offered, for most of the taxa studied, with a view to evaluation and improvement of taxonomic criteria for the identification of these algae. A new combination is proposed in the genus Lyngbya (L. abronema).
10.2307/3667863|The first notification is given on the occurrence of Hymenophyllum inaequale (Poir.) Desv. in East Tropical Africa (Tanzania, Uluguru Mts.). Key characters and geographical distribution of this species are discussed.
10.2307/3668255|In 1957, 91 seedlings belonging to 34 out of the 50 African genera included in the Detarieae and the Amherstieae were described. It had been found that only one type of seedling existed in each "good" genus. The seedlings of 55 additional species have been studied. We have at present seedlings of 146 species (38% out of the 331-342 African species) belonging to 42 out of the 52 African genera included in these two tribes (i.e. 80% of African genera). The present study confirms the fact that the seedlings of all the species of one "good" genus have the same type of structure. A generic classification of the seedling types has been established for the African genera of these two tribes (table 1). The correlation of the characters of generic value based upon the morphology of the adult plants with the characters of generic value based upon the seedling structure is therefore obvious. The study of the seedlings of these 55 additional species corroborates the generic delimitations proposed in 1957 and confirms also the homogeneity of the accepted genera. The synonymy between various genera (Macroberlinia, Pahudia, Paraberlinia, Paradaniellia, Toubaouate and Trachylobium) according to morphological data of the adult plants is confirmed by the similarity of their seedlings with those of the accepted genera. On the other hand, the partition of heterogeneous genera into several genera according to the morphology of the adult plants is confirmed by the existence of a particular seedling type for each of them. In conclusion, this study shows clearly again the valuable help that may be given by the study of the seedlings to the natural delimitation of genera in the Detarieae and the Amherstieae, especially when complicated large heterogeneous genera are concerned.
10.2307/3667716| Rvision taxonomique, cologique et chorologique des Chrysobalanaceae africaines,  l'exception du genre Acioa, comprenant une cl gnrique et, pour chaque genre, une cl spcifique. Quelques taxons nouveaux sont dcrits et de nombreuses combinaisons nouvelles sont tablies. La citation des spcimens d'herbier est limite  un lieu de rcolte par degr carr. Les cartes de distribution de tous les taxons traits seront publies dans Distributiones Plantarum Africanarum 10 (1976). 
10.2307/3667485| Anacolia laevisphaera (Tayl.) Flowers (= Leiomela stricta P. Varde & Thr.) is present in Uganda, Tanzania, Zare, Rwanda and La Runion; A. cameruniae Dix. is in Tanzania. Leiomela africana Thr. & Nav. is new for Rwanda. The description of the sporophyte of Cyathophorella africana (Dix.) Broth., new for Rwanda, is completed. Notes and illustrations are provided (except for A. cameruniae). 
10.2307/3667923|Identifications keys to 35 families and 180 genera of pleurocarpous mosses (Musci) are provided. They are principally based on gametophyte characters and should permit the naming of the African genera.
10.2307/3667938|The two species of Aframomum, A. korarima and A. zambesiacum var. puberulum, recorded from Ethiopia are described and discussed.
10.2307/3667989| Les tudes, tant macromorphologique que palynologique et anatomique, fournissent des arguments convergents pour placer le genre Maxwellia Baillon dans la famille des Sterculiaces, tribu des Lasioptales, plutt que dans la famille des Bombacaces. /// The study of the macromorphology, of the pollen morphology and of the anatomy of the genus Maxwellia Baillon provides convergent arguments to include this genus in the Sterculiaceae tribe Lasiopetaleae rather than in the Bombacaceae. 
10.2307/3668160| This paper describes the flora and physiognomy of the Afromontane and mid-altitude evergreen forests of Malawi, and analyses trends in floristic richness and phytogeographical affinities. Afromontane forests, defined as having in excess of 50% Afromontane (near-)endemic tree species, cover today c. 218 km
10.2307/3668359| The new species Lindernia acicularis, L. hartlii, L. capitata, L. bampsii, Crepidorhopalon malaissei, C. symoensii, C. hartlii, C. alatocalycinus and C. manganicolus are described. Lindernia damblonii has proved to be a synonym of L. tenuis S. Moore, which is combined to Crepidorhopalon tenuis. Lindernia insularis Skan also belongs to the genus Crepidorhopalon and is combined to C. insularis. /// Les espces nouvelles Lindernia acicularis, L. hartlii, L. capitata, L. bampsii, Crepidorhopalon malaissei, C. symoensii, C. hartlii, C. alatocalycinus et C. manganicolus sont dcrites. Lindernia damblonii est synonyme de L. tenuis S. Moore, qui est transfr dans le genre Crepidorhopalon. Lindernia insularis Skan est galement rapport au genre Crepidorhopalon avec la combinaison nouvelle C. insularis. 
10.2307/3668351|The epiphytic orchids of the tropical rainforest of French Guiana have been investigated in 14 tropical rainforest stations and two coastal swamp forest stations. Some additional observations were made in urban environment. Especially the canopy epiphytes of the inland forests were observed, mainly on trunks and branches of fallen trees in clearings during the felling season, sometimes by using binoculars or by climbing up the trees. To make identification possible, most observed species were brought in cultivation in the greenhouses of the National Botanical Garden of Belgium. From the 195 orchids thus grown, 139 samples belonging to 54 species came into flower. This represents about 1/10 of the orchid flora of French Guiana. Five species were only found in an open environment (isolated trees in town) and did not occur in dense forest. A comparison with the list of herbarium specimens of orchids deposited at the Centre ORSTOM at Cayenne showed that from the 53 found, 13 were not represented in the herbarium. From these 13 species, 7 are known to exist in the Guianas. For the 6 species new to the flora of the Guianas, precisions are given concerning their geographical distribution in French Guiana.
10.2307/3668281|Fourty-four taxa of diatoms were identified in algal samples from the waterfalls of the Tshopo River (Zaire). The highest diversity was observed on inundated rocks, whilst the places strongly beaten by water were poor in species. Most taxa have a cosmopolitan or subcosmopolitan distribution. However, several taxa may be considered as tropical (Cymbella muelleri, Fragilaria strangulata, Navicula lagerheimii, N. subsulcata, Nitzschia lancettula).
10.2307/3668423| The notes written (in sched.) by Brenan and recently published by Lewis are confirmed: Cynometra? carvalhoi Harms, a tree from the open forests of Mozambique, does not belong to the genus Cynometra L. This species is, in fact, related to the genera Scorodophloeus Harms and Lebruniodendron J. Lonard. Brenan's conclusion that this species constitutes a new genus is also confirmed. The genus Brenaniodendron is described and the comb. nov. B. carvalhoi (Harms) J. Lonard is proposed. 
10.2307/3668047| Des conditions climatiques particulires, notamment une succession de longues priodes sches et pluvieuses, rgnent dans la plaine de la Rusizi. Elles y dterminent l'existence de phnophases souvent spectaculaires au niveau de la flore et de la vgtation. Les rsultats de plusieurs annes d'observations en matire de phnologie des associations vgtales les plus caractristiques de la plaine de la basse Rusizi sont prsents ici. /// As previously described, the lower Rusizi valley offers a mosaic of plant associations directly related to the soil composition. Because of the very particular climatic conditions found in this area, the associations show, with various degrees, often spectacular floristical variations due to the seasons. Results of continuous phenological observations of the most characteristic plant associations are presented. 
10.2307/3667867| Des pollens omniaperturs  pines stries et  infratectum granulaire sont observs chez Croton matourensis Aubl., Domohinea perrieri Leandri et Sagotia racemosa Baillon. Des pollens incompltement dvelopps de C. matourensis offrent quelques indications concernant l'ontognie des pines stries. L'arrangement des lments sculpturaux aux angles des muri semble tre une diversification du type " Crotonode ". Les pollens de Croton angustatus Urban, C. erythroxyloides Muell. Arg., Jatropha curcas L. et J. gossipifolia L. sont tudis  titre de comparaison. Une interprtation nouvelle de la stratification de l'exine de Croton texensis (Klotzsch) Muell. Arg. et C. gratissimus Burch. est donne. Enfin, d'autres cas d'lments sculpturaux orns trouvs chez les Angiospermes sont signals. 
10.2307/3668448| Two new species, one with two subspecies are described in the genus Syngonanthus Ruhl. (Eriocaulaceae) from central Africa (Shaba/Zare): S. manikaensis Kimpouni, S. lisowskii Kimpouni subsp. lisowskii and subsp. marunguensis Kimpouni. 
10.2307/3668371| Leandri (1957) and Webster (1994) considered the genus Cyathogyne Mll. Arg. as being synonymous with the genus Thecacoris A. Juss. The author shows this thereby enlarged Afro-Malagasy genus Thecacoris to be heterogeneous. Cyathogyne, including 3 species, C. viridis Mll. Arg., C. bussei Pax and C. usambarensis (Verdc.) J. Lonard comb. nov., constitutes a homogeneous group generically distinct from the homogeneous group composed of the 11 continental African species hitherto placed in the genus Thecacoris. The position of these 11 continental species in the genus Thecacoris, the type-species of which comes from Madagascar, seems somewhat doubtful, but is nevertheless maintained until a thoroughly revision of the Malagasy species of Thecacoris is made. In Zaire, 5 species of Thecacoris are known, all of them shrubs or small trees in the dense forests: T. glabroglandulosa (J. Lonard) J. Lonard comb. nov., T. latistipula J. Lonard, T. leptobotrya (Mll. Arg.) Brenan, T. lucida (Pax) Hutch. and T. trichogyne Mll. Arg. The genus Cyathogyne comprises only 1 species in Zaire, C. viridis, a suffrutex or a small shrub in the dense forests also. This species is represented by 2 endemic subspecies in Zaire: subsp. dewevrei (Pax) J. Lonard comb. nov., in the central basin of Zaire at lower altitudes and subsp. glabra J. Lonard subsp. nov., in the oriental dense forests at higher altitudes. 
10.2307/3668014| Suite et fin du travail sur les ptridophytes du Rwanda, du Burundi et d'une partie de la Rgion du Kivu (Zare), dont la premire partie a t publie dans Bull. Jard. Bot. Nat. Belg. 53: 177-284 (1983). Y sont dcrites les nouvelles espces suivantes: Huperzia bampsiana (Rwanda), Asplenium lambinonii (Zare), Asplenium reekmansii (Burundi), Dryopteris lewalleana (Burundi) et Elaphoglossum rwandense (Rwanda). De plus un statut nouveau est tabli,  savoir Asplenium dregeanum subsp. brachypterum. L'auteur accorde une attention particulire  l'tude d'Asplenium ceii, A. dregeanum et A. lademannianum, ainsi qu' la taxonomie du groupe Dryopteris inaequalis; le caractre spcifique de D. pentheri est clarifi et ce taxon est considr comme une espce distincte de D. inaequalis. Au total, les collections tudies se rapportent  237 espces, 4 sous-espces et 15 varits. Un index de tous les noms mentionns dans ce travail est joint en fin de texte. 
10.2307/3668162| Heine & Hemsley (Kew Bull. 14: 304. 1960) emended the definition of the genus Bequaertiodendron De Wild.; they considered B. congolense De Wild. and Chrysophyllum magalismontanum Sond. as conspecific, and added a series of other species to the synonymy of Bequaertiodendron magalismontanum (Sond.) Heine & Hemsley; this fusion of several species into one, made it necessary to enlarge considerably the concept of Bequaertiodendron. Actually, this last genus proved to be antedated by Englerophytum Krause (Aubrville, Adansonia, ser. 2, 11: 432-436. 1971). On the other hand, a thorough analysis of the material of Brussels (BR), Paris (P) and Kew (K) shows that, as far as Central and West Africa are concerned, 8 species have been confused under Bequaertiodendron magalismontanum; they belong to 3 different genera: Englerophytum Krause (4 species), Wildemaniodoxa Aubrv. & Pellegrin (ones species and one variety) and Zeyherella (3 species). A table of the generic characters and a key to the genera is given, and, for each genus, a key to the species confused under B. magalismontanum, and a description of the species. 
10.2307/3668454| Pioneer aquatic vegetation growing in creeks in dense forest near Yangambi (Kisangani, Zaire) consists of a plant community dominated by Ranalisma humile, Eichhornia natans and Potamogeton octandrus (Eichhornio-Ranalismatetum Lonard). Water of these creeks is fresh, acid, shallow and rather fast running. A chapter is devoted to the adaptations of these species to the progressive raising of the substratum and to the water-level variations. This vegetation is made of perennial, rooted, usually submerged and caulescent hydrophytes. Some of them, without rooted stems, are always submerged or with some floating leaves on the surface (Potamogeton), others are amphibious plants with rooted stems able to colonize the recently exundated substratum (Ranalisma, Eichhornia). To this pioneer vegetation succeeds, in quieter places, an aquatic community dominated by Nymphaea lotus and Utricularia div. sp. This Ranalisma and Eichhornia association should exist in various parts of tropical continental Africa. The same vegetation is also to be seen in deeper rivers, together with Websteria confervoides. In these deeper rivers, to the Ranalisma and Eichhornia vegetation succeeds now another plant community dominated by acaulescent species, Crinum natans and Ottelia ulvifolia. The curious adaptation of these two species to the raising of the substratum is described. Two analytical association tables have been established and the cover-value of each species has been calculated. 
10.2307/3668195|Study of the types of 3 Bryum species of Belgium: B. turbinatum (Hedw.) Turn., B. creberrimum Tayl. and B. pallescens Schleich. ex Schwaegr., with a discussion of the differences between these taxa.
10.2307/3668068|The vegetation types of the N'sele Park near Kinshasa are described and a map is appended.
10.2307/3668406|Clitandra and Chamaeclitandra are maintained here in the same concept as with Pichon. Both are monotypic and African.
10.2307/3667674|The examination of seedlings of 109 species (25 genera) of the tribe Phaseoleae led to the conclusion that the following characters have a taxonomic significance in this group: the texture of the cotyledons (fleshy or foliaceous), the stipules of the primordial leaves (double or single), the base of the primordial leaves (with or without auricles), and the presence or absence of hairs on the epicotyl. Other characters studied (for example the structure of the petiole of the primordial leaves) are more difficult to correlate with the classification based on floral organography. Some observations were made on nyctinasty, and the problem of the epigeal or hypogeal position of cotyledons in the Papilionaceae is also discussed.
10.2307/3667852|Nineteen species of the genus Lopholejeunea are present in Africa, Madagascar and the other African islands of the Indian Ocean. They are described and introduced in a key; full African synonymy is given. Eight new taxa are described: Lopholejeunea subgen. Laciniatae, L. abortiva (Mitt.) Steph. var. alata, L. minima, L. onraedtii, L. paramultilacera, L. quinquecarinata, L. subfusca (Nees) Steph. var. elongata and L. tixieriana.
10.2307/3667908| In continuation of de Ruiter's treatment of Myrianthus and Musanga (Bull. Jard. Bot. Nat. Belg. 46: 471-510.1976), the present paper gives a revision of the African representatives of 17 genera of the Moraceae. The area studied not only consists of the African Continent, but also includes Madagascar, the Comoro Islands, the Mascarenes, the Seychelles, and the Aldabra Islands. Several new combinations are made: Antiaris toxicaria ssp. africana (Engl.) C. C. Berg, A. toxicaria ssp. africana var. usambarensis (Engl.) C. C. Berg, A. toxicaria ssp. macrophylla (R.Br.) C. C. Berg, A. toxicaria ssp. madagascariensis (H. Perrier) C. C. Berg, A. toxicaria ssp. humbertii (Landri) C. C. Berg, Broussonetia greveana (Baillon) C. C. Berg, Treculia africana ssp. madagascarica (N.E.Br.) C. C. Berg, and T. africana ssp. madagascarica var. sambiranensis (Landri) C. C. Berg. Many names are brought into synonymy. Besides revising taxa, the present study aims to fill a gap in our knowledge between Asian Moraceae (studied by Corner, whose studies resulted in a new classification of the family) and the neotropical Moraceae, a subject of study by the present author. Therefore discussions about classification of the family and relationships of African Moraceae with moraceous taxa elsewhere are an essential part of the present paper. 
10.2307/3668444|Pachystela seretii De Wild. does not fit in any of both genera Pachystela and Tulestea where it has been successively placed. Although near to Afrosersalisia, it differs from it by the nearly free calyx and the insertion point of the stamens in the tube, beneath the mouth of the corolla and the staminodes; for all these reasons we place it in a new genus: Lasersisia Liben gen. nov.; a description of the species is given.
10.2307/3668048|Key, comments and illustrations of Campylopus denticuspis, C. perichaetialis and C. stramineus, 3 species of subgen. Pseudocampylopus from mountains of central Africa. New caracters used: perichetial leaves and cells of nerve in dorsal view. Short comments on C. arbogastii, C. dicranoides, C. leptodrepanium, C. paludicola and C. subperichaetialis.
10.2307/3667730|The African members of the Conocephaloideae are revised. Musanga comprises two species: M. cecropioides and M. leo-errerae. In Myrianthus seven species are recognized: M. arboreus, M. holstii, M. preussii (with ssp. preussii and ssp. seretii), M. libericus, M. serratus (with var. serratus and var. letestui), and M. cuneifolius. M. serratus var. letestui is described as new.
10.2307/3667599|Three new species of Polyporaceae are described; Lignosus dimiticus, characterized by a dimitic hyphal system, Microporus atrovillosus, characterized by a black, smooth pileus, a villose, central stipe and strongly corallinoid binding hyphae in the pore mouths, and Trechispora polygonospora characterized by a poroid hymenophore and angular spores.
10.2307/3668244| Dialium lopense, arbre de taille moyenne, important comme producteur de fruits pour les chimpanzs et les gorilles dans la rserve de la Lop-Okanda au Gabon, est dcrit comme espce nouvelle. 
10.2307/3668221|Monadenium cupricola, a new species found in Southern Zaire on cellular siliceous rocks and in savanna-steppe vegetation on copper-cobalt mineralized hillocks, is described.
10.2307/3667897| Description of two new species of Cassipourea Aubl. subgen. Weihea (Spreng.) Alston from the central highlands of equatorial Africa: C. leptoneura Floret and C. ndando J. Lonard ex Floret, well defined by conspicuous dichasial inflorescences. The affinities are discussed. 
10.2307/3668336| Description d'une nouvelle espce d'Aristolochia et considrations critiques concernant l'existence du genre Pararistolochia. 
10.2307/3668036| Le prsent texte est la premire des deux parties d'un travail sur les Ptridophytes du Rwanda, du Burundi et d'une partie de la Rgion du Kivu (Zare), notamment le versant nord-est des monts Virunga, le territoire  l'ouest du lac Kivu, particulirement le massif Kahuzi-Biega jusqu' Irangi, et les environs de Bukavu et de Kabare. L'tude se limite aux collections faites dans cette dition par divers botanistes belges et par l'auteur, soit environ 2100 numros d'herbier totalisant, en tenant compte des doubles, plus de 4500 spcimens. Ceux-ci sont conservs dans les herbiers de diverses institutions (BR, GENT, LG, etc.) et dans les herbiers privs de J. Lewalle et de l'auteur. Une liste des collecteurs donne des informations sur leurs contres de rcoltes, sur leurs priodes de rcoltes, sur les herbiers o sont conservs leurs spcimens et sur le nombre de numros d'herbier de Ptridophytes tudis par l'auteur. Les principaux rsultats de cette recherche sont rsums dans le catalogue des Ptridophytes prsents au Rwanda, au Burundi et dans une partie du Kivu. Ce catalogue numre tous les spcimens examins et donne des informations sur leurs habitats, des descriptions de nouvelles espces et des notes diverses sur la taxonomie, la nomenclature et la gobotanique de quelques espces. Bien que les collections cites dans ce travail ne soient qu'une partie de celles faites dans la dition, elles sont riches assez pour donner un tableau acceptable de la flore ptridologique de cette partie de l'Afrique centrale. L'auteur dcrit les nouvelles espces suivantes: Pleopeltis bampsii (Rwanda, Zare), Aleuritopteris vandervekenii (Zare), Pteris auquieri (Rwanda, Burundi), P. microlepis (Rwanda), Vandenboschia inopinata (Zare, Rwanda, Burundi et divers pays d'Afrique tropicale, Madagascar et Mascaraignes), Blotiella bouxiniana (Rwanda, Burundi), B. trichosora (Burundi), Macrothelypteris rammelooi (Rwanda), Metathelypteris vandervekenii (Rwanda) et Christella burundensis (Burundi). Il tablit les combinaisons suivantes: Pityrogramma elongata (C. Chr.) Pic. Ser. et Vandenboschia ramitricha (Faden) Pic. Ser. 
10.2307/3667739|The new species Alafia zambesiaca Kupicha and the new subspecies A. caudata Stapf subsp. latiloba Kupicha are described, and the geographical distributions of A. zambesiaca and A. caudata are discussed in relation to African chorology.
10.2307/3668216|Vernonia titanophylla Brenan is recorded for the first time from Congo. A description is provided together, with some data on the distribution.
10.2307/3668335| Description et illustration d'une nouvelle espce de Trichostephanus, T. gabonensis, en provenance du Gabon. Ce genre occupe une position particulire dans la famille des Flacourtiaceae et n'tait connu jusqu' prsent que par une seule espce. 
10.2307/3667774| From the rich material collected by E.J.H. Corner, in Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and the Solomon Islands, 25 sp. of Agaricus and 16 sp. Micropsalliota have been recognized, including 23 new species and 1 new variety: Agaricus inedulis, A. pleurocystidiatus, A. inoxydabilis, A. albidoperonatus, A. termiticola, A. hypophaeus, A. duplocingulatus, A. notrichus, A. hymenopileus, Micropsalliota brunneola, M. subarginea, M. pilicystis, M. arginophaea, M. brunneosperma var. cortinata, M. lateritia, M. lutescens, M. ianthina, M. globocystis, M. laeta, M. gracilis, M. repanda, M. ochracea, M. xanthorubescens and M. roseipes. A new combination is made: Micropsalliota violaceosquamulosa; as well as a new section of subgen. Conioagaricus of gen. Agaricus: Hymenopilei. Full description and illustration are given of most of the species. 
10.2307/3668330|Only some 30 km
10.2307/3668269| Pour diverses raisons, dont principalement par application de l'article 2b du Code de nomenclature phytosociologique, il est propos de rejeter les noms des "associations" mentionnes en Iran par M. Zohary en 1963. 
10.2307/3668422| Une espce nouvelle de Panicum, P. littorale, trs proche de P. brazzavillense, est dcrite de la savane ctire du Gabon. 
10.2307/3668424|A team of four researchers (Breteler et al. 1997) considered recently the monotypic genus Colophospermum, common in the austral parts of Africa, as a synonym of the monotypic genus Hardwickia, distributed on the Indian continent. The reasons given in favour of this synonymy rely on the similarity of the pollen morphology, of the wood anatomy and of various macromorphological characters. The macromorphological differences mentioned are comparatively few and do not justify maintaining the genus Colophospermum. The present author emphasizes that the taxonomist of the team not only did not determine the systematic value of the macromorphological differences quoted by him, but chiefly failed to mention many important distinctive characters. The author investigates all existing macromorphological differences between these two genera and determines their systematic value by using objective criteria instead of subjective ones. He concludes that these two genera are differentiated by numerous characters based on the morphology of the flower, of the fruit and of the seed. Many of these characters have an important generic value (see table 1 and fig. 1-2). The genus Colophospermum is therefore re-established with his species C. mopane and a detailed key is provided in order to distinguish it from the genus Hardwickia.
10.2307/3668432|This paper is the second part of a taxonomic study of the diatoms (genera Navicula sensu lato and Pinnularia) of two aquatic macrophyte banks from Lagoa Bonita, Distrito Federal. The samples were collected monthly between March 1989 and March 1990. The analysis of the samples allowed 14 specific and infra-specific taxa to be identified. All of them are first records for the Distrito Federal. For each taxon morphological information, comments, and Optical Microscope (O.M.) photographs are presented. Some taxa were examined using Scanning Electron Microscopy (S.E.M.).
10.2307/3668164| Both hypogeal and epigeal germination characterize Vigna vexillata (L.) A. Rich. The American material is epigeal whereas the plants originated from the Old World present generally cotyledons under soil level. The leaf shape seems of little utility for distinguishing V. vexillata var. vexillata and V. vexillata var. angustifolia (K. Schum. & Thonn.) Bak. V. vexillata var. macrosperma Marchal, Mascherpa & Stainier might have to be raised at the specific level. 
10.2307/3667832|A revision is presented of the group of frutescent Dorstenia species with a single row of appendages on the margin of the receptacle which occur in rain-forest areas of tropical Africa. The group comprises: D. dorstenioides (Engl.) M. Hijman & C. C. Berg, D. involuta M. Hijman & C. C. Berg, D. turbinata Engl., D. angusticornis Engl., D. alta Engl. and D. scaphigera Bureau.
10.2307/3668343| The study of the literature of B. inclinatum (Brid.) Turton hom. illeg., B. imbricatum (Schw.) B.S.G., B. cirrhiferum (De Not.) De Not., B. stenotrichum C. Mll., B. intermedium (Brid.) Turt. allows the authors to recognize the four last species as distinct ones, to give a survery of the confusions and to establish the systematic position of B. amblyodon C. Mll. [syn. B. inclinatum (Schw.) B.S.G. hom. illeg.]. 
10.2307/3668266| Detailed investigations of various character states clearly prove that both Pseudomussaenda and Schizomussaenda are best considered segregates of the large, paleotropical genus Mussaenda and are, therefore, to be included in the tribe Isertieae. The essential difference between the two segregate genera and Mussaenda lies in the fruits (dry, loculicidal capsules vs. indehiscent, fleshy or  fleshy berry-like fruits). Comparative studies of the ovary and fruit development (differentiations in the carpel walls) show however that a very similar anatomical situation is present initially. It is only during further development that the wall tissues differentiate differently to give rise to the two diverse fruit types. Pseudomussaenda and Schizomussaenda are believed to have arisen independently (and fairly recently) in Africa and Asia respectively (Pseudomussaenda: confined to tropical Africa; the monotypic Schizomussaenda: from SW China westwards to N Burma). Various differences between the two (e.g. exotesta anatomy, pollen exine type) seem to support this. Similarities, notably the congruent occurrence of capsular fruits, are likely to be due to convergent evolution. 
10.2307/3668183|Revision and mapping of the specimens collected in Zaire of Crotonogynopsis Pax, a rare monotypic genus from tropical continental Africa. These specimens belong to C. usambarica Pax, a forest species linking the Guineo-Congolian regional centre of endemism and the Lake Victoria and the Zanzibar-Inhambane regional mosaics.
10.2307/3667743|Leprocaulon arbuscula (Nyl.) Nyl. is reported for the first time from continental Africa. It was found in a virgin montane forest in Rwanda where it is extremely rare.
10.2307/3668105|The result of an investigation into the possible taxonomic value of comparative petiole anatomy in 46 taxa of the genus Biscutella (Cruciferae) is presented. The shape of the petioles varies from dorsiventrally flattened to subcircular or circular in transections with abaxial surface convex and adaxial surface convex or concave. In all taxa the vascular structure consists of a single collateral principal bundle accompanied by subsidiary strands in the wings. Shallow crescentiform, deeply crescentiform and U-shaped bundles all occur within the genus. The perivascular tissue may be composed of either sclerenchyma or collenchyma, or both. In some cases the anatomical features have provided characters which are of practical taxonomic use in distinguishing the species. The relative homogeneity of many anatomical characters in other groups of taxa reflected the close genetic relationships existing between them.
10.2307/3667492|21 new taxa are recognized: D. eglumis var. reducta, D. delicata, D. minoriflora, D. pulchra, D. katangensis var. hirta, D. eylesii var. hirta, D. apiculata var. hirta, D. appropinquata, D. trinervis, D. spirifera, D. kasamaensis, D. incisa, D. tenuifolia, D. annua, D. procurrens, D. complanata, D. bidactyla, D. megasthenes, D. floribunda, D. dunensis, D. acuminatissima ssp. inermis.
10.2307/3668446| The taxonomic status of the dominant Cyanophyceae of the phytoplankton community of the Parano reservoir is reviewed, discussed and settled. By means of monthy collections during 13 months, its trichomes, heterocysts and akinetes are described. Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii (Woloszinska) Seenayya & Subba Raju is responsible for the formation of blooms due to eutrophic conditions in the reservoir, which confirms Cronberg's previous observation and determination. 
10.2307/3668098| Description d'une espce nouvelle de Bombacaceae: Eriotheca dolichopoda A. Robyns, provenant de l'Etat de Bahia, Brsil. 
10.2307/3668110|The paper presents the taxonomic account of ten species of Laurera from the Indian subcontinent. The six new species described are L. indica, L. keralensis, L. kundaraensis, L. pseudovariata, L. subbenguelensis and L. subphaeomelodes.
10.2307/3668251| Metabolos (syn. Allaeophania) is a small Asiatic genus (monotypic or possibly 2 species) with a disjunct distribution (Sri Lanka -- Java). It comprises woody herbs with many-flowered axillary inflorescences clustered in the axils of foliage leaf-like bracts. The genus is characterized by having connate stipules with a long, basal tubular part, externally covered by colleters. The flowers are heterodistylous. The 4-carpellate gynoecium is comprised of 4 stigma lobes beset with unicellular, relatively long receptive hairs with swollen apices, a common style, and a tetralocular ovary. Each locule contains a solitary, anatropous ovule on a placenta arising at the base of the locule. The turbinate fruits are indehiscent and typically contain 4 one-seeded pyrenes; they resemble but are not "typical" drupes as the mesocarp never becomes distinctly fleshy. Upon exsertion of a slight pressure, the fruits will break into 4 "mericarps." The endocarps are thick and sclerenchymatic and contain large crystals ("crystal sclerenchyma"). The seeds have an unusual exotesta with peculiar "warty" thickenings on the outer tangential walls (but no thickenings on the inner tangential and the radial walls). The relatively large embryo is surrounded by approximately three layers of large,  thick-walled (but not distinctly horny) endosperm cells. The pollen is 3-colporate and  spheroidal and has a reticulate exine. There are no significant differences between flowers from long- and short-styled morphs. Based on the present findings, the genus appears to be rather closely allied to Lasianthus and should, therefore, be placed in the tribe Psychotrieae (subtribe Psychotriinae) for the moment. There is no support for an association with the tribe Hedyotideae. 
10.2307/3668028| Metzgeria vandenberghenii Kuwahara sp. nov. (subgen. Biforma sect. Biformibiseria) is described from Zare, and four species new to Africa are noted: M. allionii Steph., M. corralensis Steph., M. densiseta Steph. and M. epiphylla Evans. 
10.2307/3667698| The genus Cystoderma (Tricholomataceae) in Central Africa. -- The genus Cystoderma groups about 30 species, distributed mainly in the temperate zone. The tropical species are reviewed, with special reference to the African ones. Two species from Central Africa are described, namely C. cristalliferum Thoen sp. nov., brown red, with cristals-bearing cystidia (reminding those of C. cinnabarinum) and C. elegans (Beeli) Thoen comb. nov. (basionym: Armillaria elegans Beeli), relatively tall, ochre yellow, with  incrustant pigment on the spherocysts, very narrow and crowded gills and well developed membranous ring; both species have inamyloid spores. A third species is known from Congo: C. ferruginosum (Bres.) Pegler; it is the only species with strongly amyloid spores. C. luteo-hemisphaericum Dennis is known from Venezuela and recently from Ghana; it is characterized by a yellow vacuolar pigment in the spherocysts. C. siparianum (Dennis) Thoen comb. nov. (basionym: Lepiota sipariana Dennis), described from the British West Indies, could exist in Africa. 
10.2307/3667558| Description of nine new species: Leucoagaricus agaricaceus, L. bisporus, L. bulbillosus, L. carminescens, L. ferruginosus, L. pepinus, L. squamosus, L. striatulus, L. testaceus; of one new section: Leucoagaricus sect. Pepini and of one new genus :Rugosospora. One new name: L. aurantiacus; and seven new combinations are established (all from Lepiota): L. bingensis, L. goossensiae, L. roseoalbus, L. roseolus, L. sanguineus, L. velutinus and Rugosospora ochraceobadia. /// An extended study, with colour plates, of these taxa will appear in Flore illustre des champignons d'Afrique centrale, fasc. 2. 
10.2307/3667992|Description of five new species of Embelia Burm. and one new species of Maesa Forsk.
10.2307/3668408| Descriptions de 3 nouveaux taxons appartenant au complexe d'Encephalartos eugene-maraisii Verdoorn et en provenance du Transvaal (Rp. sud-africaine): E. dolomiticus, E. dyerianus et E. eugene-maraisii subsp. middel-burgensis, suivies d'un tableau comparatif des caractres vgtatifs des 4 taxons de ce complexe. 
10.2307/3667489|From algae and plankton samples collected in lake Chad (Central Africa) and in surrounding areas, five new species and eight new forms of Diatoms are described; the new species are: Neidium grunowii, Pinnularia polyoncoides, Nitzschia iltisii, Surirella murielae, Surirella tchadensis. Some new names and combinations are established in agreement with the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature.
10.2307/3668218| The genus Neoboivinella Aubrv. & Pellegrin was until now monospecific and unknown in Central Africa. Actually, it is represented in the area by two species: the well-known N. natalensis (Sond.) Aubrv. & Pellegrin, and a second species: N. gossweileri (De Wild.) Liben comb. nov., transferred from the genus Zeyherella (Pierre) Aubrv. & Pellegrin. The genus reaches in Central Africa and in Uganda the northern limit of it's distribution area. A generic description and a key to the species is given. 
10.2307/3668435| Deux espces nouvelles du genre Lindernia sont dcrites. Lindernia mbalaensis est proche de L. schweinfurthii, mais se distingue par la rosette basale et la forme des feuilles. L. kigomensis est proche de L. oliveriana, mais se distingue par les anthres abaxiales rduites et striles. L. rotundifolia en Afrique a t rtudi. Tout le matriel des rgions afromontagnardes appartient  L. rotundata, souvent mis en synonymie de L. rotundifolia. Ce taxon se distingue par plusieurs caractres diagnosiques. Une combinaison nouvelle est propose. 
10.2307/3667980|Transfer of the monospecific African genus Kerstingiella to Macrotyloma, based on organography, blastogeny, chorology and palynology.
10.2307/3667919| 116 espces appartenant aux Aphyllophorales sont signales pour la partie orientale de l'Afrique centrale (Kivu, Zare; Burundi; Rwanda). Un genre (Amylohyphus) et 7 espces nouvelles sont dcrites (Amylohyphus africanus, Dentocorticum irregularis, Hyphoderma multicystidiatum, Hyphodontia africana, Hypochnicium aureum, H. grandinioides, Laeticorticum odontoides et Hapalopilus africanus). Les combinaisons suivantes sont proposes: Ceriporia mellea (Berk. & Br.) Ryv., Echinochaete brachyporus (Mont.) Ryv. et Fomitopsis supina (Fr.) Ryv. Dix espces n'avaient pas encore t signales pour l'Afrique (Dacryobolus sudans, Epithelopsis fulva, Hyphoderma medioburiense, Hyphodontia verruculosa, Phlebia hydnoides, Fomitopsis rhodophaea, Hapalopilus nidulans, Perenniporia contraria, Phellinus torulosus et Tyromyces pelliculosus). 
10.2307/3667982| Le Jardin Botanique de Tananarive possdant une abondante collection du genre Euphorbia, il nous a t possible d'observer l'architecture vgtative de nombreuses espces. Ces observations ont t compltes par une tude sur le terrain. Dans l'tat actuel de nos connaissances, les espces malgaches du genre Euphorbia ralisent 11 modles architecturaux. Le genre Euphorbia est ainsi le plus polymorphe qui soit actuellement connu. La comparaison avec le polymorphisme du genre Aeonium (Crassulaces) aux Iles Canaries (Lems 1960), et celui du genre Pandanus (Pandanaces)  Madagascar (Guillaumet 1973) amne  considrer l'apparition d'architectures varies comme l'un des mcanismes de la spciation en milieu insulaire. /// The Botanical Garden of Tananarive possesses numerous species of the genus Euphorbia. The study of the vegetative architecture of several of them has been done. These observations have been completed by a field study. Eleven architectural models have been recorded in the genus Euphorbia, which is consequently the most polymorphous genus actually known. The parallel between these observations and the polymorphism of the genus Aeonium (Crassulaceae) in the Canarian Isles (Lems 1960), and that of the genus Pandanus (Pandanaceae) in Madagascar (Guillaumet 1973) bring us to consider the coming up of various architectures as one of the mecanisms of speciation in islands. 
10.2307/3667960| La partie principale de l'article dcrit la composition floristique et la physionomie des forts afromontagnardes des pentes sud-ouest du Nyika ( Aningeria-Olea) et du haut plateau central ( Hagenia-Myrica-Nuxia), le long d'un gradient altitudinal de 500 m (1950-2450 m: tabl. 3). Certains aspects phnologiques (priodicit et rcurrence annuelle de la fructification entre autres) sont aussi considrs (cf. tabl. 4  6), ainsi que les effets de l'altitude et de la dimension des fragments forestiers sur leur richesse en espces (tabl. 8, fig. 5). Les forts  Ficalhoa-Ocotea de l'escarpement oriental sont dcrites le long d'un gradient altitudinal (1850-2350 m: tabl. 9). Les forts riveraines de l'escarpement ouest comprennent une communaut de transition  Newtonia. Les forts relativement sches domines par Juniperus procera (pentes sud-est) et par Euphorbia-Entandrophragma (sud) forment des communauts distinctes. Il est clair que les forts du Nyika ont srieusement souffert des feux de brousse dans les temps rcents. Les signes et l'tendue de cette rgression par le feu sont examins (cf. fig. 2 et 3), ainsi que la vitesse de rgnration des espces de lisire (mesure sur 3 ans: tabl. 10). 
10.2307/3668227|Rediscovery of an anisophyllous Justicia, described as Duvernoia irumuensis by Lindau in 1911 and related to J. inaequifolia Brummitt from East Africa.
10.2307/3668222|Three Cyphostemma with Zambezian distribution are reported from Zaire for the first time; furthermore, a new noteworthy species with simple leaves is described.
10.2307/3668143|A new species of the genus Zeuxine is described from Congo (Brazzaville): Z. odzalaensis. Furthermore, two other species: Z. occidentalis and Z. stammleri are recorded for the first time in this country.
10.2307/3668230| Description et illustration d'une nouvelle espce d'Albertisia, A. porcata, en provenance du Gabon. 
10.2307/3668058|Bryum provinciale Philib. is not synonymous with B. canariense Brid.
10.2307/3668093|Revision of the genus Polystachya Hook. sect. Cultriformes Kraenzl., characterized by only one leave at the apex of the stem or pseudobulb. Twenty species are recognized in Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi. Five species are new: P. brugeana, P. dewanckeliana, P. lawalreana, P. leonardiana, P. troupiniana.
10.2307/3668019|In addition to the sex, the leaf cellular tissue of B. pseudotriquetrum (Hedw.) Gaert., Meyer & Scherb. and of its variety bimum (Schreb.) Lilj. can be used in most cases to distinguish the two taxa.
10.2307/3668445|The "Flore d'Afrique Centrale" mentioned 4 species of Linociera Sw., a genus which in the meantime has been transferred to Chionanthus L.; a fifth species has since then been collected in Zaire. The description of this fifth species is given and a key to the five species present in Central Africa is proposed.
10.2307/3668434| Cet article dcrit la composition et l'organisation de la vgtation des mangroves des milieux "margino-littoraux" de Cte d'Ivoire et fournit des donnes biomtriques sur l'espce dominante Rhizophora racemosa (Rhizophoraceae). Les cosystmes "margino-littoraux" sont varis, tant par leur environnement climatique et hydrologique que par leurs dimensions ou leur fonctionnement. Les mangroves y sont bien reprsentes en bordure des lagunes, des estuaires, des cours d'eau (Como, Bandama, Sassandra et les rivires Bolo, La M et N'Gni) et 30 espces vgtales ont t reconnues. Les espces Rhizophora racemosa et Avicennia germinans (Avicenniaceae) dominent qualitativement et quantitativement le peuplement. Par ailleurs, les rsultats ont permis d'individualiser cinq formations vgtales et de mettre en vidence l'existence d'une zonation des plantes de la mangrove. Cette dernire est essentiellement lie aux paramtres hydrologiques (en particulier la salinit et le mouvement des eaux) et gomorphologiques (sdiment). /// This article describes the composition and organisation of vegetation of mangroves in "margino-littoral" milieu of Cte d'Ivoire and provides biometrical data on the dominant species Rhizophora racemosa (Rhizophoraceae). The "Margino-littoral" ecosystem in Cte d'Ivoire show a great diversity in their dimension, functioning, climatic and hydrologic caracteristics. Mangroves are well developed on the bank of the lagoons, the estuaries and the rivers (Como, Bandama, Sassandra, Bolo, La M and N'Gni) and 30 species of plants have been recognized. Species of Rhizophora racemosa and Avicennia germinans (Avicenniaceae) are qualitatively and quantitatively dominant. Besides that, results allow us to identify five types of plant formation and to note the existence of zonation among plants. That zonation is essentially linked to hydrological (salinity and water movement) and geomorphological factors (sdiment). 
10.2307/3667913|A sample of fossil wood found in the Omo region (SW Ethiopia), in a sediment of lower Pleistocene age or maybe older, has been related to Steganotaenia araliacea Hochst., a woody Umbellifer showing a wide distribution in Central and South Africa. The anatomic study reveals not only a large variability in the structure of the actual species, but also an evolution in the course of which the included phloem disappeared. Whereas in the fossil wood included phloem is abundant, it is not found in the actual plant. In addition, other very specific characteristics have been noted, which permit the verification of the validity of this identification. The anatomy of the fossil piece of wood has been described in the same way as the actual kind of wood and the diagnosis of Steganotaenioxylon araliaceum (gen. et sp. nov.) is given.
10.2307/3668332|Calliergon keniae Dixon, a species endemic to East Africa, is described and illustrated. It is considered to be conspecific with Sarmentypnum sarmentosum (Wahlenb.) Tuom. & T. Kop. Calliergon sarmentosum (Wahlenb.) Kindb. var. subflavum Ferg. ex Dixon is also reduced to a synonym of S. sarmentosum, being only a phenotypic expression not meriting taxonomic recognition. S. sarmentosum is reported for the first time from Tanzania and all African records are detailed.
10.2307/3667787| Un nouveau genre Hubbardochloa et une nouvelle espce H. gracilis (Poaceae) sont dcrits et illustrs. Leur position taxonomique est discute et une nouvelle sous-tribu, les Hubbardochloinae, est propose. 
10.2307/3667987| Onze espces de Vulpia (Poaceae), 3 indignes et 8 adventices, ont t reconnues dans le matriel belge. Une cl dichotomique en est donne. La variabilit de V. myuros (L.) C.C. Gmel. est particulirement discute;  cette occasion est faite la combinaison nouvelle V. myuros var. megalura (Nutt.) Auquier. /// Eleven species of Vulpia (Poaceae), 3 indigenous and 8 adventitious, are recorded from Belgium. Key to the taxa is given. Variability in V. myuros (L.) C.C.Gmel. is especially discussed and the new combination V. myuros var. megalura (Nutt.) Auquier is established. 
10.2307/3668353|A new species of Galium, endemic to northern Ethiopia, is described. Its presumed alliances are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3667612| Rvision taxonomique du genre Homalium Jacq. en Afrique, base sur les collections d'herbiers les plus importantes pour ce genre. Le plus grand nombre de sections (6, dont 4 endmiques, avec un total de 36 espces) se rencontre  Madagascar, tandis que l'Afrique continentale ne compte que 3 sections, dont l'une est aussi prsente en Amrique, une autre galement reprsente  Madagascar, et la troisime apparemment limite  l'Afrique tropicale (15 espces). Le total des espces traites dans ce travail est de 59. /// Taxonomic revision of the genus Homalium Jacq. for Africa, based on the collections found in the herbaria most important for the genus, which finds its area of highest diversification with 6 sections (of which 4 endemic ones, with a total of 36 species) in Madagascar, whilst continental Africa has but 3 sections, one of which also in tropical America, one also in Madagascar, and one apparently limited to tropical Africa (15 species). The total of species treated in this work is 59. 
10.2307/3667964| The geographical distribution is given of Hymenocardia ripicola J. Lonard, an African Hymenocardiaceae confined to the riparian periodically flooded forests of the Guineo-Congolian Region of Africa and frequently confused with H. acida Tul., H. heudelotii Planch. ex Mll. Arg. and H. ulmoides Oliv. 
10.2307/3667785|Only one species of Tetracme was recorded from Iran (T. recurvata Bunge). Two more species are now mentioned for Iran: T. quadricornis (Steph.) Bunge et T. contorta Boiss.
10.2307/3668049| The presence of Hydnora johannis Beccari is reported from Zare for the first time. The plant occurs in Upper Shaba, parasiting Acacia species and Caesalpiniaceae. The description of the plant, supported by a plate, is given. 
10.2307/3667671| Dans le courant du mois d'aot 1971, il a t procd  diffrentes mesures dans la boulaie pubescente de Haute-Ardenne (Plateau des Tailles) en vue de dterminer la biomasse, le contenu en eau et la productivit des divers constituants de cette formation. La biomasse sche totale (79 t/ha), le contenu en eau (116 t/ha) et la productivit (7 t/ha) sont faibles par rapport aux autres cosystmes forestiers de la rgion. Les parties souterraines reprsentent 54,5% de la biomasse sche et 62% du contenu en eau. /// Biomass, water content and productivity of most components of a Betula pubescens wood, at the " Plateau des Tailles " (Haute-Ardenne) have been studied during august 1971. The whole biomass (79 t/ha), water content (116 t/ha) and annual productivity (7 t/ha) are low compared with other forest ecosystems of the country. The subterranean parts stand for 54,5% of the biomass and 62% of the water content. 
10.2307/3667414|Revision of the African species of the genera Frullania (42 spp.) and Jubula (2 spp.). Three subgenera are retained: Frullania, Homotropantha and Trachycolea emend. Many taxa are put in synonymy. Diagnosis of 6 new species: Frullania humbertii, F. tixierana, F. epiphylla, F. letestui, F. onraedtii and F. gabonensis. Identification keys. Index.
10.2307/3668057|The two African species known as Chlorophora excelsa and C. regia are placed in the genus Milicia Sim as M. excelsa (Welw.) C. C. Berg and M. regia (A. Chev.) C. C. Berg.
10.2307/3667788|Two new species of Sabicea Aubl. (Rubiaceae) are described: S. multibracteata from Liberia, Ivory Coast and Ghana, and S. solitaria from Ivory Coast and Ghana. A key is provided to the humiflorous species of Sabicea occuring in West Africa. Sabicea efulenensis (Hutch.) Hepper is reduced to synonymy in S. gabonica (Hiern) Hepper; S. tchapensis Krause is, however, recognised as a distinct species. The other new species described are: Pavetta akeassii (Rubiaceae) from Ivory Coast and Ghana, Psychotria ankasensis (Rubiaceae) from Ghana, and Lecaniodiscus punctatus (Sapindaceae) from Ghana and Cameroun.
10.2307/3667594|Description of a new species of Bombacaceae from Brazil: Eriotheca obcordata A. Robyns & S. Nilsson sp. nov., with notes on the pollen morphology.
10.2307/3667840|Reasons are given for recognizing 18 sections of Diospyros in Africa (excluding Madagascar). 13 are new. All are described. A key is provided.
10.2307/3667428|25 species originally described in the Polyporaceae by M. Beeli have been examined. 4 species are accepted in the Polyporaceae, 17 species are reduced to synonymy, 3 species have previously been transferred to the Boletaceae by Heinemann. One name is a nomen nudum. The following new combinations are proposed: Microporellus collybiiformis (Beeli) Ryv. (Polyporus collybiiformis Beeli), Amauroderma kwiluensis (Beeli) Ryv. (Polystictus kwiluensis Beeli).
10.2307/3668357|The author gives the description and the illustration of four new taxa of the genus Cololejeunea: C. salgadoi, C. sinuosa, C. tenella var. dentiloba, C. tixieri.
10.2307/3668192|Three new species of continental African Bulbophyllum are described. Two of these species (B. kivuense and B. horridulum) are probably endemic in the mountainous area around Lake Kivu in E Zaire and Rwanda; the third (B. carnosisepalum) is widespread though rather rare throughout the central African rainforest belt. In addition 18 taxa generally regarded as species have been reduced to an infraspecific level.
10.2307/3668226|A prostrate Dictyotaceae was collected on the sandy-silty mangrove substratum close to high tide level in Gazi Bay (Kenya). It appears to be the rarely observed Dictyota adnata Zan., characterized by the prostrate growth form, marginal groups of rhizoids, marginal sori of tetraspores, high Cl/Cw and Ml/Mw ratios. According to these observations D. adnata Auct. ("sensu Webervan Bosse") is another taxon.
10.2307/3668091| Une nouvelle Cyanophyce planctonique, Katagnymene mucigera, est dcrite et illustre d'aprs du matriel rcolt en Afrique du Sud. On la compare  diverses formes d'Oscillatoria ornata et O. lacustris qui montrent des trichomes fort semblables mais o manque la gaine muqueuse caractristique du genre Katagnymene. On donne les caractristiques cologiques de ses localits au Transvaal, ainsi qu'une description et une illustration de son ultrastructure. 
10.2307/3668202|A survey of the genus Agaricus in South America, South of the 40th parallel, comprises 24 taxa of which 13 are fully described; A. nothofagorum, A. valdiviae var. saturatus and A. phaeocyclus var. pucatrihuensis are new taxa. The keys include some species not yet encountered in the mentioned areas.
10.2307/3667742| Description d'une espce nouvelle de Bombacaceae: Eriotheca gentryi A. Robyns & S. Nilsson, provenant de la rgion du Choco en Colombie. Elle est caractrise par le tube staminal pourvu au sommet d'une gouttire profonde dans laquelle les filets des tamines sont insrs et par la structure particulire de la sexine des grains de pollen. 
10.2307/3667939|The identity and typification of Aframomum hanburyi are discussed, and it is concluded that the name is not usable. A new species is therefore described from Cameroun, and another species, occurring in Ghana and countries to the west, is also described as new.
10.2307/3667676| The Belgian material of the genus Arcyria is revised. Thirteen species are recognized and special attention is paid to their variability; all of them as well as deviating collections are described and figured. The diameter of the spore-like cells in the base of the stalk is considered to be a useful character for taxonomy. The name " sporangium " for the first type of myxomycete sporophores is replaced by " sporocyst ". /// Een revisie is gemaakt van het Belgisch materiaal van het genus Arcyria. Dertien soorten worden onderscheiden waarbij speciaal wordt gelet op hun variabiliteit; beschrijvingen en afbeeldingen ervan, evenals van afwijkende verzamelingen worden gegeven. De diameter van de sporeachtige cellen in de basis van het steeltje blijkt een taxonomisch bruikbaar kenmerk te zijn. De term " sporangium " voor het eerste type van sporoforen bij myxomyceten wordt vervangen door " sporocyst ". /// Le matriel belge du genre Arcyria est revu. Treize espces sont distingues; leur variabilit est observe spcialement; elles sont dcrites et figures, de mme que des collections aberrantes. Le diamtre des cellules ayant l'allure de spores dans la base du stipe est un caractre utile pour la taxonomie. Le terme " sporange " pour le premier type de sporophores de myxomyctes est remplac par " sporocyste ". 
10.2307/3668217|A new species of Macaranga is described, growing in seasonally flooded forests in Central Africa.
10.2307/3668176| Mareya is an African Guineo-Congolian genus comprising 3 species, all distributed in Zaire: M. brevipes Pax, M. congolensis (J. Lonard) J. Lonard comb. nov. and M. micrantha (Benth.) Mll. Arg. Mareyopsis is also an African Guineo-Congolian genus, but, up to now, with only one species: M. longifolia (Pax) Pax & K. Hoffm. A comparative study of these 4 species has confirmed that these two genera are separated by a lot of important characters of generic value. It seems therefore much better to keep these two genera distinct and not to follow Webster's recent proposal (1994) to unite them. 
10.2307/3667600|A new species of Euphorbia from NE Zambia is described and a new name provided to replace the illegitimate E. verticillata Pax from Angola.
10.2307/3667582| La rvision de l'herbier de B. C. Dumortier (BR) permet de typifier plusieurs taxons relevant du genre Festuca (Poaceae) au sens actuel, dcrits par cet auteur en 1823; les synonymies avances auparavant par les auteurs reposaient en effet presque uniquement sur des spculations bases sur les diagnoses succinctes de Dumortier. Mis  part Festuca prasina Dum., dont l'indigence du matriel original ne permet pas une identification certaine, les synonymies suivantes peuvent tre tablies: F. arduenna Dum. = F. pallens Host; F. unifaria Dum. = F. rubra L. subsp. juncea (Hack.) Richt.; F. denudata Dum. = F. nigrescens Lam.; F. rubra L. subsp. oraria Dum. et F. ammophila Dum. = F. juncifolia Saint-Amans; F. diffusa Dum. = F. rubra L. subsp. multiflora (Hoffm.) Jirsek; Schedonorus arundinaceus Dum. = F. arundinacea Schreb.; S. radicans Dum. = F. pratensis Huds. Quelques remarques prcisent en outre l'tat des connaissances du genre Festuca en Belgique et au Luxembourg au dbut du XIXe sicle. 
10.2307/3668228|Chromosome counts (x = 15) for Diospyros zombensis (new), D. galpinii (new) and D. natalensis confirm the general picture based on earlier work. Some karyomorphological differences between these species are described. The possible ecological significance of polyploidy within the D. lycioides complex is discussed.
10.2307/3668254| The annotated index gives all names of taxa treated in the "Flore Gnrale de Belgique, Bryophytes", volume III, fascicles 1 & 2, and of some names used in recent European checklists or needed to clarify a point of nomenclature. The notes include some corrections of Index Muscorum. 
10.2307/3668092| Blindia acuta (= Dicranoloma cataractarum syn. nov.) is new for Zare and Runion. Comments on Pilopogon africanus (= P. africanus var. kivuensis syn. nov.), a species known from Zare and Rwanda, and new for Burundi. Key for Bryoerythrophyllum recurvirostre and B. afro-rubellum comb. nov. Key and comments on Orthodontium gracile and O. loreifolium. Orthostichidium involutifolium subsp. involutifolium is new for East Zare, and subsp. thomeanum for Runion. Distribution of Oligotrichum cavallii (= O. africanum syn. nov.). Seven species are illustrated. 
10.2307/3668296|Information is given for the 27 species of Diospyros (belonging to 11 sections) that are endemic to the Sudano-Zambezian super-region. Their distribution and ecology is considered at some length in relation to the regional phytochoria of the Unesco/AETFAT/UNSO "Vegetation map of Africa". For most species economic uses are briefly described, and more fully for three species, namely: D. mweroensis F. White, which yields a fish poison; D. chamaethamnus Dinter ex Mildbr., a food plant of the bushmen, and D. mespiliformis Hochst. ex A. DC., one of the most generally useful of all African trees. Eight species, D. capricornuta F. White, D. greenwayi F. White, D. kabuyeana F. White, D. kanurii F. White, D. magogoana F. White, D. occulta F. White, D. shimbaensis F. White and D. wajirensis F. White are new, as are two subspecies of D. abyssinica (Hiern) F. White (subsp. attenuata F. White and subsp. reticulata F. White). The taxonomy of seven critical species [D. natalensis (Harv.) Brenan, D. consolatae Chiov., D. rotundifolia Hiern, D. abyssinica (Hiern) F. White, D. cornii Chiov., D. kirkii Hiern and D. mespiliformis Hochst. ex A. DC.] is analysed in detail and in most cases pictorially displayed.
10.2307/3668470|Three species of Stylochaeton Leprieur are recognized in the Shaba Region (Zaire); two of them are new. A key of the three species is given, as well as their description (with illustration) and distribution (with map).
10.2307/3668215|The Begoniaceae have a dubious position in most systems of classification. The family is usually placed together with the Datiscaceae in or near the Violales. The ontogeny of the staminate flower of some species of Begonia reveals great similarity with the floral development of members of the Papaveraceae. Flower buds arise in the axil of a bract between two bracteoles. The two sepals emerge successively and cover the apex as a saccate envelop. Next one pair of petals is initiated in Begoniaceae and two pairs in Papaveraceae. The androecium is always initiated as four stamens opposite the sepals or outer petals. The next stamen whorls arise as groups of two, four or six stamens, or in an irregular manner. In Papaver, a broad ringwall becomes covered by stamens starting with four stamen primordia alternating with the petals. The pentamerous perianth of pistillate flowers of Begonia shows a clear derivation from two trimerous whorls of tepals, as exemplified by transitional stages and floral ontogeny. The different types of androecia and their derived states are discussed, and a comparison of floral diagrams is made. Other characters such as the floral vasculature, biochemistry, merosity, the interchangeability of petals and stamens and the perianth morphology are discussed as well and are in line with a magnolioid affinity. The reputably primitive genus Hillebrandia (Begoniaceae) is considered to be an isolated offshoot, not much related to the rest of the family. In our opinion, the Begoniaceae are not well placed in Violales but should be transferred to the Magnoliidae near the Papaverales. It is therefore suggested that Papaveraceae and Begoniaceae arose from a common stock, similar to certain trimerous Annonaceae, and were separated by extreme floral divergence.
10.2307/3668144|The Arisaema sikokianum group contains four related species of Japanese and Chinese origin. In the old literature already, a great confusion was present between them. As their correct determination is still a topical question, we made a comparative study based on existing literature and personal field notes in order to expound further on the source of the confusion. As a result a clear distinction is proposed on systematic and geographic basis.
10.2307/3667409|Revision of the genus Gladiolus L. (Iridaceae) in Zaire, in Rwanda and in Burundi. -- Description and diagnosis of the ten species which are growing in these countries.
10.2307/3667933| A taxonomic, ecological and chorological revision of the Guineo-Congolian species of Diospyros, including a key to the 52 species. Four new species and three subspecies are described. The citation of specimens is limited to one locality for each degree square. Distribution maps of all taxa will be published in Distributiones Plantarum Africanarum 14 (1978). Variation and relationships are discussed using the concepts of the monotypic and polytypic species, the ochlospecies, semi-species and superspecies. Three main centres of endemism, namely Upper Guinea, Lower Guinea and the Zare basin (Congolia), and two major intervals, the Dahomey interval and the Sangha River interval, are described. Attention is drawn to the diversity in growth form and reproductive biology found among sympatric species. 
10.2307/3667417|Description of a new species of Quararibea from Ecuador: Q. palenquiana A. Robyns.
10.2307/3667857|The morphology of the flowers and of the fruits, the first palynological studies and the phytogeographical distributions seem to indicate that, for the present time, it is better to follow I. Linczevski's conception, who subdivided the genus Gaillonia A. Rich. ex DC. in five genera, than to keep only one heterogeneous genus.
10.2307/3668395| Le Jebel Uweinat est un massif montagneux de 1900 m d'altitude environ, situ au coeur de l'immense Dsert de Libye,  la frontire entre la Libye, l'Egypte et le Sudan, en une rgion o les pluies sont exceptionnelles (fig. 1-2). La flore, trs pauvre, et la vgtation, trs maigre, de ce massif taient fort incompltement connues par suite de la difficult d'un sjour prolong  cause du manque de ravitaillement sur place. L'auteur rsume les rsultats de l'expdition scientifique interdisciplinaire belge qu'il a dirige en compagnie d'une quipe libyenne dont le botaniste tait L. Boulos. Cette expdition eut l'occasion de sjourner 3 mois au Jebel Uweinat, grce  l'aide technique de l'arme belge. Le gologue, J. Klerkx, a dress la carte gologique du massif qui est compos principalement d'une partie granitique et d'une partie grseuse (fig. 19 & 22). Le zoologiste, X. Misonne, a tudi les 8 espces de mammifres sauvages encore prsents et a montr qu'ils constituaient un ensemble dsertique isol prouvant que, depuis la priode nolithique, la rgion s'tait progressivement assche et que le Jebel Uweinat devait tre actuellement  un niveau d'aridit jamais atteint auparavant depuis cette priode. Grce  la collaboration du zoologiste, le botaniste a pu prciser l'influence des herbivores sauvages sur la vgtation et a pu tablir la chane alimentaire actuelle (fig. 20). Les gologues du Quaternaire (J. de Heinzelin et P. Haesaerts) et le prhistorien (F. Van Noten) ont trouv de nombreux sites archologiques  l'embouchure des larges valles et ont mis en vidence les diffrentes industries humaines qui se sont succdes au cours des derniers millnaires depuis l'Acheulen suprieur jusqu'au Nolithique rcent. L'tude de plus de 4000 gravures et peintures rupestres, effectue par F. Van Noten et X. Misonne, a montr qu'aprs des populations de chasseurs (de girafes, d'autruches et d'oryx aujourd'hui disparus, ainsi que de mouflons et de gazelles encore prsents), des populations de pasteurs s'taient tablies, d'abord avec des troupeaux de vaches, ensuite avec des troupeaux de chvres. 
10.2307/3668474|(14) Craterispermum inquisitorium, readily recognized by its longpedunculate two-forked inflorescences, is provisionally divided in two varieties, var. inquisitorium and var. longipedunculatum. C. brieyi is placed in synonymy with var. inquisitorium. The existing combination C. brieyi var. inquisitorium is shown to be illegitimate. (15) It is argued that the holotype of Nauclea diderrichii (basionym Sarcocephalus diderrichii) is not lost; the two neotypifications of the species are superfluous.
10.2307/3667718| Description, distribution and ecology of Hylocomiopsis cylindricarpa Thr., endemic in tropical Africa. Comparison with H. ovicarpa (Besch.) Card. from Japan and Korea. 
10.2307/3668247| Description d'une espce nouvelle de Rhynchosia du Gabon. 
10.2307/3667661|After discussing briefly the morphological homogeneity of the classical Sympetalae, where only true sympetaly occurs, the author gives a summary of the systems of orders of Sympetalae by Wettstein (1935), Melchior (1964) and Cronquist (1957, 1965, 1968). He proposes then a new system of orders and families based on the main evolutionary and progressive tendencies prevailing in the living Sympetalae. This system starts with the most simple haplostemonous and tetracyclic orders: the Ligustrales and Plantaginales, to end with the diplostemonous Ericales and finally with the pleiomerous Ebenales.
10.2307/3668113|8 species and 1 subspecies of Leptodontium occur in tropical Africa: L. flexifolium (With.) Hampe, L. viticulosoides (P. Beauv.) Wijk & Marg., L. pungens (Mitt.) Kindb., L. wallisii (C. Muell.) Kindb., L. luteum (Tayl.) Mitt., L. longicaule Mitt. var. longicaule, L. longicaule subsp. stellatum (Brid.) comb. nov., L. latifolium Broth. and L. capituligerum C. Muell. Key, synonyms, short descriptions, distributions, comments and illustrations of 8 taxons are given.
10.2307/3668151|Vigna pilosa (Willd.) Baker presents 2n = 22 chromosomes. The study of the fine structure of its pollen grains shows an infratectum of the columellar type and a colporated aperture.
10.2307/3668073|Description of a new species of Phyllobotryum from Zaire: P. maikoense P. Bamps & Lejoly.
10.2307/3668350| Variability of Aethusa cynapium L. (Apiaceae) in Belgium. Three subspecies are usually distinguished within A. cynapium: subsp. cynapium, subsp. agrestis (Wallr.) Dostl and subsp. cynapioides (Bieb.) Nyman. The study of the literature allowed me to define the dinstinctive characters between these taxa and to show that intermediate taxa have been described. The morphometric analysis of the Belgian material results in the recognition of three taxa at the rank of variety: var. cynapium, var. agrestis Wallr. and var. gigantea Leuj.; a fourth one, var. cynapioides (Bieb.) Ficinus & Heynh., who seems to agree with the tall specimens of Central Europe and Western Asia, may perhaps be distinguished. 
10.2307/3667419| The Euphorbia brevis-imitata-decidua complex is reviewed in some detail and some possible affinities discussed, with particular reference to sect. Ballyeuphorbia Croizat. The group is considered to be a relic from formerly heavier rainfall periods and now to be in a decline with the exception of the geophytic E. decidua. Distribution is almost trans-African between 8 and 17 S and a map is provided showing this. The species fall into two groups on leaf characters and are keyed out from this base. The taxa are discussed individually in detail, lectotypes are selected for E. brevis and E. imitata and descriptions of five new species provided. 
10.2307/3668443| Description d'une nouvelle section et d'une nouvelle espce d'Agelaea. 
10.2307/3667862| Two species of the familiy Lejeuneaceae (Hepaticae), collected at La Runion (Indian Ocean), are described for the first time: Marchesinia obtusifolia and Cheilolejeunea ecarinata. 
10.2307/3667620| L'tude du pollen d'une centaine d'espces de Bauhinieae a permis de confirmer certaines classifications de la tribu dont celle de de Wit pour les espces de Malaisie. Avec la rpartition du nombre d'tamines fertiles, la palynologie conduit  un morcellement de certains groupes. Le genre Bauhinia L., dans son sens le plus strict, est limit aux espces  une seule tamine fertile (Casparea). Les espces comptant gnralement 3 tamines se rpartissent entre les genres Phanera et Lasiobema. Les Perlebia,  3-5 tamines, sont spars des Pauletia. Ceux-ci possdent, en effet, 10 tamines fertiles de mme que les genres Adenolobus, Gigasiphon, Piliostigma, Lysiphyllum, Tylosema, Schnella et Binaria. Le genre Tournaya est cr pour Bauhinia gossweileri; un autre genre nouveau devra peut-tre accueillir B. cinnamomea. L'volution du pollen est compare  la phylognie foliaire. 
10.2307/3668290|The study of the seedlings and of the morpho-anatomy of the seeds, correlated with the study of the morphology of the leaves, the flowers and the fruits, shows that the genus Schotia only exists in Southern Africa (4 species), that the genus Leonardoxa is clearly distinct from Schotia, but comprises at present only the type-species Leonardoxa africana (previously Schotia africana), a Guineo-Congolian myrmecophyte, and that Schotia romii and S. bequaertii, subsequently included in the genus Leonardoxa, constitute a new genus, Normandiodendron, distributed in the eastern part of the Guineo-Congolian regional centre of endemism, chiefly in Zaire.
10.2307/3667909| Etude systmatique d'une partie de la collection de bryophytes effectue par F. Demaret au Ruwenzori en 1953 et 1957. Les spcimens tudis se rpartissent en 34 familles, 76 genres, 139 espces et varits. Ils proviennent des tages de vgtation suivants: fort ombrophile quatoriale, fort ombrophile de montagne, tage des bambous, tage des bruyres arborescentes, tage alpin. Une combinaison nouvelle est propose: Pohlia chrysoblasta (Thr. & Nav.) Demaret. 
10.2307/3667793| The monospecific genus Probletostemon was long considered a synonym of Tricalysia. Its type, T. elliotii, shares the following features with T. anomala and with T. trachycarpa (the latter is described here from the Zaire Basin): large pleiomerous flowers with free bracteoles, style and anthers (at least to some extent) hairy, standard colleters, and large fruits with a thick sclerotic wall. Probletostemon is therefore considered a section of subgenus Tricalysia comprising the species mentioned. A second new species (T. ferorum, Cameroun) of isolated position does not fully match with the enumerated characters but is also accommodated here. T. elliotii and T. anomala are widespread Guineo-Congolian species divided here into infraspecific taxa. T. trachycarpa and T. ferorum each are endemic to one Domain of the Guineo-Congolian Rgion. /// Le genre monospcifique Probletostemon est depuis longtemps considr comme synonyme de Tricalysia. Son type, T. elliotii, a en commun avec T. anomala et T. trachycarpa (espce nouvelle dcrite ici de la cuvette du Zare) les caractres suivants: grandes fleurs pliomres  bractoles libres, anthres et styles induments (au moins partiellement), colltres de type classique et fruits assez grands  paroi paisse et sclreuse. En consquence, Probletostemon est considr comme section du sous-genre Tricalysia. Une autre espce nouvelle (T. ferorum, Cameroun), isole sur le plan systmatique, est galement rattache  cette section bien que ses caractres ne correspondent pas entirement  ceux numrs ci-dessus. T. elliotii et T. anomala sont des espces guino-congolaises  large distribution subdivises ici en varits. T. trachycarpa et T. ferorum sont chacune endmiques  un domaine de la rgion guino-congolaise. 
10.2307/3667741|Based on detailed and extensive field observations, the variations in Treculia africana Decaisne subsp. africana (African breadfruit), an important food crop tree in southern Nigeria, are discussed. Three varieties are distinguished within the subspecies, namely var. africana, var. mollis, and a new variety, herein designated as var. inversa. A key to the three varieties is provided together with their detailed descriptions.
10.2307/3668166|The present monographic revision of the genus Dictyophleba (Apocynaceae), is mainly based on the examination of herbarium material. The genus belongs to the subtribe Landolphiinae of the tribe Carisseae. Dictyophleba is maintained in the same concept as with Pichon (1953). The genus is confined to Africa, and contains 5 species, one of which is described here as new to science. Pichon's sections of the genus are not maintained.
10.2307/3667893|6 species of Agaricus and 1 of Micropsalliota are fully described from Papua New Guinea: Agaricus cf. purpurellus, A. silvicola, A. volvatulus, A. novoguineensis sp. nov., A. leptomeleagris sp. nov., Agaricus sp. and Micropsalliota pseudoarginea sp. nov. The new species are illustrated.
10.2307/3668274| Keayodendron bridelioides Landri (Euphorbiaceae), originaire du Cameroun, a t rcolt pour la premire fois au Gabon. La typification de l'espce est rvise. La carte de distribution montre que son aire est trs dcoupe et que l'espce trouve sa limite mridionale dans le NE du Gabon. 
10.2307/3667757| The distribution of floral nectaries in the Magnoliatae is studied by means of Dahlgren's (1975, 1980) classification diagrams. For this purpose two types of floral nectaries, nectaria caduca and nectaria persistentia, were distinguished on the basis of their nature and their localization. Nectaria caduca mainly occur in the Magnoliidae, the Caryophyllidae and the Dilleniidae; nectaria persistentia are typical of the Rosidae and the Asteridae. The Hamamelidae are characterized by the absence of nectaries. On the basis of the resulting diagrams and after additional character research a more detailed typification could be set up. Nectaria trichomalia, which occur mainly in the Asteridae, were separated as an additional type; on the other hand, as well the nectaria caduca as the nectaria persistentia showed to comprise several character states. The characters and their character states are represented in a scheme, which, however, does not suggest phyletic lines for the character states of nectaria caduca and nectaria persistentia. Nectaria septalia, which are often found in the Liliatae, constitute a fourth type of nectaries; they are not clearly related to the nectary types of the Magnoliatae. The study of floral nectaries undoubtedly contributes to a better understanding of the relationships among the higher taxa of the Magnoliophytina (Angiosperms). /// L'occurrence des nectaires floraux est tudie dans les Magnoliatae  l'aide des systmes de classification bi-dimensionels de Dahlgren (1975, 1980). D'aprs la stucture et la localisation nous distinguons deux types de nectaires, que nous appelons " nectaria caduca " et " nectaria persistentia ". Les " nectaria caduca " caracterisent les Magnoliidae, Caryophyllidae et Dilleniidae, tandis que les " nectaria persistentia " sont typiques pour les Rosidae et Asteridae. Les Hamamelidae ne possdent pas de nectaires. Une tude approfondie du nectaire, ainsi que la rpartition au sein des Magnoliatae des deux types prcits, permettent d'isoler un caractre supplmentaire, prsent principalement dans les Asteridae, que nous appelons " nectaria trichomalia ", ainsi que plusieurs modes d'expression des " nectaria caduca " et " nectaria persistentia ". Ces diffrents modes d'expression sont prsents synthtiquement en un schma sans prtention phylogntique. Les nectaires septaux (" nectaria septalia "), trs frquents chez les Liliatae, forment un quatrime type sans relations videntes avec les types de nectaires des Magnoliatae. L'tude des nectaires floraux contribue de faon certaine  une meilleure comprhension des relations phylogntiques au niveau des taxons suprieurs des Magnoliophytina (Angiospermes). 
10.2307/3668458| Yangambi (0046' N, 2427' E) is situated in the zone of the dense equatorial forest on the right bank of the Zaire River, about 90 km downwards from Kisangani. Eighty-eight taxa of diatoms were identified in algal samples from small watercourses of the neighbourhood of Yangambi. The clustering of these samples shows some similarity between the diatom assemblages from the Ranalisma humile-Eichhornia natans association in the Bohonde River and from the Potamogeton octandrus community in the Lubilu; 51% of the taxa found in these samples are typical of waters with a low mineral content, acidic or even dystrophic. A similarity was also found between the assemblages of the samples collected at the surface of the mud in the Liturumbu River, near its confluence with the Zaire River; these samples showed a relatively species-rich diatom flora, comprising, next to some acidophilic taxa, a larger number of species whose optimal development occurs mostly in waters with a higher mineral content, neutral or even slightly basic. Most taxa have a cosmopolitan or subcosmopolitan distribution. However, 18 taxa may be considered as having a pantropical, paleotropical or African distribution. 
10.2307/3668248| Description d'une nouvelle espce, Trichoscypha gambana (Anacardiaceae), du Gabon. 
10.2307/3668318|Description of three new species of Vernonia Schreb. (Asteraceae) from Shaba (Zaire).
10.2307/3667988|Third contribution to the study of the Bryophytes, gathered by the author on different islands of the Indian Ocean. Three species of Bazzania are described as new and illustrated.
10.2307/3668299|Descriptions or short diagnoses are provided for some new taxa of Central African Russulae: Russula acuminata, R. roseoalba, R. kivuensis, R. inflata, R. intricata, R. brunneorigida and its var. brachystegiensis, R. meleagris, R. diffusa and its var. fissurans, R. concolora, R. acriuscula, R. viscidula, R. congoana Pat. var. djongoensis, R. bururiensis, R. sejuncta, R. oinochroa, R. testacea and R. tomentosa. R. velutina (Bres.) Buyck comb. nov. is proposed.
10.2307/3667663| Les affinits entre cytotypes diplode et ttraplode d' Asplenium ruta-muraria L. ont t tudies par l'observation cytologique de l'hybride triplode et d'un autottraplode produit par aposporie. Le triplode est caractris par une frquence leve de trivalents et la miose est trs irrgulire chez l'autottraplode artificiel. En conclusion, la subsp. ruta-muraria doit tre un autottraplode driv de croisements intraspcifiques, mais elle n'a pas t forme  partir de la forme diplode par un simple doublement du nombre chromosomique. L'homologie entre ses gnomes est plus grande que chez A. trichomanes et A. septentrionale. /// The relationships between diploid and tetraploid cytotypes of Asplenium ruta-muraria L. have been studied by cytological observation of the triploid hybrid between them and of an autotetraploid induced by apospory. The triploid was characterized by a high trivalent frequency and the induced autotetraploid showed a very irregular meiosis. It was concluded that subsp. ruta-muraria is an autotetraploid derived from intraspecific crossing but was not formed by a simple chromosome doubling from a diploid cytotype. The homology between its genomes is higher than for A. trichomanes and A. septentrionale. 
10.2307/3668400| The genus Antidesma L. (Euphorbiaceae) comprises 5 shrubby species very common and previously frequently confused in central Africa: A. laciniatum Mll. Arg. subsp. laciniatum and subsp. membranaceum (Mll. Arg.) J. Lonard comb. nov. and A. vogelianum Mll. Arg., both in rain forests and riverine forests; A. membranaceum Mll. Arg. and A. venosum E. Mey. ex Tul., both very common in secondary grasslands and miombo woodlands, but absent in rain forests; A. rufescens Tul. by streamsides. 
10.2307/3668111|Description of three new species of Russula from Zaire: R. fimbriata, R. pausiaca and R. ciliata.
10.2307/3667433| Carex praecox Schreb. a t dcouvert en lisire du bois de Bnamont, prs de Bathelmont (Meurthe-et-Moselle, France). L'espce pourrait tre nouvelle pour la Lorraine. Les caractres distinctifs par rapport  C. curvata Knaf sont prciss sur les plans morphologique, cologique et phytosociologique. Il existe aux Pays-Bas une plante  caractres intermdiaires entre C. ligerica Gay et C. brizoides L. /// Carex praecox Schreb. has been found at the outskirts of the Benamont forest, near Bathelmont (Meurthe-et-Moselle, France). The species seems to be new in Lorraine. The characteristics with respect to C. curvata Knaf are defined on the morphological, ecological and phytosociological levels. In the Netherlands, a plant with characters intermediate between C. ligerica Gay and C. brizoides L. is found. 
10.2307/3667934| Poeciloneuron indicum diffre de P. pauciflorum notamment par la nature des anthres (lobules), l'inflorescence (une panicule  plusieurs fleurs) et le nombre des spales (5). Le pollen de la premire espce est petit avec l'endoaperture perpendiculaire  l'ectoaperture tandis que celui de la seconde espce est plus grand avec l'endoaperture parallle  l'ectoaperture. L'tude microscopique lectronique  balayage montre une diffrence de plus: les crtres tectales sont lisses pour P. indicum alors qu'elles portent des projections verruqueuses pour P. pauciflorum. 
10.2307/3668106|Description of a new species of Buchnera L. from Shaba in Zaire.
10.2307/3667853|Description of Ancistrocladus robertsoniorum (Ancistrocladaceae), a new species from the Buda coastal forests of Kenya, which represents a geographical link between the Guineo-Congolian African species of the genus and the tropical Asiatic ones.
10.2307/3668276| Cinq espces nouvelles de Combretum du Gabon sont dcrites: C. oudenhovenii, C. echirense, C. adrianii, C. esteriense et C. ndjoleense. 
10.2307/3667777|Geographical distribution of 28 species and 1 variety of Polystachya Hook.
10.2307/3668012|A survey of the genera of the Pavetteae is given. Coptosperma, Santalina, Pachystylus, Stylocoryna, Bonatia, Canthiopsis and Tennantia are related to Tarenna. The following genera are considered allied to Ixora: Myonima, Hitoa, Doricera, Thouarsiora and Versteegia. Coleactina is accepted as affiliated to Leptactina. Duperrea remains of unknown affinity within the tribe. Some poorly known Madagascan genera suspected of belonging to the Pavetteae, viz. Paracephaelis, Schizenterospermum, Homollea and Homoliella, are briefly discussed. Finally the following genera may definitely be excluded from the tribe: Gardeniopsis, Brachytome, Strumpfia, Phyllomelia and Cosmocalyx. The characters of the Pavetteae are reviewed. With the exception of the pantropical genus Ixora, the tribe is paleotropical.
10.2307/3668107|New names and combinations are proposed in Chroomonas (Cryptophyceae), Trachelomonas and Pseudoperanema (Euglenophyceae).
10.2307/3668390|A new genus of Burseraceae, Pseudodacryodes Pierlot, from the montainous region of eastern Dem. Rep. of Congo (ex-Zaire), is described, with P. leonardiana Pierlot sp. nov. as the type species.
10.2307/3667887|The author describes 5 new species, makes 4 new combinations and proposes 1 new name in the genera Brachycorythis Lindley, Cynorkis Thouars, Disa Bergius, Habenaria Willd., Platycoryne Reichenb. f. and Vanilla Miller.
10.2307/3668354|Asystasia ammophila, a new species endemic to Ethiopia, is described. Detailed palynological information, ecological and distributional data are also given.
10.2307/3667963|Description of a Paspalum virgatum community in the city of Kisangani, including the ecological conditions, the floristic composition, the physiognomy, the growth forms, the phytogeographical structure and the systematic position.
10.2307/3668142| Description d'une espce nouvelle d'Agelaea Sol. ex Planch. (Connaraceae) du Gabon. 
10.2307/3667781|The study of type material of Bryum dichotomum Hedw., B. bulbillosum Mont. and B. bicolor Dicks. allows the authors to maintain these three taxa as distinct, although Ochi (1970: 17-21, fig. 5-7) considered them to belong to only one species, B. bicolor. The distinctive characters of the three species and of B. barnesii Wood are given in a table and are illustrated.
10.2307/3667979| Six species of Neckera occur in tropical Africa. A key is given for their determination. Three species (N. platyantha, N. remota and N. submacrocarpa), observed in the field, are described and illustrated. New synonyms: N. subplatyantha Broth. = N. platyantha (C. Mll.) Par.; N. gromieri Thr. and N. subremota C. Mll. ex Dus. = N. remota Bruch & Schimp. ex C. Mll.; N. macrocarpa Broth. = N. submacrocarpa Dix. Two species of Neckeropsis were collected: N. disticha and N. hookeriacea (C. Mll. ex Dus.) Fleisch. New synonyms: Neckera extans Besch. and N. occidentalis Besch. = Neckeropsis disticha (Hedw.) Kindb. 
10.2307/3668285|Plagiomnium undulatum (Hedw.) T. Kop. is for the first time reported from continental East Africa. It was collected in Ethiopia in the Bale Mts at 3 370 - 3 480 m in upper montane Philippia -- Hagenia forests. The nearest known localities are in Israel and Lebanon. The distribution of P. undulatum is mapped and a revised key to tropical African Plagiomnium T. Kop. given.
10.2307/3668074|Until recently Trichocladus ellipticus subsp. malosanus was known in Central Africa only from 4 localities in Kivu and High-Shaba. Our collection and the recent observations of other botanists extend this area to the North (High-Zaire) and to the East (Rwanda and Burundi).
10.2307/3667677|Six new taxa are described: Agaricus bambusae Beeli var. australis Heinem. and A. viridopurpurascens Heinem. of the typical subgenus, sect. Arvenses, A. horakii Heinem., A. lanatoniger Heinem., A. purpureoniger Heinem. and A. oligocystis Heinem., all four pertaining to subgenus Lanagaricus.
10.2307/3668437|A synopsis of the twenty species of the genus Odontadenia (Apocynaceae, Apocynoideae) is presented here. One new section and three new species are described. Keys, descriptions, distributional data and taxonomic index are provided.
10.2307/3668219| Description of a new species of Buxus from Shaba (Zare). 
10.2307/3667597| I. A description is given of Volvariella volvacea (Fr.) Sing. var. masseei Sing. ad interim, based on fruitbodies obtained in culture from south-east Asian material. A remarkable feature of the mycelium is the plentiful formation of rounded chlamydospores over 50 m broad. The cytology of this species follows the classical pattern in the hymenium and the subhymenium; the spores are uninucleate and there are no residual nuclei in the basidium; the larger cells of the mycelium, as well as those of the carpophores, normally countain from 2 to 6 dicaryons; 2n = 8. Several studies, indicated in the references, were based on the material here described. II. Description of Volvariella microspora Heinem. sp. nov., and formation of a new combination, V. palmicola (Beeli) Heinm. 
10.2307/3667763|All available Belgian Kurzia collections have been revised. A determination key to the three European Kurzia species, based on characters of the female and the male inflorescence, is presented. Many collections of K. pauciflora were in fact misidentified. They contained most often K. sylvatica but also K. trichoclados, new for the Belgian flora. Distribution and habitat of the Kurzia species in Belgium, a description of K. trichoclados, based on Belgian material, and a preliminary map of the European distribution of K. trichoclados are given.
10.2307/3667926| Les auteurs rattachent  Bryum bicolor Dicks., par suite de la prsence de propagules gemmiformes caractristiques de cette espce, 28 spcimens provenant de Belgique, des Pays-Bas et d'Italie qui sont galement caractriss par la prsence de propagules tubriformes sur les rhizodes, ainsi que par les feuilles suprieures et les cailles de propagules gemmiformes longuement acumines. Comme aucune constance dans la prsence de ces trois derniers caractres n'a t observe et qu'aucune corrlation n'existe entre eux, ni avec l'ge des plantes, ni avec le milieu o elles poussent, ni avec les saisons pendant lesquelles ont lieu les rcoltes, la cration d'un taxon diffrent ne se justifie pas. 
10.2307/3668334|Description of a new Xyris, X. dilungensis Brylska, from Shaba (Zaire).
10.2307/3667990| A key is given for 8 species of Andreaea; the sporophyte of A. tsaratananae, new record for La Runion, is described for the first time; A. alticaulis is a new synonym of A. mildbraedii; A. obovata is a new record for Africa. Three species are keyed for the genus Racomitrium; R. defoliatum is a new synonym of R. nigro-viride, new record for Rwanda; R. durum is synonym with R. alare; R. lepervanchei seem distinct from R. crispulum. Gymnostomiella tanganyikae is a new species collected once in Burundi. Thuidium chenagonii, T. ramusculosum and T. varians are new records for Rwanda. Most of the species (except for Thuidium) are illustrated. 
10.2307/3668297|Rehabilitation of Pterocarpus tessmannii Harms, previously excluded from the genus, by the examination of the pod (fig. 1 B). A complementary description and a key of the species in the range of the "Flore d'Afrique centrale" are given.
10.2307/3667836|Under axenic conditions, mycorrhizae have been synthetized between 33 species and varieties of Betula and Pisolithus arhizus. The species of Betula, pertaining to the different sections of the genus, have shown an equal ability to form mycorrhizae which look much alike from a morphological point of view. As a conclusion it may be presumed that all species of the genus Betula may form mycorrhizae with Pisolithus, at least under laboratory conditions, though this may not be possible in nature owing to ecology and geographic distribution.
10.2307/3667805|Four new taxa of diatoms are described: one from Sumatra (Surirella pseudotenuissima) and three from oligotrophic running waters of Belgium (Surirella roba, S. celtica var. constricta and Achnanthes rechtensis). Physico-chemical analyses enabled us to precise their ecology.
10.2307/3668075|Three species hitherto not yet mentioned from Zaire are reported: Ageratum houstonianum Mill., Rivina humilis L. and Eleutheranthera ruderalis (Sw.) Sch. Bip.
10.2307/3667590| Deux espces nouvelles de Boraginaces, Arnebia latebracteata H. Riedl sp. nov. et Lappula leonardii H. Riedl sp. nov., sont dcrites de la rgion orientale dsertique de l'Iran; leurs affinits taxonomiques sont discutes; leurs morphologies et leurs distributions gographiques sont compares avec celles des espces voisines. 
10.2307/3667664|A new hyphomycete, Sporoschismopsis moravica Hol.-Jech. & Hennebert, has been found on decayed wood in Czechoslovakia. The fungus is dematiaceous with pseudoendogenous septate brown conidia. The relationship between the closely related genera Sporoschisma Berk. & Br., Catenularia Grove and others is also discussed here.
10.2307/3668457| Description of a new species, C. akeassii J. Lonard, from Ivory Coast and Ghana, belonging to the tropical African genus Crotonogynopsis Pax (Euphorbiaceae). 
10.2307/3667819|The genus Afrardisia Mez is considered not to be generically distinct from Ardisia Sw. and the synonymy is established. A key and a list of all African species of Ardisia with localities is given; these are used for drawing the map of the general distribution of the genus and the distribution maps of the species, to be published in Distr. Pl. Afr. 15 (1979). 17 new species are described and several new combinations are made.
10.2307/3667760|Delilia biflora (L.) Kuntze, not yet known from continental Africa, has been collected in the Ivory Coast in 1967. This ruderal species, indigenous in Latin America, is introduced in the Cape Verde Islands. The genus Delilia Sprengel and the species D. biflora are described.
10.2307/3667816|A close examination of numerous West-African specimens belonging to sect. Combretastrum Eichl. shows that Combretum afzelii Engl. & Diels and C. cuspidatum Planch. ex Benth. are the only 2 West-African species, C. insulare Engl. & Diels being a new synonym of C. cuspidatum.
10.2307/3667482|The description of a new genus Hymenocoleus is given. Eight species are recognized. H. barbatus Robbrecht, H. multinervis Robbrecht and H. petitianus Robbrecht are new species. H. hirsutus (Benth.) Robbrecht, H. libericus (A. Chev. ex Hutch. & Dalz.) Robbrecht and H. rotundifolius (A. Chev. ex Hepper) Robbrecht were originally placed in Geophila D. Don, H. thollonii (De Wild.) Robbrecht in Uragoga Baill. and H. neurodictyon (K. Schum.) Robbrecht first in Psychotria L. and later in Geophila D. Don. Besides two provisional taxa, awaiting for better material, are mentioned. The genus is, among other things, characterized by the presence of a membranous sheath inside the stipules and by the watery inflated drupes with 2 ecostate pyrenes dehiscent by 2 basal fissures. A discussion of the floral biology and the palynology of the genus is given.
10.2307/3668394| The seedlings of 3 Caesalpiniaceae (Detarieae and Amherstieae), Aphanocalyx margininervatus J. Lonard, Detarium macrocarpum Harms and Gilletiodendron pierreanum (Harms) J. Lonard, are described. The structure of these seedlings is exactly the same as the structure of the seedlings previously known of these 3 genera. This similarity confirms not only the homogeneity of these genera, but also the fact that, in these two tribes, there is only one type of seedling in each genus. The seedlings of Oddoniodendron micranthum (Harms) Baker f. (Amherstieae), a genus of the "Berlinia complex", of which the seedlings were still unknown, are also described. The peculiar structure of the seedlings of this species, formerly placed in Berlinia, corroborates the validity of the genus Oddoniodendron. A key is given for the seedlings of 7 out of the 8 genera of the "Berlinia complex". This key confirms the generic value of the structure of the seedlings amongst the Amherstieae and shows, here also, that there is only one type of seedling in each genus. At present, the seedlings of 135 African species of these two tribes are known, i.e. 39-40% of the African species included in these tribes. These species belong to 44 out of the 52 African genera included in these two tribes, i.e. 84,6% of the African genera of these tribes. 
10.2307/3668006|Description of 10 new species of Thesium L. subsect. Fimbriata A. W. Hill from Zaire and Burundi.
10.2307/3668137| Le genre Stemodiopsis Engl. est examin et les caractres gnriques sont brivement discuts. Parmi les 11 noms publis, seulement 5 espces, S. rivae Engl., S. buchananii Skan, S. eylesii S. Moore, S. linearis S. Moore et S. glandulosa Philcox sont acceptes. Les espces connues de l'Afrique Centrale (Zare, Rwanda, Burundi) sont dcrites en dtail. Stemodiopsis scaettae Staner est mis dans le genre Crepidorhopalon  cause des tamines abaxiales et des poils claviformes  base pluricellulaire. La nouvelle combinaison C. scaettae (Staner) E. Fischer est faite. 
10.2307/3668139| Description d'une nouvelle espce, Plectranthus globosus Ryding (Lamiaceae) du Zare. L'anatomie du pricarpe est incluse dans la description. 
10.2307/3667721|Ardisia brandneriana L. Linden (Myrsinaceae), described in 1900 from Gabon, is proved to be a Psychotria species (Rubiaceae). A new combination in this genus is proposed. Some historical comment on the type collection is given.
10.2307/3667736|Ten new species and two new varieties are described in the genera Gutenbergia Sch. Bip., Bothriocline Oliver and Volkensia O. Hoffman (Asteraceae: Vernonieae). Five species are transferred from the genus Erlangea Sch. Bip. to the genus Bothriocline Oliv. A key to distinguish these genera is given.
10.2307/3667922|The species of Aframomum related to A. polyanthum are revised. A. polyanthum, previously known only from north of the Equator, is recorded from Zambia. A. zambesiacum is shown to have an extensive but discontinuous range from Malawi to Cameroun, with a new subspecies in Ethiopia. A. keniense and A. chlamydanthum become synonyms of A. zambesiacum.
10.2307/3667679|A key to the nine species of Ceropegia occuring in the Region of Shaba (formerly Katanga) is given. Seven species, for which additional material was gathered, are described and illustrated.
10.2307/3668225|A survey of the Agaricaceae in South America, north of the 40th parallel and up to the Tropic of Capricorne, comprises 40 taxa some of which are fully described from local collections. Keys are provided which contains 18 more species as guide marks for future investigations. New species: Agaricus chacoensis, cheilotulus, spegazzinianus, sulcatellus, tucumanensis and unguentolens. New name: Agaricus martineziensis (A. volvatus Martinez non Peck, non Pearson).
10.2307/3668053|The author describes 5 new species and 2 new varieties, and makes a few new combinations, in the genera Brachycorythis Lindley, Cynorkis Thouars, Disa Bergius and Habenaria Willd. A section from Habenaria is elevated to the rank of genus: Kryptostoma (Summerh.) Geerinck.
10.2307/3667858|Heliotropium micranthos (Pallas) Bunge and H. remotiflorum Rech. f. & H. Riedl were not mentioned for Iran in Rechinger's Flora Iranica (48. 1967). Both are annuals from desert sandy regions, the former is an Irano-Turanian species 'going down' to the Lut desert in the center of Iran, whereas the latter is a Saharo-Sindian species 'going up' to the Lut desert.
10.2307/3667493| Les nombres chromosomiques somatiques ont t tablis chez 80 taxons d'Angiospermes du Rwanda, Burundi et Kivu (Afrique centre-orientale). Des sources consultes, il apparat que la caryologie de 36 de ces taxons n'avait pas t tudie auparavant. Les comptages effectus sur du matriel d'Anisopappus (Asteraceae), Kotschya (Fabaceae) et Sericostachys (Amaranthaceae) semblent constituer de nouvelles donnes gnriques. La taxonomie et les nombres chromosomiques de certaines espces sont aussi discuts. /// Somatic chromosome numbers are reported for 80 taxa of Angiosperms from Rwanda, Burundi and Kivu (East central Africa). As far as the authors are aware, 36 of the taxa have not previously been studied caryologically. The counts on Anisopappus (Asteraceae), Kotschya (Fabaceae) and Sericostachys (Amaranthaceae) seem to be new generic reports. Comments are given on the taxonomy and the chromosome numbers of some species. 
10.2307/3667983| Description of four new species: Leucocoprinus pepinosporus, L. submontagnei, L. thoenii and L. violaceus; and of two new sections: Leucocoprinus sect. Pepinospori and sect. Velutipedes. Two new names: Leucocoprinus beelianus (for Lepiota citrinella Beeli) and L. velutipes (for L. flavescens Beeli); and four new combinations (all from Lepiota) are established: L. discoideus, L. elaidis, L. flavus and L. noctiphilus. An extended study, with colour plates, of these taxa as well as of others species of Leucocoprinus will appear in Flore illustre des champignons d'Afrique centrale, fasc. 5. 
10.2307/3668184|A taxonomic revision of the Irvingiaceae is presented. Three genera Desbordesia (1 species), Klainedoxa (2 species) and Irvingia (6 species) are recognised. Standard herbarium characters are not very useful in the identification of the species of Irvingia. Additional field characters and in particular fruit characters facilitate identification.
10.2307/3668472|The pioneer vegetation growing on the periodically flooded parts of the sandstone cliffs near Yanonge (Zaire) is made of a rich bryophytic community (16 species) dominated by Taxithelium subrotundatulum and Marchantia debilis. To this community succeeds a Biophytum zenkeri and Lepidagathis alopecuroides association (19 species) in which some pioneer species of a periodically flooded shrubby vegetation are already present. This bryophytic community, which also exists on the Yangambi cliffs, is different from the periodically flooded Marchantia debilis - Garckea comosa bryophytic association growing on the sandy cliffs of Yaselia studied by Demaret in 1954. The comparison between the synthetical association tables of the Biophytum and Lepidagathis vegetations growing on the Yanonge cliffs and on a periodically flooded rocky bank near the Tshopo waterfalls shows that this Biophytum and Lepidagathis association is characterized by 5 species, 2 of them, Biophytum zenkeri and Lepidagathis alopecuroides, being always present with a high cover-value. Three other species, although less frequent, Pycreus smithianus, Hybanthus enneaspermus and Anubias heterophylla, seem to find their optimum of development in this association.
10.2307/3667942| Une espce nouvelle du genre Physalacria est dcrite du Rwanda. Dans le genre elle est bien caractrise par des grandes macrocystides claviformes, des basides 4-sporiques et des petites spores. 
10.2307/3667475|Forty-five species (fifteen of them new for the territory) of Sclerodermatales, Tulostomatales (ordo nov.) and Lycoperdales have been found in Belgium. They are keyed and described and special attention is given to their ecology and chorology.
10.2307/3668029|Six new species of Micropsalliota from the Coast of Malabar (Kerala, India) are fully described and illustrated: M. alba, M. avellanea, M. cymbispora, M. malabarensis, M. pleurocystidiata and M. subalba.
10.2307/3667665|The chromosome numbers of 30 species of flowering plants collected in Africa were determined. The numbers given for 15 species are new.
10.2307/3667800| L'tude des grains d'amidon du latex des Euphorbes " coralliformes " de Madagascar a t entreprise dans le but de trouver un caractre permettant de dissocier des espces proches. Cela n'a pas t le cas, mais, il a t remarqu qu'au sein d'une mme espce, les pieds prs de la mer ont des grains de dimension suprieure  ceux poussant en altitude. D'autre part la dimension varie en fonction de la priode du cycle de vie: repos, floraison ou priode vgtative. /// The size and shape of starch grains in latex of some Euphorbia from Madagascar have been observed. Some variations in relation with the life cycle and the geographical repartition are noted, but the shape of the grains does not seem to constitute a good taxonomical character. 
10.2307/3668374|The monographic revision of the genus Baissea (Apocynaceae) presented here is based on the examination of herbarium material. The genus belongs to the subtribe Ichnocarpinae of the tribe Apocyneae. It is confined to continental Africa and contains 18 species of which 2 are new. All species are presented with a full description, illustration and a distribution map. A key to the species facilitates identification and a list of exsiccatae is added.
10.2307/3667544| Rvision taxonomique base sur les collections des herbiers les plus importants pour ce genre, qui se place mieux dans les Passifloraceae que dans les Flacourtiaceae. Une espce nouvelle, P. grandiflora Sleum., est dcrite de Madagascar. /// Taxonomic revision on the base of the collections of the herbaria most important for the genus, which finds its place with more certainty within the Passifloraceae than the Flacourtiaceae. One new species, P. grandiflora Sleum., is described from Madagascar. 
10.2307/3668030| A new key is given of the 34 known species and varieties of Micropsalliota, and also of 3 species at present placed in Agaricus. The genus is divided into 4 groups based on the colour of the pileus and on the habit of the fruitbody. Comments are given on the characters used to define the genus. A slenderness index is proposed, IG =
10.2307/3667898|Type specimens of Boletochaete spinifer and Tubosaeta brunneosetosa have been critically studied. The opinions expressed in the literature, especially regarding the presence and differentiation of cystidia and setae, are very confusing. This study reveals that Boletochaete (Gyrodontaceae) has no thick-walled setae, the latter are present however in Tubosaeta (Boletaceae). The recent collection of a Central African bolete, combining gyroporoid spores with numerous thick-walled setae as well as leptocystidia, necessitates the creation of the new genus Setogyroporus, with S. verus sp. nov. A key to the genera is provided.
10.2307/3668373| A forest with Parinari excelsa and Diospyros conocarpa is studied in the Kikwit region by means of the Zrich-Montpellier phytosociogical method. A detailed analysis of its floristic composition is given, as well as its biological, diaspore and leaf types, and phytogeographical spectra. The main edaphical data are also given. From a syngenetic point of view, this forest represents the regional climax. 
10.2307/3667856| The study of a natural population of Micrasterias C. Agardh ex Ralfs enables us to describe a new species, M. comperei, which differs from all the other species of the genus by the peculiar shape of the polar lobe. M. radiata var. bilobata Frster, provided with a similar polar lobe is ascribed to our new species as a variety under the name M. comperei var. bilobata. 
10.2307/3667713|A survey has been made on 510 fern species belonging to 240 of the 282 genera in Copeland's "Genera Filicum" (excl. Hymenophyllaceae and Hymenophyllopsidaceae, devoid of stomata) and 11 species of 11 genera not mentioned by Copeland. In all these species the epidermal and stomatal characters were studied; the classification of Copeland has been followed in listing the observations. Special attention is drawn to the different types of the adult stomata and 5 new descriptive terms have been chosen for types apparently not occuring in Monoor Dicotyledons. Evidence is given of the diagnostic value of the stomatal type and, in correlation with cytological data, an attempt has been made to show that characters of adult stomata in some families can be used as indicators of natural taxonomic affinity or even interrelationships between families. The possible variation of epidermal and stomatal characters was studied in a cosmopolitan species, Pteridium aquilinum (L.) Kuhn, showing the constancy for one species of several stomatal characters such as: type, structure, distribution, position and orientation, and, on the other hand, the variability of some epidermal characters such as: the undulation of the anticlinal walls and the dimensions of the cells. In the Filicopsida nine stomatal types were found: anomocytic, diacytic, cyclocytic, paracytic and the five "new" types, hypocytic, pericytic, desmocytic, polocytic and staurocytic. It seems to be significant that in some families differences in stomatal type coincide with splits already proposed by taxonomists.
10.2307/3667593|Description of a new species of Bignociaceae from Angola, Rhigozum angolense P. Bamps; key to the four Angolan species and their distribution maps in Angola.
10.2307/3668339|Descriptions of a new species in the genera Bidens L., Conyza L. and Crassocephalum Moench. A key to the Bidens of the Flora of Central Africa is provided and some synonymies and new combinations are made.
10.2307/3668094| Description d'une nouvelle espce d'Hunteria, H. ghanensis Hall Leeuwenberg, en provenance du Ghana mridional. 
10.2307/3668441|A new species of Ixora, I. manantoddii, from Kerala, India is described and illustrated. Pollen morphology of the new species has been studied by SEM & LM.
10.2307/3668052| In Zare, the genus Bonamia includes two species: B. vignei and B. spectabilis. B. vignei, known until now only from Ghana, is new for the flora of Central Africa. 
10.2307/3668475|At the end of 1940, 9705 species of Spermatophyta were mentioned in Central Africa (Zaire, Rwanda, Burundi). At the end of 1990, i.e. 50 years later, thanks to the publication of the Flore d'Afrique centrale, 4636 species were already described, 697 of them (15%) being considered as new for Science. After close examination, it appears that: 1, the number of the species mentioned in 1940 which have fallen into synonymy has been almost entirely counter-balanced by the discovery of new species; 2, the foreseeable number of Spermatophyta existing in Central Africa should statistically reach 9377 species; 3, nearly half of these putative species have therefore already been described (4636 in 50 years); 4, more or less 4741 species are still to be described, some of them could be new for Science.
10.2307/3668199| A new combination is presented in the genus Ageratinastrum Mattf. and the presence of the genus Brachythrix Wild & Pope is mentioned for the first time in Zare and Tanzania; a distribution map of B. brevipapposa Wild & Pope is given. A new species of Vernonia Schreb. is described. 
10.2307/3668204|List of 127 genera including 278 species of mosses gathered by the author during his three stays in Sri Lanka. Places visited are indicated on a map.
10.2307/3668376| Dipteropeltis, petit genre des Convolvulaceae de l'Afrique centrale, est tudi et sa position gnrique discute. Une nouvelle espce, D. macrantha du Gabon, est dcrite et illustre. Une cl pour les trois espces connues  prsent est donne et la distinction entre D. poranoides et D. mayumbensis est discute. Des cartes de distribution des espces sont figures. 
10.2307/3668134|A new Malagasy convolvulaceous species: Metaporana verdcourtii is described, and some morphological data on the until unknown fruits of M. parvifolia var. pilosa are given, emphasizing the significance of ovule abortion in the interpretation of the placentation. The now recognized four Malagasy species of the genus are mapped. Their distribution, ecology, and affinities are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3667874|The distribution and ecology of the three African and the single Malagasy species of Parkia (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae) are described in some detail. The citation of specimens is limited to one per degree square. The diagnostic features of each species are briefly summarized. Attention is drawn to the possible historical significance of some of the ecogeographical facts recorded.
10.2307/3667488| Gasteromycetes recently collected in Eastern Central Africa by Belgian botanists have been critically studied. Thirty nine species have been recorded. One is decribed as new (Corditubera kivuensis). The new combinations Corditubera bovonei (Matt.) Demoulin & Dring, Vascellum endotephrum (Pat.) Demoulin & Dring and Langermannia bicolor (Lv.) Demoulin & Dring are introduced. Among the species studied, ten had not been formerly recorded either in East or Central Africa, two are new for Africa (Nidula niveo-tomentosa and Mutinus bambusinus s. str.), four are recorded for the first time since their original description (Bovista aenea, Lycoperdon bicolor, Cyathus africanus, Mutinus zenkeri). Les Gastromyctes rcemment rcolts dans l'Est de l'Afrique Centrale par des botanistes belges ont fait l'objet d'une tude critique. Trenteneuf espces ont t recueillies. L'une d'elles est dcrite comme nouvelle (Corditubera kivuensis). Les nouvelles combinaisons Corditubera bovonei (Matt.) Demoulin & Dring, Vascellum endotephrum (Pat.) Demoulin & Dring et Langermannia bicolor (Lv.) Demoulin & Dring sont introduites. Parmi les espces tudies, dix n'avaient pas t indiques prcdemment en Afrique Centrale ni Orientale, deux sont nouvelles pour l'Afrique (Nidula niveo-tomentosa et Mutinus bambusinus s. str.); quatre sont signales pour la premire fois depuis leur description originale (Bovista aenea, Lycoperdon bicolor, Cyathus africanus, Mutinus zenkeri). 
10.2307/3668396| Description de Sorindeia gabonensis, espce nouvelle d'Anacardiaceae, uniquement connue du Gabon. L'espce est illustre et la carte montrant sa distribution est donne. 
10.2307/3668253|The present paper is a monographic treatment of the genera Cylindropsis and Vahadenia which are both endemic in tropical Africa.
10.2307/3668198|Five species, three subspecies and one variety are described in the genus Ipomoea.
10.2307/3667764| After revision, the African genus Necepsia Prain (Euphorbiaceae) comprises 3 species: N. afzelii Prain with 2 subspecies and 2 varieties (subsp. afzelii var. afzelii from Sierra Leone to Ghana, subsp. afzelii var. sitae var. nov. in the Congo and subsp. zenkeri subsp. nov. from Cameroon and Gabon), N. zairensis sp. nov. with 2 varieties (var. zairensis from Gabon to Zare and var. lujae var. nov. in the Zare) and N. castaneifolia (Baill.) comb. nov. (formerly included in Palissya and Neopalissya) with 4 subspecies [subsp. castaneifolia from north-western Madagascar, subsp. chirindica (A. Radcliffe-Smith) comb. nov. from eastern Zimbabwe, subsp. kimbozensis (A. Radcliffe-Smith) comb. nov. from eastern Tanzania and subsp. capuronii subsp. nov. from north-eastern Madagascar]. 
10.2307/3668020|Description of two new species of Callitriche L. from intertropical Africa. So far, both species have been identified as C. stagnalis Scop. Some important differences between these new taxa and C. stagnalis are given.
10.2307/3667920|Four vegetation belts are noticed at the locality of Pointe Saint-Georges, Lower Casamance (Senegal), on an area with seeping water (table 1). Table 2 gives some properties of the corresponding soils. Their Na and Mg content is apparently an important factor of individualization of the plant communities.
10.2307/3667672|In planted woods of Cupressus and Acacia in Burundi, the litter layer is more or less covered with bryophytes, flowering plants being almost excluded. From 17 of these woods, 28 different species were gathered and about 15 of them may be considered as typical for that habitat. The method of factor analysis, used to compare the vegetation of the different places, is described. This factor analysis shows some groupings, probably in connection with the age of the woods (tabl. 2).
10.2307/3668338| A new subspecies of filmy fern is described from the Uluguru Mts., Tanzania: Hymenophyllum triangulare Bak. subsp. uluguruense Korna. This is an East African vicariad of the West African H. triangulare subsp. triangulare. Thirteen diagnostic characters of both subspecies are analysed biometrically. The phytogeographical interest of discontinuous distribution of the species is discussed. 
10.2307/3668455|Mention is made of the existence of 4 Lemnaceae collected by the author in Chad. One of them, Wolffia arrhiza (L.) Horkel ex Wimm., from north of Lake Chad, is new for the Chad. The distribution of another, Spirodela polyrrhiza (L.) Schleid., is extended several hundred km to the north, in central Sahara, not far from the Libyan border.
10.2307/3668058|Bryum provinciale Philib. is not synonymous with B. canariense Brid.
10.2307/3668093|Revision of the genus Polystachya Hook. sect. Cultriformes Kraenzl., characterized by only one leave at the apex of the stem or pseudobulb. Twenty species are recognized in Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi. Five species are new: P. brugeana, P. dewanckeliana, P. lawalreana, P. leonardiana, P. troupiniana.
10.2307/3668019|In addition to the sex, the leaf cellular tissue of B. pseudotriquetrum (Hedw.) Gaert., Meyer & Scherb. and of its variety bimum (Schreb.) Lilj. can be used in most cases to distinguish the two taxa.
10.2307/3668445|The "Flore d'Afrique Centrale" mentioned 4 species of Linociera Sw., a genus which in the meantime has been transferred to Chionanthus L.; a fifth species has since then been collected in Zaire. The description of this fifth species is given and a key to the five species present in Central Africa is proposed.
10.2307/3668434| Cet article dcrit la composition et l'organisation de la vgtation des mangroves des milieux "margino-littoraux" de Cte d'Ivoire et fournit des donnes biomtriques sur l'espce dominante Rhizophora racemosa (Rhizophoraceae). Les cosystmes "margino-littoraux" sont varis, tant par leur environnement climatique et hydrologique que par leurs dimensions ou leur fonctionnement. Les mangroves y sont bien reprsentes en bordure des lagunes, des estuaires, des cours d'eau (Como, Bandama, Sassandra et les rivires Bolo, La M et N'Gni) et 30 espces vgtales ont t reconnues. Les espces Rhizophora racemosa et Avicennia germinans (Avicenniaceae) dominent qualitativement et quantitativement le peuplement. Par ailleurs, les rsultats ont permis d'individualiser cinq formations vgtales et de mettre en vidence l'existence d'une zonation des plantes de la mangrove. Cette dernire est essentiellement lie aux paramtres hydrologiques (en particulier la salinit et le mouvement des eaux) et gomorphologiques (sdiment). /// This article describes the composition and organisation of vegetation of mangroves in "margino-littoral" milieu of Cte d'Ivoire and provides biometrical data on the dominant species Rhizophora racemosa (Rhizophoraceae). The "Margino-littoral" ecosystem in Cte d'Ivoire show a great diversity in their dimension, functioning, climatic and hydrologic caracteristics. Mangroves are well developed on the bank of the lagoons, the estuaries and the rivers (Como, Bandama, Sassandra, Bolo, La M and N'Gni) and 30 species of plants have been recognized. Species of Rhizophora racemosa and Avicennia germinans (Avicenniaceae) are qualitatively and quantitatively dominant. Besides that, results allow us to identify five types of plant formation and to note the existence of zonation among plants. That zonation is essentially linked to hydrological (salinity and water movement) and geomorphological factors (sdiment). 
10.2307/3667913|A sample of fossil wood found in the Omo region (SW Ethiopia), in a sediment of lower Pleistocene age or maybe older, has been related to Steganotaenia araliacea Hochst., a woody Umbellifer showing a wide distribution in Central and South Africa. The anatomic study reveals not only a large variability in the structure of the actual species, but also an evolution in the course of which the included phloem disappeared. Whereas in the fossil wood included phloem is abundant, it is not found in the actual plant. In addition, other very specific characteristics have been noted, which permit the verification of the validity of this identification. The anatomy of the fossil piece of wood has been described in the same way as the actual kind of wood and the diagnosis of Steganotaenioxylon araliaceum (gen. et sp. nov.) is given.
10.2307/3668332|Calliergon keniae Dixon, a species endemic to East Africa, is described and illustrated. It is considered to be conspecific with Sarmentypnum sarmentosum (Wahlenb.) Tuom. & T. Kop. Calliergon sarmentosum (Wahlenb.) Kindb. var. subflavum Ferg. ex Dixon is also reduced to a synonym of S. sarmentosum, being only a phenotypic expression not meriting taxonomic recognition. S. sarmentosum is reported for the first time from Tanzania and all African records are detailed.
10.2307/3667787| Un nouveau genre Hubbardochloa et une nouvelle espce H. gracilis (Poaceae) sont dcrits et illustrs. Leur position taxonomique est discute et une nouvelle sous-tribu, les Hubbardochloinae, est propose. 
10.2307/3667987| Onze espces de Vulpia (Poaceae), 3 indignes et 8 adventices, ont t reconnues dans le matriel belge. Une cl dichotomique en est donne. La variabilit de V. myuros (L.) C.C. Gmel. est particulirement discute;  cette occasion est faite la combinaison nouvelle V. myuros var. megalura (Nutt.) Auquier. /// Eleven species of Vulpia (Poaceae), 3 indigenous and 8 adventitious, are recorded from Belgium. Key to the taxa is given. Variability in V. myuros (L.) C.C.Gmel. is especially discussed and the new combination V. myuros var. megalura (Nutt.) Auquier is established. 
10.2307/3668353|A new species of Galium, endemic to northern Ethiopia, is described. Its presumed alliances are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3667612| Rvision taxonomique du genre Homalium Jacq. en Afrique, base sur les collections d'herbiers les plus importantes pour ce genre. Le plus grand nombre de sections (6, dont 4 endmiques, avec un total de 36 espces) se rencontre  Madagascar, tandis que l'Afrique continentale ne compte que 3 sections, dont l'une est aussi prsente en Amrique, une autre galement reprsente  Madagascar, et la troisime apparemment limite  l'Afrique tropicale (15 espces). Le total des espces traites dans ce travail est de 59. /// Taxonomic revision of the genus Homalium Jacq. for Africa, based on the collections found in the herbaria most important for the genus, which finds its area of highest diversification with 6 sections (of which 4 endemic ones, with a total of 36 species) in Madagascar, whilst continental Africa has but 3 sections, one of which also in tropical America, one also in Madagascar, and one apparently limited to tropical Africa (15 species). The total of species treated in this work is 59. 
10.2307/3667964| The geographical distribution is given of Hymenocardia ripicola J. Lonard, an African Hymenocardiaceae confined to the riparian periodically flooded forests of the Guineo-Congolian Region of Africa and frequently confused with H. acida Tul., H. heudelotii Planch. ex Mll. Arg. and H. ulmoides Oliv. 
10.2307/3667785|Only one species of Tetracme was recorded from Iran (T. recurvata Bunge). Two more species are now mentioned for Iran: T. quadricornis (Steph.) Bunge et T. contorta Boiss.
10.2307/3668049| The presence of Hydnora johannis Beccari is reported from Zare for the first time. The plant occurs in Upper Shaba, parasiting Acacia species and Caesalpiniaceae. The description of the plant, supported by a plate, is given. 
10.2307/3667671| Dans le courant du mois d'aot 1971, il a t procd  diffrentes mesures dans la boulaie pubescente de Haute-Ardenne (Plateau des Tailles) en vue de dterminer la biomasse, le contenu en eau et la productivit des divers constituants de cette formation. La biomasse sche totale (79 t/ha), le contenu en eau (116 t/ha) et la productivit (7 t/ha) sont faibles par rapport aux autres cosystmes forestiers de la rgion. Les parties souterraines reprsentent 54,5% de la biomasse sche et 62% du contenu en eau. /// Biomass, water content and productivity of most components of a Betula pubescens wood, at the " Plateau des Tailles " (Haute-Ardenne) have been studied during august 1971. The whole biomass (79 t/ha), water content (116 t/ha) and annual productivity (7 t/ha) are low compared with other forest ecosystems of the country. The subterranean parts stand for 54,5% of the biomass and 62% of the water content. 
10.2307/3667414|Revision of the African species of the genera Frullania (42 spp.) and Jubula (2 spp.). Three subgenera are retained: Frullania, Homotropantha and Trachycolea emend. Many taxa are put in synonymy. Diagnosis of 6 new species: Frullania humbertii, F. tixierana, F. epiphylla, F. letestui, F. onraedtii and F. gabonensis. Identification keys. Index.
10.2307/3668057|The two African species known as Chlorophora excelsa and C. regia are placed in the genus Milicia Sim as M. excelsa (Welw.) C. C. Berg and M. regia (A. Chev.) C. C. Berg.
10.2307/3667788|Two new species of Sabicea Aubl. (Rubiaceae) are described: S. multibracteata from Liberia, Ivory Coast and Ghana, and S. solitaria from Ivory Coast and Ghana. A key is provided to the humiflorous species of Sabicea occuring in West Africa. Sabicea efulenensis (Hutch.) Hepper is reduced to synonymy in S. gabonica (Hiern) Hepper; S. tchapensis Krause is, however, recognised as a distinct species. The other new species described are: Pavetta akeassii (Rubiaceae) from Ivory Coast and Ghana, Psychotria ankasensis (Rubiaceae) from Ghana, and Lecaniodiscus punctatus (Sapindaceae) from Ghana and Cameroun.
10.2307/3667594|Description of a new species of Bombacaceae from Brazil: Eriotheca obcordata A. Robyns & S. Nilsson sp. nov., with notes on the pollen morphology.
10.2307/3667840|Reasons are given for recognizing 18 sections of Diospyros in Africa (excluding Madagascar). 13 are new. All are described. A key is provided.
10.2307/3667428|25 species originally described in the Polyporaceae by M. Beeli have been examined. 4 species are accepted in the Polyporaceae, 17 species are reduced to synonymy, 3 species have previously been transferred to the Boletaceae by Heinemann. One name is a nomen nudum. The following new combinations are proposed: Microporellus collybiiformis (Beeli) Ryv. (Polyporus collybiiformis Beeli), Amauroderma kwiluensis (Beeli) Ryv. (Polystictus kwiluensis Beeli).
10.2307/3668357|The author gives the description and the illustration of four new taxa of the genus Cololejeunea: C. salgadoi, C. sinuosa, C. tenella var. dentiloba, C. tixieri.
10.2307/3668192|Three new species of continental African Bulbophyllum are described. Two of these species (B. kivuense and B. horridulum) are probably endemic in the mountainous area around Lake Kivu in E Zaire and Rwanda; the third (B. carnosisepalum) is widespread though rather rare throughout the central African rainforest belt. In addition 18 taxa generally regarded as species have been reduced to an infraspecific level.
10.2307/3668226|A prostrate Dictyotaceae was collected on the sandy-silty mangrove substratum close to high tide level in Gazi Bay (Kenya). It appears to be the rarely observed Dictyota adnata Zan., characterized by the prostrate growth form, marginal groups of rhizoids, marginal sori of tetraspores, high Cl/Cw and Ml/Mw ratios. According to these observations D. adnata Auct. ("sensu Webervan Bosse") is another taxon.
10.2307/3668091| Une nouvelle Cyanophyce planctonique, Katagnymene mucigera, est dcrite et illustre d'aprs du matriel rcolt en Afrique du Sud. On la compare  diverses formes d'Oscillatoria ornata et O. lacustris qui montrent des trichomes fort semblables mais o manque la gaine muqueuse caractristique du genre Katagnymene. On donne les caractristiques cologiques de ses localits au Transvaal, ainsi qu'une description et une illustration de son ultrastructure. 
10.2307/3668202|A survey of the genus Agaricus in South America, South of the 40th parallel, comprises 24 taxa of which 13 are fully described; A. nothofagorum, A. valdiviae var. saturatus and A. phaeocyclus var. pucatrihuensis are new taxa. The keys include some species not yet encountered in the mentioned areas.
10.2307/3667742| Description d'une espce nouvelle de Bombacaceae: Eriotheca gentryi A. Robyns & S. Nilsson, provenant de la rgion du Choco en Colombie. Elle est caractrise par le tube staminal pourvu au sommet d'une gouttire profonde dans laquelle les filets des tamines sont insrs et par la structure particulire de la sexine des grains de pollen. 
10.2307/3667939|The identity and typification of Aframomum hanburyi are discussed, and it is concluded that the name is not usable. A new species is therefore described from Cameroun, and another species, occurring in Ghana and countries to the west, is also described as new.
10.2307/3667676| The Belgian material of the genus Arcyria is revised. Thirteen species are recognized and special attention is paid to their variability; all of them as well as deviating collections are described and figured. The diameter of the spore-like cells in the base of the stalk is considered to be a useful character for taxonomy. The name " sporangium " for the first type of myxomycete sporophores is replaced by " sporocyst ". /// Een revisie is gemaakt van het Belgisch materiaal van het genus Arcyria. Dertien soorten worden onderscheiden waarbij speciaal wordt gelet op hun variabiliteit; beschrijvingen en afbeeldingen ervan, evenals van afwijkende verzamelingen worden gegeven. De diameter van de sporeachtige cellen in de basis van het steeltje blijkt een taxonomisch bruikbaar kenmerk te zijn. De term " sporangium " voor het eerste type van sporoforen bij myxomyceten wordt vervangen door " sporocyst ". /// Le matriel belge du genre Arcyria est revu. Treize espces sont distingues; leur variabilit est observe spcialement; elles sont dcrites et figures, de mme que des collections aberrantes. Le diamtre des cellules ayant l'allure de spores dans la base du stipe est un caractre utile pour la taxonomie. Le terme " sporange " pour le premier type de sporophores de myxomyctes est remplac par " sporocyste ". 
10.2307/3668217|A new species of Macaranga is described, growing in seasonally flooded forests in Central Africa.
10.2307/3668176| Mareya is an African Guineo-Congolian genus comprising 3 species, all distributed in Zaire: M. brevipes Pax, M. congolensis (J. Lonard) J. Lonard comb. nov. and M. micrantha (Benth.) Mll. Arg. Mareyopsis is also an African Guineo-Congolian genus, but, up to now, with only one species: M. longifolia (Pax) Pax & K. Hoffm. A comparative study of these 4 species has confirmed that these two genera are separated by a lot of important characters of generic value. It seems therefore much better to keep these two genera distinct and not to follow Webster's recent proposal (1994) to unite them. 
10.2307/3667600|A new species of Euphorbia from NE Zambia is described and a new name provided to replace the illegitimate E. verticillata Pax from Angola.
10.2307/3667582| La rvision de l'herbier de B. C. Dumortier (BR) permet de typifier plusieurs taxons relevant du genre Festuca (Poaceae) au sens actuel, dcrits par cet auteur en 1823; les synonymies avances auparavant par les auteurs reposaient en effet presque uniquement sur des spculations bases sur les diagnoses succinctes de Dumortier. Mis  part Festuca prasina Dum., dont l'indigence du matriel original ne permet pas une identification certaine, les synonymies suivantes peuvent tre tablies: F. arduenna Dum. = F. pallens Host; F. unifaria Dum. = F. rubra L. subsp. juncea (Hack.) Richt.; F. denudata Dum. = F. nigrescens Lam.; F. rubra L. subsp. oraria Dum. et F. ammophila Dum. = F. juncifolia Saint-Amans; F. diffusa Dum. = F. rubra L. subsp. multiflora (Hoffm.) Jirsek; Schedonorus arundinaceus Dum. = F. arundinacea Schreb.; S. radicans Dum. = F. pratensis Huds. Quelques remarques prcisent en outre l'tat des connaissances du genre Festuca en Belgique et au Luxembourg au dbut du XIXe sicle. 
10.2307/3668228|Chromosome counts (x = 15) for Diospyros zombensis (new), D. galpinii (new) and D. natalensis confirm the general picture based on earlier work. Some karyomorphological differences between these species are described. The possible ecological significance of polyploidy within the D. lycioides complex is discussed.
10.2307/3668254| The annotated index gives all names of taxa treated in the "Flore Gnrale de Belgique, Bryophytes", volume III, fascicles 1 & 2, and of some names used in recent European checklists or needed to clarify a point of nomenclature. The notes include some corrections of Index Muscorum. 
10.2307/3668092| Blindia acuta (= Dicranoloma cataractarum syn. nov.) is new for Zare and Runion. Comments on Pilopogon africanus (= P. africanus var. kivuensis syn. nov.), a species known from Zare and Rwanda, and new for Burundi. Key for Bryoerythrophyllum recurvirostre and B. afro-rubellum comb. nov. Key and comments on Orthodontium gracile and O. loreifolium. Orthostichidium involutifolium subsp. involutifolium is new for East Zare, and subsp. thomeanum for Runion. Distribution of Oligotrichum cavallii (= O. africanum syn. nov.). Seven species are illustrated. 
10.2307/3668296|Information is given for the 27 species of Diospyros (belonging to 11 sections) that are endemic to the Sudano-Zambezian super-region. Their distribution and ecology is considered at some length in relation to the regional phytochoria of the Unesco/AETFAT/UNSO "Vegetation map of Africa". For most species economic uses are briefly described, and more fully for three species, namely: D. mweroensis F. White, which yields a fish poison; D. chamaethamnus Dinter ex Mildbr., a food plant of the bushmen, and D. mespiliformis Hochst. ex A. DC., one of the most generally useful of all African trees. Eight species, D. capricornuta F. White, D. greenwayi F. White, D. kabuyeana F. White, D. kanurii F. White, D. magogoana F. White, D. occulta F. White, D. shimbaensis F. White and D. wajirensis F. White are new, as are two subspecies of D. abyssinica (Hiern) F. White (subsp. attenuata F. White and subsp. reticulata F. White). The taxonomy of seven critical species [D. natalensis (Harv.) Brenan, D. consolatae Chiov., D. rotundifolia Hiern, D. abyssinica (Hiern) F. White, D. cornii Chiov., D. kirkii Hiern and D. mespiliformis Hochst. ex A. DC.] is analysed in detail and in most cases pictorially displayed.
10.2307/3668470|Three species of Stylochaeton Leprieur are recognized in the Shaba Region (Zaire); two of them are new. A key of the three species is given, as well as their description (with illustration) and distribution (with map).
10.2307/3668215|The Begoniaceae have a dubious position in most systems of classification. The family is usually placed together with the Datiscaceae in or near the Violales. The ontogeny of the staminate flower of some species of Begonia reveals great similarity with the floral development of members of the Papaveraceae. Flower buds arise in the axil of a bract between two bracteoles. The two sepals emerge successively and cover the apex as a saccate envelop. Next one pair of petals is initiated in Begoniaceae and two pairs in Papaveraceae. The androecium is always initiated as four stamens opposite the sepals or outer petals. The next stamen whorls arise as groups of two, four or six stamens, or in an irregular manner. In Papaver, a broad ringwall becomes covered by stamens starting with four stamen primordia alternating with the petals. The pentamerous perianth of pistillate flowers of Begonia shows a clear derivation from two trimerous whorls of tepals, as exemplified by transitional stages and floral ontogeny. The different types of androecia and their derived states are discussed, and a comparison of floral diagrams is made. Other characters such as the floral vasculature, biochemistry, merosity, the interchangeability of petals and stamens and the perianth morphology are discussed as well and are in line with a magnolioid affinity. The reputably primitive genus Hillebrandia (Begoniaceae) is considered to be an isolated offshoot, not much related to the rest of the family. In our opinion, the Begoniaceae are not well placed in Violales but should be transferred to the Magnoliidae near the Papaverales. It is therefore suggested that Papaveraceae and Begoniaceae arose from a common stock, similar to certain trimerous Annonaceae, and were separated by extreme floral divergence.
10.2307/3668144|The Arisaema sikokianum group contains four related species of Japanese and Chinese origin. In the old literature already, a great confusion was present between them. As their correct determination is still a topical question, we made a comparative study based on existing literature and personal field notes in order to expound further on the source of the confusion. As a result a clear distinction is proposed on systematic and geographic basis.
10.2307/3667409|Revision of the genus Gladiolus L. (Iridaceae) in Zaire, in Rwanda and in Burundi. -- Description and diagnosis of the ten species which are growing in these countries.
10.2307/3667933| A taxonomic, ecological and chorological revision of the Guineo-Congolian species of Diospyros, including a key to the 52 species. Four new species and three subspecies are described. The citation of specimens is limited to one locality for each degree square. Distribution maps of all taxa will be published in Distributiones Plantarum Africanarum 14 (1978). Variation and relationships are discussed using the concepts of the monotypic and polytypic species, the ochlospecies, semi-species and superspecies. Three main centres of endemism, namely Upper Guinea, Lower Guinea and the Zare basin (Congolia), and two major intervals, the Dahomey interval and the Sangha River interval, are described. Attention is drawn to the diversity in growth form and reproductive biology found among sympatric species. 
10.2307/3667417|Description of a new species of Quararibea from Ecuador: Q. palenquiana A. Robyns.
10.2307/3667857|The morphology of the flowers and of the fruits, the first palynological studies and the phytogeographical distributions seem to indicate that, for the present time, it is better to follow I. Linczevski's conception, who subdivided the genus Gaillonia A. Rich. ex DC. in five genera, than to keep only one heterogeneous genus.
10.2307/3668395| Le Jebel Uweinat est un massif montagneux de 1900 m d'altitude environ, situ au coeur de l'immense Dsert de Libye,  la frontire entre la Libye, l'Egypte et le Sudan, en une rgion o les pluies sont exceptionnelles (fig. 1-2). La flore, trs pauvre, et la vgtation, trs maigre, de ce massif taient fort incompltement connues par suite de la difficult d'un sjour prolong  cause du manque de ravitaillement sur place. L'auteur rsume les rsultats de l'expdition scientifique interdisciplinaire belge qu'il a dirige en compagnie d'une quipe libyenne dont le botaniste tait L. Boulos. Cette expdition eut l'occasion de sjourner 3 mois au Jebel Uweinat, grce  l'aide technique de l'arme belge. Le gologue, J. Klerkx, a dress la carte gologique du massif qui est compos principalement d'une partie granitique et d'une partie grseuse (fig. 19 & 22). Le zoologiste, X. Misonne, a tudi les 8 espces de mammifres sauvages encore prsents et a montr qu'ils constituaient un ensemble dsertique isol prouvant que, depuis la priode nolithique, la rgion s'tait progressivement assche et que le Jebel Uweinat devait tre actuellement  un niveau d'aridit jamais atteint auparavant depuis cette priode. Grce  la collaboration du zoologiste, le botaniste a pu prciser l'influence des herbivores sauvages sur la vgtation et a pu tablir la chane alimentaire actuelle (fig. 20). Les gologues du Quaternaire (J. de Heinzelin et P. Haesaerts) et le prhistorien (F. Van Noten) ont trouv de nombreux sites archologiques  l'embouchure des larges valles et ont mis en vidence les diffrentes industries humaines qui se sont succdes au cours des derniers millnaires depuis l'Acheulen suprieur jusqu'au Nolithique rcent. L'tude de plus de 4000 gravures et peintures rupestres, effectue par F. Van Noten et X. Misonne, a montr qu'aprs des populations de chasseurs (de girafes, d'autruches et d'oryx aujourd'hui disparus, ainsi que de mouflons et de gazelles encore prsents), des populations de pasteurs s'taient tablies, d'abord avec des troupeaux de vaches, ensuite avec des troupeaux de chvres. 
10.2307/3668474|(14) Craterispermum inquisitorium, readily recognized by its longpedunculate two-forked inflorescences, is provisionally divided in two varieties, var. inquisitorium and var. longipedunculatum. C. brieyi is placed in synonymy with var. inquisitorium. The existing combination C. brieyi var. inquisitorium is shown to be illegitimate. (15) It is argued that the holotype of Nauclea diderrichii (basionym Sarcocephalus diderrichii) is not lost; the two neotypifications of the species are superfluous.
10.2307/3667718| Description, distribution and ecology of Hylocomiopsis cylindricarpa Thr., endemic in tropical Africa. Comparison with H. ovicarpa (Besch.) Card. from Japan and Korea. 
10.2307/3668247| Description d'une espce nouvelle de Rhynchosia du Gabon. 
10.2307/3667661|After discussing briefly the morphological homogeneity of the classical Sympetalae, where only true sympetaly occurs, the author gives a summary of the systems of orders of Sympetalae by Wettstein (1935), Melchior (1964) and Cronquist (1957, 1965, 1968). He proposes then a new system of orders and families based on the main evolutionary and progressive tendencies prevailing in the living Sympetalae. This system starts with the most simple haplostemonous and tetracyclic orders: the Ligustrales and Plantaginales, to end with the diplostemonous Ericales and finally with the pleiomerous Ebenales.
10.2307/3668113|8 species and 1 subspecies of Leptodontium occur in tropical Africa: L. flexifolium (With.) Hampe, L. viticulosoides (P. Beauv.) Wijk & Marg., L. pungens (Mitt.) Kindb., L. wallisii (C. Muell.) Kindb., L. luteum (Tayl.) Mitt., L. longicaule Mitt. var. longicaule, L. longicaule subsp. stellatum (Brid.) comb. nov., L. latifolium Broth. and L. capituligerum C. Muell. Key, synonyms, short descriptions, distributions, comments and illustrations of 8 taxons are given.
10.2307/3668151|Vigna pilosa (Willd.) Baker presents 2n = 22 chromosomes. The study of the fine structure of its pollen grains shows an infratectum of the columellar type and a colporated aperture.
10.2307/3668073|Description of a new species of Phyllobotryum from Zaire: P. maikoense P. Bamps & Lejoly.
10.2307/3668350| Variability of Aethusa cynapium L. (Apiaceae) in Belgium. Three subspecies are usually distinguished within A. cynapium: subsp. cynapium, subsp. agrestis (Wallr.) Dostl and subsp. cynapioides (Bieb.) Nyman. The study of the literature allowed me to define the dinstinctive characters between these taxa and to show that intermediate taxa have been described. The morphometric analysis of the Belgian material results in the recognition of three taxa at the rank of variety: var. cynapium, var. agrestis Wallr. and var. gigantea Leuj.; a fourth one, var. cynapioides (Bieb.) Ficinus & Heynh., who seems to agree with the tall specimens of Central Europe and Western Asia, may perhaps be distinguished. 
10.2307/3667419| The Euphorbia brevis-imitata-decidua complex is reviewed in some detail and some possible affinities discussed, with particular reference to sect. Ballyeuphorbia Croizat. The group is considered to be a relic from formerly heavier rainfall periods and now to be in a decline with the exception of the geophytic E. decidua. Distribution is almost trans-African between 8 and 17 S and a map is provided showing this. The species fall into two groups on leaf characters and are keyed out from this base. The taxa are discussed individually in detail, lectotypes are selected for E. brevis and E. imitata and descriptions of five new species provided. 
10.2307/3668443| Description d'une nouvelle section et d'une nouvelle espce d'Agelaea. 
10.2307/3667862| Two species of the familiy Lejeuneaceae (Hepaticae), collected at La Runion (Indian Ocean), are described for the first time: Marchesinia obtusifolia and Cheilolejeunea ecarinata. 
10.2307/3667620| L'tude du pollen d'une centaine d'espces de Bauhinieae a permis de confirmer certaines classifications de la tribu dont celle de de Wit pour les espces de Malaisie. Avec la rpartition du nombre d'tamines fertiles, la palynologie conduit  un morcellement de certains groupes. Le genre Bauhinia L., dans son sens le plus strict, est limit aux espces  une seule tamine fertile (Casparea). Les espces comptant gnralement 3 tamines se rpartissent entre les genres Phanera et Lasiobema. Les Perlebia,  3-5 tamines, sont spars des Pauletia. Ceux-ci possdent, en effet, 10 tamines fertiles de mme que les genres Adenolobus, Gigasiphon, Piliostigma, Lysiphyllum, Tylosema, Schnella et Binaria. Le genre Tournaya est cr pour Bauhinia gossweileri; un autre genre nouveau devra peut-tre accueillir B. cinnamomea. L'volution du pollen est compare  la phylognie foliaire. 
10.2307/3668290|The study of the seedlings and of the morpho-anatomy of the seeds, correlated with the study of the morphology of the leaves, the flowers and the fruits, shows that the genus Schotia only exists in Southern Africa (4 species), that the genus Leonardoxa is clearly distinct from Schotia, but comprises at present only the type-species Leonardoxa africana (previously Schotia africana), a Guineo-Congolian myrmecophyte, and that Schotia romii and S. bequaertii, subsequently included in the genus Leonardoxa, constitute a new genus, Normandiodendron, distributed in the eastern part of the Guineo-Congolian regional centre of endemism, chiefly in Zaire.
10.2307/3667909| Etude systmatique d'une partie de la collection de bryophytes effectue par F. Demaret au Ruwenzori en 1953 et 1957. Les spcimens tudis se rpartissent en 34 familles, 76 genres, 139 espces et varits. Ils proviennent des tages de vgtation suivants: fort ombrophile quatoriale, fort ombrophile de montagne, tage des bambous, tage des bruyres arborescentes, tage alpin. Une combinaison nouvelle est propose: Pohlia chrysoblasta (Thr. & Nav.) Demaret. 
10.2307/3667793| The monospecific genus Probletostemon was long considered a synonym of Tricalysia. Its type, T. elliotii, shares the following features with T. anomala and with T. trachycarpa (the latter is described here from the Zaire Basin): large pleiomerous flowers with free bracteoles, style and anthers (at least to some extent) hairy, standard colleters, and large fruits with a thick sclerotic wall. Probletostemon is therefore considered a section of subgenus Tricalysia comprising the species mentioned. A second new species (T. ferorum, Cameroun) of isolated position does not fully match with the enumerated characters but is also accommodated here. T. elliotii and T. anomala are widespread Guineo-Congolian species divided here into infraspecific taxa. T. trachycarpa and T. ferorum each are endemic to one Domain of the Guineo-Congolian Rgion. /// Le genre monospcifique Probletostemon est depuis longtemps considr comme synonyme de Tricalysia. Son type, T. elliotii, a en commun avec T. anomala et T. trachycarpa (espce nouvelle dcrite ici de la cuvette du Zare) les caractres suivants: grandes fleurs pliomres  bractoles libres, anthres et styles induments (au moins partiellement), colltres de type classique et fruits assez grands  paroi paisse et sclreuse. En consquence, Probletostemon est considr comme section du sous-genre Tricalysia. Une autre espce nouvelle (T. ferorum, Cameroun), isole sur le plan systmatique, est galement rattache  cette section bien que ses caractres ne correspondent pas entirement  ceux numrs ci-dessus. T. elliotii et T. anomala sont des espces guino-congolaises  large distribution subdivises ici en varits. T. trachycarpa et T. ferorum sont chacune endmiques  un domaine de la rgion guino-congolaise. 
10.2307/3667741|Based on detailed and extensive field observations, the variations in Treculia africana Decaisne subsp. africana (African breadfruit), an important food crop tree in southern Nigeria, are discussed. Three varieties are distinguished within the subspecies, namely var. africana, var. mollis, and a new variety, herein designated as var. inversa. A key to the three varieties is provided together with their detailed descriptions.
10.2307/3668166|The present monographic revision of the genus Dictyophleba (Apocynaceae), is mainly based on the examination of herbarium material. The genus belongs to the subtribe Landolphiinae of the tribe Carisseae. Dictyophleba is maintained in the same concept as with Pichon (1953). The genus is confined to Africa, and contains 5 species, one of which is described here as new to science. Pichon's sections of the genus are not maintained.
10.2307/3667893|6 species of Agaricus and 1 of Micropsalliota are fully described from Papua New Guinea: Agaricus cf. purpurellus, A. silvicola, A. volvatulus, A. novoguineensis sp. nov., A. leptomeleagris sp. nov., Agaricus sp. and Micropsalliota pseudoarginea sp. nov. The new species are illustrated.
10.2307/3668274| Keayodendron bridelioides Landri (Euphorbiaceae), originaire du Cameroun, a t rcolt pour la premire fois au Gabon. La typification de l'espce est rvise. La carte de distribution montre que son aire est trs dcoupe et que l'espce trouve sa limite mridionale dans le NE du Gabon. 
10.2307/3667757| The distribution of floral nectaries in the Magnoliatae is studied by means of Dahlgren's (1975, 1980) classification diagrams. For this purpose two types of floral nectaries, nectaria caduca and nectaria persistentia, were distinguished on the basis of their nature and their localization. Nectaria caduca mainly occur in the Magnoliidae, the Caryophyllidae and the Dilleniidae; nectaria persistentia are typical of the Rosidae and the Asteridae. The Hamamelidae are characterized by the absence of nectaries. On the basis of the resulting diagrams and after additional character research a more detailed typification could be set up. Nectaria trichomalia, which occur mainly in the Asteridae, were separated as an additional type; on the other hand, as well the nectaria caduca as the nectaria persistentia showed to comprise several character states. The characters and their character states are represented in a scheme, which, however, does not suggest phyletic lines for the character states of nectaria caduca and nectaria persistentia. Nectaria septalia, which are often found in the Liliatae, constitute a fourth type of nectaries; they are not clearly related to the nectary types of the Magnoliatae. The study of floral nectaries undoubtedly contributes to a better understanding of the relationships among the higher taxa of the Magnoliophytina (Angiosperms). /// L'occurrence des nectaires floraux est tudie dans les Magnoliatae  l'aide des systmes de classification bi-dimensionels de Dahlgren (1975, 1980). D'aprs la stucture et la localisation nous distinguons deux types de nectaires, que nous appelons " nectaria caduca " et " nectaria persistentia ". Les " nectaria caduca " caracterisent les Magnoliidae, Caryophyllidae et Dilleniidae, tandis que les " nectaria persistentia " sont typiques pour les Rosidae et Asteridae. Les Hamamelidae ne possdent pas de nectaires. Une tude approfondie du nectaire, ainsi que la rpartition au sein des Magnoliatae des deux types prcits, permettent d'isoler un caractre supplmentaire, prsent principalement dans les Asteridae, que nous appelons " nectaria trichomalia ", ainsi que plusieurs modes d'expression des " nectaria caduca " et " nectaria persistentia ". Ces diffrents modes d'expression sont prsents synthtiquement en un schma sans prtention phylogntique. Les nectaires septaux (" nectaria septalia "), trs frquents chez les Liliatae, forment un quatrime type sans relations videntes avec les types de nectaires des Magnoliatae. L'tude des nectaires floraux contribue de faon certaine  une meilleure comprhension des relations phylogntiques au niveau des taxons suprieurs des Magnoliophytina (Angiospermes). 
10.2307/3668458| Yangambi (0046' N, 2427' E) is situated in the zone of the dense equatorial forest on the right bank of the Zaire River, about 90 km downwards from Kisangani. Eighty-eight taxa of diatoms were identified in algal samples from small watercourses of the neighbourhood of Yangambi. The clustering of these samples shows some similarity between the diatom assemblages from the Ranalisma humile-Eichhornia natans association in the Bohonde River and from the Potamogeton octandrus community in the Lubilu; 51% of the taxa found in these samples are typical of waters with a low mineral content, acidic or even dystrophic. A similarity was also found between the assemblages of the samples collected at the surface of the mud in the Liturumbu River, near its confluence with the Zaire River; these samples showed a relatively species-rich diatom flora, comprising, next to some acidophilic taxa, a larger number of species whose optimal development occurs mostly in waters with a higher mineral content, neutral or even slightly basic. Most taxa have a cosmopolitan or subcosmopolitan distribution. However, 18 taxa may be considered as having a pantropical, paleotropical or African distribution. 
10.2307/3668248| Description d'une nouvelle espce, Trichoscypha gambana (Anacardiaceae), du Gabon. 
10.2307/3668318|Description of three new species of Vernonia Schreb. (Asteraceae) from Shaba (Zaire).
10.2307/3667988|Third contribution to the study of the Bryophytes, gathered by the author on different islands of the Indian Ocean. Three species of Bazzania are described as new and illustrated.
10.2307/3668299|Descriptions or short diagnoses are provided for some new taxa of Central African Russulae: Russula acuminata, R. roseoalba, R. kivuensis, R. inflata, R. intricata, R. brunneorigida and its var. brachystegiensis, R. meleagris, R. diffusa and its var. fissurans, R. concolora, R. acriuscula, R. viscidula, R. congoana Pat. var. djongoensis, R. bururiensis, R. sejuncta, R. oinochroa, R. testacea and R. tomentosa. R. velutina (Bres.) Buyck comb. nov. is proposed.
10.2307/3667663| Les affinits entre cytotypes diplode et ttraplode d' Asplenium ruta-muraria L. ont t tudies par l'observation cytologique de l'hybride triplode et d'un autottraplode produit par aposporie. Le triplode est caractris par une frquence leve de trivalents et la miose est trs irrgulire chez l'autottraplode artificiel. En conclusion, la subsp. ruta-muraria doit tre un autottraplode driv de croisements intraspcifiques, mais elle n'a pas t forme  partir de la forme diplode par un simple doublement du nombre chromosomique. L'homologie entre ses gnomes est plus grande que chez A. trichomanes et A. septentrionale. /// The relationships between diploid and tetraploid cytotypes of Asplenium ruta-muraria L. have been studied by cytological observation of the triploid hybrid between them and of an autotetraploid induced by apospory. The triploid was characterized by a high trivalent frequency and the induced autotetraploid showed a very irregular meiosis. It was concluded that subsp. ruta-muraria is an autotetraploid derived from intraspecific crossing but was not formed by a simple chromosome doubling from a diploid cytotype. The homology between its genomes is higher than for A. trichomanes and A. septentrionale. 
10.2307/3668400| The genus Antidesma L. (Euphorbiaceae) comprises 5 shrubby species very common and previously frequently confused in central Africa: A. laciniatum Mll. Arg. subsp. laciniatum and subsp. membranaceum (Mll. Arg.) J. Lonard comb. nov. and A. vogelianum Mll. Arg., both in rain forests and riverine forests; A. membranaceum Mll. Arg. and A. venosum E. Mey. ex Tul., both very common in secondary grasslands and miombo woodlands, but absent in rain forests; A. rufescens Tul. by streamsides. 
10.2307/3668111|Description of three new species of Russula from Zaire: R. fimbriata, R. pausiaca and R. ciliata.
10.2307/3667433| Carex praecox Schreb. a t dcouvert en lisire du bois de Bnamont, prs de Bathelmont (Meurthe-et-Moselle, France). L'espce pourrait tre nouvelle pour la Lorraine. Les caractres distinctifs par rapport  C. curvata Knaf sont prciss sur les plans morphologique, cologique et phytosociologique. Il existe aux Pays-Bas une plante  caractres intermdiaires entre C. ligerica Gay et C. brizoides L. /// Carex praecox Schreb. has been found at the outskirts of the Benamont forest, near Bathelmont (Meurthe-et-Moselle, France). The species seems to be new in Lorraine. The characteristics with respect to C. curvata Knaf are defined on the morphological, ecological and phytosociological levels. In the Netherlands, a plant with characters intermediate between C. ligerica Gay and C. brizoides L. is found. 
10.2307/3667934| Poeciloneuron indicum diffre de P. pauciflorum notamment par la nature des anthres (lobules), l'inflorescence (une panicule  plusieurs fleurs) et le nombre des spales (5). Le pollen de la premire espce est petit avec l'endoaperture perpendiculaire  l'ectoaperture tandis que celui de la seconde espce est plus grand avec l'endoaperture parallle  l'ectoaperture. L'tude microscopique lectronique  balayage montre une diffrence de plus: les crtres tectales sont lisses pour P. indicum alors qu'elles portent des projections verruqueuses pour P. pauciflorum. 
10.2307/3668106|Description of a new species of Buchnera L. from Shaba in Zaire.
10.2307/3667853|Description of Ancistrocladus robertsoniorum (Ancistrocladaceae), a new species from the Buda coastal forests of Kenya, which represents a geographical link between the Guineo-Congolian African species of the genus and the tropical Asiatic ones.
10.2307/3668276| Cinq espces nouvelles de Combretum du Gabon sont dcrites: C. oudenhovenii, C. echirense, C. adrianii, C. esteriense et C. ndjoleense. 
10.2307/3667777|Geographical distribution of 28 species and 1 variety of Polystachya Hook.
10.2307/3668012|A survey of the genera of the Pavetteae is given. Coptosperma, Santalina, Pachystylus, Stylocoryna, Bonatia, Canthiopsis and Tennantia are related to Tarenna. The following genera are considered allied to Ixora: Myonima, Hitoa, Doricera, Thouarsiora and Versteegia. Coleactina is accepted as affiliated to Leptactina. Duperrea remains of unknown affinity within the tribe. Some poorly known Madagascan genera suspected of belonging to the Pavetteae, viz. Paracephaelis, Schizenterospermum, Homollea and Homoliella, are briefly discussed. Finally the following genera may definitely be excluded from the tribe: Gardeniopsis, Brachytome, Strumpfia, Phyllomelia and Cosmocalyx. The characters of the Pavetteae are reviewed. With the exception of the pantropical genus Ixora, the tribe is paleotropical.
10.2307/3668107|New names and combinations are proposed in Chroomonas (Cryptophyceae), Trachelomonas and Pseudoperanema (Euglenophyceae).
10.2307/3668390|A new genus of Burseraceae, Pseudodacryodes Pierlot, from the montainous region of eastern Dem. Rep. of Congo (ex-Zaire), is described, with P. leonardiana Pierlot sp. nov. as the type species.
10.2307/3667887|The author describes 5 new species, makes 4 new combinations and proposes 1 new name in the genera Brachycorythis Lindley, Cynorkis Thouars, Disa Bergius, Habenaria Willd., Platycoryne Reichenb. f. and Vanilla Miller.
10.2307/3668354|Asystasia ammophila, a new species endemic to Ethiopia, is described. Detailed palynological information, ecological and distributional data are also given.
10.2307/3667963|Description of a Paspalum virgatum community in the city of Kisangani, including the ecological conditions, the floristic composition, the physiognomy, the growth forms, the phytogeographical structure and the systematic position.
10.2307/3668142| Description d'une espce nouvelle d'Agelaea Sol. ex Planch. (Connaraceae) du Gabon. 
10.2307/3667781|The study of type material of Bryum dichotomum Hedw., B. bulbillosum Mont. and B. bicolor Dicks. allows the authors to maintain these three taxa as distinct, although Ochi (1970: 17-21, fig. 5-7) considered them to belong to only one species, B. bicolor. The distinctive characters of the three species and of B. barnesii Wood are given in a table and are illustrated.
10.2307/3667979| Six species of Neckera occur in tropical Africa. A key is given for their determination. Three species (N. platyantha, N. remota and N. submacrocarpa), observed in the field, are described and illustrated. New synonyms: N. subplatyantha Broth. = N. platyantha (C. Mll.) Par.; N. gromieri Thr. and N. subremota C. Mll. ex Dus. = N. remota Bruch & Schimp. ex C. Mll.; N. macrocarpa Broth. = N. submacrocarpa Dix. Two species of Neckeropsis were collected: N. disticha and N. hookeriacea (C. Mll. ex Dus.) Fleisch. New synonyms: Neckera extans Besch. and N. occidentalis Besch. = Neckeropsis disticha (Hedw.) Kindb. 
10.2307/3668285|Plagiomnium undulatum (Hedw.) T. Kop. is for the first time reported from continental East Africa. It was collected in Ethiopia in the Bale Mts at 3 370 - 3 480 m in upper montane Philippia -- Hagenia forests. The nearest known localities are in Israel and Lebanon. The distribution of P. undulatum is mapped and a revised key to tropical African Plagiomnium T. Kop. given.
10.2307/3668074|Until recently Trichocladus ellipticus subsp. malosanus was known in Central Africa only from 4 localities in Kivu and High-Shaba. Our collection and the recent observations of other botanists extend this area to the North (High-Zaire) and to the East (Rwanda and Burundi).
10.2307/3667677|Six new taxa are described: Agaricus bambusae Beeli var. australis Heinem. and A. viridopurpurascens Heinem. of the typical subgenus, sect. Arvenses, A. horakii Heinem., A. lanatoniger Heinem., A. purpureoniger Heinem. and A. oligocystis Heinem., all four pertaining to subgenus Lanagaricus.
10.2307/3668437|A synopsis of the twenty species of the genus Odontadenia (Apocynaceae, Apocynoideae) is presented here. One new section and three new species are described. Keys, descriptions, distributional data and taxonomic index are provided.
10.2307/3668219| Description of a new species of Buxus from Shaba (Zare). 
10.2307/3667597| I. A description is given of Volvariella volvacea (Fr.) Sing. var. masseei Sing. ad interim, based on fruitbodies obtained in culture from south-east Asian material. A remarkable feature of the mycelium is the plentiful formation of rounded chlamydospores over 50 m broad. The cytology of this species follows the classical pattern in the hymenium and the subhymenium; the spores are uninucleate and there are no residual nuclei in the basidium; the larger cells of the mycelium, as well as those of the carpophores, normally countain from 2 to 6 dicaryons; 2n = 8. Several studies, indicated in the references, were based on the material here described. II. Description of Volvariella microspora Heinem. sp. nov., and formation of a new combination, V. palmicola (Beeli) Heinm. 
10.2307/3667763|All available Belgian Kurzia collections have been revised. A determination key to the three European Kurzia species, based on characters of the female and the male inflorescence, is presented. Many collections of K. pauciflora were in fact misidentified. They contained most often K. sylvatica but also K. trichoclados, new for the Belgian flora. Distribution and habitat of the Kurzia species in Belgium, a description of K. trichoclados, based on Belgian material, and a preliminary map of the European distribution of K. trichoclados are given.
10.2307/3667926| Les auteurs rattachent  Bryum bicolor Dicks., par suite de la prsence de propagules gemmiformes caractristiques de cette espce, 28 spcimens provenant de Belgique, des Pays-Bas et d'Italie qui sont galement caractriss par la prsence de propagules tubriformes sur les rhizodes, ainsi que par les feuilles suprieures et les cailles de propagules gemmiformes longuement acumines. Comme aucune constance dans la prsence de ces trois derniers caractres n'a t observe et qu'aucune corrlation n'existe entre eux, ni avec l'ge des plantes, ni avec le milieu o elles poussent, ni avec les saisons pendant lesquelles ont lieu les rcoltes, la cration d'un taxon diffrent ne se justifie pas. 
10.2307/3668334|Description of a new Xyris, X. dilungensis Brylska, from Shaba (Zaire).
10.2307/3667990| A key is given for 8 species of Andreaea; the sporophyte of A. tsaratananae, new record for La Runion, is described for the first time; A. alticaulis is a new synonym of A. mildbraedii; A. obovata is a new record for Africa. Three species are keyed for the genus Racomitrium; R. defoliatum is a new synonym of R. nigro-viride, new record for Rwanda; R. durum is synonym with R. alare; R. lepervanchei seem distinct from R. crispulum. Gymnostomiella tanganyikae is a new species collected once in Burundi. Thuidium chenagonii, T. ramusculosum and T. varians are new records for Rwanda. Most of the species (except for Thuidium) are illustrated. 
10.2307/3668297|Rehabilitation of Pterocarpus tessmannii Harms, previously excluded from the genus, by the examination of the pod (fig. 1 B). A complementary description and a key of the species in the range of the "Flore d'Afrique centrale" are given.
10.2307/3667836|Under axenic conditions, mycorrhizae have been synthetized between 33 species and varieties of Betula and Pisolithus arhizus. The species of Betula, pertaining to the different sections of the genus, have shown an equal ability to form mycorrhizae which look much alike from a morphological point of view. As a conclusion it may be presumed that all species of the genus Betula may form mycorrhizae with Pisolithus, at least under laboratory conditions, though this may not be possible in nature owing to ecology and geographic distribution.
10.2307/3667805|Four new taxa of diatoms are described: one from Sumatra (Surirella pseudotenuissima) and three from oligotrophic running waters of Belgium (Surirella roba, S. celtica var. constricta and Achnanthes rechtensis). Physico-chemical analyses enabled us to precise their ecology.
10.2307/3668075|Three species hitherto not yet mentioned from Zaire are reported: Ageratum houstonianum Mill., Rivina humilis L. and Eleutheranthera ruderalis (Sw.) Sch. Bip.
10.2307/3667590| Deux espces nouvelles de Boraginaces, Arnebia latebracteata H. Riedl sp. nov. et Lappula leonardii H. Riedl sp. nov., sont dcrites de la rgion orientale dsertique de l'Iran; leurs affinits taxonomiques sont discutes; leurs morphologies et leurs distributions gographiques sont compares avec celles des espces voisines. 
10.2307/3667664|A new hyphomycete, Sporoschismopsis moravica Hol.-Jech. & Hennebert, has been found on decayed wood in Czechoslovakia. The fungus is dematiaceous with pseudoendogenous septate brown conidia. The relationship between the closely related genera Sporoschisma Berk. & Br., Catenularia Grove and others is also discussed here.
10.2307/3668457| Description of a new species, C. akeassii J. Lonard, from Ivory Coast and Ghana, belonging to the tropical African genus Crotonogynopsis Pax (Euphorbiaceae). 
10.2307/3667819|The genus Afrardisia Mez is considered not to be generically distinct from Ardisia Sw. and the synonymy is established. A key and a list of all African species of Ardisia with localities is given; these are used for drawing the map of the general distribution of the genus and the distribution maps of the species, to be published in Distr. Pl. Afr. 15 (1979). 17 new species are described and several new combinations are made.
10.2307/3667760|Delilia biflora (L.) Kuntze, not yet known from continental Africa, has been collected in the Ivory Coast in 1967. This ruderal species, indigenous in Latin America, is introduced in the Cape Verde Islands. The genus Delilia Sprengel and the species D. biflora are described.
10.2307/3667816|A close examination of numerous West-African specimens belonging to sect. Combretastrum Eichl. shows that Combretum afzelii Engl. & Diels and C. cuspidatum Planch. ex Benth. are the only 2 West-African species, C. insulare Engl. & Diels being a new synonym of C. cuspidatum.
10.2307/3667482|The description of a new genus Hymenocoleus is given. Eight species are recognized. H. barbatus Robbrecht, H. multinervis Robbrecht and H. petitianus Robbrecht are new species. H. hirsutus (Benth.) Robbrecht, H. libericus (A. Chev. ex Hutch. & Dalz.) Robbrecht and H. rotundifolius (A. Chev. ex Hepper) Robbrecht were originally placed in Geophila D. Don, H. thollonii (De Wild.) Robbrecht in Uragoga Baill. and H. neurodictyon (K. Schum.) Robbrecht first in Psychotria L. and later in Geophila D. Don. Besides two provisional taxa, awaiting for better material, are mentioned. The genus is, among other things, characterized by the presence of a membranous sheath inside the stipules and by the watery inflated drupes with 2 ecostate pyrenes dehiscent by 2 basal fissures. A discussion of the floral biology and the palynology of the genus is given.
10.2307/3668394| The seedlings of 3 Caesalpiniaceae (Detarieae and Amherstieae), Aphanocalyx margininervatus J. Lonard, Detarium macrocarpum Harms and Gilletiodendron pierreanum (Harms) J. Lonard, are described. The structure of these seedlings is exactly the same as the structure of the seedlings previously known of these 3 genera. This similarity confirms not only the homogeneity of these genera, but also the fact that, in these two tribes, there is only one type of seedling in each genus. The seedlings of Oddoniodendron micranthum (Harms) Baker f. (Amherstieae), a genus of the "Berlinia complex", of which the seedlings were still unknown, are also described. The peculiar structure of the seedlings of this species, formerly placed in Berlinia, corroborates the validity of the genus Oddoniodendron. A key is given for the seedlings of 7 out of the 8 genera of the "Berlinia complex". This key confirms the generic value of the structure of the seedlings amongst the Amherstieae and shows, here also, that there is only one type of seedling in each genus. At present, the seedlings of 135 African species of these two tribes are known, i.e. 39-40% of the African species included in these tribes. These species belong to 44 out of the 52 African genera included in these two tribes, i.e. 84,6% of the African genera of these tribes. 
10.2307/3668006|Description of 10 new species of Thesium L. subsect. Fimbriata A. W. Hill from Zaire and Burundi.
10.2307/3668137| Le genre Stemodiopsis Engl. est examin et les caractres gnriques sont brivement discuts. Parmi les 11 noms publis, seulement 5 espces, S. rivae Engl., S. buchananii Skan, S. eylesii S. Moore, S. linearis S. Moore et S. glandulosa Philcox sont acceptes. Les espces connues de l'Afrique Centrale (Zare, Rwanda, Burundi) sont dcrites en dtail. Stemodiopsis scaettae Staner est mis dans le genre Crepidorhopalon  cause des tamines abaxiales et des poils claviformes  base pluricellulaire. La nouvelle combinaison C. scaettae (Staner) E. Fischer est faite. 
10.2307/3668139| Description d'une nouvelle espce, Plectranthus globosus Ryding (Lamiaceae) du Zare. L'anatomie du pricarpe est incluse dans la description. 
10.2307/3667721|Ardisia brandneriana L. Linden (Myrsinaceae), described in 1900 from Gabon, is proved to be a Psychotria species (Rubiaceae). A new combination in this genus is proposed. Some historical comment on the type collection is given.
10.2307/3667736|Ten new species and two new varieties are described in the genera Gutenbergia Sch. Bip., Bothriocline Oliver and Volkensia O. Hoffman (Asteraceae: Vernonieae). Five species are transferred from the genus Erlangea Sch. Bip. to the genus Bothriocline Oliv. A key to distinguish these genera is given.
10.2307/3667922|The species of Aframomum related to A. polyanthum are revised. A. polyanthum, previously known only from north of the Equator, is recorded from Zambia. A. zambesiacum is shown to have an extensive but discontinuous range from Malawi to Cameroun, with a new subspecies in Ethiopia. A. keniense and A. chlamydanthum become synonyms of A. zambesiacum.
10.2307/3667679|A key to the nine species of Ceropegia occuring in the Region of Shaba (formerly Katanga) is given. Seven species, for which additional material was gathered, are described and illustrated.
10.2307/3668225|A survey of the Agaricaceae in South America, north of the 40th parallel and up to the Tropic of Capricorne, comprises 40 taxa some of which are fully described from local collections. Keys are provided which contains 18 more species as guide marks for future investigations. New species: Agaricus chacoensis, cheilotulus, spegazzinianus, sulcatellus, tucumanensis and unguentolens. New name: Agaricus martineziensis (A. volvatus Martinez non Peck, non Pearson).
10.2307/3668053|The author describes 5 new species and 2 new varieties, and makes a few new combinations, in the genera Brachycorythis Lindley, Cynorkis Thouars, Disa Bergius and Habenaria Willd. A section from Habenaria is elevated to the rank of genus: Kryptostoma (Summerh.) Geerinck.
10.2307/3667858|Heliotropium micranthos (Pallas) Bunge and H. remotiflorum Rech. f. & H. Riedl were not mentioned for Iran in Rechinger's Flora Iranica (48. 1967). Both are annuals from desert sandy regions, the former is an Irano-Turanian species 'going down' to the Lut desert in the center of Iran, whereas the latter is a Saharo-Sindian species 'going up' to the Lut desert.
10.2307/3667493| Les nombres chromosomiques somatiques ont t tablis chez 80 taxons d'Angiospermes du Rwanda, Burundi et Kivu (Afrique centre-orientale). Des sources consultes, il apparat que la caryologie de 36 de ces taxons n'avait pas t tudie auparavant. Les comptages effectus sur du matriel d'Anisopappus (Asteraceae), Kotschya (Fabaceae) et Sericostachys (Amaranthaceae) semblent constituer de nouvelles donnes gnriques. La taxonomie et les nombres chromosomiques de certaines espces sont aussi discuts. /// Somatic chromosome numbers are reported for 80 taxa of Angiosperms from Rwanda, Burundi and Kivu (East central Africa). As far as the authors are aware, 36 of the taxa have not previously been studied caryologically. The counts on Anisopappus (Asteraceae), Kotschya (Fabaceae) and Sericostachys (Amaranthaceae) seem to be new generic reports. Comments are given on the taxonomy and the chromosome numbers of some species. 
10.2307/3667983| Description of four new species: Leucocoprinus pepinosporus, L. submontagnei, L. thoenii and L. violaceus; and of two new sections: Leucocoprinus sect. Pepinospori and sect. Velutipedes. Two new names: Leucocoprinus beelianus (for Lepiota citrinella Beeli) and L. velutipes (for L. flavescens Beeli); and four new combinations (all from Lepiota) are established: L. discoideus, L. elaidis, L. flavus and L. noctiphilus. An extended study, with colour plates, of these taxa as well as of others species of Leucocoprinus will appear in Flore illustre des champignons d'Afrique centrale, fasc. 5. 
10.2307/3668184|A taxonomic revision of the Irvingiaceae is presented. Three genera Desbordesia (1 species), Klainedoxa (2 species) and Irvingia (6 species) are recognised. Standard herbarium characters are not very useful in the identification of the species of Irvingia. Additional field characters and in particular fruit characters facilitate identification.
10.2307/3668472|The pioneer vegetation growing on the periodically flooded parts of the sandstone cliffs near Yanonge (Zaire) is made of a rich bryophytic community (16 species) dominated by Taxithelium subrotundatulum and Marchantia debilis. To this community succeeds a Biophytum zenkeri and Lepidagathis alopecuroides association (19 species) in which some pioneer species of a periodically flooded shrubby vegetation are already present. This bryophytic community, which also exists on the Yangambi cliffs, is different from the periodically flooded Marchantia debilis - Garckea comosa bryophytic association growing on the sandy cliffs of Yaselia studied by Demaret in 1954. The comparison between the synthetical association tables of the Biophytum and Lepidagathis vegetations growing on the Yanonge cliffs and on a periodically flooded rocky bank near the Tshopo waterfalls shows that this Biophytum and Lepidagathis association is characterized by 5 species, 2 of them, Biophytum zenkeri and Lepidagathis alopecuroides, being always present with a high cover-value. Three other species, although less frequent, Pycreus smithianus, Hybanthus enneaspermus and Anubias heterophylla, seem to find their optimum of development in this association.
10.2307/3667942| Une espce nouvelle du genre Physalacria est dcrite du Rwanda. Dans le genre elle est bien caractrise par des grandes macrocystides claviformes, des basides 4-sporiques et des petites spores. 
10.2307/3667475|Forty-five species (fifteen of them new for the territory) of Sclerodermatales, Tulostomatales (ordo nov.) and Lycoperdales have been found in Belgium. They are keyed and described and special attention is given to their ecology and chorology.
10.2307/3668029|Six new species of Micropsalliota from the Coast of Malabar (Kerala, India) are fully described and illustrated: M. alba, M. avellanea, M. cymbispora, M. malabarensis, M. pleurocystidiata and M. subalba.
10.2307/3667665|The chromosome numbers of 30 species of flowering plants collected in Africa were determined. The numbers given for 15 species are new.
10.2307/3667800| L'tude des grains d'amidon du latex des Euphorbes " coralliformes " de Madagascar a t entreprise dans le but de trouver un caractre permettant de dissocier des espces proches. Cela n'a pas t le cas, mais, il a t remarqu qu'au sein d'une mme espce, les pieds prs de la mer ont des grains de dimension suprieure  ceux poussant en altitude. D'autre part la dimension varie en fonction de la priode du cycle de vie: repos, floraison ou priode vgtative. /// The size and shape of starch grains in latex of some Euphorbia from Madagascar have been observed. Some variations in relation with the life cycle and the geographical repartition are noted, but the shape of the grains does not seem to constitute a good taxonomical character. 
10.2307/3668374|The monographic revision of the genus Baissea (Apocynaceae) presented here is based on the examination of herbarium material. The genus belongs to the subtribe Ichnocarpinae of the tribe Apocyneae. It is confined to continental Africa and contains 18 species of which 2 are new. All species are presented with a full description, illustration and a distribution map. A key to the species facilitates identification and a list of exsiccatae is added.
10.2307/3667544| Rvision taxonomique base sur les collections des herbiers les plus importants pour ce genre, qui se place mieux dans les Passifloraceae que dans les Flacourtiaceae. Une espce nouvelle, P. grandiflora Sleum., est dcrite de Madagascar. /// Taxonomic revision on the base of the collections of the herbaria most important for the genus, which finds its place with more certainty within the Passifloraceae than the Flacourtiaceae. One new species, P. grandiflora Sleum., is described from Madagascar. 
10.2307/3668030| A new key is given of the 34 known species and varieties of Micropsalliota, and also of 3 species at present placed in Agaricus. The genus is divided into 4 groups based on the colour of the pileus and on the habit of the fruitbody. Comments are given on the characters used to define the genus. A slenderness index is proposed, IG =
10.2307/3667898|Type specimens of Boletochaete spinifer and Tubosaeta brunneosetosa have been critically studied. The opinions expressed in the literature, especially regarding the presence and differentiation of cystidia and setae, are very confusing. This study reveals that Boletochaete (Gyrodontaceae) has no thick-walled setae, the latter are present however in Tubosaeta (Boletaceae). The recent collection of a Central African bolete, combining gyroporoid spores with numerous thick-walled setae as well as leptocystidia, necessitates the creation of the new genus Setogyroporus, with S. verus sp. nov. A key to the genera is provided.
10.2307/3668373| A forest with Parinari excelsa and Diospyros conocarpa is studied in the Kikwit region by means of the Zrich-Montpellier phytosociogical method. A detailed analysis of its floristic composition is given, as well as its biological, diaspore and leaf types, and phytogeographical spectra. The main edaphical data are also given. From a syngenetic point of view, this forest represents the regional climax. 
10.2307/3667856| The study of a natural population of Micrasterias C. Agardh ex Ralfs enables us to describe a new species, M. comperei, which differs from all the other species of the genus by the peculiar shape of the polar lobe. M. radiata var. bilobata Frster, provided with a similar polar lobe is ascribed to our new species as a variety under the name M. comperei var. bilobata. 
10.2307/3667713|A survey has been made on 510 fern species belonging to 240 of the 282 genera in Copeland's "Genera Filicum" (excl. Hymenophyllaceae and Hymenophyllopsidaceae, devoid of stomata) and 11 species of 11 genera not mentioned by Copeland. In all these species the epidermal and stomatal characters were studied; the classification of Copeland has been followed in listing the observations. Special attention is drawn to the different types of the adult stomata and 5 new descriptive terms have been chosen for types apparently not occuring in Monoor Dicotyledons. Evidence is given of the diagnostic value of the stomatal type and, in correlation with cytological data, an attempt has been made to show that characters of adult stomata in some families can be used as indicators of natural taxonomic affinity or even interrelationships between families. The possible variation of epidermal and stomatal characters was studied in a cosmopolitan species, Pteridium aquilinum (L.) Kuhn, showing the constancy for one species of several stomatal characters such as: type, structure, distribution, position and orientation, and, on the other hand, the variability of some epidermal characters such as: the undulation of the anticlinal walls and the dimensions of the cells. In the Filicopsida nine stomatal types were found: anomocytic, diacytic, cyclocytic, paracytic and the five "new" types, hypocytic, pericytic, desmocytic, polocytic and staurocytic. It seems to be significant that in some families differences in stomatal type coincide with splits already proposed by taxonomists.
10.2307/3667593|Description of a new species of Bignociaceae from Angola, Rhigozum angolense P. Bamps; key to the four Angolan species and their distribution maps in Angola.
10.2307/3668339|Descriptions of a new species in the genera Bidens L., Conyza L. and Crassocephalum Moench. A key to the Bidens of the Flora of Central Africa is provided and some synonymies and new combinations are made.
10.2307/3668094| Description d'une nouvelle espce d'Hunteria, H. ghanensis Hall Leeuwenberg, en provenance du Ghana mridional. 
10.2307/3668441|A new species of Ixora, I. manantoddii, from Kerala, India is described and illustrated. Pollen morphology of the new species has been studied by SEM & LM.
10.2307/3668052| In Zare, the genus Bonamia includes two species: B. vignei and B. spectabilis. B. vignei, known until now only from Ghana, is new for the flora of Central Africa. 
10.2307/3668475|At the end of 1940, 9705 species of Spermatophyta were mentioned in Central Africa (Zaire, Rwanda, Burundi). At the end of 1990, i.e. 50 years later, thanks to the publication of the Flore d'Afrique centrale, 4636 species were already described, 697 of them (15%) being considered as new for Science. After close examination, it appears that: 1, the number of the species mentioned in 1940 which have fallen into synonymy has been almost entirely counter-balanced by the discovery of new species; 2, the foreseeable number of Spermatophyta existing in Central Africa should statistically reach 9377 species; 3, nearly half of these putative species have therefore already been described (4636 in 50 years); 4, more or less 4741 species are still to be described, some of them could be new for Science.
10.2307/3668199| A new combination is presented in the genus Ageratinastrum Mattf. and the presence of the genus Brachythrix Wild & Pope is mentioned for the first time in Zare and Tanzania; a distribution map of B. brevipapposa Wild & Pope is given. A new species of Vernonia Schreb. is described. 
10.2307/3668204|List of 127 genera including 278 species of mosses gathered by the author during his three stays in Sri Lanka. Places visited are indicated on a map.
10.2307/3668376| Dipteropeltis, petit genre des Convolvulaceae de l'Afrique centrale, est tudi et sa position gnrique discute. Une nouvelle espce, D. macrantha du Gabon, est dcrite et illustre. Une cl pour les trois espces connues  prsent est donne et la distinction entre D. poranoides et D. mayumbensis est discute. Des cartes de distribution des espces sont figures. 
10.2307/3668134|A new Malagasy convolvulaceous species: Metaporana verdcourtii is described, and some morphological data on the until unknown fruits of M. parvifolia var. pilosa are given, emphasizing the significance of ovule abortion in the interpretation of the placentation. The now recognized four Malagasy species of the genus are mapped. Their distribution, ecology, and affinities are briefly discussed.
10.2307/3667874|The distribution and ecology of the three African and the single Malagasy species of Parkia (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae) are described in some detail. The citation of specimens is limited to one per degree square. The diagnostic features of each species are briefly summarized. Attention is drawn to the possible historical significance of some of the ecogeographical facts recorded.
10.2307/3667488| Gasteromycetes recently collected in Eastern Central Africa by Belgian botanists have been critically studied. Thirty nine species have been recorded. One is decribed as new (Corditubera kivuensis). The new combinations Corditubera bovonei (Matt.) Demoulin & Dring, Vascellum endotephrum (Pat.) Demoulin & Dring and Langermannia bicolor (Lv.) Demoulin & Dring are introduced. Among the species studied, ten had not been formerly recorded either in East or Central Africa, two are new for Africa (Nidula niveo-tomentosa and Mutinus bambusinus s. str.), four are recorded for the first time since their original description (Bovista aenea, Lycoperdon bicolor, Cyathus africanus, Mutinus zenkeri). Les Gastromyctes rcemment rcolts dans l'Est de l'Afrique Centrale par des botanistes belges ont fait l'objet d'une tude critique. Trenteneuf espces ont t recueillies. L'une d'elles est dcrite comme nouvelle (Corditubera kivuensis). Les nouvelles combinaisons Corditubera bovonei (Matt.) Demoulin & Dring, Vascellum endotephrum (Pat.) Demoulin & Dring et Langermannia bicolor (Lv.) Demoulin & Dring sont introduites. Parmi les espces tudies, dix n'avaient pas t indiques prcdemment en Afrique Centrale ni Orientale, deux sont nouvelles pour l'Afrique (Nidula niveo-tomentosa et Mutinus bambusinus s. str.); quatre sont signales pour la premire fois depuis leur description originale (Bovista aenea, Lycoperdon bicolor, Cyathus africanus, Mutinus zenkeri). 
10.2307/3668396| Description de Sorindeia gabonensis, espce nouvelle d'Anacardiaceae, uniquement connue du Gabon. L'espce est illustre et la carte montrant sa distribution est donne. 
10.2307/3668253|The present paper is a monographic treatment of the genera Cylindropsis and Vahadenia which are both endemic in tropical Africa.
10.2307/3668198|Five species, three subspecies and one variety are described in the genus Ipomoea.
10.2307/3667764| After revision, the African genus Necepsia Prain (Euphorbiaceae) comprises 3 species: N. afzelii Prain with 2 subspecies and 2 varieties (subsp. afzelii var. afzelii from Sierra Leone to Ghana, subsp. afzelii var. sitae var. nov. in the Congo and subsp. zenkeri subsp. nov. from Cameroon and Gabon), N. zairensis sp. nov. with 2 varieties (var. zairensis from Gabon to Zare and var. lujae var. nov. in the Zare) and N. castaneifolia (Baill.) comb. nov. (formerly included in Palissya and Neopalissya) with 4 subspecies [subsp. castaneifolia from north-western Madagascar, subsp. chirindica (A. Radcliffe-Smith) comb. nov. from eastern Zimbabwe, subsp. kimbozensis (A. Radcliffe-Smith) comb. nov. from eastern Tanzania and subsp. capuronii subsp. nov. from north-eastern Madagascar]. 
10.2307/3668020|Description of two new species of Callitriche L. from intertropical Africa. So far, both species have been identified as C. stagnalis Scop. Some important differences between these new taxa and C. stagnalis are given.
10.2307/3667920|Four vegetation belts are noticed at the locality of Pointe Saint-Georges, Lower Casamance (Senegal), on an area with seeping water (table 1). Table 2 gives some properties of the corresponding soils. Their Na and Mg content is apparently an important factor of individualization of the plant communities.
10.2307/3667672|In planted woods of Cupressus and Acacia in Burundi, the litter layer is more or less covered with bryophytes, flowering plants being almost excluded. From 17 of these woods, 28 different species were gathered and about 15 of them may be considered as typical for that habitat. The method of factor analysis, used to compare the vegetation of the different places, is described. This factor analysis shows some groupings, probably in connection with the age of the woods (tabl. 2).
10.2307/3668338| A new subspecies of filmy fern is described from the Uluguru Mts., Tanzania: Hymenophyllum triangulare Bak. subsp. uluguruense Korna. This is an East African vicariad of the West African H. triangulare subsp. triangulare. Thirteen diagnostic characters of both subspecies are analysed biometrically. The phytogeographical interest of discontinuous distribution of the species is discussed. 
10.2307/3668455|Mention is made of the existence of 4 Lemnaceae collected by the author in Chad. One of them, Wolffia arrhiza (L.) Horkel ex Wimm., from north of Lake Chad, is new for the Chad. The distribution of another, Spirodela polyrrhiza (L.) Schleid., is extended several hundred km to the north, in central Sahara, not far from the Libyan border.
