bullecosociamer.96.4.670|This article describes a project I developed as part of an environmental science course for second- and third-year undergraduate science majors. Students quantitatively evaluated their use of major resources (food, water, electricity, and waste/recycling generation) to assess their personal ecological footprints. To do so, students used inexpensive equipment and collected data throughout the day over several weeks. They compared data, which helped them appreciate the importance of standardized procedures. For a final report students managed, graphed, and interpreted data from a relatively large data set they generated in collaboration with each other. The data were shared anonymously, which allowed discussions about the ecological relevance of our resource use decisions. Based on feedback from student surveys, notable improvement in their graphing skills, and conversations with students, I regard the project as a success.
bullecosociamer.86.3.155|Jane K. Hart and Kirk Martinez,
bullecosociamer.95.1.30|A broad international agenda for research and education in systemic sustainability, holism, and anticipation is needed to meet the challenges of sustainability science and to anticipate a better future. We propose a new scientific and cultural framework for this agenda based on the need to couple bottomup and top-down causation to understand complex and living systems as more than mechanisms; involving complex feedbacks and information relations with multiple simultaneous contexts. The initial framework, which is itself a subject of investigation, is based on categorical relations between natural forms of information and material phenomenaa new vision of science and nature that is emerging in all fields today. The necessary coupling of essential causes or modes of explanation, can be accomplished rigorously and mathematically using the approach of relational biology pioneered by the mathematical biologist Robert Rosen. This approach suggests a deep natural foundation in the sciences that is quintessentially ecological, introducing a principle of natural relation and anticipation involving closed loops of causation that cannot exist as traditional mechanisms. The new agenda aims to understand systemic sustainability in proper balance with process sustainability, which tends to dominate sustainability research and practice today. At the same time, new organizational learning and entrepreneurship models are changing management, business, education, and social science toward more creative modes of functioning. These are met with a similar call for new models in education. The education agenda we envision will seek a balance between top-down and bottom-up modes of learning, perhaps following the example of Learning Organization; thus being largely student-driven, interdisciplinary, multi-cultural, experience based, and yet theory oriented as an open laboratory to discover natural principles of whole system function. Here we present an initial framework for this Ecological Literacy Leadership agenda, which will be further described in future papers.
bullecosociamer.93.3.223|It's not all about the science.
bullecosociamer.96.4.513|A caveat on this series of Bulletin articles on ESA by decade: this is not any kind of official history of ESA but simply one person's selective summary of interesting information gleaned from reading past
bullecosociamer.96.3.500|Despite the advent of GPS collars and technology, a large portion of wildlife studies still relies on radio-tracking to study the movement patterns, habitat selection, and space use of individual animals. I present here the "sigloc" package for the R software, which offers basic functions to analyze radio-tracking data, methods to estimate the location of a VHF transmitter using azimuth bearings, and interfaces with other R packages and functions. These tools can be downloaded freely on the internet and provide a powerful environment for the analysis of radio telemetry data.
20168195|The current abuse of the term and the concept of ecosystem in microbiology confirms the difficulty of distinguishing in practice the limits of the ecosystem and reveals the necessity of proposing new and operational tools for ecosystem recognition as such.
bullecosociamer.92.3.298|The recent version 6 release of the software
20167204|To forecast the ecological impact of global change, research initiatives are needed on the explicit role of humans in ecological systems, and on how ecological processes functioning at different spatial and temporal scales are coupled. Furthermore, to synthesize the results of ecological research for Congress, policymakers, and the general public, a new agency, called the United States Ecological Survey (USES) is urgently required. Also, a national commitment to environmental health, as exemplified by establishing a National Institutes of the Environment (NIE), should be a goal.
bullecosociamer.96.2.352|Science is a process of acquiring understanding, not just a collection of facts. The literature on teaching science emphasizes the importance of student researchteaching students to develop new knowledge, rather than solely assimilating facts. As student research becomes more widely integrated into curricula, there is an ongoing opportunity to develop and refine explicit techniques and tactics for facilitating authentic research by students. Here, we draw on our experience as instructors in the tropical biology field course at Dartmouth College to provide specific strategies and approaches that we have used to help students conceive and conduct original research projects. We organize our suggestions around the stages of the research process, from generating and refining questions, optimizing methods, and interpreting data, through presenting findings and placing research in a broader context. Although research skills often develop organically through immersion in research environments, it is our experience that explicit instruction can expedite the development of these critical skills.
20167204|To forecast the ecological impact of global change, research initiatives are needed on the explicit role of humans in ecological systems, and on how ecological processes functioning at different spatial and temporal scales are coupled. Furthermore, to synthesize the results of ecological research for Congress, policymakers, and the general public, a new agency, called the United States Ecological Survey (USES) is urgently required. Also, a national commitment to environmental health, as exemplified by establishing a National Institutes of the Environment (NIE), should be a goal.
bullecosociamer.96.2.352|Science is a process of acquiring understanding, not just a collection of facts. The literature on teaching science emphasizes the importance of student researchteaching students to develop new knowledge, rather than solely assimilating facts. As student research becomes more widely integrated into curricula, there is an ongoing opportunity to develop and refine explicit techniques and tactics for facilitating authentic research by students. Here, we draw on our experience as instructors in the tropical biology field course at Dartmouth College to provide specific strategies and approaches that we have used to help students conceive and conduct original research projects. We organize our suggestions around the stages of the research process, from generating and refining questions, optimizing methods, and interpreting data, through presenting findings and placing research in a broader context. Although research skills often develop organically through immersion in research environments, it is our experience that explicit instruction can expedite the development of these critical skills.
