4032866|Field and herbarium studies of Gentiana linearis Froel. indicate that this species occurs in two areas in the Southern Appalachians: the Allegheny Mountains from Randolph County, West Virginia, to southern Pennsylvania, and disjunctly on Mt. LeConte, Tennessee, in the Great Smoky Mountains. Reports of G. linearis in Virginia and North Carolina are rejected. In the southern part of its range, this species is restricted to habitats with cool climates, ample moisture, and strongly acid soils.
4032842|Topography, climate, edaphology, and vegetation of Presquile, a James River island in Chesterfield County, Virginia, are considered in this study. A brief history of the island is provided. Seven soil types occurring on the island are described. Plant communities are classified as river escarpment, fill, swamp, marsh, and field border, and each is described. Species characterizing each community are given. A map of the island showing habitats is included.
4033845|Monk et al. (1990) recently concluded that hickories (Carya spp.) are not important enough in eastern United States forests to justify the Oak-Hickory and Oak-Pine-Hickory names which have been applied to some regions. This conflicts with a finding by Farrell and Ware (1991) that hickories are abundant in forests of the northern Virginia Piedmont. A reanalysis of composition of 75 upland hardwood forest stands from the south, central, and northern Virginia Piedmont revealed that hickories had high structural importance in 15 stands of Triassic substrates in northern Virginia, but were rarely important in 60 stands on the prevailing non-Triassic (Paleozoic and pre-Cambrian) substrates in either northern, central, or southern Virginia. In the 60 stands, Carya importance value ranked behind Quercus, Nyssa, and Acer, even though the latter two genera were represented by only one species each (vs. four species of Carya). There seems to be little quantitative basis for including hickory in the name of the prevailing hardwood forest association of the Virginia Piedmont. Monk et al.'s (1989) proposed names "mixed oak" or "oak" may be more appropriate than the "oak-(pine)-hickory" name used by Oosting (1956), Vankat (1979), and Greller (1988, 1989).
4033446|Extensive stands of Cerastium dubium (Caryophyllaceae) have been located in two contiguous counties (Effingham and Fayette) of central Illinois. This is only the second report of occurrence in North America and the first for the eastern half of the continent. A key is presented, in which this weedy species is compared with and distinguished from seven sympatric members of Cerastium growing in fields or ruderal habitats. Chromosome counts of five species are included, which support previous reports of a basic chromosome number of x = 18 (or 9?) for the genus. In contrast to the published meiotic number of n = 19 for European populations of C. dubium, we obtained n = 18 for the Illinois populations.
24619561|Trillium (Melanthiaceae) is a highly diverse genus in the Southeast and includes many local endemics. Previous studies on Trillium in eastern North America identified significant genetic strucutre associated with limited seed dispersal and historical landscape barriers. In this study, genetic structure was examined in Trillium cuneatum and T. stamineum across Mississippi and western Alabama to look for further evidence that landscape features influence genetic structure at local scales. DNA sequence variation in the trnL intron and trnL-trnF intergenic region was examined across 12 populations of T. cuneatum and six populations of T. stamineum. Samples of Trillium ludovicianum and Trillium foetidissimum were included for comparison. Five and four haplotypes were discovered in T. cuneatum and T. stamineum, respectively, but most populations were fixed for a single haplotype. Haplotypes from T. cuneatum in southwestern Mississippi were also present in congeneric species. Significant geographic structure was found in both species, and divergent haplotypes found on either side of the Tombigbee and Black Warrior Rivers suggest barriers to gene flow in the study area. Strong population differentiation suggests that seed dispersal is limited in both species. Given the strong degree of genetic structure detected in both species and their preference of mesic forests, it is expected that both species will continue to diverge at local scales.
4034134|Yalobusha County, located in the north-central portion of Mississippi, consists of 130,535 hectares. Vascular plants were collected and documented between August 1998 and April 2001. A total of 805 species is documented, representing 414 genera and 133 families. Poaceae is the largest family (11.3%), followed by Asteraceae (10.6%) and Cyperaceae (9.0%). One hundred eighteen species can be considered exotic. A new state record, the fern Deparia petersenii, is reported. Eight state-listed species, Scleria reticularis (S1), Carex stricta (S2), Celastrus scandens (S2/S3), Chelone glabra (S3), Matelea carolinensis (S3), Panax quinquefolium (S3), Staphylea trifolia (S3), and Muhlenbergia sylvatica (SU) are reported. Voucher specimens of each species are deposited at Delta State University (DSC).
4034334|Ten species of Trillium (Liliaceae) are known to occur in Virginia. Taxonomic key, morphological descriptions, distribution maps and chromosome numbers are presented. A chromosome number of 2n = 10 was verified for: Trillium cernuum, T. erectum, T. flexipes, T. grandiflorum, T. luteum, T. nivale, T. pusillum, T. sessile, T. sulcatum, and T. undulatum. Some chromosome morphology data are applied to the discussion of T. pusillum, and also reinforce that T. sulcatum and T. erectum are separate taxa.
23274400|The first occurrence of Lythrum hyssopifolia L. (hyssop loosestrife or grass poly, Lythraceae) is documented for Illinois. This Old World native is presently known from every continent except Antarctica with its North American distribution limited to thirteen states within the United States as well as two Canadian provinces.
24619724|Youngia thunbergiana is documented for North America from Alabama, Georgia, Maryland, Virginia, and South Carolina. Lloyd Shinners in 1964 reported this species for the District of Columbia and North Carolina, a fact apparently overlooked by subsequent investigators. When recognized, this taxon was generally treated as Youngia japonica subsp. elstonii, based on specimens from Hawaii, in accordance with the monograph of Youngia by Babcock and Stebbins (1937). Subsequently, when not accorded taxonomic recognition, it has been regarded as a synonym of the Y. japonica polymorphic complex. Shinners presented evidence for recognition at specific rank and, as such, asserted that Y. thunbergiana is its correct name. The present research is in agreement with his findings of Shinners. Youngia pseudosenecio is another name subsequently proposed within the Y. japonica complex that has been synonymized with Y. japonica subsp. elstonii. Nuclear ITS sequence data lend support to Y. pseudosenecio and Y. thunbergiana being the same species and that this entity represents a lineage distinct from Y. japonica.
4032710|Keys, distribution maps, habitats, references, and nomenclature are given for the Onagraceae that have been found in Georgia, native or naturalized. Genera included are: Ludwigia, Oenothera, Epilobium, Circaea, and Gaura.
4032818|A small area of diverse habitats and floras in southeastern Virginia is examined for plant communities and vegetation.
4032767|Variation was studied through the entire altitude range and flowering season of Rhododendron calendulaceum (Michx.) Torrey, the flame azalea, in the Nantahala Mountains of North Carolina. Morphological, biochemical, and cytological characters were used in evaluating the species for the presence of phenological forms. No distinct forms were recognizable, nor was it possible to substantiate the contribution of R. bakeri (Lemmon and McKay) Hume to the broad variability of the species. Reasons for the discrepancy between the results of this and previous studies of the area are discussed.
41301483|This study investigated several ecological parameters for populations of Obolaria virginica in southeast Missouri where it is listed as endangered. Investigations during the 2006 and 2007 growing seasons included population size estimates and dispersal patterns. A secondary investigation during the 2007 season quantitatively assessed the impact of leaf litter on O. virginica flower production. Obolaria virginica reflected the pattern of a spring ephemeral with emergence as early as mid-February and senescence by early June. Plants grew to an average of 9.2 cm in height and had 14 flowers per individual in each season. Population size estimates ranged from 833-7,820 individuals, with a distinctly clumped distribution pattern. Leaf litter depth appears to negatively affect emergence and flower production in this perennial forest herb.
4034086|The goals of this study were to document natural hybridization between Rhododendron periclymenoides and R. atlanticum and to assess its significance relative to herbivory by Pyrrhalta rufosanguinea, a leaf beetle believed to be monophagous for R. periclymenoides. Populations of the Rhododendron species and a putative hybrid swarm were compared using a mixture of quantitative morphological and micromolecular characters. Herbivory in parental and hybrid populations was estimated in cafeteria style host-choice experiments. Principal components analysis and discriminant analysis suggested bidirectional introgression in the hybrid population. Feeding levels were significantly higher for putative introgressants to R. periclymenoides than for introgressants to R. atlanticum. In the hybrid population, percent leaf area eaten by the beetles was positively correlated with leaf size and concentrations of the flavonoid asebotin and its aglycone, but negatively correlated with glandular trichome density and the concentration of myricentin 3-0-rhamnoside. Two hypotheses regarding the evolutionary significance of natural hybridization between the two Rhododendron species are proposed: 1) introgression from R. atlanticum to R. periclymenoides may result in greater resistance of R. periclymenoides to P. rufosanguinea; 2) gene flow from R. periclymenoides to R. atlanticum may allow P. rufosanguinea to become adapted to R. atlanticum.
4033723|Vascular plants of high-elevation cliffs and rock outcrops were sampled on 42 peaks in the Southern Appalachians. Species found were predominantly native, summer-flowering, herbaceous perennials. Species endemic to the Southern and Central Appalachians comprise over 25% of the total flora; species restricted to eastern North America include nearly 50% of the flora. The diversity of biogeographic affinities shows that the northern alpine element (those species found above treeline in the Northern Appalachians) is only a small subset of the total flora. At least 17% of species were likely components of the Pleistocene alpine flora. An annotated checklist of the 288 species is provided.
4032724|Sampling of a second-growth, mesic upland stream bottom and adjacent north and south slope forests on the Cumberland Plateau of eastern Kentucky yielded detailed information on the strucutre of the canopy, subcanopy, and shrub synusia. The upland stream bottom and north slope communities were dominated by vigorous even-aged stands of Liriodendron tulipifera with an understory of shade-intolerant species. South slope dominants included Quercus alba and several species of Carya with an understory of mixed shade-tolerant and intolerant species.
20433966|A survey of myxomycetes was conducted at three sites within Long Hunter State Park, Davidson County, Tennessee, from May 6 to September 30, 2006. Fruiting bodies that developed on samples of bark and plant debris placed in moist chamber cultures were used to supplement field collections. Results include 207 specimens representing 67 species of myxomycetes in 25 genera. Three species (Arcyria minuta, Licea cf. eleanorae, Licea cf. rugosa) appear to be new reports for the United States and a fourth species (Physarum auriscalpium) is a new report for Tennessee.
27742891|The palmettos Serenoa repens and Sabal etonia are foundation species in many peninsular Florida vegetative associations. We monitored survival and growth of palmetto seedlings using two cohorts found in different vegetative associations. Mixed-species cohorts containing both Serenoa repens and Sabal etonia were individually tagged in 1989 and have been monitored until 2008. One cohort (N = 100 seedlings) is in an "inopina-phase" scrubby flatwoods and a second cohort (N = 78 seedlings) is in a "wiregrass-phase" flatwoods. The sand substrates at both sites are nutrient-poor Entisols that show rapid permeability, low available-water capacity, and acidic pH. In addition to experiencing seasonal and variable annual precipitation patterns, these cohorts endured a severe and prolonged drought during 19992001 as well as an intense fire at the height of this drought. Seedlings showed remarkable survivorship, with 57% of the flatwoods cohort and 35% of the scrubby flatwoods cohort surviving from 1989 until 2008. In spite of their high survival, the seedlings experienced minimal height and crown width increases during the 19-year study. Height increase from 1989 to 2008 for the flatwoods cohort was a modest &lt;0.5 cm per year and that of scrubby flatwoods was 0.3 cm per year. Serenoa repens and Sabal etonia seedlings show extraordinary persistence and tolerance but at a cost of exceptionally slow growth rates. These data suggest that: (1) the transition from seedlings to reproductive palmettos in nutrient-poor Florida uplands takes multiple decades; and, (2) the restoration of palmettos as foundation species in disturbed sites will require effort.
4034075|Chromosome counts from 44 populations, representing four species of Chelone from throughout its range in eastern North America, are reported for the first time and counts from six populations examined by other researchers are discussed. Chromosome number determinations in Chelone generally agree with those of previous work and suggest a base number of x = 14 and an euploid series: C. cuthbertii, C. glabra, and C. lyonii are 2n = 28; C. obliqua populations in the southern Blue Ridge are 2n = 4x = 56; whereas C. obliqua populations from elsewhere are 2n = 6x = 84. The taxonomy of species, distribution of chromosome races, and cytotypes are discussed.
4033049|Aerial photography indicated that Justicia americana is confined to the hardwater section of the New River. This species was determined to be moderately calciphilous based on average conductivity and hardness ratio of the water it inhabited. Productivity and standing crop averaged 23.3 g ash free dry weight (AFDW)
4034135|Morphometric and genetic variation were assessed in populations of Eriocaulon koernickianum Van Heurck & Muller-Argoviensis, an uncommon species that is disjunct between the southern Appalachian and the Ozark and Ouachita Mountains, and adjacent regions. The eastern populations possessed smaller and fewer leaves and flowering scapes than the western populations. However, no discontinuities in floral morphology were apparent between populations from the two geographic regions. Furthermore, little genetic variation or divergence, as measured by isozymes, was observed within or among populations, suggesting that a genetic bottleneck occurred in the recent past in this predominantly-outcrossing species. The limited genetic variation suggests that simple vicariance and contemporary long distance seed dispersal are unlikely, and instead that fragmentation and recolonization (perhaps following the Pleistocene epoch) may explain the current biogeography.
4033910|Andromonoecy is a rare sexual system in which plants produce both bisexual and male flowers. In this paper we present the results of a quantitative study on the relative production of male and bisexual flowers in Prunus caroliniana (Rosaceae). Ten individual trees located in Statesboro, Georgia were sampled to determine the relative production of male and bisexual flowers. Approximately 80% of the 5,000 sampled flowers were male. Male flower production at the whole plant level ranged from 38% to 98%. Thus, some individual plants were reproducing almost exclusively via male function and pollen donation while others presumably had more mixed mating patterns. The patterns of sex expression revealed here suggest that subtle changes in floral morphology associated with andromonoecy may be occuring in many more taxonomic entities than is currently believed.
4033229|An old-growth American beech community on a peninsula associated with Toledo Bend Reservoir in eastern Texas was analyzed by the plot method. Based on importance value, the community was dominated by Fagus grandifolia. Carpinus caroliniana was also prevalent. Other associated species of importance were Ostrya virginiana and Magnolia grandifolia. Results indicated that the forest was near virgin and displayed affinities with the Southern Mixed Hardwood Forest of the Coastal Plain and forests to the northeast.
23274384|Harperella (Harperella nodosum) is the only federally listed endangered plant species in the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park (C&O Canal NHP) in the National Park Service in Maryland and one of four federally listed endangered plant species in West Virginia. This paper contrasts unsuccessful and successful efforts to reintroduce harperella seedlings in the main stem of the flood-prone Potomac River and on opposite sides of the river in damp sites in western Maryland and in streams in northeastern West Virginia. The reintroduction efforts in Maryland unsuccessfully transplanted seedlings on cobble bars on the Maryland side of the Potomac River and in artificial sites in the prism of the C&O Canal where harperella had never been found; the reintroduction efforts in West Virginia successfully transplanted seedlings on cobble bars in two tributaries of the Potomac River in West Virginia where harperella populations once flourished but in the last decade or so had been decimated by floods and ice damage. This investigation has contributed to defining harperella's life-cycle characteristics and ecological requirements. The data and observations presented can be used as a guide for reintroducing harperella seedlings and, by extension, other semiaquatic plant species into appropriate sites.
4034329|Castillo de San Marcos National Monument, St. Augustine, Florida, is administered by the National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, and comprises 8.5 ha (20.5 acres) including the moat and expansive embankment (glacis) surrounding the historic fortress, as well as landscaping adjacent to parking lots and park headquarters. A floristic survey was conducted to provide park service personnel with a vouchered plant species checklist for the entire park, including the flourishing flora supported by the 10 m (33 ft) tall fort walls. Four intensive collecting trips conducted in 2003-04 yielded 153 species of plants in 129 genera of 61 families, including 56 species growing on the coquina walls of the fortress. Asteraceae, Poaceae, and Fabaceae had the largest number of species. Diagrams of the fort and photographs of representative plant species on the shellstone walls are also provided. Control measures for the wall vegetation are briefly discussed.
4032888|Data are presented on first date of anthesis of 42 species from all synusia within Fernbank Forest during the years 1967-1971. In addition to determinations of mean date of first flower and range in date of first flower over the timespan, comparisons are offered between dates of anthesis and foliation during one year of the study. The role of light in the phenology of spring-blooming species is discussed and comparisons made with previous findings from the literature. Comparisons of mean date of anthesis during each respective year with mean departures from 30-year temperature averages during the spring months indicate that anthesis occurs earlier in warmer-than-normal years and is retarded in cooler years. Although many additional environmental factors doubtless affect time of flowering, available precipitation during the spring months appeared to have little discernable effect on blooming dates, according to our data.
4034302|A survey of the woody plants was conducted at the Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area, a 49,776 ha (123,000 acre) natural area on the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee and Kentucky. The annotated catalogue consists of 216 (186 native) species and lesser taxa in 114 (102 native) genera and 55 (52 native) families. One hundred thirty-three taxa are county records. Magnolia fraseri and Ilex ambigua var. ambigua, collected in Scott County, are physiographic records for the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee. Twelve listed taxa of conservation concern were documented including two Federally Threatened species (Conradina verticillata and Spiraea virginiana). The Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area was compared to 12 other natural areas including the Obed Wild and Scenic River, Land Between the Lakes, Prentice Cooper State Forest and Wildlife Management Area, and the Great Smoky Mountain National Park. Results show that the Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area is among the most floristically rich natural areas in the Southern Appalachians.
4032396|A survey was made of the flowering plants found within the 170,000-acre Land Between the Lakes recreation area of Kentucky and Tennessee. A total of 789 species representing 427 genera and 116 families were collected. A phylogenetic list of taxa is included.
4033804|The vascular flora of Rock Creek Park, Washington, D.C., was surveyed from 1986 through 1994. The park is a forested steep valley in the eastern deciduous forest ecosystem, with 85% of its 1754 acres in natural forest. A total of 656 species representing 374 genera and 106 families were documented. Of these, 418 species are indigenous and 238 are introduced. Voucher specimens were deposited in the United States National Herbarium in The District of Columbia and Vicinity collection. In addition to providing a list of plants currently in the Park, this collection will contribute to the checklist of the Flora of Washington, D.C. and Vicinity, in progress at the Smithsonian Institution. Prior to this study, the last period of intensive collecting within Washington, D.C. was approximately 100 years ago.
4032666|Twenty-six cluster analyses based on nineteen diverse characters were performed on a group of ten OTU's in the genus Sarracenia in the southeastern United States. The resulting four affinity groups are shown, followed by a discussion of phenetic and possible genetic and convergent relationships within the genus.
4032689|The introduction and spread of Rhamnus frangula (glossy buckthorn) in Ohio is studied, primarily by means of herbarium specimens and literature. In all probability, R. frangula entered the Ohio flora in the early 1920's with the westward spread of the European starling (Sturnus vulgaris). During the last 50 years it has become naturalized and locally well established in a number of northeastern Ohio counties.
20433926|The 15,410 ha Tallgrass Prairie Preserve (Osage County, Oklahoma), managed by The Nature Conservancy, consists of a variety of grassland, forested, wetland, and disturbed habitats. 1,612 specimens of vascular plants collected between 1992 and 2007 were examined to obtain a vouchered flora of the preserve. The known flora consists of 763 species in 411 genera and 109 families. 12.1% of the species are not native to North America.
4032502|The effect of nutrient enrichment (accelerated eutrophication) on algal succession was studied in two adjacent, morphologically similar central Virginia ponds with different trophic states (one already receiving animal waste effluent was eutrophic, the other unenriched pond was oligotrophic). A comparison of phytoplankton development and nutrient levels in the two ponds was established prior to the diversion of effluent wastes into the oligotrophic pond. The eutrophic pond's higher trophic status appeared to have been induced by sewage effluent. Each pond contained a distinctive algal flora; the organically enriched waters of the eutrophic pond supported large populations of blue greens, coccoid green algal, and flagellates while the nutrient poor oligotrophic pond contained lower numbers of phytoplankton and a paucity of filamentous green algae, desminds, pennate diatoms and dinoflagellates. After diversion of wastes into the as yet unenriched oligotrophic pond, the ponds were closely monitored to observe changes in algal flora and trophic levels. Throughout the study the biological productivity of both lakes was determined periodically by measuring
4032340|This floristic survey of the Thompson River watershed is the last in a series of such studies of the gorges of the southern Blue Ridge escarpment. The study area is described and comments are made on the vegetation types represented. The annotated checklist includes one state record for North Carolina (Transylvania Co.), Calamagrostis porteri A. Gray, and one state record for South Carolina (Oconee Co.), Polygonum cespitosum L. var. longisetum (DeBruyn) Stewart. Forty-five species are reported as new to the escarpment gorges, of which twenty-one are also records for Transylvania Co., N. C., one for Jackson Co., N. C., and two for Oconee Co., S. C. A total of 547 species was collected.
4032765|Keys, distribution maps, habitats, references and nomenclature are given for 14 families of flowering plants occurring naturally or naturalized in Mississippi. Families included are: Aizoaceae, Balsaminaceae, Boraginaceae, Bromeliaceae, Burmanniaceae, Cactaceae, Commelinaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Dioscoreaceae, Passifloraceae, Plumbaginaceae, Primulaceae, Rubiaceae, and Valerianaceae.
4033725|Samples (n = 56) of six species of bryophytes were collected from eight sites in Eastern Kentucky and analyzed for Cu, Cr, Fe, Mn and Zn via neutron activation analysis. The concentrations of copper and iron in Eastern Kentucky moss tissue were considerably higher than at other North American sites. Concentrations of zinc, manganese, and chromium fell well within the reported values for other North American locations. Iron was found in Kentucky moss tissues in concentrations of 10
4033834|The vascular flora and arborescent vegetation of a 90 km
4033218|The taxonomic treatments of the common hydrangeas of the eastern United States have varied over the years. The most recent treatment, that of McClintock in 1957, recognizes a single species, Hydrangea arborescens, with three subspecies--arborescens, discolor, and radiata--on the basis of vestiture type, trichome features, frequency of sterile flowers, and geographical distribution. Extensive field collections from the Southern Appalachians, where these three taxa are sympatric, were made to determine the extent of chemical, morphological, and reproductive discontinuities which exist among these entities. Based upon the evidence from these studies, it is proposed that these taxa be recognized as three distinct species: Hydrangea arborescens L., Hydrangea cinerea Small, and Hydrangea radiata Walter.
4033254|Frequency of occurrence changes are cited for 69 non-indigenous plant taxa listed by Edwin L. Moseley in 1928. Of these taxa, approximately 38% are more frequent now (1978) than 50 years ago. Twenty-nine percent exhibit the same frequency of occurrence, while 33% are less frequent than they were 50 years ago. The number of non-indigenous taxa in the flora has increased from 10% to 18% during the past 50 years. Changes in the frequency of occurrence generally are brought about by changes in roadside habitats, railroad maintenance activities, and by construction of new residential communities.
41301505|A survey of grasses from the Flat Rock Cedar Glades and Barrens State Natural Area in Murfreesboro, Tennessee was undertaken during the 2008 growing season with the goal of creating a comprehensive list of grass species living in a single glade environment. Twenty four different species were identified during the survey. All had been previously recorded in Tennessee but two had not been noted in cedar glades, Sprorobilus dandestinus and Elymus hystrix, and one, Dichanthelium scoparium, had not been demonstrated in Rutherford County. The survey also provides information on species distribution within the glade, amount of sunlight exposure, and flowering time within the growing season. The plastid matK and rbcL genes and the trnH-psbA intergenic spacer region were sequenced from the specimens and are cataloged in GenBank. Variance analysis of matK and rbcL loci was conducted with the sequences produced in this study as well as GenBank archived sequences from other grasses. Our data conservatively suggest that the Consortium for the Barcode of Life (CBOL) recommended loci, matK and rbcL, should enable Poaceae species identification with 95% accuracy.
4034156| The southeastern United States endemic plant species Trepocarpus aethusae (Apiaceae) behaves as a winter annual, with seeds germinating in autumn and bolting, flowering, and seed production occurring the following growing season. Vernalization was not required for flowering, and plants flowered under both short and long days. Like seeds of two other winter annuals in the Apiaceae, Chaerophyllum tainturieri and Ptilimnium nuttallii, those of T. aethusae have underdeveloped, physiologically dormant embryos, and thus they have morphophysiological dormancy. Physiological dormancy was broken by warm stratification, and after it was broken embryo growth and germination occurred in 68-73% of the seeds in light and in 52-65% of those in darkness at 15/6, 20/10, and 25/15C. Unlike seeds of C. tainturieri and P. nuttallii, which can re-enter physiological dormancy in autumn and undergo annual dormancy/nondormancy cycles, only 1-12% of T. aethusae seeds re-entered physiological dormancy. However, T. aethusae forms a long-lived persistent soil seed bank; it mostly is attributed to a delay in loss of physiological dormancy and not to dormancy cycling. A comparison of dormancy-breaking and germination requirements does not reveal any reason why C. tainturieri is more weedy than the other two species of Apiaceae. However, seeds of C. tainturieri mature in late May-early June, those of P. nuttallii in mid to late June, and those of T. aethusae in mid to late August and early September. Thus, C. tainturieri can grow in fields and on roadsides and complete its life cycle before these habitats are disturbed by human activities, but the other two species could not complete their life cycle under these conditions. 
4032730| Pinus glabra Walt. is limited in its distribution to the lower coastal plain of the southeastern states; and particularly in South Carolina to areas having similar soil associations which are loamy, low in organic content, and acid in reaction. Seeds of P. glabra show 60 per cent germination after seven days stratification at 4C. Exposure to light has no influence on germination percentage. Seedling survival is dependent upon the formation of mycorrhizal roots, which is dependent upon the distribution of mycorrhizal fungi in native soil. 
4034018| Federal land managers use prescribed burning to restore degraded yellow pine stands of the southern Appalachian Mountains. When justifying burning decisions, land managers need evidence of past fire occurrences in the selected stands. This research explored using macroscopic charcoal in soils as an indicator of past fire occurrences. Soil cores were extracted in 10-cm increments from seven yellow pine stands. Soil cores were retrieved from erosional (summit, shoulder, backslope) and depositional (footslope and toeslope) slope positions. Each 10-cm soil sample was examined for the presence or absence of charcoal. The mean percentage of soil samples per site containing macroscopic charcoal fragments was 85.0  12.5%. The presence or absence of charcoal did not differ with sampling depth or with slope position. These results demonstrated that macroscopic charcoal is present in soils supporting these yellow pine stands and serves as an indicator of past fire events. It is important to remember that the charcoal in each sample may be from multiple fires. Furthermore, these methods do not answer questions of when the fire occurred or historic fire frequencies. 
4033101|The results of a floristic survey of the herbaceous vascular plants of a cedar glade in Blue Licks Battlefield State Park, Robertson County, Kentucky, are presented and discussed. Seventy-four species of herbaceous angiosperms representing 24 families were identified on the glade. The Compositae (15 species) and Gramineae (12 species) are represented by the largest number of taxa. Of the 68 native species, 50 are perennials, 4 are biennials or monocarpic perennials, 11 are summer annuals and only 3 are winter annuals. Of the six introduced species, two are perennials, one is a summer annual and three are biennials. The only known extant populations of the rare Kentucky endemic, Solidago shortii T.&G., occur on the Blue Licks glade and in its immediate vicinity, and the glade is one of only two known localities in Kentucky for Spiranthes magnicamporum Sheviak. Solidago shortii and Hypericum dolabriforme Vent. are the only southeastern United States cedar glade endemics that occur at Blue Licks.
4033993|To determine the extent to which pollinator scarcity and/or specificity may account for the rarity of Ribes echinellum, and to provide information for protection, pollinators and pollinator behavior were observed. The primary pollinators at both Florida and South Carolina stations were large bees including species of Bombus, as well as Habropoda laboriosa. The pollinators are widespread, at least locally common, and are not host-specific, apart from an association with pendent blossoms in Habropoda laboriosa. Although neither pollinator rarity, nor pollinator specificity, appear to provide an adequate explanation for the rarity of Ribes echinellum, high floristic diversity in relicts of mesophytic forest may contribute to the persistence of the rare shrub by maintaining the large bee populations necessary for cross-pollination. The bees land on the pendent flowers immediately assuming an inverted position while grasping the reflexed calyx lobes and petals with hindlegs, and stamens and style with forelegs. In this position the anthers and style tips are brought into contact with the ventral thorax and abdomen, while the bee probes the floral tube. Protandry and circumstantial evidence suggest a reliance on pollinators for fruit development.
4032837|This floristic study treats the 29 species of Eleocharis native or adventive to Florida. A key to all species is given, utilizing both vegetative and fruiting characters, and a second key is provided to the vegetative characteristics of the 4 species that regularly reproduce by proliferation at the apex of the culms. Distribution within the state is shown by maps based on county records. E. radicans is newly reported for the state, and the presence of E. acicularis, E. atropurpurea, E. fallax, E. minima, E. montana, E. nana, E. olivacea, E. parvula, and E. robbinsii is confirmed. E. rostellata and E. tortilis remain as tentatively accepted members of the flora. E. nigrescens is noted as a rapidly spreading adventive.
4033976|The Southern Blue Ridge Province of the Appalachian Mountains is defined by its geographic distribution, geology, soils, and vegetation. This province is bounded by the Piedmont Province to the east and the Valley and Ridge Province to the west and extends from northern Alabama and Georgia into southern Virginia. The underlying ancient rocks consist mostly of sandstones, shales, and related rocks that were metamorphosed and later overthrust onto rocks of the Valley and Ridge. Blue Ridge topography is but a remnant of a much more extensive mountain range. Present-day topography and climate are probably relicts of the Tertiary and Pleistocene. Because of the climate and bedrock, a dominant feature of the region is dynamic chemical weathering that has produced acidic soils and saprolite on dominantly steep slopes supporting acid-loving vegetation. The vegetation also has long history of development with many extant genera showing relationships to Pleistocene and earlier floras. The flora contains varied species including many genera that may be found in Tertiary fossils, such as Sassafras; tropically derived elements such as the filmy ferns, Trichomanes spp. and Hymenophyllum spp.; elements that are disjunct with other parts of the world, such as members of the magnolia family of southeast Asia; relicts of the glacial periods such as Trichophorum cespitosum; and narrow endemics such as Rhododendron vaseyi.
4034043|Native and non-native vascular plants at Fisherman Island, Virginia, collected in 1975-76 by Boule were compared with the 222 taxa collected in the floristic survey of 1993-1995 by Stalter and Lamont. In contingency table analysis of log-likelihood, the frequency of non-native vascular plants within the highly disturbed ruderal plant community at Fisherman Island is highly significantly greater (64.7%, G = 59, 1 df, P < 0.0001) than at the sand dune, salt marsh, immature maritime forest, and swale (0%, 3.5%, 2.9%, 23.9%, respectively), where human disturbance is minimal. There is a highly statistically significant difference between the pattern in which native species versus non-native species sort themselves out across the five communities (G = 82, 4 df, P < 0.0001). The overall percentage of 20.1% for non-native vascular taxa at Fisherman Island in 1975-76 collected by Boule is not significantly different from the overall percentage of 22.1% for non-native vascular plants collected in this study (G = 0.19, 1 df, P = 0.66).
4033117|Analysis of some Virginia species with SW-NE distributional patterns shows they are western species which migrated northeastward during the Holocene, and this group is but a small sample of an important western element in the flora of eastern North America.
4032559|A small presumably relict stand of Thuja occidentalis was found on a north-facing bluff of the James River in the Virginia Piedmont. An outcropping of calcareous rocks at the site is mainly responsible for the presence of the Thuja as well as several other calciphiles.
4033502|The cedar glade endemic Viola egglestonii is reported for the first time from Indiana, eastern Tennessee and two additional counties in Kentucky. In Indiana, the species grows on a Paleozoic (shaley) limestone glade in Harrison County in the Interior Low Plateaus Physiographic Province, in eastern Tennessee it occurs on Paleozoic limestone glades in Hamilton and Meigs counties in the Ridge and Valley Physiographic Province and in Kentucky the new records of occurrence are for limestone glades in Jefferson and Hardin counties in the Interior Low Plateaus Physiographic Province.
4032357|Determined histology by transverse sections of mycorrhizae that occurred on roots of species of hardwood forest trees in Georgia Piedmont Region. Ectotrophic type was found on 7 species. Sand hickory had both endotrophic and ectotrophic types while yellow poplar had endotrophic and ectendotrophic types. According to these data, the ectotrophic mycorrhizae are most common type on hardwood species.
4033674|The keynote address for the symposium, "Invasion of the South: The Ecological Impact and Control of Exotic Weeds in the Southeastern United States" was based on this paper. The purpose of the paper is to provide a national pest management context for subsequent papers of the symposium on specific impacts and control technologies, particularly biological control of weeds. It describes a typical conflict of interest in implementing alternative pest management technologies, briefly explains the intent of the National Environmental Policy Act to encourage a balance of societal benefits for any significant federal action, defines the respective roles of the primary federal organizations that regulate the use of pesticides and natural enemies, explains the safeguards in granting permits for the importation and use of natural enemies, enumerates recent national policies that encourage the use of biological control and integrated pest management, and lists current United States Department of Agriculture programs for biological and chemical control of weeds. Actual environmentally friendly methods, those with minimal non-target effects, are presented in the following papers.
4033090|The following species of Orobanchaceae occur in Virginia: Conopholis americana, Epifagus virginiana, Orobanche uniflora, O. ludoviciana, and O. minor. Orobanche ludoviciana, known from only three collections, has previously been unrecorded for the state and is probably now extinct in Virginia. Orobanche minor, an European weed, has occasionally been introduced and is the only member of the genus that attacks plants of agronomic importance. Description of each species with notes on parasitism, distribution, and floral biology are included.
4034296| Fire effects on structure, composition, and species diversity in canopy, shrub/sapling, and ground-cover strata were examined following three burns over an eight-year period in a small (6 ha), isolated flatwoods remnant in south-central Illinois. Prior to fire treatments, size-class distribution patterns for trees indicated two species groups, one comprised of oaks dominating the larger size classes, particularly Quercus stellata, and a second group of non-oak species mostly from the small-to-medium size classes. Ground cover was sparse, comprised mostly of tree seedlings and woody vines, and shade-intolerant herbaceous species were absent. Following three burns, total tree density (stems  6 cm) declined 26% from 465/ha; however, basal area increased from 24.7 m
4033746|The Monkey-face Orchid, Platanthera integrilabia, was locally common on the Cumberland Plateau of Kentucky and Tennessee prior to the 1940s, but is currently a C2 candidate for United States protection as an endangered species. Insect pollination of this orchid is described for the first time at the largest remaining population of the species, located in McMinn County, Tennessee, just prior to peak flowering (12-15 August 1992). Despite the orchid having flowers adapted to sphingid moth pollination, three day-flying Lepidoptera (Epargyreus clarus, Papilio glaucus, and P. troilus) carried pollinia on compound eyes and were pollinators. Over half of all flowers (624 of 1,096 or 56.9%) set fruit two months after flowering. A mean of 4.7 capsules per inflorescence and 3,433 seeds per capsule was recorded. The survival of P. integrilabia will likely depend on the continued existence of the McMinn County population as a seed source for a vigorous program to reestablish seedlings in suitable habitats.
4032336|Sampling of a mature mesic north-slope forest in East Tennessee yielded detailed data on the composition of the canopy, subcanopy, and shrub synusia. In addition, above-ground standing crop biomass was estimated for the canopy layer, and dominance among canopy species was assessed by means of biomass compensated importance values. Several factors indicated that the stand was of greater maturity than other stands recently studied in the area. In concurrence with other recent work, black oak (Quercus velutina Lam.) was found to be the major oak in what is probably becoming an oak-dominated association in the absence of American chestnut (Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh.).
41819475|Logging has recently been used as a restoration tool in Florida scrub, a pyrogenic shrubland ecosystem that often develops a pine canopy in the absence of fire. We studied the effects of logging and fire, alone and in combination, on fire-suppressed Florida scrub on the Lake Wales Ridge in south-central Florida. Restoration goals were both structural (reduce pine canopy, hardwood subcanopy, shrub stem density; increase bare sand) and compositional (increase rare plant occupancy and forb diversity). In 2-and 5-yr posttreatment surveys, all treatments significantly reduced pine density and the hardwood subcanopy relative to the control, but no treatment was successful in reducing shrub stem densities. Burning alone exposed sandy substrate for forb recruitment, but the logging treatments created significantly larger areas of bare sand. Treatments had little effect on species richness and rare species abundance, but two rare species recruited into logged plots. The weak treatment effects on forbs likely reflect the long period of fire suppression, a pattern seen in other studies. All treatments, especially logging, increased graminoid occupancy; although the log-and-burn treatment initially increased forb occupancy, the effect was short-lived. The most significant effects of logging were large-scale soil disturbance and increased graminoid abundance. Overall, both fire and logging achieved most short-term (2-4 yr) management goals. However, the large-scale soil disturbance caused by logging may facilitate invasion of exotics and ruderals and limit the effectiveness of prescribed burning. We conclude that fire continues to be the best practice for restoration of Florida scrub.
4032667|Ailanthus altissima, Lonicera japonica, Polygonum cuspidatum, Pueraria lobata and Rosa multiflora are eastern Asian plants, introduced into the United States as ornamentals during the past 200 years. Lonicera japonica and Pueraria lobata are already recognized as serious noxious weeds. Ailanthus altissima is a local nuisance, and Polygonum cuspidatum and Rosa multiflora are potential problems. Ailanthus altissima is established in 48 counties in North Carolina, Lonicera japonica in 97, Polygonum cuspidatum in 27, Pueraria lobata in 62, and Rosa multiflora in 57.
4032812|An increased depth of fly ash from coal-burning locomotives substantially reduced the height growth of white and black oaks, red maple, and yellow-poplar. The ash was deepest on the lower slope near the railroad, and the site quality poorest. Ascending the slope, ash depth diminished, but site quality increased, a reversal of the normal trend on slopes. Annual radial increment showed a strong inverse relationship to coal tonnage hauled past the area, an indirect measure of pollution.
4033444|Two localities in West Virginia (Pike Knob on North Fork Mountain in Pendleton County and Helmick Rock on South Branch Mountain in Hardy County) with indigenous populations of red pine (Pinus resinosa Aiton) were sampled during the 1984 field season to obtain quantitative data on composition and structure of all strata of vegetation. Data were obtained on soil physical and chemical characteristics at the two sites as well. Red pine (IV = 97.3) occurs in a nearly pure stand at Pike Knob, but the species is less important (IV = 68.7) at Helmick Rock, where dominance is shared with ten other species of trees. These stands occupy sites that are ecologically similar to those on which red pine-dominated stands are found in the northeastern United States, although they occur at higher elevations (945 m at Helmick Rock and 1,290 m at Pike Knob).
4033048|The quadrat method was used to sample arborescent vegetation in southern Delaware, where conditions are suitable for the establishment and growth of bald cypress, Taxodium distichum (L.) Richard. Taxodium is dominant in Trussum and Trap Ponds and is associated with Acer rubrum, Nyssa biflora, and Ilex opaca on the banks of James Branch and its tributaries. Logging, severe fire, and the conversion of forests to farmland have removed most bald cypress from southern Delaware, the northern-most limit of the species.
4032892|Closed dunes vegetation was sampled on five islands and one mainland area in coastal South Carolina using both transect and quadrat methods. An analysis of this vegetation indicates that Waiters Island, consisting almost entirely of a thick shrub-vine zone dominated by Myrica cerifera, Baccharis halimifolia, and Rhus radicans, shows the earliest seres of closed dunes vegetation. Debidue Island shows somewhat later stages, and Bulls and Kiawah Islands provide examples of the final changes toward the climax situation. The northernmost section of Bulls Island, consisting of open forest dominated by Sabal palmetto, Quercus virginiana, and Q. laurifolia in the overstory and Sabal minor, Q. virginiana, and Ilex vomitoria in the understory, exhibits the most mature closed dunes vegetation remaining in South Carolina. Daufuskie Island and Waiters Mainland both have low vegetational homogeneity and do not fall into the above successional pattern. These areas are transitional between truly maritime closed dunes areas and the southeastern oak-hickory association.
4034021|Thirteen populations of Erythronium mesochoreum Knerr, ranging from 15 to 3,940 individuals, were studied in nine northwestern and central Illinois counties. A species of tall-grass prairies and open oak woodlands throughout its midwestern range, it is present in open oak woodlands and forest-prairie borders characterized by acidic, silt loam soils in Illinois, where it was first reported in 1983. Many populations are threatened by mowing, woody invasion, railroad maintenance, or competition with exotic species, causing several colonies to be in danger of extirpation. Field investigations during the spring of 1998 resulted in the discovery of numerous additional populations on dry oak-hickory ridge tops in southwestern Macoupin County, suggesting the potential for other colonies near other known locations in Illinois.
4033795|Following three naturally ignited fires in the summer of 1986 on Cumberland Island National Seashore, Georgia, mature live oaks (Quercus virginiana), laurel oaks (Q. laurifolia), and red bays (Persea borbonia), were tagged to determine post burn survivorship. Amount of crown scorch evident after the fire was the best predictor of the condition of Quercus spp., while the degree of basal scorch was the best predictor of the condition of red bay 21 months later. Oak mortality was low. Although oaks which had completely scorched crowns usually did not survive (80% mortality), mortality for trees with 1 to 15% of their leaves surviving the fire was 43%. Of oaks with greater than 15% of their crown alive post burn, ten of 291 died and only six of these (2%) are likely to have been killed by fire induced damage. The results indicate that prescribed natural fire would probably cause little excess hardwood mortality and little change in forest structure if utilized as a management strategy for the Cumberland Island wilderness.
4032867|Presquile is an island in the James River managed as a wildlife refuge by the United States Department of the Interior. Field collection and identification of the woody flora of the island revealed 98 species distributed among 42 plant families. An annotated list of species is provided, and county records are noted. Geographic affinities with regional floras are given attention. The biological significance of Presquile woody plant communities is considered.
4033677|Polygonum perfoliatum L. (Polygonaceae) or mile-a-minute weed, from eastern Asia, has been spreading through wild and disturbed areas of the mid-Atlantic United States. It has a wide ecological amplitude and is found on stream banks, moist thickets, roadsides, nurseries, wood-piles, clearings, and ditches. Polygonum perfoliatum presents serious problems for reforestation because it thrives where forests are clear-cut. A southward direction of spread indicates that the species will probably proliferate in at least some southern states. Mechanical control is not likely to be completely effective because seeds are often left behind. No appropriate biocontrols are known. The plant poses a threat to natural and restored ecosystems because of its capacity to grow rapidly and overgrow other species. It is expected to cover large areas unless it is controlled.
4032757|The submerged vegetation of Lake Pontchartrain, in southeast Louisiana, was surveyed before and after the April 1973 opening of the Bonnet Carre' Spillway. Abundant species were Vallisneria americana Michaux., Ruppia maritima L., and Najas guadalupensis (Sprengel) Magnus. Potamogeton perfoliatus L. was recorded only near Point aux Herbes and Zannichellia palustris L. only in North Pass. Floating and nonrooted submerged species were noted throughout the lake but were not recorded at each survey area. The study revealed approximately 2,000 acres of waterbottom covered with submerged vegetation, the greater portion of which was recorded between Green Point near Mandeville, and Big Point near Slidell, along the northeastern shoreline of the lake. In general, similar abundance values were recorded in both surveys for submerged vegetation along the northeast shoreline. The release of fresh river water did not have observable effects on the submerged vegetation.
4034170|Recent collections document a state record for this rare, endemic species, bringing the known range of this taxon to 12 counties in four states (West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, and Tennessee). Habitat affinities and identification clues are provided, along with a county map of the species range.
4033407|Investigation of archival materials, interviews, and field survey for charcoal and fire scars indicates pine and oak scrub communities and fresh water wetlands on Cumberland Island National Seashore have burned multiple times since 1900. Fire rotations are 20 to 30 years and correlate to coastal drought cycles. Lightning is an important source of ignition indicating succession from scrub communities to forest may be inhibited by frequent natural fires.
4034336|We examined vegetation-environment relationships among woody species in four canopy-strata within an old-growth mixed mesophytic forest. We hypothesized that 1) the most important environmental variables determining vegetation composition would differ among canopy-layers and 2) the maximum abundance of Quercus spp. would occur under different environmental conditions than those of Acer spp. Overstory and mid-story vegetation were arrayed along gradients of soil fertility and elevation. The shrub-layer and the ground-layer were most strongly correlated with soil fertility and pH. Across strata, Quercus spp. were consistently located in ordination space on well-lit upper slopes with low soil pH. Acer rubrum was found across a wide array of environmental conditions and Acer saccharum was found in mesic areas.
4033881|Table mountain pine (Pinus pungens Lamb.) communities of the southern Appalachian Mountains have been maintained historically by lightning- and human-caused fires. Characteristic stands have a table mountain pine overstory, a chestnut oak (Quercus prinus L.), scarlet oak (Q. coccinea Muenchh.) and black-gum (Nyssa sylvatica Marshall) understory, and a mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia L.) shrub layer. Following more than sixty years of fire suppression, most stands have increased densities of oaks and mountain laurel as well as fire-intolerant species such as red maple (Acer rubrum L.) and white pine (P. strobus L.). Previous research suggests that restoration of these communities can only be accomplished with high intensity fires that open the forest canopy and expose mineral soil. Opportunities to conduct such burns, however, are limited under current prescribed burning guidelines. Two recent studies examined community response to prescribed burning. Fires of low and medium-low intensity gave rise to abundant regeneration but may not have killed enough of the overstory to prevent shading. High-intensity fires killed almost all overstory trees but may have destroyed some of the seed. Fires of medium-high intensity may have been most successful; they killed overstory trees and allowed abundant regeneration. Large numbers of these seedlings survived the first growing season as their roots penetrated duff to reach mineral soil. Hardwood rootstocks resprouted after all fire intensities and may out-compete pine seedlings for available resources. Fires of lower intensity than previously recommended may best provide conditions for table mountain pine regeneration but additional research is needed. Prescriptions calling for lower intensity fires may widen the burning window defined by current guidelines.
4033269|Tradescantia longipes Anderson & Woodson is reported from Montgomery County, Arkansas, thus confirming its occurrence in the southeastern United States. Previous records are considered uncertain or erroneous. This species is found to differ consistently in leaf and bract pubescence from the closely related T. hirsuticaulis Small. Three subacaulescent specimens from Arkansas and South Carolina closely resembling T. longipes are concluded to belong to T. hirsuticaulis, which has not been previously recorded with a subacaulescent habitat.
4033242|The Hanging Rock area of northwestern North Carolina is underlain by three rock types: metabasalt, arkose, and siltstone. Soils developing from metabasalt are fine-textured, moist, and rich in nutrients; northern hardwoods and northern red oak forests predominate. Arkose weathers into a coarse-textured soil that is often dry and poor in nutrients. It supports mostly pine-oak/heath and modified northern hardwoods forests. Soils over siltstone are intermediate in texture and nutrient content. Slopes with northerly aspects support northern hardwoods and cove hardwoods forests, whereas southerly slopes support pine-oak/heath forests. Included in the flora of 355 species are 21 species new to Avery County and 27 new to Watauga County.
4033195|This study considers the taxonomy of the genus Aster in Virginia. A taxonomic key for thirty-nine species is proposed. Distribution maps and morphological descriptions are included for each species.
4034351|Stewartia is a genus of approximately 26 species which are frequently divided into two subgenera or genera based on the leaf duration. All evergreen species (= Hartia) are found in the Old World. The deciduous species (= Stewartia sensu stricto) are dominant in the Old World but there are two representatives in the southeastern United States, Stewartia ovata and S. malacodendron. Maximum parsimony and likelihood data analyses of molecular DNA sequence data from both the nuclear and chloroplast genomes produce similar estimates of phylogeny for the group. All evergreen species sampled are more closely related to each other than to any of the deciduous species. The two New World deciduous species are more closely related to the evergreen species than to the Old World deciduous species. These findings complicate earlier vicariance biogeography hypotheses for the genus and challenge the recognition of Hartia, the latter of which disagrees with many published classification systems.
4033317|The Duke Forest (Durham and Orange counties, North Carolina), managed by Duke University's School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, contains a diversity of forested and nonforested habitats. Vascular plants were collected from 1986 to 1989, and the Duke University Herbarium was searched, in order to obtain a vouchered flora of the Duke Forest. The flora consists of 978 species, including 169 exotics. Eighty-four species are additions to the Durham or Orange County floras, as recorded by Radford et al.
4033042|Five glacial drift hill prairies, located in east-central Illinois, were surveyed to determine the density and relative values of their herbaceous vascular component. All of the prairies are dominated by various grasses, with Sorghastrum nutans (L.) Nash. and Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash. being the most abundant. Common forbs include Euphorbia corollata L., Lespedeza virginica (L.) Britt., Lithospermum canescens (Michx.) Lehm., Monarda bradburiana Beck., Silphium terebinthinaceum Jacq., Solidago nemoralis Ait., and Thaspium barbinode (Michx.) Nutt.
20433894|A lectotype for Viola allegheniensis L.K. Henry (Violaceae), an illegitimate homonym replaced by V. appalachiensis L.K. Henry, is designated from three syntypes. The combination, V. walteri var. appalachiensis, is validated. The taxonomic distinctiveness, nomenclatural history, and conservation history of the taxon are summarized.
4034348|A survey of the vascular flora of Coffee County, Alabama was conducted from June 1999 through April 2001. Coffee County includes 173,235 ha and is located in the southeastern section of the state, entirely within the Coastal Plain Province. To increase the diversity of taxa collected, an attempt was made to sample all major habitats within the county. Also, a search of pertinent literature was conducted, and the herbaria of Troy State University (TROY), Auburn University (AUA), and The University of Alabama (UNA) were searched for taxa not collected during this study. A total of 797 taxa, representing 460 genera and 147 families, were reported for Coffee County. Asteraceae was the largest family with 96 species, followed by Poaceae with 70 species and Fabaceae with 61 species. Quercus was the largest genus with 16 species, followed by Rhynchospora with 10 species. Twelve of the species documented here are globally or state ranked for rarity of occurrence.
4033675|A native of eastern Asia, in the same latitudes as the southeastern United States, the Tallow-tree (or popcorn-tree) has long been a popular landscaping choice in this region, for its brilliant fall color, distinctive seed capsules, and easy care as an ornamental. It is shade-, sun-, drought-, flood-, freeze, and salt-tolerant, as shown in recent experiments. These and other characters, such as its adaptability to a wide range of soils and its ease of dispersal via birds, water, and humans, suggest that this introduced species has a high risk potential as an invasive plant outside of cultivation. Surveys conducted by Florida's Department of Environmental Protection demonstrate the increased spread of Tallow into disturbed and undisturbed, upland and wetland sites, with one large wetland site south of Gainesville, Florida having more than 10,000 Sapium trees that have become naturalized. Over half (57%) of Florida's counties now have naturalized populations of the tree. Current options for control of this hardy plant are also provided.
4033477|Population studies of Dermatocarpon miniatum (L.) Mann. from rock outcrops at Kankakee River State Park, Kankakee and Will counties, Illinois, show that this species is polymorphic for cyanide production. Of the nine populations examined, all individuals from six were 100% strongly cyanogenic while in the remaining populations 67% to 97% of the individuals were cyanogenic. Specimens of D. fluviatile (G. Web.) Th. Fr. were occasionally found to be weakly cyanogenic.
4034178|A former chestnut stand on the Cumberland Plateau of Tennessee was sampled in 1952/53, 1979, and 2000. The site was clear-cut in 1921/22, and has remained unburnt and relatively undisturbed. Chestnut stumps are present, but sprouts are not. Liriodendron tulipifera remained important in the canopy since 1952/53. Acer rubrum and A. saccharum increased in the canopy, but only A. rubrum did so in the subcanopy. Quercus rubra/velutina increased in the canopy, and decreased in the subcanopy. Shade-intolerant (Juglans nigra, Liquidambar styraciflua, Ulmus rubra, Fraxinus americana) and shade-tolerant (Tilia americana, Aesculus flava) species declined, perhaps due to absence of large-scale disturbance needed for regeneration. Juglans cinerea and Cornus florida were impacted by fungal pathogens. Although J. cinerea was an important replacement species, no individuals are currently present. Cornus florida is present in the canopy, but not in the subcanopy. Lindera benzoin and Viburnum acerifolium increased, apparently in response to C. florida's decline.
4032306|Salvia reflexa Hornem. is reported from Tennessee for the first time. The occurrence of S. reflexa in Tennessee apparently represents a southeastward range extension for the species.
4033134|The genus Portulaca (Portulacaceae) in the Southeast is represented by seven species. An analysis of the morphological traits used as taxonomic characters is presented along with a discussion of the systematics of the seven taxa. New data on the origin of P. amilis in the Southeast are presented.
4032955|On December 15, 1980, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service presented a new Notice of Review on potentially endangered and threatened vascular plant species for the United States. Of the some 3000 species mentioned, 17 are reported for Maryland. Current information indicates that Aster depauperatus, Bidens bidentoides, Cardamine longii, Helonias bullata, Isotria medeoloides, Juncus caesariensis, Micranthemum micranthemoides, Ptilimnium fluviatile, and Schwalbea americana are likely candidates for federal protection. The orchid, I. medeoloides, has been formally proposed for listing. Current information is too limited on Aeschynomene virginica, Euphorbia purpurea, Solidago arguta var. harrissii and Trifolium virginicum to make a firm judgement as to their status. Echinacea laevigata is reported from Maryland, but this may represent an introduction. Lilium grayi, once again reported for Maryland, has been shown not to be in the State. Two shale barren species, Pseudotaenidia montana and Senecio antennariifolius, as will be demonstrated, are too common to be justifiably considered as federally endangered or threatened. Species previously reported as potentially endangered or threatened for Maryland, but now no longer considered candidate species include Alnus maritima, Bacopa stragula, Hydrastis canadensis, Lechea maritima var. virginica, Panax quinquefolium, Panicum aculeatum, Platanthera flava, P. peramoena, Prunus alleghaniensis, and Trillium pusillum var. virginianum.
4034218|Seventeen seasonal ponds in Pennsylvania containing the federally endangered northeastern bulrush, Scirpus ancistrochaetus, were sampled for water chemistry, hydrology, and plant population area. [Na], [Mg], [Ca], [NH
4033591|The Maryland County distribution of the species of Solidago (sensu stricto), based on an examination of currently extant specimens, is shown in a series of dot maps.
24619718|Shortleaf pine-oak-hickory woodlands provided the principal vegetation cover in the Tallahassee Red Hills prior to land clearing for plantation agriculture in the 19th century. Ample historical documentation and extant remnants of that community, including old-growth, support this conclusion. This woodland was maintained by surface fires and consisted principally of open stands of shortleaf pine, post oak, Spanish oak, black oak, mockernut hickory, and dogwood. The species-diverse and predominantly herbaceous ground cover was dominated by grasses, legumes, and composites. Coppice sprouting of trees and shrubs after fires was common. In the absence of fire, shortleaf pine-oak-hickory woodlands convert to oak-hickory forest with similar tree species composition and loss of herbaceous species. Within the past 130 years, nearly all stands of shortleaf pine-oak-hickory woodlands and oak-hickory forests have been extirpated or compromised beyond recognition by intrusions of offsite tree species that are typical of moist soils at less elevated landscape positions.
4033706|We sampled previously established permanent line-intercept transects (15 m length) in oak-saw palmetto scrub 6, 12, 18, 24, and 36 months after a fire and recorded cover by taxon in the 0-0.5 m and >0.5 m height layers to determine patterns of recovery. Transects were located in two stands that were seven years (six transects) and 11 years (four transects) since the last fire when burned. Shrubs and herbs recovered by sprouting with little change in species present or species richness. Regrowth of Serenoa repens after burning exceeded that of the oaks; its cover in the >0.5 m layer returned to preburn values within one year. Oak cover (>0.5 m layer) was less than preburn three years after the fire. Differences in growth rates resulted in changes in dominance of mixed oak-saw palmetto transects. We used detrended correspondence analysis ordination to examine resilience after fire. Oak-saw palmetto scrub is very resilient compared to most shrublands. All successional vectors returned toward original locations in fires at 7-11 year intervals. Patterns of recovery varied along the scrub composition gradient. Mixed oak-saw palmetto transects recovered more slowly and showed greater changes in their post-fire composition than saw palmetto-dominated transects three years after burning.
4032893|Eighteen species of deciduous trees were reported as serving as hosts of Phoradendron flavescens in Maury County. The most common host species were Ulmus americana and Carya ovata, while other species were much less commonly infested.
4032376|A small relict stand of Elliottia racemosa Muhl. was found on a north-facing outcrop of sandstone along West Fork of Deep Creek in Turner County, Georgia. Presumably this is the first report of an occurrence of this unitypic genus of Ericaceae on a rock outcrop. The rarity of this taxon and its presence in an extremely xeric habitat is of great phytogeographic interest.
40792817|William Cameron Park is a 166 ha civic park located at the confluence of the Brazos and Bosque Rivers in Waco, Texas. During the pre-settlement period (first contact 1849), an oak-red cedar forest flourished on the ridge-top. In the early settlement phase (1849-1910), villagers cleared much of the ridge-top for logging and later for grazing. During the late settlement period (1910-present-day), vegetative cover increased markedly after the dedication of Cameron Park released ridge-top pastures. This release event resulted in delayed and differential regeneration of forest cover, first in funiperus spp. and then in broadleaved species. Regeneration of deciduous species not only occurred after that of funiperus spp. but initially followed historic fence-lines. Broadleaf species moved into the interiors of former pastures only within the last few decades, first in species such as Ulmus crassifolia and Quercus sinuata and later in Fraxinus texensis. The oldest ridge-top trees were Quercus fusiformis, whose size and canopy shape indicated that early settlers frequently left them to act as shade trees within pastures. Though invasion by exotic species is a management concern, historic sources reported that exotic plants, such as Ligustrum spp. were uncommon in the early 20th century. Current successional trends indicate that invasive species and anthropogenic pressures will prevent the forest's vegetation from returning to a historic species distribution.
4032738|Five infraspecific venation pattern and color variants of Sarracenia flava L. are herein recognized, briefly described and illustrated. Hybridization among these five polymorphs has resulted in a spectral field picture which led some observers to feel that variation was almost infinite. Various observations and analyses are presented, and thus far they indicate that infraspecific variation in this species and locale seems non-adaptive, within the limits of the present studies. A broad comment on possible evolutionary relationships of these forms is made and pollination mechanisms are reviewed.
41416204|Analyses of nuclear ribosomal DNA have suggested the paraphyly of Syringa with respect to Ligustrum, a hypothesis requiring further testing from other sources of data. In addition, relationships among lineages of Syringa have not been resolved. In this study, we used DNA sequences of two nuclear and five plastid regions to better resolve phylogenetic relationships of Syringa and Ligustrum. Our results support the derivation of Ligustrum from within Syringa, thus the paraphyly of Syringa. Six series are recognized in Syringa and their relationships are: (Syringa, (Pinnatifoliae, (Ligustrae, (Ligustrina, (Pubescentes, Villosae))))). Subgenus Syringa as traditionally defined is paraphyletic, containing subgenus Ligustrina. The Syringa pubescens complex may be paraphyletic with S. pubescens more closely related to the Syringa pinetorum complex than to other species of its own complex. Our estimated times of divergence suggest that series of Syringa have diversified in the middle Miocene (9.6517.67 mya), each with unique morphology.
24619721|The objective of this study was to create a comprehensive list of the vascular plants of Shenandoah County, Virginia. Specimens were collected from the field during the 2011 growing season, from March 21 to October 27, and part of the 2012 growing season, from March 22 to May 30. Local herbaria of James Madison University (JMUH), Bridgewater College (BDWR), Eastern Mennonite University (HAVI) and Lord Fairfax Community College (LFCC) were searched for pre-existing specimens. The results of the study were compared to records of the Digital Atlas of the Virginia Flora, which currently maps the distribution of vascular plants in Virginia. The combined list based on field collections, pre-existing herbarium specimens, and the Digital Atlas comprises a total of 1,296 species in 568 genera and 142 families. Of these, 57 species are ferns and fern allies, 8 are gymnosperms, 911 are dicots, and 320 are monocots. The records represent 1,009 species native to Virginia, 271 introduced, 12 of uncertain native status, and 2 species believed to occur in both native and introduced populations. Of the 271 introduced species, 61 are considered invasive to some degree. Forty-one species are considered rare in Virginia, and one is endangered at the federal level. This survey resulted in 53 county records, 2 of which also represent state records. Voucher specimens of new field collections are housed in JMUH.
4033696|A wide variety of landtype associations (sensu Smalley 1980) occurs on the Mississippian limestone karst plain of Kentucky and Tennessee. Thus, although much of this region is in agriculture, it supports a diversity of native plant communities. These include limestone cedar glades (edaphic climax communities on nearly flat areas of limestone bedrock and shallow soil dominated by annual or perennial forbs, annual grasses, cryptogams, or some combination of these); xeric limestone prairies of anthropogenic origin dominated by native perennial grasses and/or forbs; barrens (deep-soil, culturally-derived and maintained grasslands dominated by native perennial grasses); forests of dry, mesic, and wetland sites; and aquatic vegetation of sinkhole ponds. The historical occurrence of extensive areas of grassland interspersed with stunted trees and shrubs ("barrens") on the Kentucky Karst Plain is well documented. Transeau included these Big Barrens on his original (1935) and revised (1956) maps of the Prairie Peninsula, implying that they were formed during the Hypsithermal Interval of the Holocene, and this idea generally has been accepted by plant ecologists and geographers. However, after reviewing the literature, we previously concluded that the Big Barrens came into existence as a result of burning of forests by Native Americans in pre-European settlement times, and thus should not be considered part of Transeau's Prairie Peninsula. Additional evidence from the literature, on paleovegetation, paleoclimate, and plant and animal geography, further confirms our earlier conclusion that the Big Barrens are not an outlier of the Midwestern Tallgrass Prairie.
4033848|A vegetation analysis was made of the Bee Branch Gorge Research Natural Area by Hardin and Lewis in 1977. In 1989 we repeated the vegetation analysis to determine what changes have occurred in this hemlock-beech dominated Research Natural Area. In the 1977 analysis, the two co-dominant tree species as indicated by importance percentage (IP) were Fagus grandifolia (IP=21) and Tsuga canadensis (IP=20). In the 1989 sample, Tsuga canadensis (IP=31) had a higher importance percentage than Fagus grandifolia (IP=21). However, the correlation of the IP percentages of all the trees between 1977 and 1989 was high (
4033266|Nestronia umbellula Raf., a clonal shrub in the Santalaceae, is reported for the first time in Tennessee. A general description of this unusual plant is presented, along with habitat data obtained from the new Tennessee sites.
4033372|Seasonal phytoplankton and water quality relationships were identified by discriminant analysis procedures for a 20 year old borrow pit lake. Diatoms and chlorophyceans were more abundant during the colder months of spring and winter, and cyanobacteria characteristic of summer and early fall. Low inorganic nitrogen levels, higher pH values, and warmer, more stable water conditions were coupled with cyanobacteria development. Diatom abundance was associated with lower water temperatures and increased nitrite, silica and oxygen levels.
4033267|Jeweled shooting star (Dodecatheon amethystinum Fassett) was observed at 46 sites in 9 Illinois counties in 1981, 1982 and 1983. It apparently grows only on river bluffs and ravine habitats closely associated with river bluffs. The Illinois plants comprise two populations separated by 237 kilometers. While plants were found on bluffs covered by both the Kansan and Illinoian glaciers, no plants were found on bluffs overrun by the Wisconsinan glacier. The present populations are interpreted as relicts of a former more widespread distribution along the ancient Mississippi River either during the Sangamonian interglacial stage or the Wisconsinan glacial stage. The most reliable characters for separating D. amethystinum from D. meadia in Illinois were found to be capsule wall thickness and flower color.
41819465|The primary objectives of this project were to determine which species of Crotalaria (Fabaceae) occur in Alabama and the county distribution of each species. Crotalaria, known commonly as rattlebox, is recognized as consisting of seven species in Alabama. The most common species are Crotalaria sagittalis, C. rotundifolia, and C. spectabilis. The less common species are C. purshii, C. lanceolata, C. pallida, and C. ochroleuca. In Alabama, introduced species of Crotalaria (C. lanceolata, C. ochroleuca, C. pallida, and C. spectabilis) generally have showier inflorescences and reach greater maximum heights than native species (C. purshii, C. rotundifolia, and C. sagittalis). The dichotomous key and descriptions we present are modifications from earlier authors; however, all measurements are based on morphological features of the vegetative and reproductive structures of the more than 460 specimens studied during this project. Data for the county-level distribution maps were compiled entirely from herbarium vouchers.
4034277|The revision of Apios in North America is based on morphological analysis of herbarium specimens as well as field and greenhouse observations. The genus is herein recognized as consisting of two distinct species in North America. Apios priceana was described by Robinson in 1898. Currently it is listed as threatened by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and is known from 47 populations in 22 counties in Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi and Tennessee. The other species, A. americana, widely distributed in eastern North America, was first described by Cornut in 1633 and has been regarded as consisting of six infraspecific taxa, which are not recognized in the present treatment. Demarcation is based primarily on reproductive features as vegetative characteristics, both within and between species, exhibits a significant amount of variation. In addition to the taxonomic descriptions, dichotomous keys, illustrations and distribution maps are presented for each species.
4033335| Germination of Shortia galacifolia seed was tested on collections made in 1977, 1978, 1980, and 1981. Moist seeds stored at - 15C was found to reduce seed germination in comparison to germination with no cold storage. Germination was highest for seed matured in the capsule four to six weeks. Planting in soil from a Shortia site resulted in higher germination (up to 100 percent) than in sand. Watering with a soil leachate from a Shortia site also improved germination over distilled water in a sand medium. Phenological observations of Shortia populations in Oconee and Pickens Counties in South Carolina were made for three years. The phenological phases of the species are described by calendar date. No obstacles to seed germination were observed. 
40793298|Vibumum ozarkense was recently resurrected as a distinct species after having been synonymized with the related and partially sympatric Viburnum molle for much of the latter half of the 20th century. Presently, V. ozarkense is considered to be endemic to the Interior Highlands physiographic region of western Arkansas, southern Missouri, and eastern Oklahoma. However, this research suggests that although V. ozarkense is morphologically distinct from V. molle, it cannot be distinguished from V. bracteatum, a species found more than 500 km away in southeastern Tennessee, northeastern Alabama, and northwestern Georgia. Based on morphological and phytogeographical evidence, V. ozarkense is here considered to be conspecific with V. bracteatum. An overview of the expanded taxonomic concept, distribution, ecology and rarity of V. bracteatum is provided.
4032519|A compiling of the aquatic vascular plants of Cheat Lake, with notes as to their abundance and distribution, is given. Cheat Lake is fed by Cheat River, which is becoming increasingly mine-acid polluted, and a record of the plants and some present conditions was considered important to future studies. Ten new county records and two new state records are included.
4033985| Review of historic records indicated a very low frequency of lightning ignited fires in the Chattooga River Watershed, Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina. Rates of reported natural ignition range from about five per decade for Satolah quadrangle, to less than one per decade for wetter, high elevation areas of the watershed in North Carolina. Records document an intensification of logging and severe fires within the watershed as a result of settlement, with a period of repeated severe disturbance from 1890 to 1940. Georgia land lottery records indicate the presettlement vegetation was dominated by xeric, firetolerant trees such as Quercus spp., Pinus spp., and Castanea dentata (87% total) while mesic species such as Liriodendron tulipifera were rare. Transects, 10  100 m, determined gap disturbance in old growth ranged from 0.8% to 2.9% per year. Increment cores indicated xeric, fire tolerant trees, including Quercus spp. and Pinus spp., were far more prevalent in age classes greater than 60 years, while mesic species such as Acer rubrum, were more common among stems less than 60 years old. The field sampling and historic records suggest Native American burning maintained fire-tolerant vegetation prior to settlement. Since the early 20th century, U.S. Forest Service management has greatly reduced the impacts of fire and more mesic canopy species are becoming increasingly dominant throughout the Chattooga River Watershed. 
4033525|A study of the occurrence and distribution of cellular slime molds (CSM) in soils of southern Appalachian spruce-fir forests was carried out during the 1985 field season. Samples for CSM isolation were collected from four different study sites: (1) Blister Run in central West Virginia, (2) Mount Rogers in southwestern Virginia, (3) Mount Mitchell in western North Carolina, and (4) Mount Collins in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park of western North Carolina. Eight different species of cellular slime molds were isolated, but only two of these (Polysphondylium violaceum and Dictyostelium discoideum) were recovered from all four sites. Absolute density of the recovered CSM microflora was highest for Mount Mitchell, where soil samples were collected from an area near the summit characterized by almost complete mortality of the tree stratum.
4033080|Recent botanizing in the Elliott Knob area of Great North Mountain of Augusta County, Virginia, has added a second population of Trillium pusillum Michx. var. monticulum Bodkin & Reveal. This discovery adds another location for this rare montane trillium in western Virginia and extends the range southward into another county.
4033077|Erythronium mesochoreum is reported from a railroad prairie remnant in Macoupin County, Illinois. The significance of this discovery is discussed, a table is included to distinguish the three species of Erythronium found in Illinois, and a list of species is provided for the prairie.
4032339|Five frontal flat forests totaling 23.1 acres and averaging 185 trees per acre and two frontal slough forests totaling 7.4 acres and averaging 134 trees per acre were surveyed. Of the 13 woody species recorded in the frontal flat forests, Acer saccharinum and Populus deltoides were the most important followed by Fraxinus lanceolata, Acer negundo, Ulmus americana, and Salix nigra. Of the 9 woody species recorded in the frontal slough forest, Acer saccharinum and Fraxinus lanceolata were the most important followed by Populus deltoides, Quercus bicolor, Carya illinoensis, and Betula nigra. The results of a seedling and sapling study suggest a slow progression from the pioneer species such as Salix nigra and Populus deltoides to the more shade tolerant Acer saccharinum.
4033662|A list of vascular plant taxa from Baxter County, Arkansas is reported. It is based upon field, herbarium, and literature surveys conducted from 1987 through 1992. One thousand sixty-nine vascular plant taxa are listed, including five new state records. Thus, Baxter County is now floristically the fourth richest county known in Arkansas. Ecological data are given for each taxon, and historical, physiographical, climatic, and ecological data on Baxter County are presented.
4034031|The fern, Botrychium lunarioides, has been considered not only one of Alabama's rarest ferns, but also one of the Southeast's. We report the current distribution and 13 new county records of this fern in Alabama. It is now apparent that B. lunarioides is more common in Alabama than previously thought.
4032356|A discussion of migration routes, relative ages, and ecology of 50 Virginia species with disjunct populations in the Middle West.
4034102|Phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) foliar resorption during senescence was examined in Cardamine concatenata (a spring ephemeral), Trillium flexipes (a spring herb), and Smilacina racemosa (a summer herb) along contiguous forest topographic gradients in southwestern Ohio. Overall, mean apparent (and proportional) foliar P resorption ranged from -0.13 mg/g (-8.3%) for S. racemosa to 1.79 mg/g (68.1%) for C. concatenata. Mean apparent foliar N resorption ranged from 11.25 mg/g in S. racemosa to 37.71 mg/g in C. concatenata, while mean proportional N resorption ranged from 23.3% in T. flexipes to 62.4% in C. concatenata. Analysis of variance indicated significant differences among species and topographic positions for both P and N resorption. The significant topographic position effect for P resorption reflected greater overall resorption in the bottomland positions while that for N resorption reflected greatest resorption in uplands and bottomlands and lower resorption in slope positions. We suggest that the significant differences among species may reflect their phenological patterns and photosynthetic adaptations while differences among topographic positions primarily reflect soil nutrient availability and moisture status.
20433876|A surge in the collection of exotic Marsilea, M. mutica, M. minuta and M. hirsuta in the southeastern United States has prompted the need for updated identification aids. This study provides an annotated key to all water-clover ferns occurring in the region. It describes and illustrates recently documented exotic species and a previously misidentified western introduction. It details the rediscovery of M. ancylopoda, presumed extinct, and confirms its identification as the western species M. oligospora. Finally it clarifies the status and distribution of two additional western North American species introduced to the southeast, M. vestita and M. macropoda.
41819460|In the southern Appalachians, Rhododendron maximum L. (Ericaceae) is a key evergreen understory species, often forming a subcanopy in forest stands. Little is known about the significance of R. maximum cover in relation to other forest structural variables. Only recently have studies used Global Positioning System (GPS) technology as a field-based method to map the perimeter of shrub patches as a means of estimating canopy cover. We assessed the viability of using GPS technology to accurately measure R. maximum canopy cover in mountainous terrain; and we compared canopy cover to other R. maximum abundance variables, forest structural attributes, and environmental factors. We selected forty 20  40 m permanent plots at Coweeta Hydrologie Laboratory in western North Carolina to employ a variety of methods (visual estimates, GPS, and x-y coordinate measurements) to estimate canopy cover of R. maximum within each plot. We found a positive relationship between the GPS method and the more accurate x-y coordinate measurements (r = 0.967, p < 0.001). We compared the GPS-derived estimates to other measures of R. maximum abundance and found positive relationships between cover and density (r = 0.800, p < 0.001), basal area (r = 0.747, p < 0.001), total biomass (r = 0.761, p < 0.001), and leaf area index (r = 0.761, p < 0.001). The GPS method is a reliable field-based technology to estimate evergreen canopy cover and it could be used to estimate more difficult to measure parameters of R. maximum, given the significant relationships found in this study.
4033932| A Late Pleistocene/Holocene sediment core from St. Catherines Island, Georgia (3137N latitude, 8109W longitude), was found to contain dense peat at a depth of 5.02-5.12 meters. The peat was radiocarbon dated (AMS) at 47,620  2,500 years BP, and contains a palynoflora consisting of 85% monolete pteridophyte spores. No perispores were recovered, so unequivocal identification of the spores based on surface morphological characteristics is impossible. The associated palynoflora of the peat (taxa such as Chenopodiaceae-Amaranthaceae, Asteraceae, and Liquidambar) was used to infer the habitat and environmental conditions which were present at the depositional site; these inferred conditions were used in combination with comparisons of mean spore size to modern fern taxa (e.g., Woodwardia, Thelypteris, Dryopteris) in order to identify the probable producer of the fossil spores. The data indicate that the most likely candidate for the pteridophyte is Woodwardia virginica. Paleoecological reconstructions suggest the presence of a dense stand of ferns growing alongside characteristically southeastern floral elements. The long-term stability of southeastern coastal plant communities is supported by this pteridophyte-dominated assemblage. 
4033868|Keys and descriptions are presented for the 27 genera and 76 species of Ericaceae (including Empetraceae, Monotropaceae, Pyrolaceae, Vacciniaceae) in the southeastern United States. The largest genera include: Rhododendron (16 spp.), Vaccinium (11 spp.), Gaylussacia (8 spp.) and Lyonia (5 spp.).
4034281|We undertook a floristic study of Highland Heights Community Park and undeveloped adjacent property, Cuyahoga County, Ohio, locating 403 taxa of vascular plants belonging to 249 genera and 87 families. The study site is a large suburban park containing a mixture of wetland and non-wetland communities. A wet meadow within the site supports a diverse flora and is currently the only known locality in Ohio for Solidago puberula. Also this meadow represents the sole location in Cuyahoga County for Rhynchospora capitellata and Hypericum gentianoides.
4032488|Understory white pine seedlings respond rapidly to release after a single-tree selection cutting. Height increment the year of release is the best indication of future growth response. Age at time of cutting had a latent effect on accumulative height response which was not significant until three years following release.
4033119|A floristic study of Shiloh National Military Park from April, 1980, to April, 1981, documented the presence of 163 woody plant taxa. Floristic affinities revealed 72 eastern taxa, 64 southern taxa, 9 central taxa, and 18 naturalized taxa. Plant communities are discussed, and the habitats, relative abundances, and geographic affinities are given for each taxon.
4032649|A listing of the native plants in the 128-square-mile area of Shavers Fork of Cheat River in central West Virginia, reveals 20 species to be circumpolar in distribution, 25 species to be native to Asia or Japan, and 96 additional genera native to Asia. The balance of 15 genera are North America or tropical in distribution. There are 147 native genera represented here with 90% of these being also indigenous to Asia. Reasons for vegetational differences are explored.
4034292|A new occurrence of the federally endangered species Solidago shortii (Short's goldenrod), consisting of approximately 190 genets, was discovered in 2001 during an inventory of riparian habitats bordering the Blue River in Harrison County, Indiana. The natural community type of the site in which Solidago shortii occurs is classified as brush prairie gravel wash. In addition to S. shortii, the site includes other Indiana rare species, namely Baptisia australis, Ceanothus herbaceus, Phlox bifida ssp. stellaria, and Vitis rupestris. A total of 125 vascular plant species were found at the site, with the dominant species being Andropogon gerardii.
4032740|Listera australis Lindl. is reported from Kentucky for the first time. Notes on habitat, distribution, and flowering times of L. australis in Kentucky and Tennessee are presented.
4034278|Wells Savannah is a unique wet pine savanna located in the Lower Coastal Plain of North Carolina. It consists of two utility rights-of-way and a fire-suppressed pond pine (Pinus serotina) woodland. The objectives of this study of Wells Savannah were to characterize its soils, inventory its vascular flora, and compare its soils and flora with those of reference sites. Soil drainage, texture, and redoximorphic features were described at all locations. Wetland indices were calculated to represent the degree to which the plant communities were adapted to wet substrates. We identified 209 species in 107 genera and 48 families at Wells Savannah. Eight community associations were recognized. Wetland indices for Wells Savannah were significantly lower than those for the reference savannas. The unique combination of fine textured, very wet soil and plant species composition present at Wells Savannah has not been identified in previous studies of savannas in the region.
4032408|Forty-three state records are reported from Tennessee, 15 of which are new to the Great Smoky Mountains. The ranges of nine northern species are extended to the Southern Appalachian Region. Literature concerning lichenology in Tennessee is summarized.
23274395|Soil parameters were compared between serpentine oak savanna and grassland in Soldiers Delight Natural Environment Area, Maryland. Soils were analyzed for texture, depth to bedrock, bulk density, magnesium (Mg), calcium (Ca), aluminum (Al), nickel (Ni), potassium (K), iron (Fe), phosphorous (P), and acidity or alkalinity (pH). Oak savanna occurred on silt loam (61% silt) and grassland on sandy loam (64% sand). Silt loam had significantly greater depth (mean depth > 900 mm) than sandy loam (mean depth < 100 mm) and 50% higher fine soil bulk density. Rock fragment content was high in sandy loam (0.46 kg kg 1 , 0.20 m 3 m 3 ) and very low in silt loam (0.01 kg kg 1 , 0.01 m 3 m 3 ). The Mg:Ca ratio was not significantly different between soil types, pH was high for both soils (5.8 to 6.7), and bioavailability of Ni was probably not important ecologically. Based on the results of this study, soil physical properties contribute to vegetation differences between these soil types and not soil chemistry. Very shallow soil depth and high rock fragment content probably inhibit woody species establishment and development on sandy loam. However, based on the historical literature, woody plants may become established on sandy loam not excessively shallow for root system development.
4033102|An account is given of the collection of Quercus oglethorpensis from the time of the species discovery in 1940 by Wilbur H. Duncan to the initiation of this study. Forty of the 45 previously known stations were relocated during the course of this study and 100 new stations were found, for an increase of 250 percent. The greatest impact on the distribution of the species was agricultural development prior to its discovery.
4034255|The vascular flora of Fall Creek Falls State Park (FCFSP), Van Buren and Bledsoe Counties, Tennessee, was documented during the 2001-2002 growing seasons. This site encompasses ca. 8,900 ha on the western escarpment of the Cumberland Plateau. The majority of the park lies on the upper surface of the plateau with the rest located in numerous rugged gorges that dissect the plateau surface. Numerous plant communities and unique microhabitats occur on the upper plateau surface, in the deep gorges, and along the many streams that fuel the waterfalls for which the park is named. A total of 2,224 accession numbers and 47 previous collections from the site housed at TENN and VDB yielded 131 families, 445 genera, and 879 species. The non-native flora consisted of 110 species or 12.5% of the total flora. Sixteen species with either a state or federal listing were encountered or documented during this study with the most notable ones being: Spiraea virginiana, Thuja occidentalis, Nestronia umbellula, Pilularia americana, Hydrocotyle americana, and Berberis canadensis. Voucher specimens were deposited in the Herbarium of The University of Tennessee, Knoxville (TENN).
4032648|Studies of four different-aged oldfield communities substantiated general development patterns of succession in these forest dominated regions along the East Fork of the Whitewater River in southeastern Indiana. The first year following abandonment these fields are characterized by annual and biennial forbs, chiefly Erigeron canadensis, E. annuus, and Setaria glauca. Perennials such as Aster ericoides and Solidago canadensis begin to replace the annual life form during the second year and dominate these communities by the third year. Community structures of the various seral stages and alterations between stages were determined by computation of biomass, frequency, and their combined result, the importance percentage. We have found no previous studies in reference to bottomland oldfield succession in this general geographic region.
4032851|While making collections on the Cumberland Plateau of Alabama, many distributional records were produced; twenty-eight of the more noteworthy collections are presented with some observations on each.
4033284|The vegetational dynamics of Parramore Island, Virginia, include a hydric succession progressing on the bay side due to continuing accretion, with ocean side erosion and accompanying salt spray killing the strand forest that is dominated by loblolly pine and black cherry. On the ridge system known as Italian Hills, loblolly pine is cyclically replacing itself apparently due to edaphic factors. Sampling and the boring of selected trees provided clues to vegetational development.
24619720|From 2004 to 2012 a study of the flora and floral communities at Cabin Creek Raised Bog (Cabin Creek) was conducted. Cabin Creek, designated a National Natural Landmark by the National Park Service in December, 1974, is privately owned. It is located in west-central Randolph County, Indiana. An inventory of the vascular flora revealed 478 taxa representing 282 genera and 91 families. The 12 families containing approximately 62% of the documented species (in order by number of species) were Asteraceae, Cyperaceae, Poaceae, Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Lamiaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Apiaceae, Fabaceae, Ranunculaceae, Brassicaceae, and Polygonaceae. Of the 478 documented species, 400 were native, 78 were exotics, and 118 represented new Randolph County records. There were three species with Indiana Rare-Threatened-Endangered status, including Veratrum virginicum (endangered), Triantha glutinosa (rare), and Melica nitens (threatened). A physiognomic analysis (i.e., summary of plant form or habit) is presented. The floristic quality index (FQI) for native species is 85.6 (78.3 for all species) and the mean coefficient of conservatism (mean C) for native species is 4.3 (3.6 for all species). These numbers clearly signify the "paramount importance" of the floral natural heritage of the approximately 7 ha Cabin Creek site and indicate that it is among the highest floristic quality sites in the state. The flora occurring in the major community types (wetland border/marshes, sedge meadowcalcareous fen complex, moist prairie, mesic to dry woodland, moist woodland and hardwood swamp) is described.
4033253|The substrate preferences of the lichens known from Maryland are listed and discussed. Substrate reversal is noted in Alectoria, Cetraria, Hypogymnia, Parmeliopsis, and Umbilicaria. Most of the species grow on deciduous trees: saxicolous species occur mainly on acidic rocks. State records are cited for 92 species.
4033590| The well-known European alternate-leaved spleenwort, Asplenium alternifolium is reported for the first time in the New World. It is the natural hybrid of A. septentrionale (L.) Hoffm. and A. trichomanes L. Solitary plants were found in two localities in Hardy County, West Virginia, associated with the parents and other spleenworts on rock outcrops. Confirmation of their hybrid nature was accomplished by morphological, cytological, and isozyme comparisons. 
4033120|Six white pine species were studied 14 years after planting in Maryland's western-most Garrett County. Pinus strobus was represented by 11 populations from Michigan, Minnesota, Maryland, South Carolina and Quebec. Their survival rates were about similar, from 68% to 94%, but heights were distinctly different, ranging from 95% to 146% of the plantation mean (= 100%). The most outstanding was a population from Ogemaw County, Michigan. Pinus monticola from Idaho showed an adequate survival (65%), but grew slower than most of the sources of P. strobus; as young trees (under 8 years), they resembled well-pruned Christmas trees. Pinus griffithii and P. peuce exhibited poor survival (< 20%); P. ayacahuite and P. lambertiana grew slowly, 70% and 47% of the plantation mean, respectively.
4032323|A total of 1,064 herbarium specimens of Cruciferae present at West Virginia University herbarium (WVA), as of January 1971, were examined. These specimens represent 29 genera, 61 species, and one variety, a list of which is included in this paper. A discussion of new information resulting from this study falls into four categories: 1) eight taxa [Iberis amara (L.) DC., Isatis tinctoria L., Capsella rubella Reut., Eruca sativa Mill., Descurainia sophia (L.) Webb, Cardamine clematitis Shuttlew., Cardamine impatiens L., and Sibara virginica (L.) Rollins] not reported for West Virginia in "Flora of West Virginia," Edition I (Strausbaugh and Core, 1953), 2) two taxa [Erucastrum gallicum (Willd.) O. E. Schulz and Descurainia pinnata var. brachycarpa (Richards.) Fern.] previously known in West Virginia from literature, but now represented by specimens at WVA, 3) one taxon [Diplotaxis muralis (L.) DC.] deleted because of a previously mis-identified specimen, and 4) new county records for some infrequently collected taxa. Phytogeographic aspects of some of the taxa are considered in the discussion.
4033555|The authors describe the general reproductive strategy of Zizaniopsis miliacea and discuss an asexual reproductive strategy in this grass. This involves utilization of the fertile culm as a site of production of up to three vegetative buds, each of which can potentially become an independent plant. Such buds are long range dispersal propagules.
20433881|A two-year floristic survey of the 7,690-ha Pushmataha Wildlife Management Area (PWMA) located in the Kiamichi Mountains of southeastern Oklahoma revealed the known vascular flora to comprise 447 species in 287 genera and 97 families. The four largest families--Poaceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae, and Cyperaceae--compose 43.4% of the flora. The largest genera are Carex, Juncus, Dichanthelium, Desmodium, and Lespedeza. Native species account for 92.8% of the taxa. Three introduced species appear to be naturalizing in the area: Elaeagnus angustifolia, Lespedeza cuneata, and Sorghum halepense. Thirteen species designated as rare by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were encountered: Dulichium arundinaceum, Justicia ovata var. lanceolata, Brachyelytrum erectum, Calamovilfa arcuata, Piptochaetium avenaceum, Smilax smallii, Ilex opaca, Ribes cynosbati, Tilia americana var. caroliniana, Polygala polygama, Carex oxylepis, Carex oklahomensis, and Mitchella repens.
23274397|Back Bay and its flora have historically been influenced by the interaction of freshwater flow in combination with frequent intrusion of saline water into its basin. These events have resulted in a dynamic environmental setting influencing the abundance and composition of its phytoplankton community. Dominating these oligohaline waters is a diverse representation and high abundance of freshwater filamentous and colonial cyanobacteria. These include the nonheterocystous Planktolyngbya contorta, Planktolyngbya limnetica, and Pseudanabaena limnetica, taxa implicated as bloom producers in Bay waters with N:P molar ratios ranging from 23:1 to 74:1.
4034193| Effects of shade, drought, and soil type on survival and growth of the two closely-related species Penstemon tenuiflorus and P. hirsutus were compared in a greenhouse study. Eighty to 100% of 15 replicate plants of P. tenuiflorus and 60% to 93% of 15 plants of P. hirsutus survived in the three light levels under which they were grown, i.e., no shade, intermediate shade, and heavy shade. Plant dry mass (root, shoot, total) decreased with increase in shading: no shade > intermediate shade  heavy shade. For a given level of shading, there were no significant differences between the two species for any of 12 plant growth variables measured. In a 30-day drought experiment during which soil moisture decreased to the permanent wilting percentage on day nine, four and three of five replicate plants of P. tenuiflorus per treatment, and four and one of those of P. hirsutus, survived the 18- and 21-day drought, respectively; no plants of either species survived the 24-, 27-, or 30-day droughts. Of the five soil types tested, plants of both species survived and grew best in greenhouse soil (high P) and worst in black shale soil (very low pH). Plants of P. hirsutus grown in greenhouse soil and in sandstone soil produced significantly more dry mass than did those of P. tenuiflorus in these soil types. Amount of growth was relatively low for plants of both P. tenuiflorus and P. hirsutus grown in native cedar glade and limestone-ledge soils (both with very low P), respectively. This study suggests that P. tenuiflorus is a bit more tolerant to drought than is P. hirsutus, whereas P. hirsutus has the ability to grow better on a greater variety of substrate types than does P. tenuiflorus. The major findings of Parts I-IV of this comparative study of the biology of P. tenuiflorus and P. hirsutus are summarized. 
41819461|Glossy buckthorn (Rhamnus frangula L. or Frangula alnus Mill.) is a tall shrub to small tree, native to Eurasia and North Africa, which can invade both wetland and upland sites in northeastern and midwestern North America. Invasion by R. frangula is often patchy in riparian savannas of the Allegheny High Plateau of northwestern Pennsylvania: Some sites are heavily invaded, whereas others nearby are sparsely invaded or not invaded at all. Because microtopography in riparian savannas can be diverse, with slightly elevated dry hummocks and wet depressions providing habitats for a range of upland and wetland plant species, we tested the hypothesis that the patchy nature of R. frangula invasion of riparian savannas is determined in part by soil drainage, which may ultimately affect shrub establishment and growth. We used depth to mottling by iron oxides as a primary, indirect measure of soil drainage and inundation and also measured the depth of leaf litter, humus, and A and B horizons in belt transects that were either heavily or sparsely to noninvaded by R. frangula at three riparian savanna study sites in the Allegheny National Forest. Sites with relatively well-drained soils, indicated by greater mottling and B horizon depths, supported significantly greater densities of R. frangula seedlings and shrubs than did sites with apparently wetter soils having shallower mottling and B horizon depths. We suggest that physiological stress associated with wet soils may restrict establishment of R. frangula, explaining in part its patchy invasion patterns in Allegheny High Plateau riparian savannas.
4032923|A bottomland hardwood forest along the Mississippi River in Tensas Parish, Louisiana was sampled before and after a prolonged backwater flood. The understory vegetation was killed or completely defoliated by 105 days of flooding. By the 43rd postflood day the understory cover was only 19% less than it was preflood. This represented a 25% reduction in cover compared to preflood. Forty-two taxa constituted 93% of the preflood cover. Six of these taxa were eliminated by the flood, and 11 taxa showed a significant reduction in postflood cover. Understory vegetation occurring naturally on the study area has the capacity to recover quickly from prolonged flooding.
4033270|Radial increment of dominant and codominant oaks increased 17 percent over that expected on a ridgetop of the Appalachian Plateau after a four-year period of campground sewage effluent spray irrigation. Data were collected from randomly selected dominant and codominant northern red oak, chestnut oak, and white oak trees. Increment cores from each tree were used to determine the annual ring width for the four-year period, and the preceding six years.
4032330|Thirty-eight taxa are reported: One is new to the southeastern United States, fourteen are reported for the Carolinas and the remainder are new for South Carolina.
4032442|Sporobolus vaginiflorus (Torr.) Wood, a summer annual native to the United States, is one of the dominant species of certain shallow-soil zones of the cedar glade plant community in Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky and Tennessee. The purpose of this paper is to report observations made on the ecology of S. vaginiflorus in cedar glades. Its ecological life cycle is as follows. Seeds germinate in late winter and early spring, vegetative growth occurs during spring and summer and flowering, seed set and seed dispersal occur in autumn. Seeds are dormant at maturity and after-ripen on the soil surface during the winter. Dead plants remain erect through the winter, but they fall to the soil surface in spring. Thus, a layer of S. vaginiflorus litter accumulates, but it is decomposed during the spring and summer, so that there is no net accumulation of litter. Germination and seedling establishment of S. vaginiflorus in late winter and early spring and drought resistance of juvenile plants appear to be its major adaptations to the xeric cedar glade habitat.
4032585|Notes on range, life span, early development, parasitic relationships, flowering, nature of the gynoecium, and seed dispersal of Epifagus virginiana (Orobanchaceae) are given; a distribution map is included.
4032543|Splachnum ampullaceum, a rare species of dung-growing moss, is recorded from Pendleton County, West Virginia, far south of its previously known range of distribution.
40792826|Woody grapevines (Vitis spp.) are common in the deciduous forests of the southeastern United States. Their growth habit makes leaf collection challenging and polymorphic leaves make identification of species difficult. Mature grapevines can grow up to 48 cm in diameter at breast height and reach the upper canopy of trees more than 35 m in height. Leaf morphology is the most readily available character used for species identification. However, most mature grapevines do not produce leaves below the upper canopy and if they do, these leaves are morphologically indistinguishable from other species. In order to sample leaves from mature grapevines, the doubled rope climbing method was used to access the canopy in Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee, Daniel Boone National Forest and Berea College Forest in Kentucky, and Ha Ha Tonka State Park in Missouri. Leaf voucher specimens were collected from the upper canopy and used to create a modified key to species for those regions. The purposes of this paper are to report a new method for collecting grapevine leaf vouchers from the upper canopy of trees, to present a modified key used for identifying dried leaf vouchers of Vitis species, and to present a discussion of the possible utility of this research for future studies.
4034187|The Trillium pusillum Michaux complex consists of five or six morphogeographical taxa distributed within the southeastern United States. A quantitative morphological study was undertaken to determine appropriate species and varietal ranks of these taxa, which have a confused taxonomic history. Numerical analyses based on 14 floral and vegetative characters measured from 29 populations of T. pusillum revealed significant differences among varieties. These exist, however, as arrays of characters rather than as single characters. All characters were highly variable within and among populations, suggesting that quantitative measurements alone are unreliable as distinguishing characters. We concluded that all of the previously recognized infraspecific taxa lack clear morphological separation. We therefore recommend recognition of a single variable species without varietal designations.
4033761|Four species of herbaceous plants (Sanguinaria canadensis L., Jeffersonia diphylla (L.) Pers., Erythronium americanum Ker, and Trillium sessile L.) commonly found in the understory of mature deciduous forests in the eastern United States were subjected to partial defoliation in the spring of 1990 at the time of flowering. Data were gathered on the reproductive responses of control and defoliated plants in 1990 and again in 1991. Partial defoliation had little effect on reproduction in any of the species in 1990, but 50% defoliation significantly reduced multiple fruiting by J. diphylla in 1991, while 67% defoliation significantly diminished three measures of reproductive performance in T. sessile. Defoliation of 50% did not influence reproduction in E. americanum in either year. Experimental defoliation (50%) did not affect reproduction in S. canadensis in 1990, but complete defoliation by deer and ground hogs eliminated reproduction in 1990 and 1991. In these four species the negative consequences of herbivory on reproduction are often delayed, and may not be significant until the level of defoliation reaches at least 50%.
4034179| This study evaluates and quantifies the variation in vegetation, plant nutrients, and microclimate across four topographic aspects in an Appalachian watershed (393943N, 794528W). The study found that the north and east aspects were 27-50% more productive than the west and southwest aspects. Species groups that showed strong aspect preference included yellow poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera), black cherry (Prunus serotina), chestnut oak (Quercus prinus), and white oak (Quercus alba); the former two being dominant on the north and east aspects while the latter two dominate the west and southwest aspects. Red oak (Quercus rubra) and red maple (Acer rubrum) showed mild aspect preference indicating their broad ecological amplitude. Although the north and east aspects had greater biomass, the west and southwest aspects had about 23% more stems per hectare. There were large differences in microclimate among the four aspects. Air temperature during midday period averaged 25.2C, 24.9C, 30.5C, and 29.4C for the north, east, west and southwest aspects respectively. The maximum temperature difference between the mesic (north and east aspects) and xeric (west and southwest aspects) sites was 5.55C and was observed at noon. The relative humidity at the xeric site was about 25% lower than that at the mesic site during midday periods. Plant water stress as measured by vapor pressure difference was about 37% higher on west and southwest aspects than on north and east aspects. Plant nutrients only showed minor differences with concentrations being higher on the north and east aspects except for phosphorus, which was higher on the west and southwest aspects. 
4033358|A survey of the vascular flora of the Barataria Basin, an interdistributary coastal basin in the Mississippi deltaic plain, contains six types of vegetative communities: bottomland hardwood forest, swamp, freshwater marsh, brackish marsh, salt marsh, and successional types of disturbed areas. The survey resulted in a vascular plant of 113 families, 313 genera, and 523 species.
27742877|Photosynthetic adaptation in terrestrial vascular plants involves a complex interaction of components that extend across a broad structural and spatial hierarchy, often functioning in concert with one another at multiple scales. Thus, understanding the evolutionary mechanisms leading to these adaptations requires evaluation across the entire spectrum of plant form from the chloroplast to the landscape. Adaptive traits across this structural/spatial hierarchy can emerge at any level and then feed-back or feed-forward to cause adaptive changes at adjacent levels. Today's sophisticated instruments enable direct measurement of photosynthesis at most of these hierarchical levels and across phylogenetic boundaries. As a result, identification of functional properties in plant form (architectural and spatial), independent of physiological processes, is becoming a reality. In this review we focus on one apparent theme across this hierarchy of organizational complexitythe impact of plant form on the distribution of incident sunlight to photosynthetic surfaces, and the transfer and processing of mass nutrients (e.g. CO2 and water). The trade-offs and net effects of these exchange processes drive photosynthetic adaptation, and appear to be related to economic efficiencies rather than simply magnitude.
4033256|Quantitative studies of 27 relatively undisturbed hardwood forests in the central Coastal Plain of Virginia reveal that Quercus alba, Fagus grandifolia, Liriodendron tulipifera, and Quercus falcata dominate most stands. Quercus alba, Q. falcata, and Liriodendron concerate in separate margins of a Bray-Curtis ordination, while Fagus lies between Q. alba and Liriodendron, and broadly overlaps both. Carya tomentosa, C. glabra, and C. cordiformis concentrate in the same area as Liriodendron, and Acer rubrum, never very important, concentrates in the same area as Quercus alba. These forests were structurally more like the Southern Mixed Hardwood Forests of the southeastern Costal Plain, where Fagus is important, than the Oak-Hickory Forests of the Virginia Piedmont, where Quercus coccinea, Q. rubra, Q. prinus, and Acer rubrum are important.
4033859|Thirty-three [17.0-58.7 cm diameter] white, southern red, and scarlet oaks of dominant or suppressed crown position on two sites were inoculated at 1.4 m above ground level with mycelia of either of two isolates of Phytophthora cinnamomi in late July, 1994. Six months later the inoculated areas were debarked and observed for canker development. Cankers formed around mycelial plugs in 100% of the trees. Mean canker length/width for all species was 43.6/4.3 cm. From these observations, it appears that these species are very susceptible to this soil-borne pathogen. However, naturally occurring cankers on oaks have not yet been reported in the United States even though P. cinnamomi is common in southern Appalachian soils where these oak species are abundant.
4032873|An investigation of vegetational zonation on a pair of two hundred foot high, north-facing bluffs adjacent to the Congaree River floodplain in central South Carolina was conducted. This zonation parallels the terraced landscape of these bluffs. A soil moisture gradient reveals a decrease in soil moisture with an increase in distance from the floodplain. One hundred species of plants, including twenty-five new county records, make up the Beech Ravine Community. An increase in slope resulted in increased erosion and soil surface evaporation as well as decreased percolation. These factors contribute to a more open canopy and a decrease in the number of herbaceous plants.
41416199|The University of Mississippi Field Station is a 300-hectare area located in the Eocene Hills of the interior coastal plain of the southeastern US. Twenty long-term monitoring plots were established in 1996 following a major ice storm. Plots were sampled for understory (vegetation less than 1.5 m height) vegetation from 1996 to 2008 to study the changes in vegetation due to natural disturbance and to study the spread of invasive species. Species richness, total percent foliar cover, total percent open space and importance values (based on frequency and cover) were determined. Results indicate that there are 345 vascular plant species belonging to 90 families at the University of Mississippi Field Station (UMFS). Poaceae was the most abundant family followed by Asteraceae and Fabaceae. Understory species richness increased from 73 in 1996 to 195 in 2008. Mean percent foliar cover decreased from 58% in 1996 to 32% in 2008. Importance values for the invasive species Microstegium vimineum and Lonicera japonica decreased in 2008. Native species such as Andropogon virginicus and Vitis rotundifolia became dominant in 2008. Thus, there was a shift in vegetation with native species becoming more prevalent and displacing invasive species.
4033138|The status of Boltonia decurrens (Torr. & Gray) Wood as a distinct species is strengthened by consideration of its lack of rhizomes as compared to B. asterioides (L.) L'Her var. recognita (T. & G.) Engelm. Boltonia decurrens reproduces asexually by basal shoots in addition to its seed production. Historically, B. decurrens has been limited to moist habitats along a 400 km stretch of the Illinois and Mississippi rivers in Illinois and Missouri. At present, seven populations are known from a 37 km reach of the middle Illinois River. All of the surviving populations are in man-disturbed habitats. The species is in danger of becoming extinct.
4033811|Effects of clear-cutting on litter dry mass, litter depth, and litter moisture were studied on two sites near Highlands, North Carolina, in the southern Blue Ridge Mountains from 1985-87 in order to better understand changes in litter parameters and to help explain disappearances of terrestrial salamanders of the genus Plethodon from clear-cuts. Litter dry mass and litter depth decreased significantly after clear-cutting on both sites while litter moisture was reduced significantly at one site but not at the other. Since terrestrial salamanders depend on a moist environment for dermal respiration and on litter as their primary foraging area, reductions in litter mass, depth and moisture may contribute to salamander disappearance from clear-cuts after timber harvest.
4032872|The genera comprising the Helenieae in Virginia, Helenium (5 species), Gaillardia (1 species), and Tagetes (1 species) are surveyed systematically. Keys to the genera and species, descriptions, flowering dates, ecological data, and Virginia distribution maps are included. A new county record for H. virginicum is reported.
4033085|Analysis of vegetation survey plots from the western end of Great Smoky Mountains National Park showed wild boar (Sus scrofa) rooting to be present at all elevations but tending to be concentrated in mesic sites, with the exception of those with Rhododendron maximum understories. Yellow pine and hemlock dominated stands were much less intensively utilized than hardwood and oak mixtures. Hogs disturbed wet areas in Cades Cove which are known habitats for rare herbs. During the poor acorn year of 1978-79, beech forests were intensively utilized in the winter. Recovery in previously hog-rooted exclosure plots was greatest in their first year. Herbaceous cover for some of the exclosure plots was within normal range within three years. Species number, however, remained less than expected.
4032544|Small spore taxa from throughout the vertical extent of Dunkard strata are listed in stratigraphic sequence. It is concluded that the occurrences of Triquitrites, the culmination of monolete spore genera, the limited appearance of bisaccate, striate pollen, and the continuing occurrence of numerous Pennsylvanian trilete spores are positive evidence for assigning a Pennsylvanian age to the Dunkard.
4033540|Cover and density of ground-layer species were measured in belt transects in three central Maine forests to (i) analyze pattern of the community and individual species, and (ii) determine if a relationship exists between tree canopy type and ground-layer species distributions. Although the ground-layer vegetation in each of the three forest stands contained about the same number of species, only three common species occurred at all sites: Maianthemum canadensis, Trientalis borealis, and seedlings of Acer rubrum. Most species were clumped, although in one stand several species were regularly distributed. Some species such as M. canadensis were clumped in one forest and regularly distributed in another. Based on an analysis of community pattern, vegetation in the understory of the two forests occupying south-facing slopes was spatially heterogeneous, whereas the ground-layer on the north facing slope appeared homogeneous. In each stand, community pattern varied due to the occurrence of species such as Viburnum alnifolium which had low frequency but high coverage values. The amount of cover of several ground-layer species was related to canopy type in two of the three forests. Patch sizes of the two common herbs M. canadensis and T. borealis were related to canopy type and possibly asexual propagation.
4034123|The Kisatchie Sandstone Hills of Louisiana include the Kisatchie Ranger District of the Kisatchie National Forest, one of the few landscapes on the Western Gulf coastal plain where significant longleaf pine communities remain. Fifty-one mature stands were sampled. Occurrences of ground flora and over-story species were recorded. Soil and physiographic descriptions were recorded and a topsoil sample was collected. Data were subjected to Two Way Indicator Species Analysis (TWINSPAN) classification and hybrid Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis-Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCCA-DCA). Ordination scores corresponded to topographic position, soil texture, and soil nutrients. Ordination and classification results were used to describe ten community types ranging from moist-mesic floodplains to upland sandstone outcrops.
4033679|Tropical soda apple (Solanum viarum Dunal), an exotic noxious weed, displaces pasture grasses and native plants resulting in significant economic and ecological losses. This perennial broadleaf weed, native to Argentina and Brazil, is 1-2 m tall at maturity, has yellowish prickles up to 20 mm long on the leaves, and the fruits are globose (2.5 cm in diameter) with the immature fruit green with white mottling (like a watermelon). Weed distribution includes Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, and South Carolina. In Florida, tropical soda apple (TSA) has been observed in pastures, citrus (Citrus spp.), sugar cane (Saccharum offinarum L.), vegetable fields, sod fields, natural areas (state parks, nature preserves, hammocks), and roadsides. Recent (1993) surveys indicate there are nearly 161,000 ha of TSA occupying improved pastures in peninsular Florida, which is an increase of 95% from 1990. In 1995, estimated TSA infested pasture was 303,000 ha. Tropical soda apple is listed on the Federal Noxious Weed List which prohibits the possession, movement, or release of TSA. Seed production averages 50,000 per plant, seed germination is high (75%), and weed dispersion occurs from wildlife and livestock that feed on the fruit and spread seed through the feces. Weed management strategies are centered around prevention, detection and control.
27742906|Arundinaria sensu stricto is a genus encompassing three species that are endemic to the Southeastern United States: A. appalachiana (hill cane), A. gigantea (river cane), and A. tecta (switch cane). The taxonomy of this group has been problematic due to a poor understanding of its phylogeny and genetic variation as well as ambiguity surrounding original protologues and designated nomenclatural type specimens. In particular, the neotype of Arundo gigantea (the basionym of Arundinaria gigantea) and the holotype of A. macrosperma (a synonym of A. gigantea) both provide insufficient morphological characters for species identification. Here we designate epitypes to assist with the correct application of the names of these taxa. A summary of diagnostic morphological features for the three species of Arundinaria and comments on their phylogenetic relationships based on recent molecular and morphological analyses are also provided.
4032608| Effects of shifted temperatures from 15C to 35C and back to 15C on percent germination of selected weed seed species were studied. Cocklebur, common ragweed and pigweed seeds showed a decrease in germination when they were exposed to 15C; giant ragweed seeds showed an increase in germination when they were exposed to 15C. Common ragweed and giant ragweed seeds showed an increase in percent germination under all treatments of shifting temperatures. One hundred percent germination in wild mustard seeds was exhibited by an exposure to 15C. Crotalaria seeds did not exhibit any difference in percent germination on exposure to shifting temperatures. 
4032474|The age designation of Dunkard strata has been a controversial subject for more than 90 years. These rocks have been designated by various authors as Pennsylvanian, Permian, transitional Permo-Carboniferous and partially Permo-Carboniferous--partially Permian. Evidence cited in substantiation of each of these claims has varied from lithological to paleontological to paleobotanical, but the preserved mega-flora as described by Fontaine and White (Rept. PP., 2nd Pa. Geol. Survey) in 1880 forms the basis for most of the age assignments. In some instances, fossilized organisms have apparently been cited as Permian because of their occurrence in Dunkard strata rather than through interpretation of the organismal characteristics. Palynological studies which contrast the flora of the Dunkard with the Virgilian, Gearyan and basal Cimarronian of the Midcontinent area indicate that the Dunkard is no younger than Virgilian which has always been classified as undoubted Pennsylvanian. In general, there seems to be no lithologic, faunal or floral basis for separating Dunkard strata from those that immediately underlie them. The available evidence seems to substantiate a strictly Pennsylvanian age for the group.
4032744|35 species in 14 families are reported for what is believed to be the first time for Kentucky. Another 10 species are reported for only the second time. These are based on collections largely made by the junior author and principally in western Kentucky in continuation or our botanical studies of the area.
4032874|Populational differences in fruit size were striking in comparing collections of Fraxinus americana and Carpinus caroliniana, with heavier fruits being from higher latitude collection sites. Indications of similar differences were also evident to a lesser degree in collections of Prunus serotina, Cornus florida and Acer rubrum. These differences may be a possible key to a measure of system productivity and warrant further investigation.
4033282|A floristic survey of Cunningham Brake, a cypress-gum swamp located in Kisatchie National Forest approximately 32 kilometers south of Natchitoches, Louisiana, was conducted from February, 1977, to June, 1978. The study area is characterized by six distinct habitats: 1) cypress-gum swamp; 2) lowland hardwoods; 3) open sand bars and edges of Kisatchie Bayou; 4) seepage areas; 5) wet, open areas; and 6) disturbed areas. The annotated list of taxa includes 81 families, 213 genera, and 313 species.
4032962|Leavenworthia exigua var. laciniata Rollins is endemic to limestone and dolomite glades in Bullitt and Jefferson Counties, Kentucky, and it is on the Smithsonian's 1978 list of recommended endangered plant species in the United States. A map of the geographical distribution of the taxon is presented, showing the locations of 22 populations in eastern Bullitt Co. and one in southern Jefferson Co. The ecological life cycle of L. exigua var. laciniata is described.
4032996|To determine the response of honeysuckle, forbs, grasses, and shrubs of a piedmont pine forest to fire, prescribed burns were conducted in April of 1978 and 1979 in an experimental forest of the Ecological Reserve at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, North Carolina. The two fires reduced coverage and crown volume of honey-suckle by 35 and 80 percent, respectively. Shrub coverage and crown volume also decreased, while grasses and forbs increased. The results indicate that mild surface fires in the spring may rapidly alter the composition of ground flora of piedmont pine stands without significantly affecting the understory and overstory tree strata.
4033248|Fifteen species of Myxomycetes are reported for West Virginia for the first time, bringing the total number of species reported to 112.
4032906|Four taxa of Helenium (Compositae) are recognized in Tennessee. Helenium brevifolium is reported as new to Tennessee, and plants of H. autumnale are recognized as belonging to var. parviflorum.
4032526|Reported for the first time from Tennessee are the following taxa: Panicum recognitum, Cenchrus incertus, Cyperus dentatus, Cyperus engelmanii, Rhynchospora filifolia, Juncus brachycephalus, Cerastium brachypetalum, Ranunculus repens, Coronopus didymus, Tribulus terrestris, Spermolepis echinata, Chaenorrhinum minus, Leucospora multifida, Aster tataricus, Dyssodia papposa, Matricaria matricarioides, Cirsium horridulum, Silybum marianum, and Leontodon leysseri; and others of interest.
4033558|Seventeen species of Myxomycetes not previously known from West Virginia are reported. Two of these, Arcyria margino-undulata and Physarum luteonodum, appear to be new records for North America.
20433900|Analyses of a palaeo-channel deposit in the valley of Big Sandy Creek in northeast Texas indicate that well preserved pollen of primary origin is encountered in high concentrations. Stratigraphic pollen data derived are employed towards a reconstruction of the history of the regional pine-hardwood forest from 3500 cal. BP until present. This bio-stratigraphic sequence demonstrates that the valley has remained almost completely under forest canopy during the Middle and Late Holocene, when it is comprised of a mixture of oak, pine, and hickory. During the past 3500 yrs, the relative importance of these taxa has also varied due to drought and fire. In this respect, a differential (riparian) representation by moisture-sensitive river birch in the pollen sequence strongly suggests that periodic droughts in the valley have caused a secular variation in fire frequency and magnitude. Finally, during the past 800 yrs (Caddo period), the first significant grasslands and forbs emerge in forest clearings. The latter emergent formations are of possible anthropogenic origin after pollen data.
4033554|Seasonally flooded bottomland hardwoods along the Middle Fork-Forked Deer River have been replaced by a shallow-water marsh as a result of blockage in a lateral drain to the river. This study compares the shallow-water marsh with a nearby seasonally flooded bottomland hardwood forest. Plant species diversity and the diversity of microhabitats have been reduced due to shallow-water impoundment during the growing season. If the obstruction to the lateral drain were removed, the shallow-water marsh area would likely be replaced by a viable hardwood stand with a seasonal flooding regime. Not only would removal of the obstruction improve flood control but also, as shown by this study, increase species diversity and enhance wildlife habitat.
4033880|Spiraea virginiana Britton is a Federally listed rhizomatous shrub endemic to the southern Blue Ridge and Appalachian Plateau physiographic provinces. Populations of S. virginiana are found restricted to scoured sections of high gradient streams within the Ohio River drainage. Present evidence indicates the species is reproducing asexually, most probably through the deposition of rhizomes from upstream populations forming new downstream ramets. Phenotypic variation was examined through a morphometric evaluation of 25 leaf measurements and analyzed using Principal Components Analysis (PCA) and Discriminant Function Analysis. Identity and structure at the molecular level were examined with Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPDs) and band patterns were used to construct a cluster analysis. Combining cluster analysis and biogeographic data identified past gene flow. Patterns of variation found within S. virginiana indicate that there is some degree of relatedness along short reaches of a single river and that within a secondary drainage basin a downstream distribution of propagules from multiple tributaries results in a mix of phenotypes. Results place the S. virginiana ancestral population in the southern part of its range suggesting a southward migration followed by recolonization northward, concordant with the work of Delcourt and Delcourt (1981, 1984). Biogeographical patterns of variation within S. virginiana identify the Cumberland Plateau as a migratory route. In addition, evidence suggests that that the deeply dissected Cumberland Plateau is the probable site of a Pleistocene refugium.
4034112|The vascular flora of a 12 ha successional prairie in Jasper County, Illinois was studied during the growing season of 1996. Abundance and flowering dates (initial, peak, and final) were determined for most of the species. Also, frequency (%), average cover, and importance value (IV = 200) of the taxa were determined using randomly located quadrats along line transects through the area. One hundred forty-four taxa were observed in the prairie, 35 monocots and 109 dicots, of which 20 were woody species and 10 introduced exotics. Andropogon gerardii (big bluestem) had the highest IV (44.97) followed by Cassia fasciculata (partridge pea), Euthamia graminifolia (grass-leaved goldenrod), Schizachyrium scoparium (little bluestem), Eleocharis intermedia (spike rush), and Solidago nemoralis (field goldenrod).
4033984|From 1987 to 1992, trees were mapped in seven old-growth stands (0.6-1.0 ha plots) and two agricultural stands (0.1-0.6 ha plots) within coves of the northeastern Great Smoky Mountains. The old-growth stands had no evidence of catastrophic disturbance. The second-growth stands developed in fields abandoned ca. 1920. Old-growth sites tended to have higher levels of stand biomass, woody debris volume, large snag density, species equitability, tree size diversity, and gap size diversity. Second-growth stands had higher levels of net primary production and tree species richness. Over several decades, marked changes were apparent in the composition, structure, and diversity of second-growth stands, but not of old-growth stands. Small-scale (<0.1 ha) patch dynamics were inferred from the small patches formed by gap disturbances and by conspecific aggregations in old-growth stands. Although these individual patches may have changed rapidly, stand-level changes were gradual in the old stands. Thus the patch dynamics concept of a shifting-mosaic steady-state seems appropriate. Whether a true steady-state has existed at any spatial scale for old-growth cove forest composition is an unresolved issue, however. Further long-term research on these forests will contribute greatly to our understanding of changes in natural deciduous forests of the temperate zone.
4033824|The flora of Hardin County comprises 1,126 species, subspecies and varieties in 494 genera and 129 families, representing roughly 40% of Kentucky's known vascular flora. Of these, 30 are considered rare, threatened, or endangered within Kentucky. About one-third of the flora is extraneous to the lower Ohio Valley and is composed of species with predominantly Appalachian, northern, southern, and Coastal Plain distributions. Twelve species appear to be endemic to or characteristic of the Interior Low Plateaus Province of Kentucky and Tennessee. This floristic diversity is a consequence of geographic location in combination with an edaphically and physiographically diverse environment.
4033139|Floristic data, keys to identification, and dot distribution maps are presented for Thaspium barbinode, T. trifoliatum, Zizia aptera, and Z. aurea. Two varieties are accepted within T. trifoliatum: var. trifoliatum known from only two collections in the state, and var. flavum which is common. Thaspium pinnatifidum, long attributed to Ohio, is excluded from the known flora; all specimens so determined proved to be misidentified forms of T. barbinode.
40983088|A survey of vascular plant species at Gooseberry Island Nature Preserve, a 5.56 ha forested island, was conducted during the 2004 growing season. This study was undertaken to document the composition and structure of the vascular flora and to provide baseline information for land management decisions. A young second growth wet floodplain forest and an old-growth mesic floodplain forest community was quantitatively sampled. The wet floodplain forest community was dominated by Acer saccharinum (silver maple) with some Salix nigra (black willow). The mesic floodplain forest was dominated by Aesculus glabra (Ohio buckeye), Acer saccharum (sugar maple), and Quercus macrocarpa (bur oak). Bur oak, a dominant species in the largest tree size classes, was only a minor element in the lower tree size classes and was absent from the shrub and sapling layers. Historical data from 1977 indicate that in the last 30 years there has been a significant increase in buckeye and sugar maple. A total of 162 species in 126 genera and 62 families were encountered, including 35 taxa near the northern limits of their range.
4032596|The Pine Mountain region of West-Central Georgia has been of interest to plant scientists since R. M. Harper called attention to the interesting admixture of Coastal Plain and Mountain species in 1903. The geology, physiography, soils, climate, and regional land-use history are discussed. Included is a floristic checklist of the vascular flora of the western portion of the region. The flora of the Pine Mountain region is rich in species; it has many species with Coastal Plain or with Appalachian affinities whose presence provides evidence of past migrations. The phytogeographical implications of the flora are compared with reference to several features of the environment, history, and biota of the area.
41416185|Forest vegetation near Tallahassee, Florida was inventoried on a former cultivated field, called NB66h, which had been abandoned 43 yr earlier. Subsequently, the site suffered no disturbance and no colonization by alien invasive species. The canopy consisted of pines (Pinus taeda, P. echinata) and hardwoods, primarily Liquidambar styraciflua, Quercus nigra. Most tree species were characteristic of plant communities that historically occurred at lower slope positions in the landscape and not of presettlement upland shortleaf pine-oak-hickory woodland. Offsite species colonized surrounding uplands following abandonment of cotton plantations towards the end of the 19th century. Presettlement vegetation was represented by few species and individuals, and offsite species were abundant in every size class. Plant succession was arrested with little sign of directional development towards a predictable serai endpoint. Hypothesized serai trends towards proposed "climax" forests of magnolia-beech and southern mixed hardwoods were not supported.
4033035|Skeletonema costatum was the dominant species throughout a seasonal study of phytoplankton within channels of the Barrier Island complex. Diatoms and small sized species predominated, having major winter and spring population peaks that decreased into summer, followed by a lesser maximum in fall. 192 species were identified with the most common forms similar to phytoplankton abundant over the continental shelf.
4032557|Pollen are monomorphic, tricolporate and angulaperturate. OS is lolongate. L--O pattern is noted.
4033892|Seventy-two vascular plant species were collected from five temporary sand ponds located on intensively farmed agricultural land in Cass and Mason Counties, Illinois, including 43 wetland obligate (OBL), 13 facultative wetland (FACW), 8 facultative (FAC), 5 facultative upland (FACU), and 3 upland (UPL) species. Of these, Scirpus hallii A. Gray, Scirpus purshianus Fern., and Boltonia decurrens (Torr. & Gray) Wood are endangered in Illinois. These ponds are farmed in dry years, but retain water during years of above average precipitation, such as 1974 and 1993. The continued reemergence of these plants during wet years suggests the persistence of seeds of these species within the soil seed bank.
4033930|The Alabama canebrake pitcher plant, Sarracenia rubra ssp. alabamensis, is an endemic species found in just three counties of central Alabama. This study includes a census of this species, as well as an assessment of the viability of each population. Only eleven sites remain, ranging in size from 2 m
40793288|Thirty populations of Sandhills lily (Lilium pyrophilum) in North Carolina and Virginia were studied to understand the habitat requirements and develop search criteria to find new populations. In each population a study plot containing lily individuals was compared with a nearby plot lacking the lily. Lilium pyrophilum habitat occurred on floodplains and adjacent side slopes that supported four Coastal Plain plant community types and maintained rights-of-way and had an open canopy with an understory dominated by herbs and shrubs. Lily individuals occurred on a range of organic to mineral-organic soils but not on sandy soils and lily soils had higher sulfur levels. Relative to plots lacking lily individuals, Lilium pyrophilum plots had a higher wetness index. Since 97% of plots were in jurisdictional wetlands, a wetland indicator of FACW+ was recommended for L. pyrophilum. Search criteria for finding new populations were developed on the basis of the habitat features elucidated in this study.
4032341|A baldcypress (Taxodium distichum (L.) Richard) swamp bordering a marsh in St. Charles Parish was studied by the quadrat method. A dense undergrowth of alligatorweed (Alternanthera philoxeroides (Mart) Griseb.) covered most of the study area. Plant succession with extension of baldcypress into the marsh was studied by comparing township maps of 1860 and quadrangle maps of 1955 and 1957 to quadrangle maps of 1969. Only baldcypress was recorded, with tree diameters increasing from the marsh-swamp zone into the swamp. Of the 639 trees recorded in the study area, 357 were dead.
4033408|Three Rhexia species, R. aristosa, R. parviflora and R. salicifolia, are candidates for listing as endangered or threatened by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. this current review of the rarity of Rhexia taxa was made through communication with botanists, literature review, and field and herbarium studies. R. parviflora is very rare while R. salicifolia and R. aristosa are restricted, yet more locally abundant.
4032708|A study of vegetation of Fisherman Island, Virginia, was undertaken to correlate present vegetative communities with past geomorphic events. One hundred and thirtynine (139) plant species, and 14 plant communities, were identified and described. These included 8 county records and 2 state records for Virginia.
4034072|A status survey to determine population size and describe community structure was conducted during 1995 at each of seven sites where Dirca palustris (leatherwood) has been known to grow in South Carolina. Populations ranged in size from eleven to over 400 plants with a typical population size being about 100 plants. Vegetation analyses using transect lines throughout the population were used to determine the importance values of tree species. The surveyed populations were located in mesic mixed forests where Pinus taeda (loblolly pine) and Liquidambar styraciflua (sweetgum) were prevalent. Plants grew along stream floodplains and levees in well drained sandy to sandy loam soils which were slightly acidic.
4033783|Rudbeckia subg. Macrocline subg. nov. includes three species complexes: the first comprises the three species of rayless coneflowers (R. alpicola, R. montana, and R. occidentalis); the second contains six radiate species with distributions in the southeastern United States (R. auriculata, R. maxima, R. mohrii, R. nitida, R. scabrifolia, and R. texana); and the third includes the three radiate species restricted to California and Oregon (R. californica, R. glaucescens, and R. klamathensis nom. nov.). The taxa of R. subg. Macrocline are characterized by strongly cone-shaped receptacles, bright yellow ray corollas, ray florets lacking paleae (ray flowers absent in three species), glaucous stems, persistent basal leaves, disk paleae not surpassing the achenes, foliaceous involucral bracts in two or more series, a chromosome complement of n = 18, and distributions in the southeastern and western United States. Descriptions of each taxon and a taxonomic key for the subgenus is provided.
27742907|Arundinaria gigantea (river cane), a native bamboo species, was once abundant in river valleys of western North Carolina. Cane stands are now a rare ecosystem due to land use changes, but restoration efforts are underway. River cane reproduces mainly rhizomatously. Sexual reproduction is often characterized by gregarious flowering, followed by death of the flowering culms and possibly of the attached rhizomes. Suggestions have been made in the literature that clusters of flowering culms are monoclonal, but this has not been tested. In this study, leaves were sampled from sterile and fertile culms along transects from two stands in Jackson and Swain counties, North Carolina. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) fragments were generated for these samples using three primer pairs. Most of the resulting AFLP fingerprints generated were not identical; however, using a threshold dissimilarity technique, we estimated the probable number of clones in our samples. The majority of fertile culms within a stand were determined to be monoclonal and distinct from some, but not all, of the sterile culms. Cluster analysis confirmed that most of the fertile culms within each stand were more genetically similar to one another than to the sterile culms, and that the two different stands had distinct sets of genotypes, with no genotype overlap between stands. On the basis of these findings, to maximize clonal diversity and minimize the impact of culm loss after flowering, restoration projects should use propagules collected from multiple stands and from multiple localities within a stand.
4034000|Previous keys to the genus Sarracenia L. use characters of pitchers along with flowers and phyllodia, the latter two being limited to the spring flowering season and autumn respectively. Such keys, though useful in season, are heavily dependent on whether these structures are present. I present a key using pitcher characters only that can be used through the entire growing season and complementing previous keys.
4032610|Nineteen orchid genera, including thirty-six taxa, are known to occur naturally in Louisiana: Calopogon, Cleistes, Corallorhiza, Cypripedium, Epidendrum, Erythrodes, Eulophia, Habenaria, Hexalectris, Isotria, Listera, Malaxis, Platanthera, Pogonia, Ponthieva, Spiranthes, Tipularia, Triphora, and Zeuxine.
40793295|This study was undertaken to document the vascular plant species of Sand Prairie Conservation Area, an 80 hectare site located at roughly 3705'N; 8930' W in Scott County, Missouri, during the growing seasons of 2007 and 2008. A total of 220 vascular plant taxa were collected from the Conservation Area: 55 Monocots, 162 Dicots, one Pteridophyte, and two Gymnosperms. Forty-one non-native taxa were documented, representing about 19 percent of the species collected. Notable collections include 10 Species of Conservation Concern and one state record. During the 2008 growing season, the distributions of the 10 Species of Conservation Concern found on Sand Prairie Conservation Area were mapped using GPS and GIS technologies. The assembled species list, along with known distributions of Species of Conservation Concern, will serve as baseline data for future management and restoration efforts.
4032686|The Congaree River floodplain forest, part of which has been referred to as the only remaining virgin bottomland forest in the Southeast, harbors twenty-six State record-sized trees. Although a complete floristic study of the area is yet to be done, five county records, three of which are rare in the Carolinas (Radford, et al., 1968), have been found in the Beidler Tract of the floodplain.
4033937|Forests dominated by red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg.) and Fraser fir [Abies fraseri (Pursh) Poir.] occupy the highest elevations of the southern Appalachians. These forests have been severely impacted by logging early in this century and by the depredations of an exotic insect, the balsam woolly adelgid (Adelges piceae Ratz.). This study quantifies the structure and dynamics of logged and old-growth stands in the spruce-fir ecosystem and concentrates on sites that have received little previous research attention. A set of 39 permanent plots established in late 1984 was resampled in late 1991. Logged sites differed from old-growth stands by having greater mean annual diameter growth increments, higher rates of tree recruitment from the understory, and spruce age distributions skewed toward younger age classes. Greater densities of deciduous taxa and lower abundances of spruce in logged stands relative to uncut stands demonstrate that recovery from logging is a continuing process. These differences in stand structure and dynamics suggest that it will probably be decades before forest communities in logged sites resemble those in old-growth areas. Logged and uncut spruce-fir forests may also respond differently to future disturbances. Spruce mortality rates were not unusual compared to earlier research, and fir mortality rates were lower than those in earlier research, suggesting that the initial wave of adelgid-caused fir mortality is virtually complete.
4034109|The genus Lindernia All., as treated here, is represented in the New World by fourteen species. Six species are members of the Section Brachycarpae, five of which are postulated to be native in the New World. One native and one introduced species are in each of the sections Lindernia and Tittmannia. Old World introductions also include two species in Section Torenioides and one species each in sections Numularia and Bonnaya. Keys are provided to the fourteen species and four varieties that occur in the New World. Descriptions and distribution maps are included for the native taxa and most of the introduced species, and most are also illustrated. Nomenclatural changes include a new variety and new combinations for a species and a variety. Lindernia viscosa is reported for the first time in the New World.
4033963| The high peaks of the southern Appalachians (Latitude 35-37N, Longitude 81-84W) range up to 2,037 m (6,684 ft) in elevation, but lack an alpine treeline. Because some species with alpine affinities persist on high elevation rock outcrops in these mountains and because of our interest in the potential impacts of past and future climate changes on rare plants, we sought answers to the following questions: At what elevation would climatic treeline occur in these mountains under current climatic conditions if the mountains were higher and how variable are predictions based on different methods and assumptions? We compared sixteen estimates based on geographic, vegetational, floristic, and climatic lines of evidence in order to bracket the potential treeline. At 36N in eastern North America these estimates showed considerable variation, ranging from 2,009 m to 3,237 m (28 m lower to 1,200 m higher than the highest summit). World-wide latitude averages probably overestimate treeline because of differences in continentality among sites, while extrapolations from the northern Appalachians underestimate it because of importance of particular climatic factors in northern latitudes. Non-linear or site-specific methods using extrapolation of vegetation zones, alpine species distributions, or temperature correlations give estimates that lie between these extremes. The range of the four independent methods that we considered the most appropriate for the southern Appalachians was 2,285 to 2,600 m, with an average of 2,417 m (7,930 ft). We believe that the most realistic prediction of treeline elevation in the southern Appalachians, combining local summer temperature regime with the best treeline isotherm from maritime east Asia (11.9C), is 2434 m (7,985 ft), 397 m (1,301 ft) above the highest southern Appalachian peaks. 
4033849|Thirty-four shallow, seasonally flooded ponds associated with sandstone strata overlying limestone strata, have been floristically surveyed in the Ridge and Valley physiographic region of Maryland and West Virginia. Most ponds are typically wet in winter and spring, but dry in summer and early autumn. The ponds are small, muck-bottomed, and usually have less than 50 cm standing water when inundated. Vegetation varies from sparse to aspect-dominated by sedges, grasses, or woody plants. Fifty-seven vascular plant species are reported from these ponds, including several that are considered rare in the two states. The endangered sedge Scirpus ancistrochaetus is reported for the first time from both states. Sizes for the clonal populations of this sedge vary among sites from several hundred to several thousand stems.
4033655|New stations for 12 species of vascular plants considered rare, imperiled, or critically imperiled in Mississippi were discovered during collecting trips made from 1984-1989. The study area included two chalk outcrops and barrens, a mesic calcareous bluff, and a small stream bottom at the base of the bluffs along a transition area between the Pontotoc Ridge and Black Prairie physiographic regions for a distance of approximately 2.5 km. All sites are in Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, in the northeastern quarter of the state. The rare, imperiled, or critically imperiled species reported herein, which are usually associated with calcareous soils in Mississippi, are Apios priceana, Carex gracilescens, C. meadii, Carya laciniosa, Dodecatheon meadia, Euonymus atropurpureus, Fraxinus quadrangulata, Menispermum canadense, Nemastylis geminiflora, Panax quinquefolium, Penstemon tenuiflorus, and Swertia caroliniensis.
4032561|This study represents a preliminary survey of the green and blue-green algae of Northampton and Accomack Counties. Collections were made in late June and early July, 1968. One hundred and two Chlorophyceans and 43 Cyanophyceans were identified along with several miscellaneous species from other Divisions.
4033132|The vascular flora of the Obed Wild and Scenic River in Cumberland and Morgan Counties on the Cumberland Plateau of Tennessee was studied. The flora consists of 734 taxa in 392 genera and 122 families. Fifty-nine taxa are introduced. Sixteen taxa are considered threatened, endangered, or of special concern in Tennessee: Adlumia fungosa, Amelanchier sanguinea, Calamovilfa arcuata, Conradina verticillata, Helenium brevifolium, Helianthus eggertii, Hexastylis contracta, Hieracium scabrum, Hydrastis canadensis, Leucothoe racemosa, Marshallia grandifolia, Panax quinquefolium, Polygonella americana, Polymnia laevigata, Sporobolus junceus, and Talinum teretifolium. Sporobolus junceus was found for the first time in Tennessee. Helianthus eggertii, previously thought to be limited to oak barrens, is reported from bouldery gravel bars.
4032756|Two dimensional thin layer chromatographic studies of Sarracenia L. petal extracts are reported for the first time. These are correlated with leaf extract chromatography (paper) by another author, and with other factors and problems in this genus. The author agrees that chromatographic studies by themselves are of little help in phyletic and phenetic studies in Sarracenia, except in some cases where they may be considered with other characters and factors. Petal extract chromatography did disclose that red-flowered species of the genus do have masked, underlying yellow and sometimes blue pigments which would presumably be visible to bee pollinators.
4032986|Waldsteinia lobata (Baldw.) T. & G. (Rosaceae), previously unsubstantiated as occurring in South Carolina or North Carolina, has been collected recently from three sites in Oconee County, South Carolina. The literature is reviewed as to the status, range, and habitat of W. lobata, and its appearance is compared with that of similar species.
4033967|A status survey of Frasera caroliniensis Walter was conducted in South Carolina during 1993-1995 to confirm population location and determine population size, habitat, and associated vascular plants. Seven populations were found within the piedmont physiological province and ranged in size from 20 plants to over 10,000 plants. Populations typically grow in a Mesic Mixed Hardwood forest near or along streams with slightly to moderately acidic sandy loam to loamy sand soil. The canopy vegetation always included Liquidambar styraciflua, Liriodendron tulipifera, and Carya glabra. Eight other canopy species were found to be important trees, at some of, but not all the locations.
4033737|Trifolium calcaricum, a new species from central Tennessee and extreme southwestern Virginia, is described and illustrated. Diagnostic characters distinguishing it from its morphologically similar congeners, T. stoloniferum, T. virginicum, T. reflexum, and T. repens, are enumerated via key and discussion. Trifolium calcaricum is associated with limestone barrens and cedar glades.
4034206|A study of the vegetation of Dean Hills Nature Preserve in Fayette County, Illinois was undertaken to document the composition and structure of the vascular flora and to provide information for land management decisions. A total of 313 species in 85 families and 204 genera were collected at the 30-hectare preserve which occurs on a glacial kame and has a rugged ridge and ravine topography. Mature mesic and dry-mesic forest covers much of the preserve. The canopy is dominated by white oak (Quercus alba), red oak (Quercus rubra), and sugar maple (Acer saccharum). Data suggest that sugar maple is regenerating more successfully than the oaks. This same result has been found in several other studies of oak-hickory forests in Illinois. If management such as prescribed burning is not implemented, it is predicted that sugar maple will increase and oaks will decrease in dominance within the preserve.
4033351|The aromatic roots of Viola arvensis and V. rafinesquii were studied in order to determine the chemical nature and anatomical localization of their volatile compounds. Gas chromatography and mass spectroscopy revealed a single detectable volatile compound, methyl salicylate. Light microscopy and differential staining with Sudan III indicates the source of this compound to be enlarged secretory cells located in the endodermis, an unusual position for such cells in roots of angiosperms. The secretory endodermal cells are sporadic, but are more frequent in primary roots than in secondary roots and the lower portion of the hypocotyl. It is hypothesized that secretory endodermal cells are restricted within Viola to subgenus Melanium where the methyl salicylate confers protection against herbivores and/or pathogens.
27742893|Wet prairies in the Southeast consist of floristically diverse grass-sedge ecosystems that are conspicuously lacking in woody species because of seasonal soil saturation and frequent fire. They occupy a landscape position between mesic, pyrogenic pine savannas and hydric swamps and marshes. Wet prairies are recognized wherever they occur on broad expanses of land; however, many go unrecognized or are mistaken for ecotones where they occupy strips of land that narrowly separate pine savannas from more deeply inundated wetlands. Such spatially narrow wet prairie in west-central Florida was characterized in terms of its plant species composition and abundance, soils, and elevations relative to the saw-palmetto line (border with pine savanna), the cypress strand line (border with deeper wetlands), lichen line (maximum inundation following major storm events), and taper points on cypress buttresses (wet season normal pool). Wet prairie ranged horizontally from 1.5 to 30 m wide (mean 12.7  3.9 m) and vertically up to 24 cm in elevation (mean 13  6.7 cm) relative to its cypress strand line and saw palmetto line, respectively. The mean elevation of taper points varied from place to place from 3 to 15 cm above the saw palmetto line, indicating shallow wet-seasonal inundation. Soils were mostly hydric (71%), level, very poorly drained, sandy, and contained a spodic horizon. The wet prairie plant community was characterized by 97 species (25 grasses, 16 sedges, 51 forbs, and 5 shrubsall Hypericum spp.) of which 76 species were K-strategists and 21 r-strategists. The mean number of species per m2 was 12.3  3.3.
4033059|Wildrice (Zizania aquatica L.) pollen is collected and eaten by the bees, Bombus vagans Smith, Dialictus imitatus (Smith), and the syrphid fly, Toxomerus politus (Say) in Maryland. A brief review of the literature on other insects visiting typically wind-pollinated flowers of Poaceae and Cyperaceae is provided.
4033526|Hexastylis, here considered distinct from Asarum, is endemic to the southeastern United States. New or revised descriptions of ten species and five varieties are presented along with a new, dichotomous key. Three subgeneric groups--Arifolia, Speciosa, and Virginica--are recognized. Morphological, biogeographical, and phenological data indicate that the Virginica group of Hexastylis may be divided into three closely related subgroups: Virginica, Heterophylla, and Shuttleworthii. Species in the Heterophylla subgroup (heterophylla, minor, and naniflora) seem to be the most closely related and are, therefore, the most difficult to separate taxonomically. Within the three subgroups, species barriers are maintained by geographical isolation, while between subgroups, gene flow seems to be prevented by phenological isolation.
4032992|Five plants (Disporum maculatum, Stylophorum diphyllum, Synandra hispidula, Collinisia verna and Triosteum aurantiacum), previously known from fewer than five counties of Virginia, have been found in an unusual locality in Scott County. The site is significant for two reasons: these species are always rare and local in Virginia, and this is the only locality known to contain them all. Physical factors responsible for this unique habitat are availability of nutrients and moisture, exposure, and disturbance by man. The Virginia distribution and habitat preferences of several species are discussed, and all associates are listed.
4032440|This preliminary survey of stream algae in Isle of Wight County, Virginia, may serve as a basis for further studies on the algae of this area of Virginia. The objectives of this study were (1) to collect and identify the algae found in two streams, and (2) to determine, where possible, some of the ecological factors influencing the distribution of algae collected. Water samples were collected from two streams at irregular intervals from October 23, 1968, to June 22, 1969. Samples were collected from the margins of the streams, and, where possible, samples were collected from the bottom of the streams. All samples were examined immediately upon return to the laboratory, and the algae were identified. However, the lack of fruiting bodies or the lack of identifiable material, in some instances, prevented identification to species. Analysis of water for dissolved oxygen, free carbon dioxide, pH, and temperature were made at the time of collection. Tests for calcium, magnesium, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium were conducted immediately upon return to the laboratory. An attempt was made to associate the chemical and physical factors of the streams with the growth and distribution of algae collected. The algae collected were largely desmids, diatoms, species of Myxophyceae, and Chlorophyceae. The vast majority have been categorized as soft water algae. A body of water, such as a river, stream, lake, or pond, represents an intricately balanced system; however, no one factor determines the quantity and variety of algal species in a given aquatic environment. A number of factors apparently operate or interact to determine the algal flora.
4032885|The results of a 17 month phytoplankton study are given for the brown water, acidic Lake Drummond, located within the Dismal Swamp of Virginia. The lake was characterized as having mainly a diatom and desmid type flora, dominated throughout the study by Asterionella formosa. There were 80 phytoplankters noted, with the seasonal development of specific species discussed. Additional comments are made regarding a description of Lake Drummond and seasonal relationships between the phytoplankton and changing flow patterns within the lake and its canal system.
4033007|Within the town limits of Saltville, Smyth County, Virginia, are marshes that contain both fresh and salt water. The occurrence of vascular halophytes typical of the Virginia coastal plain in the ridge and valley province is best explained by bird dispersal. The prehistoric, historic, and present physical environments of the marshes are discussed, and data relevant to the dispersal of Eleocharis parvula, Scirpus robustus, Juncus gerardi, Atriplex patula, and Salicornia europaea are given. Fourteen of the forty bird species cited for the marshes are implicated in the transport of one or more of these plant species. Physical data and collection history indicates that these plants have become established in recent times, although different quantities of appropriate habitat may have existed for several thousand years. Migrating waterfowl have probably dispersed the plants from northern stations and not from the Virginia coast.
4033999|A former oak-chestnut forest community on the southwest-facing slope of Beanfield Mountain in the Mountain Lake area of southwestern Virginia, previously sampled in 1939 and 1969-70, was resampled during the summer of 1993 to assess the successional changes in forest overstory composition that have taken place following the chestnut blight. In 1939, an oak complex dominated by white oak (Quercus alba), chestnut oak (Q. prinus), and red oak (Q. rubra) had replaced the original oak-chestnut forest. The 1969-70 study found that pignut hickory (Carya glabra) had become the leading dominant on the slope, with red oak and chestnut oak the most important codominants. However, by 1993 hickory had decreased in importance, and red maple (Acer rubrum) had become a canopy codominant. Red oak and chestnut oak were still the dominant oaks, but black birch (Betula lenta) also had become a consistent component of the community. As such, nearly seventy-five years following the blight, oaks have maintained their codominant status. Hickory is less important than in 1969-70, whereas red maple and black birch are more important.
4032834|Palynological work and present distributional patterns cast considerable doubt on the presumed great antiquity of species with mountain-coastal plain disjunctions. The vegetational history of Virginia lends no support to the erosion-cycles theory of geomorphology.
4034350|Macbridea alba (Lamiaceae) is a Federally threatened plant endemic to Florida. Seedlings are rarely observed in natural populations, but seed production has been documented. We assessed the germinability of dry-stored seeds and of experimentally buried seeds, and sampled soil to detect a persistent seed bank. More than 20% of recorded seeds germinated prior to collection, either within the calyx (viviparous seedlings) or after dispersal into the collection bag. This pre-collection germination indicated that a significant percentage of seeds lack innate dormancy. An estimated 87% of dry-stored seeds were germinable for six months following dispersal, but viability of dry-stored and of buried seeds was negligible after one year. No seedlings emerged from soil that was field collected just prior to seed dispersal, indicating no persistent seed bank. Seed viability does not appear to limit establishment, but dry conditions coincident with likely autumn establishment may limit seedling safe site availability.
4032653|Eleuterius, L. N. (Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Mississippi 39564) and S. McDaniel (Mississippi State University, State College, Mississippi 39762). Observations on the flowers of Juncus roemerianus. Two plant forms were found to occur within Juncus roemerianus. One plant form consistently produces perfect flowers and the other produces pistillate flowers. Staminate flowers were not found. Pistillate flowers result from aborted stamens. Extracted rhizomes bearing inflorescences and transplants were used in the study. Observations and data presented may serve to clarify previous inconsistent descriptions of floral morphology.
4033062|Four native and one naturalized species of Berberidaceae occur in the flora of Ohio.
27742882|The Cucumber Creek Nature Preserve is located in the Ouachita Mountains of southeastern Oklahoma, a region of high plant diversity in the state. An inventory of the preserve yielded 341 taxa of vascular plants in 231 genera and 98 families. The largest families were the Asteraceae (46) and Poaceae (27). The flora consisted of 52 annuals, 1 biennial, 287 perennials, and 95 woody taxa. Sixteen exotic species were collected, representing 4.7% of the flora. Twenty-five species were present that are tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory: Actaea pachypoda, Carex cephalophora, C. latebracteata, C. ouachitana, C. striatula, Castanea pumila var. ozarkensis, Chionanthus virginicus, Dirca palustris, Fraxinus quadrangulata, Galium arkansanum, Halesia tetraptera, Hamamelis vernalis, H. virginiana, Hypericum gentianoides, Ilex opaca, Iris cristata, Magnolia tripetala, Mitchella repens, Panax quinquefolius, Piptochaetium avenaceum, Polygala polygama, Ribes cynosbati, Spigelia marilandica, Stachys eplingii, and Uvularia grandiflora.
4033445|Twelve natural populations of ginseng (Panax quinquefolium) were located in 4 physiographic provinces in Arkansas. Importance values for overstory and understory woody species were computed in order to describe the dominant woody vegetation associated with ginseng.
4032985| Cuttings from a single American sycamore clone were rooted and grown under four levels of artificial shade: 27, 45, 72 and 100 percent of full sunlight to learn more about the ecological role of this species in deciduous forests of the Southern Appalachians. After 132 days, leaf angle, leaf area, leaf thickness, stomatal frequency and size, and dry matter production of the leaves, stem, and roots were determined. Leaf angle was significantly higher under a relative illumination (RI) of 27 percent than for the other treatments, including full sunlight. Leaf area reached a maximum of 20dm
4032353|Several populations of Draba ramosissima Desv. in central Kentucky were examined with reference to the range of morphological variations they exhibited. The variability of leaf shape and pubescence is described briefly from the genetic and taxonomic points of view.
4034270|This study is a compilation of vascular flora data from previous reports and current findings from 1965 through 2003 of Fort Bragg Military Reservation and Weymouth Woods Sandhills Nature Preserve, located in the Sandhills region of North Carolina. Vascular plants are divided into four major groups: Pteridophytes, Gymnosperms, Angiosperms (monocots) and Angiosperms (dicots). Reported for the study area are 143 families, 490 genera, and 1,206 species and infraspecific taxa, of which 203 (16.8%) are alien or adventive. Sixty one species are rare, of which three are federally endangered: Lysimachia asperulifolia, Rhus michauxii, and Schwalbea americana. The following five species are currently known in North Carolina only from study area populations: Carex tenax, Hypericum fasciculatum, Pteroglossaspis ecristata, Rhynchospora crinipes, and Warea cuneifolia. This study documents the importance of Fort Bragg Military Reservation and Weymouth Woods Preserve in contributing to the floristic diversity of the longleaf pine-wiregrass ecosystem.
4033997|The current checklist of Tennessee vascular plants, published in 1993, and the two-volume atlas of distribution maps of the state's flora, published in 1993 and 1997 (and now available electronically), were compared and reconciled with volume 2 (pteridophytes and gymnosperms, published 1993) and volume 3 (dicots: Magnoliophyta: Magnoliidae and Hamamelidae, published 1997) of the Flora of North America (FNA). Numerous differences were found, including: (1) 18 taxa documented in the checklist/atlas that were not credited to Tennessee by FNA; (2) 15 FNA-listed taxa that apparently are additions to the Tennessee flora; (3) seven checklist/atlas taxa that were reduced to synonymy by FNA; (4) 40 checklist/atlas taxa that, in FNA, were changed taxonomically or nomenclatorially, transferred to another family, or some other discrepancy occurs. All changes are presented in tabular form.
4033860| Phytoplankton species composition and cell concentrations were determined from samples taken during an ongoing bloom of the toxic dinoflagellate Gymnodinium breve that occurred in November 1987 in North Carolina Core Sound and coastal waters. Despite G. breve concentrations that reached 3.27  10
4033586|Sears Woods and Carmean Woods form a 63 ha complex of old-growth, mostly primary forest in the till plains of north-central Ohio. Mesic uplands of the complex are dominated by Acer saccharum and Fagus grandifolia, with Quercus alba, Q. borealis, and Fraxinus americana also common in the canopy. The sapling size class is strongly dominated by Acer saccharum; Quercus and Fraxinus spp. are essentially absent from the sapling size class. This part of the complex corresponds well to descriptions of presettlement beech-sugar maple (F. grandifolia-A. saccharum) forest, though the substrate and topography suggest wet beech (F. grandifolia) or beech-oak-red maple (F. grandifolia-Quercus spp.-A. rubrum) forest should have occupied this site. The canopy of the lower, poorly-drained portions of the preserve is dominated by Acer saccharum, Tilia americana, Ulmus americana, and Acer saccharum; the sapling size class was dominated by A. saccharum and U. americana. With the exception of the relatively-high abundance of A. saccharum, the bottomland areas correspond well to early descriptions of the red oak-basswood (Quercus borealis-Tilia americana) phase of the elm-ash (Ulmus-Fraxinus) swamp forest. A Markov Chain model based on most-probable-replacers of current canopy trees predicts a strong increase in A. saccharum and F. grandifolia importance, with a corresponding decrease in Quercus and Fraxinus spp. abundance in the future. The predicted increase in A. saccharum is consistent with the pattern of replacement in 23 recent treefall gaps in the complex. We suggest that changes in regional drainage altered the hydrological regime in such a way as to permit A. saccharum to establish in areas historically too poorly drained for it. In addition, we suggest that the current disturbance regime, which is dominated by small patch size disturbance, fosters the growth of A. saccharum saplings, but not Quercus saplings, into canopy size classes.
4033235|A descriptive study of the woody plants from Mingo Wilderness Area in the Southeastern Missouri Lowlands contiguous with the Ozark Highlands was conducted from June 1977, through June 1979. Seven forest community types are described within the regional Southern Floodplain Forest and Oak-Hickory Forest. Geographical floristic affinities, relative abundance values, and vegetational community types are presented in an annotated catalogue comprising 128 trees, shrubs, and vines.
24619553|Byrsonima lucida (Mill.) DC is the only member of the tropical plant family Malpighiaceae native to North America, and is considered a threatened species by the state of Florida. In order to better conserve the remaining natural populations of B. lucida, we studied the breeding system of this species in natural and garden settings. We carried out floral biology and breeding system experiments over three flowering seasons from 20092012. We found that stigmas were receptive mostly during the first 2 d of flowering, but not in the final day. Self-pollination yielded few fruits and pollinator exclusion yielded no fruit set, indicating self-incompatibility and pollinator dependence in this species. Obligate outcrossing and complete dependence on a specialist bee pollinator make B. lucida's small, fragmented populations vulnerable to extinction. Conservation measures should include protecting its specialized bee pollinator.
4033093|The South Mountains from an isolated mountain range in the upper Piedmont of western North Carolina. The basic inventory of the vascular plant species and description of the vegetation types in the South Mountains State Park were completed from March 1975 to September 1976. Collections during this period resulted in 446 species and varieties, about 23% of which were new county records. Vegetation types include: river flood zone, mixed mesophytic, mixed deciduous-white pine, oak-pine, pine, and disturbed areas, most of which are correlated primarily with a topographic moisture gradient. Physical characterization of the area, floristic affinities of the vegetation, endangered and threatened species recorded, and natural area recommendations are discussed.
4032539|Cranberry Glades, West Virginia, has been of interest to scientists and nature lovers since the nineteenth century. Apparently the first scientific information on the area was published by A. B. Brooks in 1911. Several articles have since been written about this unique bog, the most significant being that by H. Clayton Darlington in 1943. An examination of the more recent literature reveals a mistake in the naming of two glades--Flag Glade and Round Glade. These glades are the second largest (28 acres) and the smallest (8 acres) of the four now recognized. The object of this paper is to clarify the naming of these glades in this important botanical area.
4033293|Forty old-growth forest stands from the Piedmont Lowland of southeastern Pennsylvania fell into a vegetational gradient with peaks of importance in the order Fraxinus americana, Tsuga canadensis, Acer saccharum, Betula lenta, Quercus prinus, Fagus grandifolia, Quercus alba, Q. velutina, and Acer rubrum (the last three strongly associated with one another). The first three species were important in stands with high soil pH, Ca, Mg, and K, and the other species were associated with lower values of these variables. Fagus importance was significantly associated with high P values. Quercus rubra and Liriodendron tulipifera both occurred broadly across the vegetational and edaphic gradient, but were strongly dissociated from one another. The area, geographically transitional between the Piedmont and Glaciated sections of the former Oak-Chestnut Forest Region, is also vegetationally transitional, for it has a greater importance of non-quercine species then Keever found in the Piedmont to the southwest, but lesser importance of non-quercine species than Buell and co-workers predicted for the (glaciated) New Jersey Piedmont to the northeast.
4032788| Dr. Joseph C. Frank (1782-1835), a German-born physician and botanist, was sent to the United States by the Wrtemberg Natural History Travelling Society, or Unio Itineraria, of Esslingen, Germany, to collect plants. Dr. Frank resided in southwestern Ohio during 1833-1835. While in Ohio he contributed to John L. Riddell's "Synopsis of the Flora of the Western States" (1835) and his "Supplementary Catalogue of Ohio Plants" (1836) and became acquainted with other contemporary Ohio botanists. In 1835 Dr. Frank went to New Orleans, where he died of yellow fever that fall. Frank's Ohio plants were later distributed by the Unio Itineraria, two sets of which were received by German botanists, Karl Frederick Meisner and John Jacob Bernhardi. Later these two private herbaria became part of the herbaria of the New York Botanical Garden and the Missouri Botanical Garden, respectively. Other botanists, principally Ernest Gottlieb Steudel and Carl Sigismund Kunth, each described species from Frank's specimens. Not generally known, however, are the isotypes from the collections of Meisner and Bernhardi, which are enumerated here in an annotated catalogue of 14 species. 
4033952|Thirty-four vascular plant taxa not previously or only incompletely documented from the North Carolina coastal plain are reported with vouchers for each county of occurrence. These comprise 22 monocots (including nine Poaceae and eight Cyperaceae) and 12 dicots. Noteworthy records are reported for another seven plant taxa, and one taxon is deleted from the flora of North Carolina.
4033907|Helianthus schweinitzii (Asteraceae) is a federally endangered, endemic sunflower that only occurs in the Piedmont of North and South Carolina. This species' habitat is relegated to disturbed sites such as roadsides, utility rights-of way, edges of woods, and other open sites. We used allozyme electrophoresis to investigate the genetic variation among 25 populations throughout the range of the species. Data collected from 11 enzyme systems representing 14 loci indicated that most populations are genetically similar and that the species, as a whole, exhibits moderate variation. Genetic distances among populations were not correlated with geographic distances. This may be due to recent fragmentation of large, contiguous populations of the sunflower into isolated groups. Conservation strategies for H. schweinitzii should include preservation and/or creation of suitable habitat and translocation of threatened populations into protected areas. Our study suggests that mitigation programs are unlikely to disturb the genetic architecture of the species or result in outbreeding depression.
4034282|The Henry Allan Gleason Nature Preserve is located in the extensive glacial sand deposits associated with the Illinois River in central Illinois. An extensive sand dune is present within the preserve on which undisturbed dry sand prairie, disturbed dry sand prairie, and blow-out communities are present. The undisturbed sand prairie is dominated by Schizachyrium scoparium (42% of the importance value [IV]), along with Tephrosia virginiana, Opuntia humifusa, and Ambrosia psilostachya. The disturbed sand prairie is dominated by Eragrostis trichodes (24% of the IV), followed by Heterotheca camporum, Ambrosia psilostachya, and Rhus aromatica. Common species in an active blow-out includes Aristida tuberculosa and Cyperus grayioides, while nearly stabilized blow-outs have a high diversity characterized by Bouteloua hirsuta, Ambrosia psilostachya, and Eragrostis trichodes. A total of 172 plant species were found: 4 fern and fern-allies, 3 gymnosperms, 39 monocots, 126 dicots. Thirty-one non-native species were found, comprising about 18% of the flora. The Floristic Quality Index for the nature preserve is 41.33 when the non-native species are included in the calculations.
4034153|Are oak-dominated forests immune to invasive exotic plants? Herbarium and land classification data were used to evaluate the extent of spread of nine invasive exotic plants and to relate their distributions to remotely-sensed land use types in West Virginia. Collector-defined habitats indicated that the most common habitat was roadsides, but seven of the nine species were found in forests. Regression analyses indicated that the most significant variables were urban land use and population per km
4034220|Huggins Island, a Significant Natural Heritage Area in Onslow County, North Carolina, was incorporated into Hammocks Beach State Park in 1999. The 60 ha island has a long history of human activity, exemplified by shell middens, a Civil War earthen fortification, and farm clearings. An inventory of the flora from 2001-2005 found 192 species of vascular plants in 148 genera and 75 families. Thirteen species were new county records, and five species were Significantly Rare in North Carolina. Thirteen species of exotics occurred, 10 of which are invasive in the Southeast. Eleven major plant communities were recognized, including previously recognized, globally rare, maritime swamp forest. The largest community was maritime evergreen forest, and the most species rich was shell midden community. Few signs of human habitation and farming were visible, but most of the upland had storm damage, likely resulting from a series of hurricanes from the mid-1990s.
4033028|Soil moisture measurements were taken at each stand on a bi-weekly basis through the growing season (using buried gypsum blocks and a Bouyoucos moisture meter) in 15 stands of varying altitudes, direction, and degree of slope in the central Blue Ridge of Virginia. In the Peaks of Otter area (8 stands), Quercus prinus stands had much lower average soil moisture than Q. rubra stands, and longer periods with soil moisture below 25%, supporting the conventional wisdom. However, composition of seven Afton Mountain area stands did not show consistent correlation with either the overall soil moisture or the number of consecutive weeks under 25% soil moisture, supporting Keever's (1973) conclusion that it cannot be assumed that Q. rubra sites are necessarily more mesic than Q. prinus sites. Further long term soil moisture studies are needed.
4033886|Studies comparing rare and widespread congeners are particularly valuable when examining hypotheses regarding the condition of rarity. Comparison of close relatives can minimize confounding effects of phylogenetic history and, optimally, eliminate ecological factors not directly relevant. Among various hypotheses regarding rarity, this paper focuses on genetic correlates and potential ecophysiological restrictions, using a comparison from the coneflower genus Echinacea as an example. Echinacea tennesseensis is an endangered species endemic to limestone "cedar glades" of Tennessee. Echinacea angustifolia is a widespread prairie species. Genetic comparison of these close relatives supports the hypothesis that rare species have lower levels of genetic variability within populations than do widespread species. However, an ecophysiological study measuring photosynthesis following different light and soil moisture preconditioning regimes provides no evidence that narrow tolerances for these factors are responsible for the endemic species' narrow geographical range. These results for the Echinacea congeners are compared with other relevant studies.
20433877|Isoetes melanopoda, a diploid species of ephemeral prairie wetland swales primarily in central North America, has also been found in swamp forests over a wide area of eastern North America in recent years. Determination of certain morphological and ecological characteristics (leaf width, habitat preference, leaf base color, megaspore ornamentation pattern, and megaspore size) distinguishes two population groupings within the species range that maintain discreet geographic distributions and thus represent distinct taxa. Most populations of these two eastern and western taxa are distinctive enough to argue for identification as separate species within I. melanopoda (s.l.). The existence of some apparently intermediate populations within a transition zone between the two taxa and the absence of stand-alone diagnostic identification features, however, indicates that a subspecific level of distinction is more appropriate. Isoetes melanopoda subsp. silvatica, subsp. nov., is proposed for the previously unnamed eastern taxon.
4033681|Parasitic weeds are of limited economic importance in the Southern United States although almost 30 species are native and several others have been introduced. The most important is Striga asiatica, a pathogen on corn and other grains. Broomrapes, especially Orobanche cernua, O. crenata, and O. ramosa have the greatest potential as possible introductions. They attack a broad range of hosts including tomatoes, tobacco, and kole crops. The most serious native parasite is Seymeria cassioides (Scrophulariaceae) that parasitizes young pines. Cuscuta pentagona, although native, is a more serious problem in other parts of the country and has been spread around the world. Each parasite family occurring in the South is discussed as well as those that could be introduced. Prediction of parasitic weed problems is based on an understanding of the host range and biology of the parasite in its native setting.
4034203|In an effort to clarify vegetation gradients in a Mississippi Embayment Coastal Plain forest, we classified sixty-one forest stands in Natchez Trace State Forest (NTSF). Ten dominance types were delineated from cluster analysis that matched seven alliances of The Nature Conservancy's (TNC) National Vegetation Classification System. Ordination analysis clearly separated upland and lowland (floodplain and bottoms) dominance types, but differences among upland dominance types were more subtle and related to a topographic gradient involving slope position and aspect. NTSF is still recovering from severe anthropogenic disturbances (early in the 1900s), so a variety of early and mid-successional species are found throughout, e.g., Liquidambar styraciflua and Quercus alba. This successional component weakens vegetation-environment relationships and complicates interpretation of stand composition. Upland forests are succeeding to mesophytic dominance, especially by Fagus grandifolia. Vegetation was a mix between typical Coastal Plain forests, with Ilex opaca common, and typical Central Hardwood forests.
4033448|Distributional data and taxonomic notes are presented for thirty-one taxa of the vascular flora of West Virginia. Ten of these are listed as rare or endangered. Two species are new to the state flora, Aster sagittifolius Wedemeyer and Puccinellia distans (Jacq.) Parl. The naturalization of the following non-indigenous species is discussed: Arthraxon hispidus (Thunb.) Makino; Lysimachia vulgaris L.; Lythrum salicaria L.; and Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus. Suggestions are made for future revisions of the state list of rare species.
4032843|The following recently discovered vascular plants are new records for the State of West Virginia, U. S. A.: Eulalia viminea (Trin.) Ktze., Rubus plicatifolius Blanchard, Rubus elegantulus Blanchard, Vicia tetrasperma (L.) Moench, Lysimachia thyrsiflora L., Fraxinus americana forma iodocarpa Fern., Phlox glaberrima L., Teucrium botrys L., Dipsacus laciniatus L., Knautia arvensis (L.) Duby., and Aster ontarionis Wieg.
4033654|The empress tree, Paulownia tomentosa (Thunb.) Steud., is native to eastern Asia and naturalized in portions of the eastern United States. In a central Virginia streamside forest, P. tomentosa trees ranged from 6 to 30 years in age (mean age = 17.1 years). The age distribution of P. tomentosa was unimodal with a strong peak in the 18 and 20 year age classes, demonstrating a major recruitment pulse in the early 1970s correlated with the passage of Hurricane Camille (August 1969). Paulownia tomentosa had the lowest importance value (=15.1) among the four dominant forest trees of the study area (Liriodendron tulipifera = 30.1, Betula lenta = 28.5, Platanus occidentalis = 16.0). Diameter distributions for all major tree species, except P. tomentosa, followed a concave pattern, which is representative of increasing or self-maintaining populations. The diameter and age distributions for P. tomentosa were convex, which indicates episodic establishment. Unlike many exotic woody plants naturalized in forests of the eastern United States, P. tomentosa is noninvasive and functions much as it does in the mesophytic forests of eastern Asia, producing small, scattered populations that arise chiefly as a result of large-scale disturbance.
4033079|Senecio pauperculus Michx. is reported as new in Mississippi and additional records are reported from other southeastern United States.
4034306|Acalypha deamii was rediscovered in Ohio after almost 50 years. Six populations were found in southwest Ohio. The growth habit and habitat of these populations are described. Acalypha deamii reputedly has drooping leaves, but that is not a reliable character. Acalypha deamii is likely to be more common than reported and found throughout southern Ohio.
4032420|Of the 57 taxa of mosses collected in the Clear Springs area, 14 had not previously been recorded from Mississippi, including one, Hookeriopsis heteroica Card., which is new to the United States.
4032554|A track abandoned for two years had a sparse (av. 61.8 per 100 M
4033076|The root parasite Pyrularia pubera Michx. (Santalaceae) is a common endemic shrub of the southern Appalachian Mountains. Hosts of Pyrularia were determined by field excavations and by growing Pyrularia seedlings with potential host seedlings in a controlled environment. Sixty tree, shrub, and herbaceous species were parasitized, including 50 genera and 31 families. Some species were not parasitized either in the forest or under culture.
4032416| The flowering behavior of four spring-blooming herbs having a wide distribution throughout the eastern United States was observed in a uniform environment. Throughout the summer and fall these plants were kept outside in cold frames in a Smith College garden. In January 1966 and 1967, the plants were transferred from outside into a greenhouse with an average daily temperature of 60 F. and an average night temperature of 50 F. Three types of flowering behavior were observed. Viola papilionacea and Saxifraga virginiensis show evidence of distinct race formation. Hepatica americana also shows evidence of race formation. However, in the uniform garden the flowering behavior of this species was altered by the total light hours received. Sanguinaria canadensis shows no evidence of race formation. It apparently responds directly to favorable environmental conditions. 
4031624|A comparison is made of the present vegetation of Spruce Knob, West Virginia, with that of 51 years ago as reported by A. B. Brooks. Since 1908 the area has been protected from fire, but has been more frequently visited as a result of construction of a road passing near the summit. The principal changes noted in the vegetation are: (1) increase in size and abundance of red spruce; (2) establishment of red maple; (3) establishment of at least two species of shrubs not present in 1908, and disappearance of several that were common at that time; and (4) establishment of several herbaceous species, including two naturalized exotics.
4033641|Dendrochronological techniques were used to examine growth differences between paired "declined" and "healthy" oak trees (subgenus Erythrobalanus) in western North Carolina. Declined trees exhibited better growth prior to the late 1940's. Following major growth reductions in the early 1950's, in 1961, and in the late 1960's for both health groups, annual radial growth of declined trees continued in a downward trend while growth of trees in the healthy class recovered, albeit at a somewhat reduced rate. By 1991, trees in the declined group exhibited typical decline symptoms.
4032981|Fourteen species of Myxomycetes are reported from West Virginia for the first time, bringing the total number of species reported to 126.
41058095|The vascular plants of Sandy Run Savannas State Natural Area, located in portions of Onslow and Pender counties, North Carolina, are presented as an annotated species list. A total of 590 taxa in 315 genera and 119 families were collected from eight plant communities. Families with the highest numbers of species were the Asteraceae (80), Poaceae (66), and Cyperaceae (65). Two species, Carex lutea (golden sedge) and Thalictrum cooleyi (Cooley's meadowrue), have federal endangered status. A total of 23 taxa are tracked by the North Carolina Natural Heritage Program, while 29 others are considered rare, but not included on the priority list. Of 44 species considered strict endemic or near-endemic taxa to the North and South Carolina Coastal Plain, 18 (41%) were collected in this study. Selected pine savannas within the site were rated as nationally significant by the North Carolina Natural Heritage Program. Fifty-one (51) non-native species were present and represented 8.7% of the flora.
41301499|Native old-field pineland with hardwood undergrowth was replaced 42 years later by alien hardwood forest dominated by invasive species at Goodwood forest in Tallahassee, Florida. Cinnamomum camphora dominated the overstory and Ardisia crenata the undergrowth. Succession theory would have anticipated development to native southern mixed hardwood forest or a subset called magnolia-beech forest. The initial native old-field forest community, prior to alien colonization, was characterized mostly by Pinus taeda, Quercus nigra, Liquidambar styraciua and other lowland trees that were not likely to persist indefinitely on uplands. These trees colonized abandoned fields on account of a dearth of seed sources for oak-hickory forest trees which occupied these well drained uplands in the 18th century. Oakhickory forest had been removed in the 19th century to allow the cultivation of cotton, and there was no evidence that it would recover at Goodwood forest.
23274383|Three sites with populations of federally endangered golden sedge (Carex lutea LeBlond) were sampled to investigate whether circumneutral soil conditions were associated with a species distribution restricted to 208 km 2 within two adjacent counties of the lower North Carolina Coastal Plain. Populations were selected to include different soil series found in a state-owned natural area. Observed golden sedge rhizome and root depths among three specimens, one per site, ranged from 6 to 8 cm below the soil surface, which suggested primarily topsoil influence. A total of 96 soil samples, 48 topsoil and 48 subsoil, were collected in transects and analyzed. Mean pH values within populations were very strongly (4.7) to moderately (5.7) acid for topsoils and moderately (5.8) to slightly (6.5) acid for subsoils. These values did not differ significantly inside versus immediately outside each population, but varied among topsoils and subsoils between populations. Other soil variables associated with marl and limestone parent material influence (i.e., cation exchange capacity, base saturation, calcium, and magnesium) did not exhibit any consistent trends either inside versus outside, or between populations. A prior study found a mean soil pH of 6.7 within golden sedge populations, but choices of sample sites and analysis techniques were questionable. Lack of soil specificity for this species encourages both searches for golden sedge populations outside the known range and restoration or enhancement of local populations.
4032804|A survey of a portion of the Green River Gorge, in Polk County, N. C., was made during 1973-74. The vascular flora includes 557 species, 179 (32%) of which are new county records. The vegetational analysis indicates six forest types correlated primarily with a topographic moisture gradient. From moist coves to dry upper slopes, ridges, and peaks, the corresponding vegetational change is from cove hardwoods or hemlock forests, to oak or oak-pine, to pine-oak or pine. Both floristically and vegetationally, this gorge is similar to the other gorges of the southern portion of the Blue Ridge Escarpment.
4033833|Electrophoresis of isozymes was carried out on samples from six populations of Trillium pusillum Michaux from the mountains and coastal plain of Virginia; samples of T. pusillum var. ozarkanum from Arkansas and T. pusillum from Alabama were also included for comparison. Twelve loci from nine enzyme systems were found to be consistently decipherable; of these, eight were polymorphic. The mean expected heterozygosity (H
4033324|Euphorbia purpurea (Raf.) Fern., historically known from southern Ohio in the early 1900s, was re-collected in 1987 in Pike County, Ohio. The Ohio population is disjunct by approximately 300 km from the nearest known population.
40983086|Tree species composition and structure was determined for an old bottomland hardwood forest located in the Moro Creek Bottoms Natural Area in south-central Arkansas. Diversity for this forest was high with species richness ranging from 33 for the overstory and sapling strata to 26 for the seedling stratum and Shannon-Weiner values of 2.54 to 1.02 for the overstory and seedling strata. Sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua L.) and oaks (Quercus spp.) dominated the overstory stratum with 66 percent of the importance values. American hornbeam (Carpinus caroliniana Walter) dominated the midstory and sapling strata with 32 and 42 percent of the importance values. Despite the large tree sizes and ages of several trees, comparison of the forest with models of bottomland hardwood succession and eastern United States old-growth definitions indicate the forest can best be described as old pioneer in transition to changing old growth.
4032351|Field work during the summer of 1967 resulted in over 2100 plant collections, primarily from the Southern Piedmont of Virginia. Thirty-eight taxa are reported for the first time as new for the Virginia Piedmont and seven are reported as new for the State.
4032754|Vascular plants found in the tidal marshes of Mississippi were collected over an eight-year period, with an intense investigation from 1973 to 1976. A list of plants totalling 173 species, representing 53 families, is presented. The general distribution is indicated for each species.
41416196|Harperella (Ptilimnium nodosum) is a federally endangered plant species with a large population along Sideling Hill Creek, Allegany and Washington Counties, Maryland. Monitoring of this species is difficult owing to the unpredictable flood events that change the distribution and composition of stream substrates of its rocky shoal habitat. We characterized substrate types in 80 quadrats using two methods of nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMS and MDS). We employed multiple-response permutation procedure (MRPP) to examine differences in substrate composition between habitats occupied (N = 52) and unoccupied (N = 28) by The NMS and MDS ordinations show that cover and amount of fine sediments are positively associated. occupies specific microhabitat with high cover of fine sediments, often held in crevices of exposed bedrock. The MRPP results demonstrated that substrate composition in occupied versus unoccupied habitats differ significantly. This difference is chiefly attributable to cover of fine sediments in occupied habitats and cobble, gravel, and sand in unoccupied habitats. We conclude that the local distribution and abundance of patches in Sideling Hill Creek is constrained by the abundance of appropriate substrate microhabitat in any given year and recommend that annual census be modified to focus on large persistent patches.
4034111|During late summer 1998, we studied 30 plots at sites on the previously inundated shoreline of Cave Run Lake, a flood-control reservoir in east-central Kentucky. Among the sites, four shoreline elements were identified: riparian forests (n = 4), sheltered banks (n = 6), flats (n = 8), and exposed banks (n = 12). Of the 167 plant species collected, 14% were Obligate Wetland species, 21% were Facultative Wetland species, 22% were Facultative species, 27% were Facultative Upland species, 5% were Obligate Upland species, and 11% were Not Categorized. Thirteen species (8%) occurred in 15 or more of the plots and 62 species (37%) were single-plot occurrences. Riparian forests had the highest representation of Obligate and Facultative Wetland species; Obligate Upland and Not Categorized species occurred most frequently on exposed banks. Flats had highest species richness and exposed banks had lowest species richness. Among all sites, increasing slope was associated with decreasing species richness. Maintenance or loss of the soil profile as influenced by slope and exposure clearly established the relative conservation value of different shoreline elements. Optimal management of these sites in the future will require consideration of flood schedules and site-specific trends (e.g., tree invasion).
4034097|The pollination ecology of the tropical shrub, Ardisia escallonioides (Myrsinaceae), was studied over a three year period 1992-94 at three subtropical hardwood forests in Dade County, Florida. The flowering phenology is a "pulsed regular annual" pattern with distinct seasonal fall flowering. Although flowers are protogynous, individual plants are hermaphroditic due to staggered flower opening within and among inflorescences. Twelve species of insect taxa visited flowers, with halictid bees the most numerous (94%). The most abundant insect was the halictid bee Augochlora pura mosieri, comprising 83% of all visits. Insect behavior on flowers was correlated with foraging techniques on the pollen-only reward flowers.
4033593|Three populations of Calamagrostis cainii Hitch. were discovered in North Carolina. Two were found at Craggy Pinnacle and one was found in the Black Mountains. These are the first discoveries of this species elsewhere than Mt. LeConte, Tennessee.
4033597|The importance of salt spray to seedling survival, biomass, and distribution was studied on Currituck Bank, North Carolina. Seedlings of shrub zone species, Triplasis purpurea (Walter) Chapman and Myrica pensylvanica Loisel., were cultivated on-site and exposed to natural salt spray levels at least 100 times greater than those occurring in the seaward grass zone. Grass zone species, Uniola paniculata L. and Spartina patens (Aiton) Muhl., were exposed to levels of the seaward forb zone. In addition, the natural distribution of seedlings was monitored among zones. Based upon survival and biomass effects, shrub zone seedlings are capable of tolerating salt spray levels of the grass zone. However, seedlings of M. pensylvanica never appeared in the grass zone nor more than a dozen T. purpurea seedlings at any point in time. Apparently, other factors have primacy over salt spray in restricting seedling appearance in this zone. Likewise, U. paniculata and S. patens seedlings rarely appeared in the forb zone even though they could have survived during extended portions of the growing season.
4033695|The barrens in Tennessee are small openings in the forest; the openings are dominated by perennial grasses which are usually the same grass taxa that dominate the Tallgrass Prairies of the Middle West. The flora of the barrens comprises nearly 40 percent of the presently known Tennessee flora. The taxa are mainly intraneous but there are significant northern, southern and western elements. There are few or no barrens endemics, but the number of taxa listed in Tennessee as rare exceed, for example, the numbers of rare taxa in the Great Smoky Mountains. Barrens today appear to be successional and are chiefly those maintained as open communities by human action. Maintenance before arrival of European settlers was presumably due to periodic drought, especially on shallow soils, and grazing-browsing-trampling, and fire. Although known areas are few, they are still being found and opportunities for their study are great.
4033630|Hickman County, one of four westernmost counties of Kentucky bordered by the Mississippi River, consists of 308,750 hectares of which 79% have been cultivated. Hickman County is part of the Jackson Formation which is overlain by loess and alluvium. Obion Creek and Bayou de Chien Creek are primary drainage systems. More than 40 habitats, many of which are wetlands, were systematically collected from March 1987 to November 1988. These collections produced a three-fold increase in the number of species, subspecies and varieties known to occur in Hickman County. The result is an annotated list of 889 taxa representing 435 genera and 126 families.
4033870|The distribution of twenty taxa of Carex (Cyperaceae) in West Virginia is described, with miscellaneous notes on habitat and taxonomic status. Six species are additions to the West Virginia flora: Carex deflexa, C. interior, C. lucorum var. austrolucorum, C. novaeangliae, C. rugosperma, and C. woodii. Previous reports of Carex interior and C. lucorum from West Virginia were based upon misidentifications. Two taxa are deleted from the West Virginia flora: Carex alopecoidea and C. atlantica ssp. capillacea. The twelve other taxa discussed are Carex aestivalis, C. albicans var. albicans, C. annectens var. xanthocarpa, C. atlantica ssp. atlantica, C. buxbaumii, C. echinata ssp. echinata, C. grayi, C. lacustris, C. nigromarginata, C. normalis, C. pellita, and C. umbellata.
4033310|A thorough literature, herbarium, and field study was undertaken in 1984 to produce reports and maps on the flora of Assateague Island, Maryland portion for Assateague Island National Seashore. In 1985 this survey was extended by means of herbarium and literature searches to include also the Virginia portion for this paper. As a result, 562 vascular plant taxa in 545 species and 105 families are here reported on this large barrier island. Of these, 153 taxa are new records for the island, and 6 species are new additions for Maryland. Details are given on flowering time, habitat, and relative frequency for these taxa. Echinochloa walteri var. laevigata comb. nov. is proposed.
4032599|A study was made of the floating log and stump communities of the Santee Swamp, Sumter County, South Carolina. The species inhabiting these communities were identified; percent frequency, mean density and vitality were determined; and the substrate was characterized as to species, degree of decay and position, as floating or attached. Twenty-four species were recorded in the 30 samples studied. The communities were homogeneous as to dominants with two species, Hypericum walteri and Boehmeria cylindrica having frequency values in the 80-100% class and 19 species with frequency values in the 0-20% class.
4033322|Fruit and leaf variation in mulberry (Morus L.) was studied in 1984 and 1985 at Bowling Green, Kentucky. Significant differences in fruit and leaf characteristics were found among branches within trees, among trees, and between years. High levels of phenotypic plasticity were evident for both fruit and leaf characteristics. The author suggests that phenotypic plasticity may have contributed to mulberry's growth and survival under disruptive environmental conditions, but may have limited its competitive ability with other tree species.
4034201|We investigated dispersal opportunities for the endangered pondberry, Lindera melissifolia (Lauraceae). In 199 hours of observation at 5 fruiting colonies in the Delta National Forest, Sharkey County, Mississippi, we recorded 82 bird species in the vicinity of a colony. Of these, 12 were observed on pondberry plants, and two consumed ripe pondberry fruits. Of these, the northern cardinal, Cardinalis cardinalis (Cardinalidae), was a seed predator. The other, hermit thrush, Catharus guttatus (Turdidae), was a dispersal agent for the plants. Numbers of fruits declined rapidly after hermit thrushes arrived in October and no fruits remained by January. Winter behavior of hermit thrushes constrains their dispersal of seeds to short distances. Without establishment of additional colonies, pondberry dispersal by birds to unoccupied patches of suitable forest is unlikely.
4033996|Morphological features were examined from more than 5,000 Rubus specimens to prepare the first comprehensive revision of the native and naturalized Rubus of Iowa. Twenty-eight species (one with two varieties) and one interspecific hybrid have been collected in the state. They are described in this revision, which contains keys to subgenera and species designed specifically for field researchers in Iowa and nearby states. Synonymy, distribution, phenology, habitat, associated plants, and taxonomic treatment by past researchers are also discussed. Range-wide county distribution maps are presented for 22 species representing Rubus subgenus Rubus (the blackberries and dewberries), and Iowa county distribution maps have been included for R. idaeus L. var. strigosus (Michx.) Maxim., R. occidentalis L., R. parvifolius L., and R. pubescens Raf. The findings of this study are discussed in the context of the putative reticulate phylogeny among species of Rubus subgenus Rubus, and potential subjects for future molecular and cytological research are proposed.
4032660|Jonca Creek and its surrounding wooded slopes and granitic outcrops are the focus of this study. The upland study site is characterized by six fairly distinct habitats: 1) Old fields; 2) Upper slopes; 3) Mid-slope escarpments and rock outcrops; 4) Lower slopes; 5) Creek bottom; and 6) Recently disturbed creek banks and roadsides. An annotated list of 534 taxa including their habitats and frequency of occurrence within the study area is presented.
4033708|Expansion of an eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) forest was studied in a north-facing ravine system in the eastern piedmont of Maryland. Based on size-class distributions, historical photographs, distribution of standing live and fallen decaying trees, and diameter growth rate regressions, the forest appears to be a climax community expanding throughout the ravine system, including deciduous upland areas between ravines. Coverage increased from 6.1 ha to 29.7 ha between 1938 and 1986 and is expected to reach at least 119 ha in the absence of fire, logging, overbrowsing by deer, and catastrophic wind.
4032476|A summer study of the phytoplankton in Lake Drummond is discussed. The lake is located in the center of the Dismal Swamp region of southeastern Virginia. There was little species diversity of the phytoplankton which was composed mainly of diatoms, desmids, and phytoflagellates. The dominant species were Asterionella formosa, Melosira Herzogii, Closterium gracile, and Staurastrum paradoxum.
4033432|The Clinch River gorge area of Russell County, Virginia, contains several species of biogeographic interest. At or near the southeastern extent of their ranges are Sullivantia sullivantii, Campanula rotundifolia, Galium boreale, Rhynchospora capillacea, Paxistima canbyi, Apocynum sibiricum, Euphorbia purpurea, Deschampsia caespitosa, and Fraxinus nigra. At or near the northeastern extent are Lithospermum tuberosum and Viola walteri. Several other unusual species occur here. Details of physiography and habitats are given.
4032460|Heterotheca ruthii is reported as being collected again after a fifty year lapse. The chromosome number is cited to be N=9.
4032722|A checklist of the woody plants of the Ocala National Forest in central Florida is presented, along with brief descriptions of the habitat types found in the forest. The list includes 54 families and 168 kinds of trees, shrubs, and woody vines.
4033748| Rhododendron maximum L. restricts regeneration of overstory species; however, the mechanisms are poorly understood. Three treatments were used to examine the effects of R. maximum germination success and survival of Acer rubrum L. under a closed overstory canopy: (1) R. maximum understory, (2) open understory, and (3) open understory with shadecloth. Shadecloth treatments mimicked the low light conditions beneath R. maximum (<5% full sun) while controlling for R. maximum forest floor influences. Soil moisture was significantly lower under R. maximum than under open or shadecloth treatments. Initially, Acer rubrum survival was similar for open understory and shadecloth treatments, while germination and survival in R. maximum plots were low. After approximately 20d, mortality in the shadecloth treatment increased and survival rates were less than 5% by the end of the sampling period. Survival in the open understory treatment stabilized at >2 that observed under shadecloth, while percent germination and survival in R. maximum plots were lower than in either of the other treatments throughout the sampling period. These results suggest that in addition to the light limitation associated with R. maximum, edaphic effects such as low soil moisture or allelopathic compounds may inhibit Acer rubrum success. 
4033165|Six species and one forma in Prenanthes in Virginia are treated floristically. Keys, descriptions, distributions, habitats, flowering and fruiting times are given for all taxa. Chromosome numbers are included when known.
4033228|The apparent optimum habitat of this species, often misunderstood in the literature, is clarified as an open, grassy seep-slope bog. The relative timing of anthesis and pitcher maturation is discussed, as well as the phenology of pitcher leaf deterioration in late summer along with phyllodia formation. Flower fragrance, also disputed in the literature, is again emphasized as present and similar to that of S. flava in character.
4033009| The arborescent vegetation of Highlands Hammock State Park, Highlands County, Florida, was sampled by means of the quadrat method during the late spring of 1979. Twenty-five 10  10 m quadrats were established in two areas of the park: the "Big Oak Trail" and the "Hickory Trail." Density, relative density, frequency, relative frequency, basal area, relative dominance and importance values were calculated for each species. Quercus virginiana was dominant in the Big Oak Trail, and Sabal palmetto was co-dominant. Sabal palmetto was dominant on the Hickory Trail with Quercus virginiana the co-dominant species. Carya glabra while represented by several large trees, was fourth in relative dominance and importance value on the Hickory Trail. Infrequent but severe cold probably accounts for the dominance of the afore-mentioned species. 
4032768|In decisions regarding taxa of the Scrophulariaceae in Ohio, plants of Gratiola viscidula are assigned to var. shortii, Lindernia anagallidea is included within the circumscription of L. dubia as L. dubia var. anagallidea comb. et stat. nov., Penstemon digitalis is defined so as to include P. alluviorum, and Penstemon brevisepalus is excluded from the known State flora.
24619733|A floristic survey of Crowders Mountain State Park, located in Gaston and Cleveland Counties in North Carolina, was conducted from 20102011 to document prairie-relict species. In addition, 1-m2 quadrats (n = 200) were sampled from four remnant power line rights-of-way/roadside prairie communities in the park to assess community structure. Cover and frequency values were assessed for species within the quadrats and species were also placed into guild groupings. A total of 143 prairie-relict species from 37 plant families were identified for the entire park, 69 (48%) of which were also found in the sampled quadrats. Eighty-three (58%) species were previously undocumented for the park. Summer forbs represented the largest guild at 66 (46%) with several rare and uncommon species for North Carolina, including the North Carolina Rare Symphyotrichum georgianum (Georgia aster) and Echinacea purpurea (eastern purple coneflower). The communities had a combined Floristic Quality Assessment Index (FQAI) of 48.8 and a mean C-value of 4.2. Evidence from this study further suggests that prior to fire suppression prairie/savanna communities were likely once more prevalent in what is now Crowders Mountain State Park.
4034168|Age and structural characteristics were measured in two frequently burned old-growth mountain longleaf pine (Pinus palustris Mill.) communities along Choccolocco Mountain in northeastern Alabama. Stands studied were open-canopied and park-like (8.3 to 13 m
24619719|Lindera melissifolia is a federally endangered wetland shrub endemic to the Southeastern Coastal Plain and the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley. Lindera melissifolia is known to occupy seasonally flooded habitats, but little work has been done to describe habitat characteristics in the Southeastern Coastal Plain region. This research uses vegetation and environmental data collected from 50 plots in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia to develop a habitat classification and description for L. melissifolia in the Southeastern Coastal Plain. Cluster analysis, nonmetric multidimensional scaling, indicator species analysis, and analysis of variance were used to assign plots to four distinct isolated wetland habitat types. Swamp Tupelo Depression Pond and Successional Swamp Forest communities supported the densest and healthiest L. melissifolia populations, followed by Pond-Cypress Pond and Pocosin, and Limestone Sink Forest habitats. Habitat degradation and other forms of disturbance were found to impact L. melissifolia populations in this region. This classification and description can be used to advance overall understanding of L. melissifolia ecology, and to provide specific habitat requirement information to land managers in the Southeastern Coastal Plain.
4033219|The earliest European record of Robinia pseudoacacia dates from 1634 when the famous British horticulturist John Tradescant lists the plant in his Plantarum in Horto, at which time it appears to have been at least 10 years old. Correspondence (ca. 1625-1635) between John Tradescant and Jean Robin (arborist to the French Court) is responsible for the introduction of this plant into French horticulture. French records indicate that this species was transplanted by Vespasien Robin, son of Jean, from his father's garden at Place Dauphine to the newly established Jardin Royal des Plantes Medicinales in 1635. This venerable native of North America, now about 350 years old, is still growing in Paris.
41301579|All orchids require free-living, mycorrhizal fungi to complete their life cycles in nature and consequently, orchid conservation must take into account both organisms. In light of climate change now underway, orchids and other plants must be capable of migrating to higher latitudes, either on their own or with human intervention (= assisted migration). In this paper, we describe the symbiotic germination of a common terrestrial orchid, Habenaria repens, in situ using seeds from a southern ecotype (Florida) placed at latitudes at and above the species' current natural range. To recover fungi in situ, 500 nylon packets containing 25,000-50,000 seeds were buried at 5 field sites within the Atlantic coastal plain in North Carolina, Maryland, and Virginia. After ca. 5 months, a total of 10 leafless seedlings (protocorms) were recovered from two North Carolina sites, one harboring an extant H. repens population, the other an extirpated population. These protocorms yielded mycorrhizal fungi assignable to the anamorphic genus Epulorhiza. The physiological significance of each isolate was confirmed after H. repens seeds germinated in vitro following fungal inoculation (= symbiotic germination). This study demonstrates that seeds of H. repens from a southern ecotype (Florida) are indeed capable of germinating at higher latitudes where fungi already persist. Consequently, the mycotrophic demands of orchids like H. repens might be met by assisted migration involving seed release alone.
4034045|Rhynchospora harperi Small, sometimes synonymized with R. filifolia Gray, is here regarded as a distinct species. It is distinguished from R. filifolia primarily by achenal features. Historically known only from Florida, Georgia, and Alabama, R. harperi now is also known to occur in South Carolina, North Carolina, Maryland, and Delaware; and in Belize, Central America.
4033386|Nine species of Cuscuta all belonging to the Section Cleistogrammica of the Subgenus Grammica occur in Virginia: Cuscuta campestris, C. pentagona, C. compacta, and C. gronovii are widespread, C. rostrata is restricted to the higher elevations of the Appalachian Mountains; C. indecora is found in coastal areas but may also be weedy; C. polygonorum, C. corylii, and C. cephalanthii are known from only a few collections each. Taxonomic characters of the Section Cleistogrammica as well as the biology and distribution of Virginia dodders are discussed.
4032679|A cursory examination was made of aquatic macrophyte distribution along the 207 kilometer length of the Monongahela River, a 210 kilometer reach of the upper Ohio River, and the lower 116 kilometers of the Allgheny River where commercial navigation is maintained. Aquatic vascular plants were abundant and diverse in both the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers. Significant qualitative differences were observed in the aquatic macroflora of the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers that may be related to basic differences in the channel morphologies and the substrates of these two rivers. Aquatic plants, at least conspicuous emergent vegetation, were not abundant in the reach of the mainstem Ohio River that was examined.
4033443| Tree, shrub/sapling, and herbaceous strata of three second-order watersheds in Breathitt County, Kentucky, were sampled in 65 plots (plot size = 0.04 ha) using a plot/plotless technique. Liriodendron tulipifera, Tsuga canadensis, Fagus grandifolia, and Quercus alba dominated the lower slopes, Quercus velutina and Q. prinus the upper slopes, and a mixture of upper and lower slope taxa dominated the middle slopes. Tree density (406 stems/ha), basal area (37.6
4033497|Vegetation and soil characteristics of five, steeply sloped sandstone glades located in Devil's Den State Park, Arkansas were surveyed. Soil factors were similar to those of other glade types reported in the literature. Mean soil depth was 5.2 cm, and 90% of all soil depth measurements were <10 cm. Quercus stellata and Juniperius virginiana were the most common tree species, and mean basal area for all trees was only
4032976|The adder's-tongue ferns, Ophioglossum (Ophioglossaceae) are noted for taxonomic problems. Of the seven species known in southeastern United States, Ophioglossum nudicaule L. fils is the most variable and taxonomically confused. C.M. Allen's recent discovery in Louisiana of plants matching the tropical American O. ellipticum Hook. & Grev. led to a study of this taxon and its relationships with O. nudicaule. Taxon ellipticum differs from the traditional concept of O. nudicaule in its larger size, complex venation pattern with small secondary areoles included within the large primary areoles, and a pale central band on either side of the midrib on the abaxial surface of the blade. Comparison of forms of O. nudicaule demonstrates that there is a continuous morphological series running from very small plants with relatively simple veins and no included areoles to large plants with complex veins and numerous included areoles. The epithets that have been applied to the United States members of this series are enumerated here, and all of them, including ellipticum, are synonymized under O. nudicaule. According to this new interpretation, Ophioglossum dendroneuron E.P. St. John is an intermediate form that ties together the two ends of the spectrum of variation. A key to all of the species now recognized in the southeastern United States is presented, together with suggestions for making useful collections of these plants. It is hoped that the Allen locality will be preserved for future studies of what is the only presently known adder's-tongue in the United States that has the characters of typical O. ellipticum.
4033106|Ten naturally occurring or naturalized vascular plant taxa are reported for Georgia with specific locations. Nine have not been previously recorded for Georgia in taxonomic literature. The tenth was reported without documentation. One, Sedum lineare, is apparently an addition to the North American flora.
4033889|Explorations since 1992 in Bibb County, Alabama, have revealed an extraordinary, undescribed glade community developed over the Ketona Formation, an unusually pure dolomite. Eight new endemic taxa were found: Castilleja kraliana, Coreopsis grandiflora var. inclinata, Dalea cahaba, Erigeron strigosus var. dolomiticola, Liatris oligocephala, Onosmodium decipiens, Silphium glutinosum, and Spigelia gentianoides var. alabamensis. In assessing systematic relationships of the Erigeron and Silphium, two additional undescribed taxa, not of Bibb County, were discerned, E. strigosus var. calcicola and S. perplexum. Seven state records were discovered: Solanum pumilum, last collected in 1837 and presumed extinct; Astrolepis integerrima, disjunct from Texas; Paronychia virginica, bridging a gap between Arkansas and Virginia; Baptisia australis var. australis, Rhynchospora capillacea, R. thornei and Spiranthes lucida. More than 60 plant taxa of conservation concern occur on or near these glades, marking them as one of the most significant reservoirs of botanical diversity in the eastern United States.
41301501|Dalea species are legumes that often are included in seed mixtures used for prairie restorations. Three Dalea species (D. foliosa, D. Candida, and D. purpurea) exhibit two different types of seeds: plump (well-rounded larger) and dented (wrinkled smaller) seeds. Differences in germination and viability of these two types of seeds have not been reported. Our objectives were to compare seed mass, germination and viability between these types of seeds for three Illinois Dalea species. Fruits were collected for D. foliosa from 1998-2001 (Will County) and for D. Candida and D. purpurea from 2001-2003 (Kankakee, Tazewell and Will Counties). For each species, seed mass, germination and viability were determined per seed type (plump or dented). Seed mass was significantly higher for plump than dented seeds for all three species. For D. foliosa and D. Candida, germination of dented seed exceeded that of plump seed in some years. For D. purpurea, germination was significantly greater for plump seeds in both years. For ungerminated seeds of D. foliosa, only the plump seeds were viable, whereas for D. Candida and D. purpurea, both seed types were viable. A comparison of seed germination among all three species when collected in the same county and year showed lower germination for D. foliosa than for D. Candida and D. purpurea. In summary, seed types play a significant role in germination of these three species, and D. foliosa has lower germination than D. Candida or D. purpurea.
4033926|The vascular flora of the Chickasaw National Recreation Area, Murray County, Oklahoma, was inventoried. The study area is located in the Arbuckle Mountains physiographic region of Oklahoma. The geology of this region is composed of limestone and conglomerate rocks which is unique to the predominantly sandstone surface geology of central Oklahoma. A total of 582 taxa of vascular plants in 358 genera and 104 families was verified in the present study, resulting in a list of 717 taxa when combined with results from previous studies. No federally listed or endangered species were encountered, ten species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were present. Comparisons to previous floristic surveys were made and descriptions of the major vegetation associations were provided.
4033193|Thirty-four taxa of mosses were collected from Hillsborough River State Park in Florida. Some bryogeographical interpretations and new records are noted.
4032919|An attempt is made to delimit the Southern Appalachian Highlands on a natural ecological basis rather than using political or physiographical boundaries.
4033391|During the growing season of 1979, the senior author completed a survey of the vascular flora of Rockingham County, Virginia. These collections, along with previous studies by others, produced a catalogue of the vascular plants with 125 families, 490 genera and 1095 species. A total of 62 species represent new county and/or state records. These are reported herein.
20433911|Powhatan County is a largely rural county of the Virginia piedmont currently experiencing exurban development pressure. Commercial pine forests occupy much of the land area; most natural vegetation occurs in various hardwood forests. Plant life is supported largely by soils derived from Proterozoic to Paleozoic metamorphic and igneous rocks, soils developed over Triassic basins, and riparian soils associated with the James and Appomattox Rivers. The annotated checklist is based on new collections gathered between September 2003 and August 2005, supplemented with records from regional herbaria and the Atlas of the Virginia Flora. Field work sampled at least 12 distinct community groups recognized in Virginia. The checklist contains 1020 taxa (1013 species, 515 genera, and 146 families). Twenty-one percent of the species are naturalized introductions. Twenty five species (2.5% of the total) are of conservation concern, and 118 collections (12% of the total) represent new records for Powhatan County.
4033719|Between 1986 and 1990 a collection of vascular plants from several natural areas of National Park Service lands in the District of Columbia was conducted. These voucher specimens are deposited in the United States National Herbarium (US) at the Smithsonian Institution. Sixty-six species are new reports for the District of Columbia. They represent 33 families and 54 genera. Ten are indigenous species and 56 are introduced. The project described in this paper is the outcome of National Park Service cooperation with the Smithsonian Institution and The Nature Conservancy. The purpose is to provide a checklist of vascular plants in the District of Columbia at the end of the twentieth century. Since the District of Columbia is not a state it has been excluded or inadequately represented in published state and county plant lists.
4032952|Floristic studies of the wetland flora in southwestern West Virginia during the past two years have resulted in the discovery of several unreported taxa for the state. These new additions as well as other rare wetland taxa having a limited or disjunct distribution are unreported. All specimens cited are in the herbarium of Marshall University (MUHW).
4033155|Fimbristylis perpusilla Harper, formerly known from only two counties in southwest Georgia, is now documented from northeast South Carolina. Considered by Kral (1971) as the rarest species of Fimbristylis in North America, the South Carolina record is a range extension of approximately 600 km.
4033323|Glade Fern Ravine, a ravine about 10 hectares in size in northern Oconee County, South Carolina, harbors 16 species of ferns. The spleenwort Asplenium monanthes L. and the filmy fern Trichomanes petersii Gray, both rare in the southern Appalachians, are common here. Plants of Athyrium pycnocarpon (Sprengel) Tidestrom cover the lower slopes of the ravine, the fern's second reported locality from South Carolina. Noteworthy species of trees, mosses, and liverworts are also found in the ravine. Many of the rare species found in Glade Fern Ravine are calciophilous species. The ravine is located in the Brevard geologic belt, rocks of which have weathered into a rich calcareous soil. The ravine's rich circumneutral soil and its northeasterly orientation combine to make Glade Fern Ravine an ideal refuge for moist-site calciophiles.
4032726|A floristic survey of Stone Mountain State Park, in portions of Alleghany and Wilkes Counties, N.C., was made during 1971-72. The survey lists 347 species, 115 (33%) of which are new county records--5 in Alleghany County and 110 in Wilkes County.
4034090|Eleven species and one subspecies are reported as new or noteworthy to the flora of Kentucky. Carex cherokeensis Schweintz, Carex reniformis (L. Bailey) Small, and Carex seorsa Howe are reported for the first time. Significant increases in distribution are reported for Carex abscondita Mackenzie and Carex socialis Mohlenbrock & Schwegman. Additional records and/or updates of historical records include Carex aestivalis M. A. Curtis, Carex alata Torrey, Carex appalachica Webber & Ball, and Carex leptonervia (Fernald) Fernald. Previously reported but without cited vouchers, the occurrence of Carex atlantica L. Bailey subsp. capillacea (L.Bailey) Reznicek, Carex crebriflora Wiegand, and Carex longii Mackenzie are now verified.
4032630|Floristic data and county dot distribution maps are presented for 38 species of the title subfamily found as native, naturalized, or adventive plants in the flora of Ohio. Agalinis gattingeri and Veronica filiformis are additions to the known state flora; the report of Digitalis grandiflora is the first for Ohio, and perhaps the first for North America.
23274382|Hemlock woolly adelgid, Adelges tsugae, is spreading throughout the northeastern United States, causing large-scale dieback of the eastern hemlock, Tsuga canadensis. This study examined soil nitrogen transformations and stream water nitrogen content at five hemlock-dominated stands in southern Pennsylvania, spanning a spectrum of hemlock mortality, from no mortality to total A. tsugaeinduced mortality with subsequent regrowth. Organic content, extractable nitrate, and net nitrification and mineralization rates, as well as nitrate and ammonium movement through the soil were significantly higher at sites with high mortality. Our results suggest that stand-level hemlock mortality is leading to increased nitrogen inputs to stream water. Stream water nitrate concentrations were lowest at the site with little to no mortality (0.035 mg/L NO 3  ) and highest at the site with intermediate mortality (0.69 mg/L NO 3  ). In the sites with the longest time since infestation and highest mineralization and nitrification rates, regenerative seedling growth (Betula spp. in particular) is leading to increased uptake of nitrate, likely reducing nitrate leaching rates once substantial regeneration occurs. However, for a period of several years after infestation, hemlock dieback may be a significant source of nitrate in headwater streams, potentially altering headwater aquatic community composition and increasing downstream nutrient pollution.
27742912|Cane (Arundinaria spp.) was one of the most important plant resources for Native Americans living in the southeastern United States prior to Euro-American settlement. The use of cane permeated virtually every aspect of tribal life. Cane was used to make houses and village structures, military and hunting weapons, fishing gear, furniture and domestic implements, personal adornments, baskets, musical instruments, and watercraft. Medicines were prepared from cane, and parts of the plant furnished food and fuel. Canebrakes provided agricultural land, livestock forage, and habitat for wild game. Although large numbers of canes were harvested each year, there is no historic evidence that Native Americans actively managed canebrakes for the production of culms. The cultural importance of cane to Native Americans declined dramatically following Euro-American settlement of the southeast because: 1) trade goods were deemed superior and replaced articles made from cane in local economies; 2) the rapid disappearance of canebrakes deprived Native Americans of raw material and forced them to seek alternatives; and, 3) many of southeastern tribes were eventually relocated to regions peripheral to or outside of the geographic range of cane.
4033949|Woody plant succession is a particular conservation management concern in Carolina bays because many rare plant species are most abundant, or limited to, herbaceous communities with little or no tree cover. In a Carolina bay in Maryland, effects of woody plant succession on plant species abundance and community characteristics were studied during 1987-99. The dominant species, Rhexia virginica L., decreased in cover by 89% in the depression-meadow community and by 81% in the contiguous expanding zone of seedlings of persimmon (Diospyros virginiana L.), red maple (Acer rubrum L.), and sweet gum (Liquidambar styraciflua L.). Woody plant expansion was probably related to a 1986-88 drought. Since R. virginica declined significantly in unshaded and partially shaded zones, irradiance level apparently does not solely explain its decrease in abundance; field observations warrant testing for allelochemic substances passively leached from tree species. Fimbristylis autumnalis (L.) Roemer & Schultes increased in both depression-meadow and woody seedling zones by a factor of 24 and 25, respectively, and it became a codominant by 1992. Manual removal of successional woody species and prescribed burning during episodic droughts may be critical to the restoration and maintenance of species richness in the depression-meadow community.
4033576|A sample of non-alluvial and alluvial lowland forests in the coastal plain of South Carolina was classified using cluster analysis and then analyzed for environment-vegetation relationships using reciprocal averaging ordination. A gradient of water table position, fire frequency, and fire severity was noted in the non-alluvial lowland forests. Two gradients, topographic position and river size, were identified in alluvial lowland forests.
41819476|Plant species distributions and transitions between vegetation types are determined by numerous factors, including disturbances such as fire. Documentation of past changes in the distribution and structure of fire-dependent ecosystems is necessary to assess the success of land management in maintaining historic vegetation types. In our study systemlongleaf pine (Pinus palustris)-wiregrass (Aristida stricta) savannas and embedded wetlands (i.e., pocosins)wiregrass is dependent on frequent burning. We used soil carbon (C) isotopes to test for past changes in the abundance of wiregrass and for shifts in the ecotone between savanna and pocosin in four sites at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Wiregrass has a C photosynthetic pathway and therefore produces organic matter enriched in C compared to other dominant species in the community that have a C photosynthetic pathway. At each of the four sites, we measured profiles of soil C to a depth of 1 m at four locations along the vegetation gradient from upland savannas to lowland pocosins. Surface soil C, which reflects C inputs from current vegetation, did not differ along the gradient despite a decrease in wiregrass cover from savanna, where it is abundant, to pocosin, where it is absent. Enrichment of soil C with depth was indistinguishable from effects of decomposition, indicating that past variation in the abundance and distribution of wiregrass was not detectable in our study sites. Our results suggest that wiregrass currently does not produce, and historically has not produced, enough biomass to influence soil C values along the savanna-pocosin gradient.
4034317|During a survey of residual fire-maintained pineland vegetation of the Atlantic Coastal Plain Province, we discovered occurrences of numerous rare species. Here we report 27 taxa as new or historically reported without known documentation for South Carolina and one as new to North Carolina. Two species are identified as having been incorrectly attributed to South Carolina. In addition, the known ranges of 20 other regionally rare taxa are significantly expanded. The additions to the South Carolina flora include primarily species more common farther to the south and species formerly thought to display range disjunctions between southeastern North Carolina and Florida or southwestern Georgia.
4033604|Cyperus houghtonii Torr., C. iria L., and C. polystachyos Rottb., are reported from West Virginia for the first time.
4034119| Magnolia macrophylla has been variously reported in the literature as having been discovered by Andr Michaux (1746-1802) in either North Carolina in 1789 or Tennessee in 1795 or perhaps by William Bartram (1739-1823) in Alabama in the 1770's. The present study uses a variety of source materials, including primary sources, to sort out the conflicting geographic claims and proposes the location of Michaux's North Carolina sites from new field studies. 
4033371|The bryoflora of the Red River Gorge region, on the western escarpment of the Cumberland Plateau, is rich and geographically diverse. The 264 taxa include 179 mosses (174 species and 5 varieties) and 85 hepatic species. Most Red River taxa (about 80%) are more or less widely distributed in the northern hemisphere and about half range south to the Gulf Coast in North America. These remarkably broad distributions (compared to those of vascular plants) are similar to those for the North America bryoflora as a whole. At Red River, northern species, rare species, and hepatics are favored by the numerous caves and ravines carved from the hard Pennsylvanian sandstone-conglomerate and from Mississippian limestone. Rare species include Gymnostomum angustifolium, Hygrohypnum closteri, and Scopelophila cataractae. Examples of relict or disjunctive taxa found in caves are Bryoxiphium norvegicum, Hookeria acutifolia, Brothera leana, Diphyscium cumberlandianum, Rhabdoweisia crispata, Syrrhopodon texanus, Trichostomum tenuirostre, and Plagiochila sullivantii.
4033513|The Brayton-Horsley Prairie is a 14-hectare prairie and spring fen complex in Bremer County, east-central Iowa. Three community types are found at this site, including mesic prairie, wet prairie, and spring fen. Of the 192 native vascular plant species found at this site, 35 are considered rare within the Iowan Erosional Surface. Nine are considered endangered or threatened in the state in the 1986 publication of Roosa et al. The spring fen community was found to harbor most of these rare taxa. Fens are one of the most important habitats in eastern Iowa for rare plant and animal populations, and should be protected to help preserve regional biodiversity.
41058093|Cross-sections of 36 post oaks (Quercus stellata Wang.) were examined to determine the fire history of a post oak woodland in Hamilton County, Illinois. The 226-year tree ring record contained three distinct periods; a fire era from 1776 to 1850 having a mean fire return interval of 1.97 years, a fire-free period from 1851 tol884, and a second fire era from 1885 to 1996 having a mean fire return interval of 1.44 years. The fire-free interval corresponds with the rapid settlement of Hamilton County during 1850-85. The fires between 1770 and 1850 are considered landscape fires associated with Native Americans and/or early European settlers, while those between 1885 and 1996 are thought to be due to burning of local woodlands, a practice that became increasingly less common in the late 20th century. Three post oak cohorts were identified, including 211-224 year-old (217-year mean), 137-151 yearold (144-year mean), and 104-115 year-old (105-year mean) age classes. Post oak recruitment ended and fire sensitive hickories (Carya ovata and C. tomentosa), black cherry (Prunus sertina), sassafras (Sassafras albidum), and black oak (Quercus velutina) now dominate the seedling and sapling layers of the woodland.
4033564|Although logging and homesteading were widespread in the Great Smoky Mountains (prior to the acquisition of the land by the National Park Service), few parkwide studies of historical anthropogenic disturbance have been completed. Based on a disturbance history summary map developed primarily from archival records, the type and extent of historical land use were tabulated, on a parkwide and, also, on a major watershed basis. Human-related disturbances were categorized as corporate logging (40%), concentrated settlement (9%), diffuse disturbance (21%), big trees with diffuse disturbance (8%), and miscellaneous disturbances (3%). Twenty percent of the Park was considered high in virgin forest attributes. The attributes chosen to define virgin forest in this study were, for a given area, the absence of written records concerning historical human impacts on the forest and the absence of any mapped record of human land use. The discussion focuses on key characteristics of each disturbance category and on factors that determined differences in the severity of disturbances in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park.
4034098|Cane (Arundinaria gigantea (Walter) Muhl.) is found throughout the southeastern United States and forms monotypic stands known as canebrakes. Canebrake ecology has been largely ignored by contemporary workers and this paper is intended as a comprehensive review. Reproductive biology is poorly understood and various flowering cycles have been reported. Seed dispersal and seedling development remain largely unknown. Density estimates range as high as 160,000 culms/ha. Historic accounts suggest canebrakes were a dominant feature of the frontier landscape, particularly in alluvial habitats. Canebrakes developed under regimes of moderately intense disturbance, and probably originated when Indian agriculture was greatly curtailed following population declines caused by introduced European diseases. Subsequently, Indian burning practices maintained and expanded canebrakes by eliminating competing woody vegetation. Settlers valued canebrakes for livestock grazing and considered them indicative of fertile soils. Decline was rapid following settlement due to a combination of overgrazing, altered burning regimes, and landclearing. Large canebrakes are no longer extant and are not favored by current regimes of extreme disturbance.
4033871|We sampled aboveground biomass in four stands of oak-saw palmetto scrub vegetation that were 2, 4, 8, and 25 years since the previous fire by harvesting
4033832|A morphological study of the Trillium pusillum Michaux complex was undertaken to clarify the range of variation and taxonomic standing of ten populations in the coastal plain of Virginia and southeast Maryland and two populations in the mountains of Virginia. Morphological measurements were taken from fresh material and analyzed using univariate analysis of variance and nested analysis of variance, and the multivariate techniques of stepwise discriminant analysis and canonical discriminant analysis. No unequivocal geographic patterns of variation were found. The mountain populations were found to have significantly broader leaves and shorter pedicels, but some coastal plain populations were equally divergent if other characters were examined. It is suggested that all of these populations be considered Trillium pusillum var. virginianum Fernald or more simply Trillium pusillum.
4032598|A preliminary taxonomic conspectus of Heterotheca section Chrysopsis recognizing the seven species: H. pilosa, H. mariana, H. scabrella, H. gossypina, H. latisquamea, H. trichophylla, and H. hyssopifolia.
4032871|The existence of a putative hybrid between Ranunculus abortivus and R. micranthus in Southwest Ohio is discussed, and is substantiated by means of a hybrid index. In all probability it is a sterile F
4034041|An inventory of the state and federally rare native plants on Fort Bragg and Camp MacKall Military Reservations, North Carolina, yielded populations for 83 taxa. Of this number, 49 represent new state records, significant range extensions within the state, or significant rediscoveries within the state. In this paper, we discuss habitat, taxonomy, and identification of these taxa. Included are 10 new state records. Important disjuncts include five Gulf Coastal Plain taxa and four taxa from northeastern states. Major plant community types supporting rare taxa are briefly described.
20433975|Seed source, absence of favorable microhabitat conditions, and presence of competitors, predators or allelochemicals are among the many factors that may limit the germination of viable seeds. We conducted six field, growth chamber, and veranda experiments to investigate the effects of seed source, physical or chemical presence of co-occurring species, and litter presence on germination percentages of the Florida scrub endemic Liatris ohlingerae. This perennial herb produces many seeds but recruits few seedlings. Germination percentages were similar when seeds from scrub and roadside habitats were sown into their own and the contrasting habitat. We found no evidence of chemical inhibition from a co-occurring terrestrial lichen or from the allelopathic Florida rosemary (Ceratiola ericoides), the dominant shrub in the habitat preferred by L. ohlingerae. However, germination was higher in shallow than in deep litter, and was suppressed by litter from oaks and pines compared to litter from Florida rosemary. In one experiment, higher levels of post-sowing seed predation closer to Florida rosemary shrubs limited germination. Germination of intact L. ohlingerae seeds generally exceeded 60% under a range of field and lab conditions. High field germination percentages within a few weeks of sowing suggest that L. ohlingerae does not maintain a sizeable persistent seed bank. Low seedling recruitment in this endangered plant is not likely caused by poor seed germination.
4033763|Vegetation present in three abandoned rice fields of the Winyah Bay Estuary at the Belle W. Baruch Institute for Marine Biology and Coastal Research, Georgetown County, South Carolina, observed in 1968 was compared with the vegetation present in 1987-91. Species composition in the three marshes changed little in 20 years. The index of similarity is high (greater than 0.80) for each site. There has been a decline in the total number of species present in the Airport and Alderly Marshes. Ninety-four percent of the species observed in 1968 and 1991 are indigenous to the United States. Phragmites australis, an aggressive rhizomatous perennial, is rapidly colonizing the Airport and Alderly Marshes.
4033183|Dioclea multiflora (T. & G.) Mohr is transferred to Galactia P. Br., sect. Odonia (Bertol.) Burkart, as Galactia mohlenbrockii nom. nov.
4033773|Cedar Key Scrub State Reserve is located along the Gulf coast of Florida just north of Cedar Key and encompasses 2,020 ha (4,988 acres). Along with scrub, which is situated along ancient sand dune ridges, several other plant communities are distinguished; these are flatwoods, marshes, hardwood swamps, cypress domes, salt marshes, and ruderal habitats. Collections of vascular plants and bryophytes were made from March 1990 to December 1992. A total of 449 vascular plant species was collected representing 103 families and 274 genera. There were also 55 bryophytes, 26 mosses, 28 liverworts, and 1 hornwort.
4032322|Henry A. Gleason states, of Monarda media (New Britton and Brown Illustrated Flora of the Northeastern United States and Adjacent Canada 3: 170), that "it has been suggested that the species has arisen by hybridization of M. didyma and M. fistulosa." Monarda was originally absent from Aton Forest, a research natural area in northwestern Connecticut. Studies beginning in 1947, involving the introduction of both putative parents and observations on five subsequently appearing volunteer clones each different but of intermediate characteristics, have clearly confirmed the hybrid nature of Monarda media.
4033075|As a consequence of active interest in the endangered species of Maryland and the northeastern United States in general, a critical appraisal and evaluation of the rare plants of the state was undertaken. This field and herbarium study has uncovered seven previously unreported indigenous taxa in the state, namely: Carex exilis, Cymophyllus fraseri, Arenaria stricta, Ceratophyllum echinatum, Potentilla tridentata, Viola rostrata, and Cornus rugosa. In addition, 47 new inclusions are suggested for monitoring on the Maryland list of endangered and threatened plants and 27 changes in status from the previously published list are indicated due to the increased locality data available. Herbarium vouchers are cited wherever necessary.
4032454|Butomus umbellatus L. is reported from the Olentangy and Scioto Rivers in central Ohio. Results of a river survey indicate it will probably spread downstream in the Scioto River and into other parts of the Mississippi watershed.
4032891|Keys, distribution maps, habitats, nomenclature, and notes are given for the Lamiaceae occurring naturally or naturalized in Mississippi.
4034188|Mountain Lake, Virginia is a unique, natural, oligotrophic subalpine ecosystem in the southern Appalachians. Its diatom flora, based on these and earlier studies of plankton tows and plankton settling chambers, was sparse with few species. By contrast, we found 66 diatom taxa (25 genera) in the recent sediments of Mountain Lake. Twelve of these 66 taxa are new records for the inland waters of Virginia. Hierarchical cluster analysis distinguishes seven diatom assemblages in this lake, divided between shallow (primarily pennate) and deep-water (primarily centric) assemblages. Shallow diatom assemblages are further defined by differences in epipelic, epiphytic, and possibly nutrient-sensitive forms. The ratio of planktonic to benthic (littoral) forms has proven useful as an indicator of water depths from sediment. These findings provide the first set of diatom data for future limnological and paleolimnological studies in Mountain Lake.
4032611| Leucotho walteri (Willd.) Melvin is a new combination based upon Carl Willdenow's Andromeda walteri, and replaces the commonly used name L. fontanesiana (Steud.) Sleum. This proposal results from inspection of Willdenow's original description and type material at the Berlin Herbarium as well as with descriptions and types of synonyms. Willdenow's combination appears to be the earliest valid, unencumbered name. Leucotho walteri occurs commonly in moist, acid cove forests in the southern Appalachians from southern Virginia to northern Georgia. 
4033361|Eight species of Phlox occur in the Ohio flora: P. divaricata, P. glaberrima var. triflora, P. latifolia, P. maculata, P. paniculata, P. pilosa, P. stolonifera, and P. subulata var. subulata and var. brittonii. Phlox glaberrima var. glaberrima (incl. var. melampyrifolia) and var. interior are excluded from the state's flora.
20433941|Twenty species of Desmodium and three species of Hylodesmum occur in Alabama. Of these, all are native except D. tortuosum, which is introduced from tropical America. The most common species are D. paniculatum and H. nudiflorum. The least common species are D. floridanum and D. fernaldii. Desmodium ochroleucum, which has a global rank of G2G3 and a state rank of S2, was known from seven extant populations from five counties in 2003. Results from this study identified four additional populations from Butler, Monroe, Montgomery, and Wilcox Counties, all of which are county records. Dichotomous keys and descriptions were generated based on morphological features of the vegetative and reproductive structures of the more than 1,000 specimens studied during this project. Data for the county-level distribution maps were compiled entirely from herbaria vouchers.
4033418|Cameron Parish is located in the southwesternmost corner of Louisiana. There are seven basic vegetational regions within the parish. These may be recognized by the vascular plant species composition and by distinguishing physiographic features. A survey of the vascular flora of the approximately 1,087,360 acres of Cameron Parish was conducted and includes collections made from September 1983 to April 1985. Specimens housed in several other Louisiana herbaria were also examined, as was pertinent literature. Both are included here. Names of the 1,103 species representing 142 families found during this study have been compiled in an annotated catalogue which includes references to the vegetational region in which they occur, habitat, frequency of occurrence, and whether each species is native or non-native. Six species new to the state were discovered during this survey.
23274390|North American Castanea consists of three morphologically variable species: Castanea dentata, Castanea pumila, and Castanea ozarkensis. Taxonomy of these species has been complicated by intermediate morphology, similarity in growth habit due, in part, to the chestnut blight, and putative naturally occurring hybridization in the southern Appalachians. The primary goal of this study was to determine if chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) distribution reflects the morphological variation observed in North American Castanea. To that end, we sequenced a single cpDNA gene region for 233 accessions collected from much of the range of the genus in North America. Once samples were grouped into haplotypes, we sequenced additional cpDNA regions to ensure that the observed haplotypic relationships were robust. We identified four main lineages and observed that for three of these, leaf and twig morphology are reliable predictors of haplotype identity (especially outside of the southern Appalachians). Haplotypes of the fourth lineage are shared among accessions of C. dentata and C. pumila, and trees with intermediate morphology. Geographic mapping of the haplotypes showed that they are largely found in separate geographic ranges but overlap in the southern Appalachians. While three clades closely correspond to the morphology of North American Castanea, it appears that the fourth lineage may have been recognized in the past as the hybrid taxon Castanea  neglecta because of its morphology that is intermediate between C. dentata and C. pumila.
4033315|A total of 52 groups of cypress knees consisting of 373 individuals was measured for height and water depth along the upper Suwannee River in Georgia and Florida and at Seashore State Park in Virginia. A highly significant positive correlation was found between the tallest cypress knee and greatest water depth of each group.
4032547|A few intergeneric and interspecific crosses were tried for studying the relationships within the subtribe Euphaseoleae and between the subtribes, Euphaseoleae and Cajaneae. Most of the crossings failed to produce normal seed. But the success of crossings between two species, one of Dolichos and one of Cajanus suggests a close relationship of the two genera of different subtribes.
27742922|Ericaceous shrubs can influence soil properties in many ecosystems. In this study, we examined how soil and forest floor properties vary among sites with different ericaceous evergreen shrub basal area in the southern Appalachian mountains. We randomly located plots along transects that included open understories and understories with varying amounts of Rhododendron maximum (rosebay rhododendron) and Kalmia latifolia (mountain laurel) at three sites. The three sites were a mid-elevation ridge, a low-elevation cove, and a high-elevation southwest-facing slope. Basal area of R. maximum was more correlated with soil properties of the forest floor than was K. latifolia. Increasing R. maximum basal area was correlated with increasing mass of lower quality litter and humus as indicated by higher C:N ratios. Moreover, this correlation supports our prediction that understory evergreen shrubs may have considerable effect on forest floor resource heterogeneity in mature stands.
4032604|Hancock County, in the northern panhandle of West Virginia, had only one moss representative in the West Virginia University bryophyte collections. The following list adds seven families, ten genera, and twelve species, all new county records, to those collections.
4032447|The seeds in two Atlantic Coast populations of Spartina alterniflora near Charleston, South Carolina and Stonington, Connecticut, were tested for viability with tetrazolium chloride. The percentage of viable seeds in both populations was low, 8% for the population near Charleston, South Carolina, and 12% for the population near Stonington, Connecticut.
20433948|Leitneria floridana is a rare woody species with a disjunct distribution in the southeastern and south-central United States. Although the distribution of L. floridana is well established, little is known about the comparative biology of its disjunct populations or the factors contributing to its rarity. We studied populations of L. floridana in Missouri, Arkansas, Texas, and Florida to characterize and compare population density, habitat, ecophysiology, morphology, and growth. Our results show that plants of the Missouri provenance are the most unique phenotypically, plants in Texas are the fastest growing, and plants in Arkansas seem particularly adapted to shade. We found that L. floridana grows in chemically and physically diverse soils and under a broad range of insolation. Soil moisture content appears to be the most important environmental factor governing the occurrence of L. floridana, with soil moisture and distribution density positively correlated.
4033029|Eight forest community types are defined and described for Reed Brake Research Natural Area, a 242 ha tract in the Hilly Coastal Plain of central Alabama. Community locations are related to topographic position, past logging history, slope direction, and slope steepness. The community types are: Longleaf Pine, Shortleaf Pine-Hardwoods, Southern Red Oak-Mixed Oak, Chestnut Oak, Loblolly Pine-Upland Hardwoods, Loblolly Pine-Lowland Hardwoods, Sweetgum-Yellow-Poplar, and Swamp Tupelo-Sweetbay. Due to fire protection, hardwoods are increasing in importance in the Longleaf Pine communities. An annotated floristic list is presented, with 235 vascular plant taxa referable to 75 families and 153 genera.
4032506|A mountain disjunct relict stand dominated by Tsuga canadensis and Fagus grandifolia was sampled by the Bitterlich variable plot method, and described using importance values based on basal area and density. The stand represents a continuum of species found at various elevations in the mountains, and appears to be an example of relatively undisturbed forest vegetation.
4033045|Observations made in late October, 1979, indicate that the wasp, Polistes fuscatus, and the locust borer, Megacyllene robiniae, serve as selective pollinators of goldenrod (Solidago canadensis). The pollination system is probably a complicated one involving mimicry between these (and perhaps other) insects and possible specialized roles in cross-versus self-pollination. A differential pollination of the fall weed flora (e.g., Solidago canadensis vs. Aster spp.) was evident, and is deserving of further investigation.
4033814|Euthamia (2 species, 3 varieties) and Solidago (29 species, 20 infraspecific taxa) are treated floristically as a contribution toward a flora of Virginia. Keys to genera, species, and infraspecific taxa are presented: descriptions, flowering time, and ecological data for each taxon are included. Geographical distributions are mapped, and species known to be rare in Virginia are indicated.
27742910|Giant cane (Arundinaria gigantea) is a native bamboo species that was once abundant in wetlands and riparian areas throughout the Southeastern United States. As part of an effort to identify competitive-dominant native species that can be utilized to maximize the restoration of riparian ecosystem functions/services and reduce non-native community invasibility, we transplanted cane clump divisions into areas either dominated by or recently cleared of Chinese privet (Ligustrum sinense), an invasive non-native shrub. We quatified cane survival and growth in the presence of privet and other plants including several common invasive non-natives. Removal of mature privet via a cut and paint application of glyphosate herbicide resulted in 100% mortality. Cane survival was high in both the high and low-light conditions provided by the opposing privet treatments. During the first year, there was little cane growth or expansion in either privet treatment. In the second year, cane growth and expansion in the Privet-Present treatment was also very low. However, during the second year in the Privet-Removed treatment, cane genets produced more ramets, increased in genet area, and developed ramets that were taller and thicker. Despite very high recruitment and cover of Japanese stilt grass (Microstegium vimineum) and other common invasive non-natives in the Privet-Removed treatment, transplanted cane genets continue to grow and expand. Our future research will continue to monitor the rate of cane growth as we investigate whether cane can compete with the common non-native invasive species that are dominant at this site and at other riparian ecosystems throughout the region.
4034042|The extent of forest, savanna, barrens, and prairie vegetation of Crawford County, Illinois, was mapped using the General Land Office survey notes of 1804-1821. Forest vegetation was the most extensive, covering 40.8% of the county, followed by prairie (34.2%), savanna (18.2%) and barrens (6.8%). Quercus alba L. (white oak) was the dominant forest species with an importance value (IV) of 60.6, followed by Q. velutina Lam. (black oak), Carya spp. (hickories), Ulmus spp. (elms), and Acer saccharinum L. (silver maple). In the savanna white oak again dominated (IV of 66.2), followed by black oak and hickories. The areas designated as barrens by the surveyors were dominated by white oak (IV of 78.8) followed by hickories, black oak, Acer saccharum Marsh. (sugar maple), and Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. (beech). Density (trees/ha) was 149.7, 18.2 and 29.7 for the forest, savanna and barren areas, respectively. Corylus americana Walt. (hazelnut) had the highest frequency for understory shrubs and was commonly associated with the forest-prairie interface and barrens.
4033563|Changes over the last 25 years in a Clingman's Dome fir-spruce stand are quantified. Balsam woolly adelgid induced mortality of Fraser fir has resulted in a 47% decrease in live basal area of fir. Fir remains the dominant species comprising 57% of the stand basal area, and exhibits abundant recruitment. Minor increases in red spruce density and basal area are evident despite reports of radial growth reductions in spruce at this site.
4033588|A descriptive study of the vascular flora and vegetation was conducted during 1987 on a 12-year-old contour surface-mined area, the 2.5 ha Trace Branch site, in Rockcastle County, Kentucky. An annotated list of vascular plants comprised 272 specific and infraspecific taxa (220 indigenous, 52 nonindigenous) from 63 families. These taxa consisted of 13 Pteridophyta, 4 Pinophyta, and 255 Magnoliophyta. The numerically most important plant families were the Asteraceae (43), Poaceae (36), Fabaceae (25), Cyperaceae (11), and Rosaceae (11). A total of 160 Rockcastle County distributional records were documented. Hedeoma hispidum Pursh, an endangered species in Kentucky, was present on the site. The plant communities were described on the bench, out-slope, highwall, access road, and seasonally wet habitats. Twenty-four herbaceous and woody species (10 indigenous, 14 nonindigenous) have persisted of the 30 initially planted by personnel of the Northeastern Forest Experiment Station, USDA Forest Service. Vegetation consists of a complex mosaic of natural and semi-natural plant communities on unplanted and planted areas on the mined site. Flora and vegetation are a result of invading native and naturalized species, planted native and exotic species, mine soils characteristics, and habitat diversity created by surface mining and reclamation in 1975.
4033176|The ecological life cycle of Nothoscordum bivalve (Liliaceae) in the middle Tennessee cedar glades is described. Vegetative growth and production of bulblets and seeds occur in spring and autumn; fewer plants in a population flower and set seeds in autumn than in spring. During much of the summer, the bulbs have neither roots nor shoots because there is a deficiency of soil moisture in the habitat for root and shoot growth. During winter both roots and shoots are present, but the shoots are prevented from emerging above the soil surface by low temperatures. Seeds are inherently dormant at maturity, and a stratification period is required to break dormancy. This requirement is fulfilled during winter, and germination occurs in early spring. In a laboratory study, nondormant seeds germinated best when incubated at a low temperature regime (15/6 C) in darkness. Although many seeds are produced, the predominant method of reproduction is by bulblets.
4033858| An open Lebanon limestone cedar glade complex with abundant Grindelia lanceolata was sampled to determine frequency and life form of associated vascular plant taxa, and density of reproductive and nonreproductive plants of G. lanceolata, a short-lived monocarpic perennial. Species with >50% frequency in the 85 1 m  1 m sample plots were G. lanceolata (100%), Sporobolus vaginiflorus (96.5%), the cedar glade endemic Dalea gattingeri (91.8%), Ruellia humilis (64.7%), Isanthus brachiatus (63.3%), and the cedar glade endemic Pediomelum subacaule (56.5%). Forty-four of the 54 taxa in the 85 plots had a frequency of 20%. More than 75% of the taxa are hemicryptophytes (40.7%) or therophytes (35.3%). Only 11.0% of the 4,164 plants of G. lanceolata counted had flowered. The G. lanceolata type is a vegetation unit of open cedar glades that has received little attention. 
4034316|Four small prairies located on Illinoian till in Macoupin County, Illinois were studied to determine their floristic composition. All of the prairies were less than 1 ha in size. Big bluestem (Andropogon gerardii) and little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium) were the dominant grasses, while common forbs included Echinacea pallida (pale coneflower), Ratibida pinnata (dropping coneflower), Solidago nemoralis (field goldenrod), and Dalea purpurea (purple prairie clover). The prairie flora consisted of 159 taxa in 45 families. Exotic species accounted for 14 species, while eight woody species were found. Perennial grasses accounted for about 25% of the total cover and importance value. One of the prairies is protected, the Roderick Prairie Nature Preserve.
4032946|Understory composition of a Populus deltoides plantation on the Mississippi River floodplain in Jefferson County, Mississippi is compared with data from a previous study conducted in nearby bottomland hardwood forest. Vegetation cover in the plantation was greater than that in the hardwoods. The plantation was dominated by early succession species and species with persistent root systems. Differences in species composition between the stands are probably due to higher light levels within the plantation, and to alteration of physiographic site by bulldozing, grading, and discing prior to planting.
4033486|A second-growth (60-80 years old) stand of red spruce in Pocahontas County, West Virginia was sampled to quantify stand composition and to compare size class distributions of red spruce with old-growth forests elsewhere. Stand composition was similar to other spruce forests in West Virginia. The size-class distribution of spruce in the second-growth stand was nearly bell-shaped, in contrast to distributions in old-growth forests which have shown an "inverse-J" pattern. The size-class structure of the second-growth forest is a result of a post-logging regeneration pulse.
4033105|Hedyotis salzmannii (alias Oldenlandia salzmannii) was discovered by J. R. Burkhalter growing wild near Pensacola, Escambia Co., Florida, and in adjacent Baldwin County, Alabama. This is the first record of this South American species in North America and it is presumed to be an accidental introduction.
4033406| Arenaria fontinalis (Short & Peter) Shinners (Caryophyllaceae) is endemic to wet limestone cliffs and ledges in north-central Kentucky and north-central Tennessee. Seeds are dispersed from mid-May to early July and germinate in September and October. Plants overwinter as semi-rosettes and flower and set seeds the following spring; thus, they behave as winter annuals. Seeds are dormant at maturity in spring, afterripen during summer and are nondormant by autumn. Seeds afterripened when alternately wetted and dried in an unheated greenhouse and in an incubator at 30/15C and when kept continuously wet in incubators at 15/6, 20/10 and 30/15C. Seeds did not afterripen when stored dry at ambient laboratory conditions. The peak of germination for seeds sown on soil in the unheated greenhouse in the springs of 1981, 1982 and 1983 occurred the following autumn, when mean daily maximum and minimum temperatures were about 25 and 15C, respectively. Germination of 1-3% of the seeds was delayed until the second autumn after sowing. Plants are day-neutral, and some of them will flower without vernalization. Plants kept in the unheated greenhouse during winter were much healthier and survived better than those kept in a heated greenhouse. 
4032904|The bryologically ordinary area bounded partly by the impounded Cumberland and Tennessee Rivers in Lyon and Trigg Counties, Kentucky, and Stewart County, Tennessee, and administered by the Tennessee Valley Authority as an outdoor recreation and conservation education area, was explored on 24 days of collecting. Ninety-five species of mosses and 20 species of hepatics were found. Relative abundance, substratum, and landscape type are tabulated for all species. Species associations, the distribution of species in relation to free water sources, and local richness of species are also presented. All species are annotated. A comparison of the species richness of the 170,000-acre area with that in comparable areas reveals a fair and partially distinctive showing of bryophytes in Land Between the Lakes in spite of the adverse factor of moisture shortage at and above ground level.
4033162|This paper examines the relationship between site quality and understory vegetation in the Appalachians of north-central West Virginia. Qualitative data from 80 randomly located plots were utilized to develop multiple regression models to predict site quality. The two approaches to site index prediction attempted, the mean index value concept and the presence-absence concept, explained 71 and 74 percent of the variation.
4033947|The algal community of a recently rehabilitated wetland in Barberton (Summit County), Ohio was examined three years after extensive dredging efforts. The wetland is divided into two, ca. 2 ha pools both fed by a 10 ha quarried lake. Four planktonic (open water) samples (1-2 m depth) and four metaphytic (tychoplanktonic and epiphytic) samples from each pool were collected biweekly from June 2 through August 14, the time of maximum productivity in the system. A total of 97 algal taxa were recorded. Algal abundance and biovolume estimates indicated that planktonic communities were dominated by chlorophytes. Cyanophytes were typically the second most abundant algae, followed by diatoms and euglenophytes. Chrysophytes, cryptophytes, and pyrrophytes were never prevalent and were absent on several sampling dates. Chlorophytes and cyanophytes were the dominant metaphytic algae, with chrysophytes, cryptophytes, and pyrrophytes poorly represented. The three dominant algal divisions had similar diversity values and the most abundant divisions had a greater than 90% similarity between the two sites.
4033199|Thirty-nine species are listed which are either previously unreported from cedar glades, or are unreported from the cedar glades of Georgia. Two of the species, Onosmodium molle var. occidentale and Carex crawei, appear to be new records for the state of Georgia.
4034339|Rockingham County, located in northwestern Virginia, is the third largest county in the state and is botanically rich and diverse. Over the past few decades, it has experienced unprecedented population growth and the loss of undisturbed habitat that accompanies such growth. This study updates the documented flora of Rockingham County, so that it may serve as a baseline for future studies, as well as provide new plant distribution information for the Flora of Virginia Project. During the course of this study, 425 numbers representing 316 species, subspecies, and varieties were collected. Fifty-two county records are reported. Five of these, Abies balsamea, Alnus incana ssp. rugosa, Calycanthus floridus var. glaucus, Scutellaria incana, and Penstemon hirsutus, are listed on the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation's (Division of Natural Heritage) Rare Vascular Plant List. Two others, Sanicula trifoliata and Helianthus hirsutus, are currently listed on the Virginia Vascular Plant Watch List.
4033527|The number of naturally occurring taxa of Vitis reported for North Carolina has ranged from five to nine, with seven being recognized in this treatment. Widespread natural hybridization was believed earlier to be responsible for this discrepancy; however, clinal variation was determined to be a complicating factor in the systematics of Vitis, and accounts for substantial morphological differences within species. Clines exist in two of North Carolina's grapes, V. aestivalis and V. cinerea. Pubescent V. aestivalis var. aestivalis of the Coastal Plain and Piedmont gradually becomes more glabrous and more glaucous on the abaxial leaf surfaces with increasing elevation. Mountain forms are treated as V. aestivalis var. argentifolia. Vitis cinerea has a similar clinal variation with leaves becoming more glabrous with elevational increase. Relatively glabrous plants of the Piedmont and mountains are V. cinerea var. baileyana and pubescent plants of the Coastal Plain are V. cinerea var. floridana. The morphology of V. vulpina, V. labrusca, and V. rotundifolia remains constant throughout the state. Differences in phenology and ecological preference are believed to promote reproductive isolation within subgenus Vitis. Barriers are not completely effective, however, since five putative hybrids were located in natural populations.
4034352|We used dendrochronology and vegetation sampling to examine climatic response and stand dynamics at two slope positions (350 m asl and 520 m asl) on No Business Mountain in the southwestern Piedmont of Virginia. Modeling plant response to climate change requires an understanding of the influence of small-scale environmental change. We sampled vegetation and developed pitch pine and Virginia pine tree-ring chronologies from the midslope and the mountaintop. A higher species richness and more hickory and black gum were found at the mountaintop. Significant correlations existed between tree-ring growth and temperature in the late fall and precipitation from the prior years' summer months; however, the same dendroclimatological response existed for both species at both slope postions. According to the dendroecological analysis, pitch pine entered the sites after agricultural abandonment in the early 1900s, and Virginia pine entered the sites following a release event in the 1940s. Recently, the pine stands on No Business Mountain have converted to an oak stand at midslope and an oak-hickory stand on the mountaintop. Microenvironmental differences between the two slope positions at No Business Mountain influenced vegetation composition but did not result in different dendroclimatological responses. These results imply that small scale environmental differences other than climate (soils and land use history, in this case) may be more important to vegetation distribution; therefore, it may not be necessary to include plant response to small-scale climatic changes in climate change-vegetation response models.
41301480|The factors affecting tree mortality have a significant impact on forest dynamics. Trees experience numerous biotic and abiotic stresses, and allocation of available resources can determine tree survival in different conditions. Recent studies support an intraspecific relationship between radial growth rate and longevity. This study investigates the existence of such a relationship in the American chestnut [Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh.] across a landscape in southwestern Virginia. Growth rate and age at death were measured on basal cross sections of recently dead American chestnuts. The relationships between growth rate and age at death and between growth rate and chestnut blight presence were analyzed. Average growth rate during the first 10 years of growth' and age at death were correlated; chestnuts with fast early growth died younger than chestnuts with slow early growth. Additionally, we found that the average growth rate during the last 10 years of growth was a significant predictor of blight infection at death. Our results provide further support for a link between radial growth rates and longevity within species. Our results also support previous findings that relate radial growth rates to blight susceptibility, possibly due to tradeoffs in resource allocation to growth versus defense. This study emphasizes the impact of life history on mortality in a tree hosting a pathogen and could inform forest management practices for chestnut conservation in the face of potential mortality from blight infection.
4033333|Vegetation and soils were sampled on nine transects along a topographic gradient from the center of Shoestring Savanna in the Green Swamp, Brunswick County, North Carolina, to its pocosin margin. Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) revealed that vegetation variation is higher along this topographic gradient than along any of its component soil factor gradients, and that species richness is highest at intermediate positions. Legumes are restricted to the center of the savanna while composites are concentrated midway along the gradient. Grasses and sedges are replaced by woody species near the pocosin ecotone, causing an abrupt change in physiognomy. Principal Components Analysis (PCA) revealed that the topographic gradient is one of increasing soil moisture and pH, and decreasing
4032839|Studies of plant succession on three abandoned Tennessee Valley Authority "fly ash pits" in Middle Tennessee were made using the quadrat method of sampling. The pits varied in age from 6 months to 8 years. Dominants occurred in the following sequence: pit I (6 months), Polygonum pensylvanicum and Paspalum pubiflorum, with phenotypic dominants being Erigeron canadensis and Bromus inermis; pit II (3 years), Bromus inermis and Pyrrhopappus carolinianus, with phenotypic dominants being Bromus inermis, Andropogon virginicus, and Populus deltoides; pit III (8 years), Solidago spp. and Melilotus alba, with the phenotypic dominants being the two former taxa plus Populus deltoides, Salix interior, and Salix nigra. Since no studies of this specific nature have been carried out in the past, comparisons of vegetational responses are difficult to make. The data on plant succession recorded on the "fly ash pits" is considerably different from past studies on abandoned cropland in Middle Tennessee and, for that matter, in surrounding states.
4033734|An oak forest in southwestern Virginia that had been sampled in 1971 was resampled in 1991. The stand was divided into an upper, drier part and a lower, more mesic part. Comparisons were made in community composition between years and between the two parts of the stand. Overall density of the dominants, scarlet oak and chestnut oak declined and basal area increased, thus indicating maturing of the community. Most notable changes over 20 years were: large increases in trees and saplings of black gum and American chestnut; Smilax rotundifolia, virtually absent in 1971, increased 16-fold in the upper stand; chinquapin of sapling size increased markedly in upper and lower stands; importance of Virginia pine increased somewhat in the upper stand, but declined to zero in the lower stand; black locust disappeared from both parts of the stand. Density of seedlings and shrubs remained rather constant as did cover % of herbs. Saplings and seedlings of chestnut oak and scarlet oak are moderately to very abundant, so these species should remain dominant for the life of the community.
4032477|The largest stand of Chamaecyparis thyoides in the southwest portion of its range was sampled by the quarter method and importance values obtained for the trees and saplings. Shrubs, topographic and edaphic factors were also observed. These findings were compared with those of stands from other parts of the range of white-cedar.
4033749|Flowering individuals are rare in populations of false hellebore in Illinois. In the fall of 1993, however, flowering was observed in 16 of 31 populations from east-central Illinois. Of the 96 flowering individuals found, 70 produced fruits. Seed production was low; 75% of the capsules produced 0-3 seeds.
4032327|Dryopteris celsa (Log fern) and related species in Louisiana are discussed. Dryopteris celsa is reported for the first time from Louisiana and a list of its most common associates is included.
4033392|Vaccinium formosum H. C. Andrews, a name based on an illustration with analysis of essential characters, should have priority over V. australe Small.
4032694|The red-flowered pitcher plant Sarracenia rubra Walt. is widely distributed throughout the southeastern United States, occurring in small, scattered stands. In many parts of the range, populations and population groups become markedly disjunct and there is considerable morphologic variation among these disjuncts. These variants have been subject to taxonomic dispute and morphologic, geographic and some biochemical studies suggest that perhaps the taxon should best be considered as an evolutionary superspecies composed of at least five semispecies, since there is insufficient discontinuity of characters among these groups to consider any as separate species. The International Code makes no provision for the concept of semispecies, and we feel that subspecies designation would be acceptable for those variants that have already suffered taxonomic confusion. We would accept the recent new combination S. rubra Walt. ssp. jonesii (Wherry) Wherry for the populations of western Carolina, and propose reduction of one recently described set of variants from species with two subspecies, to subspecies level: S. rubra Walt. ssp. alabamensis (Case and Case) Schnell comb. nov., and S. rubra Walt. ssp. wherryi (Case and Case) Schnell comb. nov.
23274394|Harperella (Harperella nodosum) is a federally endangered plant with 26 known sites in the southeastern United States. Experiments in the greenhouse and observations in the wild demonstrated that harperella is an annual plant and its seeds can germinate immediately after seed maturation under warm-weather conditions in late summer. Harperella was observed to utilize two complementary reproductive strategies as important adaptations to survival in a frequently flooded, semiaquatic habitat, depending on flooding frequency and amplitude: (a) sexual reproduction during low-water years involving flowering and seed production and (b) asexual reproduction during high-water years involving viability of ramets produced at the nodes.
4032541|The following recently discovered vascular plants are new records for the State of West Virginia, U. S. A.: Calamagrostis neglecta, Muhlenbergia brachyphylla, Eleocharis palustris, var. major, Carex straminea, Lechea villosa, Cicuta bulbifera, Verbena scabra, Viburnum rufidulum, Aster junciformis, Lactuca hirsuta, var. sanguinea, and Prenanthes crepidinea. This is a compilation of vascular plants recently discovered and not listed in "The Flora of West Virginia" by Strausbaugh and Core, 1952-1970. The nomenclature used and sequence followed are that employed by M. L. Fernald in the 8th Edition of Gray's Manual, 1950 edition.
4032707| A linear displacement transducer was used to measure the leaf thickness of shade leaves collected from trees growing in metropolitan Lexington, Kentucky. Leaf thickness measurements are presented for 52 species which represent 35 genera. Leaf thickness varied from 140.5m in Alnus incana to 515.6m in Ilex opaca. There was considerable variation among species of the same genera. 
4034315|Keys and descriptions are presented for the Molluginaceae and the Aizoaceae, sensu stricto, of the southeastern United States. Two genera and four species (1 native) are documented for Molluginaceae; for the Aizoaceae, sensu stricto, seven genera and ten species (3 native) are documented. Two taxa formerly attributed to either the Aizoaceae, sensu lato, or Molluginaceae (Gisekia pharnacioides and Geocarpon minimum) are excluded from the Molluginaceae and Aizoaceae, sensu stricto, but are described herein and included in the keys for the purpose of cross-reference and historical perspective. An additional six species (one species in Molluginaceae and five species in three genera of Aizoaceae, sensu stricto) which occur in areas adjacent to the southeastern states are also included.
4033835|Echinacea tennesseensis (Beadle) Small is a federally endangered vascular plant species endemic to the limestone cedar glades of the Central Basin of Tennessee. The vegetation associated with each of the five known populations of E. tennesseensis was sampled in 1987, and its population demographics were analyzed based on observations of 492 marked individuals over two years. Although vegetative cover and species' frequency varied among sites, Echinacea tennesseensis is an important component of the vegetation at all five sites, and a dominant at three sites. The vegetation of four sites is relatively similar, but the fifth site differs in species composition and reflects a history of human disturbance. In both growing seasons mortality was highest among the smallest plants. A critical stage of growth (>30 cm total leaf length) at which survivability increases was identified. Plants that have not reached this stage have only a 50% chance of surviving an extreme summer drought such as that of 1988. Nearly half of the plants that produced flowers in 1987 did not produce flowers in the exceedingly dry summer of 1988; however, of these, 68% flowered in 1989. In addition, mortality was higher in year 1 (1987-88) than in year 2 (1988-89). These differences between years are attributable to the higher rainfall recorded during the 1989 growing season, and they demonstrate that flowering is sporadic and most likely dependent on growing season rainfall.
4032758|Abandonment of the Benson Channel by the Kentucky River during the Pliocene created an extensive area of flat, poorly-drained land near Alton, Anderson County, Kentucky. The forest presently occupying the Benson Channel in the vicinity of Alton is unlike any previously reported for the Inner Blue Grass Region, and is strikingly similar to the forests of the Illinoian till plains of southwestern Ohio. The two dominant tree species are Acer rubrum and Quercus palustris. Important associated trees include Fagus grandifolia, Liquidambar styraciflua, Q. alba, Q. bicolor, Q. velutina, Nyssa sylvatica, and Fraxinus americana. The shrub and herb composition reflects the hydro-mesophytic nature of the forest and environs. The spotted salamander, Ambystoma maculatum, is reported for the first time for the Inner Blue Grass Region.
20433936|We report the results of an inventory of the vascular plants at the J.T. Nickel Family Nature and Wildlife Preserve in Cherokee County, Oklahoma. We collected a total of 597 taxa in 358 genera and 118 families. The greatest number of species were from Asteraceae (87), Poaceae (66), and Fabaceae (44). Ninety-one species of woody plants were present. Seventy-two non-native species were present representing 12.1% of the flora. Species present that are tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were Brachyelytrum erectum, Brasenia schreberi, Carex cephalophora, C. oklahomensis, C. oxylepis, Clematis virginiana, Cypripedium parviflorum var. parviflorum, Impatiens pallida, Iris cristata, Phaseolus polystachios, Physocarpus opulifolius var. intermedius, Silene regia, and Tradescantia ernestiana. This study reports the first records for Glyceria acutiflora and Microstegium vimineum (Poaceae) from Oklahoma.
4034272|We report a new Sabal minor county record for North Carolina that represents the furthest known northern population of the largely tropical family Arecaceae in eastern North America. We give a brief introduction to Sabal and explain why this S. minor population may represent a northward range expansion in response to climate warming in northeast North Carolina. Finally, we discuss the usefulness of both historical herbarium specimens and modern day botanical collections to research on climate change and plant population responses.
4032329|A survey of the vascular flora of Crittenden County Arkansas, located on the eastern border of Arkansas across the Mississippi River from Memphis, Tennessee, and intensely cultivated, revealed a total of 523 species and 93 families. The largest family was the Gramineae with 40 genera and 79 species; next was the Compositae with 31 genera and 45 species. The Cyperaceae was third with 6 genera and 32 species, followed by the Fabaceae with 16 genera and 30 species.
4032729|In a floristic survey of Sumter National Forest, 10 new South Carolina records, and many Oconee Co. records, were made, and are here reported.
4033771|The results of two floristic studies of King George County, Virginia, are combined into an annotated checklist. Field work was initiated in 1983-84 with a study of Caledon Natural Area, a 2,500-acre tract with 3.5 miles of frontage on the Potomac River. Collecting resumed in 1991 and 1992 to include other portions of the county drained by the Potomac River. The study area contains a wide variety of habitats including dry upland woods, mesic ravines, low elevation river flats, beaches, swamps, marshes, and creeks; creeks and marshes include both brackish and freshwater environments. The Potomac River watershed of King George County harbors a diverse assemblage of plants; the checklist includes documentation for 918 species of vascular plants classified in 466 genera and 130 families. This total includes 418 species that at the time of collection were the first records of occurrence in King George County.
4034132|Keys and descriptions are presented for the two genera and 33 taxa of the Violaceae of the southeastern United States. Hybanthus is represented by one species. Viola is represented by 25 species, two additional subspecies, and five varieties. In addition to taxonomic descriptions and habitat information, the range of each species within the southeast as well as adjacent states and beyond is provided. A cross referencing of nomenclature with pertinent floras is included.
4032840|Studies on the vascular flora of the northwestern Highland Rim of Middle Tennessee have resulted in several additions to the State flora and numerous range extensions within the State. An annotated list includes 16 new or verified taxa for the State, 47 range extensions within the State, and 6 county records for species rarely found in Tennessee.
27742923|During the period of 2003 to 2008, samples for isolation of dictyostelid cellular slime molds (dictyostelids) were collected from 17 localities throughout the state of Arkansas. The localities sampled included at least two examples in each of the six natural regions (Arkansas River Valley, Ozark Plateau, Ouachita Mountains, Gulf Coastal Plain, Crowley's Ridge and Mississippi Alluvial Plain) recognized for the State. The 167 samples collected from the 17 localities yielded a total of 2,082 individual clones representing 13 different species plus one form that could not be assigned to any described species. Six of the species recovered are reported from Arkansas for the first time, bringing the total number known from the State to 16. Polysphondylium pallidum was by far the most abundant species, comprising almost 50% of all isolates. Three other species (Dictyostelium minutum, P. violaceum and D. purpureum) made up approximately 30% of all remaining isolates, and the nine other species recovered were uncommon to rare. Two isolates of what appears to be Dictyostelium rhizopodium, a species in which the sorocarps have crampon bases, represent one of the northernmost known occurrences of a dictyostelid with this feature, which is characteristically found in species associated with tropical and subtropical regions of the world. Two species (D. caveatum and D. rosarium) reported previously from Arkansas were not isolated in the present study.
4033938|The vascular flora of Cove Point Marsh, a barrier wetland in Calvert County, Maryland, was surveyed from April 1996 to October 1997. A total of 304 species representing 305 varieties and one hybrid from 208 genera in 90 families were recorded from at least 10 community alliances in the study site. Of the 304 vascular taxa collected, 192 were principally associated with the wetland and 112 were primarily associated with the barrier dune. Of these, only 3.1% of the wetland taxa but 35.7% of the barrier dune/beach taxa were not native to Maryland. At least 21 taxa were common to both the wetland and barrier dune habitats. Thirteen of the documented taxa were state listed as threatened or endangered and two of the plant community alliances were first reports for Maryland.
4032772|Phoradendron flavescens (Pursh) Nutt. is found on seven species of trees in south Mississippi; the most common host is the water oak, Quercus nigra. Un-disturbed forests with closed canopies have significantly fewer infected trees than disturbed forests with open canopies. Initial infection of an individual water oak generally occurs on the distal portion of the branches, followed by multiple infection of the same and other inner or proximal branch portions. Branch segments between infection sites die sequentially from the distal branch portion inward to the tree trunk. Isolated trees are quickly killed. Tree death occurs when most of the outer branches are pruned. The susceptibility of water oaks to infection is partially attributed to the very thin bark of branches and trunk; however, the high incidence of infection cannot be explained.
4033980|Species composition and vegetation-environment relationships are described for Linville Gorge Wilderness, a rugged landscape straddling the Blue Ridge escarpment of the southern Appalachian Mountains. A hierarchical classification is presented for 28 community types, which span eight broad vegetation classes. Vegetation classes associated with infertile conditions are most widespread. Thermic Oak-Pine Forests dominate ridgelines and upper-slopes. Acidic Cove and Slope Forests are prominent on sheltered, mid- and lower-slopes. Montane Oak Forests and Rich Cove and Slope Forests are present, but are limited in distribution. The atypical concentrations of the latter class on high-elevation ridgelines results from underlying nutrient-rich bedrock. Vegetation composition is most strongly associated with soil nutrients, soil texture, and topographic position. The combination of rugged topography, infertile soils, relatively low annual rainfall levels, and lack of anthropogenic disturbance is responsible for the unusual combination of southern Appalachian vegetation communities that characterize Linville Gorge Wilderness.
4033014|An examination of the native vascular plant flora of Maryland during 1978 and 1979 as part of a review for the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program disclosed 237 different plants which could be considered rare or endangered in the State. This represents approximately ten percent of the native flora of Maryland. The present paper discusses 74 species, subspecies and varieties of Maryland plants which represent new state records or are plants of extreme rareness. Several species suggested by the Fish and Wildlife Service occur in Maryland, namely Trillium pusillum var. virginianum (E), Alnus maritima (T), Cardamine longii (T), Habenaria flava (T), H. peramoena (T), Juncus caesariensis (T), Lilium grayi (T), Micranthemum micranthemoides (T), and Ptilimnium fluviatile (T). Other recommended species were found in Maryland but were not considered to be in Maryland by the Fish and Wildlife Service at the time; these include such species as Bacopa stragula (E), Isotria medeoloides (E), Lechea maritima var. virginica (E), Panicum aculeatum (T), and Prunus allegheniensis (T). In addition to these species, the Endangered Species Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, and others, suggested additional species be considered as endangered or threatened. For Maryland, these proposed species were Hydrastis canadensis (T), Panax quinquefolium (T), Schwalbea americana (T), and Sida hermaphrodita (no designation as to status proposed). Of the many suggested plants, several can be excluded from Maryland: Alnus maritima (locally common, not threatened); Lilium grayi (not found in Maryland); Bacopa stragula (not a valid species, a synonym of the tropical B. innominata); Lechea maritima var. virginica (locally common and not threatened); Panicum aculeatum (a synonym of the widespread Dichanthelium scabriusculum); and Sida hermaphrodita (local and declining, but populations still widespread). Studies on the Maryland flora supported the proposed listing of the remaining plants as endangered or threatened. Two other plants are now suggested for consideration by the Fish and Wildlife Service: Aster depauperatus, a serpentine endemic of Maryland and Pennsylvania, and Bidens bidentoides var. mariana, a tidal flat endemic restricted to Maryland. Nomenclaturally, Habenaria flava is better considered a member of the genus Platanthera, as is H. peramoena, and we propose to recommend both variants of P. flava, the southern var. flava and the northern var. herbiola, to the Service. We prefer to recognize Hemianthus as distinct from Micranthemum and retain M. micranthemoides in Hemianthus. Errors in author citations noted during the present study include Scleria minor W. Stone, not "(Britton) W. Stone," and Aster depauperatus Fernald, not "(T. C. Porter) Fernald." New combinations include Trillium pusillum var. texanum (Buckley) Reveal & Broome, Salix exigua ssp. interior var. angustissima (Andress.) Reveal & Broome, Ptilimnium fluviatile var. viviparum (Rose) Reveal & Broome, Phlox glaberrima var. triflora (Michx.) Reveal & Broome, and Schwalbea americana var. australis (Pennell) Reveal & Broome.
27742913|The drastic loss of giant cane (Arundinaria gigantea) -dominated communities (canebrakes) in southeastern North America has spurred great interest in habitat restoration. We report on two giant cane restoration studies that investigate the effects of collection source, rhizome propagule morphological characteristics and type (greenhouse-grown containerized stock plants or bare rhizomes), site, and time on genet survival and growth. Survival over the two studies (after three and five years) differed by propagule collection source, was marginally greater when planting older containerized stock, and varied between sites. Although field survival tended to be somewhat greater for greenhouse-grown containerized stock in comparison to bare rhizomes, overall survival was similar for both stock types when accounting for mortality of planted rhizomes in the greenhouse. The number of culms, their height, and spread of the genets increased over time and differed by planting stock type in each study. At Becca's Tract, cane genet growth ranged from a mean of 1.4  0.1 culms that were 41.7  1.8 cm tall with essentially no spread after the first growing season to a mean of 80.6  7.6 culms that were 99.8  2.8 cm tall with a spread of 212.1  19.6 cm after five years. Giant cane rhizome sections initially grown in a greenhouse or planted directly in the field can be used to establish canebrakes in a framework that is operationally feasible for large-scale restoration.
4034145|Managing rare endemic plants often requires an understanding of their reproductive ecology. We investigated pollination biology, seed set, seed dispersal, and seedling recruitment of Rudbeckia auriculata (Asteraceae), a species endemic to the Southeastern United States. Based on observations of pollinator abundance and pollen load on floral visitors, the most likely pollinators are primarily native bees, particularly Andrena aliciae Robertson in medium and large populations of R. auriculata, and Halictids in small populations. Seed set varied from 0.24% to 16.9% in small populations (<40 flowering stems) and from 26.5% to 31.4% in medium (40-999 flowering stems) and large (1000+ flowering stems) populations, with significantly lower seed set in the small populations. Exclusion of visitors from inflorescences showed that, like many members of the Asteraceae, R. auriculata is probably self-incompatible. Seed dispersal appears to be highly localized and dependent upon gravity. Seedling recruitment is poor, particularly when the soil is covered with litter or when the species is in competition with others.
4033489|A white-flowered form of Pinguicula lutea Walt. is described as f. alba Folkerts and Freeman. Thus far, the form is known only from the Appalachicola region, Liberty County, Florida.
4032924|Keys, distribution maps, references, nomenclature, and notes are given for the Brassicaceae occurring naturally or naturalized in Mississippi. Genera included are: Alyssum, Arabis, Arabidopsis, Armoracia, Barbarea, Brassica, Cakile, Capsella, Cardamine, Conringia, Coronopus, Dentaria, Descurainia, Draba, Erysimum, Lepidium, Lesquerella, Lobularia, Nasturtium, Raphanus, Rorippa, Sibara, Sisymbrium, Thlaspi.
41301577|The largest Maryland population of the federally threatened tidal freshwater wetlands legume, Aeschynomene virginica (Sensitive Joint-vetch), is comprised of two subpopulations in the Manokin River watershed. To provide baseline data fundamental to understanding annual fluctuations and long-term trends, annual censuses began in 1991 and 1994 for Taylor Branch and Manokin River subpopulations, respectively, and continued through 2009. In addition, distributional limits, phenology, average plant height, associated plant species, and muskrat activity were recorded to better understand plant and habitat characteristics. Large annual fluctuations in size were common to both subpopulations. The Manokin River subpopulation (2 km in extent) averaged 1,867  268 plants (n = 16), ranged from 715-4,394 plants, and inhabited marshes (56%) and banks (44%). Subpopulation size increased significantly during the survey period. June rainfall may have contributed to a tripling in subpopulation size from 2005 to 2009, but a significant increase from 1994-2006 was related to some undetermined environmental factor. The Taylor Branch subpopulation (0.6 km in extent) averaged 400  122 plants (n = 18), ranged from 42-1,797 plants, occurred almost solely in marshes, and did not change significantly in size over the study period. Seed germination occurred in late April, shoot growth through July, and flowering and fruiting peaked by mid-August and early October, respectively. Muskrat effects were negligible for both subpopulations. Although continued subpopulation monitoring is important, sediment accretion and wetland hydrology studies are needed to predict long-term viability of A. virginica in the Manokin River watershed.
4032487|Included are notes on nomenclature and previous United States reports of Bacopa repens (Swartz) Wettstein; field and laboratory observations on habitat, associates, and morphology; and citation of United States collections of the species.
4033522|The ecotone between a hardwood forest and a Rhododendron catawbiense heath bald was investigated at Craggy Gardens, North Carolina. Vegetation analysis indicates that an almost pure stand of beech trees (Fagus grandifolia) is encroaching on the heath community on the southeastern slope of Craggy Flats. The rate of invasion of beech is estimated to be 3 meters per year. At this rate, it can be predicted that beech forest will replace the heath bald in 50-75 years. This study contradicts the hypothesis that high elevation heath balds dominated by Rhododendron catawbiense represent stable climax communities. Invasion may be facilitated by some process of interference between beech and rhododendron. At the contact zone of these two communities, many rhododendron shrubs directly below beech trees were dying and showed yellowing of leaves and reduced twig growth. Reproduction of beech is occurring by means of root sprouts. As beech roots move into the rhododendron community, rhododendron degenerates in the contact zone, opening the area to young developing beech sprouts.
4033460|Vegetation response after natural fire was investigated in the Georgia Sea Islands. Nearly all above-ground stems were killed in the scrub and marsh communities. Within two years burned marshes strongly resembled unburned marshes in vegetation cover and species diversity. In the first year after burning, diversity increased in freshwater cordgrass (Spartina bakeri) marsh, but then fell again as water levels rose. By the second year, vegetation cover had returned to pre-burn levels. Sawgrass (Cladium jamaicense) marsh was lower in diversity and slower to return to potential pre-burn cover. Burned scrub regenerated into extremely dense vegetation and exceeded 2 m in height two years after the fire. Regrowth was almost exclusively woody. Mature hardwoods suffered high mortality only where the trees bordered the more flammable scrub or dense pine. Mature individuals of Pinus palustris, P. serotina, and P. taeda survived all but the most severe burns. With the exception of pine species, the proportion of different species in post-fire regrowth was generally similar to pre-fire stand composition. With a potential fire rotation of 23 years or less, both oak and pine scrub communities on Cumberland Island are probably pyric dis-climaxes.
4034204|We described overstory tree age and composition among hemlock stands that varied in physiographic structure at Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area located in northeastern Pennsylvania and northwestern New Jersey. Hemlock stands were comprised primarily of eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis), chestnut oak (Quercus prinus), black birch (Betula lenta), Eastern white pine (Pinus strobus), and white oak (Quercus alba). Forest stands characterized by steep slopes and high gradients supported the highest basal area of hemlock. Trees within hemlock stands ranged in age from 68.0-148.0 years. These data are valuable because as eastern hemlocks decline throughout the mid-Atlantic region of the United States due to infestation of the exotic insect pest, the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae), hardwood species will likely become more prominent in these stands in the future. The documentation and description of tree composition of a threatened ecosystem prior to its decline is important for future restoration efforts and potential tree replacement in forest stands.
4033512|The vegetation in two southern Appalachian boulderfields in north Georgia was analyzed and compared with that of a mesic, non-bouldered cove. Importance values were obtained for tree and shrub species from
4032441|The marshes of the Cooper River Estuary are categorized as three units: salt marsh, brackish marsh, and freshwater marsh. The vegetation of these marshes was sampled by means of the line intercept method (Canfield 1941) during July, 1971. A surveyor's transit was used to determine the elevation range of each species above the species occupying the lowest portion of the marsh for 23 stations. Soil samples were taken and analyzed for chlorinity and salinity. Zonation of vegetation was most pronounced and distinct in salt marshes and less pronounced and less distinct in the less saline areas. Salinity limits the brackish and freshwater taxa from the more saline lower reaches of the river. Several taxa occupying the lowest zone of the three marshes are well adapted to long periods of submergence.
4032587|Several abiotic factors are considered in an attempt to explain the locally discontinuous distribution of Draba ramosissima in Kentucky.
4033458|Forest vegetation of the Obed River gorge system in the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee was sampled using 327 0.04 ha plots. Environmental variables were recorded for each of the plots. Cluster analysis using a minimum information technique (MINFO) and canopy importance values was used to classify ten plant community types: river birch, beech-tulip poplar, tulip poplar, white oak, hemlock, sweet birch-hemlock-chestnut oak, chestnut oak-white oak, white pine-white oak-chestnut oak, white oak-scarlet oak, and Virginia pine types. Canopy basal area ranged from
4034291|Hybridization may increase the risk of extinction for some rare and endangered plant species, either by increasing the rate of random genetic drift affecting populations or by introgression-mediated genetic assimilation. The former may occur when hybrids are less fit than nonhybrids and backcrossing would be less likely to occur, the latter may occur when hybrids are as fit, or fitter, than parents, and backcrossing is fairly common. To assess the risk of extinction by hybridization one must assess whether hybridization is actually occurring, and, if so, whether the hybrids are sterile, or are backcrossing. We analyzed one population each of the rare Liatris oligocephala and L. cylindracea and seven field-identified hybrids for ribosomal DNA and chloroplast DNA markers, and morphological characteristics to make a preliminary determination of the potential for L. oligocephala extinction via hybridization. We found unequivocal evidence that the two species are hybridizing, but no unequivocal evidence of backcrossing.
41819463|Within a successional context, the vegetation associated with the cedar glade ecosystem in middle Tennessee develops from bare limestone bedrock to subclimax redcedar, preclimax oak-hickory, and climax mixed hardwood forests. Studies on the composition and structure of forests associated with cedar glade-forming limestones (Lebanon, Ridley) are rare. We sampled the canopy and understory of six forest stands in middle Tennessee on these limestones. Observed number of canopy species was 14-24 across stands; estimated richness was greater by 1-3 species (bootstrap) or 3-6 species (first-order jackknife) than observed richness. With the exception of Ailanthus altissima in one stand, all other canopy species were native. Juniperus virginiana, Fraxinus americana, Carya ovata, and Quercus muehlenbergii were primary canopy components in 4 or 6 stands, and C. glabra, Q. shumardii, Ulmus alata, F. quadrangulata, Q. alba, and Q. velutina in 2-3 stands. When we included stands from a previously published study (most on the non-glade Carters Limestone) with our data, a principal components analysis identified three groups with the axes approximating a moisturebedrock gradient and a time-successional gradient. An examination of regeneration in our stands predicts that (1) mesophytes and/or fire-sensitive species (Acer saccharum, Fraxinus spp., Celtis spp.) will increase and (2) xerophytes and/or fire-adapted species (Quercus spp., Carya spp.) will decrease. Altogether, our results strongly suggest that the oak-hickory stage shown in successional outlines of vegetation development associated with the cedar glade ecosystem may not occur in its current state in the future.
4032512|Three species of Helianthemum are recognized in Virginia. A proposed variety is not recognized. Distribution and characters of the species are discussed.
4034217|As part of a mitigation plan, we transplanted a clone of the endangered Michaux's sumac (Rhus michauxii) from an imperiled site to two lightly-forested sites. Using hand trowels, we removed 96 above-ground shoots with adjacent roots and 120 m of connecting root material. We wanted to determine whether Michaux's sumac can be successfully transplanted both from above-ground shoots with roots and from roots-only, whether direct out-planting or recovery in a greenhouse prior to out-planting provided higher survivorship, and whether transplanting is viable for mitigation. Planting above-ground shoots with roots and roots-only gave similar first-year survivorship both in the forest and in the greenhouse. Allowing plants to recover in a greenhouse prior to out-planting gave higher survivorship after one year. After 7-8 years, the number of above-ground shoots at the two sites increased to 203 and 262, an increase of 37 and 219% respectively, indicating that transplanting is a viable option for mitigation.
4034089|Lotus unifoliatus var. helleri (Carolina Birdsfoot Trefoil), is a candidate rare taxon of the Piedmont in North Carolina. The distribution of individuals in a Rowan County population was clumped. The abundance of individuals, their height, cover, and fruit production were negatively related with occurrences of Dichanthelium scoparium, Panicum anceps, and Liquidambar styraciflua. A field experiment indicated no significant effect of opening size in grassy vegetation on trefoil seed germination, survivorship, average height, and fruit production. A field clipping study suggested that roadside mowing prior to flower initiation may not reduce survivorship or fruit production to levels below those of unmowed plants.
4032354|Percentage composition figures are given for the major phytoplankton components in Atlantic waters over the continental shelf of SE United States, the Gulf Stream, and the Sargasso Sea to depths of 1000 m.
41301580|Disturbance regimes of many hardwood forests of the eastern United States in the complex stage of development are characterized by localized canopy disturbance events that change fine-scale biophysical conditions. Recently, research has demonstrated the importance of gap-scale disturbance processes in secondary hardwood stands of the southern Appalachian Highlands. However, information on canopy disturbance patterns during early developmental stages is required from the broader geographic region for a comprehensive understanding of stand dynamics. The goal of this study was to reconstruct canopy disturbance history for mixed hardwood stands on the Highland Rim of Alabama to elucidate disturbance patterns during early development. We analyzed radial growth from 46 Quercus individuals to reconstruct canopy disturbance history. The majority (67%) of the trees analyzed exhibited release events. In total, 42 releases were detected and some trees experienced multiple events. Of these releases, 28 (67%) were classed as minor and 14 (33%) were classed as major. Mean release duration was 4.00 years  0.21 (SE) and the longest release was sustained for eight years. Based on mean release duration, we speculate that most of the canopy gaps were filled by lateral crown expansion rather than subcanopy height growth. We did not document any forest-wide disturbance events; a pattern that may be a regional phenomenon or may be related to forest age. Canopy disturbances became common after ca. 40 years of development. We propose that the frequency of canopy gaps will decrease and the size and magnitude of individual gaps will increase as the stands mature.
4032948|Seedling density of a 1980 beech cohort was lowest in depressions and highest on well-drained microsites in a mature Southern Mixed Hardwood forest in southeast Texas. In addition, density declined with distance from mature beech trees. Litter depth, percent moisture, and light intensity had no effect on initial seedling density. Survivorship was positively related to distance from a beech tree, but was not significantly related to any other environmental variables, or to initial density. However, there appeared to be a trend towards lower survivorship on the drier microsites. In addition, the summer drought in 1980 resulted in lower survivorship than was experienced by a 1976 cohort. Final density was similar to initial density in its relationship to topography and distance from parent tree. The fact that both microtopography and distance affect initial seedling density suggests that germination rate and seed distribution are the primary determinants of both the size and distribution of the seedling population. Favorable climate in the year of germination also contributes greatly to the success of a particular cohort.
4033528|Leaf lobation patterns of mulberry (Morus L.) shrubs and trees were studied in 1984 and 1985 at Bowling Green, Kentucky. The number of divisions (sinuses) were counted to a maximum of five per leaf. For adult trees, entire leaves were most frequent; single division leaves were second most frequent. For shrubs, entire leaves and leaves with four or five divisions occurred at approximately equal frequencies and at greater frequencies than the other classes. Leaf lobation distributions were significantly influenced by trees, years, and tree x year interactions. Linear correlation coefficients (r) between leaf position (numbered from tip of branch toward base) and number of lobes were positive and highly significant. Thus, leaf pattern became simpler with advanced stages of maturity.
4033510|At Big Run Bog, a Sphagnum-dominated wetland in the Appalachian Mountains of West Virginia, annual aboveground net primary production (NPP) was estimated to be
4033321|Tomanthera auriculata (Michx.) Raf., an annual member of the Scrophulariaceae, is a rare species reported to be hemiparasitic. The species is currently under review by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for possible listing as a federally threatened or endangered species. In greenhouse culture two of eight potential host species (Rudbeckia fulgida Ait. and Helianthus occidentalis Riddell) proved to be suitable hosts; Tomanthera auriculata seedlings in flats with these species grew to maturity, flowered, and produced viable seed. Photographs were taken to document the presence of haustoria on the roots of T. auriculata. This first reported success of culturing this species with selected hosts under greenhouse conditions is significant for recovery efforts and management of the species.
4032739|Most modern state and regional floras for eastern North America use the binomial Swertia caroliniensis (Walt.) Kuntze, rather than Frasera caroliniensis Walt., for the American Columbo. Cytological studies by Rork (1949) and cytological, morphological and anatomical studies by Post (1956) provide strong evidence that Frasera Walt. is a distinct genus from Swertia L. Recent chemical studies on F. caroliniensis by Stout and Balkenhol (1969) further support the separation of the two genera. Thus, the correct binomial for the eastern American Columbo is Frasera caroliniensis Walt.
4032889|Fourteen species of deciduous trees were reported as serving as hosts for Phoradendron flavescens in Rutherford County. Most of the trees were of the following species: Ulmus americana, Ulmus serotina, Carya ovata, Juglans nigra and Fraxinus americana.
4033154|Anthocyanin pigment variants of Sarracenia purpurea L. ssp. venosa (Raf.) Wherry were studied in the Carolinas coastal plain. The variations noted are: 1) red veined green pitcher leaves vs. all red/maroon leaves; 2) varying intensity of anthocyanin pigments in sepals; and 3) varying intensity of red color of petals. Data collected in this study and previous related studies indicate that these variations are genetic. The variation in petal color intensity is not directly related to sepal and pitcher color patterns, although the latter two are to each other. In shaded situations, nearly all pitcher leaves are veined to some degree in this area, but in full sunlight some plants have the genetic capacity to produce all red/maroon leaves. It is concluded that these variations are not directly adaptive in present natural or transplant habitats. Possible adaptive significance in other situations is briefly discussed.
4032790|Twelve former oak-chestnut communities in western Virginia were sampled in 1969 to determine their composition 30 years after the chestnut blight became fully manifested in the region. Based upon overall importance values, the most important tree species were found to be Quercus prinus, Q. rubra, Acer rubrum, Q. coccinea, and Q. alba. The results of the study were found to be in general agreement with similar investigations conducted previously in other portions of the former oak-chestnut association which seem to indicate that the association can now best be regarded as an oak association-complex.
4034113|A year long survey in 1995 provided an overview of the vegetation of a 25.5 ha montane longleaf pine tract on Fort McClellan, a United States Army Post adjacent to Anniston, Alabama. The location in northeast Alabama is close to the elevational limit of the longleaf pine ecosystem. Military maneuvers caused a fire presence to be maintained over time, resulting in the maintenance of this rare peripheral system. However, fire presence had declined from historic frequency, and the forest type was changing from a longleaf pine to a mixed pine-hardwood type. The vegetational survey added to baseline data on the tree components of the tract. The survey identified 146 vascular plant species from 53 families.
4033857|Vegetation-substrate relationships of a sandstone outcrop located along the Ohio River are presented. Dominant species were crustose lichens (Endocarpon pusillum Hedw., Psorotichia schaereri (Massal.) Arnold, and Rinodina oxydata (Massal.) Massal.), Panicum virgatum L., and Amorpha fruticosa L. Five dominance types were identified from cluster analysis based upon composition of cryptogams and vascular plants: 1) Atrichum angustatum (Brid.) B.S.G.-Hypericum prolificum L., 2) Amorpha fruticosa-Panicum virgatum, 3) Ulmus rubra Muhl., 4) Endocarpon pusillum-Psorotichia schaereri, and 5) Rinodina oxydata. Discriminant-function analysis identified five important substrates in the dominance type structure on the outcrop: 1) dripway rock, 2) talus rock, 3) bare rock, 4) rock depression, and 5) loess soil. Disturbance from river flooding, degree of shading, and aspect are thought to maintain the vegetation.
4034120|During botanical surveys in the Table Rock Reservoir watershed in Pickens and Greenville Counties, South Carolina (1992-93), observations were made on a unique vegetation community located at the base of vertical north-facing cliffs of Table Rock. Sheets of ice and rock detach from the cliffs and fall up to 305 m (1,000 ft) and have created small, narrow ponds with sand terraces above boulder fields. This unusual habitat never receives direct sunlight, is unobstructed by woody vegetation, and is continuously cool and wet. Found at approximately 549 m (1,800 ft), a moderately high elevation for the state, the community and habitat characteristics of the ice ponds show affinities to communities of much higher elevations in North Carolina and of much higher latitudes. Four of the fifty-three species found in the vicinity of the ice ponds are considered here to be Pleistocene relicts: Carex barrattii, Carex buxbaumii, Sanguisorba canadensis, and Scirpus cespitosus.
20433879|Carex roanensis is a globally rare species endemic in moderate to high elevation forests in the southern Appalachian Mountains. All known collections were reviewed, including previously unpublished records from Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, and Tennessee, and an annotated distribution map is presented. A preliminary assessment of its ecological affinities is provided, especially with respect to the closely related C. aestivalis and C. virescens.
4033191|Short-term changes in the entire vascular plant community after clearcutting were examined to supplement previous work on commercially important species. Five sites representing the first through fourth seasons after logging were chosen in the Highlands Ranger District, Nantahala National Forest, North Carolina. Large intersite variation was found. Pinus strobus and Quercus spp. dominated the uncut forests but were being replaced by Acer rubrum and Liriodendron tulipifera during the four-year period. Forest-adapted herbs decreased in abundance, whereas field-adapted herbs increased. Additional research is needed on later effects on shrubs and herbs using a better quantification of intersite variation.
4034019|The High Terrace Rolling Uplands include the majority of Louisiana's Kisatchie National Forest and contain some of the most extensive longleaf pine communities remaining on the western gulf coastal plain. Forty-seven mature stands from this region were sampled. Occurrences of ground layer and overstory species were recorded. Soils and physiography were described and topsoil samples collected. Data were subjected to Two Way Indicator Species Analysis (TWINSPAN) classification and Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) ordination. Ordination scores corresponded to a primary gradient of topographic position and fire frequency and to secondary gradients of wetness among stream floodplains and soil texture among upland sites. Ordination and classification results were used to describe eight natural community types ranging from moist-mesic floodplains to upland longleaf pine communities on sandy soils.
40792822|Although the Appalachian Mountains of southwestern Virginia, United States, are known to represent a major 'hotspot' of biodiversity for North America, no significant survey of overall lichen diversity has been conducted in the region thus far. Presented here is a list of 221 distinct taxa of lichens, lichenicolous fungi, and 'lichen allies' collected during the 2008 Hugo L. Blomquist Bryological and Lichenological Foray in the mountains of southwestern Virginia. Collections were made from diverse habitats, primarily in the Mount Rogers National Recreation Area (MRNRA), and yielded 41 potential state records. Particularly noteworthy collections include: Sphaerellothecium coniodes (a lichenicolous fungus that was not previously known to exist in North America), Hypotrachyna lividescens (a primarily neotropical macrolichen that has not previously been reported from North America), Pycnora praestabilis (a lignicolous crust not previously reported from any other location in eastern North America), Heterodermia erecta (a foliose lichen previously known in the world only from a single small region of Georgia/North Carolina), and Psilolechia clavulifera (a crustose lichen taxon previously reported from only one other location in eastern North America). The sheer diversity of lichens, along with the number of rare and/or potentially endangered taxa, highlights the need for continued preservation efforts in MRNRA and the southern Appalachian Mountains in general.
4032705|A description is given of eight granitic outcroppings located in the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park, Cobb County, Georgia. Characteristic rock outcrop species of plants occur at these sites, but the presence of mats of Selaginella rupestris on six of the eight outcroppings studied distinguish Kennesaw from other granite outcrops in this part of northwest Georgia.
4034232|Rudbeckia auriculata is a rare wetland-associated species endemic to three southeastern states: Alabama, Florida, and Georgia. This study includes eight censuses of flowering individuals of the species during the ten-year period from 1992 to 2002. Although the number of known populations has increased during this time, the total number of flowering stems has remained relatively constant. Population size ranged from a single flowering stem to populations with over 1,000 flowering stems. Information on soils and associated species of vascular plants was collected at 20 of the 32 known sites during 1999, 2000, and 2001. Typical sites for the plant are located on wet soils along roadsides, power line right-of-ways or other disturbed sites. Associated species are those characteristic of disturbed open wetland sites. Although some large colonies of R. auriculata still exist, only two populations, both in the northern portion of the species' range, have been protected.
4034144|The Australian punk tree Melaleuca quinquenervia is a notorious invasive weed that threatens the biological integrity of Florida's Everglades ecosystems. A comprehensive plan initiated to manage M. quinquenervia includes an ambitious biological control program, and as part of this program we investigated the origins and invasion history of M. quinquenervia in Florida. Scrutiny of public and private records showed that extant populations derive from more than a dozen introductions, with the earliest occurring during 1886 in Sarasota County. Six sources, some Australian and some extra-Australian, have contributed to Florida's populations. The tree became naturalized in southern Florida during the 1920s, but a paucity of records makes it difficult to determine when naturalized populations began to proliferate via an exponential growth phase. Human distribution of seeds and seedlings is a confounding factor in attempting to decipher rates of M. quinquenervia invasion.
41416201|Floras, or documented lists of vascular plant species in a defined area, are widely used in biodiversity research and conservation, and represent a common type of publication in regional botanical and natural history journals. Although all floras present common types of information, there has not yet been a formal attempt to develop community standards for floristic data. As a consequence, published floras often lack basic data describing the study area, taxonomic sources, and criteria for inclusion of species. Here, we develop a grading scheme for floras and apply it to 145 articles in 5 leading journals (Castanea, Rhodora, Sida/Journal of the Botanical Research Institute of Texas, Journal of the Torrey Botanical Club, and Southeastern Naturalist) published from 2000 through 2009. We found that the average 'grade' was 80%, and did not vary among journals. We also list common mistakes and confusions. We urge authors, editors, and reviewers to adopt (and adhere to) a set of standards that we provide, or to develop similar comprehensive standards of their own.
4033909|Gaps created by natural mortality of one or a small group of canopy trees are an important fine-scale disturbance event in southeastern Ohio forests. Differences in gap fraction, gap-making species, and the relative importance of several classes of gap origin were examined using transects installed on upper north- and south-facing slopes across the Marietta Unit of the Wayne National Forest. Canopy gap and expanded gap fractions were estimated at 9.37% and 12.10% of total land area, respectively, at the land-scape level. No significant differences in gap fraction between north- and south-facing slopes were detected. The most common mode of gap origin was the tip-up of an individual canopy tree. The frequency of single- and multiple-tree gaps was not found to be correlated with aspect. Oaks (Quercus) constituted the majority of gap-making trees for both north-and south-facing slopes.
4033485|Eighteen species of the Clusiaceae are members of the Ohio flora: 15 native and one alien species of the genus Hypericum, and two native species of Triadenum. In the latter genus Triadenum virginicum var. fraseri and T. tubulosum var. walteri are new nomenclatural combinations.
4033377|The following western plants are reported as new for West Virginia: Zigadenus elegans Pursh ssp. glaucus (Nutt.) Hulten, Erysimum asperum (Nutt.) DC., Astragalus neglectus (T.&G.) Sheldon, and Solidago rigida L. var rigida. A possible migratory route of these species to West Virginia is described.
4034026|Carolina hemlock is a southern Appalachian endemic that occurs from northeastern Georgia to southwestern Virginia. It is typically found on dry, exposed, and nutrient poor slopes; although not abundant, it may sometimes occur in nearly pure stands. The importance values (IV) of Carolina hemlock at this site were 49.2, 89.7, and 38.5 in the tree, small tree, and sapling strata (total possible = 100). Oaks (Quercus spp.) were present in the canopy but do not appear to be self-sustaining, and maples (Acer spp.) appear to be limited to the lower canopy levels. The absence of Carolina hemlock seedlings at this site, and gaps in the age distribution of stems >5 cm DBH suggest that recruitment may be episodic. The dominance of the species may be attributable to the elimination of American chestnut (Castanea dentata) during the 1930s and 1940s. The growth rate of Carolina hemlock at this site was faster than those reported by Humphrey on more productive sites in North Carolina. This confirms Humphrey's findings that Carolina hemlock exhibits a stress-tolerant life history strategy.
4033538|Ring widths of mature white oak trees were compared on 16 upland hardwood sites in the South Carolina Piedmont. Each site was classified as being in one of four community types forming a vegetation continuum along an environmental gradient ranging from xeric upland flats to mesic lower slopes. Ring widths were analyzed to determine the effect of climate on radial growth of white oak over the environmental gradient. The ring-width chronologies of the xeric community types (1 and 2) showed more ring-to-ring variation then the more mesic community types (3 and 4), agreeing with the hypothesis of decreasing climatic stress from the xeric to mesic community types. Based on response function analysis, important monthly climatic variables in white oak summerwood radial growth included: mean temperature for August, October, and December (prior year), March, May, June, and July (current year), and total precipitation for August and September (prior year), and January through June (current year). There were four more significant monthly climatic variables in the summerwood ring-width response functions than in the total ring-width response functions, agreeing with the hypothesis that there is more climatic information in the summerwood portion of radial increment than in total ring width. Although visual analysis of total ring-width chronologies indicated that the length of the recovery period following a drought event was longer for trees on community type 1 (xeric) than on community type 4 (mesic), statistical analysis found no difference in the length of the recovery period between these two community types.
27742880|Delphinium newtonianum (Ranunculaceae) is a rare endemic of the Interior Highlands. Using a single-copy nuclear gene, genetic diversity was determined for eight populations. Genetic diversity in D. newtonianum is high (37 haplotypes were identified from 80 individuals) and haplotype diversity was 0.885 + 0.016. Analysis of genetic structure indicates that populations within the Ozark region do not show significant genetic differentiation due to a high level of gene flow. However, Ouachita populations have undergone genetic drift and the loss of genetic diversity relative to Ozark populations. In addition, all Ouachita populations are significantly differentiated from all other populations. A neighbor-joining tree based on p-distance identifies Ouachita populations as a monophyletic group most likely established from a single Ozark population. Ozark and Ouachita populations should be treated as two genetically distinct metapopulations and considered to be evolutionary significant units.
4033196|Fifty-four species of mosses representing 22 families were collected at seven sites in Calloway County in the Jackson Purchase Area of Kentucky from October 1975 to December 1976. Of the 53 species, all represented new records for Calloway County, 38 represented new records for the Jackson Purchase area, and one represented a new record for the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
4033908|Mixed deciduous forest in southwestern Virginia was sampled after a series of ice storms to assess damage to trees and changes in community composition. Pre-storm data were available from 1993. The same plots were resampled two years after ice storms in February and March 1994. Density for overstory and understory trees decreased 39% and 14%, respectively. Basal area declined 46% for overstory trees and 12% for understory trees. Sapling density increased only 9%, but basal area increased 36%, indicating increased growth as a response to loss of overstory canopy. The overstory trees Quercus coccinea and Pinus strobus suffered the heaviest damage; together they lost 36% of basal area. Among understory trees and saplings, the greatest damage was to Acer rubrum and P. strobus, which together lost 11% of basal area. Damage was heaviest on the valley floor and adjoining south-facing slope. An average of 23.0% of individuals and 20.8% of basal area was damaged. Ice damage should cause little change in the chestnut oak community on the north-facing slope. On the south-facing slope succession will be retarded. Vegetation of the valley floor should change slightly; there will be fewer oaks and more species typical of mixed mesophytlc forest.
4032692|Frequency distribution of the plant species and soil depth determinations are presented for a previously undescribed plant community in the Middle Tennessee cedar glades. Andropogon scoparius was the dominant species; its frequency of occurrence in 140 1-M
4034101| Overstory, shrub-layer, and herb-layer flora composition and abundance patterns in eleven forest sites were studied to evaluate species diversity and richness before implementing three types of harvest treatments. The sites were within the Wine Spring Creek Watershed and were classified as high elevation, dry, Quercus rubra-Rhododendron calendulaceum based on McNab and Browning's Landscape Ecosystem Classification system. Evaluation of species diversity was determined by Shannon-Weiner's index of diversity (H) and Pielou's species evenness index (J). Overstory H based on tree density ranged from 1.62 to 2.50 and H based on tree basal area ranged from 0.94 to 2.22. The importance values for woody species, showed four species that occurred on all sites (Acer rubrum, Quercus rubra, Amelanchier arborea, and Castanea dentata) accounted for 32 to 84% of overstory abundance. Shrub-layer
4032461|Four separate instances of apparent spontaneous hybridization between the native Sarracenia purpurea L. and introduced S. flava L. at Bear Lake in Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania, are described. This hybrid has been known for a long time under the name S. catesbaei Elliott.
4033091|Four species of the Santalaceae occur in Virginia: Buckleya distichophylla, Comandra umbellata, Nestronia umbellula, and Pyrularia pubera. Buckleya is now known from five counties. A key to and description of each species is given and aspects of biology, especially morphology and parasitism, discussed.
41301482|Over the past several centuries, upland successional grasslands of Virginia have been invaded by exotic grasses introduced from Europe. We examined three strategies (vegetation removal, nitrogen manipulation, and seeding) for improving the establishment of the native grasses Andropogon gerardii Sorghastrum nutans, and Schizachyrium scoparium to the northern Shendandoah Valley in Virginia. Experimental plots were subjected to one of four vegetation removal techniques: plowing, glyphosate herbicide, glyphosate plus imazapic herbicide, or no removal. Each plot was divided into two subplots that were either seeded with native grass seeds or not. Within all subplots three levels of soil nitrogen were established (low, ambient, high). The result show that plots subjected to vegetation removal using both herbicides and a reduction in the plant-available soil nitrogen yielded the highest number of native grass seedlings. Native grasses were observed in all plots except for the control which had no vegetation removed. The results from this study inform grassland managers of the importance of vegetation removal prior to restoration attempts.
41058091|Sweet-scented Indian-plantain, Hasteola suaveolens (L.) Pojark., is a species of special concern in 13 states and jurisdictions in the eastern United States and occurs predominantly in riparian habitats. In the Allegheny National Forest (ANF) of northwestern Pennsylvania, H. suaveolens is considered a species with viability concerns. I surveyed riparian plant communities in the Allegheny River Islands Wilderness (ARIW) of the ANF to provide information on the habitat affinities of H. suaveolens useful for conservation and management needs. Hasteola suaveolens was located within 13 of 42 survey sites on six of the seven islands in the ARIW and occurred in three riparian community types: a floodplain scour community dominated by native herbaceous plants an Acer saccharinum-Platanus occidentalis floodplain savanna community and a Platanus occidentalis-Carya cordiformis (Wang.) K. Koch-Ulmus rubra Muhl. floodplain savanna community. Occurrences of H. suaveolens were largely associated with elevated floodplain geomorphic surfaces having moderately drained to well-drained soils that were located above high energy scour zones.
4034055|We investigated two Black Prairie relict sites at Sixteen Section Prairie, Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, in 1994-95. We documented 152 species of vascular plants, including 7 considered imperiled or critically imperiled in the state and 4 proposed for listing as possibly imperiled, imperiled, or critically imperiled. We delineated three different plant communities: the open prairie community, the prairie cedar woodland community, and the chalk outcrop community. A comparison of our findings with historical accounts of Black Prairie plant communities suggests recent (<150 years) changes in Black Prairie plant community structure. Using floristic data generated in this study, we also found evidence to further support the hypothesis that there are substantial similarities between Mississippi and Arkansas blackland prairies. At the same time, our data suggest that Mississippi and Texas blackland prairies differ in overall character.
4032723|The discovery of Podostemum ceratophyllum Michx. in the white water stream portion of the Red River on the Cumberland Plateau in Kentucky, and a preliminary review of the ecology and distribution of this species, have made the author aware of the potential of this plant of serving as an indicator of clean streams as well as showing environmental impacts on streams in the eastern USA and southern Canada.
4034269|Results of surveys conducted from 1996 to 2004 support the endemic status of Solidago albopilosa in Kentucky as well as confirm that this species is limited to three counties in the Red River Gorge, although 35 new sites are added to the previously delimited distribution. An assessment of the status of this species identifies recreation as the primary cause for a decline in S. albopilosa populations. During our monitoring effort, 86% of S. albopilosa sites were impacted by recreation, and 33% of these were classed as severe.
4032907|Collections are reported from the herbarium of The University of North Carolina at Charlotte of 573 distributional records for the Carolinas representing 478 taxa of 98 families.
4032916|A study of tidal marsh vegetation was conducted in abandoned rice fields of the Winyah Bay estuary on the Baruch Plantation, Georgetown County, South Carolina. Soil samples were analyzed for chlorinity, pH, texture, and organic content. Texture, organic content, and pH do not seem to be important edaphic factors influencing vegetational zonation. Chlorinity does appear to limit species distribution. Zonation in relation to elevation is apparent in the more saline Thousand Acre Rice Field but not in the less saline Upper Marsh. In more saline areas Spartina alterniflora occupies areas of lower elevation and higher water salinity than does Spartina cynosuroides and Juncus roemerianus. In the less saline Upper Marsh, the plants most frequently encountered were Spartina cynosuroides, Zizaniopsis miliacea, Zizania aquatica, Scirpus spp., Typha angustifolia, Sagittaria falcata, Lilaeopsis chinensis, and Aster tenuifolius.
4034017|Flowering pattern, flowering phenology, and mating system of the closely-related, interfertile species Penstemon tenuiflorus and P. hirsutus are the same. Flowers are protandrous, but there is some overlap of anther dehiscence and stigma receptivity. Additionally, flowers of different sexual phases are scattered throughout an inflorescence. Primary pollinators of both species were Bombus pennsylvanicus and B. bimaculatus. Outcrossed plants of P. tenuiflorus (studied in both field and greenhouse) and of P. hirsutus (studied in greenhouse only) produced significantly more seeds than selfed plants. In a greenhouse study, bagged, self-pollinated plants of both species produced significantly more seeds than bagged, nonmanipulated ones. However, although number of seeds produced by bagged, self-pollinated plants of P. tenuiflorus in a field study (P. hirsutus not studied) was greater than that produced by bagged, nonmanipulated plants, the differences were not significant. In both species, there was little or no difference in weight or in percent viability in outcrossed vs. selfed seeds, and very few or no seeds were produced by bagged, emasculated flowers. In the field, number of seeds produced by nonbagged, nonmanipulated and by nonbagged, cross-pollinated (by hand) plants of P. tenuiflorus did not differ significantly (P. hirsutus not studied). Neither percent seed germination nor seedling-juvenile growth parameters differed between selfed vs. outcrossed progeny of P. tenuiflorus (P. hirsutus not studied). These results suggest that both species use a mixed mating system consisting of xenogamy, geitonogamy, and autogamy; agamospermy is unimportant. Further, seed set in P. tenuiflorus is not pollinator limited (P. hirsutus not studied), and the species does not appear to exhibit inbreeding depression in seed weight, in seed germination, or in several growth parameters. However, in both species, selfed flowers produced significantly fewer seeds than outcrossed flowers.
4033067|Vegetation zones were studied on longitudinal bars and upstream ends of islands within the Passage Creek gorge, Virginia. These channel features, which are inundated approximately 10-15 percent of the year, support vegetation different in species composition and growth form from riparian vegetation typical of higher areas of the flood plain. Frequency of flooding and flood damage to vegetation are greater on channel features than on the adjacent flood plain, which suggests that the frequency of flooding is an integral factor in the formation and maintenance of vegetation patterns. Recognition of these patterns may be useful in detecting flood potential in areas where there are little or no flood data.
4034313| Absorptance of visible light (400-700 nm) by mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia L.) was highest during May followed by April. Compared to May and April, light absorptance decreased 19 and 25% during June and August, respectively. The same results were obtained for light absorptance during December with the exception that during June and August the percentage of light absorptance in the range 562-594 nm was reduced to 56%. Near-infrared light (750-800 nm) absorptance decreased sharply in comparison to the absorption of visible light each sampling time. The lowest absorptance value for the near-infrared light was obtained during June and August (39%), followed in increasing order by December (53%), May (71%) and April (75%). Chlorophyll concentrations gradually increased starting in February and continued through August. In general, reflectance for the visible and near-infrared ranges was lower than 10% for all the sampling period with an exception in April when a sharp increase, in near-infrared reflectance to slightly above 30%, was detected. Evaluation of the light saturation curve showed that CO
20433880|The vascular flora was studied and plant habitats described within an abandoned limestone quarry contiguous to Center Hill Dam in DeKalb County, central Tennessee, between 1986-2000. From seven diverse quarry habitats, 282 species in 203 genera and 81 families were documented. One hundred sixty-two species (57.4%) are DeKalb County distribution records. Sixty-four (22.7%) are exotic taxa including 22 Tennessee "severe threat" and "significant threat" invasive exotic pests. The known vascular flora includes five Pteridophytes, three Gymnosperms, and 273 Angiosperms (69 Monocots, 205 Dicots). Two state-listed species were discovered: Elymus svensonii and Liparis loeselii. Carex molesta is reported here as a new addition to the Tennessee flora.
4033360|Floristic data and county dot distribution maps are presented for eight species of the Polygalaceae in the Ohio flora. Evidence of rarity in the state for five species is presented. Taxonomic and nomenclatural problems for five species are discussed.
4033676|Alligatorweed, Alternanthera philoxeroides (Mart.) Griseb., a South American immigrant, is an aquatic weed in the southern United States where it roots in shallow water or on shore. Floating stems grow across the surface of the waterway forming a dense interwoven mat. This mat clogs the waterway and outcompetes native plants along the shore. Three species of South American insects were released from 1964 to 1971 for biological control of this aggressive invader. The flea beetle Agasicles hygophila Selman & Vogt strips the leaves from the stems and the moth Vogtia malloi Pastrana bores inside the stems. Heavy damage by either species kills the stems thereby causing the mat to break up, clearing the waterway. The thrips Amynothrips andersoni O'Neill feeds on the young apical leaves. Heavily damaged plants are often stunted. Alligatorweed has been controlled or the populations reduced throughout much of its range, especially in Florida and along the Gulf Coast. Colder climates, though, from Arkansas to North Carolina along the margin of the range preclude establishment of the insects. In some colder areas, for example the Lower Mississippi River Valley, the moths and flea beetles immigrate from the warm coastal areas and provide local control.
4033500|In the most recent monographic study of the decurrent-leaved species of Helenium, Rock treated H. virginicum Blake, and the varieties of H. autumnale L., as a single species complex. Rock based this treatment on the apparent continuity of variation within the complex and his uncertainty as to the basis of this variation. To begin to determine if reported differences between H. virginicum and H. autumnale are genetic or phenecotypic, an experimental garden comparison of H. virginicum with H. autumnale var. parviflorum (Nutt.) Fern. was undertaken. Genetically based differences between these taxa were found in height, bolting date, blooming period, cauline leaf morphology and abundance, pappus length, and length of basal leaves during flowering. The presence or absence of basal leaves during flowering was found not to be a good distinguishing character. Field observations suggest that H. virginicum and H. autumnale var. parviflorum are ecologically isolated.
4034030|The Flomaton Natural Area is a virgin stand of longleaf pine located in Escambia County, Alabama. Fire has been absent for at least the past 45 years from the stand. Efforts are underway to restore this fire-dependent ecosystem through the re-introduction of fire. This paper presents data collected in advance of the re-introduction of fire. A substantial hardwood understory and midstory have developed and a thick litter layer has accumulated in the absence of fire. Longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) regeneration and herbaceous vegetation are almost nonexistent. Considering all trees >1.25 cm DBH, longleaf pine averages 309 stems/ha and 19 m
40983093|Three species of Platygramme in North America (north of Mexico) are treated, two of which are newly reported for the continent (P. pachnodes and P. praestans). The new combination Platygramme pachnodes is proposed for Phaeographina pachnodes (basionym Graphis pachnodes).
4033539| The southern woodfern Dryopteris  australis is the aborted-spore backcross hybrid of the allotetraploid D. celsa with one of its parents, D. ludoviciana. From previous reports, this hybrid is known to occur at several localities with D. celsa well north of the present range of D. ludoviciana. Examination of vigorous clones, misidentified as D. celsa, in southeastern Virginia and southeastern Tennessee has resulted in their identification as D.  australis based on morphology, aborted spores, chromosome counts, and isoenzyme profiles. Although both localities are within the range of D. celsa, the hybrids are several miles from the nearest known D. celsa populations and much farther from the nearest known D. ludoviciana site. Their occurrence may be due either to local hybridization, probably involving dispersed spores, or to functioning of viable unreduced spores by D.  australis itself. 
4032633|Two relatively recent field collections from Wilmington, N.C., and Charleston, S.C., indicate that Boerhaavia diffusa L. (Nyctaginaceae) is established in the Carolinas. A review of the literature also indicates that the commonly used taxon, B. coccinea Mill., is a synonym and should be discarded in favor of B. diffusa L.
4032509|An investigation was made of the distribution of the Orchidaceae in Carter, Johnson, Sullivan, Unicoi and Washington counties in upper East Tennessee. This paper presents the new county records that were established. In addition, a table is presented to show the county distribution of all seventeen genera and thirty species reported from the area.
4032909|Keys, distribution maps, habitats, references, nomenclature, and notes are given for the Onagraceae occurring naturally or naturalized in Mississippi. Genera included are: Gaura, Oenothera, Ludwigia, and Circaea.
4033434|Foliar flavonoid profiles permit discrimination between Fraxinus americana and F. pennsylvanica and the identification of the ploidy level in the former species. Gender cannot be ascertained by foliar flavonoid complement for either species.
4033580|This paper lists 14 species of Myxomycetes not previously known to occur in West Virginia and emends two records reported in an earlier paper.
27742908|Arundinaria gigantea (Walt.) Muhl., commonly called river cane, is a member of the grass family (Poaceae). The primary purpose of this research is to characterize the physical and chemical properties of the soils of existing stands of A. gigantea in western North Carolina and to provide guidance for the restoration of river cane to the stream valleys of the Southern Appalachian Mountains. We analyzed soils at 20 sites in Cherokee, Jackson, and Macon Counties in North Carolina and collected data on soil characterization, nutrient levels, bulk density, particle size, pH, and hydraulic conductivity. River cane soils varied significantly for carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, and sand levels, even within the same watershed (ANOVA, p &lt; 0.05). Typical soils are very sandy, mineral soils with low carbon levels and low nutrient levels. Soils are well drained, have very low bulk densities, and low pH. Despite low nutrient conditions, the plant does not appear to be nutrient limited. Restoration potential for the species is high, but more research is required to determine specific limitations on growth.
41301493|Phylogenetic studies in the eastern United States have uncovered patterns of genetic variation that suggest an influence of glacial history on various plant species. Similarly, studies have indicated regional-level genetic discontinuities corresponding with reduced gene flow between regions and populations, often associated with a geographical barrier. Here we examine the population genetics of a species found mostly in northeastern North America, but with populations at high elevations along the southern half of the Appalachian Mountains. Nine populations of the plant species Sibbaldiopsis tridentata (Rosaceae) in the eastern United States were sampled, using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) molecular markers. Levels of genetic diversity within and among populations were determined. Results indicate that the degree of intrapopulation genetic variation varies between populations. A statistically significant discontinuity is identified between populations east and west of the Valley and Ridge Province, which suggests that this region has likely acted as a barrier to historical gene flow. Within the Appalachian Mountains, northeastern populations show varying levels of genetic similarity to southeastern populations with no clear genetic signal delineating northern and southern populations. The genetic patterns discerned in this study suggest a complex species history, which should provide insight in future studies of this and other ecologically similar plant species.
4032905|The flowering responses of 50 species of winter annuals grown in heated and nonheated rooms of a greenhouse in Lexington, Kentucky were compared. None of the 50 species, except possibly Galium cruciata and Thlaspi perfoliata, has an absolute low temperature requirement for flowering, but in 40 of the species temperature exerts a quantitative influence, by increasing or decreasing the time to flowering. In 38 species, low temperature slowed growth and development and thus delayed the time to flowering, while in two species, Alyssum alyssoides and Bromus japonicus, low temperature decreased the time to flowering. In the other eight species temperature did not influence flowering either in a quantitative or qualitative way, and plants in the heated and nonheated rooms flowered at the same time. In these eight species photoperiod may be more important than temperature in controlling the time of flowering in the field.
4033419|A floristic survey at Indian Springs and High Falls State Parks, Georgia, documented 556 different species, 337 genera, and 113 families. Five species usually restricted to the coastal plain were found. Most of the vegetation at High Falls is second growth following the abandonment of cotton culture. However, a small tract of relatively intact forest occurs at Indian Springs.
4032458|A distributional study of the Cactaceae of Ohio utilizing both literature and herbarium records revealed the presence of two species. Opuntia compressa (Salisb.) Macbr. is native but infrequent in the state's flora. It occurs primarily in sandy soil in two widely separated regions of the state: the southwest shore of Lake Erie and vicinity and the unglaciated Appalachian upland of southeastern Ohio. This disjunct pattern is likely related to a northern migration during a xerothermic period ensuing after the retreat of the Wisconsin glaciers. Opuntia macrorhiza Engelm. is introduced and naturalized only in the southwest corner of the state (Hamilton County), this naturalization being due to the creation of artificial xerophytic habitats, viz., the construction of railroad right-of-ways in gravel deposits. Both are variable species. However, the recognition of segregate species or even infraspecific taxa in Ohio appears unwarranted.
41301484|Results of pollen analyses of dual sediment cores from alluvium of Caddo Creek in northern Anderson County in East Texas replicate trends of vegetation change during the last 6,700 years. These floral changes include most importantly a long-term decline of hickory and a rise of pine due to physiographic factors of irreversible soil acidification. With a view to factors of climate change, a major xeric phase is defined between 4000 and 3000 BP, when grassland vegetation expands beyond its present range. Human impacts during the prehistoric period are comparatively limited despite a regional presence of many archaeological sites, although tentative evidence for a Native sylviculture of hickory is considered. Methods of alluvial palynology pioneered in East Texas are validated through an application of strict checks on palynological data sets.
4033982|Fossil pollen and charcoal in peat deposits and pond sediments from three sites in the southern Appalachians yielded evidence for a direct relationship between prehistoric Native American use of fire and increases in the importance of oak-chestnut forest between about 3,000 and 1,000 years ago. At Cliff Palace Pond on the Cumberland Plateau of southeastern Kentucky, Tuskegee Pond, in the Ridge and Valley of East Tennessee, and Horse Cove Bog in the Blue Ridge Mountains of western North Carolina, increases in fire frequency corresponded with the change in Native American activities from hunting and gathering in the Late Archaic cultural period toward more sedentary lifestyles and cultivation of native plants in the Woodland cultural period. Forests of oak and chestnut became dominant on upper slopes, with fire-adapted pines establishing on ridge tops and disturbance-adapted hardwoods invading abandoned Indian old fields. We speculate that prehistoric Native American use of fire would have been an intermediate-scale disturbance regime that would have heightened ecotonal contrast across plant community boundaries and would also have increased biological diversity across the landscape.
4033888|Five terete-leaved Talinum species occur in the Southeast on rock outcroppings. All are summer-flowering perennials with succulent leaves and ephemeral, rose-colored flowers. Talinum parviflorum (2n = 24) has tiny flowers that open late in the day and self-pollinate. This species is distributed in the central United States from Arkansas westward, but an outlier population, formerly named T. appalachianum, occurs in north Alabama. Talinum mengesii populations are predominantly diploid (2n = 24). This species, mainly distributed in northern Alabama, western Georgia and southeastern Tennessee, occurs on both granite and sandstone. Two enclaves of T. mengesii populations are isolated from the main distribution of the species and intervening outcrops have only T. teretifolium. Talinum teretifolium (2n = 48), distributed from Georgia to Pennsylvania, is an allopolyploid derived from T. mengesii and T. parviflorum. This conclusion is based on morphological, reproductive and biochemical evidence, and the recreation of the species from parental species. Talinum calcaricum (2n = 48) is endemic to limestone outcrops in Tennessee and Alabama. Evidence presented suggests a derivation from T. calycinum, which is distributed from Arkansas westward and has both diploid and tetraploid populations that grow on shale, sandstone or limestone. These two species differ in floral characteristics, but are 100% interfertile.
4033068|An analysis of floating vegetation mat communities in Grassy Lake, a southwestern Arkansas bald cypress swamp, is presented. Decodon verticillatus (water-willow) is the dominant species, and Zizaniopsis miliacea and Hydrocotyle verticillata are important secondary species. The successional pattern includes a pioneer stage dominated by D. verticillatus, a water-willow--herbaceous stage, a water-willow--herbshrub stage, and finally a tree stage dominated by bald cypress. The successional pattern differs from the sequence of stages reported from other areas of the Southeastern United States. It is suggested that floating vegetation mats provide a mechanism for bald cypress seedling establishment in a relatively permanent flooded pool.
4033118|An attempt was made to verify the existence of 18 disjunct populations of river birch (Betula nigra L.) displayed on the most current range-wide maps of the species. Communications with numerous botanists and resource managers led to the conclusion that only 4 of the 18 disjunct populations currently exist, and that the bulk of the remaining populations are artifacts arising from horticultural introductions and misidentification. Such overestimates of the occurrence of disjunct populations in widespread tree species of North America is probably common given the extreme difficulties in defining distributional limits.
4033697|Indigenous plant communities are being rapidly destroyed by expanding conifer populations in remaining serpentine "barrens" of Maryland. The main purpose of this study was to determine herbacous layer effects of two restoration treatments in Soldiers Delight Natural Environmental Area near Baltimore, Maryland. The cleared-only treatment consisted of post-growing season manual removal of all conifers, and the cleared-and-burned treatment consisted of the latter followed by two consecutive post-growing season prescribed burns. Clearing occurred in November 1989, prescribed burning in November 1990 and 1991, and sampling for presence and percent cover data occurred during the growing seasons of 1989 through 1992. Analysis of covariance was used to detect significant treatment effects to the frequency, percent cover, and community importance percentage of each species. Major results included (1) the community dominant, Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash, did not respond to either treatment, (2) each treatment affected a completely different set of species, and (3) the cleared-and-burned treatment affected more species than the cleared-only treatment. The cleared-only treatment significantly affected 3 species, and each responded positively in at least one parameter. The cleared-and-burned treatment significantly affected 6 species; three species responded positively, two negatively, and one had mixed effects. Neither treatment affected oak seedling survival. Clearing-and-burning significantly increased bare mineral soil coverage; the cleared-only treatment had no effect. Neither treatment affected frequency of exposed substrate. Based on short-term responses, these restoration treatments could lead to communities with different vegetation structures.
4032385|Further studies in the field and herbarium during the past four years have added 75 more taxa of indigenous and exotic plants to the checklist of Park plants. These, plus a few nomenclatural changes pertaining to the preliminary checklist and its supplements, and additional botanical literature about the Park, are included in this paper. Thus far, 1,195 taxa of indigenous and exotic plants have been recorded from the Park.
4034280|Eriocaulon decangulare is a wetland species that is rare in the North Carolina mountains. The mountain populations are disjunct from those in the Coastal Plain, where the species is more common. We investigated the habitat and plant associates of E. decangulare in three mountain wetlands during summer 2002. We centered 40, 0.25-m
4034195|In a continuing study of the biodiversity and biogeography of poroid wood-decay fungi in North Carolina, a notable number of species and fungus-host combinations previously not reported in the state were collected. Eleven species of poroid wood-decay fungi are reported as new in North Carolina. Eightyfive species are reported on a new host plant species resulting in 315 new fungus-host associations in North Carolina, of which 231 are new fungus-host associations for the United States.
4034180| In 1794 Andr Michaux discovered dwarf sumac Rhus michauxii in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, and in 1803 published a species description under the name Rhus pumila. In 1895 C.S. Sargent assigned the name R. michauxii to correct Michaux's use of a homonym and to honor its discoverer. The type location is now in Union County, North Carolina, which was formed from part of Mecklenburg County in 1842. 
4034304|The vascular flora of Pike County, Alabama was surveyed from 1987 to 2001. A total of 1190 species and two named hybrids in 589 genera from 160 families are reported. Forty-five species represented by herbarium specimens or reported in the literature as occurring in Pike County were not re-collected during this study. Thirty-four species appear on the Inventory List of Rare, Threatened and Endangered Plants, Animals and Natural Communities of Alabama as compiled by the Alabama Natural Heritage Program. Two hundred thirty-eight of the species, or approximately 20 percent of the flora, are considered non-indigenous. Families with the largest number of taxa were Asteraceae (140), Poaceae (137), Fabaceae (86), Cyperaceae (68), Rosaceae (40), and Liliaceae (32).
4034312|Helianthus verticillatus Small was first collected in western Tennessee by S.M. Bain in 1892. J.K. Small described it as a new species in 1898. The species was not seen again in the century following the original collection. It has had varied treatments over the years, as a species or as a hybrid. Between 1994 and 1997, several subpopulations were found and studied in northwestern Georgia and northeastern Alabama. In 1998 it was rediscovered in western Tennessee, near the original site, but apparently not at the same site. Analyses of the morphology of the H. verticillatus, along with a determination of the chromosome number, have permitted an updated morphological description and the conclusion that this taxon is not a hybrid, but a good diploid species of sunflower.
4033838|Cyperus compressus L., C. croceus Vahl, C. difformis L., C. engelmannii Steudel, and C. microiria Steudel are documented for the first time from Kentucky. The range of C. brevifolioides Thieret & Delahoussaye is extended from two to 26 counties. The taxonomic characteristics of C. engelmannii are discussed.
4033851|Scaled chrysophytes from several Virginia lakes and ponds were identified using transmission and scanning electron microscopy. The presence of Mallomonas caudata, M. tonsurata var. tonsurata, M. striata var. serrata, M. matvienkoae f. matvienkoae (=Mallomonopsis elliptica), Mallomonas sp. and Synura curtispina was confirmed by detailed study of scales, spines and bristles characteristic of the Mallomonadaceae. All taxa reported are new electron microscope verified records for Virginia.
4032328|Vegetational succession following fire in mature eastern hemlock-mixed mesophytic forests is not well documented. Some qualitative descriptions do exist (Braun, 1950) but little quantitative information is available. Although primary and secondary succession following disturbance by man are generally well understood (i.e. logging, strip mining, agriculture, etc.), our knowledge of succession in virgin forests is limited. Secondary succession following a spatially limited, but moderately severe fire on a virgin mesic ravine slope community in eastern Kentucky is discussed. The vegetational structure, as it exists forty-seven years after the fire, is described quantitatively.
4032414|This floristic and vegetational survey of the Chattooga River Gorge is a contribution to the accumulating body of biological knowledge regarding the gorges of the Southeastern Blue Ridge Escarpment of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, supported by Highlands Biological Station. Two weather records not heretofore used in climatological evaluations of escarpment gorges are analyzed. A comparison is made between the Chattooga River and other rivers of the escarpment with respect to their relative gradients. Seven broad vegetation types are recognized as characteristic of the Chattooga River Gorge. (1) Mixed mesophytic: rare and located in a few northerly oriented coves or river slopes; (2) white pine-mixed deciduous: a successional type; (3) scarlet oak-chestnut oak-hickory: throughout and the most common type; (4) pitch pine-oak: on xeric peaks and ridges with southerly aspect; (5) flood zones: along the river; (6) rock outcrops: mesic and xeric phases on granite; (7) disturbed areas: scattered throughout. Collections made between May, 1968 and October, 1968 totaled 502 different species or varieties.
4032978|An unusually high incidence of red oak decline and death which occurred in 1979 in the Nantahala National Forest, North Carolina, was probably the result of a stress condition initiated in 1963 by lower than normal February temperatures and subsequently aggravated by an unusual series of extremely dry summers starting in 1968 and worsening in 1973-78. These conditions caused irreversible damage to some trees on upper slopes and many trees died. Little subsequent decline or death has occurred among surviving trees.
4033759|Long-term herb layer studies require nondestructive sampling, with species identified by above-ground characters. The purpose of this study was to determine the above-ground vegetative characters that best differentiate West Virginia members of Dentaria diphylla, D. heterophylla, and D. laciniata. Eleven morphological characters were measured on West Virginia herbarium specimens and data were subjected to canonical discriminant analysis and analysis of variance. Results showed that species fell into three distinct groups with length and width of basal and cauline leaflets as the most important characters for identification. Dentaria laciniata was identified by its lack of basal leaves and its long, narrow cauline leaflets. The basal leaflets of D. diphylla were similar to but larger than its cauline leaflets whereas the basal leaflets of D. heterophylla were much wider than its cauline leaflets. This study confirmed that these West Virginia members of the Dentaria complex may be identified using above-ground characters, and we provide a key to West Virginia Dentaria species using these characters.
4032704|Andre Michaux was one of the most important personalities in the botanical explorations in the 18th century in America, this being especially true for his work in the Carolinas. His Flora Boreali-Americana was the first North American Flora to be published. All the plants that appear in his Flora were collected personally by Michaux, truly a unique feature of his work.
4033514|North Carolina has a diverse hepatic flora with 196 taxa of which 60 (31%) are considered rare. Rare species are those represented by very few collections and restricted by ecological requirements or by sensitivity to critical habitat destruction. These taxa are concentrated in the high elevation mountains, the southern escarpment gorges and the southeastern coastal plain. The rare liverworts are categorized into 1) those endemic to limited areas of eastern North America, 2) those disjunct from other populations, and 3) those which occur on the northern or southern limits of their range. North Carolina distributions are given and some factors contributing to the scarcity of these plants are discussed.
4033968|Thirty-nine vascular plant taxa and one new family (Elatinaceae) are newly reported with vouchers for the flora of South Carolina. These include 30 monocots (14 of which are Cyperaceae), and 19 dicots. In addition, an appendix is provided which lists 318 taxa with literature citations that have been reported as new for the state since the publication of Manual of the Vascular Flora of the Carolinas.
41416197|Effective conservation requires an understanding of the genetic interactions among populations and individuals of a species, particularly those with fragmented, isolated distributions. Alnus martima (seaside alder) is a rare tree species with an extremely fragmented distribution of highly isolated populations in the Delmarva Peninsula, Georgia, and Oklahoma. We conducted a mating system study to estimate the outcrossing rate, inbreeding coefficient, biparental inbreeding rate, and correlation of paternity in progeny from a Georgia and an Oklahoma population to investigate the effects of isolation on the A. martima mating system. Data from nine microsatellite loci showed similarly high multilocus outcrossing rates in both populations (t m = 0.94). Individual tree outcrossing rates were also high (t m = 0.873-1.047). There was no significant biparental inbreeding in either population, but there was significantly higher correlated paternity in the Oklahoma population. Results showed the high outcrossing expected for a wind-pollinated, monoecious species that can promote the maintenance of genetic variation detected in A. martima seed pools and standing populations. Likewise, pollen flow among Oklahoma populations may promote maintenance of regional genetic variation. However, despite the genetic diversity in the seed pool generated by A. martima's highly outcrossed mating system, failure of new individuals to be recruited into populations from seed presents an obstacle that will need to be considered when developing conservation strategies for this rare species.
4033231|The rarity of fourteen species of plants in the Coastal Plain of South Carolina is considered in light of recent collections. Many of these taxa are thought to be rare, but the evidence presented here indicates that they may simply be overlooked. One state record and nineteen county records, two of which are South Carolina Coastal Plain records, are listed below.
4033387|The treatment of Vaccinium L. in the Flora of West Virginia by Strausbaugh and Core is slightly revised. The number of species in the state is reduced from ten to eight and all infraspecific categories except two formae are abandoned. New county records and limited notes on morphology, taxonomy, and distribution are presented. A key is offered which stresses vegetative characters.
4033758|Isoetes hyemalis, sp. nov., is described from deciduous and mixed forest swamps in the southeastern United States. Populations are known from Virginia, South Carolina, and North Carolina, with the greatest number occurring in the latter. The tetraploid I. hyemalis is found primarily on the Coastal Plain, with a few populations occurring in lower elevation Piedmont streams. Ecological, morphological, and geographic characteristics are described and discussed. Speculation on the origins and affinities of this new species is offered.
4033499|Popcorn disease, known to be caused by Ciboria carunculoides (Siegler and Jenkins) Whetzel, was observed on a single white mulberry tree (Morus alba L.) growing in south central Kentucky. The disease was not found on other white or red (Morus rubra L.) mulberries growing nearby. Diseased fruits were significantly (P<0.01) heavier, longer, and wider than normal fruits. On the lower branches, approximately one-half of the berries were diseased, whereas the proportion of diseased fruits decreased in the higher branches.
4032752|The hypothesis of Black, Chen and Brown that C
4033568|During two growing seasons, the monthly biomass was determined for the dominant plants at three tidal marshes within the lower Pearl River basin, Louisiana. There were differences between the two growing seasons in ecological dominance and production. Ten species (Spartina patens, Sagittaria lancifolia, Phyla nodiflora, Peltandra virginica, Vigna luteola, Saururus cernuus, Polygonum sagittatum, Panicum gymnocarpon, and Eleocharis spp.) accounted for 98% of the marsh productivity. Using the Smalley method, net aboveground primary production was 1241 g/m
4033012|The flower pigments of Hexastylis virginica and H. heterophylla are identical but differ markedly from those of Asarum canadense. The anthocyanin pigments of the Hexastylis species are complex acylated glycosides of both cyanidin and malvidin. The pigment of Asarum canadense is a simple unacylated glycoside of cyanidin.
4032501|A salt marsh located on the Baruch plantation at Georgetown, South Carolina includes four vegetation zones: the Upper High Marsh, Lower High Marsh, Upper Low Marsh, and Lower Low Marsh. Thirty plants of each of the dominant vegetations in each zone were transplanted into the other three vegetation zones, and thirty plants of each of the dominant species in each zone were dug up and replanted in the same zone to serve as controls. Survival and growth rate of the transplants suggest that several species can tolerate conditions not found in their usual zones for a period of a year or longer. Salicornia virginica of the Lower High Marsh can grow in the Upper Low Marsh for a period of a year while Spartina patens of the Upper High Marsh demonstrated a ten percent survival rate when moved to the Lower High Marsh after a period of two years. The data suggest that there are two forms of Spartina alterniflora, a dwarf occupying the Upper Low Marsh, and a tall occupying the Lower Low Marsh.
4033570|Two species of sunflower (Helianthus grosseserratus and H. rigidus) were investigated to determine phenological, habitat, and morphological separation between them. The two species had overlapping distributions across a habitat gradient and also overlapped in flowering times, although H. rigidus flowered earlier than H. grosseserratus. The two species achieved their maximum abundance on different portions of a topographic gradient, with H. rigidus being more abundant than H. grosseserratus on upper and middle slopes and H. grosseserratus being more abundant on lower slopes and depressions. The two species had relatively distinctive morphologies.
27742926|In 1710 and 1711, naturalist and author John Lawson sent collections of dried plants from eastern North Carolina to James Petiver in England. Two hundred and ninety five of these specimens survived and are maintained in the Sloane Herbarium of the Natural History Museum in London. Many of the specimens bear tags in Lowson's hand giving the date, location, and notes describing use or habitat. One hundred and one taxa are listed here along with discussion of some of the notes that connect Lawson's plant collecting to important events in his life and to the colonial history of North Carolina. The story concerning how these specimens were collected and maintained provides insight into the methods of botanical science in the early eighteenth century.
27742928|Bupleurum L., with ca. 150 species, is one of the largest genera in the Apiaceae (Umbelliferae). The genus has a broad distribution in the Northern Hemisphere, and it is represented in North America by the native and possibly endemic species Bupleurum americanum J.M. Coult. & Rose, and by three introduced species: B. lancifolium Hornem., B. rotundifolium L., and B. odontites L. Here we report the occurrence of a new alien species of the genus in North America: Bupleurum gerardii All. We present a general characterization of the species and discuss the possible origin of the populations that have been found in Tennessee and Virginia. In addition, we confirm the records of B. odontites for the states of Maryland, Massachusetts and Oregon. All previous citations of B. odontites in Virginia refer to material of B. gerardii. The history of the discovery of this species in North America suggests that the treatment of sparingly naturalized taxa in floras is erratic and identifications of these species suspect.
4034009|From 1995 to 1998, we monitored the globally rare perennial Euphorbia purpurea (Raf.) Fern. at three sites in Pennsylvania. Numbers of genets declined in two small populations, with little flowering and no seedling recruitment. In a much larger population (845 to 937 genets), seedling recruitment was high in 1996 and 1998 and compensated for mortality over the four years. Annual survival rates in the large population were >90% for older genets, 62 to 66% for both seedlings and one-year-old plants, and 8.5 to 15% for seeds. Young plants increased little in size between years. Only large ramets flowered. Seeds were dispersed ballistically, and seedlings appeared at distances up to 5.8 m from the parent. White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus Zimmerman) browsed higher proportions of ramets in the two smaller populations and interfered with fruiting. In the large population, plants browsed in 1996 increased substantially less in stem diameter by 1997 than unbrowsed plants.
4033726|Alnus serrulata (Ait.) Willd., an alder species endemic to eastern North America, was investigated for its ability to form ectomycorrhizae with six species of fungi in vitro. Only Hebeloma cf. crustuliniforme and Paxillus involutus formed mycorrhizal sheaths with hartig nets. These two species are associated with Alnus in nature. Two other associated fungi, Alpova diplophloeus and Paxillus filamentosus, did not form ectomycorrhizae in vitro. Two broad host range fungi, Cenococcum geophilum and Pisolithus tinctorius, did not form ectomycorrhizae with A. serrulata. These results support the hypothesis that the genus Alnus is highly specific in its mycorrhizal relationships.
4033812|A forest dominated by chestnut oak and scarlet oak was first sampled in 1971. In 1994 it was resampled to measure compositional changes. Total density of trees decreased 6% and total basal area increased 11%. These changes were small and not significant. Relative importance of the various species, however, changed markedly. Chestnut oak remained dominant, but scarlet oak was replaced by red maple as second dominant. In 1971 scarlet oak composed 17% of stand density and 48% of basal area. In 1994 it had declined to 3% of density and 10% of basal area. Flowering dogwood was moderately abundant in 1971, but in 1994 it had declined to one-fifth its former density. Sapling density increased due to increases in densities of red maple and white pine. White pine, present only as a few seedlings in 1971, composed 34% of sapling density in 1994. The forest, now an oak-maple community, is developing toward an oak-maple-pine community, one similar to a forest that occupied the site over 150 years ago.
4034147|A survey for myxomycetes was conducted within the Radnor Lake State Natural Area, Davidson County, Tennessee from May 5 to October 2, 1994. Fruiting bodies that developed on samples of bark and plant debris placed in moist chamber cultures were used to supplement field collections. The present report deals with 225 specimens representing 57 species of myxomycetes. Three of these (Diderma floriforme, Physarella oblonga, and Comatricha longa) are new reports from Tennessee.
24619554|The Little River National Wildlife Refuge (6,070 ha) is located on the west Gulf Coastal Plain in southeastern Oklahoma, a region of high plant diversity for the state. An inventory of the refuge yielded 708 taxa of vascular plants in 688 species, 410 genera, and 128 families. The largest families were the Asteraceae (n = 88 taxa), Poaceae (n = 76), Cyperaceae (n = 49), and Fabaceae (n =44). Sixty-seven nonnative taxa were collected, representing 9.5% of the flora. Sixty-two taxa were present that are tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory, including the Oklahoma endemic, Leavenworthia aurea var. aurea. In addition, we report the first Oklahoma collection of Polygonum glabrum.
4033089|Twelve natural populations of ginseng (Panax quinquefolium L.) located in four of the major physiographic provinces in Arkansas were studied. Soil samples were analyzed for the major nutrients, pH, percent organic matter and texture. The typical soil on which the populations were found would be classified as a moderately acid clay soil with moderate to high fertility. A typical topographic position would be a gentle to moderately steep, well-drained midslope with a northeastern exposure.
20433963|Lonicera maackii is an invasive Asian shrub naturalized in North America that has negative effects on forest understory vegetation. Aqueous extracts of leaves and roots of this plant have been shown to inhibit germination of several species. In this study, we examined the extent to which field-collected soils conditioned by L. maackii growth, with and without additions of L. maackii extracts, had effects on growth, morphology, and reproduction of Arabidopsis thaliana in a greenhouse setting. We also examined the effects of nutrient addition to the same soils on the performance of A. thaliana, whether plant responses to nutrients varied among L. maackii-conditioned and -unconditioned soils, and whether the effects of L. maackii extracts varied in soils with different histories and fertility. Plants grown in forest soil collected from a site where L. maackii was present grew slower and flowered later than plants grown in an unconditioned soil, but ended up being larger, with more leaves, branches and a higher total seed output. Nutrient addition had a positive effect on performance of A. thaliana, but when nutrients were added with extracts of L. maackii roots and leaves, the positive effects of nutrients were greatly diminished. Inhibiting plant responses to resource opportunities is a potentially important indirect effect of allelochemicals. Where direct effects of extracts on growth were seen, leaf extracts had a greater effect than root extracts. While the most important impacts of L. maackii in the field are undoubtedly due to competition for light and moisture, evidence for allelopathic effects of this plant is growing.
4032558|The 17,000 acre Belle W. Baruch Foundation Plantation of Georgetown County, South Carolina contains fourteen distinct soil series ranging from salt marsh and fresh water marshes to dry sandhills. The vegetation was found to be significantly different on the ten major soil types which comprise 90% of the area. On four hundred-fifty samples studied, 577 species of vascular plants were recorded comprising 297 genera and 113 families.
4032803|Needle, bud and cone characteristics were measured on 164 trees sampled from natural loblolly-shortleaf pine stands in east Texas. Hybrid index, cluster analysis and principal components analysis were used to characterize the morphological variability of the sample population. Results indicated the existence of two relatively distinct populations (loblolly and shortleaf pine). It was concluded that introgression of loblolly and shortleaf pines is not widespread in the area. Introgression with shortleaf pine has been proposed by several workers as an explanation for the apparent rust resistance of east Texas loblolly pine. In view of our conclusions, alternative explanations include: (1) Ancestral hybridization of the two species has been followed by subsequent speciation and separation; (2) Natural selection of rust-resistant loblolly pine has occurred in east Texas; (3) Unfavorable climatic conditions result in low rust infestation in east Texas, while rust resistance of east Texas loblolly pine when grown in other areas results from incompatibility of this race with eastern races of Cronartium fusiforme.
4033459| Leading dominants and size-class distribution analyses were performed on the vegetation data from 483 20  50 meter forest plots from the Bristol Hills of New York. Both analyses indicated the lack of replacement of Quercus species except on burned sites. Acer saccharum and A. rubrum are increasing in importance in Quercus dominated plots. Aggrading upland forests of this region are tending towards one of three mature forest types. Tsuga canadensis, Acer saccharum forests are found in ravines, and wet areas at streamsides and around beaver ponds. Acer saccharum, Fagus grandifolia forests are found on lower elevation slopes. Upper slope forests are tending towards an increase of Acer rubrum in Quercus rubra and Q. prinus dominated stands. 
4032725|Two newly discovered sites of Tsuga canadensis in Harrison Co., Indiana are described floristically and ecologically. This locality brings to twelve the number of counties in Indiana containing Tsuga canadensis.
4033488|Neviusia alabamensis Gray (Rosaceae), considered one of the rarest shrubs in North America, is endemic to the southeastern United States. Currently, the species is classified as category 2 on the Federal Register and is on state threatened and endangered species lists in Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Tennessee. Although several new populations were located during this study, the species should be federally protected due to the limited number of populations, small size of several populations, and potentially threatened location of some of the populations.
4033661|We examined effects of fire on nutrient concentrations and standing crops in Juncus roemerianus and Spartina bakeri marshes by sampling biomass from 25 plots (0.25 m
20433965|The vascular plants of the Berea College Forest (BCF), the oldest managed forest in Kentucky, are presented as an annotated species list. BCF is comprised of 3,380 ha in Madison, Jackson, and Rockcastle counties of east-central Kentucky. Forests and diverse habitats include western mesophytic forest, mixed mesophytic forest, oak-hickory forest, mixed oak-Virginia pine forest, secondary succession areas, wetland habitats, and many anthropogenic-influenced areas. The known vascular plants consist of 1,017 specific and infraspecific taxa, 513 genera, and 139 families. Classification divisions with species are Equisetophyta (2), Lycopodiophyta (4), Polypodiophyta (33), Pinophyta (13), and Magnoliophyta (965). One hundred ninety-six taxa (19.27%) are naturalized, persisting, adventive, or cultivated exotics. The Asteraceae (141), Poaceae (100), Cyperaceae (64), and Fabaceae (56) are the largest families.
4032556|A mature stand of mesic southern mixed hardwoods was sampled using the quarter method for trees and quadrats for the shrubs. The relative dominance, the relative density and the relative frequency were determined for the trees. The most important tree genera were Fagus, Magnolia, Quercus, Liquidambar, Carya, and Pinus. The most abundant shrub was Illicium floridanum. The predominant tree groups were beech, magnolia, oak, sweetgum, hickory and pine, although pines were established only during the early stages of succession. The species found correlated closely with the 1810 survey witness trees. The forest is in a late stage of succession. It has been almost entirely excluded from large disturbing factors, although small areas are constantly reverting to an earlier stage of succession, mostly through the opening of the canopy caused by dead or fallen trees.
4033640|A survey was made of the vascular flora of Little Talbot Island State Park, encompassing the entire island of approximately 2,350 acres (951 ha). The plant communities on this barrier island are influenced dynamically by marine environmental forces and exhibit comparatively little biological diversity. Collections of 289 vascular plant species, representing genera in 89 families, were made from February 1990 to September 1992 and are compiled in an annotated list. Voucher specimens have been placed at FLAS; a second set of vouchers will be distributed at a later time. It is hoped that this list of taxa (and the herbarium specimens) will provide a useful resource for those interested in the flora and ecology of barrier islands.
20433893|Algae associated with leafy liverworts growing on decorticated red spruce (Picea rubens Sarg.) logs were investigated at study sites in the mountains of West Virginia and the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Twelve taxa (nine cyanobacteria, two green algae and one diatom) were identified, but the microhabitat represented by the samples we examined was dominated by just three taxa, two cyanobacteria (Chroococcus tenax and Aphanothece saxicola) along with the green alga Chlorococcum humicola. The relative abundance and consistent presence of these organisms in this microhabitat suggest that they could represent a possible food source for certain species of myxomycetes with which they co-occur.
20433951|A total of 519 plant taxa have been added to the known flora of Great Falls Park, Fairfax County, Virginia, since the vascular flora was first published more than 30 yr ago. Species erroneously reported from the Park are noted. To date, 1,015 vascular plant taxa representing 1,002 species, eight infraspecific taxa, and five hybrids from 492 genera in 139 families have been documented within the Park. Of these, 76 are known only from historical specimens. Twenty-three of the documented plants are listed as rare in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Non-native taxa comprised 19.8% of the vascular flora in the Park. Ecological community types of the Park are described and listed for each associated taxon.
4032991|Fimbristylis vahlii, Hemicarpha micrantha, Hydrocotyle verticillata, and Oldenlandia uniflora are reported for Tennessee for the first time. New county records and distributions are given for other infrequently collected taxa.
4032770|Betula uber (Ashe) Fernald, unknown as a living plant for over 60 years and thought to be extinct, has been rediscovered in Smyth County, Virginia. It is represented by one known population consisting of 12 mature trees, one sapling, and 21 seedlings. Details relative to its history, rediscovery, habit, habitat, and common name are given.
27742894|The requirement for heat shock to break physical dormancy of hard seeds is a widely known strategy for recruitment in fire maintained ecosystems. Despite extensive work by fire ecologists in the southeastern United States, heat shock response has been demonstrated for only a few eastern North American temperate species. In this study germination responses to dry and wet heat were investigated for three species with physical dormancy: Galactia regularis (Fabaceae), Lupinus perennis (Fabaceae), and Rhus copallinum (Anacardiaceae). Control, wet heat (1 min boiling), and dry heat (10 min at 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, and 110C) treatments were independently applied in the laboratory. Maximum germination occurred at 80C for G. regularis and L. perennis and was significantly greater than both control and boiling treatments. For R. copallinum, maximum germination occurred at 90C for all populations investigated and was significantly greater than the control group in three of four populations. Heat shock germination may play a larger role in post fire recruitment in the flora of the eastern United States than currently recognized.
4033244|Aconitum uncinatum L. (Ranunculaceae) is reported for the first time for the state of Ohio. It grows in a mesic cove on the unglaciated Appalachian Plateau of Hocking County. The Ohio plants belong to the typical subspecies of A. uncinatum. The habitat is described and population specifics given. Aconitum uncinatum is officially listed as Endangered under Ohio law.
4033008|The vegetation of a nonglaciated Sphagnum bog in West Virginia was sampled using quadrats, during the summer of 1977. Percent cover was estimated for each moss, herb, and shrub species. A minimum variance cluster analysis of the data distinguished four community types: Sphagnum-Eriophorum virginicum, Sphagnum-shrub, Polytrichum-shrub and Polytrichum-Carex canescens. The vegetation of each community and the spatial pattern of community distribution within the bog is discussed.
4034016|A forested wetland type unusual for the Piedmont was discovered in northern Wake County, North Carolina in May 1997. The 3.0 ha wetland existed on Wehadkee silt loam that was continuously saturated by groundwater seepage from surrounding slopes. The wetland plant community was best described as either a Nyssa biflora--Liriodendron tulipifera--Pinus (serotina, taeda)/Lyonia lucida--Ilex glabra Forest (Sandhill Streamhead Swamp) or an Acer rubrum var. trilobum / Myrica heterophylla--Gaylussacia frondosa / Andropogon glomeratus--(Sarracenia flava) Woodland (Hillside Seepage Bog), community types that are globally rare or imperiled, respectively. Approximately 20% of the N. biflora population in the wetland were older than 200 yr; the oldest individuals were 280 yr old. The sympatric occurrence of N. biflora, Pinus serotina, Magnolia virginiana, Ilex glabra, Lindera subcoriacea, Smilax laurifolia, Woodwardia virginica, Eleocharis tuberculosa, and Lindernia dubia var. anagallidea, taxa with primarily Coastal Plain distributions, was unusual for the Piedmont. Information from herbarium specimens, county soil surveys, National Wetland Inventory maps, Natural Heritage Program files, and site visits suggested that approximately only five other examples of this wetland type, at the most, currently exist in the Piedmont of North Carolina. Unfortunately, the study wetland was destroyed in December 1997 by a road construction project.
4033898|Lycopus cokeri Ahles, a narrow endemic to the Sandhills region of North and South Carolina, was never validly published, although included in the Guide to the Vascular Flora of the Carolinas (Radford, Ahles, and Bell 1964). Field and herbarium studies have shown that this taxon is morphologically distinct from related taxa, that it occupies a unique range and habitat, and that it is valid at the species level. A Latin diagnosis is provided to validate publication. A key to Carolinian Lycopus is given.
4033646|Carex pumila, a widespread seacoast sandbinder in the Old World, was collected several times as a waif in Oregon shortly after the turn of the century and, more recently, at two sites in North Carolina. The collections were usually misdetermined as the European C. hirta. At least one of the North Carolina populations is still extant, although the site has been heavily disturbed. The plant is inconspicuous, and quite possibly more frequent than the few collections suggest. However, since it evidently has never spread beyond isolated, single colonies, it probably will not become a serious pest.
4032971|Hypericum graveolens and H. mitchellianum are sympatric in the high mountains of North Carolina and Tennessee. In this region three areas were found where few to many individuals were judged to be morphologically intermediate between the putative parents. These three populations as well as five populations of each of the putative parents were studied through morphological analysis. Breeding experiments conducted in the field as well as in the Botanical Garden showed that the hybrids produced experimentally were morphologically similar to the natural populations of intermediate plants. Hybridization must be occurring naturally to form the observed intermediates.
4032664|Morphological and cytological variation in Aster acuminatus Michx. was observed in populations located in the southern Appalachians. Results indicated that A. acuminatus in closed, shady habitats had morphological variation typical of the species, with normal meiosis and high pollen stainability. A. acuminatus in open, exposed habitats was more variable morphologically, with abortive meiotic figures and low pollen stainability. The variation was indicative of genetic contact with Aster nemoralis Ait., which is sympatric with A. acuminatus in the northeastern United States, but absent in the southern Appalachians.
41416187|Previous research has found significant differences in flowering time between sympatric, non-hybridizing populations of congeners in the genus Gelsemium (Gelsemium sempervirens and G. rankinii). An experimental approach using a common garden, reciprocal transplant experiments, and observations of natural populations were used to test the hypothesis that soil environmental variables (soil moisture and soil temperature) related to habitat specificity of the two species influence differences in flowering phenology. Replicated pairs of both species were planted into a common garden and into wet and dry habitats that typify the two species (dry for earlier flowering G. sempervirens and wet for later flowering G. rankinii). Two sites with sympatric natural populations of both species were also studied for comparison. The number of open flowers was counted every two weeks in 2007 and 2008 in all sites and in 2009 for the reciprocal transplant experiment. Soil moisture and soil temperature varied by site, date, habitat, and species but was not consistently related to flowering phenology across sites or species. Compared to natural conditions, plants in the common garden and experimental transplant populations did not show significant changes in differences in flowering times, suggesting that flowering phenology is under genetic control and is not influenced by soil environmental conditions.
27742921|Irregularly disturbed forests surrounding crop fields in agricultural landscapes often serve as ecological buffers that separate undesirable agricultural elements such as agrichemicals and weedy species from adjacent ecosystems. However, the nature of this interface between fields and forests remains little studied, particularly within the context of how species composition changes with field distance and how far exotic species penetrate into forest interiors. In three agricultural landscapes in the North Carolina Piedmont, we surveyed plant communities in multi-scale, nested quadrats arrayed along transects perpendicular to field boundaries and penetrating &gt;200 m into adjacent forests. Rates of species turnover, patterns of species richness, and the distribution of exotic species were assessed for 18 transects. Plant communities exhibited high rates of compositional turnover within 50 m of field boundaries, but species turnover was considerably reduced beyond this threshold. Vegetation composition within borders immediately adjacent to cornfields was dominated by a relatively predictable set of weedy forb and graminoid species, of which a substantial proportion was exotic. Composition of surrounding forest communities more reflected local environmental conditions and contained few exotic species overall. Species richness was not influenced by field proximity. We suggest that agricultural influences on landscape-scale vegetation patterns are most apparent in plant communities located very close (&lt;50 m) to continuous agricultural operations. Although weed communities associated with agricultural management are represented by a large pool of exotic species, relatively few of these species are able to penetrate forest boundaries.
4034154|Invasive non-native species are important because of the potential negative ecological and economic effects that they have. Because of the number and variety of invasive species, it is important to prioritize them in terms of their presence in and their potential impacts on natural ecosystems. At least 167 non-native, invasive plant species occur on the United States Department of Energy Oak Ridge National Environmental Research Park, Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Our objective was to assess the distribution, abundance, impact, and potential for control of 18 of the most abundant invasive species on the Research Park. In 2000, we conducted field surveys of 16 Research Park management areas to acquire qualitative and quantitative data on the distribution and abundance of these taxa. Survey results were used to rank the relative importance of these species using a quantitative ranking system developed by the United States Geological Survey. Microstegium vimineum, Japanese honeysuckle (Lonicera japonica), and Chinese privet (Ligustrum sinense) were ranked first, second, and third-most problematic, respectively. Other non-native, invasive species, in decreasing rank order, included kudzu (Pueraria lobata), multiflora rose (Rosa multiflora), and Chinese lespedeza (Lespedeza cuneata). Results can be used to prioritize management and research activities related to these invasive taxa on the Research Park.
4033331|The circumstances and motives for the botanical expedition of Moses Ashley Curtis into the North Carolina mountains in 1839 are explored. The trip resulted in proposals of several new species of flowering plants, as well as in specimens of taxa previously collected by Michaux, Fraser, and Nuttall. Curtis communicated his experiences by way of letters to his wife and others, previously unpublished. Curtis was able to advise Asa Gray and Samuel Buckley on their later expeditions and the taxa Curtis saw were included in his later important publication on the North Carolina flora. His mountain experience helped to shape him into the leading regional botanical figure of the mid-19th century.
4033334|The vascular flora of a wet meadow consisting of approximately 8 hectares (20 acres) in the northeastern section of Barbour County, West Virginia was studied 1979-1986. The flora consists of 113 taxa, 83 genera, and 38 families. The meadow is mowed annually in late summer. Most species maintained themselves while a few disappeared over an eight year period. Of particular interest are the coastal plain-mountain disjunct species, namely, Carex swanii, Cleistes divaricata, Habenaria ciliaris, Juncus canadensis, J. diffusissimus, Gaultheria procumbens, Rhynchospora capitellata, Rubus hispidus, and Spiranthes cernua, and eight species which occur that are considered to be threatened, rare, or of special concern in West Virginia. They are: Andropogon glomeratus, Aster solidagineus, Athyrium filix-femina subsp. angustum, Cleistes divaricata, Scleria triglomerata, Spiranthes grayi, Rhynchospora globularis, and Xyris torta. The Nature Conservancy listed the meadow, known as Beavers Meadow, in the West Virginia Registry of Natural Areas October 1983.
40792816|The spring seed bank in a red maple bottomland swamp along the Chadakoin River in western New York was examined. Soil samples were collected at 13 microtopographically defined microsites and placed in a greenhouse for a seed bank emergence study. Mean emergent seed density was 1,037/m with a total of 2,179 seedlings emerging. A total of 81 species were identified, 18 of which were non-native. Seed bank composition was dominated by the forbs Boehmeria cylindrica, Lysimachia nummularia, and Scutellaria lateriflora. Of the seed bank species 23% were woody trees, shrubs and vines, 46% were perennial forbs, 16% were perennial graminoids, and 15% were annuals and biennials. Microsites varied in seed bank density with elevated moss, swale, mossy stump, mossy tree hummock and mossy root containing 58.3% of the emergent seedlings. Detrended Correspondence Analysis showed that berm and stump microsites differed in seed bank composition from the other microsites which were very similar to each other. The extant swamp vegetation, with 68 species in nineteen 100 m plots had 39 species in common with the seed bank. Seeds of the dominant woody species (Acer xfreemanii, Fraxinus pennsylvanica and Ulmus americana) were present in the seed bank. The Sorenson-Dice index of similarity between the species composition of the standing vegetation and the soil seed bank based on presence/absence data was 0.347. This moderate level of similarity indicates that Bonita swamp is a mid-successional forested wetland.
4033645|Potted seedlings of red maple (Acer rubrum L.), redbay (Persea borbonia (L.) Spreng.), and Chinese tallow (Sapium sebiferum (L.) Roxb.) were subjected to flooding with saltwater for 0 to 5 days. Red maple and redbay seedlings were very susceptible to saltwater flooding and were unable to tolerate more than 1 day of flooding. Chinese tallow seedlings, on the other hand, were able to tolerate saltwater well (60% survival after 5 days of flooding). Height growth of red maple and redbay seedlings was low (0.6 and 3.4 cm, respectively) during the eight week study even for those seedlings not exposed to saltwater. Unflooded Chinese tallow seedlings, however, grew 20.7 cm during the eight week observation period. Diameter growth of flooded seedlings along with biomass of shoot, leaf, and root components in all three species was significantly reduced by saltwater flooding. Biomass partitioning of surviving seedlings was not appreciably affected by saltwater flooding. Chinese tallow seems to be able to tolerate salinity fairly well and may become a dominant species of southern coastal forests.
4032335|An attempt is made to list all of the vascular plants known to occur in Wyoming County, West Virginia. A diverse flora is shown, which includes plants of more northern mountainous areas as well as those that occur in southern areas. One hundred sixteen families, four hundred fifty genera and nine hundred twenty-six species, varieties and forms, are listed.
41416182|Conversion to agriculture and plantations, development, and fire suppression have reduced the extent of savannas in the southeastern United States, and there is a need to catalog and classify the remaining savannas for both restoration and resource management purposes. The Big Savannah was a wet savanna in North Carolina that was destroyed in the 1950s, and subsequent vegetation classifications have generally not accommodated well the unique natural plant community of the Big Savannah. Vegetation reminiscent of that described for the Big Savannah was discovered north of the original site and designated as Wells Savannah. To evaluate the uniqueness of the savanna vegetation at Wells Savannah, we compiled a data set from permanent quadrats with information on vegetation and environmental variables from other Outer Coastal Plain savannas to compare with similar data from the natural community at Wells Savannah. We also inventoried an additional 26 quadrats on a tract adjacent to Wells Savannah that had experienced fire suppression. Results from multivariate analyses demonstrated clear differences between the Wells Savannah quadrats and other regional wet savanna quadrats based on both vegetation and soils. A number of species and several soil characteristics (higher clay percentage, and higher available iron and boron) distinguish Wells Savannah from other wet savannas. Although the fire suppressed quadrats near Wells Savannah had lower species richness, typical savanna species such as Ctenium aromaticum and Calamovilfa brevipilis were still present. Further exploration of fire-suppressed tracts in the area may yield more wet savanna inclusions similar to the former Big Savannah.
4033694|Indiana barrens are defined as terrestrial ecosystems where edaphic drought and infertility prevail. Causative factors for dryness include excessive drainage due to soil particle size (e.g., sand), southern or western aspect of site, excessive steepness of slope, presence of a hardpan or bedrock at or near surface, and fire. Soil chemistry is an important regulating factor of barrens vegetation, as most barrens are nutrient deficient. Barrens vegetation consists of a varied admixture of shrubs, small trees, grasses and forbs adapted to drought; such vegetation is commonly in the form of open scrub, but physiognomy alone does not define the community, because barrens may range from mostly graminoid to possessing a closed canopy (this dependent on substrate, and fire history or other environmental perturbations). A rather consistent suite of species characterize each type of Indiana barrens, depending on the type of substrate and the geographic location within the state. Chert, limestone, sandstone, siltstone, gravel, clay, and sand are types of barrens known to occur in Indiana.
4032342|Inconsistencies in interpretation of rare, unique and endangered vascular plant species are elaborated and examples of each case are given. A list of eleven criteria for decision--making in selection of rare, unique, and endangered species is suggested.
20433935|Vegetation of the Braidwood Dunes and Savanna Nature Preserve in Will County, Illinois, was studied during the growing seasons of 2004 and 2005. Located in the northeastern part of the Kankakee sand deposits, this site is a small remnant of sand prairie and sand savanna vegetation that once contained extensive marsh, wet, mesic, and dry sand prairie communities. The dry sand prairie was dominated by Schizachyrium scoparium with an Importance Value (IV) of 33.3 (200 possible) followed by Opuntia humifusa and Dichanthelium villosissimum with IV's of 23.9 and 20.3, respectively. In the dry-mesic sand prairie Solidago nemoralis (IV of 24.7) and Schizachyrium scoparium (IV of 23.8) were co-dominant. Two distinct ground layer communities were encountered in the dry-mesic sand savanna, one dominated by Pteridium aquilinum, and one where this species was absent. The dominant overstory species was Quercus velutina along with a few individuals of Q. alba. Woody overstory averaged 188.1 stems/ha, with a basal area of 15.57 m/ha. A few small sedge meadows occurred in the Preserve. Carex stricta dominated these sedge meadows with an IV of 44.5, with Helianthus grosseserratus, Thelypteris palustris, and Galium obtusum also common. A total of 448 vascular plant taxa were found on the Preserve, 13 fern and fern-allies, one gymnosperm, 120 monocots, and 314 dicots. Fifty-four exotic taxa were encountered, representing about 13% of the species found.
4033566|The original Southern Mixed Hardwood Forest data gathered by Elsie Quarterman and Catherine Keever for their paper on the forests of the southeastern United States Coastal Plain were reanalyzed using ordination techniques not available in 1962. When importance percent of the broadly distributed successional species Pinus taeda was deleted, detrended correspondence analysis produced an interpretable ordination of 27 stands. Fagus grandifolia is concentrated at the opposite end of an X axis from Quercus hemisphaerica Bartr. (= Q. laurifolia of Quarterman and Keever), with soils sandier and with lower available minerals at the Q. hemisphaerica end. Carya glabra and Liquidambar styraciflua concentrations overlap both of the above species. Quercus alba and Carya tomentosa are concentrated on the lower (drier?) end of the Y axis, with Magnolia grandiflora on the upper half of that axis and Pinus glabra at the extreme upper end. Quercus falcata and Q. stellata are concentrated at the lower end of the Y axis, and Q. nigra is broadly scattered over the ordination. The most abundant understory species, Cornus florida, is more important in the lower (drier?) portion of the ordination, and the second most important understory species, Ostrya virginica, is most important in the upper portion of the ordination. Nyssa sylvatica and the understory species Ilex opaca do not have interpretable patterns across the ordination. No geographical patterns or recognizable vegetational subdivisions emerge.
4033569| Mean phytoplankton cell concentrations and cell volumes are given for four stations sampled during October and December in the Elizabeth River. Skeletonema costatum is a dominant species, with other diatoms, cryptomonads, and cyanobacteria (<3 m) forming the most characteristic and dominant assemblages. In comparison to studies made over 20 years ago, diatoms and cryptomonads have remained dominant, with an increased presence of smaller sized diatoms and phytoflagellates. 
41416184|Most typical rock outcrop plants of the eastern United States occur either on calcareous or on non-calcareous outcrops, but not both. Often this is because their growth is inhibited in soil from the non-native substrate, as shown in this study for the granite outcrop endemic sedge Cyperus granitophilus when grown on limestone soil. For those rock outcrop species that can exploit both calcareous and non-calcareous substrates, it might be expected that they would do so by substrate specialization, with each population growing better on its native substrate than the other substrate. However, in most previously tested species, populations from both substrates grow well on the same substrate and both are inhibited on the second substrate. Populations found on the second substrate, though inhibited, are nevertheless able to maintain good health and grow sufficiently to maintain themselves there. In this study we show that the widespread sedge Cyperus aristatus (= C. inflexus), a regular component of limestone, sandstone, granite, chert, and serpentine rock outcrop communities in the eastern United States, exploits both calcareous and non-calcareous substrates by substrate specialization, something previously shown in only one other eastern United States rock outcrop species.
4033542|All previous investigators have reported Nitella flexilis (L.) Ag. as the dominant macrophyte in Mountain Lake, Virginia. Reevaluation of these earlier studies along with detailed morphological measurements and chromosome counts on fresh collections and cultured material from the lake now indicates N. megacarpa T.F.A. as the monospecific population.
24619559|Trillium tennesseense is described as a newly discovered member of Trillium subgen. Phyllantherum. The new species resembles the recently described T. oostingii but differs from it by having a shorter ovary, relatively longer staminal filaments and stigmas, and crested-undulate stigmatic surfaces. A chromosome count of 2n = 10 was obtained for it, which agrees with other members of the genus and subgenus. Sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer and the plastid trnH-psbA spacer regions provided further evidence of the distinctiveness of T. tennesseense. A phylogeny estimate based on these markers is presented for T. subgen. Phyllantherum which agrees well with the major species groups that have been previously recognized in the subgenus. Trillium tennesseense and T. oostingii were placed in the molecular-based phylogeny in a clade with T. lancifolium and T. recurvatum, two species that formed a previously recognized species group. Trillium tennesseense is currently known only from three locations, all occurring on the Sevier Shale formation on the northwest slope of the southeastern extension of Bays Mountain in Hamblen and Hawkins Counties, Tennessee. Based on its rarity, T. tennesseense should be considered as globally rare and in need of protection.
41301584|Among herbaceous species of Hypericum with surficially glandular-punctate leaves and quadrate, narrowly winged stems, the five taxa of the "Hypericum denticulatum complex" of southeastern United States have in common petals that are strongly inequilateral, orange-yellow, ca. 1 cm long and 0.5 cm wide; stamens numerous (50-80); and styles comparatively long (2-4 mm). Three of the species are obligate wetland plants: H. denticulatum, H. harperi, and H. erythreae. The last-named, until now wrongly synonymized, is a species of the Atlantic Coastal Plain of southeastern Georgia and, historically, southern South Carolina. It resembles the mostly more northern H. denticulatum in having oppressed or ascending leaves that are shorter than their internodes and in growing in boggy habitats, but is a taller plant that also differs by its notably sparse leaves that are distinctly reduced upward and on average proportionately narrower. The remaining two species are obligate upland plants: H. virgatum and H. radfordiorum sp. nov., the latter endemic to granite outcrops in or near the Brushy Mountains (inner Piedmont of North Carolina). It is like H. virgatum in having upper leaf surfaces much less conspicuously glandular-punctate than the lower, but in H. radfordiorum the leaves average longer and more acuminate, the stems are distinctly glandular-punctate, and many of the upper leaf axils bear flowering branches with leaves longer than their internodes.
4032459|Comparison of the mean weight per hundred fruits of fourteen widely separated populations demonstrated a cline with fruit from the northern provenances (Minnesota, New York, Canada, Iowa) being heavier than the fruit from the southern provenances (Arkansas, Texas, South Carolina). Caloric content remained fairly constant among populations (avg. of 5,092 cal/g) except when compared on a calorie per fruit basis.
4033642|The vegetation of wet creek bottom communities present at the headwaters or along the margins of creeks in eastern Texas was analyzed using the plot method. A polar ordination of the 20 communities resulted in a northern group and a southern group. The northern group was characterized by Magnolia virginiana and Nyssa sylvatica as overstory dominants with a shrub layer composed primarily of Myrica heterophylla, Alnus serrulata, and Itea virginica. The southern group was dominated by Nyssa sylvatica and Magnolia virginiana in the overstory with a shrub layer of Cyrilla racemiflora and Ilex coriacea. Smilax laurifolia was an important vine in both groups. Although species diversity and evenness values were generally high for all communities, the northern group had significantly higher diversity and evenness values than the southern group.
4032811|Aneilema keisak, Petrorhagia prolifer, and Didiplis diandra are reported for Tennessee for the first time. New county records and distributions are given for other infrequently collected taxa.
4033245|This paper presents chromosome numbers for twelve species of Aster from Virginia. Camera lucida drawings are given for Aster cordifolius L. (n=16), A. divaricatus L. (n=9), A. infirmus Michx. (n=9, 2n=18), A. laevis L. (n=24), A. novae-angliae L. (n=5), A. oblongifolius Nutt. (n=5), A. patens Ait. (n=10), A. paternus Cronquist (n=9, 2n=18), A. pilosus Willd. (n=24), A. prenanthoides Muhl (n=16), A. puniceus L. (n=8), and A. simplex Willd. (n=16; 32). The chromosome number for A. infirmus Michx. is reported for the first time. Data on the remaining eleven species are compared with chromosome number reports for the taxa in other North American locations.
4032918|Some Ohio specimens of Lindernia have been difficult to place in either L. dubia (L.) Pennell or L. anagallidea (Michx.) Pennell. Application of Pennell's key characters to a sample of Ohio herbarium specimens shows most specimens either to have character states between the two species extremes or to have combinations of characters from both species. It is suggested that, pending further study, Ohio specimens are best treated as belonging to one variable species, Lindernia dubia s.l.
27742914|As awareness and interest in canebrake restoration activities in the southeastern United States continues to grow, we are faced with numerous challenges. The greatest of these challenges is obtaining enough germplasm to support restoration activities. Three propagation methods are reported in an effort to begin to elicit information regarding propagation of rivercane. Experiments to optimize micro-propagation, seed germination, and macropropagation methods were compared. Tissue culture (rapid clonal multiplication) has great potential for production of large numbers of propagules. Production of shoots has been optimized, using 4-6 mm diameter explants on MS media, containing 0.1 M IBA (indole-3-butyric acid) and 0.01 M TDZ (thidiazuron). However, the process is hampered by the current inability to generate roots. Maximizing seed germination offers the ability to exploit seed produced on existing canebrakes. Of the six temperature regimes tested on two populations, maximum germination occurred using roll towels, under a 35/25 or 30/20C temperature regime. Removal of lemma and palea from the seed increased germination percentage for one of the populations. Macropropagation from rhizome sections derived from stock maintained in pot-in-pot container production allowed for relatively easy harvest. Rhizome sections 2-3 nodes in length soaked for 60 minutes in warm water or 1000 ppm BAP (6-benzylaminopurine) showed greatest shooting yield. Individual mother plants have the potential to yield 400 viable clones. While each method had its apparent strengths, only the macro-propagation method showed immediate promise.
4033777|Nepal Microstegium Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) Camus occurs in all counties and Baltimore City in Maryland, and in adjacent Washington, D.C. This Asiatic grass is abundant in the central part of the State and less so toward the western and eastern parts of the State. Primary habitats are partially shaded roadbanks, firetrails and logging roads, and mesic and floodplain woodlands. Secondary habitats are fields in utility rights-of-way, thickets, ditches, and it rarely occurs in wetlands and gardens. Flowering and fruiting occurs over a 10 day to 2 week period in September or October in the Maryland/D.C. area.
41416200|A study of seed coat micromorphology, using both light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy, revealed characters of taxonomic significance and utility among the species of Eriocaulaceae of the United States and Canada. Our survey of nine native species of Eriocaulon, five Lachnocaulon, and one Syngonanthus revealed diversity in the shape and size of the cells of the seed coat, the degree and pattern of ornamentation, and appendage shape. In the context of world Eriocaulaceae, the species of the United States and Canada exhibit no morphologies that are unique.
4033136|The breeding system of an Ohio population of Synandra hispidula was investigated. Flowering individuals were subjected to four pollination regimes: 1) isolation inside insect exclosures without further manipulation; 2) self-pollination by hand in a pollinator-free environment; 3) excision of anthers in a pollinator-free environment; 4) open-pollination (control). Regimes 2 and 4 yielded over 80% seed set and did not differ significantly, regime 1 yielded 46% seed set, and regime 3 resulted in no seed production. Synandra is self-compatible and capable of spontaneous autogamy. The rarity of this monotypic genus is not likely the result of poor pollination.
4033626|Marshall Forest is a virgin oak-hickory-pine forest in northwest Georgia that is an assemblage of chestnut oak, pine-oak, and mixed forest communities. A resurvey of permanent plots established 29 years ago within the mixed forest community of the forest indicates that basal area has increased by about 50 percent, at the same time mean stem density has decreased about 27 percent. Decreased species importance is noted for Pinus echinata, Liriodendron tulipifera, and Carya ovata. An increased importance is noted for Acer rubrum and Quercus prinus.
4032661|Alternanthera philoxeroides, Torilis nodosa, Physostegia purpurea, and Stachys floridana are reported for Tennessee for the first time. New county records and distributions are given for other infrequently collected taxa.
4034294|Species composition and relative dominance (cover) were documented in an emergent macrophyte community on recently exposed sediment during an artificial drawdown of a large reservoir in the Coastal Plain of Virginia. Observations included nine county records (New Kent County), four of which were records for the Lower Peninsula of Virginia and are considered state rare species. Dominance calculations by distance class (five-meter increments from the original shoreline to the existing waterline) showed that certain species were locally dominant near the original shoreline (e.g., Fimbristylis autumnalis), whereas others, particularly the state rare species, were more prevalent near the drawdown waterline (e.g., Lipocarpha micrantha). These results suggest that the timing and magnitude of drawdown events may influence recruitment of the species observed in this study. These species appear to form seedbanks in the substrate of the reservoir for long periods of time, and are capable of rapid germination and regeneration (seed set) during short-lived, unpredictable drawdown conditions. Small seed size and other environmental factors accommodate a predisposition to this "temporal" niche. Based on this research and the work of others, we suggest that such species are part of a regional "drawdown flora."
4033047|The Manual of the Vascular Flora of the Carolinas was used to tabulate certain distributional, morphological, and phenological characteristics of the flora of North and South Carolina. Modal (most frequent) characteristics of the flora are: Coastal Plain occurrence (26%), forest habitat (54%), dicotyledonous (68%), deciduous (95%), perennial (76%), herb (81%), herbaceous (84%), perfect (76%), alternate leaves (54%), entire leaves (53%), glabrous (51%), not succulent (98%), not laticiferous (97%), not aromatic (93%), no or inconspicuous perianth (31%), chromosome number (n) = 11-20 (43%), June-blooming (53%), blooming duration 3 months (32%), and not endangered/threatened (88%).
4033169|The flora, vegetation, and subsurface conditions of a unique swamp and savanna wetland are described. Three vegetation zones are present: savanna, Atlantic white cedar swamp, and deciduous swamp. A total of 47, 39, and 42 vascular plant taxa are found within these zones, respectively, including a number of taxa characteristic of "bogs" or other acidic habitats such as Habenaria blephariglottis, H. ciliaris, Pogonia ophioglossoides, Drosera intermedia, and Utricularia sp. The discovery of this swamp and savanna wetland is considered significant in that the site is vegetatively unique in Maryland.
4032896|A relict stand of Tsuga caroliniana is discovered on a north-facing bluff of the Staunton (Roanoke) River in Halifax County, Virginia, the first Piedmont occurrence known for the State. Associated plants are named and brief phytogeographical comments made.
4033784|Helianthus eggertii Small is a little known rare species closely associated with the Interior Low Plateaus Province. It is a distinct hexaploid species closely allied with Helianthus strumosus L., from which it can be distinguished by its blue-glaucous shoots with leaves glabrous, sessile, and single-veined. The taxon has been documented in 13 countries, with most of the 26 known populations clustered in just three physiographic regions in Kentucky and Tennessee; 20 of these populations are newly located. Less than half of the known sites contain large, reproducing populations. The primary habitats are open barrens or open oak-hickory woodlands with a high species richness of native associates. The populations occur on rolling to flat topography, on well drained, shallow, acidic soils, over a substrate of Mississippian limestones. In most populations, the seed set is moderate, but the principle means of reproduction appears to be by an extensive rhizome system. The primary threat to this species appears to be loss of the "barrens" habitats through removal of fire and subsequent competition and succession.
4032634|Thirty isolates of the genus Chlorella were obtained from various environments that represented a gradation in the extent of environmental stress and location. The growth responses (growth or no growth) of these thirty isolates of Chlorella to a variety of metabolic/genetic markers were examined. The isolates were found to be generally grouped according to the environment from which they were isolated, and were not found to be grouped by their taxonomic identification.
4033257|An extensive colony of Asplenium heterochroum was found growing on the 125 year old walls of the Yulee Sugar Mill, Yulee Sugar Mill State Historic Site, Homosassa, Citrus County, Florida. The extremely local and generally rare species normally grows on limestone rocks in woods or grottos and has never been recorded on man-made structures. It was found to be hexaploid (108 pairs at meiotic metaphase) and possessed fronds up to 37 cm in length (twice the stature of previously recorded North America collections).
4032632|Two hundred sixty-two species of vascular plants representing 76 families were collected and identified from six seeps in Calloway County, Kentucky. The six seeps were sampled to determine the vascular plants characteristic of seeps located on various geologic units within the county and to establish indicator species of seeps. Collectively, 33 species have been designated indicators of seeps in Calloway County.
4033103|Overstory, midstory, and understory vegetation was sampled on two watersheds in a mixed mesophytic forest in eastern Kentucky. One watershed had received timber stand improvement by tree girdling approximately 25 years prior to sampling; no trees were girdled on the other watershed. The importance values of species in the overstory and understory vegetation were similar between study areas, but patterns of species importance values in the midstory vegetation differed between study areas. The density of overstory trees was higher in the study area receiving the treatment. Use of timber stand improvement at a frequency greater than 25 years will not significantly increase understory vegetation density or diversity after 25 years, but midstory cover may increase following timber stand improvement over the 25-year period.
4033825|The vascular flora of Wolf Cove and the surrounding Cumberland Plateau in Franklin County, Tennessee, was sampled during two full growing seasons in 1985 and 1986. Eight hundred twelve collections were made comprising 573 species and lesser taxa in 329 genera and 109 families, including 213 county records. The four largest families were the Asteraceae (90 species), Poaceae (41 species), Cyperaceae (39 species), and Fabaceae (29 species). These four families constitute 34.1% of the flora. Twenty-nine species of exotic plants (5.1% of the flora) were collected. Nine taxa are listed as Threatened or Special Concern in Tennessee: Hieracium scabrum, Hydrastis canadensis, Panax quinquefolius, Synandra hispidula, Talinum mengesii/teretifolium, Trichomanes boschianum, Helianthus eggertii, Polymnia laevigata, and Spiranthes ovalis. Two taxa, Helianthus eggertii and Carex purpurifera, are candidates for federal listing (Category 2). Voucher specimens are on deposit at TENN.
4033164|Growth rates and survival of nine different pines and two other conifers, native and/or introduced, are studied, in Maryland's Piedmont Plateau. Also described are different levels of susceptibility to Rhyacionia frustrana.
4034108|The generic names Martiusia Schult., Nauchea Descourt., Ternatea Tourn. ex Mill., Vexillaria Eaton, and Vexillaria Raf. are synonyms of Clitoria L. The name Clitoria pinetorum McFarlin is a synonym of Clitoria fragrans Small. The name Clitoria serrulata B.G. is a synonym of Clitoria ternatea L. var. ternatea. The names Clitoria borealis Transleau & P.E. Williams and Clitoria umbellata Transleau & P.E. Williams are rejected names.
4034192|Ecological life cycles, growth characteristics, and flowering requirements of the two closely-related species Penstemon tenuiflorus and P. hirsutus were compared via a combination of field, greenhouse, and growth chamber studies. In addition, field observations were made on plant-animal interactions involving these two species. Both species are hemicryptophytes that reproduce by seeds and by vegetative offshoots, and their life cycle stages, phenology (where their ranges overlap in northcentral Tennessee), growth characteristics, and flowering requirements are the same. Plants flower in spring, and seeds are mature by late summer; seed dispersal lasts from late summer until early spring. Seeds germinate primarily in early spring, and plants form a rosette their first year; neither species forms a persistent seed bank. In a nonheated greenhouse, plants bolted and flowered in their second year, whereas in the field bolting and flowering are delayed until at least the fourth year. Neither net assimilation rate, relative growth rate, nor eight of 10 other parameters of growth differed between plants of the two species grown under greenhouse conditions. Plants of both species require exposure to several hundred hours of vernalizing temperatures to flower; however, they are indifferent to photoperiod with regard to flowering (i.e., day-neutral). Leaves of P. tenuiflorus are browsed by cottontail rabbits and inflorescences by whitetail deer, and seeds of both species are predated by lepidopteran larvae. Thus, the ecological life cycle, growth characteristics, physiological requirements for development, and plant-animal interactions are very similar in these two taxonomically-distinct species. It seems unlikely that any of these aspects of their autecology accounts for differences between them either in geographical distribution or habitat ecology.
4033295|Specimens of the two cedar (limestone) glade endemics Petalostemon gattingeri (Leguminosae) and Leavenworthia torulosa (Cruciferae) in the Mohr Herbarium at ALU were not examined in recent taxonomic treatments of these genera. Thus, in Alabama, P. gattingeri is reported in the recent literature only from the northwestern part of the state, and L. torulosa is unreported. However, old specimens in the Mohr Herbarium show that, historically, P. gattingeri grew on "bald prairies" and limestone glades in central Alabama and L. torulosa on limestone glades in northern Alabama. Mohr included the yellow-flowered Leavenworthia aurea in his Plant Life of Alabama, and he incorrectly identified a fruiting specimen of L. uniflora as belonging to this species. We suggest that Mohr mistook fruiting plants of L. uniflora growing at Scottsboro in Jackson County for those that then were assignable to L. aurea (now called L. exigua var. lutea) which he had seen flowering at this site in early spring.
4033421| Seeds of the summer annual Tomanthera auriculata (Michx.) Raf. collected in Roane County, Tennessee, were dormant at maturity in October, and thus did not germinate when tested in light (14 h photoperiod) or continuous darkness over a range of (12/12h) thermoperiods from 15(day)/6(night) to 35/20C. Cold stratification was required to break seed dormancy, and the optimum thermoperiod for germination of nondormant seeds was 15/6 or 20/10C. Light was required for germination, and maximum germination percentages were obtained for seed samples that were both cold-stratified and incubated in light. Germination data from soil samples collected in the field in Roane County, Tennessee, and Adams County, Ohio, indicate that seeds can remain viable at population sites for at least 2.5 and 3.5 years, respectively. In a study with seeds collected in Roane County, Tennessee, 75% of those exposed to natural temperature cycles during burial in a nonheated greenhouse became nondormant during winter, and all of them reentered dormancy in summer. During the second winter of burial, only 45% of the seeds became nondormant; however, ungerminated seeds were still viable. The dormancy breaking and germination requirements of T. auriculata are similar to those of some common, geographically widespread species, and thus do not appear to be related to its rarity. 
4034349|The Rock Hill Blackjacks Heritage Preserve was recently established, partly within the city limits of Rock Hill, South Carolina. It showed evidence of moderate to severe human disturbance including the effects of agriculture, forestry, construction of utility rights-of-way, and abandoned roads. Despite its small size and obvious disturbance, the preserve supported over 400 species of vascular plants. The reasons for this unusual level of diversity are not entirely clear. Geology was one factor. The preserve is underlaid by the Rock Hill gabbro/metagabbro pluton. Thin soils and seasonally wet areas provided a mixture of wetland and dryland species. It contained six distinct plant communities: 1) Bottomland Forest, 2) Gabbro Glade, 3) Montmorillonite Forest/Woodland, 4), Old Field Grassland/Shrubland, 5) Old Field Woodland, and 6) a distinct Grassland/Shrubland in the utility rights-of-way. The greatest diversity, including many tall-grass prairie species, was in the utility corridors that crisscross the preserve.
4033265|This study examines five taxa of Sisyrinchium (Iridaceae) known to occur in Virginia: S. angustifolium Miller, S. arenicola Bicknell, S. atlanticum Bicknell, S. mucronatum Michx., and S. albidum Raf. Chromosome numbers were determined for all species except the latter. Sisyrinchium angustifolium Mill. had a chromosome number of n = 48, while the other three species had counts of n = 16. A nomenclatural framework which rejected the application of the name S. bermudiana L. to the blue-eyed grasses of North America was followed.
4033981|During the establishment of Great Smoky Mountains as a National Park in the mid 1930's, the National Park Service hired Frank H. Miller as an assistant forester to conduct a vegetation survey of the proposed park area. At that time, Miller and his crews sampled over 1,378 plots. This data set is the only known sampling effort that has occurred across the park's entire landscape. This paper quantitatively summarizes and classifies the overstory data collected by Miller. At the time of the sampling, Castanea dentata was the dominant species even though the chestnut blight had become established in the area of the park between 1925 and 1936. Sixteen vegetation types were identified ranging from the low elevation, xeric Pinus rigida type to the high elevation, mesic Abies fraseri type. Comparison of the whole park classification derived from the Miller data with those of other, less inclusive, studies illustrates the importance of whole park analysis for a complete understanding of the park's vegetation.
4033537| The vegetation in some southern Appalachian grassy balds is changing as shrub and tree invasion reduces the dominance of grasses. Successional changes were documented in one grassy bald, the Judaculla Fields, by monitoring the vegetation in 1/2  2 m permanent plots over a five-year period. Overall, the grass and mixed herb cover decreased by 25 and 21%, respectively, while woody shrub and tree species cover increased by 239 and 88%, respectively. The primary species invading the grassy areas was the low-bush blueberry (Vaccinium pallidum Aiton). The increase in conifer saplings present was probably a function of large seed crops during the five-year period. However, the rapid shrub invasion and loss of spruce-fir seed source presently observed is likely to preclude either the formation of spruce-fir forest or the maintenance of the grassy status of the bald. 
4032766|Jaegerina scariosa (Lor.) Arzeni and Syrrhopodon prolifer Schwaegr., widely distributed in the American tropics, are reported for the first time from Louisiana. Both species are known also from Florida.
4033375|The phytosociology and flora of a serpentine pine-cedar savanna were studied in Harford County, Maryland. This community comprises 69 vascular plant taxa, including two taxa that are restricted in Maryland to serpentine soil (Talinum teretifolium and Cerastium arvense var. villosum) and one species that is "highly state rare" (Panicum flexile). In the ground layer, 99% of the vegetative cover was perennial and half of it was graminoid. About 40% of herbaceous cover was produced by Andropogon scoparius and Aristida purpurascens. Fire suppression may have contributed to the abundance of Pinus virginiana and Juniperus virginiana.
4032786|This paper presents the results of a taxonomic and distributional study of the family Cistaceae in Ohio. Information concerning distribution, frequency, habitat, and phenology was collected by examination of specimens from thirteen herbaria. Keys are included and taxonomic problems discussed. Distribution maps are included for the ten species found to be native to the state: Lechea (seven species), Helianthemum (two species), and Hudsonia (one species). The Cistaceae show an apparent bimodal distribution within the state. Primary areas of occurrence are (1) sandy areas of the Appalachian Plateau in eastern Ohio, and (2) sandy beach ridges of northwestern Ohio, deposited by the predecessors of modern Lake Erie.
40983092|Eupatorium  truncatum (Asteraceae) is distributed throughout the eastern United States and is thought to have originated from interspecific hybridization between E. perfoliatum and E. serotinum. This study confirms the hybrid origin of one E.  truncatum population in central Indiana through analysis of DNA sequence data from nuclear ITS and corroborates the morphology-based hypothesis that E. perfoliatum and E. serotinum are its progenitors. Moreover, two single-copy nuclear loci showing fixed differences between the parents were in the heterozygous form in all hybrids analyzed, suggesting that these are all F hybrids. Plastid psbA-trnH intergenic spacer sequences identify E. serotinum as the maternal progenitor of all sampled hybrids.
4033255|Distributions of Ohio's native buckeye species, Aesculus glabra (Ohio buckeye) and A. octandra (yellow buckeye), were documented by collections from all parts of the state. A. glabra is associated with the Wisconsin and Illinoian drifts, and is restricted to outwash deposits and limestone bedrock areas beyond the limits of glaciation. A. octandra is confined to a part of the Unglaciated Allegheny Plateau, and to a westward extension across the state in the deeply dissected terrain bordering the Ohio River. The distribution of A. glabra is correlated with calcareous soils, and the distribution of A. octandra is inferred to be under the combined controls of topography and climates. Distribution maps, based on field records, are presented for the species in Ohio.
41301500|Study of the pollination biology of endangered species can provide useful information for natural resource managers. We studied the floral biology of Xyris tennesseensis, a federally endangered species, at a site (Willett Springs) in north central Alabama. We described floral behavior and flowering phenology, supplemented pollen onto stigmas from self and outcross sources to determine its effect on seed production and germination ability, documented the floral visitor fauna, and collected data on behavior, abundance and pollen loads of floral visitor species during two years (1998-99). Flowering of the population lasted from July to September each year, but individual flowers completed blooming in about a 3-hr period beginning in late morning. On average, a single flower was visited by three insects for a total of five floral visits during its brief period of anthesis. Floral visitation was greatest when flowers first opened and declined steeply by the time flowers began to close. Halictid bees were the most abundant floral visitors, along with four species of pollen-consuming syrphid flies. Based upon quantity of pollen carried, location on the body, and visitation frequency, we concluded that the halictid bee Lasioglossum zephyrum was the single most important pollinator species on the study site. However, the pollen supplementation study showed that flowers produce seeds without visitation by insects, likely by self-pollination. We concluded that, unlike some endangered plant species, insect pollination is not required for seed production by X. tennesseensis.
4032613|The age structure of Table Mountain pine (Pinus pungens Lambert) stands located on the xeric southwest shoulder of Looking Glass Rock near Brevard, North Carolina, U.S.A., indicates that these populations have maintained themselves successfully by continuous reproduction since the most recent fire in 1889.
4033950|A survey of the riparian vascular flora of the Clear Fork River and New River in the Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area (BSFNRRA) was conducted between February 1997 and November 1998. Documented were 398 species distributed among 261 genera and 98 families from a 330 ha study area. Of the 398 species, eight species are listed as rare in Tennessee. Previously unknown populations of Aster saxicastellii, Calamovilfa arcuata, Conradina verticillata, and Marshallia grandiflora were located. Species composition of the vascular riparian flora of the Clear Fork River and New River is similar to the species composition of the vascular riparian floras of the Obed River and North White Oak Creek.
4032386|Recent field and herbarium studies have produced a new floristic treatment of Virginia Gymnosperms as a contribution towards a proposed flora of Virginia. Keys, descriptions, flowering dates, seed dispersal dates, and miscellaneous notes are included for the twenty specific and infraspecific taxa that are known from the various physiographic provinces of the State. In addition to the native taxa, nine introduced species have been planted in Virginia for reforestation or experimental purposes. Gymnosperms grown as ornamentals are not included in this paper.
4033733|In 1983 we sampled using permanent line transects four stands of oak-saw palmetto scrub vegetation that were 2, 4, 8, and 25 years since the previous fire; these transects were resampled two years later. We sampled and analyzed soils from the 0-15 cm and 15-30 cm layer at each transect. The stands were dominated by Quercus myrtifolia, Q. geminata, Q. chapmanii, Serenoa repens, and ericaceous shrubs. Species composition was closely related to depth to the water table and related soil parameters as indicated by detrended canonical correspondence analysis ordination of vegetation and environmental data. Postfire recovery was by sprouting of the dominant shrubs with little change in species composition or richness. The initial growth of Serenoa repens after fire exceeded that of the oaks, resulting in shifts in dominance postfire. Total cover >0.5 m required six years to reach 100% and 8-10 years to reach a maximum. Total cover <0.5 m increased initially and then declined. Mean height reached one m in four to six years and continued to increase with stand age. Recovery rates have implications for the suitability of this habitat for scrub endemic species.
4033280|Fallen canopy trees average 60 cm (Magnolia fraseri) to 105 cm (Liriodendron tulipifera) dbh, and the canopy gaps created by their fall averaged 105 m
4033038|Floristic data and county dot distribution maps are presented for the thirteen native and two adventive species of the Gentianaceae, and for the one native and one adventive species of the Menyanthaceae in the flora of Ohio.
4033615|Vegetation and soils are compared on two forested, lower north-facing slopes over marble and schist parent materials in northern Georgia. Moisture and parent material are probably the most important factors determining differences in soils and vegetation. Soils over marble have a mean pH of 6.1, ranging from 5.3 to 6.6. These soils have a relatively high moisture, particle density, pore space, clay, stones and litter, total N and extractable, K, Ca, Mn, B, Cu and Zn; in contrast, soils over schist have a lower mean pH of 5.3, ranging from 4.6 to 6.0, relatively less of the above factors and higher sand, silt and extractable P, Fe, Na, Al, Si and Mo. The number of species per
4033356|The discovery, geographic extent, and growth characteristics of a triploid, yellow-flowered Erythronium are reported. The morphology, ecology, and life cycle of the triploid are indistinguishable from Erythronium rostratum, a diploid species that bounds it on three sides. The triploid occurs at the western margin of the range of Erythronium rostratum, and is the predominant form across an eight-county region in northwestern Arkansas, northeastern Oklahoma, and southwestern Missouri. Populations of diploids and triploids share low frequencies of flowering individuals and aggressive vegetative reproduction. Triploids show reduced pollen fertility and seed production compared to the diploid. Identifiable mitotic chromosomes occur as pairs in the diploid and sets of three in the triploid. An autotriploid origin in southeastern Washington or southwestern Madison counties, Arkansas, is proposed.
4032631|Records of the ferns and primitive vascular plants of southeastern Florida are updated. Two species new to the state, 29 new county records, and 19 first specific citings are reported.
4034070|This paper represents the continuation of an investigation into the Flora of Rabun County, Georgia, begun by the staff of the Louise Gallant Herbarium in 1989, and presents the results of approximately 70 field trips made during the 1995 and 1996 collecting seasons. A brief site description is followed by the presentation of a catalogue of vascular plants. The survey records 273 species, 158 county records, 6 species new to Georgia, and 5 species listed as Special Concern by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources. 972 vascular plant species are now recorded for Rabun County.
4032524|A forest on the Mississippi River floodplain "second bottoms" in St. Martin Parish, Louisiana, was studied by the quadrat method. The dominant tree of the overstory was hackberry (Celtis laevigata); subordinate were green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica), sweetgum (Liquidambar stryraciflua), and baldcypress (Taxodium distichum). In the understory the dominant tree was green haw (Crataegus viridis); lianas, and saplings of the overstory trees were well represented. The herb stratum contained 29 species, with Carex bromoides by far the dominant.
4033258|Four species of ants are the principal dispersers of Sanguinaria, Hepatica and Viola diaspores in the Monongahela National Forest, West Virginia. They are Aphaenogaster rudis, Formica subsericea, Myrmica punctiventris and Lasius alienus. Variation in methods of diaspore presentation and diaspore characteristics, except for size, are not significantly reflected by ant species preferences for diaspore types, or by the frequencies with which different diaspores are removed by different ant species. However, there is a tendency for larger ant species to take larger diaspores and vice versa. The lack of specificity of the ant-diaspore interaction buffers the interaction against spatial and temporal heterogeneity.
4032753|Floristic data and county dot distribution maps are presented for 35 species of the title subfamily found as native, naturalized, or adventive plants in the flora of Ohio.
4034158|One-year-old, greenhouse-grown seedlings of Lindera melissifolia (pondberry) were transplanted to permanent plots in Butler County, Missouri in 1990. In 1993, in situ seeding was done on the same tract and near naturally-occurring pondberry populations in Ripley County, Missouri. Plant heights of transplants have fluctuated but averaged slightly shorter in 2000 than in 1993 due to frequent die-backs and resprouting. Direct seeding yielded increasing cumulative germination for the first three years with a leveling off thereafter. Seven years after planting, fifty-two percent of seeds had germinated but survival was only 5%. Mean height of one-year-old seedlings was 8.44 cm.
4033884|Genetic variation is often low in narrowly endemic species, and may be further depleted by habitat loss and fragmentation. Few studies have tested predictions about the distribution of genetic variation among co-occurring endemic plants species. We describe genetic variation and its relationship to life history traits for seven narrowly endemic, federally endangered Florida scrub species: Dicerandra christmanii, D. frutescens, Eryngium cuneifolium, Hypericum cumulicola, Liatris ohlingerae, Nolina brittoniana, Warea carteri. These species have varying life histories, degrees of habitat specialization, and geographic distributions. Measures of genetic (allozyme) diversity (mean number of alleles/locus, percentage of loci polymorphic and expected heterozygosity) varied among species. However, genetic variation was generally lower than published means for plants and also generally lower for means for comparable groups (endemics, short-lived herbs, species with mixed mating systems, species with gravity dispersed seeds). The chief exception was L. ohlingerae, which had relatively high genetic variation. All three measures of genetic variation produced the same ranking among species: L. ohlingerae > D. christmanii > N. brittoniana > E. cuneifolium > D. frutescens > W. carteri > H. cumulicola. For six of these species, we compared genetic variation with rankings of eight life history factors. Genetic variation was highest in long-lived, demographically stable, outcrossing species with long pollinator dispersal distances. Attributes such as median population size, habitat specificity, geographic range, and estimated primary seed dispersal distances were not related to rankings for genetic variation. The studied species varied widely in genetic differentiation among populations (0.02 <
4032709| Buckleya seeds germinated after cold storage at 3C for 4 months. A host is not necessary for germination, and seedlings will develop without attachment to a host. Seedlings grown without hosts developed the same as those with hosts. No differences in parasite vigor were observed in 5-month-old seedlings when grown with 19 different tree species from two gymnosperms and nine angiosperm families. All species except Liriodendron tulipifera were parasitized. 
4033927|Canada thistle, Cirsium arvense, is a noxious weed in Tennessee, where it poses a significant threat to some of the state's agricultural and natural areas. Tennessee represents part of the southern edge of the distribution of Canada thistle in North America. Because highways serve as possible corridors for the spread of exotic and invasive species, the interstate highway system was monitored throughout Tennessee in 1997 and 1998 for Canada thistle. This exotic plant species was found at nine of 229 sampling sites in three of 47 Tennessee counties. Six sites were located near the state's northern border with Kentucky in Campbell County; two sites were located in Washington County in upper eastern Tennessee; and one site was located in middle Tennessee in the Western Highland Rim region in Hickman County, the westernmost occurrence of Canada thistle in the state. The occurrences of this plant species in Campbell, Hickman, and Washington Counties represent new documented county records. Each of these Canada thistle sites occurred within the <190 day frost-free zone in Tennessee and the USDA Plant Hardiness Zone 6. Each Tennessee county with a previous report of Canada thistle is at least partially included in the 190 day frost-free zone or Zone 6. Since its discovery in Tennessee in 1948, Canada thistle has only spread to a new county in the state approximately every five to seven years, which may be a result of climatic factors.
4034159|Eleutherococcus trifoliatus and Ehretia acuminata are reported as new to the flora of Florida, and significant new county records are listed for seven additional species. All are non-native species and some have invasive potential.
4033243|A typical shale barren with several endemic and characteristic shale barren plants was found on the Rose Hill formation in Allegany County, Maryland, apparently the first shale barren recorded from bedrock of Silurian age.
40793289|Four study areas located within the Fraser fir (Abies fraseri)-red spruce (Picea rubens) forest on the summit of Mount Rogers in southwestern Virginia sampled originally in July 1982 were resampled during June 2007. Mount Rogers is the northernmost locality for Fraser fir, a species that has suffered serious damage over the past half century from the introduced balsam woolly adelgid (Adelges piceae). Both total basal area (m/ha) and density (number/ha) of trees ( 10 cm DBH) increased during the 25 year interval between the two sampling dates, whereas basal area of small trees (2.5-9.9 cm DBH) increased and density decreased. Much of the change in overall composition was due to the decrease in importance of red spruce with a concurrent increase in importance of Fraser fir. The most striking differences were noted for saplings (stems 1 m but < 2.5 cm DBH), with those of Fraser fir and red spruce decreasing from 5,725 to 550 and 475 to 0 stems/ha, respectively. In addition, cover of herbaceous plants declined during the 25 years while bryophyte cover increased. Mean age of representative larger red spruce and Fraser fir trees cored in 2007 (83 years) was comparable to the value recorded in 1982 (84 years). These data suggest that many of the older individuals present in the community in 1982 were no longer present in 2007.
4032895|The adventive distribution of Aegilops cylindrica Host, jointed goatgrass, in Ohio has been studied with the conclusion that the species has in a limited way established itself as a component of the Ohio flora.
4033775| We describe for the first time Isoetes altonharvillii, the hybrid between I. engelmanniii and I. caroliniana. This diploid (2n = 22) is known from two localities in the Appalachian mountains. Like other quillwort hybrids, megaspores are intermediate in morphology between the two parents. The discovery of I. altonharvillii supports the segregation of its two parents as distinct species because of the apparently sterile nature of the hybrid. 
4033005|Observations on a population of over 1000 plants of Cicuta maculata in the mountains of southwest Virginia show the population to be essentially clonal by means of an extensive system of shallow, slender, elongate rhizomes. Although the fleshy poisonous "tubers" that form on the roots of the larger of these plants may occasionally function to a limited degree in gemmiparous asexual reproduction, they appear to be storage structures associated primarily with the ultimate production of a flowering stalk in the sexual reproductive cycle of these short-lived monocarpic perennials.
4032695|Lotus tenuis Walds. & Kit. ex Willd., a European species, is reported as naturalized in Virginia. Differences between this species and L. corniculatus are discussed.
4033978|Montane cedar-hardwood woodlands are unusual eastern red cedar- (Juniperus virginiana var. virginiana) dominated plant communities occurring on steep south-facing rock outcrops in the Piedmont and southern Appalachian Blue Ridge Provinces. Permanent 0.1 ha plots were established in woodland and adjacent communities in North Carolina to characterize quantitatively the vegetation, dynamics, and environment of the woodland community type. Vascular plant species were inventoried using a nested quadrat sampling method. Three hundred eighteen vascular plant taxa (75 families) were identified in permanent plots. Juniperus virginiana var. virginiana dominated the woodland canopy, and Carya glabra var. glabra, C. alba, and Quercus prinus were common associates. The species rich herbaceous layer was dominated by Carex spp., Dichanthelium spp., Andropogon spp., Schizachyrium scoparium ssp. scoparium, Sorghastrum nutans, and Solidago spp. Basophilic species such as Dodecatheon meadia ssp. meadia, Amelanchier sanguinea, Lonicera flava, and Sedum glaucophyllum were also common. Cedar-hardwood woodlands appear to be relatively stable plant communities, with vegetative composition seeming to respond to a suite of environmental factors such as aspect, exposure, soil depth, and parent material. Patterns of compositional similarity were explored among stands using cluster analysis to segregate stands most typifying the cedar-hardwood woodlands and to identify those species and site conditions most effective in characterizing the community type. Gradient analytical techniques were used to explore environmental relationships and to better understand the relative position of cedar-hardwood woodlands along regional compositional and environmental gradients. The woodlands were placed in an extreme position along regional gradients, in association with low fertility sites of the Blue Ridge Escarpment.
4033543|Eight native species (Carex albolutescens, C. oligosperma, Diplachne fascicularis, Hypericum pyramidatum, Iris versicolor, Juncus trifidus, Scirpus torreyi, and Stellaria calycantha), seven introduced species (Betula alba, Hedera helix, Hieracium umbellatum, Hosta ventricosa, Koelreuteria paniculata, Lunaria annua, and Spiraea vanhouttei) and a native form (Asplenium platyneuron f. hortonae) are reported as additions to the known flora of West Virginia. Juniperus communis, known from the state as an introduction, is reported to be native.
4032908|Parmelia (Xanthoparmelia) monticola, a new species from western North Carolina, produces usnic acid, fumarprotocetraric acid, physodalic acid, traces of stictic acid, and, as an accessory substance, traces of an unidentified substance (possibly sublimbatic acid). Another new species, Parmelia (Hypotrachyna) oostingii, is common and widespread in the spruce-fir forests of the Southern Appalachians and is also known from a single collection from southern Chile. Parmelia oostingii produces atranorin, gyrophoric acid, an unknown substance, and 2 to 4 trace unidentified substances. Parmelia densirhizinata Kur., P. thysanota Kur., and P. gonylophora Hale, three sorediate species of section Hypotrachyna closely related to P. oostingii, are characterized morphologically and chemically. Microphyllinic acid is reported for the first time in the Parmeliae as a constant component of P. thysanota. Parmelia nakanishii Hale, recently described from the Southern Appalachians, is identical to P. thysanota, a species previously known only from Mexico. The Southern Appalachian distributions for these previously rarely collected species are reported.
4034088|In vitro symbiotic seed germination of the yellow fringeless-orchid, Platanthera integra (Nuttall) Gray ex Beck, is reported. Seeds of P. integra collected from the Green Swamp (Brunswick, County, North Carolina) were inoculated with mycorrhizal fungi (Epulorhiza spp.) isolated from the root-like organs of three southeastern orchids: Platanthera ciliaris (L.) Lindley, P. integrilabia (Correll) Luer, P. integra. All fungi promoted seed germination, and leaf-bearing seedlings were obtained using the fungus from P. integrilabia. Seeds exposed to prolonged (1 and 2 hr) scarification followed by white light pretreatment (12 hr: 12 hr; L:D) yielded a higher percentage of leafless seedlings (protocorms) compared to standard techniques. We advocate the widespread preservation of existing orchids and their habitats in order to safeguard mycorrhizal fungi for use in conservation.
4034257|A vegetation study was conducted within central Pennsylvania's Ridge and Valley Province at the Mohn Mill natural area, an area that harbors the federally endangered northeastern bulrush, Scirpus ancistrochaetus. A non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination identified two gradients of species replacement distinguished by differences in forest canopy species and groundcover. Basal-diameter histograms for red maple (Acer rubrum), eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis), and witch hazel (Hamamelis virginiana) showed distributions indicative of populations recruiting new individuals, whereas basal-diameter distributions for white oak (Quercus alba), chestnut oak (Q. montana), and red/black oak (Q. rubra/Q. velutina) indicate declining populations with limited recruitment. Consequently, as current populations of overstory oaks age and ultimately die, they will be replaced by red maple and eastern hemlock. This transition has major implications for herbaceous plants, including the persistence of the northeastern bulrush, given that ground-level light levels will decrease due to the denser canopies of red maple and eastern hemlock recruits.
4033656|Over a decade of study reveals that the vascular flora of the James River Gorge watersheds between Snowden and Glasgow, Virginia, including portions of the James River Face Wilderness, and portions of Amherst, Bedford, and Rockbridge Counties is superbly diverse. Voucher specimens document a vascular flora of 468 genera in 119 plant families with 963 taxa in the 3585-hectare research area. Largest collections of the Gorge flora are represented by the Asteraceae (130 spp.), Poaceae (93 spp.), Cyperaceae (61 spp.), Fabaceae (54 spp.), and Rosaceae (41 spp.). Of the species collected, 21% are introduced taxa. The collected taxa are compiled in an annotated list.
4032486|A listing of vascular flora of a political entity, Casey County, Kentucky, constituting a preliminary survey of the vascular flora of the upper Green River valley. Most species represent new county listings and a few represent state and regional extensions of range.
4032922|A detailed floristic survey of the vascular plants growing naturally within sixteen counties of central South Georgia has resulted in the identification of forty-eight taxa of ferns and other primitive vascular plants that are a part of the region's flora. In addition to establishing records of taxa new to the Georgia Coastal Plain, data from the survey eliminate many distributional gaps and extend the ranges of several taxa beyond those previously published. An annotated checklist is given.
4033665|Passiflora lutea L. was "rediscovered" in Delaware at two sites during the 1991 field season. A check of herbaria for collections of this species uncovered two Delaware voucher specimens (GH, MO), without locality data, from the first half of the nineteenth century.
4032887|Keys, distributions, taxonomic and nomenclatural notes are given for the species of the zygomorphic-flowered genera of the Ranunculaceae native to or naturalized in the southeastern United States. These include Aconitum reclinatum, A. uncinatum, Consolida ambigua, Delphinium carolinianum, D. exaltatum, D. newtonianum, D. treleasei, D. tricorne and D. virescens.
4034301|To assess changes in a spruce-fir stand resulting from overstory mortality caused by the balsam woolly adelgid (Adelges piceae), I resampled 5 permanent plots first established in 1979 near the summit of Mount LeConte, Tennessee. Overstory basal area and density of Abies fraseri decreased, but understory basal area and density increased. Understory density and basal area were highly variable for most species. Prunus pensylvanica and Sorbus americana appeared to increase in understory density as a response to overstory mortality, although these changes were not statistically significant (P > 0.1). Abies fraseri seedling density decreased (P = 0.063), while that of Vaccinium erythrocarpum increased (P = 0.002). Among herbaceous species, the cover of Oxalis montana decreased from 45% to 1.5% (P < 0.001), while that of Dryopteris campyloptera increased from 9% to 15% (P = 0.063). Although not statistically significant, the cover of Rubus canadensis increased from 2% to 30% (P = 0.159) but was highly variable between plots. The severity and extent of mortality caused by the adelgid has greatly altered composition and structure, and even after 22-years the stand is still in a state of structural and compositional reorganization.
4034110|Ludwigia uruguayensis is known to comprise a decaploid entity (L. hexapetala) and a hexaploid one (L. grandiflora, including the type of L. uruguayensis), but the two chromosomal races differ only by quantitative, intergrading morphological features, a large portion of their genome is hypothesized to be shared, and they are known to produce hybrids of intermediate morphology in regions of sympatry. Ludwigia hexapetala is the more common, but both occur in the southeastern United States. We agree in general with earlier studies regarding the nature of the distinction between the two entities but suggest that a more reasonable treatment of them would be as subspecies within a single species: L. grandiflora subsp. grandiflora and L. grandiflora subsp. hexapetala, comb. et stat. nov.
4033374|Four forest plots on Bluff Mountain in northwestern North Carolina, U.S.A., with Tsuga caroliniana as a major component of the vegetation were used to study life history traits of T. caroliniana and its role in community dynamics. Growth rate of T. caroliniana was low, showed no difference among plots, and showed a slight relationship with age. Two of the plots contained old populations of T. caroliniana with low and moderate recruitment respectively. Both plots had small, declining populations of oaks (Quercus rubra, Q. alba). The third plot contained a younger population of T. caroliniana with high recruitment; oaks were more abundant but were declining. The fourth plot was dominated by oaks and contained a still younger, expanding T. caroliniana population; oak populations were stable. Tsuga caroliniana appeared to be expanding from a population center near some bluffs to adjacent oak forests. There was indication that recruitment of T. caroliniana is episodic. Tsuga caroliniana had good recruitment under shaded conditions in which other species had low or no recruitment. Once established, it tended to suppress most other species. Many traits of T. caroliniana are compatible with the stress tolerant strategy of Grime. Consistent with Grime's proposals on life history strategies and plant succession the stress tolerant T. caroliniana is more abundant in more stressful habitats such as bluffs, but also appears as a late successional species in other habitats.
4033337|Eight plants are reported for the first time for the flora of Maryland. Of these, two are natives (Nymphaea tuberosa, Chamaedaphne calyculata) and six (Sclerochloa dura, Kalopanax pictus, Calepina irregularis, Strophostyles leiosperma, Salvia reflexa, Prunus tomentosa) are introduced. In addition, remarks are presented on the pollination of Nymphaea tetragona.
4033476|The flora and vegetation of six open barren and fringing forest sites were examined on the eastern Highland Rim of Tennessee. All sites are on flat to undulating loess-derived soils. A total of 560 vascular plants occur. Of the 530 native taxa, 76 are woody, and 27 are on the list of rare plants of the state. Major families are the Poaceae, Asteraceae, Cyperaceae, and Fabaceae. The flora is most closely related to those of the barrens of the western Highland Rim and of West Tennessee. (There is only a small western United States element.) Tallgrass vegetation on the May Prairie, the best of the remaining open barrens, is characterized by two types: big bluestem-tall panicum and tall panicum-little bluestem.
4034236|In eastern forests, openings dominated by grasses, forbs, or shrubs are areas of conservation concern because they typically contain endemic, threatened, and rare plants. Understanding the ecology and mechanisms of tree encroachment would be valuable for conservation managers and would add to a substantial body of literature on forest openings. In this study, we worked in grass-dominated forest openings on Buffalo Mountain, Virginia using a method that combined dendrochronology and belt transects to assess tree encroachment. We discovered both stable ecotones and areas where trees were invading the formerly grass-dominated openings. Both gradual and episodic patterns of tree encroachment were identified; however, successful tree establishment always initiated from the edge of the forest-grass ecotone and progressed towards the center of the opening rather than occurring across the entire forest opening. This spatial pattern of recruitment implies that successional facilitation is necessary for tree encroachment in forested openings at Buffalo Mountain.
40792819|Temperature drives ecosystem function and can be estimated from potential solar irradiation (the surface angle of the Earth in relationship to the sun). However, indirect topographical proxies (i.e., aspect) are often used in lieu of direct temperature estimates; and temperature models based on potential solar irradiation typically omit elevation, a key parameter in temperature estimation. Using temperature data (2002-04) from regional weather stations and field sites in the southern Appalachian region of North Carolina and north Georgia, I test the efficacy of temperature estimations based on potential solar irradiation and present a simple method to improve such estimations by incorporating elevational temperature gradients. The heat load index, which weighs afternoon sun as more integral to heat generation than morning sun, fits actual weather station and field site temperatures better than solar angle alone. However, in all years and data sets, adjusting the heat load index for elevational substantially improves its fit with actual temperatures. Further, by calibrating the adjusted heat load estimation with annual weather station temperature data, actual field site temperature for individual years can be accurately predicted. This paper presents a relatively simple method for generating temperature data that requires only spreadsheet or statistical software. This is useful for estimating temperatures from data sets where only topographical or GPS data were collected. It also can be used to derive missing data when sampling sites outnumber temperature loggers.
4032966|The aquatic families of the Arecidae occurring in Alabama include Araceae and Lemnaceae. A key to the taxa and, for each of the species, county dot distribution maps and characteristics are presented.
4032299|Eighty species of vascular plants from thirty-eight families were found in a shallow bog and adjoining areas on East River Mountain in Tazewell County. Many of these are new county records for this poorly collected area.
4033925|The Waterloo Wildlife Research Station (WWRS) is a 505 ha state-owned research area located in the mixed mesophytic forest region of unglaciated southeastern Ohio. The vascular flora of WWRS was inventoried from March 1997 to October 1999. The objectives of this study were to survey the composition and distribution of native and non-native plant species across natural and managed habitats at WWRS and to document the presence of threatened and endangered species. A total of 559 species in 323 genera and 109 families were located within seven plant community types. This survey adds 241 new species to a 1955 floristic survey of WWRS, resulting in 655 species in 362 genera and 114 families. This total includes two state endangered, two state threatened, and six potentially threatened species. Twenty percent of the species are non-native to the eastern United States, occurring primarily in anthropogenically disturbed habitats.
4033113|Twenty native Ohio vascular plant taxa, previously considered for review by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service as possibly federally endangered or threatened, were studied over a two-year period to assess their rarity and threat of extirpation, nationally and in Ohio. Current information indicates that Aconitum noveboracense should be maintained as federally threatened, and that Calamagrostis insperata, Plantago cordata, and Platanthera leucophaea should be considered for listing as federally threatened. Current data on the status of Poa paludigena, Potamogeton hillii, Synandra hispidula, and Trollius laxus are too limited to make an adequate recommendation as to possible federal status. Although rare in Ohio, Cypripedium candidum and Veratrum woodii are apparently more frequent elsewhere and presently do not warrant listing. Unresolved taxonomic problems prevent specific recommendations for Polygonum pensylvanicum var. eglandulosum, and Rhus trilobata var. arenaria. Taxa frequent throughout much of their ranges, including Ohio, that do not appear to warrant listing are Panax quinquefolius, Platanthera flava, Platanthera peramoena, Polemonium reptans var. villosum, and Sullivantia sullivantii. Hybrids that do not meet the definition of "species" under the Endangered Species Act are Asplenium X ebenoides, Asplenium X kentuckiense, and Muhlenbergia X curtisetosa.
4032325|A re-evaluation of Rafinesque's work in Kentucky was undertaken in order to give courses on Local Flora (Field Botany) more of a historical background. It appears that many of the type localities of species described by Rafinesque still exist in unchanged state especially along the Kentucky River, however the barrens once rich in species of gentians have now virtually disappeared. Rafinesque also gave good attention to introduced weeds. His first list of Kentucky plants was very incomplete but still worthwhile to study.
4032688|Triphora trianthophora (Swartz) Rydberg, primarily a mountainous plant in South Carolina, was first collected in the South Carolina Coastal Plain by Dr. Henry W. Ravenel in the mid 1800's, along the Santee Canal in Berkeley County (Porcher, 1974). According to available records, this orchid has not been found in the Coastal Plain since Ravenel's collection. I report two disjunct populations found in the coastal counties of Berkeley and Charleston. Also reported are notes on its life history and habitat preference.
4033233|A check-list is presented of the pteridophytes known to occur in Georgia. Also included are common names and distributional data. Georgia has 32 genera, 97 species, and 6 hybrids in its pteridophyte flora.
4034069|Although Penstemon tenuiflorus and P. hirsutus of eastern North America generally are regarded as closely-related species, the taxonomic level of their distinctiveness has been questioned. Based on evidence from herbarium, common garden, SEM, and field studies, we conclude that these two taxa are distinct at the species level. They differ in leaf pubescence, flower color, geographic distribution, and habitat preference. A key to the 18 taxa of Penstemon occurring east of the Mississippi River is provided.
4033220|The arborescent vegetation of Delaware forests was studied in order to determine species composition and dominance. Four sites were selected in the Appalachian Piedmont Province (APP) and eight in the Coastal Plain Province (CPP). Forests were chosen if they were predominantly hardwood, relatively undisturbed, protected from further cutting, and at least ten acres (4.04 ha) in size. The quadrat method was used in sampling. Fagus grandifolia and Liriodendron tulipifera were dominant in the APP while Quercus alba, Q. rubra, and Q. velutina were important associates. Quercus alba was the dominant species of mature forests in the CPP, with Liquidambar styraciflua and Acer rubrum the most common associates. Acer rubrum is dominant in the "Great Cypress Swamp" located in southern Delaware. Forests in the APP were richer in species than forests of the CPP, and more similar in species composition.
4033885|Here we submit that mathematical tools used in population viability analysis can be used in conjunction with floristic and faunistic surveys to predict changes in biogeographic range. We illustrate our point by summarizing the results of a demographic study of Lobelia boykinii. In this study we used deterministic and stochastic matrix models to estimate the growth rate and to predict the time to extinction for three populations growing in the Carolina bays. The stochastic model better discriminated among the fates of the three populations. It predicted extinction for two populations in the next 25 years but no extinction of the third population for at least 50 years. Probability of extinction is likely correlated with hydrologic regime and fire frequency of the bay in which a population is found. The stochastic model could be combined with information about the geographic distribution of L. boykinii habitats to predict short-term biogeographic change.
20433924|Historically, fire and the southern pine beetle (Dendroctonus frontalis) have interacted in a manner that maintains the stability of pine-dominated forests in the southern Appalachians. Fire suppression has recently been implicated in the disruption of the integrity of these forests and their shift toward hardwood dominance. This study examined the influences of fire and southern pine beetle infestation on stand structure and resin flow of pines in pine-dominated forests in the Linville Gorge Wilderness of North Carolina. Resin flow in most pine species increases in response to various types of wounding and is a pine tree's primary defense against insect pathogens. Pine-dominated stands in this study decreased in both basal area and density after exposure to fire and/or southern pine beetle infestation. Decreases in basal area and density of Pinus pungens were strongly associated with infestation, while decreases in Pinus rigida were influenced primarily by exposure to fire. Resin flow was substantially higher in trees that were exposed to fire, but not infested, than in trees experiencing any other combination of fire exposure and infestation (including trees that were neither exposed to fire nor infested). This elevated resin flow was still present 18 mo after burning. Since resin flow is the primary means of host defense against southern pine beetle, it is suspected that fire could confer an acquired resistance to future southern pine beetle infestations through elevated resin flow.
27742927|A vascular plant survey of Ledges State Park (Boone County, Iowa; 482 ha) was conducted from 2005 to 2008 during which 697 taxa were encountered. A search of the literature and the holdings of Iowa State University's Ada Hayden Herbarium (ISC) revealed 79 additional taxa found in the Park. This total of 776 taxa adds 306 to the floras published in two previous floristic studies of the Park. An annotated checklist was prepared that includes the origin, habitat preferences, and collection history for each taxon. This study reports 31 taxa not included in Eilers and Roosa's 1994 checklist of Iowa's vascular flora, including a population of Oenanthe that may represent a new species. Thirteen taxa documented from the Park are listed as endangered, threatened, or special concern by the Iowa Department of Natural Resources. The results of this survey provide knowledge of the extent of invasive species in the Park and facilitate analysis of floristic change. Survey results also provide a more thorough understanding of Iowa's flora, including updated species' distributions and the status of rare plants. The study reveals the need for a computer database of specimens in Iowa's herbaria and an online, regularly updated checklist of Iowa vascular plants. Like Ledges, many parks fulfill important conservation roles in providing a haven for sensitive species and uncommon plant communities. To ensure the future integrity of all of Iowa's state parks, we recommend increased support for scientific research and conservation.
4033933|We investigated the dynamics of woody, characteristic bayhead species (Gordonia lasianthus, Ilex cassine, Magnolia virginiana, Myrica cerifera, and Persea palustris) invasion into 50 seasonal ponds at three sites in south central Florida. Individuals of Gordonia lasianthus and Persea palustris were concentrated in the shallow Panicum abscissum zone, while Ilex cassine, Magnolia virginiana, and Myrica cerifera were concentrated in the fringing Serenoa repens zone. Trees of all species had the largest diameters in the cutthroat zone. Deeper pond zones were less often invaded. The natural log of bayhead invasion density was negatively correlated with distance from nearest bayhead. Both large and small trees followed this pattern, suggesting that the invasion process is ongoing and has a long history. The likelihood of finding at least one bayhead invader is positively related to the area of the pond. Woody bayhead invasion of seasonal ponds depends upon the distribution of vegetation at the landscape level. Habitat destruction and fragmentation are likely to reduce the occurrence of this invasion by isolating both seasonal ponds and bayheads.
4033887|Three taxonomically recognized, allopatric, and ecologically differentiated varieties comprise Phacelia dubia (L.) Trel. (Hydrophyllaceae). Although widespread in the southeastern United States, the distribution and taxonomic affinities of P. dubia have been overlooked in South Carolina. Populations of P. dubia occurring on Piedmont granite outcrops in seven South Carolina counties have been referred to as putative variety "imitator." Artificial hybridizations with P. dubia var. dubia and var. georgiana McVaugh produced partially sterile F1 hybrids. Hybrids with var. interior Fern. were mostly fertile except for occasional unidirectional sterility. The fertility distributions of backcross progenies of both var. dubia--"imitator" and var. georgiana--"imitator" F1 hybrids to "imitator" parents were bimodal, and fertility was associated with one allozyme and two DNA markers, suggesting a major segregating factor controls hybrid fertility. In contrast, "imitator" is not morphologically distinct relative to vars. dubia and georgiana. Conflicting morphological, ecological and reproductive data highlight the problem of taxonomic recognition of a morphologically cryptic entity.
4033718|Conifers have spread rapidly in four protected serpentine areas in Maryland during the past 50 years. In three areas, more than 80% of grassland and savanna seral stages have succeeded to woodland and forest dominated by Pinus virginiana or this species with Juniperus virginiana. Before settlement was effected circa 1750, Native American fire hunting practices maintained vast areas of serpentine grassland and oak savanna. After settlement, livestock grazing apparently replaced Indian fires as the primary factor inhibiting woody plant succession in many areas including Soldiers Delight. Areas not grazed succeeded to forest, probably deciduous, and the regional abundance of these relatively fire-intolerant conifers probably increased substantially. Cessation of grazing and other disturbances such as logging by the mid-1900s apparently have allowed these conifers to spread rapidly in remaining serpentine openings. Although seasonal drought may slow the rate of conifer succession, extant grasslands and savannas will disappear without major perturbations such as logging and fire.
4033827|Spiraea virginiana Britton is a clonal shrub with modular growth form. The species has root system and vegetative characteristics that allow it to thrive under appropriate disturbance regimes. The species probably reached optimal population numbers, genetic diversity, and widest distribution during late glacial times when frost churn and increased erosion inhibited arboreal competition. The wide range was probably achieved using sexual reproduction and small wind/water dispersed seeds. As the climate ameliorated, plants became restricted to riverine habitats. This restriction isolated and probably eliminated many genetic individuals, caused increased dependence on vegetative reproduction and restricted population numbers in a wide but discontinuous range. The riverine sites have enough erosion to inhibit arboreal competition and fragment the modular colonies, but deposition patterns suitable for the establishment of vegetative propagules. Human activities have inadvertently maintained the species in several sites by periodic clearing, but human activities are the only documented cause of extirpation.
4033652|A 0.4 ha vegetation plot established in 1962 in Albright Grove, an old-growth cove forest in the Great Smoky Mountains, was resampled in 1992. A 0.6 ha plot encompassing the entire 1962 plot area was surveyed, mapped, and permanently marked in 1992. The diameter (dbh) and species of all live and dead tree stems >1.37 m tall were recorded in 10 0.04 ha contiguous plots in 1962, and in 60 0.01 ha contiguous subplots in 1992. Changes in the original 0.4 ha plot area over the 30-yr period are summarized here. The basal area of standing dead trees decreased from 15.7 to 3.5
4033680|The role of the United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service (ARS) in the research and control of introduced weeds is discussed. Introduced weeds are a major economic threat to the United States. Currently, about 60% of all weeds in the United States are of foreign origin. These alien weed species reduce the quality of food, feed, and fiber and increase the cost of crop production by several billion dollars annually. In addition, introduced weeds threaten native plant species in natural areas and reduce environmental quality on public and private lands.
4032473|A uniquely diverse area in the Blue Ridge province of North Carolina is described. A bog-fen is particularly noteworthy. A catalog of the rich flora, which includes many taxa rarely found in the Carolinas, is provided.
4034311|Once scattered throughout the Piedmont region of the Southeast, the Piedmont prairie ecosystem is now relegated to disturbed sites such as roadsides and power line rights-of-way. Unlike the megafauna, the flora of this nearly extinct ecosystem persists in habitat fragments with uncertain futures. The purpose of this paper is to document the results of a five-year study of the vascular flora of six sites, including two that could be considered remnant Piedmont prairies. We collected 548 species and discarded those with no association to the Piedmont prairie ecosystem: nonnative, woodland, and wetland species. The remaining 277 species form a species list for the historic Piedmont prairie community. Four species are Federally-listed: Echinacea laevigata (Asteraceae), Helianthus schweinitzii (Asteracaeae), Lotus helleri (Fabaceae), and Symphiotrichum georgianum (Asteraceae). While no one knows the floral composition of historic Piedmont prairies, this species list can be used to identify and evaluate prairie remnants in the Carolina Piedmont.
4034166|We inventoried two 1-ha plots on opposing watersheds (WS2-WS-S, WS18-WS-N) three times (1983, 1989, 1998) over a 16-year period to contrast how differing precipitation (P) regimes affect tree mortality. From 1983 to 1989, annual precipitation averaged 16.5% less than the 64-year mean; from 1989 to 1998, it averaged 12.2% above the mean. In 1989 and 1998, standing crop biomass, aboveground net primary productivity, mortality rates and species composition were determined. In 1989, following the dry period, the highest mortality for canopy tree species was in Carya spp. and Quercus velutina in both watersheds. Following the wet period in 1998, mortality was highest in Cornus florida in both watersheds, presumably due to the Anthracnose fungus; however, net change in stem density due to ingrowth was positive for this species in the WS-S watershed (+34%) and negative in the WS-N watershed (-18%). Estimated ANPP for WS-S was 10 and 1,076 kg ha
4032417|Several botanists in the past have recognized the southeastern unglaciated part of Ohio as a unique area in the state. A rather large number of southern species of vascular plants grow there. Based on evidence aggregated from various sources, 169 taxa are designated as being characteristic or definitive of this region. Most of these plants are representatives of the flora of the Appalachians, the Piedmont and the Cumberland Mountains. Many have probably migrated to southeastern Ohio via the ancient Teays River Valley. Their distribution patterns in Ohio assist in the delimitation of this region as a distinct phytogeographic unit.
4033643|In a continuing chromosome survey of Pycnanthemum, chromosome counts are given for 21 accessions representing 12 species. Among these is a first record (2n = 78) for P. floridanum and a corrected diploid count (2n = 38) for a collection of P. loomisii earlier reported to be tetraploid. The first hexaploid count (2n = 120) known for P. torrei supplements prior reports of tetraploidy in this taxon. Data on chromosome numbers, meiotic behavior, and percent stainable pollen are presented for 16 interspecific crosses that produced flowering F
4033404|The vascular flora of Big Frog Mountain, a 1288 m summit in the southeast corner of Tennessee, was the subject of a two year study. Collections from the study identified 479 taxa, representing 266 genera and 93 families. The Tennessee Department of Conservation lists 13 of these taxa as endangered, threatened, or special concern in Tennessee: Agastache scrophulariaefolia, Coreopsis latifolia, Diervilla lonicera, Euonymus obovatus, Heracleum lanatum, Lonicera dioica, Melanthium hybridum, Panax quinquefolius, Prenanthes roanensis, Prunus virginiana, Scutellaria saxatilis, Silene ovata, and Thermopsis fraxinifolia. Coreopsis latifolia was found for the first time in Tennessee. The distributions of the collected taxa were examined in an attempt to understand the phytogeographical significance of the Big Frog Mountain flora. Thirty-two taxa (6.7%) are endemic to the Blue Ridge Province or the southern Appalachians and 22 taxa (4.6%) are introduced. Three taxa have the southernmost distribution of their range on the mountain: Dryopteris campyloptera, Prenanthes roanensis, and Prunus virginiana. Big Frog Mountain is forested by a relatively undisturbed southern Appalachian flora. The mountain has maintained and conserved a more typically northern flora due to the extremely rugged topography and the prevailing winds acting in unison to provide high levels of rainfall and creating a cool, montane climate in the area.
4032855|The vascular flora of ten north-facing sandstone outcrops in Clark County, Illinois was examined along with the hillsides above these outcrops. Many of the taxa found are rarely encountered in east-central Illinois, as their normal range is the northern quarter of the state.
4032706|The flora of the southwestern tip of Virginia has small elements of midwestern, southern and northern affinities, but still is rather limited. Many species which migrated up the Mississippi drainage system have intriguing gaps between their eastern and western Virginia distributions.
4034157|Little Manatee River State Park is located in southwestern Hillsborough County, Florida. It covers 979.6 ha and includes eleven natural plant communities plus ruderal and developed areas. Communities range from xeric habitats such as scrub and scrubby flatwoods to hydric habitats such as floodplain forest and blackwater stream. The objective of this study was to develop a comprehensive listing of the taxa occurring in the park and make site-specific observations of the floristic communities. A survey of the park's vascular flora was conducted between April 1998 and May 2000. The survey resulted in the documentation of 523 taxa, 329 genera, and 116 families. Three hundred and seventy-one new additions were made to the existing documented taxa within the park. Four hundred and thirty-six (83.4%) of the taxa are native. Twenty-nine (5.5%) are endemic to Florida. Eighty-eight (16.8%) are exotic. Twelve of the collections are county records. Occurrence of the recently described species Rhynchospora megaplumosa is documented. The plant communities are briefly described with emphasis on the floristic composition of each. Results of the floristic survey are compiled in an annotated list.
4033847|Calcium-rich exposed substrates are considered to be uncommon in South Carolina, where low pH readings are also the rule. Field data indicate that the calcium-rich substrates can be recognized by calcium-indicator plants. The calcium-rich habitats and plant communities include mountain and piedmont marble outcrops and basic forest, and coastal plain calcareous cliffs and calcareous floodplains. These communities are defined. Nineteen selected calciphiles in the region are suggested for further study for inclusion on the South Carolina Heritage Program's list of plant species of concern. Sixty-one calcium-indicators are listed for the Calcareous Cliff community, fifty-seven for the Calcareous Floodplain community, and forty-eight for mountain and piedmont calcareous habitats. The occurrence of listed plants can be used to predict calcareous substrate types in the region and may be useful as a guide for the cultivation requirements of these plants.
4033441|Flat Laurel Gap Bog of Pisgah Ridge in the Balsam Mountains of North Carolina is a high-elevation (1500 m) heath bald and Appalachian bog. The bog sediments furnish a paleoecologic record showing vegetation change over the last 3340 years. The paleoecologic record demonstrates with chronologic control the antiquity of at least some of the heath balds in the Southern Appalachians. Ericaceae plants have dominated the vegetation in the bog for at least the last 3000 years. Circumboreal and boreal heaths that also persisted at Flat Laurel Gap Bog through the late Holocene included Chamaedaphne calyculata and Andromeda sp.
4033044|The distribution of swamp forest sites as indicated by Quercus bicolor is mapped for the Bluegrass and Knobs regions of Kentucky. Most of these are on high level terraces probably deposited by rivers ponded during glaciation. For some sites species lists are presented and a preliminary analysis reveals compositional variation related to soil moisture and perhaps pH. Records of Q. bicolor, Q. michauxii and Habenaria spp. from these previously little described forests extend their known ranges. The urgent need for conservation of these swamp forests is discussed.
4032854|In Louisiana the Onagraceae are represented by the genera Circaea, Ludwigia, Calylophus, Oenothera, and Guara. This paper documents the occurrence and distribution for each species in those genera. Keys to genera and species, and distributional data for each species are provided.
4034044|Growth chamber experiments examined the effects of salinity on seed germination and seedling growth of Solidago sempervirens var. mexicana. Seeds were germinated at salinities ranging from 0-3% (weight/volume). Germination rate and percentage decreased with increased salinity. Seeds exposed to full strength (3%) sea water for 1-10 days and subsequently removed to fresh water gave 45-60% germination regardless of their length of exposure to sea water. Length of time in salt water affected the rate of germination; seeds exposed to sea water for 6-10 days germinated more rapidly than did seeds exposed for shorter periods. Seedlings subirrigated with 0-3% salt solutions showed optimum growth at 1% salinity, with decreasing growth and increasing succulence at salinities >1%. Despite addition of a dilute nutrient solution to all treatments, seedlings irrigated with freshwater only were slightly chlorotic. Responses of Solidago sempervirens to salinity indicate adaptation to oceanic dispersal and subsequent establishment in saline habitats, both of which may contribute to its wide geographic distribution.
4033389|Specimens in existence of the presumably extinct legume Orbexilum stipulatum (T. & G.) Rydb. (=Psoralea stipulata T. & G.) were collected from 1835 to 1881. The species has been listed in various taxonomic works as having occurred in Indiana, Kentucky, and Ohio. However, after reviewing the evidence, it appears that O. stipulatum was endemic to Rock Island of the Falls of the Ohio River in Louisville, Kentucky, at the time of its discovery by botanists in the 1830's.
20433969|Three closely related, midwinter to spring-flowering, mesic species of Zephyranthes (Amaryllidaceae) are endemic to the southeastern United States: Z. atamasca, Z. treatiae, and Z. simpsonii. The taxonomic level of the distinctiveness of Z. treatiae from Z. atamasca is discussed. Based on herbarium, cytological, and field studies, and on Principal Component Analysis and pictorialized scatter diagram analysis, we conclude that all three taxa are distinct at the species level. They are distinguished by differences in relative lengths of floral elements. Illustrations, a distribution map, and a key are provided.
4033037|Cimicifuga rubifolia Kearney, a threatened species in Tennessee, is known from the Ridge and Valley Province, the Cumberland Plateau Section of the Appalachian Plateaus, and from one disjunct population in the Interior Low Plateaus Province. The status of the disjunct population is discussed and a second, more extensive population is reported.
4033294|The partial demolition of a dam in southwest Virginia resulted in the drainage of a 35-hectare reservoir. The first-year vegetation which colonized the lake bed included Polygonum lapathifolium, Bidens cernua, Juncus effusus, Leersia oryzoides, Panicum dichotomiflorum, and Muhlenbergia frondosa. The lake bed was colonized primarily by weedy annuals (including grasses) which apparently germinated from seeds buried in bottom sediments. Cover values were affected by slope but not by grazing. Similarities are noted between this vegetation and that of exposed mudflats in either marsh or riverine environments.
4034221|Presently Acer saccharum (sugar maple) dominates the overstory of Baber Woods Nature Preserve with an importance value (IV) of 75.4 (possible 200), more than half the total density (148.4 of 289.4 stems/ha), and numerous individuals in the smaller diameter classes. Second is Quercus alba (white oak) with an IV of 45.9, one-third of the basal area (9.28 of 26.95 m
4033751|Preliminary results of a floristic survey of Rabun County, Georgia, are presented by the staff of the newly established Louise Gallant Herbarium at Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School. The report is based on field work and literature surveys conducted during the growing seasons of 1989 through 1994. As of November 1994, over 1,140 specimens from Rabun County were collected, representing 489 species. Another 325 species are documented in the literature, bringing the total number of species known from Rabun County to 814. The survey documented 185 county records, one state record, four protected species, and fourteen special concern species. Eight plant communities are described: 1) Chestnut or Oak-Chestnut Communities, 2) Oak and Oak-Pine Communities, 3) Mixed Mesophytic Communities or Cove Hardwoods, 4) Balds, 5) Cliffs and Gorge Walls, 6) Mountain Bogs, 7) Mountain River and Flood Zone, and 8) Disturbed Areas.
4033986|The effect of forest fragmentation on cove-forest herbs was studied in the Southern Blue Ridge Province. Patches of mesic forests were sampled with 4 ha study plots. The coverage and density of herb species were greater in large patches (>200 ha) than in small patches (<10 ha). Several ant-dispersed species, such as Disporum maculatum and Uvularia grandiflora, were more likely to be absent from small patches than from large patches. Wind-dispersed species, such as ferns and composites, were not affected by patch size and isolation. Small patches had reduced amounts of organic matter in the soil, suggesting that small patches have experienced more disturbance than large patches. Otherwise, there were no other differences in soil characteristics between patch sizes. Mechanisms hypothesized to have affected these populations include (a) disruption of population dynamics due to habitat fragmentation, (b) habitat degradation, and (c) anthropogenic disturbance via land use. Disturbances may have affected herb populations directly by increasing mortality rates and by degrading habitat. These habitat changes were confounded by the small size and isolation of small forest patches.
4033738|The plains prickly-pear (Opuntia macrorhiza Engelm.) is more abundant and widespread in Illinois than previous publications have indicated. Populations of this species appear to be restricted to windblown sand deposits, loess hill prairies, and limestone glades along the Mississippi River, and the upper and extreme lower parts of the Illinois River. The eastern prickly-pear (Opuntia humisfusa (Raf.) Raf.) is largely restricted to sand deposits along Lake Michigan, the Illinois and Kankakee Rivers, and rock ledges of southern Illinois. The fragile prickly-pear (Opuntia fragilis (Nutt.) Haw.) is currently known from Illinois at a sand prairie in the valley of the Mississippi River in Jo Daviess County.
4032835|The flora of the Isle of Palms, Charleston County, South Carolina, was collected over a one and a half year period, from December 1971 to July 1973. The species list includes 77 families, 313 species, and 23 new records for Charleston County. The major plant communities are dune, shrub, live oak, freshwater marsh, and salt marsh. A brief list of the species in each of the aforementioned communities is included.
4034354|Fungi collected in Nags Head Woods Ecological Preserve (Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina) were identified and catalogued from 1996 to 2001. The 566.6 ha preserve contains the largest contiguous maritime forest on a barrier island on the Atlantic coast of the United States. Its unique diversity of habitats supports maritime deciduous and fresh-water swamp forests. The objective of this study is to document the biodiversity of the fungi of this unique forest. To date, 101 taxa of fungi representing 78 genera have been identified and a checklist of species is presented. Species collected are on deposit in the Mycological Herbarium, Department of Plant Pathology, North Carolina State University.
40793290|This study evaluated the ability of bigtooth aspen (Populus grandidentata Michx.) patches to contribute to the understory diversity of southeastern Ohio's mixed oak forests by providing unique microenvironments embedded within the larger mixed vegetation matrix. Twenty bigtooth aspen patches and adjacent mixed oak forest were selected for study. Microenvironmental parameters were assessed in both the patch and surrounding matrix and included light, relative humidity, soil and air temperature, soil moisture, nitrate, texture, pH, O and A horizon depth, Organic matter content, and cation (Mg, Ca, P, K, Al) availability. Spring and summer vegetation surveys were conducted to investigate differences in floristic composition between aspen patches and surrounding forest. A MANOVA revealed significant (P < 0.001) differences in the microenvironment between aspen patches and the oak matrix resulting from differences in soil texture, organic matter content, soil and air temperature, soil pH, magnesium, calcium, and aluminum availability. Vegetation surveys demonstrated that aspen patches had greater vegetative cover (P < 0.05) and species richness (summer survey only;  < 0.05) than the surrounding mixed oak forest. However, ordinations did not reveal distinct compositional differences based upon the presence or absence of aspen, suggesting that although community structure and environment differs between aspen patches and control forest, bigtooth aspen does not support a distinct and consistent flora beneath their canopy.
4034353|Five species of Trillium are recognized as occurring in Texas. One species, Trillium pusillum var. texanum has the major part of its distribution in the state, while another species, T. gracile, is endemic to Louisiana and Texas. Three species, T. ludovicianum, which is reported as new to the state, T. recurvatum, and T. viridescens are considered to be peripheral species. The study, based upon field work and study of herbarium specimens, includes a key to species, partial synonymy, descriptions, specimen citations, and a distribution map of the species.
4031580|Godfrey, R. K. (Dept. of Biological Sciences, Florida State University, Tallahassee, Fla.) Additions to the summer check list of the vascular plants of the Highlands region. Distribution records for 36 species added to the check list, reidentifications of 5.
4034071|Nestronia umbellula Raf. (Santalaceae) is reported from Kentucky for the first time. The Wayne County site is approximately 200 km north of the nearest known site. Site information is given and speculation raised about the possible role of native Americans as dispersal agents for this species.
4033058|Wood anatomy of Betula uber (Ashe) Fernald is described and compared with woods of other birches belonging to series Humiles and series Costatae. Anatomically, wood of B. uber is typical of birches in general. On the basis of pore size and frequency, fiber characteristics, axial xylem parenchyma distribution, and absence of aggregate rays, it is argued that B. uber is properly classified in series Costatae. Resolution of its relationships within series Costatae is not apparent from wood data.
4032415|This publication is one of a series preliminary to a manual of U. S. Leguminosae. The four genera presented include five native and five introduced species in the southern U. S. Four introduced genera reported for the U. S. are rejected. The treatment comprises generic descriptions, keys, and taxonomic and nomenclatural judgements. One new combination; Lysiloma microphylla var. thornberi (Britt. & Rose) Isely.
4033946|The recent introduction of Salvinia molesta constitutes a serious threat to aquatic systems in the warm temperate regions of the United States. Salvinia minima, the only other member of Salviniaceae present in North America, is considered native by current floras. Evidence is presented which suggests that Salvinia minima was also introduced to North America, probably during the late 1920s and early 1930s. Likely sites of introduction and subsequent range expansions are identified. The accidentally introduced salvinia weevil, putatively Cyrtobagous salviniae, was found to occur widely on S. minima in Florida but is not established in other states. The disparate distribution of this Salvinia herbivore may account for the reduced aggressiveness of S. minima in Florida as compared to its troublesome growth in Texas and Louisiana, where the weevil is not yet known.
4033894|We conducted floristic surveys of Horseshoe Lake Conservation Area (HLCA), a 3,702 ha refuge that was established in 1927. It is owned and managed by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources to provide habitat for migratory waterfowl. Fishing, deer hunting, camping, and wildlife observation are secondary uses of the refuge. Goals of this study were to conduct a floristic survey of HLCA, characterize existing plant communities, document threatened and/or endangered plant species, and compare results with other studies in the region. Based upon a floristic study of a portion of the area during 1968-72 and 25 collecting trips during 1993-94, a total of 685 taxa in 366 genera and 112 families were documented. One-hundred forty one (20.6%) were non-native to the study site. Thirteen taxa were state listed as threatened or endangered. A comparison with ten additional study areas in the region indicates that floristic relationships exist at the family and genus level. The families Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Fabaceae, and Polygonaceae and genera Carex, Quercus, and Polygonum were most important. The use of percent non-native taxa can be utilized to determine past and present anthropogenic disturbance to a site.
4034189| The woody communities of seven of the most intact bottomland hardwood forests of southeastern Louisiana are described. The seven forests are on old levee ridges associated with past distributaries of the Mississippi River. The communities were divided by diameter size class into overstory (10.0 cm dbh) and understory (3.0 cm  10.0 cm dbh). The overstory (27 species) and understory (24 species) shared 18 species out of a total of 33. The understory stratum in these forests was not as uniform as the overstory across the forests in both dominants and subdominants. The forests were divided into two groups based upon size and abundance of two dominant overstory trees, live oak (Quercus virginiana) and sugarberry (Celtis laevigata). Other important overstory taxa were water oak (Quercus nigra), red maple (Acer rubrum), sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua), and elm (Ulmus spp.). The average total overstory density for the forests was 358.5 stems/ha and the average total overstory basal area was 30.5 m
4032597|Houstonia montana (Chickering) Small (1933) appears to be morphologically and genetically distinct from H. purpurea L. (Rubiaceae). Houstonia montana was collected from the population on Roan Mountain, North Carolina, while H. purpurea was collected from populations on Roan and Bald Mountains, North Carolina. Statistically significant morphological differences were observed between the populations of H. montana and H. purpurea. Experimental crosses between H. montana and H. purpurea suggest that a definite breeding barrier exists between these taxa. Therefore, H. montana should be considered a distinct species, not an ecological variety or morphological variation of H. purpurea.
40983094|It is commonly believed that only a single species of Phragmites (Gramineae) occurs in North America. Here, field observation shows greater morphological differences than previously recognized between an introduced East Coast population and a native Gulf Coast population, and are sufficient to justify specific rank for each. These differences are discussed and illustrated, and a key is provided for separation. The introduced population, and the widespread northern native population (not studied), are treated as P. australis, and the Gulf Coast population as P. karka. Nomenclatural uncertainties are noted.
4032994|Eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) and beech (Fagus grandifolia) are the dominant tree species in the relatively undisturbed community in Bee Branch Gorge. Catbriers (Smilax spp.), muscadine (Vitis rotundifolia), and mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia) are the dominant shrub canopy species, and a sedge (Carex picta) and partridge berry (Mitchella repens) are the dominant herbaceous canopy species. Analysis of sub-samples from the total sample of 234 points shows that hemlock has its highest importance percentages in the lower two-thirds of the gorge, especially at the base of the bluffs and along the stream. High importance percentages for hemlock saplings and seedlings indicate its persistence in this relatively stable community. The majority of 20 soil samples were acidic sandy-loams.
4034256|Plant cover, density, and standing crop biomass were measured and compared in a created wetland and an adjacent freshwater marsh (reference wetland) in Charles City County, Virginia. No significant difference was observed between monthly standing crop in the created wetland and the reference wetland. Species composition differed between sites (mean SI < 0.50) with no significant relationship between species composition and distance from adjacent seed source. Dominant species in the created wetland (Eleocharis obtusa, Juncus acuminatus) were dissimilar to those of the reference wetland (Dichanthelium dichotomum var. dichotomum, Scirpus cyperinus). Results suggest that if both standing crop and composition are going to be used to establish short-term goals for a created wetland, these two measures should not be considered interdependent. Further, the high relative importance of perennials within the created wetland does not fit primary succession predictions, indicating that certain wetland perennials utilize "annual" strategies when substrates are available. Management alternatives should accommodate establishment of these species, which are important in early successional development of created wetland sites.
4032805|Governmental Land Office records were used to reconstruct the presettlement vegetation of Williamson County, Illinois, about 1807. The vegetation was mapped into four categories, prairie, savannah, and open and closed forest types. Oak-hickory forests were the predominant vegetation occupying 81.2% of the area; savannahs covered 16%, and prairies 2.5%. Savannahs, prairies and open forest were more predominant in the flatter northern 2/3 of the county, while closed forest was most abundant in the southern part where the topography is more rugged. Forest areas supported 109.2 sq. ft. of basal area/acre (24.1M
4032144|Descriptions of perennial herbs in current manuals have not received careful revision as to underground parts. "Stolon" and "rhizome," "stoloniferous" or "rhizomatous," are often used where reproduction is by roots as in Cirsium, Sonchus, Asclepias, Linaria and Cardaria.
4033567| Nickel concentrations were measured in leaves of canopy and subcanopy trees from two nickeliferous areas in western North Carolina. Over and downslope from the Buck Creek ultramafic body in Clay County, the geometric mean of Ni concentrations is 250 g/g in leaf ash, and only 3 out of 22 values are less than 100 g/g. The geometric mean from trees growing over the surrounding mafic rocks is 65 g/g, and only one value exceeds 100 g/g. Results from the Webster-Addie district in Jackson County are less consistent, but in one oak species higher Ni values occur in samples taken over or near the ultramafic rocks. The more complete Buck Creek results suggest that differences in Ni concentrations between species are less important than differences between plants in nickeliferous and non-nickeliferous areas. The ability of plants to assimilate nickel provides a potential prospecting tool for this element in humid temperate forests. 
4033073|The aquatic families of Magnoliidae occurring in Alabama include Ceratophyllaceae, Nymphaeaceae, Saururaceae, Nelumbonaceae, Cabombaceae, and Ranunculaceae. Keys, distribution maps, habitat information, and other notes are presented for the aquatic members of these families.
23274398|Buford Mountain Conservation Area, located primarily in the northeastern corner of Iron County, Missouri, on the border with Washington County, is both geologically and floristically unique. To help develop an area management plan, the Missouri Department of Conservation was interested in conducting a floristic survey of vascular plants on a designated igneous glade region. The purpose of this study was to provide a vouchered floristic inventory, and to document any occurrences of rare or endangered taxa. The floristic survey was conducted over parts of two growing seasons (from 7 August 2010 to 2 August 2011) during which specimens were collected on approximately weekly to biweekly intervals. A controlled burn that encompassed the entire study site was conducted by the Missouri Department of Conservation on 13 April 2011 in an attempt to discourage encroachment by Carya ovata (shagbark hickory) and Juniperus virginiana var. virginiana (red cedar). A total of 132 vascular plant taxa (including 15 taxa identified to the level of variety or subspecies) in 102 genera and 49 families were collected, including 3 ferns, 1 gymnosperm, 25 monocots, and 103 dicots. All of the taxa were native except for Setaria faberi (nodding foxtail). The most diverse family was the Asteraceae with 22 species, followed by the Fabaceae and Poaceae represented by 14 and 12 species, respectively. The most diverse genus was Panicum with six different species. Only one species of conservation concern was collected, Eupatorium semiserratum (a thoroughwort), which was abundant in the wooded areas surrounding the glades.
4034305|Within Florida, 407 plant species have been classified as endangered, and 114 as threatened. A process and methodology has been developed to identify and designate these species, and to assign numerical ratings that reflect the degree to which they are at risk. The process is here described, and the designated species are listed in ranked order to reflect the relative degree of endangerment of each. A list of 10 species believed to be extirpated is appended.
40983091|The phylogeny of the southeastern United States species of Hymenocallis was investigated using 23 ISSR presence/absence characters and 10 qualitative and quantitative morphological characters. Maximum Parsimony (MP) and Neighbor Joining (NJ) analyses with bootstrap replicates were performed in PAUP. The total combined data NJ analysis showed several supported clades with morphological synapomorphies. Hymenocallis choctawensis was sister to H. franklinensis [83% bootstrap (bt) support]; these taxa share the morphological characters of oblanceolate leaves, few ovules and the presence of rhizomes. Hymenocallis coronaria was sister to H. liriosme (63% bt) and these taxa share the morphological feature of a prominent yellow "eye" in the middle of their staminal cups and both reproduce asexually by offsets rather than by rhizomes. Hymenocallis godfreyi + H. rotata + H. tridentata formed a clade (99% bt) with the morphological synapomorphy of a 2n = 48 chromosome number. Hymenocallis henryae was sister to H. palmeri (82% bt) with several morphological synapomorphies including subcircular scapes, hyaline margins on their leaves, scape bracts that do not enclose the flowers in bud, and tepals that are colored green. Finally, H. puntagordensis and H. latifolia were sister taxa (84% bt) with the synapomorphy of persistent (versus deciduous) leaves and free filaments that are green distally. Rhizomes appear to have evolved twice within the southeastern United States species of Hymenocallis: once in the H. franklinensis + H. choctawensis + H. gholsonii + H. pygmaea + H. crassifolia + H. duvalensis clade and once in the clade containing H. godfreyi, H. rotata and H. tridentata. The alliances determined by Traub for the southeastern United States species of Hymenocallis are generally supported based on this molecular and morphological analysis.
4032677|Selected multiple floral characters are more completely described, and morphometric studies done for the first time, to determine if flower characteristics in Sarracenia L. could play a greater taxonomic role than in the past, when pitcher leaf characters were emphasized almost exclusively. The data indicate that this is indeed the case, and that subjective and morphometric flower characters may also be of value in determining relationships of populations within the genus.
4032676|Forest stands in south-central Ohio between Xenia and Wrightsville are described. Variation of species composition is graphically displayed using polar (Bray-Curtis) ordination. Although the stands include those from the Wisconsinan glacial region, the region of Illinoian drift, and the unglaciated region of Ohio, the structural data did not cluster into three distinct groups. A gradient of moisture availability sorted out stands between those of a more mesic phase dominated by Acer saccharum and Fagus grandifolia and xeric phase stands dominated by Quercus alba. Flood-plain stands and successionally immature variations are also described. Intra-stand species diversity and concentration of dominance patterns are described.
4033190|Woody plant invasion was investigated on Andrews and Gregory Balds in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Both balds showed a steady, approximately linear decrease in area. Equations predict that Gregory Bald will be covered by forest about 2007 A.D. and Andrews Bald will be covered by 2042. Blueberries on Gregory Bald have increased from 20% cover in 1964 to 53% in 1975. Most of the regeneration on both grassy balds dates from the cessation of grazing. Hawthorn (Crataegus macrosperma) and serviceberry (Amelanchier laevis) are the most abundant invaders of Gregory Bald but red oaks (Quercus rubra) grow well, once they become established. Serviceberry is the most abundant species on the open portion of Andrews Bald, followed by fir (Abies fraseri) and hawthorn.
4033592|Fruiting branchlets of Cornus florida were artificially defoliated to determine the extent and nature of reproductive adjustment in this species. Infructescence abortion and fruit abortion increased in response to defoliation, but only fruit abortion was statistically significant. Defoliation significantly decreased fruit size. Reproductive adjustments were roughly proportional to the extent of defoliation, with fruit set decreasing about 6% and fruit biomass decreasing about 8 mg per leaf removed. Fruit development continued even after complete defoliation, indicating significant assimilate production of developing fruits and/or ability of branchlets to draw assimilate from neighboring branchlets. We conclude that in flowering dogwood assimilate supply controls the number of filled fruits and the rate at which they grow.
4033346|Vascular plant communities in six Carolina bays in Maryland were classified using stratified-random plot sampling of presence and cover in conjunction with Bray-Curtis Polar Ordination and Sorensen's Index of Dissimilarity. Species diversity and annual cover differences also were analyzed during the two-year study period of 1987-1988. Collectively, five zonal community types were identified in the ground layer. The most frequent type, dominated by Leucothoe racemosa Gray, was restricted to the forested perimeter. The Carex walteriana Bailey (C. striata Michx.) community occurred as an interlying zone near or contiguous with the forested perimeter and as the sole non-perimeter community. Panicum hemitomon Schult. only occurred as a narrow band near or adjacent to the forested perimeter. Rhexia virginica L. and P. verrucosum Muhl. communities were restricted to the innermost non-perimeter zone. Species diversity and annual differences in cover generally increased from perimeter to center. Leucothoe racemosa, P. hemitomon, and C. walteriana communities, restricted to drier portions of the gradient, had lower values for these parameters than the more mesic R. virginica and P. verrucosum communities.
4033617|Distinct differences in the phytoplankton composition at upstream and downstream stations were documented for the Duplin River, Georgia. A phytoflagellate and cyanobacterial flora predominated the upstream station. Downstream diatoms and cyanobacteria were dominant. At the downstream station a winter-spring bloom was dominated by Asterionella glacialis Castracane and Skeletonema costatum (Grev.) Cl., with the latter species also abundant in the autumn. The seasonal occurrence and general abundance of the 177 taxa recorded are presented. The general composition of the algal flora is similar to that previously reported for the southeastern continental shelf.
4033024|In the central Blue Ridge of Virginia, post-chestnut slope/lead forests were found usually to be dominated by Quercus prinus at lower elevations and in less mesic sites, and by Quercus rubra at higher elevations and more mesic sites. Carya ovalis often shared dominance with either oak, and Betula lenta was an important associate with Q. rubra at higher elevations. Betula lutea overwhelmingly dominated on high north-facing slopes. Liriodendron tulipifera was not important in old growth slope/lead stands, but was abundant in post-cultivation succession. Each draw stand was heavily dominated by only one or two species, but which of several mesic species dominated varied from stand to stand. Tsuga canadensis, Liriodendron, Betula lutea, Acer saccharum, Tilia heterophylla and Carya cardiformis all dominated in one or more old growth draw stands. Within draws Fagus grandifolia, Tsuga, Acer rubrum, and Betula lenta occurred in less fertile soils, and Carya cordiformis, Tilia, Acer saccharum, and Prunus serotina in more fertile soils. The central Blue Ridge slope/lead forests lacked the abundant Quercus coccinea and Acer rubrum of Alleghany post-chestnut forests, and had much less Quercus alba and much more Carya than Whittaker found in the Great Smokies and Braun reported in the Blue Ridge farther north. Carya ovalis may be the most important species in chestnut replacement in the central Blue Ridge of Virginia.
4033385|The known distribution of Quercus arkansana Sarg. in Georgia is expanded from one to eight counties.
4032721|A description of the mojor plant communities and their diversified habits with an annotated list of the flora, along a three-mile stretch of the Tygart Valley River, running northeast from Arden, West Virginia. Ninety-one families with 458 taxa on the species or variety level are reported in a list of the vascular flora which has been compiled from collections made from May 1968 to October 1975. Included are 86 county records and five new State records.
4033084|Bryophytes were collected from Hanging Rock in conjunction with a study of the vascular flora and vegetation of the area. The dominant mosses are described for northern hardwoods, northern red oak, pine-oak/heath, shrub bald, and grass bald communities. An annotated list of all bryophytes collected reports the communities and microhabitats in which each species was found. The Hanging Rock flora contains twenty percent of the mosses reported for the Blue Ridge Province in North Carolina.
20433901|In the fall of 2000, a ground fire burned much of the Linville Gorge Wilderness Area, North Carolina, providing an opportunity to study the effects of fire on an oak-pine forest that had not been burned in 50 years. There was no immediate overstory mortality in our study plots. Most aboveground stems of Kalmia latifolia were killed back, but most survived and subsequently resprouted. Fire reduced surface organic horizons by nearly 50%, and increased light penetration 15%, resulting in greater soil temperature extremes. Fire increased species richness in the herb layer and allowed establishment of pine seedlings and also the exotic invasive tree species Paulownia tomentosa. Rates of soil respiration and litter decomposition were significantly lower in burned plots one year post-fire. Changes in the microenvironment in the lower strata following fire were caused primarily by the disappearance of the Kalmia canopy. This temporary loss of the shrub layer appeared to influence composition of the ground layer as well as fostering the re-accumulation of surface soil carbon via reduced litter decay.
4033707|The relationship of the tree and woody understory flora of sixteen 0.034 ha southern mixed hardwood forest stands to environmental characteristics was studied on the University of West Florida campus. Thirty-five tree and 65 woody understory species were recorded. The dominant tree species were Quercus hemisphaerica, Pinus glabra and Fagus grandifolia. In the woody understory, the dominant species were Ilex vomitoria and Illicium floridanum. The principal gradient of variation in species composition of both the trees and woody understory was related to slope angle and position. Gentle, upper slopes that had been previously logged were dominated by Pinus palustris trees, Q. hemisphaerica saplings and Ilex vomitoria in the woody understory. Steep, lower slope positions were characterized by relatively undisturbed F. grandifolia with Illicium floridanum in the understory. Soil parameters were of secondary importance although the proportion of evergreen species in the understory was related to soil pH, phosphorus and calcium.
23274386|A comprehensive survey of the vascular flora of a constructed wetland in Grady County, Georgia was conducted at monthly intervals between August 2004 and May 2006. The constructed wetland is used as a part of a nutrient remediation system to improve the sustainability of plant nursery water-handling practices. The survey evaluated vegetation in a 3.1 ha, two-stage constructed wetland consisting of two deep cells (Stage 1; mean depth 0.75 m) totaling 1.8 ha that drain into two shallow cells (Stage 2; mean depth 0.2 m) totaling 1.3 ha. Each cell was band planted in 1997 with seedlings or liners of six wetland plant species. During the 2-yr survey, 141 distinct species were collected from the 3.1 ha constructed wetland; of the taxa collected, there were 101 genera from 51 families. Native taxa made up 76.6% of the species recorded, and 24.1% of the taxa were introduced. Hydrophytic plants accounted for 68.1% of the plants collected and the remainder (31.9%) were classified as nonhydrophytes. Because 57.4% of the taxa surveyed were perennial, it is likely that plant propagules introduced by wildlife (waterfowl, reptiles, and amphibians) were the dominant method of plant introduction rather than primary succession. Vascular plant community diversity increased 24-fold during the 9-yr period after constructed wetland installation.
4034124| We examined species composition and structure of riparian forest (woody plant stems 2.5 cm dbh) and herbaceous layer (vascular plants 2 m in height) of two upper Allegheny River islands (Hemlock and King Islands, Forest County) in the nonglaciated Allegheny Plateau of northwestern Pennsylvania. Twelve species were recorded from the large tree stratum (stems 10.0 cm dbh) at Hemlock and King Islands with Acer saccharinum and Platanus occidentalis as leading dominants. Sixteen species were recorded from the small tree stratum (stems < 10.0 cm dbh but 2.5 cm dbh) at both islands; Fraxinus americana, Carya cordiformis, and Salix nigra were dominant. Fifty-nine vascular plant species were recorded from the herbaceous layer of both islands with Phalaris arundinacea, Viola sororia, Geum canadense, Pilea pumila, Lysimachia nummularia, L. ciliata, Alliaria petiolata, and Polygonum scandens as dominant species. Seventeen percent of the herbaceous layer flora of both islands was non-native including three species (Alliaria petiolata, Polygonum cuspidatum, Rosa multiflora) that are invasive pests. Tree density (stems 2.5 cm dbh) ranged from 78 to 138 stems/ha, indicating a relatively open, savanna-like forest. Unimodal diameter distributions for Acer saccharinum and Platanus occidentalis revealed an underrepresentation of smaller size classes suggesting that either these species recruit episodically or that altered hydrologic regimens have led to reproductive stagnation. 
4033299|Robinia is a temperate North American genus of four species. A broadly defined Robinia hispida of the southeastern United States consists primarily of sterile, mostly triploid clones; fertile, diploid kinds are locally endemic in the southern Appalachians. Robinia viscosa, of restricted natural distribution in the southern Appalachians, includes both fertile and sterile types. The other two species are R. neomexicana of the southwestern United States and the widely distributed R. pseudoacacia. There is evidently some hybridization between species both in nature and in culture. One new combination is listed: Robinia neomexicana var. rusbyi (Wooton & Standley) Martin and Hutchins ex Peabody.
4033285|Floristic data and county dot distribution maps are presented for fifteen species and one interspecific hybrid of the Primulaceae in the Ohio flora.
4033475|A taxonomic study of the vascular flora of Paynes Prairie State Preserve was conducted on the 1160 hectare southern upland property adjacent to the southern rim of the prairie basin. Plant communities of this area, forming a dynamic continuum and a changing vegetational mosaic, are typical of northcentral Florida and possess a moderately high degree of biological diversity. Collections of 573 species representing 123 families were made from January 1986 to December 1989 and are compiled in an annotated list. Voucher specimens have been placed in the University of Florida Vascular Plant Herbarium (FLAS). The species list and specimens will provide useful information for park personnel and other persons who are interested in the vascular flora and plant communities of northcentral Florida.
4034237|Daughmer Savannah, Crawford County, Ohio is the largest and best preserved remnant of the unplowed, deep soil prairies and savannahs that were present at the easternmost extension of the Prairie Peninsula prior to European settlement. Repeated surveys of plant species composition over three years were combined with quantitative community sampling of plants and soils during 1999 to produce a comprehensive ecological and botanical analysis of this 16 ha site. A total of 166 species representing 109 genera from 48 plant families were recorded. Approximately 30% of the graminoids and 20% of the forbs were species with strong prairie affinities. Three sedges listed by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources as threatened or endangered (Carex atherodes, C. bicknelli and C. sartwellii) were present. Detrended Correspondence Analysis identified six major community types within Daughmer Savannah: oak savannah dominated by Quercus macrocarpa, mesic prairie dominated by Andropogon gerardii, Schizachyrium scoparium and other prairie grasses and forbs, wet prairie dominated by Spartina pectinata or Calamagrostis canadensis depending on the area, sedge meadow dominated by a mixture of Carex atherodes and C. lacustris, bluejoint swales dominated by Calamagrostis canadensis and Muhlenbergia mexicana, and prairie pothole marsh dominated by emergent aquatic plants. Species composition and community delineations were similar to those developed for Wisconsin by Curtis in the 1950's. This site should be used as a model for restoration of diverse prairie landscapes in the region.
4033423|Fieldwork was conducted in Virginia to find new populations of Juncus caesariensis Coville, a rare rush of localized distribution in New Jersey, Maryland, and Virginia. Nine new stations were discovered, seven along power line rights-of-way. Four of the power line stations had two subpopulations. Habitat characteristics, distribution, and floristic associates are given. Although further investigations need to be made, it appears that early successional conditions favorable to Juncus caesariensis are being maintained in open, frequently disturbed power line bogs.
4034194|Virginia bunchflower (Melanthium virginicum L.) is known historically from wet-mesic prairie in 17 counties located primarily in west-central Illinois. Due to the loss of wet-mesic prairie, plants within six counties were extirpated during the 1800s, and populations within an additional six counties were extirpated within the last 15 years. This taxon is currently known from thirteen populations in three counties. These populations were studied over a three year period, beginning in 1998 and ending in 2000. Flowering varied considerably from year to year. Although large bunchflower colonies remain that contain over 800 plants, only two populations are currently protected. Population loss is expected to continue, documenting the need for greater protection and the introduction of this plant into suitable wet-mesic prairie restorations within its historic range.
4032999|Previously considered as Utricularia fimbriata Kunth, the tropical disjunct U. simulans Pilger was observed growing in western Collier County, Florida. Though previously reported rather widely in appropriate habitats in southern Florida, the older stations have been largely decimated by drainage and urbanization. Therefore, new stations were located. The habitat is moist sandy soils with very low nutrient content, mostly bordering the Big Cypress Swamp. In such areas, the species occurred in massive clumps with flowering peak in late October, and generally in openings among stands on Pinus elliottii v. densa and Serenoa repens.
4032600|A Preliminary Report on the Vascular Flora of the Sylamore Ranger District, Ozark National Forest, Stone Co., Arkansas. A preliminary floristic study of the part of this 175,000-acre area in Stone Co., north-central Arkansas, reveals the presence of 809 taxa of vascular plants. Of these, the Asteraceae is represented by the largest number of species, 133, followed by the Fabaceae with 54 species. A number of western and more northern species is included in the report in addition to several which are endemic to the area.
4033094|Fifty-six phytoplankters were found in a temporary standing water site which existed over a five-month period. A seasonal succession of species was noted from winter into late spring with diatoms, chrysophyceans, and chlorophyceans the major components.
4032646|The College Woods of the College of William and Mary is a 900-acre tract of land located west of Williamsburg, James City County, Virginia. A floristic survey of the vascular flora was initiated in March 1968 and continued through May 1969. A total of 565 taxa representing 322 genera of 105 families was recorded. New records for the Peninsula of Virginia (67) and James City County (86) are noted, and data on abundance and habitat for each species are presented.
20433922|Cossatot leafcup, Polymnia cossatotensis [Asteraceae], is an endemic of the Interior Highlands region of Arkansas. Polymnia cossatotensis was discovered in 1988 and is known only from four sites in Polk and Montgomery Counties of western Arkansas. Because of its extreme rarity, P. cossatotensis is listed as G1 and is considered critically imperiled. We visited Polymnia cossatotensis populations from 8 August to 11 August 2006 where we recorded general site characteristics and associated species, collected soil samples, and established population sizes using line transects. The estimated number of individuals for the species is 33,765 plants of which 33,719 are located in just two of the populations. Our findings emphasize the conservation value of these two largest populations.
4032337|Trees and shrub species of a virgin forest in southeastern Kentucky are reported. Based upon data from 135 permanent plots, 26 families with 72 tree and shrub species are recognized. Calculated frequencies reveal that Fagus grandifolia and Acer rubrum are the most widely distributed species in the forest overstory. Fagus grandifolia, Acer saccharum, Cornus florida, Kalmia latifolia and Pylularia pubera are frequent tree and shrub species found in the understory. Relatively low frequency of most species suggests that most are either low in density or not evenly distributed over a dissected landscape characterized by diverse habitats.
4034008|Two phases of a Landscape Ecosystem Classification (LEC) system were completed in the high rainfall belt of the southern Appalachian mountains in North Carolina. Phase I identified and described the interrelationships among vegetation, soil, and landform using species associations in late succession conditions. Phase II described the early and mid-succession forest types associated with each ecological unit identified in Phase I. A combination of ordination, cluster analysis, and discriminant function analysis was employed in Phase I which identified six ecological (site) units. Mesic, intermediate, and xeric site units were identified for each of two elevational ranges: 792-1219 m and 1219-1402 m. Discriminating environmental variables included elevation, soil solum thickness, and landform index, a measure of site exposure. This classification predicts the range of potential vegetation conditions that may exist on a given landscape and identifies sites that may have similar responses to management.
4032352|A study of a stand of white pine in Cranberry Glades, West Virginia indicates the rate of growth and development in a bog environment. Although near limits of tolerance for some factors, the present stand of 339 individuals has developed from a single invader since about 1900.
20433928|Allozyme and RAPD analyses conducted on Cypripedium reginae populations from previously glaciated and unglaciated sites indicated low species- and population-level diversity and moderate population differentiation. Low species-level variation may be attributed to founder effect during Pleistocene range shifts, genetic bottlenecks in a relatively small refugial southern range, and genetic drift in small and isolated southern populations during glacial advance. Populations from previously glaciated sites harbored higher genetic diversity than populations from unglaciated sites. This geographic pattern of population genetic structure is highly irregular among organisms with disjunct ranges where most studies have revealed higher levels of genetic diversity in unglaciated refugial populations. We attribute this pattern in C. reginae to the presence of abundant open wetland habitat near advancing glaciers that served as refugia for diverse northern populations that were well positioned to recolonize open wetland habitat after final recession of Pleistocene glaciers.
4032297|Kentucky, a state of great scenic beauty and natural attraction with a well developed system of state parks visited by thousands of people from the urban centres in the North Eastern U.S.A., is urgently in need of its own state flora and ecological botanical survey. The author has concentrated most of his time and attention to organize such a flora since his arrival in the state (August 1968) and this paper gives a survey of work done so far and it shows the unique features of the Kentucky flora and how its study can be coordinated with research and teaching which is relevant to the recent public urge for outdoor recreation and environmental control. A Bibliography of papers published on the Kentucky flora is added.
4033869|The quillwort Isoetes virginica was described from material from a single location in west central Virginia in 1937. Subsequent treatments have considered it to be either a rare Virginia endemic, a synonym of Isoetes melanopoda or as a broadly defined taxon including the Piedmont endemic Isoetes piedmontana. The discovery of a new population near the type locality and rediscovery of an historical station has permitted cytological and ecological investigations of the original species concept. These investigations establish that Isoetes virginica is tetraploid and provide additional morphological and ecological evidence for this distinct species. Characteristics separating Isoetes virginica from the morphologically similar Isoetes piedmontana and Isoetes melanopoda are discussed. A lectotype for Isoetes virginica is designated. This pteridophyte is considered a Virginia endemic with a total known population of about 350 plants.
27742892|The negative ecological impact of invasive plant species has been widely reported in recent years. Herbarium specimens can allow for the study of spatiotemporal spread of invasive species in order to understand distribution characteristics and patterns which can then be utilized for management decisions. In this study, three common wetland invasive plant species (Phragmites australis, Lythrum salicaria and Rorippa nasturtium-aquaticum) were chosen and analyzed via two previously published methods to determine the historic rate and pattern of spread as well as to identify periods of invasiveness. Performance of these methods varied in scale with a general, area-corrected approach covering the entire southeastern United States and an associate species-corrected method covering smaller, regional areas of dense historical specimen collection. Results showed positive spread over time for these three species in both methods; however, periods of invasiveness did not coincide between the two methods. The use of two different methods and the subsequent comparison of results show the importance of sampling bias correction, scale selection, and adequate sample sizes for spatiotemporal analyses of plant distributions using herbarium records.
4034314| This study examines the variation of bark thickness within and among populations of baldcypress [Taxodium distichum (L.) Rich. var. distichum] and pondcypress [T. distichum var. imbricarium (Nuttall) Croom] to determine its usefulness as a taxonomic character. Baldcypress from 14 populations and pondcypress from eight populations were sampled for bark thickness and trunk diameter. Significant difference was observed in the relation of bark thickness to diameter between the two taxa. When bark thickness to diameter (BT/D) ratios were analyzed, the ratios for baldcypress ranged from 1.2  10
4032869|A phytosociological and edaphic study was made of three stands of Betula nigra L. and four communities that lacked this species in the floodplains of the Tuckasegee, Oconaluftee, and French Broad Rivers in western North Carolina. After statistical analyses of the soil factors, stand ordination by principle components analysis, and stepwise multiple linear regression analysis of the biotic and abiotic factors, it was found that total clay was positively correlated with the river birch stands. It appears that the river birch not only can exist in soils with high amounts of soil moisture, but may also require soils which can maintain soil moisture near field capacity on a year-round basis.
20433912|In Pennsylvania, Dodecatheon inhabits upland woods and wooded rock outcrops in the Potomac and Susquehanna watersheds, respectively. We marked 60 randomly selected plants in each of six Potomac and eight Susquehanna populations. We assessed 20 characters in these plants in flower and fruit to clarify whether they represent D. meadia or D. amethystinum, both of which had been reported for Pennsylvania. The populations differ, often significantly, in the means of all characters; but they overlap in the ranges. For example, corolla color varies from dark to pale pink in all populations. The Potomac population means are greater than the Susquehanna means in scape dimensions, flower number, floral calyx lobe length, anther length, and capsule wall thickness. In the Potomac populations, mean capsule wall thickness is intermediate between the ranges reported by previous authors for the two species. In the Susquehanna populations, this feature resembles the values reported for D. amethystinum.
24619552|Conservation of rare species often involves restoration efforts to enhance or expand existing populations, a critical step of which is seed germination. Seed germination can be especially problematic in riparian zones where habitat disturbance through flooding can be a regular and frequent event. Spiraea virginiana Britton, a riparian clonal shrub, is a rare species that is particularly susceptible to problems at the seed stage; it is generally assumed to lack effective seed recruitment, although seeds are sometimes observed in the field. Therefore, we examined the effects of growth substrate and cold stratification on the number of days required for seeds to germinate and overall seed germination success. Overall, total seed germination for S. virginiana was low at only 10% and cold stratification had a significant effect on the initiation of germination; as the number of days of cold stratification increased, the time necessary for seeds to germinate decreased. Although seedlings of S. virginiana have not been observed in nature, this study indicates that seeds can germinate and thus recruitment by seed is at least theoretically possible. We recommend that a seed germination protocol using sterile soil with cold (5C), stratification treatment of at least 30 d should be used in future propagation and restoration efforts.
4032387|Twenty-two tropical stranded seeds and fruits brought to Carolina beaches by the Gulf Stream are listed and the collection sites mapped. The occurrences of these stranded seeds and fruits are correlated with ocean storms which have strong on-shore winds.
4034167|Changing disturbance regimes, particularly decreasing fire frequencies, may result in distributional changes of species across southern Appalachian landscapes. Some researchers have hypothesized that Pinus strobus (eastern white pine) is undergoing a change in site affinity from mesic to xeric sites in southern Appalachian forests, but no studies have evaluated the landscape-level status of P. strobus. We examined the status of P. strobus in a 225-ha old-growth Quercus landscape within the Ellicott Rock Wilderness (ERW) in South Carolina by sampling 80 plots. Pinus strobus exhibited the highest mean density (267 trees ha
4034260|A survey of myxomycetes was conducted at three sites within Cedars of Lebanon State Park, Wilson County, Tennessee from May 1 to September 30, 1993. Fructifications that developed on samples of bark and plant debris placed in moist chamber cultures were used to supplement field collections. The present report deals with 216 specimens representing 54 species of myxomycetes. Two of these (Comatricha fimbriata and Hemitrichia intorta) are new reports from Tennessee.
4034054|Myakka River State Park is located in southwestern peninsular Florida, east of Sarasota, in Sarasota and Manatee Counties. It is floristically diverse with plant communities ranging from dry, scrubby flatwoods to an extensive shallow lake-marsh system unique in this region. It includes the largest remaining area of the threatened Florida dry prairie community in the western part of the state. A floristic study of the 11,686 ha park was conducted and collections of vascular plants were made between April, 1986, and May, 1996. The names are compiled in an annotated list, which contains 726 species (731 taxa) representing 124 families. The plant communities are briefly described and the influence of fire management practices are discussed.
4034056|The only extant native population of Astragalus tennesseensis A. Gray in the midwest was monitored from 1984 through 1995, during which time there was a severe drought that extended from 1987 through early 1989. The total population size reached a low of 14 plants in 1989 and a high of 176 plants in 1990. The average number of plants present per year was 76.3. The average life span for 29 plants that survived their seedling year was 3.6 years, and the longest any plant lived was 7 years. Mortality of mature plants was due primarily to stem boring insect larvae. Mortality of seedlings in their first year was 67% and was apparently caused by moisture stress and uprooting by wind.
4032785|The Eupatorieae consists of nine genera and 34 species in Virginia, of which Eupatorium with 17 species is treated floristically. The other genera have been treated previously. Three species of Eupatorium, E. cannabinum, E. mohrii and E. pinnatifidum are reported from Virginia for the first time. Dot maps showing distributions within the state are included for 16 taxa, and keys to species and comments concerning ecology, flowering and fruiting times and general distribution are included.
4033092|Floristic data and county dot distribution maps are presented for the 23 taxa of Chenopodiaceae definitely recorded from Ohio. Several questionable determinations are also discussed. Because of difficulties in identification of some Chenopodiaceae, generic, specific and varietal keys are included.
4034143|Phacelia ranunculacea sensu lato (subgenus Cosmanthus, Hydrophyllaceae) occurs on floodplains and in alluvial hardwood forests throughout eastern North America. It is comprised of herbaceous annuals with alternate, pinnate leaves and white to lavender, tubular-campanulate flowers in terminal scorpioid-like cymes. The distribution of populations displays a disjunct between the Midwest and Atlantic coastal plain, with a chromosome number of n = 6 associated with the former and n = 14 allied with the latter. A phenetic analysis of morphological characters was conducted using 350 herbarium specimens examined from 21 herbaria. The resulting phenogram revealed two distinct clusters of specimens that correspond to the haploid chromosome numbers. Correlation of the clusters and chromosome counts with type specimens resulted in recognition of two taxa: Phacelia ranunculacea sensu stricto and Phacelia covillei. Results of morphological analyses, a diagnostic key, species descriptions, and lists of representative specimens are provided for these two closely related species.
4033602|Terminal leaflets, fruits, pistils, pedicels, bracts and staminodia of the North American Cimicifuga are illustrated and these illustrations serve as focal points for discussions of morphological variations. Cimicifuga elata and C. rubifolia have deeply cordate terminal leaflets and never produce staminodia. The nature of the petiole sulcus and the size, number, and position of bracts relative to the pedicel are found to be taxonomically significant and useful in field recognition of the eastern North American species. The mature petiole of C. racemosa has no sulcus. Measurements indicate that C. rubifolia has the fewest leaflets, largest terminal leaflet, longest follicles and smallest pollen grains in the genus. The occurrence of differences in xylem patterns in roots of the eastern North American species suggest the possibility of distinguishing them on the basis of anatomical characteristics. Species relationships are suggested. Cimicifuga rubifolia is a distinctive species as described by Kearney.
4033683|Many plant species that have been moved beyond their historical ranges by humans survive only under cultivation. However, some introduced species do naturalize and become a threat to the biodiversity of natural areas and/or production capacity of developed or agricultural ecosystems. Such invaders may be termed biological pollutants. One example of a new arrival that has become a biological pollutant in the southeastern United States is tropical soda apple (Solanum viarum Dunal) (TSA). TSA is a native of South America that has recently been reported in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and South Carolina, and poses a threat to all of the South. One objective of APHIS is to prevent the entry and establishment of foreign weeds such as TSA in the United States under authority of the Federal Noxious Weed Act (FNWA). Regulatory strategies that are utilized to protect the United States from foreign weeds include prevention (production of weed free commodities overseas); preclearance of high risk commodities at foreign ports of export; port of entry inspections; treatment or other mitigation systems; and finally early detection, containment, and eradication of incipient infestations that become established in the United States. Over the past several years, efforts have been made to eradicate 12 Federal Noxious Weeds at localized sites in the United States through cooperative projects with affected states.
4033966|A total of 265 vascular taxa were found on five limestone prairie barrens in northwestern Alabama. Floristic element percentages were within expected ranges except the percentage of southern taxa was lower, and the percentage of western taxa was higher than expected. Eight barrens taxa (Comandra umbellata, Cypripedium candidum, Dalea gattingeri, Eriogonum longifolium var. harperi, Echinacea purpurea, Frasera carolinensis, Mirabilis albida, Schoenolirion croceum, Spiranthes magnicamporum) are on the Alabama Natural Heritage Program Species Inventory List. Barrens are the primary habitat in Alabama for Eriogonum longifolium var. harperi which was formerly a candidate species for listing by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Other rarely collected species of the barrens were Aster pratensis and Thymelea passerina.
4033815|A floristic inventory was documented for O'Leno State Park and the northeastern portion of River Rise State Preserve, located in Alachua and Columbia Counties, Florida. Notes on climate, physical geography, and human history are given as an introduction to a discussion of the plant communities. Communities recognized within the 923.6 ha site include mesic hammock with limestone sinks, floodplain forests and swamps, marshes, scrubby flatwoods, xerophytic oak scrub, sandhill, aquatic vegetation of rivers, ponds and lakes, and old field or ruderal communities. Species, totaling 540 and representing 334 genera in 113 families, appear in an annotated list.
4032693|Seed of Heterotheca ruthii have no chilling or light requirements, and can be germinated and established under standard greenhouse conditions. Development of a nursery population is reported, and nursery-produced seed are offered to public institutions.
4033433|In contrast to dehiscence progressing from the apex which is characteristic of other Sarracenia species, capsule dehiscence in S. leucophylla progresses from the base. It is proposed that this adaptation allows seed release at a point where seeds are less likely to be caught by the adherent style disc. Post-anthesis tilting in Sarracenia flowers seems to function to move the style disc away from its ventral position where it could interfere with seed dispersal.
41819477|A 1.21-ha plot was established in a mature pine-hardwood forest (Hyatt's Woods) along a low stream terrace in southeastern Arkansas. Compositionally, this stand had considerable arboreal richness, with 26 different tree species 9 cm in diameter. Loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) contributed 42% of the stand's 37.1 m/ha of basal area; the remaining fraction included baldcypress (Taxodium distichum) and 24 hardwood species (no other single taxon exceeded 12%). Only a limited volume (15.2 m/ha) of dead wood was encountered. The large size of the dominant conifers and abundance of high wood density hardwoods at Hyatt's Woods yielded a considerable quantity of biomassat 317 Mg/ha, few stands in the region have more. With all species combined, tree stem location exhibited a random spatial pattern, but this changed when individual species were considered. For example, loblolly pine tended to be clustered on the higher portions of this relatively flat site, while white oak (Quercus alba) was well distributed across Hyatt's Woods, and baldcypress was associated with two abandoned stream channels. Unmanaged streamside forests in southeastern Arkansas usually contain high levels of arboreal diversity and biomass, and sometimes possess biological legacies that can date back centuries. These stands retain important structural and ecosystem service components in an otherwise increasingly fragmented and intensively managed landscape.
4033429|A population of Cleistes divaricata (L.) Ames var. bifaria Fernald, at its north-westernmost range limit and rare in West Virginia, more than quadrupled in numbers between 1980 and 1986 in an acidic, nutrient-deficient West Virginia meadow that is mowed annually. The aerial, upright ramicauls (stems) may be begetative with one to three leaves; when flowering, they typically bear one flower, one cauline leaf, and a floral bract. Long-lived flowers exploit naive bees, operating as rewardless bee-food-flower mimics. A hinged anther drops clumps of pollen tetrads onto the dorsal thorax of Bombus and Megachile workers. Pollination is effected when bees deposit pollen in flowers visited subsequently. Field capsules with 120 to 11,000+ seeds results from xenogamous and geitonogamous pollinations. Scarcity of pollinators and occasional severe herbivory of flowers and capsules lower reproductive output. Reproduction is enhanced by production of healthy pollen, low pollen to seed ratio, a highly efficient pollination mechanism, and high embryo viability.
27742878|Because of ongoing debate over the long term impacts of logging, we conducted a study to assess if second growth (70  10 years) rich coves differ from old growth rich coves (&gt; 125 years) in species diversity or composition. We sampled twenty-six 0.1 ha plots, representing these two age classes. We distributed the plots amongst three randomly selected mountain ranges in the southern Appalachians of North Carolina, and sampled each mountain range in separate years. We used nested subplots of 0.01 m2, 0.1 m2, 1 m2, 10 m2, 100 m2, and 1000 m2 to establish species-area relationships (SARs) for each age class. We found no significant differences between the SARs for the two age classes, nor did we find significant differences between age classes using the Simpson, Shannon-Wiener, or Sorensen indices of species diversity. However, we found that total cover of all plant species was greater in old growth rich coves, and that 10% of the tested species had lower abundance in second growth. No species were present in old growth and absent in second growth, but species with lower second growth abundance may warrant future study.
4032584|Reported for the first time from Tennessee are the following taxa: Rhynchospora fascicularis, Carex venusta var. minor, Arabis hirsuta var. adpressipilis, Potentilla anserina, P. argentea, Satureja arkansana, Solidago strigosus, Aster spectabilis, and Hypochaeris radicata; and others of interest.
4034337|The floristic composition of Beadles Barrens Nature Preserve, located in west-central Edwards County, Illinois was studied during the growing seasons of 1999-2002. The vascular flora of this 4.0 ha preserve consisted of 306 species in 75 families, including 65 species not previously reported from Edwards County. The herbaceous layer was dominated by prairie grasses with Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash (IV = 61.5 of 100) being the most abundant. Many other prairie species were common with Soliadgo nemoralis Ait., Pycnanthemum tenuifolium Schrad. and Carex spp. having the highest importance values. Trees were sparse with most occurring in a small (0.125 ha) grove located in the northwest corner of the barrens. Tree density in the grove was 432 trees/ha with Diospyros virginiana L. (IV = 54.6) and Quercus stellata Wangh. (IV = 53.9) being co-dominants. Herbaceous species were also sparse in the grove, consisting of Danthonia spicata (L.) Roem. & Schultes, Antennaria spp., and Lechea tenuifolia Michx. The Floristic Quality Index for the site was 61.3.
4033882|Papers on the phytogeography of the North American coastal plain are poorly represented in the botanical literature, despite the fact that the coastal plain is one of the continent's major floristic provinces. Some authors have discussed plant distribution and/or endemism for local regions, but none have treated the coastal plain as a whole. We synthesized data from many sources and have compiled lists of all endemic families, genera, species, and infraspecific taxa. Analysis of these lists, and of county-level range maps, yields recurring patterns of species distributions. We define and map 27 such patterns and list representative taxa for each. The boundaries of many of these patterns appear to circumscribe centers of endemism. We discuss underlying reasons for the high diversity and endemism in the coastal plain, as well as the geographical derivation of the endemics, the age of the flora, and the role of past geological events.
24619717|Overstory and understory data were collected over a 15-year period (19962011) before and after seed tree logging in 1996 and an accidental wildfire in 2006 in a young developing mixed-oak forest in central Pennsylvania. The mature forest overstory was dominated by chestnut oak (Quercus montana) followed by northern red oak (Quercus rubra), black oak (Quercus velutina), scarlet oak (Quercus coccinea), and red maple (Acer rubrum). Logging reduced the stand basal area by 76% and the tree density by 80%. Tree regeneration was dominated by red maple and mixed-oak species with 32,956 stems per ha prior to logging, which increased to 47,170 stems per ha eight years later. Wildfire reduced tree regeneration to an average of 22,511 stems per ha over three sample periods, with the largest reduction in red maple (60%), followed by red oak species (36%) and chestnut oak (17%). The mean maximum height of plot-dominant regeneration for red maple and the four oak species increased significantly during the eight years after logging (from 0.14 to 1.29 m), but was reduced by 27% after wildfire (most in red oak, 56%). The maple and oak species again had rapid height growth for four years after wildfire, by which time they exceeded their preburn heights. The success of oak species in this study is related to their ability to produce a relatively large number of seedlings (before and after logging and after fire) and match or exceed the height growth of red maple after these disturbances.
4033022|Observations on the ecology and biology of Drosera linearis Goldie in Lake Huron shore marl fens in northeastern lower Michigan are presented, some of the material being confirmation of previous observations but with new concepts as well. Detailed water and soil analyses of the two representative marl fen types in which the species occurs are presented for several locations. Comments on the relation of D. linearis to habitat and sympatric plants including other Droseras are included along with some insights gained of innate and imposed growth characteristics by cultivation of the species in various "soils." It is concluded that the general landward aspect of D. linearis stands within an open portion of a marl fen may be related to weather events. It is also concluded that the species grows where it does because it is intrinsically a poor competitor even with mosses which commonly support other members of its genus. D. linearis appears to have more diverse capability in varying climate and pH environments than previously thought as long as competition, soil moisture, light and solution total solids are controlled.
4032462|Disjunct populations and fossil records indicate vast migrations of plants, and the extinction of many species over large areas of Virginia.
4033682|The submersed macrophyte hydrilla [Hydrilla verticillata (L.F.) Royle], which is native to the warmer areas of Asia, was first discovered in the United States in 1960. A highly specialized growth habit, physiological characteristics, and reproduction make this plant well adapted to life in submersed freshwater environments. Consequently, hydrilla has spread rapidly through portions of the United States and become a serious weed. Where the plant occurs, it causes substantial economic hardships, interferes with various water uses, displaces native aquatic plant communities, and adversely impacts freshwater habitats. Management techniques have been developed, but sufficient funding is not available to stop the spread of the plant or implement optimum management programs. Educational efforts to increase public and political awareness of problems associated with this weed and the need for adequate funding to manage it are necessary.
4034065|Keys and descriptions are presented for the 12 genera and 31 species of Acanthaceae in the southeastern United States. The largest genera include: Ruellia (9 spp., 4 sspp., 4 var.) and Justicia (6 spp., 2 var.).
4033373|Sesbania is circumscribed by some authors to include sections Daubentonia and Glottidium. Others consider these sections as distinct genera closely related to Sesbania. Most recently, Glottidium has been treated as a monotypic genus and Daubentonia retained as a section of Sesbania. Comparative anatomy of cotyledons, leaves, and pericarps of species of Glottidium, Daubentonia and Sesbania (sensu stricto) from the southeastern United States reveals numerous shared character states; however, pericarp anatomy distinguishes Glottidium from the other taxa. These results are consistent with the segregation of Glottidium and the retention of Daubentonia within Sesbania.
4033286|In 1955 a campfire near Waterrock Knob in the Plott Balsam Mountains escaped and burned about one hectare of mature red spruce-Fraser fir forest. The resultant forest community contains some of the species commonly associated with mature logged spruce-fir forests, but many of the species present are primarily disturbance species associated with fire cherry communities and grass and heath balds. A severe fire, burned soils, and erosion are probably responsible for the dense shrub layer, unique species composition, and slow recovery of this site.
4033983|Yellow pines (Pinus rigida, P. virginiana, P. echinata, and P. pungens) and oaks (Quercus spp.) dominate xeric slopes and ridges in western Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP). In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, these sites burned frequently. Since about 1940, the Park Service has suppressed fire, prompting concerns over possible changes in forest composition and structure. This study documents changes in xeric forests using non-permanent plots sampled in 1936-37, permanent plots established in 1977-79, and a subset of those permanent plots resampled in 1995. Some permanent plots burned just prior to sampling in the 1970s, while others have not burned since before 1940. Between the 1930s and 1970s, canopy density, basal area, and canopy richness increased dramatically on fire-suppressed sites. While high-intensity fires reduced canopy density and basal area to low levels, low-intensity fires did not significantly reduce canopy density or basal area relative to fire-suppressed sites. Between the 1970s and 1995, canopy density on fire-suppressed and low-intensity fire sites remained relatively stable, while that on sites of high-intensity fires increased rapidly. During this period, abundant regeneration of yellow pines occurred on some burned sites. On fire-suppressed sites, densities of Acer rubrum, Nyssa sylvatica, Pinus strobus and Tsuga canadensis have increased. Changes in the canopies of xeric forests since the onset of fire suppression may alter response to future fire events and complicate the restoration of historical composition and structure in these communities.
40793291|A calculation is presented that converts plant frequency per plot size sampled to expected frequency per any plot size of interest so as to compare studies that used different plot sizes or to assess degrees of spatial randomness in individual studies that used multiple plot sizes. Expected frequency is exponentially related to measured frequency, being dependent on plot size of interest relative to plot size from which measured frequency was obtained. Expected frequency per plot size of interest (F e ) may be expressed as Fe = 1 - (1 -F s ) r , where F s is measured frequency per plot size sampled and r is the ratio of plot size of interest to plot size sampled. The calculation assumes that plants are randomly distributed, or approximately so, and criteria for presence of plants in plots are consistent in studies being compared.
4033400|Fifteen species of Vaccinium L. (Ericaceae) are reported as native to Virginia. These are treated floristically and taxonomically. Instead of a single highbush species, Vaccinium corymbosum, five are proposed. Hybrids are discussed. Keys to sections and species are provided. Distribution for each species and one hybrid by counties within the state is shown on maps.
4034259|Stenanthium gramineum (Ker-Gawl.) Morong (grass-leaved lily) is known historically from 19 populations in 13 counties in Illinois. Seven populations in the southern one-third of the state are extant and three extirpated; nine could not be located. Population size ranged from 106 plants at the Richand County site to 611 at a Pope County site. All of the populations occupied an area of 75 m
4032814|A floristic survey of Raven Rock State Park, in Harnett County, N.C., was made during 1971-72. The survey lists 383 species, 42 (10%) of which are new county records.
4033422|Sagittaria fasciculata E. O. Beal is an aquatic plant endemic to two counties of the Carolinas. It occurs in partially shaded, constantly flowing seeps over a substrate consisting of a hydrated muck-sand suspension. Stagnation of the water flow, disturbance by man or cattle and periods of very rapid flow result in reduced population densities. Other species, notably Murdannia keisak, stabilize the soil, shade, and probably compete with Sagittaria for nutrients. Weeded plots of Sagittaria show increased numbers of plants and increased flower production. Weeding, therefore, may prove a valuable tool in managing preserves for S. fasciculata.
41301502|Didiplis diandra is a small shoreline aquatic plant scattered throughout eastern North America. In the Atlantic coast states from Virginia to Georgia it has been confused with other species that grow in similar habitats. Leaves of D. diandra are heterophyllous, submersed leaves average 15.4 mm long while emersed leaves average 6.3 mm long. A taxonomic key is presented to aid in identification of small shallow water and shoreline aquatic plants including members of the genera Callitriche, Crassula, Elatine and Ludwigia.
4032875|A floristic study of the vascular plants of Lost Valley, Newton County, Arkansas, in the Boston Mountains of the Interior Highlands, was initiated in April, 1974, and continued through May, 1975. Several mixed mesophytic Appalachian disjuncts and Ozarkian endemics are represented in five vegetation community types in the Oak-Hickory Forest Region. An annotated list of 658 taxa representing 372 genera of 104 families is included; these represent 261 Newton County records.
4034020|The vegetation, structure, and composition of a mature mixed-hardwood forest in western Maryland was sampled to determine its similarity to old-growth forests characteristic of the mid-Atlantic region. Size class distribution, maximum tree age, basal area, stem density, and coarse woody debris (CWD) volume were consistent with those recorded for other eastern old-growth forests. Betula lenta and Acer rubrum account for almost two-thirds of the overstory stems but only one-fifth of the basal area. Quercus spp. account for over two-thirds of the overstory basal area and about one-quarter of the stems. Betula lenta, A. rubrum, and Prunus virginiana were the most abundant saplings. No Quercus spp. were found in the sapling layer. Most downed debris were in advanced stages of decay and oriented in a southerly direction. Standing snags were primarily in advanced stages of decay, with Robinia pseudoacacia having the highest frequency. Volume of CWD averaged 54.16 m
4033168|A white flowered variant of Pinguicula caerulea Walt. is herein described as f. leucantha, its significance being possible confusion in field identification with commonly white-flowered plants of P. pumila Michx.
41058088|This study provides quantitative ecological targets for restoring degraded peatbased Carolina Bays in the Carolina Flatwoods Ecoregion. Cluster analysis of vegetation data from three Carolina Bay reference sites in Bladen County, North Carolina, indicated four plant communities present: pond pine (Pinus sertina) woodland, non-riverine swamp forest dominated by swamp gum (Nyssa biflora), high pocosin dominated by evergreen shrubs with scattered pond pine, and bay forest dominated by loblolly bay (Gordonia lasianthus). We classified bay soils according to surface organic layer thickness (OLT) into mineral, histic, shallow organic, and deep organic types. We monitored the water table of each soil type in one bay throughout one growing season. The soil types with corresponding water table regimes were: mineral (9.4 cm mean OLT with a rooting zone water table [RZWT] 39% of the monitoring period), histic (27.5 cm OLT and 76% RZWT), shallow organic (63.9 cm OLT and 84% RZWT), and deep organic (102.5 cm OLT and 57% RZWT). Pearson residual analysis and correspondence analysis revealed that pond pine woodland was positively associated with mineral and histic soils, non-riverine swamp forest with shallow organic soil, bay forest with deep organic soil, and high pocosin with deep organic soil. We concluded that peat-based Carolina Bay restoration in the Carolina Flatwoods Ecoregion should be gauged against reference data which suggests: 1) pond pine woodland be established on mineral and histic soils; 2) non-riverine swamp forest be established on shallow organic soils; and 3) high pocosin and bay forest be established on deep organic soils.
4033896|Diversity of emergent wetland plant species was measured in four tidal marshes on the York and Pamunkey Rivers, Virginia. Each marsh represented a different salinity regime (polyhaline, mesohaline, oligohaline, or tidal freshwater). The tidal freshwater marsh had the highest species diversity index of the sites. However, the next highest diversity index was seen in the marsh with the highest salinity, possibly due to an obligate halophytic component absent from the other sample plots. Facultative halophytes dominated the polyhaline, mesohaline, and oligohaline marshes. No similarity existed between the dominant flora of the tidal freshwater marsh and that of the other three marshes.
41301585|Proposed by Linnaeus in 1753, Phlox ovata was a name of long-standing use until Reveal et al. established that an illustration cited in the Linnaean protologue and designated as the type of the species by a later monographer was based on a species from a different family, seemingly rendering P. ovata L. invalid and making P. latifolia Michx. the proper name. The issue was processed through a series of taxonomic papers that resolved the typification issue and ultimately ruled in favor of retaining P. ovata, but floristic and ecological workers have mostly used P. latifolia for this species since 1982. The correct name for the Allegheny phlox is Phlox ovata.
4033181|Vernonia section Leiboldia (Schlecht.) Benth. & Hook. is a small, morphologically distinct group of six species ranging from south-central Mexico into Central America. In the present revision based on morphological studies of herbarium specimens, the section is treated as consisting of six species: V. arctioides Less., V. mexicana Less., V. salvinae Hemsl., V. lankesteri Blake, V. corae Standl. & Steyerm., and includes a new species, V. guerreroana S. B. Jones.
20433923|Solidago verna M. A. Curtis ex Torrey & A. Gray (spring-flowering goldenrod) [Asteraceae] is threatened in North Carolina, a species of federal concern, endemic to fireadapted longleaf pine flatwoods in the Carolinas, and is in the Center for Plant Conservation's National Collection of Endangered Plants. Highway construction threatens the largest known population of S. verna. We conducted a transplant study to provide information for the plan being developed to mitigate for the impact of the highway. Plants of the threatened population were transplanted into study plots on seven Coastal Plain soils varying in wetness. Half of the plots on each soil were controls with unclipped neighbor vegetation; the others were experimental plots with clipped vegetation. Soil was the most important factor affecting transplant survival. Survival was lowest on soils that experienced ponding or flooding. Neighbor vegetation clipping tended to improve survival, with the greatest improvement on soils of intermediate wetness. Soil wetness and vegetation treatment (clipped or unclipped) accounted for only 16% of transplant growth variation. We recommend establishing a mitigation transplant population on moderately well drained or somewhat poorly drained soils such as Craven or Lenoir. Managing the transplant population could utilize mowing during those periods when fire is not practical.
4032665|Biomass and net annual primary production were calculated for three flood-frequency zones in the streamside forest coenocline. Aboveground biomass estimates were 290.0 t/ha in the lower flood plain, 142.1 t/ha in the occasionally flooded transition zone, and 234.2 t/ha in the upland. Aboveground net primary production estimates were 12.5 t/ha/yr in the flood plain, 8.0 t/ha/yr in the transition zone, and 10.8 t/ha/yr in the upland. Data on the species distribution of biomass are presented. Biomass and primary production differences along the coenocline are considered to be the result of individual species responses to flooding, available water, disease, and timber cutting.
4033785|The seed surface morphology of Portulaca halimoides and P. suffrutescens is illustrated. Chromosome counts for the following species are provided: P. halimoides 2n = 18, P. smallii 2n = 18, P. amilis 2n = 18, P. rubricaulis 2n = 16, P. suffrutescens 2n = 8, and P. grandiflora 2n = 18. These data along with comments on morphology provide the documentation of characteristics needed to describe the species and write the key for the genus. A summary of trends in variability in the genus is given.
4032678|An undisturbed oak-chestnut forest in Shenandoah National Park, Virginia, had been surveyed by Braun (1950) before the chestnut blight. The same forest was resurveyed in 1977, about fifty years later. The present study tested the actual association of chestnut stumps with other canopy species. Quercus borealis maxima* was found to be the only species significantly associated with chestnut stumps. Although the blight created large gaps in the canopy, no new invaders were able to colonize these disturbed areas; species diversity therefore did not increase. The gaps were instead filled by Q. borealis, a later successional species. This may be explained by the close proximity of acorn-producing Q. borealis to clearings and the greater distances of other species better suited to germinate and grow in these openings.
4033013|Thalictrum hepaticum Greene (Ranunculaceae), a southern Appalachian taxon, is recognized as a variety [var. hepaticum (Greene) Keener, stat. nov.] of the polymorphic, wide-ranging Thalictrum pubescens Pursh. A key is provided for closely related species ranging throughout the southern Appalachians.
4032687|Seven plant species growing in bags of peat humus originating from Lake County, Florida identified in Fulton County, Georgia near Atlanta.
4032857|Reports of the nine named infraspecific variants of Sarracenia purpurea L. are critically reviewed and bibliography listed. The author concludes that at present, three of these are acceptable: ssp. purpurea, ssp. venosa and f. heterophylla. "Horticultural variety Louis Burk" (Wherry) may also be a genetic entity sufficiently discontinuous for separate designation but requires further study.
4034068|Two streams in the West Sandy Creek watershed of Henry County, Tennessee were studied for primary production. Bailey Fork Creek is a relatively undisturbed stream, while Holly Fork Creek is a channelized stream. In these sandy-bottomed, chemically-similar streams, twenty line transects were used to estimate the volume of submerged wood and to establish plots for photoautotroph sampling. Whole-stream gross primary production of unchannelized Bailey Fork Creek was approximately ten times greater than channelized Holly Fork Creek in August 1993 as estimated by diurnal changes in dissolved oxygen. Unchannelized Bailey Fork Creek contained approximately ten times more chlorophyll a than Holly Fork Creek due to the large biomass of periphyton attached to the large volume of submerged wood. Sand-associated periphyton and macrophytes were minor contributors to whole-stream primary production in Bailey Fork Creek (15%), but were the major contributors in Holly Fork Creek (96%). The results suggest that periphyton associated with wood is the most important contributor to primary production in the streams of the West Sandy Creek watershed and that wood removal from sandy-bottom streams may significantly reduce primary production.
4032977|A descriptive study was made in 1981 and 1982 of the vegetation and flora on an 18-year-old surface-mined area near Lily in Laurel County, Kentucky. More than 100 woody and herbaceous taxa were planted on about 25 percent of the area in 1965 and 1966. Some of the planted area and most of the unplanted area subsequently were revegetated by natural plant succession. The natural plant community was sampled by the belt transect and quadrat methods; the vascular flora was documented by field reconnaissance; and planted experimental plots were inventoried for surviving species. A Virginia pine-mixed hardwoods community was the major natural vegetation type. The vascular flora comprised 350 taxa from 84 families; 77 of these were nonindigenous taxa. Thirty-seven indigenous and 41 nonindigenous species have persisted from the original experimental plantings.
40792815|We examined the relationships between hemlock distribution and abundance and terrain attributes for the Coweeta Basin in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Field measurements were combined with GIS mapping methods to develop predictive models of abundance and distribution of Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carrire (eastern hemlock) and evaluate the co-occurrence of Rhododendron maximum L. (rosebay) and Kalmia latifolia L. (mountain laurel). Terrain variables were derived from USGS DEM 30-meter digital maps. Elevation, slope, aspect, terrain shape index, landform, and distance from stream were calculated from field measurements and the digital data. Terrain attributes such as elevation (r = 0.97, p < 0.0001), distance to stream (r = 0.94, p < 0.0001), and terrain shape index (r = 0.61, p = 0.0015) were good predictors of T. canadensis abundance. Terrain shape index explained 56% of the variation in R. maximum percent aerial cover (r = 0.56, p = 0.005). In the Coweeta Basin, T. canadensis was distributed as few, large trees mostly concentrated in near-stream locations, and it was closely associated with R. maximum. Tsuga canadensis mortality due to Adelges tsugae Annand (hemlock wooly adelgid) will result in a minor decrease in basin-wide basal area, but will substantially reduce near-stream basal area, and will also remove the largest trees in nearstream environments. In similar landscapes across the southern Appalachians, where I. canadensis co-occurs with R. maximum, riparian shading will likely remain unchanged.
4034246|Canaan Valley, West Virginia, contains one of the largest inland freshwater wetland ecosystems of bogs, marshes, wet meadows, and shrub and forested wetlands in the eastern United States. This study uses aerial photography and ground truthing activities to produce GIS-based vegetation maps for 1945, 1975, and 1997, in order to track changes in plant community types and to construct plant successional models. Between 1945 and 1997, there was an increase in the area covered by northern hardwood forests and Spiraea alba and Hypericum densiflorum shrub thickets, but only a limited increase of Picea rubens dominated forests. Beaver activity along waterways became an important factor in determining successional trends, causing shrub swamps to be converted to wet meadows and marshes. The least successional change occurred in bogs and old fields located at the base of surrounding slopes. Overall, successional trends appear to follow rather predictable patterns for uplands and lowland habitats. However, there is little evidence to suggest that P. rubens will replace hardwood species on the uplands.
4034338|Eighteen category one invasive species as defined by the Florida Exotic Pest Plant Council and nine category two invasive species are newly recorded for St. Lucie County, Florida as the result of surveys done by the authors from August through November 2003. These records document the rapid spread and need for increased monitoring of invasive species and the documentation of these specimens through the collection of herbarium voucher specimens. These records also highlight the gaps present in specimen vouchers in areas such as St. Lucie County due to a lack of monitoring.
4032504|Range extensions are reported for 34 species of lichens from Illinois and Tennessee. The ranges of 6 species are extended east of the Mississippi River. Caloplaca laeta is reported for the second time.
4032853|This report documents the occurrence and distribution of the species of Sarraceniaceae and Droseraceae in Louisiana. Keys, distribution data, and notes are provided for each naturally occurring species.
20433888|In June 2005, a large fresh-water marsh in Cameron Parish, Louisiana was surveyed for aquatic vascular plants. This marsh is bisected by the Intracoastal Waterway into a northern sector contained within the Lacassine National Wildlife Refuge and a southern sector. In September 2005, Hurricane Rita made landfall in Cameron Parish, Louisiana as a Category 3 storm. In June 2006, nine months after the storm, another survey of the marsh was made. Results from that survey indicate that the vascular flora of the northern sector were largely undamaged. In contrast, most of the plant species of the southern sector have been extirpated. It appears that violent wave action and salt poisoning from the storm surge caused this destruction. Additionally, it appears that the Intracoastal Waterway acted as a barrier to the storm surge and thus protected the northern sector of the marsh.
41819462|The high marsh in southeast Atlantic coast salt marshes forms a relatively small but ecologically important transition zone between low marsh and the terrestrial shoreline. However, long-term trend data from high marshes are limited to a few studies. Permanent plots established in a high marsh near Waties Island in northeast South Carolina were measured for plant coverage from 2002-2010. At the beginning and at the end of the study, four groups of plots were identified: mixed indicated by Borrichia frutescens, Distichlis spicata, and Fimbristylis castanea; Juncus indicated by Juncus roemerianus; Salicornia indicated by Salicornia virginica; and Spartina indicated by Spartina patens. Ordination of the 2010 plot data and soil analyses produced clear separation of the groups along a single dominant axis with Salicornia and Juncus groups at the high end of a salinity gradient and the Spartina group at the high end of soil organic matter gradient. Comparison of plots classified in 2002 to the same plots in 2010 suggested both stability and change, depending on community classification. Salicornia and Spartina groups were stable. The mixed group experienced a switch in dominance from Distichlis spicata to Borrichia frutescens, whereas the Juncus group had gradually declining importance of Juncus roemerianus and gradually increasing importance of Borrichia frutescens. These data represent patterns and trends in a system and time period not affected by development or influenced by high intensity disturbance, and can be used as a reference for other high marshes in the immediate area experiencing environmental change.
4034029|Emery Woods is a Quercus-Acer saccharum-Carya forest that meets criteria for old growth. Ordination analysis indicates that variation in tree composition is related to slope exposure. Size class analysis indicates that the current canopy composition has a high potential for change, as Acer saccharum is expected to gain in importance while without larger-scale disturbance most Quercus spp. and Carya spp. may be lost from the canopy, resulting in a lower tree diversity. We collected 219 vascular plant species from 69 families.
4033698|Brown Shale Barrens and Wolf Creek Chert Barrens are small, high-quality natural forest openings in extreme southwestern Illinois. Brown Barrens, dominated by Quercus stellata and Schizachyrium scoparium, and Wolf Creek Barrens, dominated by Quercus stellata, Ulmus alata and Fraxinus americana, are increasing in woody cover as documented by examining aerial photographs. To obtain preburn floristics and vegetation data, thirty 0.005 ha circular permanent plots were sampled in 1988 at Brown Barrens using a modified Daubenmire canopy cover method. In 1989, twenty-eight similar plots were established and sampled at Wolf Creek. Both sites were resampled in 1990 following spring prescribed burns. The fires did not significantly reduce the arboreal component nor increase the herbaceous component of either study site during the 1990 growing season.
4032419|The two tracts of woods comprising Dysart Woods are relatively undisturbed and contain white oak trees as large as 46 inches in diameter. A quantitative study was made of the North and South Woods to determine the similarities and differences among the species of trees four inches and greater in diameter at breast height. The statistical validity of Quercus alba as the dominant tree species in both tracts was considered. On the basis of importance values determined from the random pairs method, Fagus grandifolia in the North Woods and Acer saccharum in the South Woods are the dominant tree species. Quercus alba is represented only in size-classes above 10 inches dbh, whereas beech and maple are represented in all size classes up to 30 inches dbh suggesting that these species will continue to increase in importance relative to oak.
40983085|During the period of 1992 to 1994, ten belt transects, each consisting of a series of contiguous 10  10 m (100 m) quadrats, were established and sampled at seven study sites in southwestern Virginia and eastern central West Virginia. Each transect extended from a red spruce-dominated community through the ecotone and into the adjacent hardwood community. In 2004 and 2005, these same transects were resampled in order to assess changes that had occurred. As a general trend, red spruce either maintained its ecological status or increased in number in all size classes, with noticeable expansion into the hardwood community at some study sites.
4032637|Trillium pusillum Michaux exists as a species in at least three varieties with probably a fourth. Its sketchy distribution range shows a number of disjunctions. For the var. virginianum, a new Virginia County, a new physiographic province, and a new state are reported.
4033523|Historic records, interviews, and palynological data indicate that since colonial times, logging, live-stock grazing, and fire have altered the species composition and structure of Buxton Woods. Although evergreen oaks dominated the woods in the colonial period, loblobby pine (Pinus taeda) is presently the most important tree in terms of basal area. Since the beginning of this century, disturbance frequencies and intensities have fluctuated. Major logging of loblolly pine took place about 1910. Grazing animals were removed about 1937, allowing release of overgrazed understories. Human-caused fire was common in the early part of the century, but rarely resulted in major burns, probably because of low fuel loadings. Changes in understory structure indicate that Buxton Woods is succeeding to hardwoods, but in the interior of the woods, laurel oak (Quercus laurifolia) and red bay (Persea borbonia) are recovering much more quickly than live oak (Quercus virginiana) which is represented by a few mature trees and sprouts at scattered locations.
4033278|Paulownia seedlings were grown under 4 photoperiods--8, 12, 16, and 24 hours --for 97 days. Seedlings were harvested at intervals to determine the effect of photoperiod on growth and development. Height growth and total dry matter production were significantly higher in the 16- and 24-hour photoperiods. The 8-hour photoperiod decreased root development. Seedlings grown in the 8-hour light period were more efficient photosynthesizers showing higher rates of net photosynthesis, lower respiration, and lower CO
4033979| We present a flexible protocol for recording vegetation composition and structure that is appropriate for diverse applications, is scale transgressive, yields data compatible with those from commonly used methods, and is applicable across a broad range of terrestrial vegetation. The protocol is intended to be flexible in the intensity of use and commitment of time, and sufficiently open in architecture as to be adaptable to unanticipated applications. The standard observation unit is a 10  10 m (0.01 ha) quadrat or "module." Where the extent of homogeneous vegetation is sufficient, multiple modules are combined to form a larger, more representative sample-unit. All vascular species are recorded by cover class and in intensively sampled modules as present or absent in sets of nested quadrats. For each module, tree stems are tallied by diameter class; species with exceptionally high or low stem density can be sub- or supersampled to allow efficient collection of data and assessment of population structure. The most common plot configuration consists of 10 modules arranged in a 2  5 array with four modules sampled intensively; this size is often necessary to capture the complexity of a forest community. For rapid reconnaissance or inventory purposes, fewer modules are typically employed, and less information is collected. 
4032789|Betula uber (Ashe) Fern., a perplexing and literally unknown species first reported new to science from Virginia in 1914, has been eluding botanists for years. A recent survey of literature and field studies have brought together some previously overlooked data, but still no trace of living specimens have been found.
4033614|Fort Frederica, Saint Simons Island, Georgia was settled by English colonists in 1736. The fort and surrounding lands have undergone nine major phases of disturbance and regrowth since pre-colonial times. Written descriptions by colonial observers document the original predominance of evergreen oak-mixed hardwood forests on the upland portion of Saint Simons, instead of the contemporary successional pine forest. They also document the presence of extensive marshes and ponds, and many of which, including a pond outside the walls of the fort, are smaller or are no longer present. Records indicate the Indians, settlers, and slaves used fire for clearing dense vegetation. As a result of human activities, the fire regime on the island has probably changed from aboriginal times to the present, including a possible increase in large forest fires during the 19th century. The present vegetation consists of loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) with an understory of laurel oak (Quercus laurifolia) and water oak (Q. nigra) and other hardwoods on old field sites. Older stands are dominated by hardwoods, particularly live oak (Q. virginiana).
4032980|Floristic data and county dot distribution maps are presented for ten species of the Geraniaceae in the Ohio flora.
4033061|Plants were grown to maturity in an experimental garden from a composite sample of seed collected randomly from ten widely separated populations along the Mississippi coast of the tidal marsh rush, Juncus roemerianus. Progeny segregated into two plant types: hermaphrodites bearing perfect flowers and females bearing pistillate flowers. No plants with staminate flowers were produced, nor were there any exceptions to the above distribution of flower types on individual plants. Examination of 1,323 flowering plants revealed that 861 (65%) produced only perfect flowers and 462 (35%) produced pistillate flowers. Almost twice as many plants bearing perfect flowers were produced in comparison to those bearing pistillate ones. The reason for this ratio is not presently known. This study provides experimental evidence and proof that Juncus roemerianus is gynodioecious. Furthermore, gynodioecism in J. roemerianus makes it unique among rushes and rare among monocotyledoneous plants.
4033603|Eleven species of Myxomycetes are reported for the first time from West Virginia, bringing the total number of species known to have been collected in the state to 150. The collection of Comatricha reticulospora apparently represents the first record of this species from North America.
4033760|Practically no information is available regarding the population size and habitat requirements of Clematis socialis Kral, a federally-listed endangered species. This study was conducted to document population size and habitat characteristics for each of the four known populations. Population mapping revealed that most (75%) of the 17,866 stems counted occurred at a single site, and no plants were found on one site that had been grazed by cattle. Soils associated with all sites were mapped as Conasauga or Firestone series. A detailed study of the largest population included analysis of soil characteristics, light level patterns, and associated plant species. Neither soil chemical traits, soil textural traits, nor light levels varied significantly between microsites containing and lacking C. socialis. Examination of associated plant species in the largest population revealed that Phlox glaberrima was an indicator of C. socialis habitat on both macro- and micro-scales. Other species showing increased abundance in the zone containing C. socialis included Cynodon dactylon, Duchesnea indica, and Aster sp. Vernonia noveboracensis was less abundant in plots containing C. socialis.
4032313|Five species and two varieties of Liatris are recognized in Virginia. Key to species, brief descriptions, distribution maps, data on ecology and flowering and fruiting are included for each taxon.
4033879|A database of the county distribution of rare vascular plant species endemic to the southeastern United States was compiled in order to review geographic trends. A total of 482 species representing 246 genera in 95 families were identified as rare southeastern endemics. The histogram of total county occurrences for these endemic species is significantly skewed to the right, indicating that those taxa that are endemic to the southeastern United States are typically rare within the region. Six centers of endemism were identified: Central Peninsular Florida, Florida Panhandle, Southern Appalachian Mountains, Tennessee Central Basin, Mid-Atlantic Coastal Plain, and West Gulf Coastal Plain. This identification of geographic trends will assist in the proactive conservation of areas harboring large numbers of endemic taxa, and these data provide the first step towards an integrative understanding of the evolutionary ecology of endemic floras.
4034032|Alnus maritima (Marsh.) Nutt. (seaside alder) is a rare North American species known to occur naturally in only three very small, disjunct populations in northwestern Georgia, the Delmarva Peninsula, and south-central Oklahoma. The most plausible explanation for this disjunction is the reduction of a once-larger range, but factors governing the size of the three existing populations have not been determined. This study examined the possible reproductive limitations of A. maritima caused by its autumnal fruit ripening and corresponding seed dispersal habit. We found that most (65.7%) of the seeds were dispersed during winter months, and a model simulating their fate showed a reduction in total germination percentage from 63.3% to 19.5% after exposure of seeds to winter temperatures typical of native habitats. The total germination percentage declined from 57.9% to 39.7% for seeds overwintered on trees. Based on this evidence, we propose that timing of seed dispersal reduces seed germinability, thereby limiting the natural distribution of A. maritima.
4032720|A list of trees and shrubs found in a 15,000-acre, second-growth forest in eastern Kentucky is compared with a similar list complied from a 262-acre virgin forest approximately 25 miles away. the second-growth forest was logged about 1920, and portions have been burned several times, most recent severe fire being in 1955.
4033862|Many researchers stress the importance of nutrient limitation on barrier island plant communities. The accreting north end of Hog Island, part of the Virginia Coast Reserve--Long Term Ecological Research site, provided an opportunity to quantify amounts of plant biomass along a natural dune chronosequence (24, 36, 120+ yr-old dunes) and biomass response to experimental additions of nitrogen. In a one-year study, nitrogen addition increased plant biomass, with greater allocation to shoots than roots. In response to nitrogen fertilization, soil nitrogen increases were greatest on the oldest site while biomass increases were smallest. Naturally occurring NO
4032647|The floristic composition of the chestnut oak-dominated communities in the Uwharrie Wildlife Management Area was studied during one entire growing season. Rare, infrequent, and disjunct species are reported. The families and genera of the Uwharrie flora were compared numerically with those of Japan, southwestern Europe, and California. A list of 277 county records collected during this study is included.
4034293| In clonal plants, plasticity in spacer length and branching allows for placement of ramets in favorable microenvironments. We investigated shoot density, rhizome biomass, and leaf scars in populations of Acorus calamus L., an emergent macrophyte, in southeast Ohio. To evaluate the influence of edaphic factors on rhizome plasticity, soil, shoot density and rhizomes were sampled from A. calamus populations. MANOVA indicated no overall significant difference ( = 0.29, P = 0.22) in most soil variables within a patch. However, there were significant differences among population patches in soil variables ( = 0.00006, P < 0.001), shoot density and morphometric variables ( = 0.45, P < 0.001). Correlation analysis suggests that rhizome length is correlated with soil calcium (r = 0.75, P < 0.01), aluminum (r = -0.55, P < 0.05) and magnesium (r = 0.55, P < 0.05). Redundancy analysis (RDA) indicates that rhizome length, biomass and total number of leaf scars are positively related to a soil calcium gradient. Shoot density increases along a silt and nitrogen gradient but decreases with organic matter content. Our study suggests that Acorus calamus is a stress tolerator that displays plasticity in rhizome length and shoot density with respect to nutrient availability. 
20433976|Cumberland Island National Seashore, Camden County, Georgia, is administered by the National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, and comprises 14,740 ha (36,415 acres) that include property and historic residences once owned by the Thomas Carnegie family. A floristic survey of the 7,880 ha (19,472 acres) owned by the National Park Service was conducted to provide Park Service personnel with a vouchered plant species checklist, supplemented with salient information such as relative abundance, locality data, and general community type. Six intensive collecting trips conducted in 2004-2006 yielded 498 species of plants, including 233 species not previously vouchered for the Island. The four largest families were Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Asteraceae, and Fabaceae. Identifications of specimens in the Cumberland Island National Museum Herbarium were also verified and incorporated into the annotated list. Maps, descriptions, and photographs of the various plant communities are provided.
4034326|The Black Belt region of Mississippi and Alabama has long been reported to contain prairies. To assess the extent and distribution of these prairies, this study examined historical accounts of prairie in the region, compiled a map based on surveyors' plat maps from the 1830s and compared the flora of existing prairie fragments with other open ecosystems in the Southeast using data from the literature. Numerous historical accounts attest to the presence in the Black Belt of prairies of varying sizes, discretely bounded by forest. Surveys from the 1830s show that approximately 144,000 hectares of prairie were present in the Black Belt. Fragments of remaining prairie appear most similar in composition with other southeastern prairies, as well as nearby open ecosystems. This evidence suggests that Black Belt prairies were a relatively small but distinctive ecosystem in the region.
4033383|The relative densities of tree species in virgin bottomland forests of Louisiana are reported for eight types of sites ranging from well-drained second bottoms to almost permanently flooded swamps. The second bottom terraces and the swamps had distinct species associations, but the intermediate first bottoms were characterized by a continuum of over 15 species gradually changing in abundance from the best to the most poorly drained sites. The distribution of each species appears to be determined by its tolerance to flooding and saturated soils. These forests contained a wide range of size classes and many young trees, indicating a continual replacement of older by younger trees.
4034258|In this study, we used multilocus allozyme markers and maternity exclusion analysis to estimate dispersal distances in an old-growth population of a wind-dispersed conifer, Pinus palustris. Of 2,618 seeds analyzed, 11.3% did not have maternal parents within 75 m, 7.8% had a single possible maternal parent, and 80.9% had more than one possible maternal parent within 75 m. Using a variety of methods, a consensus dispersal curve was obtained and can be described as a broad mono-modal curve with peak dispersal at a distance of 35-60 m from the parent. Total gene flow beyond 75 m was calculated to be 54%, suggesting that a substantial percentage of gametes dispersed beyond 75 m. Results indicate that seeds of longleaf pine have the potential to disperse greater distances than previously reported, which may explain, in part, the low levels of genetic structure in this old-growth population.
40792820|Blackland prairies are a globally imperiled, rare plant community only recently discovered in central Georgia. A floristic inventory was conducted on six remnant blackland prairie sites within Oaky Woods Wildlife Management Area, 12 km southeast of Warner Robins. The 43 ha site complex yielded 351 species in 219 genera and 89 families. Four species new to Georgia were documented. According to several state and federal rankings, twenty-three rare plant species occur within the study area; these include one federally endangered species (Silene catesbaei) and one candidate for federal listing (Symphyotrichum georgianum). Twelve plant communities are described. The inventory supported the designation of a new ecological association, the Georgia Eocene chalk prairie. Maps of the study area and photographs of the prairies and rare plants are provided.
4034155|We investigated the composition and spatial distribution of tree species and their environmental and edaphic correlates within the Snyder-Middleswarth Natural Area old-growth forest located in the narrow and steep ravine of Swift Run in central Pennsylvania. Eighty nested quadrats sampled along 5 topographic transects (16 quadrats each) encountered eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis), yellow birch (Betula alleghaniensis), black birch (Betula lenta), chestnut oak (Quercus montana), red maple (Acer rubrum), striped maple (A. pensylvanicum), and eastern white pine (Pinus strobus). The occurrences of these species differed by topography. Increasing soil phosphorus and potassium, and elevation correlated significantly with shift from hemlock and yellow birch-dominated bottomlands to ridge tops dominated by chestnut oak and red maple. Increasing soil acidity was significantly correlated with the shift from yellow birch-dominated quadrats to those primarily occupied by hemlock. Size distributions suggest that hemlock and yellow birch populations are stable, while those of black birch indicate episodic recruitment that may follow tree falls and other perturbations. Size distributions for chestnut oak imply impacts from white-tail deer browsing.
4033114|The Asclepiadaceae consist of three genera in Virginia: Asclepias--13 species, 2 subspecies; Cynanchum--1 species; and Matelea--4 species. Distribution maps, based on herbarium specimens and personal collections, are included. A new key is presented which utilizes floral, fruiting, and vegetative characters.
4032484|The Alder Run Bog is an example of a northern bog, both in structure and in floristic composition. Conditions for the existence of this northern formation are maintained by altitude, topography, and the presence of cold springs flowing over a sandstone bedrock. The size of this bog is greatly increased by the presence of a beaver pond which also provides an open water habitat. The species number in the bog is limited, but many of those present form large distinct zones and seem well adapted to a bog environment.
4034028|Canopy, woody understory, and herbaceous strata of headwater wetlands were quantitatively sampled in the inner coastal plain of Virginia and Maryland. Canopy species distribution patterns were then compared with field indicators of hydrologic regime using Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA). Sixteen canopy species, 21 subcanopy species, 9 vine species, and 40 herbaceous species were encountered in the 18 sampled stands. One third of sampled sites were overwhelmingly dominated (IV > 50) by Acer rubrum L., while Liquidambar styraciflua L. was important (IV > 15) in half of the stands. The DCA ordination separated stands dominated by Nyssa biflora Walter and Fraxinus spp. from stands dominated by Liriodendron tulipifera L. along a moisture gradient measured by a field indicator of microtopographic depressional storage. Sapling strata of most sites were overwhelmingly dominated by Liquidambar styraciflua L., although Acer rubrum L. and Fraxinus spp. were also important in many sites. In the subcanopy stratum, Carpinus caroliniana Walter, Lindera benzoin (L.) Blume, and Ilex opaca Aiton occurred in 60-70% of the sites sampled. In the herb layer, Boehmeria cylindrica (L.) Swartz, Glyceria striata (Lam.) Hitchcock, and Thelyptris palustris Schott occurred in 40-60% of sampled sites. The subcanopy and herb layers differed substantially in composition from headwater wetlands in North Carolina, perhaps a reflection of differences in climatic conditions and site histories relative to past logging and/or fire frequencies.
4032680|Regrowth of shrubs after one, two and three growing seasons following prescribed burning of herb-shrub communities at 1600-1800 m elevation in the Balsam Mountains of North Carolina was studied to determine (1) whether fire could initiate or maintain grassy balds in the southern Appalachians and (2) how often the U. S. Forest Service will need to repeat prescribed burning to maintain wintering habitat for the endangered golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos). Fire and browsing by native herbivores temporarily set back shrubs but cannot maintain grassy balds in the open condition in which they were found in the early 1900's. The results support the hypothesis that grazing by cattle, possibly preceded by deliberate burning, is responsible for bald information and maintenance. A maximum interval of five to eight years between prescribed fires will be necessary to retard further development of the shrub stand.
4033027|This paper discusses the woody plants which are known from the Shawnee National Forest in southern Illinois. It briefly describes the major vegetational divisions which occur in the forest.
4033863| The Ohio distribution, current state status and habitats of twenty-eight taxa of the genus Carex (Cyperaceae) are described. Three species and one hybrid are additions to the Ohio flora: Carex alopecoidea, C. longii, C. lucorum, and C. subimpressa. Four species may be deleted from the Ohio flora: Carex baileyi, C. gravida, C. merritt-fernaldii, and C. ormostachya. 
20433910|Physaria ludoviciana (Brassicaceae) is rare in Illinois, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. Environmental effects on floral development are unclear. Both self-compatibility and self-incompatibility occur within Physaria species. Objectives were to describe flowers, to determine how photoperiod affects flower development, and to predict whether flowers are self-compatible or self-incompatible. For photoperiods, greenhouse-grown plants were placed in either 16 or 8 hr photoperiods. Inflorescences and open flowers were counted weekly. For pollination, flowers were self-pollinated or cross-pollinated. Plants developed inflorescences after 20 and 28 d in long and short days, respectively. Inflorescences/plant increased for both photoperiods throughout the study. In short days, plants produced more inflorescences (10.8/plant) than in long days (7.1/plant). Anthesis started at 48 and 56 d for long and short days, respectively. Blooming peaked at 83 d (4.9 flowers/plant/day) for long days, and at 98 d (3.5 flowers/plant/day) for short days. Cross-pollinated flowers produced fruits, while self-pollinated ones did not.
4033487| Germination experiments were conducted on seeds of Aureolaria virginica (L.) Penn. in 1977, 1985, and 1986. The seeds were innately dormant when dispersed in early fall. Dormancy was broken by cold stratification. Optimum stratification temperatures were near 5C and the optimum germination thermoperiod was approximately 20/10C. Higher and lower stratification temperatures and summer-like germination thermoperiods significantly reduced germination percentages. There was a differential seed germination response among years. Maximum germination percentages were not only highest for 1985 but higher germination percentages were achieved after shorter stratification times and significant germination occurred in the higher incubation thermoperiods. These differential results may be associated with clearcutting of two of the collection sites in 1985. The variable stratification and germination response may be adaptations for maximizing the likelihood of surviving in a patchy and unpredictable environment. 
41301485|Carex molestiformis, described in 1997 as an endemic to the Ozark and Ouachita Mountain regions, is newly collected from Georgia, Mississippi, and Ohio. Herbarium records also have confirmed this species from North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia bringing the overall range of this species to 11 states. A morphological comparison of C. molestiformis from east of the Mississippi River with western populations did not reveal regional differences. Some eastern populations occupied ruderal habitat, namely drier grassy roadsides and hay meadows rather than the river bottom openings typical of western populations. New chromosome counts for this species from the eastern portion of its range confirmed existing reports of n = 37 and also found agmatoploidy with n = 35.
4033750|St. Francis National Forest is at the southernmost end of Crowley's Ridge in Lee and Phillips Counties of Arkansas. Most of the Forest is located on Crowley's Ridge and has narrow ridges and valleys carved into the loessal soils. A small portion of the Forest is located along the Mississippi and St. Francis Rivers and is characterized by level, alluvial soils. This study identified 104 vascular plant families, 285 genera, 424 species and 11 subtaxa on the Forest. The study was begun in the fall of 1989 and completed in the spring of 1991.
4033115|Agalinis auriculata (Michx.) Blake (Scrophulariaceae) occurs in the Gravois Creek floodplain in southeastern St. Louis County, Missouri. This is the only known extant population of the taxon in Missouri. The threatened population of Agalinis auriculata is a relict at the periphery of the species range and suggests that wet meadows or mesic prairie once interspersed present-day bottomland forest at the site.
4033936|Oak-hickory-pine (Quercus-Carya-Pinus) forests of Hot Springs National Park in the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas were analyzed and their composition compared with other forests in the Ouachitas, with forests of the mountains of the Arkansas Valley Region, and with oak-hickory-pine forests of the Piedmont east of the Mississippi River. In Hot Springs National Park, abundant Pinus echinata forms a background against which the abundances of hardwood species vary. DCA and CCA ordinations revealed that the abundances of hardwood species (but not pine) were strongly related to aspect and topography, with Quercus marilandica, Q. stellata, Carya texana, and the normally mesophytic Carya cordiformis abundant on southerly and southeasterly exposures; with other oaks (Quercus alba most important, but also Q. velutina, Q. falcata, Q. rubra) and mockernut hickory (Carya tomentosa) most abundant on nearly level terrain or less xeric directions of exposure; and with Liquidambar styraciflua and other more mesophytic non-oak species most abundant in ravines and along streams, where soils also had higher Na and Ca values. Hot Springs National Park forests were quite similar to those of other sites in the Ouachita Mountains, though with much less Quercus shumardii than has been reported in the western Ouachitas. Ouachita Mountain oak-hickory-pine forests are much like those of the Piedmont of the eastern United States, but differ from the latter in the presence and high abundance of Carya texana, which does not occur east of the Appalachians, and in lacking Liriodendron tulipifera and Quercus prinus, neither of which ranges as far west as the Ouachitas. The information in this article is offered as a partial remedy for the omission of that portion of the Oak-Hickory-Pine Forest Region west of the Mississippi from the most recent major treatment by Martin, Boyce, and Echternacht of the vegetation of the southeastern United States.
24619560|Buellia sharpiana is described as new to science based on material from a single locality at the summit of Mt. LeConte in Great Smoky Mountains National Park in the southern Appalachian Mountains of eastern North America. The species is characterized by its ascospore size, thallus morphology, medullary I reaction, and the production of xanthones. Comparison is made to two morphologically similar species, B. ocellata (Flrke ex Flot.) Krb. and B. jugorum (Arnold) Arnold.
4033724|Cross Creeks National Wildlife Refuge is a 3,588 ha (8,862 acre) unit owned and managed by the U.S. Department of Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, to provide food, water, and cover for resident, migratory, and wintering waterfowl. It was established in 1962 and extends for 16.09 river km (10 river miles) on both sides of the Cumberland River (Lake Barkley) between Dover and Cumberland City, Stewart County, Tennessee. Most of the refuge is on river bottomland that was agricultural prior to 1962. Management practices include moist-soil crops for wildlife, agricultural production, successional fields, and 16 managed pools where dams, levees, and floodgates allow water level manipulation. The Cumberland River and five major tributaries are permanently impounded with seasonal variations in pool levels. Various wetland habitat and community types occur, including marshes, swamps, dewatered zones, bottomland forests, and permanent deep water. The goal of the project was to conduct a floristic survey of the refuge, exclusive of a few peripheral uplands. Seventy-eight collecting trips between July 1990 and June 1992 yielded 633 taxa representing 367 genera and 116 families. Seven of these taxa are state and/or federally listed.
4034202|The federally-endangered species Dalea foliosa (leafy prairie clover) is a short-lived herbaceous perennial found in dolomite prairie. In Illinois, only five populations are known including one at the Midewin National Tallgrass Prairie (MNTP). In this paper, I present the results of a third year of reproductive success data and determine variation between years in reproductive success for this small isolated population. As in 1998 and 1999, 2000 reproductive success was high, although variation between years was found. Although the studied population of D. foliosa is small, isolated, and found in a fragmented habitat, these conditions do not appear to affect reproductive success.
4032397|Fluctuations in population densities of Ceratium hirundinella (O. F. M.) Dujardin and Peridinium cinctum (O. F. M.) Ehrenberg were observed in a small pond in Calloway County, Kentucky in relationship to weekly and seasonal variations of certain ecological factors. Collections were made weekly from each of five stations from September 19, 1969 to April 29, 1970. Water samples were analyzed chemically for pH, turbidity, iron, phosphate, oxygen, hardness, carbon dioxide, and nitrate. Air and water temperatures and Secchi Disc readings were also taken. A maximum population density was observed for C. hirundinella in April while P. cinctum achieved its maximum population density in March. Oxygen, nitrate, phosphate, carbon dioxide, pH, and turbidity were determined to be non-limiting and statistically insignificant.
4034122|Fawn Pond, a part of the Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area (Ohio), originated as a waterfilled gravel pit. The study area, consisting of Fawn Pond and surrounding land, contains three taxonomic subdivisions, 72 families, 193 genera, and 310 species and hybrids of vascular plants. Forty-eight species and hybrids represent additions to a recently produced flora of the Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area. Three species augment a flora of the glaciated Allegheny Plateau region of Ohio. One additional species represents a state record for Ohio. The total number of species is striking, because of the long history of severe, human-induced disturbances of the area.
4032997|This paper is the result of a study on the woody plants known to occur in the Francis Marion National Forest. Two hundred thirty-two taxa of woody plants are reported, together with a statement concerning the habitat of each. A brief description of the major habitats in the forest is included.
4034234|The Rappahannock River is a major river system across north central Virginia prior to entering the Chesapeake Bay. In contrast, the Pamunkey River is smaller in size and joins the Mattoponi River to form the York River, which flows parallel to the Rappahannock before it also flows into Chesapeake Bay. A unique mixing area for both flora and environmental conditions exists in the tidal freshwater-oligohaline region of both rivers. This is a dynamic mixing section where freshwater and estuarine species are subject to the interaction of river flow and daily tidal rhythms. The phytoplankton composition in this region of the two rivers was identified over a 13.5-year period (July 1986-December 1999). The results indicated freshwater and estuarine populations forming a diverse assemblage of 268 taxa, with diatoms, chlorophytes, and cyanoprokaryotes the dominant flora. Phytoplankton in this region were predominantly freshwater taxa (e.g., >70%), with a diverse diatom assemblage representing >90% of the estuarine flora at these sites.
41058089|Both native and invasive species that form forest understory layers affect tree seedling establishment worldwide. We compared the density and survival of canopy tree seedlings under and outside patches of the native shrub, Asimina triloba (L.) Dunal (Annonaceae) (pawpaw). We also conducted a manipulative experiment to determine whether above ground or below ground competition was more important in seedling growth and survival. Above ground competition was manipulated by tying back pawpaw stems and below ground competition by trenching the perimeter of the study plots. Overstory density (measured by a canopy densiometer) was greater under pawpaw than outside pawpaw. Tree seedling density was approximately three times greater outside pawpaw than under pawpaw over the range of sites. Seedlings under pawpaw were both younger and shorter than those outside of pawpaw. Survival varied by species. Acer saccharum seedlings were about one and a half times more likely to survive outside pawpaw than under pawpaw. Prunus sertina seedlings were about three times more likely to survive outside pawpaw than under pawpaw. In contrast, pawpaw did not affect the survival of Fraxinus spp. seedlings. The combination of above ground and below ground factors was more important in the survival and growth (measured by biomass) of planted A. saccharum seedlings under pawpaw than either above ground or below ground factors alone. Given that conditions such as elevated deer herbivory and tree diseases may provide opportunities for pawpaw to expand, continued attention to the pawpaw understory is warranted.
4033948|Chinese tallow (Sapium sebiferum Roxb.), a naturalized exotic from eastern Asia, forms very dense monotypic stands and has become a serious competitor to native species in stream swamps along the United States Gulf coast. In this experiment, we examined the competitive relationships among seedlings of baldcypress [Taxodium distichum (L.) Rich.], water tupelo (Nyssa aquatica L.), and Chinese tallow in full sun environments under flooded and drained conditions for 2 years. In the drained/mixed stand treatment, leaf biomass of Chinese tallow was 2 and 4 times greater in year 1, and 11 and 27 times greater in year 2 than water tupelo and baldcypress, respectively. Stem biomass was also 1.5 and 10 times greater in year 1 and 8, and 62 times greater in year 2 than water tupelo and baldcypress, respectively. Growth of Chinese tallow under flooded conditions, however, was significantly reduced. Baldcypress and water tupelo both grew better under flooded conditions, with water tupelo growing better than baldcypress. Indications are that Chinese tallow grows faster than native wetland species under moist, well-drained conditions, but flooding significantly reduced growth of the species.
4033541|Leaves of 56 species from two north-west Georgia cedar glades were sectioned and stained with
4033600|A floristic study of the Bear Creek Natural Area, Stewart County, Tennessee documented the presence of 733 (610 native and 123 introduced) vascular species representing 388 genera and 111 families. The four largest families, Asteraceae (85 species), Poaceae (83), Cyperaceae (44), and Fabaceae (39) account for 34 percent of the species. Eleven taxa are considered elements of concern, including two under federal review. The area is within the Tennessee Valley Authority's (TVA) Land Between the Lakes, is a registered Tennessee natural area, a designated TVA forest study and natural area, and has been recommended for designation as a National Natural Landmark. In addition to habitat diversity and the large flora with numerous rare elements, the site is significant because it represents the rare and mostly decimated western form of the mixed mesophytic forest.
4032505|The distribution, frequency, and some ecological details of the six species of Araliaceae in Ohio are given.
4033099|Phytoplankton populations were studied for a one year period in 1982-83 at stations upstream and downstream from Charleston, West Virginia. Identification and counts were made to determine dominant taxa and seasonal succession among classes of algae. Comparison with past surveys show decreased phytoplankton concentrations and increased diversity which suggests water quality improvement. A number of natural and cultural factors also may be responsible for major differences between stations in cell density, composition, and patterns of seasonal succession.
4033182|Floristic data and county dot distribution maps are presented for six species and one interspecific hybrid of the Apocynaceae found as native, naturalized, or adventive taxa in the Ohio flora. Included is the first report of Vinca major for the state.
40793286|Prior to European settlement, the portion of north and central Florida corresponding to the historic range of longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) was dominated by firedependent, herbaceous and open woodland plant communities. Economic development coupled with fire suppression lead to a drastic decline in the abundance, contiguity and integrity of these natural communities. We present a classification and description of natural, fire-maintained pineland communities of this highly fragmented landscape. Plot locations were stratified by region and topographic position to assure comprehensive coverage of compositional variation associated with local and regional gradients of environmental and geographic variation. Our focus was description of groundcover vegetation, which harbors most of the plant diversity. We censused all plant species within 293 vegetation plots of 1,000 m. We then developed a comprehensive vegetation classification based on floristic similarity using K-means cluster analysis and ordination. Sixteen distinct '' communities" are recognized, corresponding to plant assemblages that we deem readily discernable in the field. These communities were grouped into five ecological "series" corresponding to those of Peet: Xeric Sandy Uplands (2 communities), Subxeric Sandy Uplands (2 communities), Silty Uplands (2 communities); Flatwoods (3 communities); and Wetlands (7 communities). For each community we summarize species diversity, woody plant structure, diagnostic (indicator) species, and environmental and physiographic characteristics. Floristic variation within and between series is described relative to geographic variation and edaphic characteristics.
4032963|A survey of the vascular plants of The Francis Beidler Forest, A National Audubon Sanctuary in Four Holes Swamp in the Coastal Plain of South Carolina, is presented. Included are a description of major plant communities including an original growth bald cypress-tupelo gum swamp forest community, an annotated checklist of the vascular plants that includes ecological notes on rare and endangered species, and an historical account of Four Holes Swamp and Beidler Forest. Three hundred twelve species from 218 genera and 99 families are reported.
4033276|Eight spruce stands located at elevations above 3280 feet (1000 m) in the Allegheny Mountains of central West Virginia were sampled to obtain data on the structure and composition of all strata of vegetation. A quantitative description of these communities is provided and a comparison is made with the spruce-fir forests of more northern and southern portions of the Appalachian system.
4032817|The woody vegetation of a virgin forest on the floodplain of the Neches River in east Texas was analyzed. A total of 48 woody species was recorded, of which 47 occurred on ridge areas and 35 on low flats. Significant quantitative differences in vegetation existed on these sites even though elevational variation was generally less than 2 m. Ridge areas were dominated by American hornbeam (Carpinus caroliniana Walt.) and water oak (Quercus nigra L.), whereas Carolina ash (Fraxinus caroliniana Walt.) and silver bells (Styrax americana Lam.) were the most prevalent species on flats. The overall principal woody species were American hornbeam, Carolina ash, water oak, red maple (Acer rubrum L.), possumhaw (Ilex decidua Walt.), and silver bells. The successional status of this forest was discussed and we concluded that it was a topographic climax.
4032500|Solidago albopilosa Braun is a poorly known, highly endemic species of goldenrod known only from the basal Pottsville formation in Powell and Manifee Counties, Kentucky. This investigation includes a detailed analysis of thirteen quantitative and several qualitative characters. The morphological study forms the basis for a complete description of the species and subsequent analysis of four selected populations. The population analysis indicates significant differences in the morphology of the plants from one site to another. In considering the origin of S. albopilosa it is noted that one population shows apparent introgression with S. flexicaulis. A few selected individuals of S. albopilosa show pollen viability reductions suggestive of hybridization activity in these populations.
4032586|A preliminary taxonomic conspectus of Heterotheca (including Chrysopsis) section Pityopsis recognizing the six species: H. graminifolia, H. aspera, H. oligantha, H. ruthii, H. flexuosa, and H. falcata.
4033501|Lepuropetalon spathulatum (Saxifragaceae), a minute and little-known winter annual native to the southeastern and south-central United States, has been found within the state of Florida. This discovery extends the range into all the southeastern coastal plain states. The species, hitherto assumed rare, is now known from 130 counties, from southeastern North Carolina to eastern Texas and southeastern Oklahoma. A map is provided. Apparent frequency is much higher in the south-central states where collectors have been active. The suggestion is made that examination of suitable habitats in the early spring would disclose a greater abundance of this plant than has previously been suspected.
4032819|The genera of Vernonieae occurring in Louisiana include Stokesia, Elephantopus and Vernonia; the former is monotypic and the latter two are each represented by four species. Louisiana species of Vernonia appear to hybridize, occasionally producing swarms that are taxonomically difficult. Keys to the genera and species of Vernonieae in Louisiana are provided. Species of Stokesia and Vernonia are illustrated. Parish collection records for all taxa and for putative hybrids of Vernonia are mapped.
4033793|The bryophytes of four habitats in South Carolina characterized by outcroppings of different rock types (i.e., gabbro, soapstone, granite, or diabase) were collected and identified. Slope, aspect, relative canopy closure, and dominant tree, shrub, and herb species were noted at each site. Soil pH and relative hardness of rock were also measured. Bryophyte species composition was compared among the four habitats in general, and site to site comparisons were made within comparable microhabitats (i.e., species on rock, trees, soil, or decaying wood). Although habitat and site differences were found, there appeared to be no obvious environmental factor to account for relationships between and distribution of species compositions.
4033320|Vegetation and flora of the Pilot serpentine area were studied in Cecil County, Maryland. The ground layer of the 0.5 ha opening comprises 44 vascular plant taxa, including Aster depauperatus, Sporobolus heterolepis, and Talinum teretifolium which are rare in Maryland. Sporobolus heterolepis and Schizachyrium scoparium were community dominants, comprising 56% of total cover. Sporobolus heterolepis was most abundant in the perimeter of the opening which was in Pinus virginiana woodland and late savanna stages of succession. The non-perimeter region was mostly in grassland and early savanna stages. Drought stress was incidentally identified as an important factor inhibiting Pinus virginiana succession.
4033747|Data in Bessey C. Picklesimer's (1927) unpublished M.A. thesis on the vegetation analysis of a cedar glade in the Central Basin of Tennessee are put into a format that will allow them to be used by ecologists, and the results are compared with those of other quantitative studies on cedar glade plant communities in the Basin. Picklesimer's study is significant because it contains the most comprehensive data set available documenting the importance of the two shallow-soil dominants Arenaria patula and Sedum pulchellum in the vegetation of cedar glades in the Central Basin. The results of her vegetation analysis are in general agreement with those of previous workers in that: (1) the C
4033236|Thuja occidentalis L. and other rare Kentucky vascular plants were recently collected from the Big South Fork of the Cumberland River in McCreary County, Kentucky.
4033544|Fimbristylis perpusilla Harper, a rare southeastern United States sedge, is reported from Franklin County, Tennessee. This collection represents a Coastal Plain disjunction of ca. 240 miles and is the first report from the Cumberland Plateau. Recent collection data indicate that the taxon is more widespread and more common than previously thought. Details of its seed biology and mechanisms of dispersal and establishment are unknown.
4034103|The endangered, semi-aquatic plant Ptilimnium nodosum had historically been known in the Potomac River drainage only from one site on Sleepy Creek, West Virginia and from the Potomac River, Maryland, where it was thought to have been extirpated. After extensive surveys in the Potomac drainage, the species has been found to occur along short to extensive stretches of the Cacapon River and Sleepy Creek in West Virginia and along Fifteen Mile Creek and Sideling Hill Creek, Maryland. It is also extant, in very small numbers, along the mainstem Potomac River.
4033921|Two disjunct populations of Pellaea wrightiana Hooker occur in North Carolina. The initial 1956 discovery substantiated its taxonomic position as an allotetraploid between P. longimucronata Hooker (=P. truncata Goodding) and diploid P. ternifolia (Cav.) Link. An allozyme survey revealed no genetic variation either between or within the two North Carolina populations suggesting a single dispersal event from the southwestern United States primary range. A third eastern population of P. wrightiana was recently reported from Pickens County, South Carolina. Morphological comparisons of pinnae from Pickens County material to P. wrightiana and P. ternifolia from both North Carolina and the southwestern United States indicate that the Pickens County entity is actually P. ternifolia ssp. arizonica Windham, and a new record for eastern North America. This brings the number of Pellaea species occurring in the Carolinas to three. A key for their identification is provided.
4032589|Study of diagnostic characters on herbarium specimens shows that approximately half of the Ohio specimens of the Stachys hispida-S. tenuifolia complex are easily assignable to one species or the other. The remainder, with various combinations of characters and/or intermediate characters, are referrable to a species only with difficulty or are impossible to place in either. Ohio specimens are best treated as a single variable species.
4033311|The vascular flora was surveyed during each month from April to October on Wallops Island (an Atlantic barrier island) and Wallops Mainland (the adjoining neck of mainland) in Accomack County, Virginia. The flora contains 488 species in 279 genera and 94 families. The largest families are Poaceae, Asteraceae, Cyperaceae, Fabaceae, Rosaceae, and Juncaceae. The largest genera are Carex, Juncus, and Cyperus. Ninetythree species and three hybrids are county records. They include three first reports for the Delmarva Peninsula: Carex hyalinolepis X C. lacustris, Vulpia bromoides, and Plantago sparsiflora. These taxa, plus Scirpus X contortus, are also records for Virginia. Plantago maritima is proposed for the state list of rare species. The flora is comparatively rich in monocotyledons, annuals, and naturalized species. Most of the principal native species also occur on other barrier islands of Virginia.
4033744|Foliage from Rhododendron periclymenoides populations were used in a cafeteria style host-choice experiment with adult leaf beetles of Pyrrhalta rufosanguinea to determine if intrapopulational variation in 14 morphological and chemical characters could be correlated with differential herbivory. An assessment of the interaction between leaf variables and palatability was made. Leaves with larger size, higher moisture content, and lower concentrations of the flavonoid quercetin 3-O-arabinoside increased the probability of attack by the leaf beetle. A PCA-regression model suggests that interactions among leaf variables are important in determining a feeding response.
4033271|John Ball (1818-1889) collected an Orobanche on Roan Mountain in September 1884 which is tentatively identified as Orobanche ramosa L., the first report from North Carolina. The specimen is in the herbarium of the Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh.
4033209|The age structures of four different plant communities (cedar, cypress, maple-gum and mixed hardwood) in the Great Dismal Swamp were determined from increment cores. The oldest stand was determined to be the cypress which also had the greatest standing crop biomass of the four communities. Red maple (Acer rubrum L.) was found to be an expanding population in the maple-gum, cypress and cedar stands, while bald cypress (Taxodium distichum (L.) Richard) and Atlantic white cedar (Chamaecyparis thyoides (L.) BSP) were determined to be declining in numbers in the cypress and cedar stands respectively. Linear correlations between age and relative cumulative frequency were determined and the median ecological longevity estimated for each species.
4032324|The plant communities of Great Falls National Park, Fairfax County, Virginia, are described. Special attention is drawn to the habitat diversity represented, and the rocky slope--bedrock terrace community, which is found nowhere else in the county, is emphasized. An annotated list of vascular flora, which has been compiled from collections made from September, 1970 to May, 1972, is included. One hundred thirteen families with 640 taxa on the species or variety level are represented. Many species heretofore not reported from the county are reported.
4033163|A disjunct stand of Andropogon hallii Hack. from Bureau County, Illinois is described. Based on sessile awn length, and length and number of rachis hairs, this population is morphologically distinct from local A. gerardii Vitman. The two species of Andropogon are somewhat separated ecologically. We believe A. hallii may be relic from the xerothermic period when the species may have been more abundant in the Midwest. Descriptions of locality, associated plants, soils and species characteristics are included and discussed.
4033348|The results of an investigation into the distribution of the needle palm, Rhapidophyllum hystrix (Pursh) H. Wendl. & Drude, are presented here. This distinctive palm occurs sporadically in the southeastern United States and ranges from southcentral Florida to southern South Carolina, central Georgia, Alabama, and central Mississippi. Of the possibly 107 counties from which it is known, approximately one-half consist of a single population. Population sizes vary considerably and range from a single individual (either consisting of a single axis or multiple axes) to well over 1,000 individuals. Possibly up to 46 counties containing the needle palm have been added since the most recent treatment of Rhapidophyllum (22 counties are based on sight records or from the literature and hence are not documented with herbarium specimens); seven of these new county records were recently discovered by the senior author.
4034327| Seven forest community types are described for a 2,100 ha study area in the lower Bluestone River Gorge in southern West Virginia. This is a remote, steeply sloped area, part of a large natural area that provides habitat to several plants not known elsewhere in the state. It is an example a topographic setting underrepresented in quantitative studies of forest vegetation in the region. Forest types were derived from cluster analysis of quantitative data on composition and structure of large tree (dbh  10 cm) strata obtained from 51 0.1 ha quadrats, the majority of which were included in a series of eleven transects that extended from the bottom of the gorge to a point near the rim. Multi-response permutation procedures verified the community classification. Mean topographic and soil characteristics for each community type were then compared using analysis of variance. The community types recognized conform to forest cover-types widely distributed throughout the region. Non-metric dimensional scaling indicates that topographic variables have a strong influence on the distribution of community types within the gorge. However, due to the presence of limestones and calcareous shales at midslope position, variation in soil nutrient quality tended to account for more of the variation in vegetative composition. Various species of Quercus were prominent overstory trees in six of seven community types. The continued dominance of Quercus spp. seems most likely on the more nutrient poor, west-southwest-facing sites at mid- to upper-slope positions. On more mesic, better quality growing sites, Acer saccharum and A. rubrum exhibit overwhelming importance in the understory and are likely to increase in importance. 
4033359|Distributional and habitat data are presented for sixteen taxa of vascular plants from the Appalachian Plateau and Ridge and Valley Provinces of the state of Maryland. Five of these taxa are reported for the first time from Maryland: Helianthus laevigatus, Juncus articulatus, Solidago curtisii, Viola rostrata X V. striata, and the Vittaria gametophyte. Five species currently are listed as rare or endangered in Maryland: Cyperus lancastriensis, Dryopteris campyloptera, Epilobium leptophyllum, Lemna trisulca, and Poa alsodes. Information is provided for four other significant indigenous taxa: Aconitum uncinatum, Carex debilis var. rudgei, Carex digitalis, and Solidago arguta var. harrisii. The occurrence of three non-indigenous species is discussed: Arthraxon hispidus, Microstegium vimineum, and Veronica chamaedrys. Suggestions are made for future revisions of Maryland's list of rare and endangered species.
4032728|A total of 47 woody species was found in a vegatation survey of a terrace forest in Clark County, Illinois. Two distinct vegetation zones (low and high terrace) occur on the woodlot, and their composition and ecological trends are discussed. Woody species of the low terrace average 140 stems per acre with a basal area of 125 square feet; it is dominated by Ohio buckeye, box-elder, hackberry, sycamore, silver maple, black walnut, and American elm, in order of Importance Value. The high terrace averages 126 stems per acre with a basal area of 113 square feet per acre, and is dominated by shellbark hickory, box-elder, white oak, white ash, red maple, and red elm.
27742889|Forest canopy and subcanopy data were collected from and compared among five disjunct bottomland hardwood forests in the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley, each with known occurrence of a population of the federally endangered shrub Lindera melissifolia. All study sites are cut-over forests, underlain by hydric soils, and have a seasonal high water table. Canopy and subcanopy species are similar among sites, but species differ in relative importance, and flood tolerant tree species exceed that of flood intolerant species. Distribution of L. melissifolia colonies within each study site was not associated with mean tree density or d.b.h. Forest composition and structure at each study site reflect hydrologic regime, topography, historical disturbance, and an absence of recent disturbance. Results of this study provide a quantitative description of bottomland forests that currently sustain L. melissifolia populations. This information may be utilized for development of forest management plans aimed at ensuring continued sustainability of existing L. melissifolia populations and assessing other bottomland hardwood forests for potential reintroduction of this endangered species.
41301494|There has been question whether the taxon known as Yucca filamentosa (Agavaceae) is to be distinguished from the taxon known as Yucca flaccida. Much of the uncertainty lay in the absence of sure knowledge of the forms intended by their original authors. A neotype of Y. flaccida from Florida was selected in 2006. Here, the type locality in Virginia of Y. filamentosa is revisited and an epitype is selected. The two taxa, as represented by plants from these two type localities, differ markedly in a number of characteristics. It is suggested that Y. filamentosa and Y. flaccida be retained at specific rank.
4033924|A survey of the vascular flora of the Ech Lake region was conducted from February 1997 through December 1998. Ech Lake is located in the west-central section of Dale County, Alabama, on the Fort Rucker Army Installation. The study site comprised 162 ha of mostly forested, gently sloping land. A 2.0 ha lake is centrally located in the study area. Nine major habitats, including mesic hardwoods, xeric hardwoods, mixed pine-hardwoods, pine plantation, fields, floodplains, shorelines, grassy areas, and roadsides were found to occur at the study site. Collections were made twice weekly from April through November and once each week from December through March. The 507 species and varieties representing 289 genera and 102 families found to occur at the Ech Lake study area are presented in an annotated checklist.
4033616|A 16.1 hectare watershed at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory in southwestern North Carolina was clearcut in 1939-1940 and again in 1962. No timber was removed during the clearcuts. Present vegetation composition (woody and herbaceous species), and tree species distributions in relation to site characteristics were of primary interest. Liriodendron tulipifera had the highest basal area and Importance Value (IV) of all tree species; Quercus prinus had the highest density, Acer rubrum the highest frequency. Stand basal area in 1984, 21 years after the second clearcut was
4033133|Tree diameter growth rates were measured in the Great Dismal Swamp, Virginia using vernier tree bands. Measurements were made in cypress, cedar, maple-gum, and mixed hardwood communities. Most growth occurred between mid-April and early July. Some species differences were noted but no statistically significant site differences were found. The high variability in tree growth rates in the Dismal Swamp may be a result of the high degree of microtopographic variation within and among sites which could mask possible differences caused by varied hydroperiod. Stand basal area growth was greatest on the cedar site (
4034073|This paper presents a list of 41 Carex taxa vouchered for the Buffalo National River in north central Arkansas, a list of 23 Carex taxa considered as possible additions, and briefly discusses potential for undescribed taxa. The total (64) compares with 59 taxa known for Baxter County, Arkansas, an adjoining county the author collected extensively, and with 122 Carex taxa listed for Arkansas.
24619732|We examined canopy gaps on the 3,100 ha West Virginia University Research Forest (WVURF), a 7080 year-old, second-growth, Appalachian hardwood forest near Morgantown, West Virginia. The objectives of this study were: (a) to describe gap characteristics (size, age, fraction, regeneration and gap-makers) of the forest as a whole, and (b) to assess whether gap characteristics varied by slope position (cove, midslope, ridge), slope aspect (NE, NW, SE, SW), and forest type (cove hardwood, mesic oak, xeric oak). Sixty transects were established, with a total length of 22,043 m. Eighty canopy gaps were identified. Average gap size was 98.6 (134.17) m2. Gap age ranged from 229 years old with a mean age of 16.4 (6.3) yrs. Overall, 2.7% of the forest was composed of gaps. There were no differences in gap size by aspect or slope position. Cove hardwoods had larger gap sizes than mesic and xeric oak forests. There were no differences in gap age based on slope position, aspect, or forest type. Gap fraction did not differ by slope position, but gap fraction was greatest on southeast slopes and in cove hardwoods. Because the WVURF is a young forest in the stem exclusion and early understory initiation stages of development, tree mortality is primarily driven by stand-level competition. Thus, gaps are smaller compared to old-growth forests in the region, where overstory mortality is largely density independent. Almost two-thirds of gap-makers were Quercus spp., while Quercus spp. and Prunus serotina were the most important regeneration within gaps.
4034328|A taxonomic study of collections previously identified as Isoetes melanospora, I. piedmontana, and I. tegetiformans was undertaken emphasizing vegetative characters. The taxonomic position of I. piedmontana was also assessed using cytogeography and a cursory examination of the allozyme locus TPI-2. Isoetes melanospora, I. piedmontana, and I. tegetiformans can be sufficiently distinguished using characters derived from leaves and corms. Isoetes piedmontana occurs as diploid, triploid, and allotetraploid entities. Diploids in the western and eastern parts of the geographic range are genetically distinct. Allotetraploids in eastern Alabama are composed of different genomes than those in North Carolina. Isoetes piedmontana is currently interpreted as an assemblage of morphologically indistinguishable species and is undergoing further taxonomic investigation. The typification of I. piedmontana is clarified, and a key with descriptions of the granite outcrop Isoetes species of the southeastern United States Piedmont is provided.
4034267|The microhabitat of the federally endangered Dalea foliosa was compared to that of its cedar glade congener D. gattingeri, as well as to adjoining habitat absent of both species but appearing suitable for D. foliosa (control site). Compared to D. gattingeri sites, D. foliosa sites had lower coverage of gravel, higher coverage of herbaceous vegetation, and deeper soils. Both species were present on sites with similar leaf litter and moss coverages. Nostoc commune was absent from D. foliosa populations, but present in most D. gattingeri populations. In terms of soil depth and coverage variables, control sites differed little from D. foliosa sites. Coverage of D. foliosa was negatively correlated with that of associated (neighboring) species. No appreciable differences in soil fertility were noted among sites. New populations of D. foliosa should be established in areas relatively free of competition, exposed to full or partial sunlight, with soil depths >4 cm, and near washes.
4034133|Two new subspecies of Alnus maritima, A. maritima subsp. oklahomensis from south-central Oklahoma and A. maritima subsp. georgiensis from northwestern Georgia, are described based on differences in growth habit, leaf and fruit morphology, and geographic isolation. The two new subspecies, along with subsp. maritima found in Maryland and Delaware on the Delmarva Peninsula, formalize the infraspecific classification of three widely disjunct populations of A. maritima, which have undergone considerable divergence since their isolation. Numerical analyses of 23 characters of mature trees from natural sites and 22 characters of seedlings grown in a uniform environment revealed many differences and allowed the determination of relative taxonomic distances between subspecies. Our examination of morphology, growth habit, distribution, and habitat of the three subspecies also rendered a plausible explanation for the peculiar disjunct occurrence of A. maritima.
41819474|Juglans nigra (black walnut) is widely distributed throughout the US eastern forest, with high concentrations occurring in Missouri and the Ohio and Tennessee River basins. It is an extremely desirable tree for wildlife forage and timber production on forest land, and for shade, aesthetics, and wildlife forage in urban areas. Current (2009-2010) estimates from US Forest Service Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) data indicated that there were 306 million live black walnut trees in the eastern United States with a live volume totaling 112.76 million cubic meters (m). This resource is currently threatened by the newly discovered presence of thousand cankers disease (TCD) in Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and Virginia. Thousand cankers disease may have been present in these areas for at least 10 years prior to discovery; however, no evidence of TCD in the forest at large was apparent in the crown condition and mortality data collected by FIA between 2000 and 2010. During this time period black walnut crown conditions were within the range of what is typically considered normal and healthy for hardwood trees and dead black walnut accounted for < 5% of the total number of black walnut trees in 82% of the counties where black walnut occurred. Lack of evidence of TCD in our study could be due to its actual absence or to an inability of the inventory and monitoring system to detect its presence.
4033684|The integrity of many natural environments in the southeastern United States is being threatened by invasive plants. Biological control offers a selective method for the control of these weeds because the insects and diseases it employs effect few if any nontarget species. This contribution evaluates the suitability of the biological control method for 19 invasive weeds. Criteria that can help predict the number of natural enemies associated with a weed are: (1) size of the plant's native range, (2) commonness of the plant in its native range, (3) number of congeneric species in the world, (4) and the natural enemies already known. Criteria that help predict conflicts with valued plants, which can limit the biological control approach, are the number of congeneric species and important economic relatives the United States. The relative seriousness of the weed (not examined here), and the degree to which practical controls exist, determine the need for biological control.
20433937|The 590 ha Sand Prairie-Scrub Oak Nature Preserve in Mason County, Illinois contains remnant dry sand prairies, sand savanna, sand forest, and successional fields. Purchased in 1969, the abandoned agricultural fields have been allowed to re-vegetate naturally. The vegetation of a mature dry sand prairie was compared with two successional fields, one 60- and one 30-years-old. The mature dry sand prairie was dominated by Schizachyrium scoparium (little bluestem), Dichanthelium villosissimum (hairy panic grass), Tephrosia virginiana (goat's-rue), Ambrosia psilostachya (western ragweed), and Opuntia humifusa (common pricklypear). Eragrostis trichodes (sand love grass) dominated the 60-year-old successional fields. The 30-year-old successional field was dominated by Eragrostis trichodes, Strophostyles helvula (wild bean), and Monarda punctata (horsemint). A total of 393 vascular plant species were documented for the preserve.
41301492|A good working knowledge of seed germination requirements is important for plant establishment for restoration and experimentation, particularly in wild plant species. Some seeds require a period of after-ripening and cold stratification before germination will occur. In this study we examined the effects of after-ripening and stratification time on seeds from three disjunct populations of Arabidopsis lyrata ssp. lyrata, from serpentine and limestone sand substrates of the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States. Differences among populations were evaluated through seed germination percentage and rate. Overall germination percentage and rate significantly varied by population, with seeds from the two serpentine populations having a lower germination percentage and rate than seeds from the limestone sand population. After-ripening time also significantly affected germination percentage and rate, with both measurements generally being the highest in 4 and 8 month-old seeds. Stratification did not generally alter germination percentage compared to the untreated control. However, stratification appeared to have the greatest effect on the germination rate of seeds that had after-ripened for 4 months, but the number of days of stratification required was not consistent across populations or across years. The variation observed among the populations of A. lyrata ssp. lyrata tested is a starting point for understanding how these differences developed and how they contribute to the success of each population in its native environment.
4034146|The northernmost record of Rhizophora mangle (red mangrove), recently vouchered from Fort Matanzas National Monument in St. Johns County, Florida, is discussed in reference to the ecology, morphology, and preservation of the species.
40792818|Miscanthus sinensis, a C grass, is an emerging invasive species in open and edge habitats throughout the eastern United States. To assess its ability to invade forest understories, we examined photosynthetic responses of Miscanthus sinensis grown under natural light gradients (5% to 100% full sunlight). Although there was a slight reduction in reproductive output under lower light, Miscanthus sinensis was able to maintain high rates of photosynthesis and positive carbon gain along the entire light gradient. Positive carbon gain at low light was likely due to an increased quantum yield. Photosynthetic induction for all plants was rapid, while stomatal opening during induction was slower. Rates of induction loss were slower than induction gain, and were slower than another major C invasive exotic grass, Microstegium vimineum that is shade tolerant. During transient high light events, the combination of rapid induction, maintenance of induction state between sunflecks, and high photosynthetic rates, may allow for greater carbon gain than native understory plants. Miscanthus sinensis possesses some characteristics that allow it to persist in forest understories and to rapidly utilize increases in light availability, rendering it a potentially important invader of southeastern United States forest understories.
4032681|The morphology and distribution of Achnanthes subrostrata var. appalachiana, an abundantly occurring diatom new to science was investigated. This diatom appears to be indigenous to mountainous streams and has been found in South Carolina, North Carolina, and Tennessee.
4033998|This 20-year study reports on changes in the structure and composition of an old-growth forest after a windstorm in 1974. Tree density, basal area, and species composition were measured at Dinsmore's Woods, an old-growth maple-dominated forest in Boone County, Kentucky in 1973, in 1974 following a tornado and again in 1985 and 1994 to assess recovery patterns. Tree density and total basal area declined from 1974 to 1985 but increased in 1994. Species composition of the canopy was unchanged, with Acer saccharum as the dominant species and a subdominant stratum composed of Fraxinus americana, Ulmus rubra, Celtis occidentalis, and Quercus spp. However, Acer saccharum has increased in dominance relative to subdominants, except Quercus spp. The dominance of Acer saccharum was seen at all strata (canopy, saplings, and seedlings). The disturbance appears to have increased the dominance of Acer saccharum. This study indicates that this catastrophic windstorm decreased species diversity in this forest community.
4033390|Twenty vascular plant species are here recorded for Arkansas. Several are cited as new to that state, while others are of interest for the extension of their known geographical range.
4033100|Carex manhartii, a new species in Sect. Laxiflorae, is described from the Southern Appalachian Region of Georgia and North Carolina. Morphology and ecology are discussed in comparison to related taxa in the Laxiflorae.
4032513|Amaranthus albus, A. powellii, Asclepias syriaca, Carex picta, Chenopodium pumilio, Conringia orientalis, Coreopsis helianthoides, C. stenophylla, Cornus alternifolia, Cyperus engelmannii, Eriochloa gracilis, Fatoua villosa, Habenaria lacera, Heliotropium procumbens, Hypochoeris elata, Juncus gymnocarpus, Lindernia crustacea, Lupinus perennis, Nicotiana longiflora, Nothoscordum fragrans, Paspalum monostachyum, Petunia parviflora, Phyllanthus fraternus, Potamogeton berchtoldii var. acuminatus, Ranunculus arvensis, Trianthema portulacastrum, Typha domingensis, Vulpia megalura, and Xyris scabrifolia are reported as additions to the vascular flora of Mississippi.
41819478|In order to provide vegetation managers with information on roadside habitats in West Virginia, a statewide roadside vegetation study was conducted in 2000. The vegetation along nearly 1,500 km of four-lane highways was sampled in 339 randomly selected 20 m wide strip plots. An index of occurrence class (IOC) for each species was calculated using the product of the percent frequency of occurrence and relative abundance. A total of 467 species were documented, 325 of which were native. Seven families accounted for more than 50% of all species. When ranked on the basis of total IOC values, 15 of the top 25 species were introduced. Mean IOC values for introduced species (6.0) were significantly greater than native species (4.3, p = 0.0013). We propose that despite initial variability of landform, parent material, forest cover types, and climate, the relative similarity of species composition along the highways we sampled was the result of the physical and biological disturbances associated with initial construction (cuts and fills), and postconstruction seeding and vegetation management efforts.
4033376|In Washington County, Virginia, a swamp containing Thuja occidentalis L., and several rare vascular species has been found. Species rare for Virginia include: Rhynchospora capillacea Torrey, Juncus inflexus L. and Juncus articulatus L., Parnassia grandifolia DC., Desmodium canadense (L.) DC., and Solidago patula Willd. There are seven widely disjunct species, five reported new for southwestern Virginia. New to southwestern Virginia are Cypripedium reginae Walter, Rhamnus alnifolia L'Heritier, Pogonia ophioglossoides (L.) Ker., Erianthus giganteus (Walter) Muhl., and Carex howei Mack. The other disjunct species are Carex retroflexa Willd. and Calopogon tuberosus (L.) BSP. Physiography and floristics of the site are discussed.
4033836|Fraxinus tomentosa has until recently been considered a very rare component of Ohio's swamp forest communities. Until 1992 only four populations were known in Ohio, all in the extreme southwest corner of the state. Intensive fieldwork in 1992 focusing on locating additional F. tomentosa populations resulted in finding 28 new sites in 11 counties. These populations were scattered throughout the glaciated till plains and the lake plain of Lake Erie, revealing a much wider distribution in Ohio than was previously suspected. As a consequence of this survey F. tomentosa was located for the first time in Michigan and Pennsylvania.
4033850|Aster chlorolepis Burgess in Small, a member of Aster section Biotia DC. ex Torrey and Gray, has always been considered to be closely related to A. divaricatus, but its taxonomic status has been disputed. To resolve the controversy, over 4000 specimens belonging to the A. chlorolepis-A. divaricatus complex were identified by comparing them to the type specimens of each taxon. Disjoint principal component analysis (DPCA) of morphological data from identified specimens, the first published chromosome counts for A. chlorolepis, and the geographic ranges of both taxa support the segregation of A. chlorolepis from A. divaricatus at species rank. In addition, DPCA allowed identification of 70% of the specimens that could not be identified positively by the above method. Furthermore, the data suggests that A. chlorolepis arose as an autotetraploid derivative of A. divaricatus. Aster chlorolepis may represent, therefore, the long-missing ploidy link between the diploid species and the hexaploid and octoploid species in Aster section Biotia. A range map of and a taxonomic key to A. chlorolepis and A. divaricatus are presented.
4032343|Coal smoke and resulting fly ash deposit on the soil surface affected the productivity of a northern West Virginia slope supporting a white oak stand. Coal-burning locomotives hauling cars up a steep railroad grade at the base of the slope were the source of the smoke. The ash depth exceeded one foot on the lower slope, near the railroad tracks, and decreased with distance up the slope. Site index was only 30 on the lower slope and gradually increased to 42 at the top, a reversal of the normal situation. A pronounced annual ring pattern occurred in the white oaks which was caused by the smoke. The annual smoke pollution, as measured by coal tonnage hauled past the area, showed a strong negative relationship with ring width. A narrow annual ring was formed when smoke emission was heavy, and vice versa. The relative importance of fly ash depth and smoke in depressing growth could not be assessed.
41301586|Magnolia virginiana, the type species of genus Magnolia, is a native American species belonging to section Magnolia. To better understand intraspecific taxonomy of Magnolia virginiana, we conducted molecular phylogenetic analysis based on sequences of cpDNA. Fresh leaves were collected from 28 populations (a total of 133 individuals) covering the entire distribution of the species, including the recently discovered Cuban population, and sequences of seven non-coding regions of the cpDNA were determined (ca. 5,000 bp). Based on nucleotide substitutions, ten haplotypes were recognized in M. virginiana. Phylogenetic analysis of the data matrix clearly indicated that populations of M. virginiana were divided into two major groupsone in the north and one across the southwhich are essentially concordant with the morphological classification. Five nucleotide substitutions were found between them. Within the southern group, one common haplotype widely distributed, and populations of Texas (and adjacent areas) and western Tennessee showed a unique haplotype with an additional substitution(s), respectively. Less common haplotypes were found in Florida. The haplotype of the Cuban population was the same as the common haplotype of the southern group.
4033709|An inventory was completed of the woody vegetation of a post oak flatwoods near Lake Sara, Effingham County, Illinois. This 3 ha forest, located in the Southern Till Plain Natural Division of Illinois, has a stand composition of 280.3 stems/ha (above 10 cm dbh) and a basal area of 19.5 sq m/ha. Of 12 woody species present, post oak is the leading dominant accounting for more than 50% of the importance value (IV of 104.8). Black oak ranks second in IV, followed by blackjack oak, white oak, shingle oak, and three hickory species. Tree seedlings average 25,209 stems/ha, but few saplings are present (41 stems/ha), probably the result of yearly fires.
4032799|Revised distributional records are presented for the ten counties surrounding Highlands, N. C. and include 48 county records and 3 state records. The state records, all of which are very rare, included the species Botrychium matricariaefolium A. Br. and the two hybrids, Dryopteris X neo-wherryi Wagner and D. goldiana X intermedia. The two varieties of Pteridium aquilinum (L.) Kuhn, vars. latiusculum (Desv.) Underw. ex Heller and pseudocaudatum (Clute) Heller, occur intermingled on the same road shoulder yet remain morphologically distinct, providing an excellent opportunity for studies of their isolating mechanisms. Woodwardia virginica (L.) Smith was noted to occur as a single colony covering an area 45 m long and 26 m wide at the widest point. This colony remained sterile for five years until disturbed by a beaver colony and the proportion of the colony which was disturbed suddenly became fertile. These observations provide additional opportunity for field and associated laboratory studies of the biology of pteridophytes.
4034318|We examine the decline of oaks (Quercus spp.) in eastern forests and the concomitant increase in red maple (Acer rubrum) abundance using data collected over 75 years near Durham, North Carolina. Oaks declined in abundance on all hardwood-dominated sites, while early-successional pine stands showed a slight increase in oak abundance. Red maple has increased in density 6-fold over the last 75 years in all stands. Diameter distribution data from mapped stands suggest that oak decline results from a lack of recruitment. An analysis of environmental characteristics influencing the rate of increase in red maple density shows that the rate is slowest on sites with wet, sandy, high pH soils. Oak decline occurs faster on sites with higher initial oak abundance, and appears unrelated to changes in red maple abundance. Overall, the rate of transition from oak to red maple dominance is influence by both local site and landscape characteristics.
4033349|Floristically, the Yazoo-Mississippi Delta region is one of the poorest known areas in Mississippi. Recent field studies have yielded several state records, numerous Yazoo-Mississippi Delta region records, and other noteworthy collections that are reported herein. The flora of the rare ridge bottom forest is reported on, and certain species that are restricted to ridge sites and are rare in the Delta region are also discussed.
20433889|We compared seed mass, seed morphology, and long-term germination phenology of three monocarpic (M) and three polycarpic (P) Apiaceae species of the herbaceous layer of the Eastern Deciduous Forest. Seeds (mericarps) of the six species differed considerably in mass, shape, and ornamentation. Mean seed masses were ranked Cryptotaenia canadensis (M) &lt; Thaspium barbinode (P) &lt; Sanicula canadensis (M) &lt; S. gregaria (P) &lt; Osmorhiza claytonii (P) &lt; S. trifoliata (M). Germination peaks occurred in the first or second spring following sowing. Germination of a few seeds was delayed until the sixth year. Regardless of seed mass or morphology, each species has the potential to form a (modified) Type III or (modified) Type IV persistent soil seed bank. Occurrence of a germination peak in the first or in the second year following seed maturity was related to time of dispersal in autumn and to type of seed dormancy.
4033217|Recent botanizing in Great Smoky Mountains National Park has added to our knowledge of the park's vascular flora. Twenty-eight noteworthy plants are discussed here, including two plants new to the flora of Tennessee: Juncus trifidus var. monanthos (Jacq.) Bluff. & Fing., and Milium effusum L. Additional records of rare North Carolina and Tennessee plants are cited. Eighteen additions to the park flora are among the plants discussed.
41301578|Arabidopsis lyrata ssp. lyrata is widespread but edaphically restricted, which suggests that the dispersal ability and level of genetic exchange among populations might be limited. We assessed levels of genetic diversity and population differentiation within and among six A. lyrata ssp. lyrata populations from along the eastern seaboard of the United States by examining variation at nine microsatellite loci among 233 individuals. These data were also evaluated to assess any relationship between geographic and genetic distance and correlation of genetic diversity with population size. Measures of genetic diversity across all 9 microsatellite loci were high in most populations. Genetic diversity, as measured by number of alleles, was generally higher in the Maryland and New York populations, as compared with the southern most sampled populations in Virginia. Genetic differentiation among regions was highly significant and large (F ST = 0.47). This was supported by several analyses, suggesting that there is little gene flow among the regions sampled. There was a strong positive correlation between geographic and genetic distance, which is indicative of the pattern of isolation-bydistance. Population size correlated with the number of alleles within populations, supporting population genetic theory that larger populations harbor greater genetic diversity. Wright's F ST and genetic structure analysis also provided evidence of genetic partitioning at small (< 100 m) geographic distances between two areas sampled within one locality. These results indicate that the largest proportion of variation was explained by within population differences and may have implications for the conservation of this widespread but fragmented taxon.
4033496|Using diagnostic plant species, an index was developed that is sensitive to site potential on the Savannah River Plant property within the upper coastal plain of South Carolina. Low index values indicate xeric, high upland flats and gentle slopes, while high index values represent mesic to hydric alluvial bottoms. A significant relationship was found between the vegetation index and loblolly pine site index. Vegetation index scores can provide useful resource interpretations for many disciplines.
4033463|Black alder, Alnus glutinosa, represented by 28 seed sources from various natural and planted stands, was studied for six years in the coastal plain of Maryland. Also included were one source of each, A. incana and A. cordata. Different populations of A. glutinosa ranged in survival from 58% to 100%, height from 3.4 m to 6.6 m, advance of flushing leaves (on April 23, 1984) from none to fully developed, infestation by the aphid, Prociphilus tesselatus, on 0% to 37% of trees, developing of female flowers during the 4th and 5th growing seasons on 0% to 92% of trees, and producing male flowers during the 5th season on 0% to 100% of trees. A. glutinosa included five populations that were 10% to 18% taller than average. The most noteworthy correlations in Alnus glutinosa were the earliness of leaf flush vs. the northern latitude (r=-0.59) and vs. the eastern longitude of the seed source (r=-0.62). Also correlated were the survival rates vs. one-year heights (r=0.54), the aphid infestation vs. altitude of the seed source (r=0.36), and early flower production vs. six-year height (r=0.35 to 0.54). Alnus cordata grew 11% taller than A. incana, and both these species were about average in comparison to A. glutinosa.
4033069|Equisetum X ferrissii Clute (Equisetaceae) is the sterile hybrid between E. hyemale L. var. affine (Engelm.) A. A. Eaton and E. laevigatum A. Br. A herbarium and field study of E. X ferrissii was undertaken to determine the range and abundance of this hybrid in Illinois. The hybrid occurs in a wide variety of habitats in the state but is most frequent in moist, open, disturbed habitats especially in sandy soils and along railroads. Equisetum X ferrissii is much more widespread and abundant than previously realized.
4033624|Forest regeneration was examined on abandoned channels along the Hatchie River in western Tennessee. Tree age and size data were used to reconstruct the development of the young forest stands and to predict future changes. Taxodium distichum and Salix nigra are among the first terrestrial species to colonize oxbow lakes after the channel cuts off. Salix lives a few decades. In contrast, Taxodium may dominate a site for several centuries. But, because of its low reproductive success in mature stands it will eventually be replaced by shade tolerant species, primarily Fraxinus pennsylvanica and Acer saccharinum. Therefore, the early colonizers rarely occur on older surfaces. Channel migration and the creation of new surfaces will maintain Taxodium and Salix in the lower bottomlands. However, these species will likely decline in some areas because of channelization. Maintaining straightened channels precludes the formation of oxbows. Therefore, the primary regeneration site for these species no longer exists.
4032769|This study is a systematic treatment of the tribe Cichorieae (Asteraceae), excepting the genera Hieracium and Prenanthes, in Virginia. Data were obtained from the literature, from examination of specimens from eleven herbaria, and from observations and collections made in the field. All counties in Virginia were visited during collecting trips in the spring and summer of 1971. Keys to genus and species, descriptions, and ecological data are presented for each of the twenty-six species of the Cichorieae treated.
4033247|A new naturally occurring fern hybrid between Cystopteris X tennesseensis and C. tenuis is described from plants collected in Fairfield County, Ohio. This new hybrid is interesting for three reasons. First, although most of the spores are aborted, some large unreduced spore mother cells are regularly produced and these apparently account for the hybrid's abundance at the site. Second, observations of the hybrid's chromosomes at early meiotic metaphase show approximately 42 bivalents and 84 univalents. This chromosome pairing behavior supports the morphological evidence that the C. tenuis parent is an autotetraploid. Third, this is the first sterile primary Cystopteris hybrid known from living plants.
4034235|This paper reports the results of an inventory of the vascular plants at the Red Slough and Grassy Slough Wildlife Management Areas in southeastern Oklahoma. A total of 426 taxa of vascular plants in 269 genera and 106 families was collected. The most species were collected from the families Asteraceae (53), Poaceae (42), Cyperaceae (31), and Fabaceae (27). Ninety-nine species were annuals or biennials, and 328 perennials. Ninety-three species of woody plants were present. Twenty-eight species not native to North America were collected representing 6.6% of the flora. Thirty species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were found. The first occurrence in Oklahoma of Anoda cristata, Malvaceae, is reported in this study.
41301507|A new species, Leitneria pilosa, and a new subspecies, L pilosa subsp. ozarkana, are described based on leaf morphology, ISSR polymorphisms, ITS sequence character, and geographical isolation. Our infrageneric assessment of populations of Leitneria showed that I. pilosa, which occurs as western disjunct populations in Missouri, Arkansas, and Texas, has undergone species-level divergence from plants of Leitneria floridana indigenous to Florida and Georgia. Leitneria pilosa differs from L. floridana in the presence of dense trichomes on both abaxial and adaxial leaf surfaces, while trichomes are sparse to absent on the leaf surfaces of I. floridana. Leaves of I. pilosa are smaller, about half the length, and have a lower length : width ratio than leaves of L. floridana. Within L. pilosa, subsp. ozarkana indigenous to Arkansas and Missouri differs from subsp. pilosa indigenous to Texas by its consistently larger, elliptic to slightly oblanceolate or obovate leaves with longer petioles. Leaves of I. pilosa subsp. pilosa are narrower and lanceolate. These new taxonomic designations are supported strongly by data from molecular analyses and by the geographic disjunction of the taxa.
4033362|Carex roanensis F. J. Hermann was rediscovered near Ernestville, Unicoi County, Tennessee. The habitat was a gneiss ledge overlain with rich soil on a steep hardwood slope near Fagus and Betula trees. Specimens (Churchill 85132; 85221) have been deposited at the National, Michigan State, University of Tennessee and Vanderbilt herbaria.
4034125| Vegetation species composition and richness was examined in a riparian savanna in the nonglaciated Allegheny Plateau of northwestern Pennsylvania. Microtopography within the savanna consisted of numerous small, dry ridges alternating with saturated depressions. The sparse (tree density = 54.7 stems/ha; basal area = 7.1m
4032742|A floristic survey of "The Hammock," Florida's first State Natural Feature to be recognized under a new program for preserving typical examples of the State's original land forms, is presented. A description of the major plant communities, an annotated list of species, and a brief historical account is given. Three hundred and thirty-six species from 100 families are reported.
4033806|A floristic inventory of the Ichetucknee Springs State Park, located in southeastern Suwannee and southwestern Columbia counties, was documented from March 1991 to November 1993. Collections of 604 species of vascular plants were made in the 907 ha (2,241 acres) site, representing 111 families and 358 genera. Sixty species of bryophytes were collected, consisting of 39 mosses and 21 liverworts. Plant communities were characterized by quantitative methods and general field observations. Eleven natural plant communities were documented, which include sandhill, upland mixed forest, upland pine forest, bluffs, floodplain forest, floodplain swamp, floodplain marsh, sinkholes and sinkhole ponds, depression marsh, dome swamp, and spring-run streams and river.
4032743|Leavenworthia uniflora (Michx.) Britton (Cruciferae) has the widest geographical range of any of the 11 taxa in the genus, and it is the only one that is not considered threatened or endangered. In southeastern United States, L. uniflora is restricted to cedar glades and other limestone barrens. Populations are infrequent, small in size, and in number of individuals. In Kentucky the species has been collected in seven counties, but some of the collections are very old. Extant populations presently are known to occur on cedar glades in Logan, Simpson and Warren Cos. The geographical distribution pattern qualifies L. uniflora as a rare species in Kentucky, and probably throughout its range. We propose that L. uniflora be added to the list of rare and endangered vascular plant species in those southeastern states in which it occurs.
4032542|Jones, S. B., Jr. (Department of Botany, University of Georgia, Athens, 30601). Hybridization of Vernonia acaulis and V. noveboracensis (Compositae) in the Piedmont of North Carolina. Two seasonally and ecologically isolated species of Vernonia were found to be hybridizing in Montgomery and Randolph Counties, North Carolina. Man has broken down the ecological isolation by clearing the forest and cutting roads through this area. Origin of the natural hybrids was documented by the production of artificial F
4033792| Previously, four hybrids have been known to occur naturally among certain members of the "rostrate" violets of Section Viola in the genus Viola. During examinations of herbarium specimens in a systematic study of the section, three new hybrids were found from the Appalachian region, two represented by a number of specimens from widely scattered localities. The morphology of all three is described, and two, V. appalachiensis  striata and V. striata  walteri are given the names V. wujekii hybr. nov. and V. cooperrideri hybr. nov., respectively. Low pollen viability and cleistogamous seed set are discussed. This constitutes the first report of interspecific hybridization involving V. appalachiensis Henry or V. walteri House. 
41301481|The College Woods in Williamsburg, Virginia (a.k.a. Matoaka Woods) contains a maturing post-cultivation upland hardwood forest (oaks, beech, tuliptree, hickories). In 1994 four size classes of woody stems were sampled on 27 permanent plots, and those same plots were re-sampled in 2003. Cluster analysis revealed that between samplings there was little change in the composition of the large tree ( 10 cm dbh) or small tree (2.5-10 cm dbh) size classes. There was great change in the density of certain species in the sapling (1.4 m tall, < 2.5 cm dbh) and tall seedling (0.5-1.4 m tall) size classes, even though the sapling size class was initially similar to the small tree layer. In these two smaller size classes, change was mostly great decrease in some species (Viburnum acerifolium, Cornus florida, Acer rubrum, and Euonymus americana) rather than increase in the remaining abundant taxa (Fagus grandifolia, Ilex opaca, Gaylussacia spp. and Vaccinium spp.). Preferential browsing by an increasing deer population likely caused these dramatic changes.
4032511|A small population of Leavenworthia exigua var. lutea Rollins has been discovered in a cedar glade area in Maury County, Tennessee. This is the first report of the occurrence of this taxon outside Jefferson County in north central Alabama.
4033557|Murdannia keisak, a constituent of the freshwater wetland flora of the southeastern United States and of eastern Asia, is a weedy species whose range is expanding. Most authorities believe M. keisak to have been introduced into the U.S. from Asia. The first published report of M. keisak in the U.S. was of a 1935 collection near the site of rice introduction to the Carolinas. It is likely that M. keisak was introduced accidentally with rice cultivation, but was kept from escaping from rice fields by diligent weed control. We discuss the available evidence in an attempt to clarify how and when M. keisak came to the U.S. and what factors may account for its relatively recent spread.
4033382|Annual height growth rates for saplings (1-12 m high) of 13 canopy tree species were measured in natural gaps of southern Appalachian cove forests. Study sites were limited to three federally protected tracts of land at mid (570 m) to high (1300 m) elevations in which little or no man-made disturbance was evident. Disturbances within these regions generally were due to small, single-tree gaps averaging 155 m
4033384|Terpsinoe musica is a euryhaline diatom species of infrequent occurrence. Inland reports of this taxon are generally limited to isolated springs and river sections; however, taken together with marine populations its ecological range broadens considerably. Terpsinoe musica was observed forming brown flocculant masses on submerged branches and roots and was infrequently found on other substrates in the outflow stream of a constantly flowing spring in southcentral Oklahoma. Mucilage secretion from apical pore fields maintained attachment to substrates and a filamentous growth habit. Populations exhibited a large degree of variation in cell length, whereas width varied only slightly. Reduced length corresponds to increased polymorphism in valve outline. Features of the valve include a single labiate process near the central region, and irregularly arranged pores on the valve face. Terpsinoe musica may provide a model for examining genetic variation within species with populations that are morphologically similar, but have restricted distributions.
4034039|Epiphyllous liverworts are reported for the first time from North Carolina and Tennessee. The epiphyllous taxa include seven species of liverworts, with Cololejeunea biddlecomiae and Frullania asagrayana reported as epiphylls for the first time. Rhododendron maximum and rarely Leucothoe editorum were host species. Most occurrences, with the exception of those in the escarpment gorge region in South Carolina, consist of a few scattered liverwort shoots on 1-3 Rhododendron leaves. Cololejeunea cardiocarpa, though uncommon, appears specially adapted and successful as an epiphyll in the Southern Appalachians.
4033211|This investigation presents a descriptive taxonomic treatment of the genus Buckleya (Santalaceae) based on the examination of over 400 specimens from twenty-four herbaria. Through the examination of herbarium specimens and by consultation with previous treatments, morphological descriptions, a diagnostic key, and distribution maps have been developed. After an examination of the four species of Buckleya, it is suggested that B. henryi Diels and B. lanceolata (Siebold & Zucc.) Miq. represent a closely related species pair. Buckleya distichophylla (Nutt.) Torrey and B. graebneriana Diels differ significantly from this pair and do not appear to show a close affinity to each other.
4032852|Collections of vascular plants from nine study stations along the middle Mississippi River sand and mud flats in southern Illinois and southeastern Missouri were made over three growing seasons. Of 187 taxa recorded, the Gramineae, Euphorbiaceae, Compositae and Cyperaceae were, respectively, the most widespread and abundant groups. Floristic similarity coefficients of nine sites along 30 miles of shoreline ranged from .189 to .803. Line transects through representative communities indicated that six to seven species comprised 83 to 87 percent of the total relative frequencies of species encountered. Composition and distribution of river flat flora are greatly influenced by proximity of seed source, site habitat diversity, frequency and season of flooding, and chance dispersal of disseminules by water.
20433878|A large population of the globally rare shrub Buckleya distichophylla occurs on Poor Mountain, Roanoke County, Virginia in the Blue Ridge Mountains. Plot data were taken to characterize the forests associated with this rare shrub. Cluster analysis identified three forest types based on overstory composition: mixed hardwoods, Quercus prinus and Pinus pungens. Ordination and discriminant analyses showed that B. distichophylla was associated with xeric sites dominated by P. pungens with a thick layer of ericaceous shrubs. The evidence of past fires and the abundance of fire-intolerant trees, e.g., Nyssa sylvatica, in the understory suggest that the forests are slowly succeeding in the absence of periodic fires. Advance regeneration of P. pungens may not be adequate to perpetuate its current dominance on xeric sites. Buckleya distichophylla is an integral component of the pine-oak/heath woodland natural community on Poor Mountain and may be more of a fire-adapted species than previously thought.
4033579|A floristic study was conducted between July, 1981 and November, 1982 on a ravine system in an 88-hectare area of Gold Head Branch State Park in southwestern Clay County of northeastern peninsular Florida. There is a dramatic relief of this karst area, sharply contrasting with the surrounding sandhill community. Five plant communities--ruderal, sandhill, xeric oak scrub, streambank, and mixed hardwoods--were distinguished within the study area. A total of 356 species comprising 26 hepatics, 30 mosses, 256 vascular plants, and 44 lichens was collected.
4034053|The vascular flora of the Jones Ecological Research Center (Ichauway), a remnant longleaf pine/wiregrass ecosystem located in the Coastal Plain of Georgia, was inventoried. High species richness and large numbers of rare and endemic plants are associated with the open, fire-maintained longleaf pine forests and associated depressional wetlands and riparian hardwood forests. The study identified 1,013 taxa in 466 genera and 134 families. The total includes 392 species that are the first record of occurrence for Baker County, Georgia. The Georgia Natural Heritage Program lists 25 of these species as endangered, rare, or of special concern in the state of Georgia, two of which, Lindera melissaefolium and Schwalbea americana, are listed as federally endangered. Ninety-three (9%) of the taxa are introduced.
4034131|Vegetation at two dry sandstone barrens in Pope County, Illinois was sampled to provide baseline data on composition, structure, diversity, and species-abundance patterns for comparison with vegetational changes resulting from applications of prescribed fire. Permanent plots were established at both sites. Data were collected from canopy, subcanopy/shrub, and ground-cover strata. One site, Gibbons Creek Barrens, is the fire treatment site while the other, Forest Service Barrens, serves as a fire-free control site. The vegetation at these barrens remnants is similar in many regards facilitating their use as treatment and control units for experimental study of fire effects. Both sites are dominated strongly in the canopy by Quercus stellata Wangh. The subcanopy shrub/sapling stratum is dominated by Ulmus alata Michx.; however, several other taxa are common to occasional. Size-class distribution of over-story trees suggests a pattern of change characterized by stand closure as recruitment of Quercus stellata and Ulmus alata alters the open barrens structure. Patterns of subcanopy recruitment and tree size-class distribution support an interpretation of sites that are compositionally stable and structurally unstable in the over-story. The same six ground-cover species are the most abundant species at both sites; however, rank abundance differs. At Gibbons Creek Barrens the dominant herbaceous species is the C
4032588|The Marshall Forest flora, dispersed through Pine-Oak, Hickory Plant Communities, numbers 300 taxa of which most range widely over eastern and southeastern United States.
4033628|One hundred and sixty-two moss taxa (154 species and 8 varieties) are reported for Rowan County, Kentucky. Barbula reflexa, Bryum cyclophyllum, B. gemmiparum, Ditrichum rhynchostegium, Ephemerum cohaerens, and Fabronia ciliaris are newly reported for Kentucky. Other species of interest include Brothera leana, Fissidens exilis, Gumnostomum angustifolium, and Heterocladium macounii.
4032338|Amaranthus albus, A. blitoides, A. retroflexus, Anoda cristata, Anthriscus scandicina, Brassica hirta, Chorispora tenella, Conringia orientalis, Descurainia sophia, Eragrostis poaoides, Froelichia gracilis, Helianthus petiolaris, Hordeum jubatum, Jacquemontia tamnifolia, Kochia scoparia, Lappula echinata, Lesquerella gracilis, Nothoscordum fragrans, Plantago purshii var. gnaphalioides, Plantago wrightiana, Ranunculus arvensis, and Salsola kali are reported as additions to the vascular flora of Tennessee. Additional county records are given for other taxa whose distribution in the state is inadequately known.
24619736|Elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration ([CO2]) alters the physiology, growth, and development of plants. These changes in plant functioning are likely to impact the relationship between some plant pathogens and their hosts. This study examined the interactive effects of elevated [CO2] and the economically important, xylem-limited bacterial pathogen Xylella fastidiosa Wells et al. on the physiology and growth of Quercus rubra L. (red oak) seedlings. We hypothesized that growth at elevated [CO2] would ameliorate the negative consequences of infection on Q. rubra growth and physiology. Oak seedlings were inoculated with a natural strain of X. fastidiosa and grown under "ambient" (400 ppm) and "elevated" (1,000 ppm) [CO2] for 24 wk. Gas exchange, plant growth, and biomass allocation were measured to determine if elevated [CO2] alleviated the severity of X. fastidiosainduced water stress. Xylella fastidiosa infection decreased photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, and transpiration, as well as leaf area and total biomass. Although photosynthesis increased in both noninfected and X. fastidiosainfected plants grown at elevated [CO2], the lack of significant [CO2]  infection interaction indicated that elevated [CO2] did not ameliorate the effects of X. fastidiosa infection on leaf-level physiology. Additionally, photosynthetic increases at elevated [CO2] did not translate to relief of infection symptoms at the whole-plant scale. The findings of this experiment did not support the hypothesis that growth at elevated [CO2] ameliorates the negative consequences of X. fastidiosa infection on seedling physiology and growth. Future studies should continue to explore the interactive effects of [CO2] and infection by X. fastidiosa on plant performance.
4033296|The flowering period was determined for 196 tidal marsh plant species, which included 89 monocotyledons and 107 dicotyledons and represented 63 families and 122 genera, in Mississippi. Observations on living plants in the field, over a 15 year period, were used to document precisely the sequence of flowering phenology. The shortest period of flowering, which occurred in 18 species, was one month with about one month for fruit maturation. The longest period of flowering and fruit development spans nine months. The average period of flowering for all species was 3.2 months. Three basic flowering patterns were noted and described. About 152 species are in flower during July, which represents the peak flowering period in Mississippi tidal marshes. About 65 monocots are in flower from June to August and about 85 dicots are in flower between August and September, representing peaks for these groups. In low salinity marshes, the peak flowering period is reached when 108 species are in bloom between June and July. The peak flowering period in brackish marshes is reached during August, when about 30 species are in flower. The peak flowering period in saline marshes occurs during September when 10 species are in flower. Of the 10 species occurring on hypersaline areas, about seven species are in flower during August. The data presented in this paper fill a void by providing a reference list and two indexes to the tidal marsh flora of Mississippi. The information may also be useful to botanist, researches and teachers on the coasts of Texas, Louisiana, Alabama and northwest Florida.
4033178|The vegetation of five secondary stands in Ohio ranging from 3 years to 120 years old were described using an abundance scale. Successional trends for the area were proposed. The stands represent early old-fields (Aster ericoides, Ambrosia artemisifolia, Eupatorium serotinum, and Solidago spp.) through more mature forest stages (Acer saccharum, Carya cordiformis, C. ovata, Fraxinus americana, Prunus serotina, Quercus prinus, and Q. rubra). The stands are located in southwestern Ohio near Cincinnati (Hamilton County). The stands studied are located close to one another in a protected area in Shawnee Lookout Park.
24619555|The Perdido River Forever Wild Tract (PRFWT) is a contiguous 7,365-ha property that was acquired through multiple purchases by the State of Alabama's Forever Wild Program in December 2006. The PRFWT lies 48 km east-northeast of Mobile, Alabama, 56 km northwest of Pensacola, Florida, and is bound on the east by the Perdido River. The site is managed by the Alabama Department of Conservation and Natural Resources as a nature preserve and wildlife management/recreational area. An intensive floristic study of this area was conducted from October 2007 through June 2012. A total of 721 taxa (713 different species, including five hybrids) from 371 genera and 122 families were collected with 95 taxa representing county records. One state record species was also collected. Asteraceae was the most collected family, with 127 species. Poaceae, Fabaceae, and Cyperaceae were the next largest families with 74, 54, and 39 species, respectively. Quercus was the largest genus represented with 15 species. Eighty-four nonnative species were collected during the surveys. Plant collections were deposited at the Alabama Natural Heritage Section Herbarium (ALNHS) and Anniston Museum of Natural History/Jacksonville State University Herbarium (JSU), with replicates and duplicates deposited at the University of Alabama Herbarium (UNA), Auburn University Herbarium (AUA), and Troy University Herbarium (TROY).
4034319|An Appalachian oak forest, dominated by scarlet and chestnut oaks in 1971, was sampled in 1994 and again in 1999 to determine changes in density and basal area of overstory trees, changes in density and composition of understory vegetation, height growth of seedlings and saplings after disturbance by single tree gaps, primarily of scarlet oak, and general ice damage to the canopy. From 1971 to 1994, 82% of scarlet oaks died, so by 1994 the stand was dominated by chestnut oak and red maple. Changes in overstory tree density and basal area were not significant, but decline of scarlet oak was significant. This suggests that the stand is in a state of flux. Post-disturbance increases in total densities of shrubs and saplings, including white pine, were significant, as well as the increase in red maple seedlings and decline of flowering dogwood seedlings. Relative increase in height growth of white pine was also significant. Disturbance from ice damage was minor, but disturbance due to tree deaths was major. White pine should become more common, but natural thinning may prevent most from reaching the canopy. The stand should be dominated in about twenty years by white pine and red maple with fewer oaks.
4033431|An inventory of the vascular flora of nine of eleven units of Richmond National Battlefield Park was compiled from 1985 to 1987. Each site was visited during the growing season in two to four week intervals; plant species were identified and recorded in the field and/or collected for later study. A total of 761 different species were identified in the surveyed units, and 2487 individual records of species per particular park unit were noted. Twenty-three percent of the flora consists of exotic species, largely from Eurasia. Voucher specimens are housed in the herbaria of the University of Richmond and Virginia Commonwealth University.
40793292|Piedmont prairie communities of the southeastern United States were common prior to European settlement. Suther Prairie in Cabarrus County, North Carolina is among the best-known examples of such an ecosystem. This study provides a complete floristic list of species observed at the site from 1997-2007. Sampling over the 10 yr period included fixed transects and general floristic inventories. During the 2006-07 growing seasons, additional transects and 90 randomly placed 1 m quadrats were established for sampling species frequency. Soil in six of these random quadrats was sampled at three depths (0-10 cm, 11-20 cm, 21-30 cm) for pH, organic C, total N, and extractable P, K, Ca, Mg, Zn, Mn, Cu, B, and Na. There were 208 species documented during the 10 yr sampling period. In 2006-07 142 new species were identified, but 49 previously documented species were not re-located. Of the 208 species, 66 were graminoids (36 grasses and 30 sedges/rushes). Ninety of these had previously been reported from prairie habitats. Obligate or facultative wetland species comprised 32% of the list. Thirteen species were rare, watch-listed, or uncommon for North Carolina. Big Bluestem (Andropogon gerardii) and Eastern Gamagrass (Tripsacum dactyloides var. dactyloides) had the highest frequency of occurrence during the 2006-07 sampling. Species richness was 6.8 species per m. Levels of Ca and Mg were much higher than normal for Piedmont soils, and there was significant variation in soil C, N, P and Zn levels among the sampled depths.
4033287|The known range of the primarily northeastern Spiranthes ochroleuca is extended southward into the Appalachian Mountains of western North Carolina. In this region it occurs on wooded slopes and reaches peak flowering in late September and early October.
4032800|This floristic study treats the 3 species of Psychotria native to Florida. A key to the species is given. Distribution within the state is shown by maps based on county records. Psychotria punctata is recognized as cultivated, but is rejected as a naturalized species.
4033727|The effects of induced plant injury on leaf lobation of red mulberry (Morus rubra L.) were studied in 1990, 1991, and 1992 at Bowling Green, Kentucky. Injury treatments consisted of complete defoliation of sprouts and saplings and trunk and branch removal from saplings. Pre- and post-injury lobation means were compared. In general, leaf defoliation (only) resulted in new flushes of leaves that were less lobed, whereas leaf defoliation plus stem and branch removal resulted in the production of adventitious branches with new flushes of leaves that were more lobed. This leaf lobation response to plant injury was interpreted as being of adaptive value to the plant. The resulting stress morphology was attributed to phenotypic plasticity of leaf lobation.
23274401|There has been question whether the taxon known as Yucca filamentosa (Agavaceae) is to be distinguished from the taxon known as Yucca flaccida. Much of the uncertainty lay in the absence of sure knowledge of the forms intended by their original authors. A neotype of Y. flaccida from Florida was selected in 2006. Here, the type locality in Virginia of Y. filamentosa is revisited and an epitype is selected. The two taxa, as represented by plants from these two type localities, differ markedly in a number of characteristics. It is suggested that Y. filamentosa and Y. flaccida be retained at specific rank.
4033587|This paper presents a list of 244 taxa identified during a three-year study of the phytoplankton communities in Lake Barkley. Taxa belonged to Cyanophyceae (8.6%), Chlorophyceae (28.7%), Euglenophyceae (6.1%), Dinophyceae (2.0%), Cryptophyceae (1.2%), and Bacillariophyceae (53.4%). Additionally, seasonal distributions of phytoplankton standing crops in two embayments and at one main channel site are shown. These data indicate that Cyanophyceae and Bacillariophyceae dominate the phytoplankton in Lake Barkley..
4032690|A highly unusual and floristically interesting assemblage of plants is reported for Oconee County, South Carolina. Area description and community composition are given, and 5 species new to South Carolina and 19 new to Oconee County are reported.
4033828|Two new combinations within the genus Portulaca are proposed. A study of the morphology, geography, and chromosome number indicates that P. coronata Small and P. lanceolata Engelm. in Gray are best treated as subspecies of P. umbraticola Kunth.
4033202|Carex laxiculmis Schweinitz and Carex pedunculata Muhlenberg are reported for the first time from the Great Smoky Mountains. The occurrence of Carex purpurifera Mackenzie was established at a new location within the limits of the park.
4033515|Thirty-three lichens, including a number of very rare species characteristic of Pine-oak Scrub, are listed. Since almost no records are available for Georgia lichens, most are useful records for the state, although Georgia is in the general range.
4033699|Many have speculated that fire suppression and the subsequent woody encroachment have contributed to the demise of the barrens. Prescribed fire is becoming a common tool for barrens reconstruction; however, information on presettlement fire frequencies in xeric forests is limited. In an attempt to document presettlement and postsettlement fire frequencies of these xeric communities, this study was initiated. Four study sites, which had been logged recently, were selected from the Ozark and Shawnee Hills of southern Illinois. Trees were examined for age and evidence of fire scars. A total of 299 trees were examined. No trees examined dated to presettlement times. Fire frequency was greatest 60 to 80 years ago with few fires occurring in the past 50 years. It appears that reduction in fire frequency has contributed to the recent increase of woody species coverage and the consequent reduction in the herbaceous component of the barrens.
4033893|Elkhart Woods is a high quality prairie grove located about one km east of the town of Elkhart, Illinois. This isolated grove is situated on a glacial kame of Illinoian age surrounded by flat to gently rolling farmland. Acer saccharum Marsh. dominated all tree diameter classes, had the highest importance value (84 of 200), averaged 132.5 stems/ha (above 10 cm dbh), and had a basal area of 9.33
4033264|Ten areas in the southern Appalachians surpass 5,500 ft (1,680 m), with maximum elevation ranging from 5,520 ft (1,682 m) to 6,684 ft (2,037 m). These high elevation areas might be viewed as a series of high elevation islands of northern community types. A total vascular flora of 342 species has been documented for these areas, with species richness on the separate areas positively correlated with size of the area, number of peaks, maximum elevation, and number of community types present. Rare species categories were more strongly correlated with area than was total species richness. A log/log plot of the species-area relations for the eight largest areas had a slope of .28 (similar to values reported for insular areas) when all ten areas were included the slope was .12 (similar to values reported for continental areas). The two smallest areas (Mt. Pisgah and Whitetop) had higher species richness than predicted from their size alone. An hypothesis is-developed that explains this pattern and the patchy distribution of rare plants among the ten areas.
20433899|The short-term dynamics of mixed mesophytic forest strata in West Virginia were examined using similarity analysis and linear correlation of shared ordination space. The overstory tree, understory tree, shrub/vine, and herb strata were stable over a six year interval, whereas the tree seedling and sapling strata were unstable. All strata but the shrub/vine and tree seedling strata were correlated with soil pH, elevation, P, K, Fe, Mn, Ca, and Mg, with the latter two variables being the weakest for the overstory tree, understory tree, and sapling strata. The herb stratum was also significantly correlated with the shrub/vine and tree seedling strata. The soil fertility gradient corresponded with a moisture gradient. More xeric plots tended to be less stable than more mesic plots for all strata. Successful forest management may depend on knowledge of the lower tree strata species composition, because such composition will likely vary prior to future disturbance events.
4033776|Aspects of the population and reproductive ecology of the endangered fragrant prickly-apple cactus [Cereus eriophorus var. fragrans (Small) L. Benson] in Florida were studied in order to provide a basis for prudent management. Individual plants in two populations were permanently marked, mapped, and monitored monthly for one year. They had a clumped distribution, largely under cabbage palm trees. Growth was slowest in the dry winter months and fastest in the wet summer season. Flowering peaked in April and May with a minor peak in October. Sixty-three percent of the mature plants flowered and fifty percent of the flowers produced fruit. There was a positive relationship between plant size and fruit production. Mortality was approximately five percent, mostly in the summer months, and there was no successful recruitment. Individuals growing in the sun in ecotones between vegetation and open sandy areas demonstrated significantly higher flower production and fruit set than those growing in shade.
4032787|One hundred eighty-four species of bryophytes are reported from south and central Mississippi. Of this number one hundred twenty-two are mosses, sixty-one are liverworts, and one is a hornwort.
4033054|A short segment of the Little River as it crosses the Fall Line in Hanover County, Virginia, was the focus of this floristic study. Plants were collected throughout the growing seasons of 1976 and 1977 and intermittently from 1978 through 1981. The study area is characterized by six distinct habitats: 1) lowlands, 2) lower to middle slopes, 3) upper slopes and ridges, 4) upland flats, 5) rocky coves and 6) disturbed habitats. The flora of the study area is a mixture of Piedmont and Coastal Plain species. The catalogue of the vascular plants includes 93 families, 278 genera and 453 species. The Asteraceae and the Poaceae are the two largest families representing 21% of the flora.
4033895|To determine forest composition and successional trends in the central Piedmont of Virginia, 32 stands within Cumberland State Forest and Powhatan Lake Wildlife Management Area in Cumberland and Powhatan Counties, respectively, were quantitatively sampled and analyzed using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and canonical correlational analysis (CCA) for large tree, small tree, and sapling size classes. Quercus alba, Q. velutina, and Q. coccinea were the three most important overstory species. An abundance of Q. velutina suggests that the central Piedmont may be more similar to the northeastern Piedmont than the southern Piedmont. Quercus prinus was abundant in the overstory only atop a monadnock in Cumberland State Forest. We found that Q. prinus was most successful in sites with a combination of level terrain, soils with low levels of Mg and Ca, and sudden elevation increases in relation to surrounding landscape. Nyssa sylvatica, Acer rubrum, and Cornus florida were the most important understory species. Acer rubrum and C. florida were never found codominating the same stand in the understory, suggesting that each has a significantly different environmental optimum. To determine the expanse of the transition zone between the Piedmont vegetation and the Coastal Plain vegetation, we compared our study in the central Piedmont with studies in the Coastal Plain and the eastern Piedmont at the Fall Line. Comparison of our study sites with those of E. Wolff and S. Ware from Pocahontas State Park in the eastern Piedmont leads us to conclude that their study area lies in the eastern portion of a transition zone between vegetation typical of the (central) Piedmont and that of the Coastal Plain. Further study needs to be done in the areas between Wolff and Ware's study sites and ours to conclude whether the transition zone is narrow or a broad transitional expanse.
41416205|Lepraria caesiella as currently circumscribed includes two sets of populations with different thallus morphologies. The populations are chemically identical but differ ecologically and are rarely sympatric. A phylogeny was inferred from ITS1, 5.8S, and ITS2 sequence data generated from a geographically broad sampling of the populations with each thallus type. Two strongly-supported clades were recovered that correlate to the two different morphotypes present within the species. Thus, L. caesiella is restricted to populations with aggregate thalli. Populations with placodioid thalli are formally described herein as a new species, I. harrisiana. A detailed taxonomic treatment of both taxa is presented.
4032409|An analysis of soils in a fallow field rich in Lobelia inflata L., and a list of associated species.
4032838|Keys, distributions, taxonomic and nomenclatural notes are given for the seven species of Anemone native to the southeastern United States. The name Anemone berlandieri Pritzel is recognized in place of A. heterophylla Nutt. ex Torr. & Gray.
27742888|Acid deposition contributes to forest health concerns at high elevation sites in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP). Bark samples were taken from living trees at three study sites: Abies fraseri and Picea rubens from high elevation sites near the Clingman's Dome area of Tennessee; Juniperus virginiana and Quercus alba at low elevation sites at GSMNP in the Cades Cove area and also at Pertle Springs (PS), Missouri. All trees were climbed using the doubled rope climbing method and sampled for bark at approximately 3 m increments up to 12 m. A total of 162 laboratory moist chamber cultures were prepared in Petri dishes using bark samples representing all tree species, then measured for pH, and examined for myxomycete plasmodia and fruiting bodies. Thirty-four myxomycete species were observed and identified from cultures of tree bark from GSMNP that included two new records, Physarum auriscalpium and a possible new species of Trichia. Thirty species represent new records for the state of Missouri; most notable were Clastoderma microcarpum, Licea inconspicua, Physarum synsporum, and Macbrideola declinata. Data were analyzed using Nonmetric Multidimensional Scaling, Multi-response Permutation Procedure, and Indicator Species Analysis ordinations. Juniperus virginiana had the highest mean bark pH at 6.76 and also the highest species diversity, and Picea rubens had the lowest mean bark pH at 3.72; both had distinctive assemblages of myxomycete species. Abies fraseri had the lowest species diversity with no observed species. Myxomycete species diversity appears to decrease at higher elevations with aerial pollutants adversely impacting Abies fraseri.
4033177|A forest which is located at Sandy Hook, New Jersey, and which is among the best developed Ilex opaca forests on the east coast of the United States, was studied during September and October, 1977. The Point Centered Quarter Method was used to sample arborescent vegetation and density, relative density, frequency, relative frequency, basal area, relative dominance, and importance values were calculated. Holly is dominant and will probably remain dominant because of its isolation, lack of competition, shade tolerance, and tolerance of salt spray.
4033357|Paynes Prairie State Preserve is located in north-central peninsular Florida, south of Gainesville, in Alachua County. The plant communities of the basin form a diverse and fluctuating mosaic, and are typical of the freshwater marshes and prairies of north-central Florida. The hammock adjacent to Alachua Sink contains numerous sinkholes, is rich in species, and shows little evidence of human or natural disturbance. A taxonomic study of the vascular flora was conducted on the 5600 ha basin and the 10.4 ha hammock. Collections were made from April 1981 to October 1982 and the names are compiled in an annotated list which contains 422 species (423 taxa) representing 108 families. Range extensions are noted for five species occurring on the basin, and the newly described Forestiera godfreyi is reported from the hammock. The plant communities of the basin are also described with respect to floristics, physiognomy, and length of inundation.
4032949|Hurricane Camille caused hundreds of debris avalanches in Nelson County, Virginia, during the night of August 19-20, 1969. This study examines the vegetational recovery of the erosional segments of four of these avalanches. Liriodendron tulipifera, Betula lenta, Robinia pseudo-acacia, and Sassafras albidum were the most important tree species after ten years. Vines including Lonicera japonica and Rubus spp. made important contributions to the vegetative cover. Seedlings of species characteristic of the mature forest were present but at low frequencies. The amount of regolith removed and the composition of the adjacent forests are the major factors contributing to the rate of recovery and the species composition on the debris avalanches.
4032612|An ecological and floristic study of bryophytes was made in the wooded floodplain communities of the Bush River (Prince Edward Co.) and Roanoke Creek (Charlotte Co.) in the south-central piedmont of Virginia. Five distinct microhabitats were identified. These include floodplain soils, exposed tree roots in water, moist decorticated logs, embankments of sloughs and rivers, and trees. Forty-two bryophytes were collected in this community. Of this number, 28 are mosses and 14 are liverworts. Thirteen bryophytes are indicators of specific microhabitats on piedmont floodplains.
4033951| A survey of the woody plants was conducted during a ten year period (1985-95) at the Rock Creek Research Natural Area (RCRNA) gorge, a 77 ha old-growth stand of Hemlock-Mixed Mesophytic Forest, and its 353 ha upland watershed. The study site is located in the London Ranger District of the Daniel Boone National Forest in Laurel County, Kentucky, at the extreme western edge of the Northern Cumberland Plateau. The annotated catalogue consists of 117 (112 native, 5 exotic) woody species in 77 genera from 43 families. Five plant community types described are the old-growth Hemlock-Mixed Mesophytic Forest and Riverine Floodplain Forest of RCRNA, and the Pine-Oak Forest, Oak-Hickory-Pine Forest, and clear-cuts (7-year old and 35-year old) of the watershed uplands. Geographical floristic affinities of the woody plants reveal that 87 are intraneous, 25 are extraneous, and five are naturalized. The Srensons Index of Similarity is 78.8% between RCRNA and its uplands and Robinson Forest, and 84.7% between RCRNA and its uplands and Lilley Cornett Woods, two other mixed mesophytic forest stands with old-growth remnants in the Northern Cumberland Plateau. 
4033660|Cedar glade, limestone barren, and glade woodland communities are reported from limestone terranes in the Ridge and Valley of northeastern West Virginia. The cedar glade communities are dominated by Bouteloua curtipendula, Solidago arguta var. harrisii, Paronychia virginica, and Monarda fistulosa var. brevis, limestone barren communities by Bouteloua, Hystrix patula, and Schizachyrium scoparius, and glade woodlands by Juniperus virginiana, Quercus muehlenbergii, and Cercis canadensis. Drought stress appears to play a role in determining the vegetation of these areas. The flora of these three communities consists of 202 known species, including 24 considered to be rare in West Virginia and eight Appalachian shale barren endemics. Monarda fistulosa var. brevis appears to be endemic to cedar glades, limestone barrens, glade woodlands and dry limestone cliffs of West Virginia and Virginia. Six other species are almost completely restricted in West Virginia to these communities; Ophioglossum engelmannii and Senecio plattensis are reported from West Virginia for the first time. The unique flora of these communities in West Virginia suggests that they apparently originated independently of cedar glade communities of the Interior Low Plateaus.
4032968|The flora of the Highbanks (Doty's Highbank), a part of Hueston Woods State Park, has been studied over a period of years, the result being the accumulation of a substantial list of native plants (several of which are endangered or threatened). The site is of vegetational interest in that it is an oak-hickory stand occurring in what is generally considered to be a beech-maple forest region. The local edaphic and geologic conditions probably contribute to the vegetational and floristic distinctiveness of the Highbanks site. We hope that our studies will lead to a better appreciation, and possible further preservation, of this unusual locality.
4033246|The fern commonly called Cystopteris fragilis (L.) Bernh. var. mackayi Laws. (Dryopteridaceae) has been interpreted as either a variety of C. fragilis or as a hybrid resulting from introgression between C. fragilis var. fragilis and the predominantly southern hemispheric taxon C. diaphana (Bory) Blasdell. Neither of these two interpretations correctly reflects its evolutionary relationships; rather, var. mackayi appears to be a distinct species on the basis of its range, habitat, morphology, and cytology. Cystopteris tenuis (Michx.) Desv. is the earliest legitimate name for this plant at the specific level.
27742881|Cool Springs Environmental Education Center (CSEEC), owned by Weyerhaeuser Company, includes a 591 ha State Significant Natural Area. It is located in Craven County, North Carolina, in the floristically rich Atlantic Coastal Plain. A vascular flora inventory documented the occurrences of 567 species and sub-specific taxa and 303 genera in 118 plant families, including populations of the Atlantic Coastal Plain endemics Pondspice (Litsea aestivalis) and LeBlond's Coastal Goldenrod (Solidago villosicarpa). We identified twenty plant community types, including the uncommon Longleaf Pine (Pinus palustris) Woodland, Bald CypressTupelo Gum (Taxodium distichum  Nyssa aquatica) Swamp, a number of small depression wetland communities, and the novel Sand Laurel Oak-Loblolly Pine (Quercus hemisphaerica  Pinus taeda) Woodland. Soils ranged from excessively drained sands to very poorly drained organics. The order of the soil mapping units according to the number of plant taxa they supported per unit area was TaB &gt; PO &gt; Ln &gt; Mu &gt; DO, MM &gt; Se &gt; KuB. Among five of 12 floristic study sites having positive residuals in the regression of log species richness on log area, CSEEC had the third largest residual. There was no relationship between the residuals from regressions of log species on log area and soil drainage heterogeneity on log area. The occurrences of two rare plant species, a species-rich flora, ten natural plant community types, and an assemblage of wet and dry soils in a variety of geomorphic settings are objective factors justifying the recognition of CSEEC as a State Significant Natural Area.
4034114|Herbaceous zones in a Carolina bay in Maryland (Delmarva Bay) were monitored annually during 1987-97 by fixed-point photography and by sampling peak percent cover of each species in permanent plots during years of sufficient drawdown. The peripheral Panicum hemitomon zone of 1987 became dominated in 5 years by Acer rubrum (red maple) and Liquidambar styraciflua (sweet gum) with mean peak percent cover increasing from 22% to 88%. Live P. hemitomon cover decreased from 80% to 1%, and Rhexia virginica disappeared from sampling plots. Since the P. hemitomon population did not expand or migrate toward the center of the bay, this zone could be replaced by forest. Another peripheral zone, dominated in 1987 by Rhynchospora charalocephala, also was overtaken by red maple and sweet gum; Rhexia virginica all but disappeared from the zone; and this zone likewise could become forested. The central zone was dominated throughout the study by Scleria reticularis, R. virginica, Lachnanthes caroliniana, and Panicum verrucosum. Although the relative cover of central zone species changed from year to year, a significant trend in absolute percent cover did not occur over the 11-year period. However, in ecotone plots of the central zone and the P. hemitomon zone, R. virginica decreased significantly while red maple and sweet gum increased significantly, thus indicating that afforestation of peripheral communities is already affecting the central zone. Woody plant establishment is probably related to very low rainfall during the winters of 1984-85 and 1985-86 and summers of 1986 and 1987. Once established, subsequent flooding conditions were insufficient to kill saplings and small trees. Studies are needed to understand the potential contribution of farm irrigation wells, regional drainage ditches, and a contiguous pine plantation to bay afforestation. In addition, knowledge of the historic role of Amerindian fires in the Delmarva Bay ecosystem could be helpful in better understanding natural vegetation dynamics.
4032988|The arborescent vegetation of Hughes Island, Ocala National Forest, Florida, was sampled by the point centered quarter method during January 1979. Gordonia lasianthus was dominant, with Nyssa biflora the most important associate. Hughes Island's remoteness probably accounts for its undisturbed state and the large stature of its trees.
40793293|A descriptive survey of the vascular plants was conducted on the Camp Nelson Quarry, a 2.3 ha limestone quarry, abandoned since 1991 in Garrard County, Kentucky. Collections made from this site during 1996, 1997, 2000, 2003, and 2004 resulted in an annotated plant list of 209 species in 155 genera from 61 families. The known vascular plants of the quarry included one species of Equisetophyta, one species of Pinophyta, and 207 species of Magnoliophyta (45 Liliopsida, 162 Magnoliopsida). A total of 137 taxa (65.55%) were native and 72 (34.45%) were non-native. Of the exotics, 34 are considered invasive pest plants in Kentucky. Thirty-four (16.27%) of the taxa were woody, while 175 (83.73%) were herbaceous. In 13 years of disuse, plants have colonized nine anthropogenic habitats in the quarry through progressive secondary succession: vertical highwalls, talus slopes, spoil heaps, dry quarry floor, old-field succession area, wet quarry floor, wet ditch border, seasonal pond area, and permanent pond area. Srenson's Similarity Indices were significant between Camp Nelson Quarry and two older and smaller abandoned limestone quarries. Species richness is expected to increase in the quarry as more plants colonize and become established through progressive secondary succession and soil development.
4032868|The cedar glade endemic Leavenworthia torulosa Gray is presently known from only two localities in Kentucky, one in Warren and the other in Logan County. At both sites most of the plants grow in an area less than 10 m
4033906|The vegetation and flora of 16 dolomite and limestone barren sites in Lee and Russell Counties, Virginia are described. Two-hundred and ninety-eight native and 26 exotic taxa were recorded from the Virginia barrens. Families with the highest number of taxa are the Asteraceae (54 taxa, 16.7%), Poaceae (43 taxa, 13.3%), Fabaceae (19 taxa, 5.9%), and Cyperaceae (17 taxa, 5.6%). Five taxa, Aster pratensis, Carex crawei, Hedyotis nigricans, Rhamnus lanceolata ssp. glabrata, and Spiranthes magnicamporum are reported as new to Virginia, along with 14 others considered rare in the Commonwealth. When floristic similarity is calculated between study sites, barren sites within each county are more similar than Lee and Russell County sites are to each other. Virginia barrens are also compared floristically with other barrens in the Ridge and Valley Physiographic Province. Ecological maintenance of barren communities is attributed to drought stress in possible combination with other factors, including fire. Use of the term barren, glade, and prairie to name this vegetation is discussed.
4032691|Characteristic beech-mixed hardwoods communities are found in moist, well-drained ravines and on moist slopes and bluffs on the northern Coastal Plain Province of North Carolina. These communities appear to be a unique topo-edaphic climax rather than part of the Southern Mixed Hardwoods Forest, a proposed generalized climatic vegetational climax for the coastal plain. The species composition of these slope communities, and other similar ones reported in the literature, relates them closely to mixed mesophytic assemblages more characteristic of the adjacent Piedmont or Mountain Provinces, and the suggestion is made that, rather than being composed of "advance disjuncts," they may be more or less floristically depleted relicts remaining since the post-glacial period. Of a total of 193 plant species collected within the beech-mixed hardwoods community study sites in Martin and Halifax counties, N.C., 85 species (44%) have distributions primarily in the Mountain and/or Piedmont Province of North Carolina; 65 (34%) are distributed essentially throughout the three Provinces; and only 43 species (22%) are found primarily in the Piedmont and/or Coastal Plain Province. Several apparent long range disjunctions are reported for Adiantum pedatum, Eupatorium rugosum, Calycanthus floridus var. floridus, Stellaria pubera, and Carex laxiculmis; numerous eastward range extensions were also discovered.
4032972|State records or otherwise interesting reports for 21 foreign species of vascular plants are given for the southern United States. Most of the 21 appear to be weedy adventives either from the north or west, or spreading rapidly within the southern states; a few seem to be naturalizing escapes from gardens or nurseries.
4032527|Panola Mountain, a granite outcrop southeast of Atlanta, Georgia, has been conserved as one of the last undisturbed habitats of its kind in the southeast. The 471 acre tract is invaluable in teaching and research. Little change in the vegetation of the rock outcrop has occurred over a thirty year period. Four hundred and six vascular plant taxa were identified from the area in 1970.
4032802|In the past the southern portion of the beech-maple forest has usually been considered to be in a stage in succession toward western and mixed mesophytic forests. A review of the pertinent literature indicates three lines of evidence for this: (1) the reproduction of sugar maple and certain other species often far exceeds that of beech, (2) the presence of young individuals of species characteristic of the mesophytic forests, and (3) the arrangement of the diverse plant communities of topographically dissected sites in a successional series. Our research in one stand of the southern beech-maple forest (Hueston Woods) compared the composition and structure of undisturbed portions with that of areas where the windfall of a large beech had created an opening in the canopy. Key differences found in the subcanopy layers of the closed and open sites indicate a mechanism of beech self-replacement, which, if found in other stands, could lead to the rejection of the successional hypothesis.
4032400|Anne Arundel County offers a variety of habitats on the Coastal Plain of Maryland in which plants can flourish and diversify. Its waterway boundaries include the saline Chesapeake Bay on the east and its many estuaries which extend far inland, including the Magothy, South, Severn, Patapsco, and Patuxent rivers. Brackish to freshwater swamps found along these estuaries provide a great deal of floral variety. Moist deciduous woods, as well as some dry sandy pine woods and gradations between the two, open pastures, roadsides and ditches--all enhance the possibilities of a rich flora in the county. This study lists 876 species of vascular plants, which represent 117 families. The collections and annotations were made from the spring of 1966 through the summer of 1967. Further additions were made to the preliminary study during the summer of 1970.
4032953|The woodfern, Dryopteris X australis (Wherry) Small, is the backcross hybrid of D. celsa and D. ludoviciana. Since its discovery in 1927 it has been found in only six additional localities. The northernmost of these are in Gates and Camden counties in North Carolina. In these two most recently discovered localities D. X australis exists some 80 miles from D. ludoviciana, one of its parents, and in Alabama, over 150 miles from that species. Material of D. X australis from North Carolina was investigated cytologically. The number and pairing of the chromosomes (41 II's and 41 I's) confirm its hybrid nature and probable parentage.
4032951|Senecio aureus var. ashei Greenm. is an introgressant putatively derived in part from S. plattensis Nutt.
41058099|Amaranthus (Amaranthaceae) is a globally distributed plant genus composed of both weedy and cultivated species. While there have been previous attempts to resolve phylogenetic relationships within the genus, little attention has been placed on systematic relationships of the federally threatened coastal species Amaranthus pumilus Raf., endemic to eastern United States barrier islands, nor on genetic variability within the genus. In the present study, single primer ISSRs were employed to measure both genetic diversity and the phylogenetic position of A. pumilus. Leaf tissue samples were taken from wild populations on Fenwick Island, Delaware and from wild and propagated populations on Assateague Island National Seashore, Maryland. Genetic variation was detected among and within A. pumilus populations, though variability was low. Fenwick populations exhibited the highest genetic variability (h = 0.1016), while on Assateague the wild A. pumilus population had higher variability (0.0340) than the propagated population (0.0185). Due to its desirable characteristics in plant breeding trials, genetic variation within A. pumilus was also compared to variation of grain varieties A. hypochondriacus L. and A. cruentus L. Genetic diversity within A. pumilus was lower than either grain species sampled (0.2263 and 0.2947). Phylogenetic analyses included 41 accessions representing 33 Amaranthus species, and maximum parsimony, neighbor-joining, and Bayesian consensus trees were constructed. Though considerable phylogenetic signal was detected within the data matrix, phylogenetic resolution was low. Amaranthus pumilus grouped with the coastal species arenicola I.M. lohnst, in all consensus trees, which is the first postulated relationship of this pair.
41301503|Assessments of stream biology are prerequisites to developing watershed management plans to improve ecological integrity. We sampled six streams in the Red River Watershed of North-Central Tennessee to evaluate the effects of non-point source pollution on diatom assemblages, primary production, and potential for excessive algal growth. We used diatom indices to assess the structure of diatom assemblages, changes of oxygen concentrations to evaluate primary production, and growth dynamics of the green alga Selenastrum capricomutum to evaluate the potential for excessive algal growth. The three most abundant diatom taxa collected were Nitzschia Means (16%), Navicula reichardtiana (15%), and Navicula tripunctata (7%). Habitat impairment in all six streams is indicated by: (1) high Siltation Index values for diatom assemblages which indicate loss of biotic integrity as a result of excessive sediments from erosion, (2) high rates of whole-stream oxygen metabolism characteristic of eutrophic conditions, (3) low ratios of whole-stream gross primary production to respiration distinctive of heterotroph-dominated habitats often associated with poor quality water, and (4) high carrying capacities for Selenastrum capricomutum indicative of nutrient enrichment. High values of the Trophic Diatom Index and low values of the Pollution Tolerance Index of diatom assemblages at five of the six stream sites signify impairment due to eutrophication. The results reveal the impacts of excessive sediments and nutrient enrichment on the structure of diatom assemblages, oxygen dynamics, and potential for excessive algal growth in streams of the Red River Watershed.
4033316|Porella wataugensis (Sull.) Howe (Hepaticae), described from northwest North Carolina in 1856 is represented by very few collections. Because of its rarity and confusion with Porella pinnata L., doubts about its specific distinction have been perpetuated. Recent collections compare favorably with the type material and confirm the plant as an autonomous species. Its range is established as endemic to a small area in the southern Appalachian Mountains.
4033040|The vascular flora that occurs in sidewalk crevices along streets at 16 intersections in Orangeburg, South Carolina, was examined to determine the occurrence, abundance and growth habits of representative taxa. Cynodon dactylon (L.) Persoon, Euphorbia supina Raf., Digitaria sanguinalis (L.) Scopoli and Eleusine indica (L.) Gaertner were found to be the most frequent species.
4034340|Fourteen vascular plants taxa not previously documented for Pennsylvania are reported with vouchers for each county of occurrence. These include 1 lycophyte, 2 monocots and 11 dicots. Nine species are native to the United States while 5 species have been introduced to the United States.
4033057|Ten wetlands, each at least 1 ha in size, are associated with marl deposits in eastern West Virginia. These wetlands contain a predominantly herbaceous, calciphilic flora which includes twenty-seven species of vascular plants considered to be rare in the State. Disturbances, including drainage, impoundment, and grazing, have been widespread and may have led to a reduction in the number of rare species that occur within a wetland.
4032810|Vernonia is represented by three species in Virginia, with one population of suspected hybrid origin being reported. Four species of Elephantopus are present in Virginia with E. elatus reported as new to the Virginia flora. Keys, brief descriptions and distribution maps are included.
4032771|Since the European wild boar (Sus scrofa L.) was accidently introduced into the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, its population has expanded and presently occupies about three-quarters of the Park. The hogs' rooting activities have severely damaged the herbaceous understories of several types of forest. In the winter, rooting activity is concentrated in the low elevation successional Tulip Forest, and Tulip-Silverbell Forest. At high elevations the hogs root around the shrubs on the Grassy Balds. In Northern Hardwoods and Gray Beech Forests, winter rooting is minor in comparison with the rooting activity in late spring and early summer. Most of the food plants involved in the rooting activity had starchy tubers, bulbs, or rhizomes. These plants included Lilium superbum, Dioscorea batatas, Medeola virginiana, Stachys clingmanii, and Aristolochia spp.
4033717|Acer barbatum Michx. (southern sugar maple) has been regarded as a potentially important component of maturing upland hardwood forests of the Gulf and southern Atlantic coastal plains. However, recent studies of upland hardwood forest composition in the Virginia Coastal Plain have encountered no stands containing this species. It does not normally occur in the usually level to rolling topography of the Virginia Coastal Plain, but rather occurs in steep-sloped ravines cut into the calcareous Pliocene marine deposits which underlie the area. A floristic reconnaissance of such a ravine system (Grove Creek watershed, James City County) in the Virginia Coastal Plain revealed that in this, as in other such calcareous ravines in the area, there occur several species which, like Acer barbatum, are at or near their northern range limits: Bumelia lycioides, Viburnum rufidulum, Berchemia scandens, Carex oxylepis, Scirpus lineatus [=S. fontinalis Harper], Uniola sessiliflora, Sphenopholis filiformis, Malaxis spicata, Ponthieva racemosa, and Fleischmannia incarnata. An even larger number are strongly disjunct from a primary range further west in Virginia: Quercus muehlenbergii, Magnolia tripetala, Cornus alternifolia, Stewartia ovata, Athyrium pycnocarpon, Carex bromoides, Aralia racemosa, Caltha palustris, Ranunculus septentrionalis, Sanicula marilandica, Thalictrum dioicum, Triosteum perfoliatum, Solidago flexicaulis, Campanula americana, Desmodium glutinosum, and Mitella diphylla). The finding of M. diphylla in this watershed was a Coastal Plain record for the southeasten states. Quantitative sampling of the woody vegetation showed that Acer barbatum had the highest basal area in the stand, but was slightly less abundant than Fagus grandifolia in the canopy and much less abundant than the latter in the understory. Acer barbatum reproduction has been episodic and local within the forest, in contrast to that of the widely reproducing F. grandifolia.
4033716|A floristic and vegetational study of the vascular plant flora of the Chauga River gorge was initiated in 1985, resulting in the collection and annotation of 568 species representing 341 genera and 107 families. Voucher specimens have been deposited in the Clemson University Herbarium (CLEMS). Plant communities described are typically dominated by oak and/or pine species. The Chauga River is part of the Savannah River drainage system located in the extreme northwestern portion of South Carolina and is one of the three major drainage systems associated with the Andrew Pickens District of the Sumter National Forest. Recently, the National Forest Service designated the Chauga River and immediate uplands as a scenic river, thereby protecting the vegetation from the impacts of timber management.
20433947|It has long been suggested that phylogenetic divergence between parental species determines the likelihood of their producing a successful polyploid, with closely related parents less likely to form a successful polyploid than more divergent parents. This suggestion has been based partly on observation of patterns of polyploid ancestry and partly by extrapolation from analyses of the processes that give rise to polyploids. Here we present a new survey of the patterns of the divergence between the parents of polyploids, based on node-based and clade-based analyses of phylogenetic trees. We also use the topology of the phylogenetic trees to inform a null expectation of the distance between parental species, assuming random crossing between all species pairs in a genus. We used molecular phylogenies now available for eight plant genera containing multiple polyploids whose parentage has been investigated: Tragopogon, Persicaria, Brassica, Leucaena, Spartina, Spiranthes, Nicotiana, and Glycine. We found that the phylogenetic distance between progenitors of polyploids did not differ significantly from the null expectation. In contrast, the distance between parents of diploid hybrids (both stable and unstable) in these genera were lower than would be expected with random crossing. We discuss how these findings may fit with recent progress, through genetic and genomic studies, in understanding the processes involved in polyploidization.
40983087|The Iroquois Woods Nature Preserve, located just south of Aroma Park, Kankakee County, is in the Kankakee Sand Area of northeastern Illinois. Three relatively distinct topographic zones exist within the preserve (low terrace, shallow depression, high sand terrace). The forest overstory in all three zones, however, is very similar with most of the same species occurring in each zone, but in different densities. These natural communities are probably due to elevation, distance from the river, soil moisture, and erosion due to flooding events. In the low terrace (mesic sand forest), located near the edge of the Iroquois River channel, Quercus rubra, Tilia americana, Ulmus rubra, Aesculus glabra, and Q. macrocarpa dominate, with the oaks in the larger diameter class. In the shallow depression (wet-mesic sand forest) behind the low terrace Quercus bicolor dominated with 50 stems/ha and accounted for almost half of the total basal area. Tilia americana and U. americana were second and third in importance due to the large number of small diameter individuals. East of the depression was a high sand terrace (dry-mesic sand forest) dominated by Q. alba followed by U. americana, Q. velutina, Prunus sertina, and Q. rubra. This preserve contains one of the few examples of high quality mesic sand forests in the state, but oak regeneration is limited, and shade-tolerant species are becoming more abundant.
4033598|Diameter distributions of tree species were determined for the Henry M. Wright Preserve, an old-growth forest at an elevation of 1380 m on the Blue Ridge Divide in Macon County, North Carolina. Betula lenta and Tsuga canadensis were not characterized by negative exponential or otherwise monotonically descending diameter distributions. This is probably caused by the dense cover of evergreen ericaceous shrubs which may prevent the establishment of some tree species. Magnolia fraseri, which reproduces by basal sprouting, does have a negative exponential diameter distribution. Tree seedlings occur predominantly on spatially rare microsites such as rocks, logs, and paths.
41301486|Cumberland Island National Seashore, Camden County, Georgia, is administered by the National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, and includes over 85% of the terrestrial acreage (7,880 ha; 19,472 acres) comprising Cumberland Island. A series of collecting trips over one year (2006-07) yielded 24 species of native angiosperm species not previously vouchered for the Island, presented here in an annotated list. These specimens also verify the presence of nine species vouchered several decades ago but not confirmed by a recent comprehensive inventory. Five species of these latest collections are state-ranked as species of special concern in Georgia. With the addition of these new records, the total now is 531 vouchered vascular plant species for this national park.
4032890|Growth and mortality rates were determined for Acer saccharinum L., Fraxinus pennsylvanica Marsh, Celtis occidentalis L., Ulmus americana L., U. rubra Muhl., and Quercus alba L. over a 3 year period in an east-central Illinois streamside forest. Tree size and the distance to the nearest larger tree accounted for significant portions of the variance in growth rates. Flood frequency apparently has no significant effect on growth rates. Mortality rates were much higher in the suppressed crown class than in larger trees.
4032650|This floristic study treats the 2 species of Corydalis and the 3 species of Fumaria native or adventive to Florida. A key to the genera and keys to the species are given. Distribution within the state is shown by maps based on county records. Corydalis flavula (Raf.) DC., Fumaria capreolata L., and F. parviflora Lam. are newly reported for the state.
4033179|A fifth subspecies of Sarracenia rubra Walter having a small disjunct range in the western Florida panhandle is herein described.
4033150|Located in the northeastern Piedmont of Georgia, Elbert County is triangular in shape, bounded on the east by the Savannah River, and to the west and south by the Broad River. A floristic survey is reported with a checklist of vascular plants, listing 826 species and varieties within 428 genera, which includes 22 species of pteridophytes, and 3 species of gymnosperms. Phytogeographical implications are considered. The study demonstrates a surprisingly high diversity of species for a Piedmont county.
4032813|The taxonomic status of Vernonia illinoensis Gleason has been a persistent problem for taxonomists. Artificial hybridization experiments, herbarium studies, and analyses of local population samples are used to demonstrate the hybrid origin of the taxon. Evidence in this study suggests that V. illinoensis is a natural hybrid between V. missurica and V. gigantea and should be treated as such taxonomically.
4034247|The woody vegetation of three forest communities dominated by Quercus muhlenbergii Engelm. (yellow chestnut oak) were studied. All sites examined were located on steep, south-facing hillsides in central Illinois. Yellow chestnut oak accounted for 35-50% of the basal area and density on these sites, had an importance value of 72 to 115 (possible 200), dominated most diameter classes, and was common as small diameter trees. Other overstory components included other oak species, along with hickories (Carya spp.), and ashes (Fraxinus spp.). Dominant understory species were black haw (Viburnum prunifolium L.), American elm (Ulmus americana L.), red elm (U. rubra Muhl.), redbud (Cercis canadensis L.), and hackberry (Celtis occidentalis L.). Canopy openings caused by fire, death of veteran trees, and tree falls, should allow this cover type to be self-perpetuating.
4034271| A survey of the bryophyte flora, Anthocerotophyta (hornworts), Marchantiophyta (liverworts), and Bryophyta (mosses) of Jefferson County, Ohio was conducted from 1998 to 2004. Jefferson County (106,416 ha) is located in the unglaciated Allegheny Plateau region. Its eastern border is the Ohio River. Approximately 20% of the county has been mined for coal since the early 1900's, and 29% has been cleared for agriculture. Seventeen (17) species of liverworts and 1 species of hornwort were found. Jefferson County records for moss species increased from 0 to 115. The moss flora of Jefferson County is compared to that of other Ohio counties using Srenson's similarity index (SI). 
4032956|Vegetation-environment relationships in the Salt Pond Mountain area of south-western Virginia were analyzed with techniques of indirect gradient analysis. Results of Bray-Curtis ordination indicate that environmental factors related to three major complex-gradients exert a controlling influence on the pattern of vegetation. Factors related to a moisture complex-gradient are considered to have the greatest influence on community composition, whereas factors related to elevation and soil parent materials have a secondary effect.
4033194|Sarracenia oreophila is reported from Towns County in northeastern Georgia. Although an early Neisler collection, which lacked locality data, was cited from Taylor County, Georgia, and a single specimen which was not in flower was reported from Tennessee, this Towns County station is believed to represent the only known extant population of this taxon outside of Alabama. Notes on habitat, associated species, and vitality of the population are presented.
4033112|Taxonomic and distributional data for 21 species of Solanaceae reported to be native. naturalized or escaped in Ohio, are based on an examination of nearly 1900 specimens from 16 herbaria. Distribution maps are provided for 18 species reported from two or more counties. Keys to genera and selected species, designed for identification of dried material, are also included.
4032311|In 1936 a total of 145 plots were established and the trees recorded by species and diameter. The same plots were re-inventoried in 1967 and changes which had taken place were analyzed. The death of American chestnut during this period and its replacement by oaks and Virginia pine constitute the most dramatic changes. Important changes in density, basal area and importance value occurred in several other taxa.
4034191|Scrub vegetation reestablishes poorly in former agricultural sites. Between 1992 and 1999, we followed the survival and growth of scrub oaks, saw palmetto, and other species planted in a former citrus grove on scrub soil adjacent to extant scrub and also followed the changes in community composition. Oaks, (Quercus chapmanii, Q. geminata, Q. myrtifolia) were planted in the summer of 1992 with a second planting in the summer of 1993. Serenoa repens, Pinus elliottii, and ericads were planted in the summer of 1993. We relocated marked plants annually and determined survival and height growth. Mortality of oaks was concentrated in the first year. Survival and growth of Q. geminata were significantly greater than that of Q. myrtifolia or Q. chapmanii. Survival was lower but differences between species were similar in the second cohort of oaks. Initial survival of Serenoa was high but declined due to rooting by feral pigs. Serenoa grew slowly. Survival of Pinus elliottii was high and growth rapid. Soils (0-15 cm layer) of the former grove differed from that of adjacent, intact scrub, with higher pH, NO
4032969|Ophioglossum dendroneuron E. P. St. John was described from Florida, and characterized by having a complex venation pattern with small areoles contained within larger areoles. W. Wagner and Mesler interpreted this as a distinct species; however, the present investigation alters this conception and the taxon O. dendroneuron is reinterpreted as a form of O. nudicaule L. fils. Extensive field and culture chamber observations show a transition from small-bladed forms with simple venation involving few or no included veinlets, to large-bladed forms with complex venation involving numerous included veinlets, some of which join to form secondary areoles. The latter bireticulate condition is transitional toward the venation found in O. engelmannii Prantl.
4033826|Spiraea virginiana Britton is a Southern Appalachian endemic that occurs exclusively in the southern Blue Ridge and Appalachian Plateau physiographic provinces. Although S. virginiana exhibits great phenotypic plasticity, it is allopatric with the taxon it most closely resembles, S. betulifolia Pallas var. corymbosa (Raf.) Wenzig. The two species have several overlapping phenotypic characters and are both quite variable but may be generally distinguished by leaf and flower characters, plant size, habitat, and distribution. Character states and general distribution are given for both species and detailed distribution is given for S. virginiana.
41301576|Over the past several decades, naturally occurring populations of Fraser fir (Abies fraseri) in the Black Mountains of North Carolina have been heavily impacted by both direct and indirect anthropogenic disturbances, including logging and logging-associated fires, and high mortality rates due to the balsam woolly adelgid (Adelges piceae) (BWA). The decline in Fraser fir is worrisome because it serves as a foundation species of the spruce-fir forests of the Southern Appalachian Mountains. Our objectives for this research were to: 1) characterize the current status of Fraser fir trees with respect to potential population decline, as identified by the regenerationmortality hypothesis, by using stand structure and infestation levels, 2) determine the influence of slope, elevation, aspect, and disturbance history on stand structure, mortality, and BWA infestation level, and 3) examine broad trends of Fraser fir cover change caused by BWA over a 60 year period by using repeat aerial photography. We conducted detailed field surveys of Fraser fir trees throughout the Black Mountains using 44 circular plots. Analysis of repeat aerial and ground photographs revealed a decline in Fraser fir cover > 60% from 1954 to 1988, followed by regeneration from 1988 to 2006. Our results indicate that Fraser fir stands at higher elevations are currently in a state of recovery, whereas Fraser fir stands at lower elevations have the potential to become increasingly susceptible to BWA-induced mortality in the future. Our results call attention to the significant impact of direct and indirect anthropogenic disturbance upon Fraser fir stand structure, but also provide evidence for the ability of an imperiled ecosystem to recover from such activity.
4033552|Seven hundred and seven forest stands dominated by Quercus, Carya, and Castanea species from 32 states in eastern North America were classified into eight forest community types; (1) Pinus palustris-Quercus laevis sandhill community, (2) southern mixed hardwoods, (3) Quercus alba, (4) Quercus prinus, (5) Quercus stellata-Quercus marilandica, (6) Quercus macrocarpa-Quercus muehlenbergii, (7) Pinus rigida-Quercus coccinea pine barrens, and (8) Castanea dentata. Several of the above may be represented by several phases. No real evidence was found for a regional oak-hickory forest. A better designation would be oak or mixed oak forests for what formerly has been called oak-hickory forests.
4032682|Rock face vegetation, that of ledges and crevices, occurring in the mountains of western South Carolina, was studied during the summer of 1976. Eleven precipitous granitic habitats were sought out and investigated using rappeling techniques. The data accumulated serve as baseline criteria for these lithophytic and chasmophytic communities, as nothing similar to this had been done in the South Carolina mountains and only a few studies have been carried out elsewhere. Fifty-three genera and sixty-three species were recorded. The principal dominants are Selaginella tortipila, Krigia montana, Danthonia spicata, and Panicum tennesseense. Their dominance was determined on the basis of percent frequency and density.
4033430|We present here a comprehensive list of 331 algal taxa (phytoplankton and littoral) reported from Mountain Lake since 1930. The total derived from 11 earlier investigations, Jervis, and our continuous 33-month (1985-87) study includes Chlorophyceae (54%), Cyanophyceae (13.8%), Bacillariophyceae (7.5%), Dinophyceae (7.0%), Chrysophyceae (6.0%), Euglenophyceae (4.9%), Cryptophyceae (4.0%), Charophyceae (1.5%), Xanthophyceae (1.0%), and Chloromonadophyceae (0.3%).
4033553|Species diversity was determined for 53 woody plant communities within the Trinity River Basin, Texas, using the Shannon-Weiner Diversity Index. Trees with diameters of 1 cm or greater at about 1.4 m above ground were measured. Community species diversity was correlated with a precipitation gradient associated with the basin. The general hypothesis that community species diversity increases with lessening stress was substantiated. Less moist upper basin and the more moist lower basin and swamp communities had lower species diversity values than the moist mid-basin communities.
4033122|A survey was made of the vascular flora at 36 sites in the area of lower Pool 26, Mississippi and Illinois rivers. A total of 239 taxa representing 73 families was recorded. Thirty-three plants from Jersey, Calhoun, and Madison counties in Illinois not previously listed as occurring in these counties in published material are noted. Boltonia asteroides (L.) L'Her. var. decurrens (Torr. and Gray) Engelm., a nationally threatened species, was found in Illinois, while a plant found in Missouri, Chelone obliqua L. var. speciosa Pennell & Wherry, is listed as a status undetermined species throughout that state.
4034303|The vascular flora of Claridon Prairie, a 2.2 ha prairie remnant prairie in Marion County, Ohio was studied quantitatively during the growing season of 1999. Panicum virgatum had the highest importance value, followed by Solidago canadensis, Silphium terebinthinaceum, Carex species, Spartina pectinata, and Schizachyrium scoparium. A total of 177 species were recorded between 1997 and 2002, consisting of 1 fern ally, 56 monocots and 120 dicots. Of this total, 12 were woody species and 29 introduced exotics, 1 of which was woody. The Floristic Quality Assessment Index (FQAI) for the site is 46.10, indicating sufficient conservatism and richness to be considered significant from a statewide perspective. The flora includes 5 statelisted rare plants.
4032555|Cheilanthes castanea is reported for the first time from Virginia and West Virginia. The nearest previously known stations are in Oklahoma. A distribution map and list of specimens and a key to C. castanea, C. lanosa, and C. tomentosa are included.
4033288|Twelve plant communities ranging from dry-mesic bottomland forest to sand-stone and igneous glades occur in Hawn State Park, which is on the eastern edge of the Ozark Plateau in southeastern Missouri. Seven vascular plant species which are rare or endangered in Missouri occur within the area. Geum virginianum, a taxon previously unreported in the state, occurs in the area.
4033116|Cyperus difformis L. (Cyperaceae), one of the world's worst weeds, appears to be extending its range in the southeastern United States. Since its discovery in southeastern Virginia in 1934, presence of C. difformis in ten counties or parishes in five southeastern states has been documented. It has occurred in at least eight habitat types and long distance dispersal by bird appears probable.
4033388|The following includes nomenclatural transactions and commentary preliminary to a summary of the Leguminosae: Mimosoideae for the Vascular Flora of the South-eastern United States. Genera discussed are Albizia, Leucaena and Schrankia. New combinations include: Schrankia microphylla (Dryander) Macbride var. floridana (Chapman) Isely, and Schrankia nuttallii (DC. ex Britt. & Rose) Standl. var. hystricina (Small ex Britt. & Rose) Isely.
4032355|Field and herbarium studies have revealed these new distribution records: Chelone cuthbertii is added to the known flora of South Carolina, and C. lyoni to that of West Virginia. C. lyoni has been collected in a second county (Pickens) in South Carolina. Recent collections have been made from the type localities of C. obliqua vars. obliqua and erwiniae. C. glabra var. chlorantha is a new combination.
4033215|Thirty systematically arranged sample units were established in each of 8 cut and uncut plots in bottomland and upland forests to determine the effects of cutting and physiographic site on understory vegetation. Total percent cover was significantly higher on cut plots than uncut plots in bottomland hardwoods 19 months after cutting, but no difference in cover was found in upland hardwoods 8 months after cutting. Species diversity did not differ between cut and uncut plots, but it did increase from slough to ridge sites in bottomland hardwoods. Reorganization of vegetation structure and establishment of new taxa were more pronounced on ridge than on slough sites in bottomland hardwoods. Plant response to cutting was relatively uniform over all sites in upland hardwoods. Since species exhibited site preferences, and in some cases these preferences changed with cutting, future studies of understory composition and structure should be stratified by physiographic site.
4033498|The Blackwater Ecologic Preserve includes the northernmost stand of Pinus palustris in the United States as well as several associated species unique in Virginia. The following two relict pyrophytic communities are recognized: Pinus palustris/Quercus laevis/mixed ericads on a sand ridge and Pinus serotina/Pinus serotina-Quercus laevis/mixed ericads or Pyxidanthera barbulata on a moist sand flat. Other communities include a mixed oak-pine slope, a black gum swamp, a river bluff, and an alluvial flat. Vegetation analyses of each community are presented. The history of botanical exploration, presettlement vegetation of the area, and importance of Pinus palustris in Virginia are discussed.
4032384|Mississippi marshes were sampled during 1968 and 1969 by line transect and list count quadrats and the composition of vascular plants throughout the salinity gradient was determined in three estuarine systems. Profile diagrams were prepared to illustrate lateral zonation of the plant communities. Marsh acreage, measured by planimeter from survey maps, was determined. Organic production of the vascular marsh plants in Mississippi was estimated. Present and projected man-made changes in the marshes are discussed. Some observations on composition and zonation of plant colonization on spoilbanks and landfills are presented.
4032607|Two hundred and fourteen species of lichens are reported from Maryland, most for the first time.
41819479|Historical records indicate that Matelea decipiens (Asclepiadaceae), oldfield milkvine or climbing milkweed, is known from Jackson, Saline, and Williamson counties in southern Illinois, where it is listed as endangered. Although a previous unvouchered occurrence has been noted in the Illinois Natural Heritage database, a recent collection from Monroe County, reported herein, officially extends the range north and west in the state.
4033578|The vascular flora of the Roy E. Larsen Sandylands Sanctuary was surveyed during a 16 month period. A catalogue is included of the 544 species in 105 families that were collected on the 881.4 ha preserve located in the Big Thicket region of Texas. Eight woody stands representing variation in the woody communities found on the preserve were analyzed for composition. Density, frequency, basal area, and importance values for each species in the stands within the woody communities are presented.
20433890|The vascular plants of Tennessee's Prentice Cooper State Forest and Wildlife Management Area (PCSFWMA) were gathered from the growing seasons of 1998 through 1999 and the summer of 2005. The ca. 10,300 ha tract of eastern deciduous forest comprises 137 families, 536 genera, and 1,070 species or lesser taxa. Five hundred and eighteen new county records were documented as well as two notable state records, Galium uniflorum and Macrothelypteris torresiana. Nineteen taxa of either state or federal listing were documented or examined. PCSFWMA has 192 introduced species, comprising 17.9% of the total flora and constituting 56.6% of Tennessee's listed invasive exotic pest species. Association coefficients of seven southeastern Appalachian floras were compared to elucidate several floristic similarities and dissimilarities.
4034181|A survey of vascular flora was completed at wetland sites in the Tulula Creek floodplain in Graham County, North Carolina as part of a comprehensive ecological study. The vegetation survey was conducted in forested and unforested fen and floodplain wetlands in 1994 and 2001, and in a forested floodplain wetland in 2001 in order to document plant species occurring in these rare mountain habitats. A total of 107 taxa representing 52 families were identified. More than 66% of the taxa also have been reported in other non-alluvial wetlands in the region; about 31% of the taxa identified in the Tulula Creek wetland complex have been reported in non-alluvial wetlands in West Virginia and about 12% have been reported in the non-alluvial wetlands of northeastern United States and adjacent Canada. This paper documented the vascular plant communities within this rare wetland complex before intensive stream restoration began in 2001.
4032508|Twelve morphological characters of loblolly pine, shortleaf pine and putative hybrids were evaluated to determine their utility in taxonomic classification. The sample size required to estimate the within-tree means for each character was computed, the degree of difference in phenotypic expression of characters by the taxa was evaluated and correlations among characters were examined. The traits which appeared best suited were needle length, fascicle sheath length, number of needles per fascicle, terminal bud width, cone length and seed weight. Characters deemed inappropriate were needle width, number of stomatal rows, number of stomates per cm in rows, terminal bud length, axillary scale width and expanded cone width.
41819464|Forest fragmentation continues to increase throughout the United States and many studies show a trend toward taxonomic homogenization in fragments. Characterizing the species composition and diversity of remaining forest fragments and identifying factors influencing composition and diversity can help to inform management practices and aid in setting conservation priorities. Because influencing factors tend to be site-specific, studies of local and regional fragment community composition are needed. We studied forest community composition and diversity in four forest fragments of the Shenandoah Valley, Virginia. We found significant (p < 0.05) differences in tree species diversity (H') as well as abundance of exotic species across forest fragments. In addition, results of nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMS) showed that there were significant differences in species composition among fragments. Soil properties and stand age, in addition to presence of exotic species, were the most important factors influencing differences in tree species composition. Older fragments on high quality soils, with low abundances of exotic species and low levels of disturbance, were more diverse and had greater abundances of economically and ecologically valuable overstory species such as Quercus spp., Carya spp., Nyssa sylvatica and Liriodendron tulipifera. Younger fragments on clay/sandy soils with higher disturbance levels had higher abundances of exotic invasive species, such as Ailanthus altissima and Microstegium vimineum, and lower abundances of latesuccessional native hardwood tree species. Based on seedling and sapling species composition, we predict that these forest fragments are likely to change in species composition with mortality of overstory trees.
4032609|An oak-hickory forest located in Walnut Point State Park, Douglas County, Illinois was surveyed. The 31 acre woodlot represented the best remaining example of an upland, streamside forest in the upper part of the Embarras River watershed. A total of 35 woody species occur in the woods, of which 16 are understory trees and shrubs. Trees (dbh>4 in) have an average density of 105 stems/acre and an average basal area of 90 ft
4032894|Galium pedemontanum (Bell.) All. (Rubiaceae), which was introduced into North America from Eurasia, is currently increasing its geographical distribution on this continent. The history of its range extensions and its present distribution are documented. The species' ultimate distribution in America is inferred from the study of the climatic and edaphic values to which the European populations are tolerant, and, by analogy, is taken as the overlap of the geographical distributions of the tolerated climates and soils as they occur in North America.
4032582|It was the purpose of this study to (a) make a systematic survey of the algae of a fresh-water pond for one full year and, (b) to try to associate weekly and seasonal variations (periodicity) with certain ecological factors. A third objective was realized although was not originally planned and this was the data on fauna observed during the investigation. Factors selected for this investigation were chemical (N, P, K, Mg, and Ca, pH and O
4032503|An inventory of the woody vegetation of a coppice forest located on the Shelbyville moraine in east-central Illinois shows that the oaks and hickories are the two most important species groups present. These two genera account for 70% of the 226 trees per acre and 70% of the average stand basal area of 74 sq. ft. per acre. The most important species in the woods is white oak, followed by black oak, sugar maple, red oak, black walnut, pignut hickory, bitternut hickory, slippery elm, shagbark hickory, and mockernut hickory in order of Importance Value. A total of 47 woody species is found in the woods, of which 22 are understory trees and shrubs. Coppice growth accounted for over 124 stems per acre and for nearly 50% of the stand basal area. Species showing the largest amount of coppice growth are white and black oak. In both, the number of stems that are of sprout origin is 75% or more. Other species with extensive coppice growth are pignut hickory, black walnut, red oak, mockernut hickory, shagbark hickory, and bitternut hickory.
4032507|New collections of specimens from the three northern Virginia Fall Belt counties of Fairfax, Arlington and Prince William have revealed 183 taxa not previously recorded by Massey (1961) and in addition to the previous paper of new records for this area (Bradley, 1972). Collections of Ammania coccinea Rottboell and Vernonia altissima Nuttall are apparently the first from the state. Some other rare taxa collected are Limnobium spongia (Bosc.) Steud., Floerkia proserpinacoides Willd., Erigenia bulbosa (Michaux) Nuttall, Scirpus purshianus Fernald, Agrimonia rostellata Wallroth, Hypericum astragalum P. Adams and Robson and Panax trifolium L.
41058094|Vascular plant checklists (floras) supply key information for biodiversity studies by providing a comprehensive picture of the floristic composition of a specific study area. A bibliography of floras conducted within the state of North Carolina was compiled. Eighty-six floras were completed within North Carolina between the years 1834 and 2009. Floras conducted in North Carolina cover areas of varying size, from small islands and state parks to entire counties. These studies include journal articles, government publications, technical reports and Master's theses. More than half of the flora citations were not published in scientific journals and were often difficult to discover or obtain.
4034121|New River Gorge National River includes 85.3 km (53.0 mi) of the New River and occupies over 25,123 ha (62,080 ac) in Summers, Raleigh, and Fayette Counties of southern West Virginia. The vascular flora was surveyed from September 1992 through October 1994. A total of 909 taxa of vascular plants representing 448 genera and 131 families was recorded. Seventy-nine percent of the taxa recorded are native to West Virginia. Currently 1342 vascular plant taxa have been documented from the New River Gorge as a result of this work as well as the works of Grafton and McGraw, and Phillips. A total of 27 taxa reported in this study have some special designation of rarity in West Virginia. Of the 27 rare taxa, 13 are new records for the New River Gorge. Fifty new populations of these rare taxa were discovered. Eleven natural plant communities were described according to the dominant species as well as certain recurring physical features. A comparison of the flora of New River Gorge with the flora of other river gorges in the central Appalachian Mountains indicates that New River Gorge appears to be, floristically, one of the most diverse river gorges in the central and southern Appalachians.
41301581|The vascular flora of Crenshaw County, Alabama, was surveyed from 1987 to 2010. A total of 1171 taxa (species and hybrids) in 565 genera from 150 families are reported. Twenty-five taxa represented by herbarium specimens from Crenshaw County were not recollected during this study. The Inventory List of Rare, Threatened and Endangered Plants, Animals and Natural Communities of Alabama as compiled by the Alabama Natural Heritage Program contains 23 of the species collected. Approximately 18 percent of the flora (213 species), are considered non-indigenous. Families with the largest number of taxa were Asteraceae (158), Poaceae (135), Fabaceae (87), Cyperaceae (61), Rosaceae (35) and Liliaceae (31).
4033664|The vascular flora of Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie, Charleston County, South Carolina, was sampled one growing season after being struck by Hurricane Hugo. The combined flora of both sites (ca. 27 ha) consists of 223 species, 161 genera, and 63 families; 69 species occur at Fort Sumter and 218 species occur at Fort Moultrie, which is larger and consists of more varied habitats. The annotated checklist includes the locality and habitat in which each species occurs, frequency of occurrence, new County records, and pertinent synonyms.
4033490| The synonymy of Eupatorium  truncatum, the hybrid of E. perfoliatum and E. serotinum, is discussed. Eupatorium resinosum var. kentuckiense is recognized as conspecific with E.  truncatum. A key is provided for E. serotinum, E. perfoliatum, E. resinosum, and E.  truncatum. A description and a summary of the distribution of E.  truncatum are provided. 
4033846|The decrease in nitrification during succession was investigated in the Piedmont of Maryland. Stands of vegetation identified as early, mid, and late successional stages were monitored for available nitrogen and nitrifying bacteria throughout the growing season. Potential rates of nitrification in soils from the three stands were examined by laboratory incubations. Limitation of nitrification by lack of soil nutrients or by allelochemicals released by late successional species were evaluated. Soils from the early successional stand had higher NO
4034333|I conducted a survey in the piedmont and coastal plain of South Carolina during 2000-2003 that documented 23 population sites in eleven counties for the recently described Rhododendron eastmanii (May-white azalea). Populations were typically located on north-facing slopes of rich, mature forests above streams dominated by oaks, hickories, and other deciduous trees. Soils had a loamy sand to sandy loam texture and were circumneutral to slightly acidic. This species is more widespread than originally thought, and botanists in Georgia and North Carolina should look for the presence of this species.
4032917|A checklist and discussion of the herbaceous, vascular plants of cedar glades occurring on Silurian limestone in Bullitt County, Kentucky, are given. Seventy-seven species including two cedar glade endemics (Viola egglestonii and Leavenworthia exigua var. laciniata) and several other species characteristic of cedar glade floras were collected from the Bullitt County glades.
4033813| A former chestnut-dominated forest community on the NW-facing slope of Bald Knob on Salt Pond Mountain in southwestern Virginia has been studied previously in 1932 and 1982/83. In the present study, short-term changes in the composition of the tree (stems 10 cm DBH) and small tree (stems 2.5 cm but <10 cm DBH) strata since 1983 were assessed and growth-trend patterns in red oak (Quercus rubra L.) following the elimination of chestnut from the canopy by chestnut blight (Cryphonectria parasitica [Murr.] Barr) were examined. During the past decade, the composition of the canopy has changed very little relative to the dramatic changes of the previous 50 years. Analysis of basal area increment growth patterns of 26 red oaks at least 79 years old clearly shows a dramatic release that began in the mid-1920s. 
4033074|Agastache scrophulariaefolia, Arenaria godfreyi, Ceratophyllum muricatum, Crepis setosa, Fimbristylis tomentosa, Glyceria pallida, Solidago ptarmicoides, and Sporobolus junceus are reported as state records. Several other infrequently encountered taxa are presented, mostly as county records for Tennessee or as important range extensions. Additional information is given for Comptonia peregrina, Cyperus engelmannii, Helenium brevifolium, Lythrum salicaria, and Potamogeton amplifolius, all of which are rare plants in the state and had not been observed for nearly a half century or more.
4033644|A stump treatment was applied to the cut stubs of Chinese wisteria (Wisteria sinensis Sweet). Three herbicides, applied full strength, and a cut treatment were selected for trial and each treatment replicated 10 times: AMS [ammonium sulfamate] 95% soluble crystal (Ammate), isopropylamine salt of glyphosate [N-(phosphonomethyl) glycine] 480 g/L (Roundup), and fosamine ammonium [ammonium ethyl carbamoylphosphonate] 480 g/L (Krenite). Final evaluation was made one year after treatment, but evaluation at ten months after treatment would have been satisfactory. All three herbicides were effective.
4033589|The spring and autumn seed bank in a Fraxinus caroliniana dominated floodplain swamp of the St. Johns River in Florida was examined. Soil cores were collected at 14 microsite types. The seed bank was dominated by the single species Ulmus americana in spring and Cephalanthus occidentalis in autumn. Mean density of seeds in both the top 5 cm of substrate and at 5-10 depth decreased significantly from spring to autumn, principally due to the germination of Ulmus americana seeds. The highest viable seed density was on stump microsites (611 seeds/m
4034057|Alliaria petiolata (M. Bieb.) Cavara & Grande (garlic mustard) is a non-indigenous member of the Brassicaceae that is invading woodlands throughout eastern North America. Previous work has demonstrated that this species is having a negative effect on the diversity of understory communities and is actively displacing native species. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the extent to which allelopathy might be acting as the mechanism of interference. Extracts of garlic mustard root and shoot tissues were applied to seeds and seedlings of four target species used as bioassays: radish, winter rye, hairy vetch, and lettuce. While seed germination rates varied by species and extract concentration, total germination after 5-7 d was largely unaffected by any extract concentration. Only radish seeds treated with the most concentrated root solution exhibited a depressed germination relative to the water control. Likewise, seedling biomass was generally unaffected by any extract treatment. Only shoot biomass for rye was significantly depressed with the highest concentration of leaf extract. Our data provide little evidence that allelopathy is involved in the invasive success or community interference of this non-indigenous species, even though the Brassicaceae are well known to possess potentially biologically active compounds with allelopathic effects.
27742924|The inflorescences of kudzu, Pueraria montana, and the groundnut, Apios americana, have extrafloral nectaries at the base of each multiple-flowered fascicle. In P. montana, the EFNs lie under the lateral flowers and appear to become active and accessible only when the covering flower abscises and drops. In A. americana, there is one EFN per fascicle, representing an aborted secondary short-shoot. Five species of ants were observed visiting P. montana EFNs and six species at A. americana EFNs (four of which were found on both). EFN-related behaviors varied among ant species, but not within ant species between plants. The location and timing of these heretofore overlooked EFNs suggests a role in protecting early developing seeds. Thus, the low seed set reported for P. montana in its introduced range on the one hand and for A. americana in cultivation on the other might be explained by a shortage of ant mutualists in these atypical situations.
20433902|Ordination and cluster analysis of 90 sampled bottomland forest stands yielded 12 groups of stands (community types). Stands and groups were arranged in a Y-shaped pattern across the ordination. A Quercus nigra group and a Q. phellos group occurred along a "less flooded" arm of the Y. A Populus deltoides-Acer negundo group, an A. negundo group, and a Celtis laevigata-Carya illinoensis-Ulmus americana group occurred along the "often flooded, flowing water" arm of the Y, with the last group overlapping a Q. texana-Fraxinus pennsylvanica group near the middle of the ordination. A Liquidambar styraciflua group extended between the "less flooded" and the "flowing water" arms of the Y. The "often flooded, standing water" base of the Y had a Taxodium distichum group and a Nyssa aquatica-Planera aquatica-T. distichum group, with Cephalanthus occidentalis important in the understory in both groups. Two overlapping groups at the center of the ordination tied together the three arms of the Y. These were a Q. lyrata group and a Carya aquatica-Forestiera acuminata group. All groups except the Acer negundo group contained stands from multiple locations in two different states, suggesting generality of these combinations of species in this region.
20433977|A qualitative inventory of the vascular plant species of Mount Jefferson State Natural Area and contiguous areas was conducted from fall 2004-summer 2008. The 368 ha site is the most southeastern peak within the Amphibolite Mountains Macrosite of northwestern North Carolina. The study area is near equidistant from the towns of Jefferson and West Jefferson in central Ashe County, and lies within the Blue Ridge Range of the Southern Section of the Blue Ridge Physiographic Province. Nine major communities were recognized, including a High Elevation Mafic Glade, which is only the second documentation of such a community in North Carolina or globally. Vascular plants consist of 706 specific and infraspecific taxa in 383 genera from 109 families. Plants represented were one Equisetophyta, six Lycopodiophyta, twenty-four Polypodiophyta, five Pinophyta, and 670 Magnoliophyta. The largest families in taxa richness were the Asteraceae (96), Poaceae (82), Rosaceae (37), Cyperaceae (32), Fabaceae (30), and Lamiaceae (25). One-hundred and sixty taxa (22.7%) were exotic. Thirty-four taxa were on the "NC Watch List" and an additional sixteen were regarded as "Significantly Rare" in North Carolina. One hundred and twenty-nine taxa were Ashe County records. Eight taxa were documented for the first time in North Carolina.
4033964|Site conditions and vegetation of five high elevation areas in West Virginia historically considered grass balds were examined. All occurred on rounded peaks or ridges, with south or southwest facing slopes, above 1150 m, in the transition zone between red spruce (Picea rubens) and northern hardwood forests. Mountain oat grass (Danthonia compressa) was the dominant herb, although other grasses were abundant. At two sites, forbs and ferns were codominant. Blueberries (Vaccinium spp.) were dominant in the shrub strata at all sites. Comparison of the vegetation of West Virginia sites to five grass balds studied by Gilbert (1954) in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) revealed the following differences: (1) balds of the two regions shared some dominants, but West Virginia balds were more diverse in the herbaceous layer, with lower levels of dominance. (2) West Virginia balds also had a more highly developed shrub strata. Recent studies of Gilbert's GSMNP sites in 1958, 1964, and 1979 have revealed a significant shrub and tree invasion, and a decrease in dominance of grasses. These changes suggest that Gilbert's GSMNP balds are becoming more similar to the West Virginia sites. All of these grass balds are successional communities, although succession on West Virginia balds is presently confined to shrub species.
41416198|An invasion by Phellodendron amurense Rupr. (Amur corktree) provided an opportunity to examine the subsequent changes in the forest composition that took place since the invasion began. Through the removal of 278 individual trees of P. amurense, tree ring analysis allowed a re-creation of the forest over the 46 yr since the species first arrived at the site. This analysis shows that P. amurense demonstrates the ability to invade additional areas and, over time, increases both its relative density and relative dominance. Through an analysis of both living and standing dead individual trees, P. amurense appears to be poised to continue its gradually increased influence over the forest. This highlights the need for better recognition of the species as an invasive plant, and a more vigorous effort to control existing invasions.
4034335|Pyrus calleryana, a very commonly planted ornamental tree species, is documented as an escape from cultivation in the District of Columbia and 152 counties or parishes in 25 states, and is reported as new to California, Michigan, Missouri, New Jersey, and West Virginia. Evidence is presented that the species is rapidly becoming invasive in much of its horticultural range in at least the eastern United States. Some of the escaped individuals (from 14 counties or parishes in 11 states) appear to be of hybrid origin, perhaps between callery pear and P. betulifolia or P. bretschneideri. Callery pear often produces thorny thickets as it escapes into marginal and disturbed areas, and appears to be reproducing readily in the wild.
4034205|Asexual reproduction has been observed to be more frequently associated with marginal habitats or with higher levels of disturbance. Here we examined frequencies of clonal reproduction across populations of Fagus grandifolia with varying levels of disturbance and habitat quality. We used ISSRs to identify clonal genotypes at each of five sites. Three of the sites were typical temperate habitats with relatively low densities of stems and were below 1,100 m, and two sites were above 1,370 m, possessed a high density of stems, and were characteristic of sub-alpine beech gap populations. The frequency of clonal reproduction varied substantially across sites and appears to be greater where disturbance is more severe.
4032870|Colonies of Vernonia angustifolia and V. glauca and their putative hybrids were studied in west-central Georgia. Extrapolations from morphological and flavonoid data suggested that the hybrids were backcrosses with V. angustifolia rather than F
4033796| Zigadenus densus and Z. leimanthoides are primarily southeastern Coastal Plain species, and both are rare in some parts of their range. Seeds have linear, underdeveloped embryos that are physiologically dormant; thus, they have morphophysiological dormancy. Cold stratification was the only requirement for embryo growth and dormancy break. Embryos in seeds of Z. leimanthoides grew from 0.43 to 2.47 mm in length during 9 weeks of cold stratification at 5C. Nondormant seeds have a low temperature requirement for germination, and seeds that stayed at 5C for 12 weeks began to germinate. In a nontemperature-controlled greenhouse, the first germination of seeds sown on 7 July was recorded on 28 December, at which time they had been exposed to 1,048 hours of cold stratifying temperatures (0-10C). Germination in the greenhouse peaked between 2 January and 6 February, when mean daily maximum and minimum air temperatures were 10.9 and 3.0C, respectively. In the field, dormancy break occurs during winter, and germination in late winter or early spring. No seeds germinated during the second germination season in the greenhouse, indicating that the species do not have the potential to form persistent seed banks. 
4033151|Alnus maritima has a limited and disjunct range consisting of one county in Delaware, three counties in Maryland on the Delmarva Peninsula, and two counties in Oklahoma near the Red River. Distribution maps were compiled from field and herbarium studies. A. maritima and A. serrulata are sympatric on the Delmarva Peninsula where they have an interesting ecological relationship, but in Oklahoma these two species occur in two different parts of the state. The "threatened species" status of Alnus maritima is discussed.
4033180|Analysis of herbarium material of Echium vulgare L. occurring in eastern North America yielded evidence against the existence of the two distinct varieties (or species) recognized in various floristic and revisionary treatments. Rather, the E. vulgare complex should be regarded as one polymorphic species with considerable random variation and numerous intergrading intermediates. Echium vulgare is much more common in eastern than western North America and occurs predominantly in limestone regions. In the East, it probably became established as a "weed" in the early to mid-nineteenth century.
41416206|Kosteletzkya pentacarpos (L.) Ledeb. (syn. = Kosteletzkya virginica (L.) Presl ex A. Gray) has been treated as a single variable species or as a species including four varieties: K. virginica var. althaeifolia, var. aquilonia, var. smilacifolia, and var. virginica. The aim of this study was to test the validity of formally recognizing these putative infraspecific taxa with a statistical analysis of morphological data. Loans were received from 15 herbaria, for 1,114 specimens; 224 were selected. Measurements were taken from these 224 specimens for 42 characters and analyzed by canonical discriminant analysis, which recognized two dimensions. Var. smilacifolia and var. aquilonia were separated from the other two groupings and correctly predicted at 100%. Var. smilacifolia is morphologically distinct from the other taxa in having linear hastate leaves with reflexed linear lobes, an unbranched inflorescence, a slender stem, and a mostly entire leaf margin. A new combination is proposed: Kosteletzkya pentacarpos (L.) Ledeb. var. smilacifolia (Chapm.) S. N. Alexander. All other former putative infraspecific taxa are synonymous with Kosteletzkya pentacarpos var. pentacarpos.
4033166|The families of the Alismatidae occurring in Alabama include Alismataceae, Hydrocharitaceae, Juncaginaceae, Najadaceae, Potamogetonaceae, and Zannichelliaceae. A key to the taxa and, for each of the species, county dot distribution maps and characteristics are presented.
41416186|Dense stands of Arundinaria species, or canebrakes, once were a dominant landscape feature along floodplains of the southeastern United States. However, human activities have reduced canebrakes to fragmented remnants representing <2% of their extent prior to European settlement. Canebrake restoration thus is a top priority for preserving and improving wetland biodiversity in the United States. Successful restoration requires an understanding of factors influencing establishment of the two most common United States Arundinaria species; therefore, this greenhouse study examined effects of inundation on A. gigantea and A. tecta. Both Arundinaria species were subjected to 0, 2, 4, or 6 weeks of inundation under long-day, warm temperature growing season conditions. Plant growth, mean net photosynthesis (Pn), and stomatal conductance (Gs) were measured on a weekly basis, and at the conclusion of the experiment, above-and belowground biomass were measured. We found significant correlations of Pn and Gs with duration of flooding and duration of post-inundation recovery, as well as a significant interaction among time, species, and flood duration, with both species responding similarly to flooded conditions. Once flooding was arrested, both P n and G s rates were higher in A. tecta than A. gigantea; the same was true for growth rates across the duration of the study. In conclusion, A. tecta appeared to be more flood tolerant than A. gigantea, reflecting habitats in which these species are known to occur. Future canebrake restoration projects may benefit from this information on differential flooding tolerance in selecting restoration sites or restoration species, based on hydrologie conditions.
4033086|Clematis verticillaris, Corylus cornuta, Leptochloa uninervia, Lycopus amplectens, and Rosa acicularis are reported from Illinois for the first time. Recent collections for seven seldom encountered vascular plants are also cited.
27742909|The once dominant Arundinaria gigantea canebrake ecosystems have been reduced to fragmented populations less than 2% of their former extent resulting in a critically endangered ecosystem. Restoration of canebrakes is thus necessary for maintaining and enhancing biodiversity in the southeastern United States. Contemporary fragments of canebrakes are trapped between anthropogenic development and closed canopy forests. The goal of this study was to assess the impact of light intensity on rivercane growth and physiology in both laboratory and field studies and thereby enhance restoration success. A laboratory experiment was conducted to test light (partial shading and no shading) and nitrogen (0, 0.5, 5.0, 25, and 100 g/L) effects on seedling growth. Potential interaction occurred between light and nitrogen. Levels of nitrogen up to ten times the commercially recommended amount (0.5 g/L) significantly increased seedling growth when plants were grown under non-shaded conditions. A thinning site was established in an existing rivercane population and forest canopy was reduced 60% by girdling overstory trees. Number of new shoots and new shoot diameter were both increased by thinning. In addition, light response curves demonstrated that rivercane had a typical C3 light response pattern and field readings showed that rivercane maintained net photosynthetic activity throughout the dormant season. Results indicate that rivercane growth is enhanced with increased light levels. Reduction of overstory canopy is a potential management tool for enhancing survival and growth of existing populations.
4034219|Based on surveys of the literature and herbaria, including internet-available herbarium databases ("virtual herbaria"), plus recent collections, the lichen flora of the Piedmont of North Carolina, USA, consists of 338 taxa representing 110 genera in 41 families including three taxa of uncertain position. Broken down by habit, the flora is 32% crustose, 47% foliose, and 21% fruticose. This report presents the first lichen checklist for the North Carolina Piedmont. Twenty-two taxa are reported as new for the state, including the genera Gyalecta, Lichinia and Sarcogyne.
4032741|Houstonia purpurea var. montana is restricted to the summits of Roan Mountain, North Carolina-Tennessee, and Grandfather Mountain, North Carolina. Morphological and cytogenetic data support varietal rank for it instead of specific rank as H. montana. Correct authorships for these names are discussed. A recent finding of sterility in crosses between H. purpurea var. purpurea and var. montana could have been caused by ploidy differences alone rather than by more fundamental differences. Houstonia purpurea var. montana is subjected to increasing human encroachment and should be considered as threatened or endangered.
4033786|This paper includes a list of 339 native and introduced Tennessee grass taxa. Records are from herbaria at the authors' institutions, six other universities and colleges, and six other collections. Appropriate literature also is used. Extraneous and intraneous floristic elements are identified, and their distributional patterns are discussed and related to Tennessee's physiographic-floristic regions.
4033336|The flora of the Paynes Prairie basin, south of Gainesville, Florida, is representative of the freshwater marshes and prairies of northern Florida. Twenty dominant vascular plant species of the basin were selected for a one year phenological study. Included were 14 herbaceous perennials, one annual, and five woody species. The timing and duration of flowering, fruit dispersal, vegetative growth, and dormancy of selected populations were noted weekly from 16 June 1981 to 14 June 1982. A diversity of growth and reproductive patterns, pollination mechanisms, and perennating structures were observed. Also included are climatic information and a record of water levels on the basin during the period of study.
4033070|The subaerial algae, exclusive of the diatoms, from eight sandstone cliff localities in eastern Kentucky were investigated. A total of 34 taxa representing the Chlorophycophyta, Chrysophycophyta, Cyanochloronta, and Pyrrhophycophyta were recorded. Each of these localities, which exhibited a wide range of cliff aspect and amount of available moisture, supported a distinct algal flora.
23274396|Populations of naturalized mimosa (Albizia julibrissin Durazz., Fabaceae) are reported from 32 counties in the southern third of Illinois. Literature and field studies suggest a significant range expansion of this taxon within Illinois during the last 50 yr. Most populations occur in open areas or along roadsides and forest edges, but a high-quality loess hill prairie on the Mississippi River bluffs contains high densities of mimosa seedlings and saplings. Mimosa is expected to continue to spread into suitable habitat based on its long history of invasion.
41058090|Assessing the factors that may contribute to rarity in flowering plants is important in preserving biodiversity. One method of examining these factors is through comparisons of rare species to more common congeners. While these studies are fairly common, most focus on comparisons of intrinsic factors, such as growth and dispersal rates and other physical attributes. In contrast, this study examined the effects of extrinsic factors, specifically herbivory by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and competition with an invasive vine, Lonicera japnica, on a rare forest herb, Trillium reliquum and its more common congeners, Trillium maculatum and Trillium cuneatum. We used a factorial design involving deer exclusion and honeysuckle removal to determine effects on relative growth of rare and common trilliums. We found that a common trillium was more susceptible to herbivory than Deer also significantly reduced relative leaf area (a measure of growth) for all species, reduced the probability of subadult transitions to reproductives, and increased the probability of nonemergence in two sites. While deer had a significant effect in this study, there was no detectable effect of honeysuckle presence on growth for any species of trillium during this time period. Our results show that the long-term management of white-tailed deer will be important to the conservation of spring ephemeral herbs such as T. reliquum, T. cuneatum, and T. maculatum.
4033318|Woody and herbaceous vegetation were quantitatively sampled in sixteen red spruce (Picea rubens) stands in Highland County, Virginia. Sampled stands occurred at two basic locations 1) > 1200 m on ridges and 2) in swamps along stream valleys. Woody vegetation was similar to that of other spruce forests in the central Appalachians. At undisturbed sites, the herbaceous stratum was also typical of spruce forests. Size class distributions indicate both mature and immature communities are present. Field evidence and the available palynologic data suggest that modern spruce distribution is similar to its distribution before human influence. Red spruce abundance has been greatly affected by Quaternary climatic fluctuations and regional physiography.
4033297|The following 12 vascular plants are noted as new to the flora of Florida: Habranthus tubispathus, Cyperus reflexus, Scirpus deltarum, Trifurcia lahue subsp. caerulea, Juncus nodatus, Dracopis amplexicaulis, Euphorbia spathulata, Clinopodium gracile, Scutellaria ovata, Alchemilla microcarpa, Borreria densiflora, Antirrhinum orontium. Distributional information is provided for each plant and representative herbarium specimens are cited.
41416183|Multivariate analysis of vegetation and environmental variables from green pitcher plant (Sarracenia oreophila) bogs in northeast Alabama revealed three communities with unique species compositions and soil characteristics. Discriminant analysis of environmental variables revealed that A-horizon percent N, A and horizon pH, humus layer thickness, and B-horizon K (kg/ha) were significantly related to the communities. A Quercus rubra, Arundinaria appalachiana, Pinus echinata community was found on upland seepage bogs located exclusively on Lookout Mountain close to the rim of the Little River Canyon and scattered along perennial streams. A Quercus falcata, Diospyros virginiana, Rhododendron canescens community was found on both Lookout and Sand Mountain in flat broad swales bisected by ephemeral streams. A Rhexia virginica, Dichanthelium scoparium, Carex glaucescens community was found primarily on Sand Mountain in open flood prone areas.
4033787|The vascular flora occurring in the intertidal zone of Brent Marsh was surveyed during 1987-94. The muddy-peaty deposits that form the tidal shoreline of Brent Marsh lie in fresh to brackish waters of the Potomac River in Stafford County, Virginia. The microhabitats present in the intertidal zone of Brent Marsh were found to support a large diversity of primarily herbaceous species. One hundred twenty-one taxa are reported, of which five are endemic to the rare fresh to brackish intertidal habitat characteristic of large tidal river systems in the Chesapeake drainage.
24619734|A 3-yr study was conducted to determine effects from cutting shrubs that were shading a population of Xyris tennesseensis Kral inhabiting a calcareous seepage fen of the Ridge and Valley Ecoregion. Shrubs were cut to ground level on small plots and Xyris flowering, ramet numbers (a ramet is defined as a leaf-producing stem) and seedling numbers were monitored during three post-treatment seasons. Floral visitation was also documented to determine if shrub cutting increased the likelihood of floral visits by insects that might pollinate flowers. In addition, the seed bank of the site was described and quantified. Shrub cutting significantly increased flowering of Xyris on the site, but only for the first two seasons: by the third season flowering declined, likely caused by competition from other herbaceous species responding to the increased light levels. Shrub cutting also significantly increased seedling production, but no significant increase in the number of Xyris ramets was found. Floral visits were significantly more frequent to Xyris flowers located on cut plots. There was no Xyris seed bank. We conclude that cutting shrubs can stimulate Xyris reproduction for a short period but that long term management must balance this benefit with the resulting increased competition from other non-Xyris graminoids. Management of the fen should strive for a mosaic of microhabitats with varying degrees of woody vegetative cover and exposed mineral soil.
4033762|The vegetation, as recorded in the Bright Expedition linear survey of southern Middle Tennessee, was conducted during spring 1807 before white settlement. Thirty-five taxa (602 trees) were named in 502 miles of lines in a 1,205 square mile area of the southeastern Highland Rim and southern Central Basin. Agreement between surveyors was good for most species, but unexplained percentage differences occurred on lines across similar topography/soils/vegetation. Diameter distributions approximate those in the virgin Dick Cove nearby and median diameter exceeds those of commercial forests by four inches. Tree composition approximates that from modern inventories with mainly oak forests on the flat-rolling Rim, oak and mixed forests in the dissected Rim and outer Basin and oaks and redcedar prominent in the inner Basin. Composition of known upland community types is averaged in this small, linearly arranged sample set. Non-forest open areas, shrubby and areas of small growth occupied about 12 percent of the flat-rolling Rim; some of these were open barrens for which the area is well known.
4033995|Based on the examination of 1,400 specimens, descriptions and distributions are provided for the five taxa of Proserpinaca in the southeastern United States. Proserpinaca palustris var. palustris, P. intermedia and P. pectinata occur primarily in the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal plains, while P. palustris var. amblyogona occurs in the Mississippi embayment area and P. palustris var. crebra occurs throughout the Southeast.
4033350|The James River drains nearly a quarter of Virginia and traverses 483 km before entering the southern end of the Chesapeake Bay. It is the third largest tributary to the Bay. The river is tidal below the fall line and is bordered by wetlands. The present study examined tidal wetland floristics of four coastal plain counties along the lower James River. The study included nine sites: two estuarine emergent, three palustrine emergent, and four palustrine forested wetlands. Two hundred eighty-six species were found; 59 were previously unknown for one or more of these counties.
4033618|Hohenbuehelia aciculospora (Agaricales), Gloeomucro ventricosum and G. luteodiscus (Aphyllophorales) are described as new. The first is compared with Physalacria.
4032755|In middle Tennessee, five species of Viola were noted to be difficult to define or recognize, and were studied in the field and herbarium. A comparison of the leaf shapes, based on a study of length-wide ratios, indicated a gradual transition in ratios going from leaves that are definitely longer than broad to leaves that are slightly broader than long. A search for introgressive hybridization was conducted, and although two probable hybrids were located, it appeared that introgression was not a significant factor in the variability exhibited. The existing variability may be attributed to undetermined localized variations in the environment. The taxonomic problems between various species are discussed with probable relationships suggested.
4034169| Quantitative data on composition and structure of the tree stratum were collected from fifty forest communities in eastern, western, and southwestern Virginia, eastern West Virginia and the western part of the Great Smoky Mountains having American beech (Fagus grandifolia) as a major [IV  17.5 (of 100)] component. Forty-eight different species of trees were tallied in these communities. Basal area of trees (m
4032651|During the spring of 1971, a survey of the vascular flora of the Virginia portion of the Dismal Swamp was conducted. From March to June, one hundred and nine (109) species were collected and preserved in the herbarium at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Virginia. Four (4) species were observed in the field but not collected. An additional sixteen (16) species collected from 1965 to 1970 had been recorded in the herbarium. These one hundred and twenty-nine (129) species represent one hundred and two (102) genera within fifty-five (55) families. The majority of the species are common to the eastern Carolinas and Virginia and are frequently associated with swamp forests or disturbed habitats.
4033931|Leaf and fruit collections from the four known populations of the Maple-leaved oak, Quercus shumardii Buckl. var. acerifolia Palmer (Fagaceae), were analyzed for 47 qualitative and quantitative characters. Qualitative character states are identical within and among populations; means and ranges of variation for quantitative characters are very similar among populations although the ranges of variation within populations are often large. Data presented here adequately characterize leaves and fruits of this taxon to allow for reliable identification in the field and herbarium. Previously unpublished identifiers are also noted. The Maple-leaved oak is treated conservatively at the varietal level in this paper, pending further comparisons between it and the other taxa in the Quercus shumardii complex.
20433950|Lynch's Woods Park (Newberry County, South Carolina) was floristically surveyed between 2002 and 2005. The Park features north-facing slopes, granite outcrops, and several small streams within the Piedmont physiographic province. A total of 528 vascular plant species were documented within the 101.2 ha, including 91 (17%) nonnatives. Three species, Anemone berlandieri, Eurybia mirabilis, and Rhododendron eastmanii were rare species. Analysis of community structure revealed that most of the area was a mixed mesophytic forest, with the upland sites developing toward an oak-hickory forest.
4033625|The community ecology of a 0.49 ha wetland was studied at a site that was highly disrupted by past limestone mining. The wetland occurs in a potentially stressful environment for many plants because only a thin layer of soil covers bedrock and moisture fluctuations range from inundation to desiccation. In the wetland, 86.4% of the species are native (including the 11 most frequent species). Variation in species frequency across the wetland is controlled by soil depth and soil moisture. Of the native species occurring in the wetland, 80% also occur in two nearby nature preserves; some of these species are associated with ruderal habitats.
4033026|Due to local reticulate distribution Senecio plattensis introgrades with each of three other species of Senecio L. in Montgomery County, Virginia.
4032463|The frequency and percentage composition of plants was determined on levees in East St. Charles Parish (County), Louisiana. This parish is west of New Orleans and is bounded on the south by the Mississippi River and on the north by Lake Pontchartrain. The vegetation was sampled by 55 line transects at the same locations in February-March, May-June and August-September. Eighty-nine species were recorded in this study. Field notes indicate vernal, estival and autumnal flowering periods in the area. Eleven species were noted to flower only in the February-March study, six species only in the May-June study and eight species only in the August-September study.
4033511| Quantitative data on structure and composition of the vegetation were obtained for red oak-dominated stands at 13 sites in the Ridge and Valley and Blue Ridge physiographic provinces of western Virginia. All of the stands we sampled occurred at elevations >1100 m (mean elevation = 1229 m) and the majority were situated on slopes with a northern exposure. In the overstory (stems  10 cm DBH) of these stands, red oak had an average importance value (where IV = relative basal area + relative density/2) of 70.2. The most important associates of red oak were red maple (average IV = 10.5), black birch (4.2), and white oak (3.8). Red oak was much less dominant (IV = 9.8) in the understory (stems  2.5 cm DBH but <10.0 cm DBH), where witch hazel (19.6), red maple (16.2), mountain holly (9.9), and chestnut (8.3) were the other more important species present. Average species diversity (Shannon's formula) of the overstory was 1.36, whereas that of the understory was 2.00. 
27742911|Forest and grass riparian buffers are a common conservation practice to control nonpoint source pollution. In the lower midwestern United States, there is significant interest in incorporating a once common native riparian species, giant cane (Arundinaria gigantea) in riparian restoration designs. Thus, assessing the water quality benefits of giant cane buffers is warranted. Ground water nitrate and ammonium concentrations were measured at the field edge (0 m), and 1.5, 3.0, 6.0, 9.0, and 12.0 m from the field edge through giant cane and forest riparian buffers adjacent to agricultural fields along three streams in southern Illinois. Ground water nitrate and ammonium were not different between the giant cane and forest riparian buffers, nor were there significant reductions in these nutrients through the riparian zones when all three sites were considered. However, site-specific regressions of nutrient concentration vs. distance showed significant reductions (&gt;80%) in nitrate through two forest and one cane riparian buffers, and a significant reduction in ammonium (95%) through a cane buffer. Our results indicate that buffer effectiveness may be dependent on landscape position and water table depth.
4033249|Haplostephium passerina Mart. ex DC., the only species of this Brazilian genus, is described. Synonymies and taxonomic commentary are provided.
41416202|The Kokiwanee (56 ha) and Hathaway (29 ha) preserves are located in northeastern Indiana. Both sites include gorges cut by tributaries of the Wabash River, which produce a range of microenvironments that are unusual for this part of Indiana. Floristic inventories were done from 2004 through 2011. Kokiwanee had 467 vascular plant species, while Hathaway had 316. A total of 529 species, representing 325 genera and 104 families, were found in the two sites combined, with 254 species being found in both. Many of the 213 species found only at Kokiwanee occurred in mature forest on a southwest-facing bluff or in fens; most of the 62 species found only at Hathaway were found in a crop field, old fields, or an east-facing gorge wall. Forty-three percent of the species found were county records. Nineteen percent of species were exotic, a significantly lower proportion than for the state as a whole. One state threatened-list species (Dactylorhiza viridis) and three state watch-list species (Liparis loeselii, Panax quinquefolius, and Veratrum woodii) were found. A number of species are near their northern range limits at these sites. Floristic quality is relatively high.
4032947|Fifty-three National Park Service areas in the Southeast Region were surveyed for information on the status of botanical checklists, collections, rare species data, exotic species data, vegetation inventory, vegetation maps, and major vegetation management problems. Most of the parks over 500 ha in size had a vascular checklist or collection, while more than half of the smaller parks did not. Most areas had basic information on rare species presence, but only three had detailed reports and locations available. Most of the larger parks had vegetation surveys and maps, but very few areas, including historic areas, had historic vegetation data in a consolidated form. Exotic plants are one of the primary vegetation management problems for the smaller parks. Other reported concerns included feral animals, fire management, and human trampling.
4032921|This floristic study treats the 4 species of Elephantopus and the single species of Pseudo-elephantopus native or adventive to Florida. Keys to the species are given. Distribution within the state is shown by maps based on county records. The history of introduction of P. spicatus (B. Juss. ex Aubl.) Gleason into the state is detailed by specimen citations.
4034074|A new species, Echinodorus floridanus, from extreme western panhandle Florida, USA is described, and characteristics to separate it from the other species of Echinodorus are discussed. The new species is known only from the type locality.
4032784|This floristic study treats the 10 species of Vaccinium native to Florida. A key to the species is given. Distribution within the state is shown by maps based on county records. The following are proposed in a new status within V. stamineum: var. caesium, var. glandulosum, var. multiflorum, var. sericeum.
4033225|At the time of settlement, portions of the Inner Bluegrass plateau were occupied by a savanna-woodland, in which Fraxinus quadrangulata, Quercus macrocarpa, Q. muhlenbergii, and Q. shumardii were prominent members and now constitute the chief species in the surviving remnants. The interaction of several factors, including past climatic conditions, chemical nature of the bedrock, underdrainage, soil character, fire, and grazing, was undoubtedly responsible for the establishment and maintenance of this vegetation type prior to settlement. The original ground cover was replaced soon after settlement by cool-season pasture grasses. The remnants of the blue ash-oak savanna-woodland are being threatened by the failure of seedlings to become established and by the continued urbanization of the Inner Bluegrass.
4033104|Much of the disturbed soil on a 1.45 kilometer road bank at the West Virginia University Forest in northern West Virginia was invaded with natural vegetation and stabilized by the end of the second growing season after road construction. The amount of vegetation generally increased with the steepness of the road bank. Although the steeper slopes had more surface erosion, this soil movement undermined the soil supporting the root mat at the top of the slope, causing this mat to fold down and take root. Nearly half of the transects contained vegetation established in this manner. Forty-nine percent of the cut bank was covered, and about one-fifth of this was due to vegetation sloughs. Thirty-six species were tallied for the transects. The taxonomic composition of the transects from seed was similar to those that had lodged and rooted mats. This indicates that sloughed mats form important centers of spread in revegetating areas that are still open, and that mats act as an important means of stabilizing steep banks of disturbed soil.
4032635|Elliottia racemosa Muhl. (Ericaceae) is reported for the first time outside the Coastal Plain of the Southeastern United States. This location is in an area of serpentine rocks and is a new type of habitat for the species. Soil analyses gave values for Mg and Zn around 2 to 3 times higher than usual for soils of deciduous woods around Athens, Ga.
4032944|Freshly-matured seeds of Ruellia humilis Nutt. (Acanthaceae) germinate after prolonged incubation at temperatures exceeding those in the habitat at the time of seed dispersal in autumn. However, in the field, seeds are exposed to effective stratification temperatures during winter, and germination occurs in spring. Seeds required only 2-4 weeks of stratification to germinate to 59% or more at 30(day)/15(night), 35/20 and 40/25 C. Additional chilling promoted nearly 100% germination at these temperatures and at 25/15 C, and stimulated some germination at 20/10 C. The number of days with stratifying temperatures (0.5-10 C) in all parts of the range of R. humilis is sufficient to satisfy the chilling requirement. Thus, germination in this species need not be dependent on ecotypes or races with dormancy and germination characteristics that are closely adapted to local environmental conditions.
4032856|Serotinous cones of Pinus pungens on Looking Glass Rock, North Carolina, remain closed for two years after maturity. After two years about 40 percent open without fire, and the remaining 60 percent stay closed and attached to the tree for a decade or more, with viable seeds in the oldest cones. In this way, the population insures its perpetuation both in the presence and absence of fire.
4033213| A taxonomic overview is presented of the lycopsid genus Isotes in the southeastern United States. Keys, relevant synonyms, descriptions, habitats, and notes are given. The occurrence of natural interspecific hybrids is cited and discussed. 
4033977|Spray cliff plant communities of the southeastern Blue Ridge, are best developed on steep gorge walls of the escarpment, and consist of an assemblage of plant species unique to the southern Appalachian Mountains. A quantitative study of both the vascular and nonvascular spray cliff vegetation was conducted in the Chattooga Basin, the western-most escarpment gorge. Nine plant associations were delineated using numerical classification techniques, revealing groups comprised of both habitat specialists (i.e., rock outcrop, wetland, and spray cliff restricted species) and generalists. The distributions of these nine associations are in part related to differences in exposure to direct potential solar radiation and local flooding regimes. Furthermore, these spray cliff communities show other features commonly associated with island systems in pattern (e.g., species richness--area relations) and floristic composition (e.g., high numbers of endemic and highly mobile, spore producing taxa). The exceptional vascular and nonvascular species richness, relative abundance of endemic, disjunct, and rare listed taxa documented on the Chattooga Basin spray cliffs illustrates both the high conservation value of this community type and the significant contribution of bryophytes to spray cliff community composition.
4033757|Phenology, population dynamics, survivorship, and sexual reproduction were studied in two populations (A and B) of Senecio antennariifolius from 1986 to 1988. Senecio antennariifolius flowered from mid-April to late May; by mid-June, all seeds were dispersed. Number of adults in population A decreased by 15% between 1986 and 1987, and by 49% between 1987 and 1988. However, due to a large number of seedlings in 1988 the total number of genets remained nearly constant over a three-year period. In population B, the number of adults decreased by 17% between 1987 and 1988, but the number of seedlings in 1988 more than replaced the number of adults that died. Adults produced flowers when they had 4 rosettes in population A, and 10 rosettes in population B. Mortality was greatest among small adults, and was caused by erosion, invasion of Lonicera japonica, and possibly failure to produce new basal rosettes.
4034067|Bad Branch is located on the southeast face of Pine Mountain in southeastern Kentucky near the Virginia border. One hundred and forty-nine moss species were documented for the Bad Branch watershed. Cirriphyllum piliferum, Ephemerum crassinervium, Oncophorus raui, Polytrichum strictum, Sphagnum cuspidatum, Brachythecium populeum, and Sphagnum quinquefarium are newly reported for Kentucky with the latter two species also new for the Cumberland Plateau. Bad Branch also has an unusually diverse Sphagnum flora (10 species) for the Cumberland Plateau and Cumberland Mountain regions.
4033031|The flora of three South Carolina pine savannahs consisted of 157 species of vascular plants representing 50 families and 110 genera. More than 30 species were in flower during each month of the period of May through September, with 49 species flowering during the month of June. Flowering periodicity in the three savannahs was analogous to that of midwestern prairies with five floristic "seasons" perceptible: 1) prevernal, 2) vernal, 3) aestival, 4) serotinal, and 5) autumnal. Many of the genera known to be dominant in the prairies were also found to be dominant in the three savannahs studied.
4032360|An annual cycle of bimonthly collections was made from 17 stations located on creeks, rivers, and ponds receiving acid mine drainage in order to obtain information on the species of algae that are tolerant to these waters. Also data were obtained to determine the relative importance of some of the major chemical factors of the water to ecology of the algae. Nitrate, phosphate, and calcium did not appear to be limiting or modifying. There was a lack of correlation between chemical factors except for total acidity, iron and pH. A range for the latter three characterised each of the habitats studied. Total acidity and the associated facors (iron and pH) appeared to have the controlling influence on the algal population in the more highly acid streams. The total number of genera and species as observed in a living condition in mine polluted water, compared favorably with numbers reported from "unpolluted" waters. Nearly half of the total species observed were found in the more highly acid creeks, as well as in the other habitats (less acid creeks, rivers and ponds). Algae characteristic of mine polluted water were found to be those common to a range of habitats, with the reduction in numbers of species at higher acidities and at lower pH values, being primarily in those that are less common to a range of habitats. The range of total acidity and pH values at a particular site or stream reach can be characterised by a range in the number of species and their abundance--an increase or decrease in abundance being dependent on the algal species. Some species such as Euglena mutabilis Sch., Eunotia tenella (Grun) Cleve, and Pinnularia braunii (Grun) Cleve, are most abundant in mine polluted water.
4034027|This paper describes methods used to investigate the effects of post-European settlement land-use on the structure and species composition of a central Pennsylvania woodlot. Historical accounts and witness tree analysis used to reconstruct the pre-settlement landscape describe a prairie/savanna occupying the Penns Valley region of central Pennsylvania. The historical information suggests the woodlot originated following European settlement, when land uses such as farming, grazing, and eventual land abandonment altered the original landscape, allowing development of closed canopy woodlots on hilly areas with poorer soil quality. Dendroecological analysis of the woodlot also supports post-settlement origin. The oldest tree individuals established around forty years after settlement indicating the woodlot is not a pre-settlement origin remnant but a result of post-settlement land-use patterns. In addition, subsequent land-use in the woodlot was recorded in the tree ring record. Numerous growth increases in residual trees correspond with multiple selective removals of timber from the stand since settlement. These small gap openings fostered regeneration of more shade tolerant red maple. Due to fire suppression and selective harvesting of dominant oaks the stand is currently undergoing oak replacement by red maple.
27742890|Wild hyacinth (Camassia angusta) is a perennial species native to mesic prairies of the midwestern and south-central United States. In Illinois, the only extant population of this state-endangered species is in a small section of degraded black-soil prairie along a railroad track right-of-way south of Elwin, Macon County. The objectives of this study were to determine the population status, seed production, and effects of scarification and stratification on germination of C. angusta. The population was surveyed from 1990 to 2007. A survey of other plant species present was conducted in 1999. The site consisted of approximately 75% native and 25% exotic species. The number of flowering stems of Camassia angusta fluctuated significantly (28 to 169 plants) during the course of this study. Prescribed spring burns and a construction equipment disturbance may be partially responsible for these fluctuations. A large percentage of undeveloped fruit, resulting in low seed production (&lt;3,000), as well as low seed germination (8%), may be responsible for this population's inability to increase consistently in number of individuals.
4032545|Gutierrezia dracunculoides (DC.) Blake (Compositae) is reported from Kentucky for the first time. The occurrence of G. dracunculoides in the Outer Bluegrass Region of Kentucky represents an eastern range extension for the species. Two conditions that appear to be requisite for its establishment and persistence after the seeds have reached an area are lack of mowing during the summer and lack of competition from other plant species.
4034099|Old-growth forests in Congaree Swamp National Monument, South Carolina were surveyed to determine status of former state and national champion trees and to record size, topographic setting, and presence of conspecific saplings under the canopy of formerly known plus newly discovered big trees. Ninety-one big trees, including two previous champions, were measured. Of the 30 state champion trees listed in 1979 (including 9 national champions), only 2 were still alive by August 1995. Many apparently died before Hurricane Hugo struck in 1989. During the latest survey, 29 individuals (25 species) of state champion size, including 4 national champions (3 species), were found. Thirty-four of the measured trees were over 40 m tall; eight were over 48 m. Topographic positions were species-specific; however, most big trees occurred in broad, low flat areas or on the edges of sloughs. Few had conspecific saplings beneath their crowns.
4033631| Senecio millefolium T. & G. was added to the Virginia flora in 1944 by Lloyd G. K. Carr on the basis of a single specimen collected in the Cedars of Lee County. The Carr specimen was small and depauperate, and the species was not identified subsequently from this area. In 1971, S. millefolium was omitted from the Virginia flora and since that time has been considered a Blue Ridge endemic found only in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. In 1990, collections of Senecio millefolium were made in the Cedars along with Senecio memmingeri (S. anonymus  S. millefolium). Their identification readmits S. millefolium to the Virginia flora, expands its range to the Ridge and Valley Physiographic Province, and adds limestone to its edaphic tolerance. The species remains threatened even with the addition of these new populations. 
4033935|Between June 1994 and May 1995, we measured plant species densities, species richness, tree basal area, and soil chemistry in thirty, 81-ha sandhill plots at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. Comparisons were made between three sandhill types: (1) fire-suppressed, (2) burned with bluestem (Andropogon spp. and Schizachyrium spp.) dominance, and (3) burned with wiregrass (Aristida beyrichiana) dominance. Species assemblages for each sandhill condition are discussed. Species richness and densities of forbs, clonal shrubs, and graminoids were highest in burned and wiregrass-dominant plots. Fire-suppressed plots harbored lower stem densities of herbaceous and woody groundcover species, but their floristic composition was similar to that of burned plots. The majority of fire-suppressed plots were more floristically similar to the burned and bluestem-dominant sandhills. Soil chemistry did not correlate strongly with observed vegetation patterns, but there is evidence that soil texture influences species assemblages within sandhill communities. Whereas fire frequency appears to have its greatest effect on vegetation structure and relative dominance of certain species or life-forms, plant species richness, and species composition appear to be largely determined by edaphic variation and soil disturbance histories.
4033710|The genetic and morphological variation in Portulaca umbraticola Kunth are analyzed and synthesized with data from the original descriptions, comparisons of herbarium and live specimens, and chromosome counts to support the maintenance of a single species, with two subspecies in the United States.
4032841|Arctium minus, Centaurea, with seven species, and Cnicus benedictus are treated floristically for Virginia. Keys to genera and species, along with species descriptions, distribution maps, ecological and flowering and fruiting data are included. Centaurea X pratensis is reported new to the flora.
4033883|Plant taxa endemic (22) or nearly endemic (22) to the Coastal Plain of North and South Carolina show a distributional pattern strongly associated with the Cape Fear Arch geological uplift. The great majority (41 of 44) are concentrated in a region extending along the coast from Carteret County, North Carolina to Georgetown County, South Carolina, and northwestward along ancient Cape Fear River terraces to the Sandhills region, where the endemics and near-endemics are concentrated from Harnett County, North Carolina to Darlington County, South Carolina. Among the 44 taxa, 41 are angiosperms with 33 dicots and eight monocots. Among the angiosperms, 40 are biennial or perennial, 32 are herbaceous, 30 are wetland obligates or wetland facultative, and 34 are associated with fire-maintained southern pine and evergreen shrub communities. Ultisols and spodosols are the soil orders with which the majority of the endemic/near endemic taxa are associated, but some of the rarest taxa are associated with entisols and alfisols. Biological, habitat, and distributional characteristics of the endemic/near-endemic taxa suggest the Cape Fear Arch region contained migration corridors, refugia, and isolated habitats favorable for speciation during the last glacial episode.
4033088|The cutting, burning and ditching of a very large pocosin in southeastern North Carolina for the purpose of silviculture afforded the opportunity to observe the response of three species of Sarracenia growing in the dense brush. Prior to disturbance (the last fire was some twenty years previously), pitcher plants were growing poorly but maintained a presence. Subsequent to clearing, the immediate effects of increased light and decreased aerial competition became apparent with an exuberant growth release wherein the Sarracenias became dominant and there was an increase in seedling activity. The effects of ditching lagged and the soil did not begin to dry for one to two years after clearing at which time Sarracenias promptly decreased, even though shrub sprouting had not recurred sufficiently to provide significant competition. The events in this pocosin are compared to reports of savanna burnings, and the possible significance of burning the cut brush of the pocosin after drying is discussed along with various previous and current soil analyses. It is concluded that the effects of mechanical clearing followed by decreasing hydration were probably the most important factors involved in Sarracenia reaction.
4033735| Herbaceous layer vegetation was distinct among the four remaining serpentine areas in Maryland according to detrended correspondence analysis. Sorensen's Indices of Similarity for importance values were 40.8-69.6% and 56.1-77.6% for composition. The Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H) varied 1.88-2.49 and alpha diversity (total species sampled) from 23-33. Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash dominated three sites, and Sporobolus heterolepis Gray and Schizachyrium scoparium were dominants at the fourth. Twentytwo species collectively characterized the herbaceous layer of the four sites. Preliminary observations of an incidental major fire of unknown origin at one site suggested that restoration of indigenous serpentine vegetation may require cutting of coniferous trees followed by prescribed burns to control seedlings and saplings. 
4034244|The 1956 hectares comprising Piscataway and Fort Washington National Parks in Prince Georges and Charles Counties, Maryland were surveyed for vascular plants from 1995 to 2002. Additional historic occurrences were determined through searches of local herbaria. A total of 988 vascular plant taxa representing 973 species, nine varieties and six hybrids from 495 genera in 142 families were documented within the parks. Of these, seventeen are known only from historic specimens or records. Habitat associations and relative frequency of occurrence was noted for each taxon. A total of 21 habitats were identified and they were described along with their geology and hydrology. Non-native taxa comprised 25.3% of the vascular flora within the parks. Thirty-one of the documented plants have State endangered or threatened status.
4033794|A twelve-month phytoplankton study was conducted in Lake Drummond and Washington and Jericho Ditches from December 1988 to November 1989. Four dominant phytoplankton groups were identified at these sites. These were the Bacillariophyceae, Cyanophyceae, Cryptophyceae and an autotrophic picoplankton component. Over the past 20 years there has been a decrease in the mean pH levels of Lake Drummond and the replacement of one its former major components, the Chlorophyceae, by the Cyanophyceae. Based on water quality analysis results and species diversity indices, Lake Drummond is classified as in an early eutrophic stage of development.
41301498|Prevalence of sexual and asexual reproduction by plants influences genetic and spatial structure of populations. We investigated reproduction in five populations of Dirca palustris that span its distribution from Florida to North Dakota, and identified the contributions of sexual and asexual reproduction to the clustering of individuals that is characteristic of the species. In each population, maximum density of plants was documented by assessing the 10 clusters that appeared most dense. We surveyed these clusters for evidence of recent recruitment, sowed locally collected fruits to estimate potential for germination, and estimated prevalence of clones by using ISSR genetic markers. Maximum density of plants varied markedly among populations, and denser clusters showed evidence of greater recruitment over several years. Germination of seeds one year after fruits were sown varied from 7 to 56% among populations. Genetic analysis, and our observation of cotelydonary scars on young plants, indicate restricted seed dispersal rather than clonal reproduction explains the occurrence of D. palustris in clumps. Plant density and recruitment were greatest in North Dakota, which raises questions about what governs the distribution of D. palustris at this northern and western limit of the species. The population in Florida, where the species is listed as endangered at its southern limit, had the least germination, the greatest extent of granivory, and relatively poor evidence for recent recruitment. D. palustris is rare in the southern portion of its range, and our data demonstrate the population in Florida should be prioritized by conservationists and monitored for recruitment.
4033736|This is a study of the seven species of the Fumariaceae known to occur in Virginia. The following are emphasized: keys to genera and species, morphological descriptions, distribution maps, and chromosome numbers. The following chromosome numbers are reported: Dicentra canadensis (Goldie) Walpers (2n = 64): Dicentra cucullaria (L.) Bernh. (2n = 32); Dicentra exima (Ker) Torrey (2n = 16); Fumaria officinalis L. (2n = 32); Corydalis sempervirens (L.) Persoon (2n = 32). Reported for the first time: Corydalis flavula (Raf.) DC. (2n = 16).
4034300|Thirty-five tree species, represented by 240 individuals, were climbed during two three-week periods in June, July, and August of calendar years 2000 and 2001 in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The double rope climbing technique was used because the climbers could advance to higher levels in the tree canopy. Maximum-sized mature trees in old growth park areas were sampled up to 40 m. Bark samples were cultured in moist chamber cultures. Ninety-five myxomycete species were obtained from the tree canopy mostly from the following tree species: Fraxinus americana (white ash), Quercus alba (white oak), Liriodendron tulipifera (yellow poplar), Acer rubrum (red maple), and Pinus strobus (white pine). We report here 52 new records from the tree canopy, 7 from ground sites, bringing to 212 the number of myxomycete species known from the Park. Comatricha penicillata is recorded for the first time outside of the type locality in Japan. This is the first upper tree canopy list of myxomycete species from the Park. The Myxomycetes represent the only group of cryptogams with species only known from the tree canopy.
4033240|Previous opinions, principally those of Charles S. Sargent in 1886 and P.A. Davies in 1956, are reviewed concerning the type location and the date of collection by Andre Michaux of the type specimen of Shortia galacifolia T.&G. A 1976 rendering of Michaux's journal by Margaret Mills Seaborn permits a new interpretation for both the type location and the date of collection for the Shortia type specimen. Phenological observations prove the type specimen was collected in June, 1787 during Michaux's first journey to Oconee County, SC, when he continued on into Jackson and Macon Counties, NC, and Rabun County, GA. A detailed study of journal entries strongly indicates that Michaux's party traveled through the heart of the natural range of Shortia on June 13. He was out of the natural range on June 12 and on June 14. Further interpretation resolves that the type location lies within a six-mile stretch along the west bank of the upper Keowee River above present Jocassee Dam and along the northeast bank of the Whitewater River in Jocassee Valley, Oconee County, SC.
4034172|A statistical analysis of characteristics of Carex retroflexa Willd. and Carex texensis (Torr.) L. H. Bailey is provided. This analysis confirms the distinctiveness of these two species, which some authors have considered as a single taxon in the past. Analysis reveals Carex texensis perigynia average less than 1.3 mm wide, with a spongy portion length of less than 1.1 mm. Carex retroflexa perigynia average 1.3 mm or more wide, with a spongy portion 1.1 mm long or longer.
4032801|The sedge Eleocharis acicularis (L.) R. & S. is a mat forming species found in acid polluted waters with pH as low as 2.85. Both terrestrial and submergent forms are known and were shown by reciprocal transplants to be genetically identical and freely interconvertible. The colonies tend to be in backwash areas where water current is mostly negligible and substrate texture is clay-silt. Mats buried under silt are capable of reestablishing themselves by internodal elongation in association with the production of new culms. Measurements of the chemical environment varied widely but phosphorus and CO
4032326|Acceptance of Hack's Equilibrium Concept of Landscape would eliminate the erosion-cycles peneplanation idea as an explanation of coastal plain--mountain disjunct patterns of plant distribution in eastern North America. Palynological and other paleobotanical evidences point to the interplay of Cenozoic climate fluctuations, the changing landscape, and barriers which these phenomena form, as primary causes of these disjunct patterns.
4034245|There is increasing interest in the restoration of classic landscapes such as native grasslands in the northeastern United States. This study characterizes the species composition and range of natural variability of xeric limestone prairies in unglaciated central Appalachia. Bouteloua curtipendula, the characteristic and dominant graminoid, is the primary indicator species for xeric limestone prairies in Pennsylvania, and its distribution is restricted to dry, south-southwest facing slopes within the valleys of the Ridge and Valley Physiographic Province. Only ten such prairies are known to remain in Pennsylvania and their total area is <1 hectare. A total of 126 native taxa representing 40 families was found on the extant prairies. Twelve rare, state-listed prairie species were found on these sites, and their state-wide distributions also were concentrated in the Ridge and Valley. In comparison to Ohio and West Virginia limestone prairies, community structure, determined by dominant graminoids, was identical, but species composition, particularly related to prairie forb assemblages, was slightly different (average Sorenson similarity coefficient = 38%). The limestone prairies of Pennsylvania have a strong association with the Opequon soil series, which is found only in limestone valleys. Xeric limestone prairies in Pennsylvania likely were never a large component of the presettlement landscape, were likely concentrated in central Pennsylvania, and currently serve as important refugia for uncommon eastern prairie species.
4033797|Three populations of Leersia lenticularis Michx. were located in western Ohio in 1991. All sites are within the floodplain of the St. Marys River, a tributary of the Maumee River and the Lake Erie basin. These stations are the first known for this species from the Great Lakes drainage. The Maumee Terrace, formed by overflow waters from prehistoric Lake Maumee, is a possible avenue of plant migration from the Mississippian drainage Wabash River into Lake Erie tributaries.
4033167|Floristic data and county dot distribution maps are presented for the fifteen native species and one naturalized species of the Asclepiadaceae found in the flora of Ohio.
4034279|The objectives of this study were to document changes, between 1971 and 1999, in overstory vegetation structure and composition at Lilley Cornett Woods (LCW), an old-growth mixed mesophytic forest in eastern Kentucky. Similar to other old-growth forests, overstory density (284 to 347 trees/ha) and basal area (26.4 to 29.9 m
4033152|Using estimates of the mean monthly temperature as a function of elevation in west-central Virginia, it is inferred that red spruce (Picea rubens) and other boreal vegetation should be a common natural vegetation type above about 3,000 feet. The current existence of an Appalachian Oak Forest above these heights, however, is due to the lumbering and subsequent repeated burning of the red spruce in this region during the last half of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth centuries. This destruction of the favorable microclimate and soil conditions for spruce germination and initial growth eliminated this species throughout much of its range in this area. The current documented climatic cooling in the region, however, along with the reestablishment of a moister, cooler climate beneath the oak forest canopy, provides a suitable environment for the reestablishment of spruce. Unfortunately, the distribution of this tree, in regions where it had been eliminated by logging and fire, is limited because of its poor seed mobility. Thus, the dispersal, in a reasonably short time frame, of this tree type over its apparent natural range in the Appalachian Mountains will require reforestation by man.
4033078|Harperocallis flava McDaniel (Harper's beauty), a federally endangered species, occurs along a 32-kilometer stretch of SR 65 in Franklin and Liberty Counties, Florida. Previous estimates of populations at the three known stations were less than 100 plants. In May 1982 additional colonies were found along SR 65 and along the Apalachicola Northern Railroad in Liberty County. A revised estimate of 6,000 Harper's beauty plants is reported. Habitat studies and management plans are needed. In view of the apparent threat by collectors, the restricted range of the species, and the lack of knowledge pertaining to species biology, continued endangered status for Harper's beauty is recommended.
4033032|A Bray-Curtis polar ordination is presented using data from 34 stands of E. Lucy Braun's paradigmatic Mixed Mesophytic Forest of the Cumberland Mountains. Aesculus octandra, Tilia heterophylla, and Acer saccharum are concentrated in stands at the opposite end of the vegetational gradient from Tsuga canadensis and Quercus alba, while the distribution of Liriodendron tulipifera overlapped that of all five of these species. Fagus grandifolia was important all across the ordination except in stands with high Tilia-Aesculus. The ordination revealed differences and similarities between individual stands not detectable from Braun's subjective groupings. Distributional relationships among species are clarified by the ordination, and Braun's treatment of the forests as a part of a single intergrading complex rather than as several community types is supported.
4032957|A new species of Rubus is described, and twelve species formerly recognized by us are reduced to synonomy.
4032379|Four species recognized as occurring in the southeastern United States are: Luzula bulbosa (Wood) Rydb., L. echinata (Small) Hermann, L. multiflora (Retz.) Lej. and L. acuminata Raf. var. acuminata and var. carolinae (S. Wats.) Fern. Pertinent systematic data are offered for these species.
41058092|This study examines the breeding system of Ruellia succulenta (Acanthaceae), an herbaceous perennial found in the pine rockland habitat of southern Florida. Hand pollination treatments were performed on 75 plants, 25 from each of three sites. Treatments applied to test plants included: 1) control (no manipulation), 2) anthers-removed, 3) self-pollinated, and 4) cross-pollinated. The pollination protocol investigated facultative autogamy, apomixis, and self-compatibility. Fruit set and seed number per fruit were recorded. In addition to determining breeding system, the data were used to evaluate inbreeding depression at the earliest life history stages (i.e., fruit and seed set), and to identify the mechanism of self-pollination. Results showed R. succulenta to be fully self-compatible and facultatively autogamous. Plants were unable to set fruit without pollen deposition, indicating the lack of apomixis. There is no evidence of inbreeding depression in fruit set or seed set for the self-vs. cross-pollinated treatments. The mechanism of autofertility appeared to be delayed self-pollination as the corolla abscised and the anthers were dragged past the persistent stigma.
20433925|Blackland prairies are found in two regions of Mississippi and Alabama, the Black Belt and the Jackson Prairie Belt. As the vegetation of remnant prairies in these belts has received limited attention, we collected and identified the grasses and forbs from 19 sites in Mississippi and western Alabama over a year. A total of 196 species were collected, including 168 native species. When compared with prairie species lists for these regions from the early 20th century, our results suggest that 18 species present then may now be rare or absent. Habitat data for these species indicate that most favor more mesic or sandier soils. Their apparent absence implies that existing prairies are a subset of historic prairies that were not useful for agriculture because of drier and/or more clayey soils. To preserve the biodiversity of this ecosystem, conservation efforts should include more mesic or sandy sites, including prairieforest ecotones.
4033774|Two bogs with a combined area of 3.6 hectares on Crowley's Ridge in Greene County, Arkansas were studied to determine and compare the vascular flora. Plants were collected from May 1992 through January 1994. A combined total of 262 taxa representing 178 genera and 71 families was collected in the study areas. Carex bromoides, Chelone glabra and Spiraea tomentosa, all considered rare in the state of Arkansas, were present in one or both bogs. Bog ecosystems are very limited in extent in Arkansas, and as a result of the plant diversity found in these two bogs, formal protection is recommended by the authors.
4032377|Parental and hybrid populations of Vernonia crinita Raf. and V. baldwini Torr. var. baldwini were studied in the Ozark area of Arkansas and Missouri. Population samples of the "pure" parental types were compared with three hybrid population samples by means of scatter diagrams and histograms. These two species are normally isolated by ecological and seasonal reproductive barriers which have broken down in the Ozark region and resulted in extensive hybridization between these two taxa.
40792821|The vascular flora of the North Chickamauga Creek Gorge State Natural Area (NCCG) was studied during three growing seasons from 2006 to 2008. NCCG is located in Hamilton and Sequatchie Counties, Tennessee, on the eastern edge of the Cumberland Plateau. Within the study area are 2,862 ha of eastern deciduous forest that contains 12 distinct habitat types. A survey of these habitat types yielded 110 families, 329 genera, and 604 species or lesser taxa, including 238 county records. Seventy-six introduced species were found, comprising 13% of the total flora. Eleven species with either a state or federal listing were documented: Castanea dentata, Diervilla lonicera, Diervilla rivularis, Glyceria acutifolia, Nestronia umbellula, Spiraea virginiana, Scutellaria montana, Sabatia capitata, Woodwardia virginica, Panax quinqu folium, and Viola tripartita. A species-area curve for the Cumberland Plateau of Tennessee was constructed from the current study and seven other similar studies of the plateau. Three family level species-area linear regression lines were also constructed, demonstrating that the natural area reaches or exceeds expectations for Asteraceae, Poaceae, and Cyperaceae.
4033693|The common term used by early travelers to describe lands in the Midwestern wilderness that were neither "good prairie" nor "good forest" is barrens. This natural type changed quickly after settlement, and few examples are left to document its original character. Confusion exists among ecologists today as to the definition and proper use of the term. Some doubt that it has any place in modern classification systems. Very few sites have been recognized by the barrens name in modern inventories. After studying and comparing historical descriptions of the barrens, and after examining original barrens areas in several of the Midwestern states, it appears that the barrens term was, and still is, a legitimate name for a natural community type distinct from forest and prairie. A definition is proposed, but the main emphasis of this presentation is to describe the barrens. Although all have been affected by unnatural disturbance, good examples still exist and should be recognized and preserved.
4033461|Ranunculus platensis Sprengel, an immigrant weedy annual species from South America, was collected first within the United States in Terrebonne Parish, Louisiana, in 1917. Since then, it has spread to six states (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, and Texas) and at least 39 counties and parishes. Based on its biology, the species may be expected to spread generally within the southeastern United States during the next half century.
41301583|Galax urceolata (Diapensiaceae) is a common evergreen herb of southern Appalachian forests. During the fall and winter, leaves of plants in high light produce substantial amounts of anthocyanins. Oddly, rhizomes in these plants also accumulate anthocyanins. The purpose of this observational study was to identify seasonal trends in anthocyanin production in above-and below-ground tissues of Galax. We measured anthocyanins and chlorophyll in Galax using standard extraction and spectrophotometric procedures from plants in sun-exposed and shaded locations; one population at Mount Jefferson State Natural Area in fall 2007 and two at Grandfather Mountain in fall/winter 2008-09. Rhizome carbohydrates (soluble sugars and starch) were measured from the Grandfather populations using high performance liquid chromatography. We found significantly more anthocyanins in leaves and rhizomes of plants from sun-exposed locations compared to plants from shaded locations, but no differences in carbohydrate concentrations. Starch levels declined significantly through the fall/winter of 2008-09, while soluble sugars, such as sucrose, raffinose, and fructose, increased. Rhizomal anthocyanins were distributed throughout the entire cross-section except for the vascular tissues, whereas in petioles and leaves, they were restricted to the epidermal or subepidermal layers. Rhizomal anthocyanins often concentrated around lateral roots as they penetrated the cortex. These results contradict the paradigm that light is always required for anthocyanin production, and suggest the possibility of some form of communication between leaves and rhizomes with respect to anthocyanin content, although the nature of that signal is unknown. At this time, the adaptive significance of below-ground anthocyanins in Galax remains unresolved.
40983089|The 459 ha property that makes up the Warren Wilson College campus (Buncombe County, North Carolina) consists of a variety of forested, wetland, agricultural, and disturbed habitats. A total of 991 specimens of vascular plants were collected during 2007-09 to obtain a vouchered flora of the campus property. These specimens documented 562 species in 341 genera and 113 families. Twenty-two percent of the species are not native to the Appalachian Mountain region. Species present that are tracked by the North Carolina State Plant Conservation Program were Hydrastis canadensis and Panax quinquefolius. Plant community types are described and listed for each associated species.
4033599|Investigations of the flora of the Carolinas continue to produce noteworthy state, regional, and county records of rare, overlooked, expanding, or opportunistic species. Twenty-six such records are reported here.
4033055|Helonias bullata L. (Liliaceae), Swamp Pink, is a rare disjunct species inhabiting a few bogs in the Southern Appalachians. Its main range is the coastal plain from Virginia to New Jersey. The status of the species in the Southern Appalachians is presented with a summary of population number, population size, inflorescence number and population threats. The breeding system of the species is also described. Helonias is self-compatible and produces large numbers of seed per plant, however, the browsing of inflorescences, the restricted seed dispersal, and sparsity of safe sites for germination appears to reduce the potential number of seedlings entering the populations. Seed appears to be a minor contributor to the continued maintenance of these populations.
4033965|At the time of European settlement in the late 1700s, extensive areas on the Pennyroyal Plain of northwestern Middle Tennessee and southwestern central Kentucky were grass-dominated with scattered and stunted trees and shrubs, apparently as a result of regular burning by Native Americans. These areas were referred to as "barrens" by settlers and because soils were deep and fertile, almost all were in tilth by the middle 1800s. To our knowledge no sites of barrens vegetation from this region, commonly called the "Big Barrens," escaped cultivation. However, since establishment of the Fort Campbell Military Reservation (FCMR) in 1942, regular burning to maintain open conditions for military training has allowed a "barrens flora" to re-develop on former barrens that had been converted to agriculture. We prepared floristic lists from 22 barrens stands during the growing seasons of 1993, 1994, and part of 1995. The combined list includes 342 species with the Asteraceae (70 species), Poaceae (44), Fabaceae (30), Rosaceae (16), Cyperaceae (15), and Lamiaceae (12) accounting for 55% of the flora. The most frequently encountered taxon and apparent dominant was Schizachyrium scoparium (little bluestem). Community coefficients for all pairwise comparisons averaged >62%, indicating a high degree of similarity between the 22 stands. In addition, 82 species (24%) were constantly present (occurred in >80% of stands). More than two-thirds of the 311 native taxa are intraneous in distribution and the extraneous western (i.e., prairie) element is small (5%). Thirteen taxa are listed as rare elements in Kentucky and/or Tennessee and two of these 13 are federal candidates (C2). Based on historical accounts, many barrens at FCMR represent settlement-era floristic conditions and their preservation is recommended.
20433964|The Matanzas Prairie Nature Preserve is located near Bath, Mason County, Illinois, in the extensive glacial sand deposits associated with the Illinois River. This Preserve contains the only remaining high quality wet-mesic sand prairie, shrub prairie, and sedge. meadow associated with the Illinois River sand deposits. The sedge meadow, about 5 ha in size, was dominated by Carex stricta (Importance Value or IV of 66.6 out of 200), Calamagrostis canadensis, and Rosa palustris (both with IV's of 28.3). The wet-mesic sand prairie occurred on slightly higher ground and was dominated by Solidago canadensis (IV of 34.2), Andropogon gerardii (IV of 25.9), Carex stricta (IV of 21.9), Poa pratensis (IV of 18.0), and Euthamia graminifolia (IV of 17.7). Parts of the Preserve were shrub prairie with a ground layer similar to the wetmesic sand prairie community. A total of 340 species of vascular plants were encountered on the Preserve: 5 fern and fern-allies; 100 monocots; and, 235 dicots. Except for Poa pratensis, which was among the dominant species in the wet-mesic sand prairie and shrub prairie, the 38 exotic species were rarely encountered (11% of the flora). The Floristic Quality Index (including exotic species) for the sedge meadow was 38.80, the wet-mesic sand prairie 43.65, and the shrub prairie 31.76.
4033923|An exceptionally dry growing season during 1999 exposed extensive mud flats at Cave Run Lake, a flood-control reservoir in northeast Kentucky. We compared the mud flat flora in 1999 to the shoreline flora assessed in the preceding year. Excluding trees and shrubs, there were 243 plant species. Sixty-four species were found only on mud flats, 82 were only on frequently flooded shorelines, and 14 were only on infrequently flooded shorelines. As flood frequency increased, the percentage of annual species increased from 11% to 41%. Although many species found on mud flats were also found on frequently flooded shorelines (coefficient of similarity = 0.39), the highest coefficient of similarity (0.40) was calculated for another mud flat on the Scioto River ca. 90 km from Cave Run Lake. This suggests that reservoir sediments may accumulate seeds from both local and regional floras.
24619716|Landscape scale analysis of the vegetation of the Pine Mountain Range of west-central Georgia revealed fourteen plant communities. This unique mountain chain at the southern border of the Piedmont has a plant composition with a mixture of Appalachian, Piedmont, and Coastal Plain species. Dry ridgetops supported Pinus palustris and Quercus laevis, while steep moist slopes have Kalmia latifolia and Rhododendron minus as a component. Communities on calcareous soils include ridgetops with an Aesculus pavia midstory and savannah-like areas with an overstory of P. palustris and understory of Gymnopogon brevifolius and Rhus aromatica. Quercus georgiana was common and widespread in the southern portions of the range, especially in FDR State Park. The moist valleys have provided a refuge for Appalachian and Coastal Plain species, while the uplands harbor P. palustris ecosystems and a Castanea dentata stand. Due to the unique species composition, conservation efforts should focus on returning fire as an ecosystem component and protecting the area from human development and fragmentation.
4033521|A quantitative vegetational analysis was conducted on the Third Chickasaw Bluff of Shelby County, Tennessee using quadrat sampling. The study revealed five distinct communities ranging from ridges and dry slopes, moist slopes, streambeds and ravines, bottomland hardwoods to cypress swamp. Coefficients of similarity show that the composite vegetation composition has a closer relationship to the loess bluffs of Vicksburg, Mississippi than the bluffs of northwest Tennessee. Furthermore, the vegetative composition of the study area is more similar to those described in the Cumberland Plateau region far to the east than to the adjacent alluvial plain.
4033153|Beechnuts were collected during the fall of 1978 from six high-elevation beech forests of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Comparisons of seed viability were made between these high-elevation forests and low-elevation beech forests in middle and east Tennessee, and southwest Virginia. Viability was tested by tetrazolium, field germination, and laboratory germination tests. High-elevation beechnuts were found to have a germinative capacity of 72.26% (284/383) and low-elevation nuts 71.12% (431/606). Naturally occurring seedlings were found growing in the high-elevation forests in the spring of 1979. The conclusion is that these forests possess the capacity to reproduce via seed.
4032964|A polyspecies complex including six Viola species and several hybrid forms was found in Poole Knobs Recreation Area, LaVergne (Rutherford County), Tennessee. A total of seven contiguous colonies was located, including approximately 200 individuals, a number of which were considered hybrids based on exomorphology. Species involved were V. palmata, V. missouriensis, V. sororia, V. triloba, V. hirsutula, all acaulescent blue violets, and V. pubescens, a caulescent yellow violet. Most hybrids appeared fertile except for one, and two possibilities as to its origin are presented. A considerable range extension for V. palmata is noted. This group represents one of the largest arrays of violets occurring sympatrically reported to date.
4034010|Crataegus harbisonii Beadle has been relocated in its type locality of Nashville, Tennessee. Through evaluation of flowering and fruiting material derived from the newly discovered specimens, the taxonomic distinction of this species is validated by comparison with the closely related species Crataegus triflora Chapm.
4032663|Morrenia odorata (Hooker & Arnott) Lindley and Araujia sericofera Brotero are keyed, described, and illustrated. The weedy nature of these species in citrus groves is discussed.
4034295|Herbaceous vegetation monitoring results are reported for serpentine oak savanna (Quercus marilandica and Q. stellata) in Soldiers Delight Natural Environment Area and Wildlands for the period 1992-2003. Monitoring was initiated after unexpectedly finding savanna habitat during a grassland restoration project. Two small areas (each about 0.2 ha) were discovered on the east side of adjacent northwest-facing ridges, by clearing Virginia pine forest (Pinus virginiana) during the winter of 1991/1992. Permanent plot sampling of one of the areas began in 1992, and contiguous grassland vegetation was sampled for comparison. The area was included in a prescribed burn in November 1997 (post-freeze). The herbaceous layer in the savanna was depauperate at the beginning of the study; total herbaceous species cover was only 16.4%, and half of it was produced by only two species, Dichanthelium depauperatum and D. sphaerocarpon. Before the end of the study, total species cover had almost tripled to 46.2%, and little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium) had become the dominant species. Species richness in the savanna increased almost 50% during the period due to taxa that also occurred in the grassland with only one exception. But 14 grassland species were not sampled in the savanna, and community indices of similarity were low suggesting important habitat differences.
4032662|Presettlement forest communities in Louisiana, north of the Red River, were reconstructed by the Point-Quarter method, using 1062 bearing trees (36 species) recorded in land surveys of 1813-1814. Swamp hardwoods adjacent to the Mississippi, Black, and Ouachita rivers were dominated by white oak; subdominants included red oak, cypress, water oak, hickory, and sweetgum. The Tributary Bottomland Hardwoods Community, a rich species assemblage, included ironwood, white oak, hickory, sweetgum, beech, bay, holly, maple, and sassafras. Low Pleistocene terraces supported a Flatwoods Community co-dominated by pines, white oak, and red oak. An Upland Pine Forest occupied Tertiary sediments of the Kisatchie Wold (probably dominated by longleaf pine in the south, shortleaf pine to the north). Prior to European settlement, natural fires and Indian cultivation practices prohibited hardwood invasion of the uplands and allowed pines to dominate. Fire and cultivation produced prairies on edaphically favorable sites.
4034087|Betsch Fen is a 14 ha fen in south central Ohio and is among the largest and least disturbed periglacial fens of the region. Of the 107 taxa of vascular plants recorded during surveys conducted in 1994-96 only five were non-native, and those five were found predominantly in the riparian forest which bordered the fen proper. Significant populations of eight state-listed species were present (Carex tenera, Carex trichocarpa, Filipendula rubra, Gentiana procera, Parnassia glauca, Potentilla fruticosa, Sanguisorba canadensis, and Solidago ohioensis) as well as populations of the rare spotted turtle (Clemmys guttata) and the Baltimore checkerspot butterfly (Euphydryas phaeton). A narrow band of riparian forest bordering a stream divides Betsch fen into two fen areas. The northern fen was covered by sedge meadow in which Carex stricta was the dominant. In contrast, the southern fen included areas of open marl flat typified by Juncus brachycephalus, Rhynchospora capillacea, and Scirpus acutus, sedge meadow, shrub meadow dominated by Salix exigua and various fen indicator herbs, and distinct, monospecific patches of Acorus calamus. Ground water alkalinity varied among community types with areas dominated by Acorus calamus having the greatest alkalinity and the bordering forest the lowest. Analysis of a 56 year record of aerial photos indicates that the northern fen has been stable in size whereas the southern fen has expanded since the site was acquired by The Nature Conservancy. The information presented here supplies a baseline for monitoring the efficacy of the management efforts on-going in this unique remnant.
40793287|Conseola corallicola is a rare cactus that is known from just two islands in Florida, Little Torch Key and Swan Key. The appearance of the cactus-eating moth, Cactoblastis cactorum, in the 1980s, threatened its survival. Outplantings at various locations were made in the 1990s and early in the 21st century to try to boost population sizes in the field and to determine optimal outplanting conditions. Here, I examine the survival of these cacti and compare it to the survival of volunteers around the bases of parent plants at Little Torch Key. I correlate percent survival in all locations with soil nutrients. Survival of recruits in outplantings was lower than that of volunteers around parent plants. Transplant experiments showed the physical act of replanting did not reduce survival. Cacti planted close to individuals of prickly pear cactus, Opuntia stricta, suffered from attack by Cactoblastis as they spilled over from O. stricta onto corallicola outplantings. Survival of cacti planted far away from O. stricta was often low because of poor soil quality and high mortality from crown rot. Where cacti were not killed by Cactoblastis, survival was greatest where soil nutrient content and water content were highest. Soil fertilization did not increase survival rates, but did increase survivor growth. Future restoration of C. corallicola in the Florida Keys is likely to prove difficult. As Cactoblastis spreads throughout the United States and Mexico, these same issues will likely be faced by Cactoblastis-susceptible cacti in many other locations.
4033241|The vascular flora of Lilley Cornett Woods was investigated for two growing seasons (May 1978-October 1979). Collections included old growth plant communities as well as successional forests and old fields. A total of 516 vascular plant species, representing 92 families and 297 genera is included in the floral list. The Asteraceae and Poaceae are the two largest families and represent 21.71% of the flora. Two species, Monotropsis odorata Schwein, and Panax quinquefolius L., are considered threatened in Kentucky. The floristic richness is comparable to other areas in the southern Appalachians. Lilley Cornett Woods is a Registered National Natural Landmark (U.S. Dept. of Interior, National Park Service) and represents a stable remnant of the once expansive Mixed Mesophytic Forest region near the center of development of the Eastern Deciduous Forest.
4034104|Sarracenia purpurea L. ssp. venosa (Raf.) Wherry var. montana Schnell & Determann var. nov. of sphagnous seep bogs of the southern Appalachians differs from vars. venosa and burkii in that the distal halves of the hood lobes are closely incurved adaxially and either touch or nearly touch, and the hairs lining the hood are shorter.
4034182|A descriptive floristic study of the vascular flora and plant communities was conducted at the John B. Stephenson Memorial Forest State Nature Preserve in Rockcastle County, Kentucky, during the growing seasons of 1997-98. This 51-hectare rugged natural tract of the Berea College Forest, formerly known as Anglin Falls Ravine, is the 36th Kentucky State Nature Preserve. The vascular flora consists of 98 families, 310 genera, and 538 species (56 of these non-native). Species are classified into Lycopodiophyta (4), Polypodiophyta (29), Pinophyta (5), and Magnoliophyta (500). The four largest families in species are the Asteraceae (79), Poaceae (46), Cyperaceae (35), and Fabaceae (20). Eleven plant communities are described from field survey and plant sampling work. Seven are forested, two are microhabitats within those seven communities, one is a wetland meadow, and one is a culturally disturbed community. The Preserve supports an excellent example of protected Mixed Mesophytic Forest in the Northern Cumberland Plateau of Kentucky.
4032652| The vegetation in the coastal dunes of South Carolina was sampled by the quadrat method. Thirty-five 1 m
4034268|A floristic survey was conducted of the Elk and Bison Prairie, Land Between The Lakes National Recreation Area during the growing seasons of 2003 and 2004. The 265.5 ha fenced enclosure lies 1.0 km from Golden Pond, Kentucky, in western Trigg County within the Western Highland Rim of the Interior Low Plateau Province. Seven major plant habitats are: cool season grassland, warm season grassland, oak-hickory forest, loblolly pine forest, corral gravel, corral pasture, and wet pond borders. Vascular plants consist of 497 specific and infraspecific taxa in 273 genera from 93 families. Ninety-four (18.9%) were exotics. Plant representation is seven Polypodiophyta, four Pinophyta, and 486 Magnoliophyta (129 Liliopsida, 357 Magnoliopsida). The largest families in species richness were the Poaceae (75), Asteraceae (71), Fabaceae (46), Cyperaceae (25), Lamiaceae (20), and Rosaceae (15). The largest genera were Carex (17), Panicum (15), Lespedeza (9), Desmodium (8), Eupatorium (8), and Juncus, Quercus, and Solidago (7 each). Carex gravida, Uvularia sessilifolia, and Vulpia myuros were documented for the first time from the Land Between The Lakes National Recreation Area.
4033922|A three-year floristic analysis of the mosses of Dysart Woods, an old-growth forest in Belmont County, Ohio, led to the collection of 39 taxa distributed among 17 families and 28 genera. Species and frequency of occurrence varied considerably between slope aspect (north vs. south) and among substrate types. Six and 13 species were collected exclusively from the north- and south-facing slopes, respectively, and 20 species were common to both slope aspects. Woody debris was the most floristically diverse substrate on north-facing slopes (65% of species) while woody debris and exposed soil on a hiking trail were equally important habitats on south-facing slopes (39 and 33% of species, respectively). Twenty of the species collected at Dysart Woods represent new reports for Belmont County. The collections from this study bring the number of families, genera, and species of Belmont County to 29, 57, and 82, respectively.
4034040|The vascular flora of a predominantly forested tract which includes floodplain and terrace of the Tombigbee River and some adjacent hills and ravines in northeastern Choctaw County, Alabama, was surveyed during 1994 to 1996. The mature mixed-oak bottomland forest portion of the study area included ten 2 to 3-year-old small harvested openings, each opening a rectangle of about 0.32 ha (0.8 ac). In the survey, 450 vascular plant species representing 293 genera in 111 families were collected. Of these, 271 species appear to represent new collection records from Choctaw County. The harvested patches, which were representative of a group selection silvicultural system, retained most of their preharvest species while allowing establishment of 35 species not found elsewhere in the study area.
4034171| Amaranthus pumilus, a federally threatened species that inhabits the transient and highly variable barrier beach environment of the United States, has been extirpated from nearly three-fourths of its historic range. This study ascertained habitat requirements and determined how certain biotic and abiotic factors influence A. pumilus populations on Figure Eight Island, North Carolina. Data obtained were then compared to findings of Cakile edentula studies (C. edentula is common throughout the range of A. pumilus) in an effort to explain differences in range and abundance. Scarification and temperatures of 35C enhanced seed germination. The majority of A. pumilus plants were found on overwash fans. Mortality was greatest following storm periods that inundated seedlings through four tidal cycles. Density of seedlings had no affect on mortality rate. No evidence was found for biological control of A. pumilus populations. Maximum seedling emergence from burial by sand was less than 1 cm. Amaranthus pumilus populations on Figure Eight Island appeared to be physically rather than biologically controlled. Characteristics such as a shorter growing season and inability to emerge from depths greater than 1 cm may be adaptive disadvantages when compared with C. edentula. 
4032406|Study of secondary xylem of some species representing the subtribes Barlerieae, Andrographideae, Eujusticieae and Dicliptereae of the Justicieae of BENTHAM and HOOKER, suggests that Barlerieae are the most primitive subtribe. Separation of Barlerieae in the Englerian system from the tribe Justicieae has been supported. But separation of Ecbolium in a different taxon, Odontonemeae in the latter system of classification does not find justification.
4032816|Quadrats were used to sample eight deciduous forest communities in Abner's Hollow, Adams County, Ohio. Coefficients of similarity were calculated for the overstories, woody understories, and herbaceous understories of the eight communities. Slope exposure was of little importance, but parent material was strongly correlated with the distribution of the communities. Dolomite/limestone parent material supported a mixed overstory of Liriodendron tulipifera, Fraxinus americana, Quercus alba, and others. Shale parent material vegetation was dominated by Quercus prinus and Acer rubrum. Sandstone parent material had an overstory dominated by Acer saccharum, Quercus prinus, and, at times, Sassafras albidum. Greater similarity between the woody understories than between the overstories was evidence for a degree of convergence between these community types in the future.
4034007|Much of the change in biodiversity in the last 200 years at historic Mount Vernon, home of George Washington, has been by means of the introduction of species from other parts of the world. A total of 270 vascular plant species, including 69 alien species, are reported from the forest of Mount Vernon. Castanea dentata (Marshall) Borkh. is one native species now absent from the forest of Mount Vernon.
4033072|Two landslide scars (slide tracks) were plot sampled one and two years after landsliding to determine plant species involved in ecesis. The study site is located in a blockfield cove on Massanutten Mountain, northern Virginia. Old growth forest, adjacent to the slide tracks, is composed primarily of hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) and sweet birch (Betula lenta). These species are the first and foremost colonizers on the slide tracks. Dendrochronological analysis shows that landsliding is frequent at the study site and this disturbance may impart non-equilibrium conditions on the forest. Seed bed characteristics, light availability, and mode of dispersal may be important factors in plant ecesis on slide tracks.
4032920|The best-preserved wet prairie remnant in the Oak Openings is the Irwin Prairie, located in Spencer Township, Lucas County, Ohio. This study is the first complete analysis of the flora of Irwin Prairie and the adjacent wooded areas. A thorough description of the six plant communities was made. Two hundred and fifty-three species of vascular plants were collected and placed in the herbarium at Bowling Green State University. The flora of this treeless area is composed mostly of widespread, coastal plain, and northern elements of the flora of northeastern United States. Irwin Prairie appears to be virgin and has been affected only by drainage.
4032422|Panicum ravenelii, Berchemia scandens, and Lonicera dioica var. glaucescens are reported as new to the Illinois flora. Other unusual collections are also noted.
4034233|Monotropa uniflora has a disjunct geographical distribution. One part of the distribution encompasses much of North America, a second part extends throughout Central America and a third part runs through eastern Asia. The present study, based on large ribosomal subunit (26S) rRNA gene sequence data, suggests that M. uniflora from Asia, North America, and Central America are each molecularly diverged and phylogenetically distinct.
27742895|Sandhill Research and Education Center is located on 215 ha of greenspace in South Carolina. The Center is now surrounded by suburban development. Although located within the Sandhills region and within the historic range of the Longleaf Pine Forest, agriculture has been the predominant land use during the last century. With development pressure and an interest in transitioning from agriculture to ecological restoration, a baseline inventory of the flora was initiated to provide further guidance to administrators. This survey delineates six plant community types (Swamp Tupelo, Sand Hickory, Blackjack Oak, Turkey Oak, Field, and Utility Right-of-Way) and reports a total of 328 species in 237 genera and 100 families. It adds two state records (Lespedeza virgata and Lotus corniculatus), 38 county records, and several noteworthy species.
4033402| Live oak leaves and soil samples were collected from 16 sites from south Georgia and northcentral Florida. The sclerophyll index (crude fiber  100/crude protein) varied from 204 to 507. Much of the site to site variation (
4033330|Calloway County is located in the southeastern corner of the Jackson Purchase Area in the western third of Kentucky. The Jackson Purchase Area is the only section of Kentucky that contains coastal plain sediments. Calloway County consists of 99,460 hectares of which 43 percent is under cultivation. Forty-nine habitats, such as wet low-land and dry upland forests, outcrops, gravel pits, various disturbed areas, prairies, old fields, inundated shorelines, ponds, floodplains, seeps, and mud flats, were systematically collected from April 1981 to October 1986. Also the Murray State University (MUR) and the Athey (MEM) herbaria were searched for specimens previously collected in Calloway County, Kentucky. The 1018 species, subspecies and varieties representing 462 genera and 129 families found to occur within Calloway County, Kentucky are presented in an annotated checklist.
