23790352|The impact of high temperature stress, normally encountered during grain development phases in wheat under late sown conditions, was studied by measuring grain growth rate (mg day 1 grain 1 ), grain yield (g plant 1 ) in relation to ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) activity (nmol mg 1 min 1 ), a key regulatory enzyme in starch biosynthesis. The experimental material comprised nine genetically diverse homozygous genotypes of spring wheat and their six F 1 s. These were grown in randomised block design with three replications at CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, India on two dates of sowing 26th November, 2007 (timely, E1) and 24th December, 2007 (late, E2). The rate of grain growth was greatly reduced as temperature increased in late sown environment. Grain growth rate among the parental genotypes was highest in UP 2425 and cross PBW 343  PBW 435 in both the environments. Mean ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) activity was maximum at 14 days after anthesis in timely sown while in late sown the activity was maximum at 21 days after anthesis in PBW 435, EIGN 1 and EIGN 8 and crosses EIGN 8  UP 2425, EIGN 1  Raj 3765 and PBW 343  PBW 435. A significant positive association in both timely and late sown environments was evident between grain yield and grain growth rate, while in late sown environment, strong positive and significant correlation was observed between grain yield and grain growth rate and also between grain growth rate and AGPase activity in crosses PBW 343  WH 283, PBW 343  WH 542 and PBW 343  PBW 435. This suggested that increase in grain growth rate and AGPase activities resulted in increase in grain yield and have considerable impact on the yield performance of wheat.
23781481|The effects of population density on height selection in spring durum wheat Triticum turgidum L. var durum) were evaluated in 1978 and 1979 at the North Dakota Agricultural Experiment Station. Height selection using a simulated segregating population was equally effective at 21.5 and 43 plants/m2 densitites.
90003015|The aim of our research was to measure the effect of different tillage methods on the CO
23782993|Intergeneric crosses of H.geniculatum All (2n=28) with S.cereale L.(2n=28) were made using embryo culture. The tetraploid hybrids obtained were incompletely fertile. After self-pollination or backcrossing with diploid rye, these hybrids set seeds. Cytological examination of a single plant from the self-pollinated seeds revealed 14 chromosomes (7 barley and 7 rye chromosomes). The triploid offspring from backcrosses of the tetraploid hybrids with diploid rye had 21 chromosomes (7 barley and 14 rye chromosomes). Fertile plants were identified among these BC1 21 chromosome plants.
90003478|Toxicity, chemical stability, bioaccumulation, and long-range transport of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) cause environmental and human health hazards, and demand the cleanup of remnants from previous applications. Phytoremediation uses living higher plants for the removal and biochemical decomposition of environmental pollutants and became a front-runner among cleanup technologies. The efficiency of plants as detoxifiers, filters or traps has been proven in cleaning up soils polluted with crude oil, explosives, landfill leachates, metals, pesticides, and solvents. Although phytoremediation of POPs is made very difficult by their low bioavailability, recent literature indicated that some plants (primarily those belonging to the Cucurbitaceae family) are capable of taking up significant amounts of POPs and accumulate them in their tissues. A joint French-Hungarian research project will investigate the possibility of phytoremediation of POPs.
23784269|Hexaploid Triticale heterogenity with meiotic irregularities is well known. The aim of this work was to assay genetic variability at two different levels: varietal and intravarietal. Varieties studied during the bi-annual period 85/86 were:Don Frank (DF) Cachirulo (C), Jenkins TA 203 (J), Don Santiago (DS) and Rosner (R). Study index was the number of healthy microspores as compared with micronuclei. It was found that DF, C and J were cytologically stable. During three years, 87,88 y 89, ten lines for each variety (DF and J), were assayed with different and opposite cytologic traits. In addition to the cytologic variable already mentioned, the number of seeds per spike and the main spike were assayed. Variance assay for cytologic index of these lines revealed significant differences only for DF variety. A significant and positive correlation between cytologic variation and the number of seeds per spike was observed.
23784255|Genetics of field resistance to leaf rust of wheat was studied involving six generations, P1,P2,F1,F2, B1 (F1  P1), B2 (F1  P2) during 1985-86 and seven generations, P1, P2, F1, F2, F3, B1S (B1self) and B2S (B2 self) during 1986-87 of a cross HD 2009  WH 147. Field resistance was found to be partially dominant; controlled by three, possible more genes. Generation mean analyses revealed that both additive and non-additive gene effects were important in the inheritance of field resistance. Additive component maintained similar magnitude, whereas relative magnitude of non-additive components were variable in differents years. The two wheat cultivars HD 2009 and WH 147 appeared to have different major and/or minor genes for field resistance. Leaf rust resistance genes, Lr 13 present in both the parents was found to be ineffective against the population of Indian races of leaf rust of wheat. Transgressive segregation for both field resistance and susceptibility were identified in the F2 population. Segregation in F3 progenies of transgressive segregants for field resistance and generation mean analyses indicated the importance of both additive and non-additive gene effects for the occurrence of transgressive segregants for yield resistance in the F2 population.
23784295|Eleven Zea mays L. varieties were tested for acid phosphatase activities in excised roots treated with solutions containing 0, 10, 50, 100, 1 000 and 5 000 uM Al. The varieties Tuxpeno Caribe, Shaba I and Bandundu had the highest root acid phosphatase activities in Al treatments relative to the control. There was a correlation between root acid phosphatase levels under A1 stress and the differential A1 tolerance exhibited by Zea mays L. varieties in field trials.
23783648|Pollen from a single cross hybrid (A 632 x HMv 301) was kept in a desiccator under low humidity (RH 20%) for 48 and 72 hours at 1 C. After this cold storage, pollen samples were used for artificial pollinations. Seeds set by the cold stored pollens were separated by their position on the cob (lower, middle and upper part). Dissociated seeds had been germinated at constant 8 C temperature in a germinator for 32 days. Germination of seeds set by pollen cold stored for 72 hours began earlier and percentage of germination was significantly higher than that of the control. Moreover, there were considerable differences in the ability and speed of germination of the seeds situated in different parts of the cob. The best was the lower part of the cob. The results indicate that pollen storage at 1 C causes selection pressure and applied to pollen may alter the physiological performance of the following generation.
23786773|In recent years, some wheat cultivars suited for bread making had been developed to satisfy the demand of bread flour industry in China. In this study, these cultivars were compared with Chinese popular high-yielding cultivars and foreign high quality wheat to determine their difference in protein content and SDS sedimentation volume which was evaluated as an indicator of loaf volume potential of the flour samples. The results showed that the Chinese good quality cultivars were simmilar to the foreigh quality cultivars and significantly better than the high-yielding cultivars in these quality traits. These indicated that the breeding for high bread-making quality in China had advanced rapidly.
90003386|We have been studied some agricultural factors (plant density, fertilization) the crop year (different water supply years: 2007.= dry, 2008.= optimal) effect on the yields of the corn in different crop-rotation (mono-, bi-, triculture) in long term experiment, on chernozem soil in the Hajdsg.
90002651|For studying the long-term effect of meliorative liming, a field experiment was set up in four replications, at three production sites, during the year 2006. Besides the control combinations (not treated with lime), a lime-dose calculated upon the Hungarian Liming Recommendation System (that is based on the hydrolytic acidity) and the half of this dose resp. were added to the treatment combinations. A year later, soil samples were taken from each sites and plots, and a pot-experiment on the basis of Mitscherlich was set up, with perennial ryegrass (
90002683|In a 30 m transect soil-plant interrelations and vegetation boundaries influenced by edaphic factors were studied with moving split window (MSW) techniques. Boundaries between vegetation patches were sharp lines on the basis of both visual observation and MSW analysis but the boundaries between the different soil sections separated by MSW analysis were wider. Factor analysis showed that in the four vegetation sections separated by MSW the correlation coefficients were significant between plant and soil at p<0.01.
23786142|We have produced transgenic maize carrying Arabidopsis cyclin promoter and -glucuronidase chimeric fusion (cycB1;1At::GUS) by direct DNA uptake into embryogenic cell suspension protoplasts to study the activity of this cyclin promoter in a heterologous cell system. The transgenic maize lines exhibiting different levels of reporter gene expression show that regulatory elements from cycB1;1At gene as a dicot promoter can function in maize. Expression patterns revealed by fluorimetric, as well as, histochemical GUS reporter enzymatic assays indicated cell division-dependent expression of the GUS gene driven by this cycB1;At;1 promoter with elevated activity in proliferating cells and meristems. Treatment of tissues with inhibitors of mitosis increased the activity of cycB1;1At promoter, that suggests a link between mitotic phase of cell division and activity of cycB1;1At regulatory elements in transgenic maize.
23782948|N-banding of root tip metaphase chromosomes was used to identify isochromosomes for the long arm of chromosome 5B in a line of the wheat cultivar Chinese Spring. A comparison with the N-banding pattern of normal chromosome 5 revealed that both arms of the isochromosomes had a banding pattern identical to that of the long arm of chromosome 5B.
23788067|Authors made investigations to map the occurrence of different fungal pathogens on seeds of species and cultivars of different grass. Infection of seeds of 13 cultivars of five cultivated grass species are listed. When seeds were germinated, propagules of species from 16 genus of fungi were identified belonging to the Deuteromycota. The most frequently occurred species belonged to the Alternaria genus. Drechslera, Bipolaris, Cladosporium, Stemphylium, Epicoccum, Fusarium, Trichoderma and Penicillium were also detected. Additionally some genus of fungal pathogens were identified, which were not mentioned in Hungary until now (Embellisia, Septonema, Ulocladium, Pithomyces, Curvularia, Torula and Chaetomium).
23779092|A seven-parent diallel analysis for genetic aspects of harvest index vis-a-vis grain and biological yield in wheat showed considerable genetic variability. Though harvest index was highly correlated with grain yield, yield improvement through harvest index seems to be faster due to its high coefficient of variability, high heritability and high expected genetic advance. The variances due to both general and specific combining ability were significant for all the three characters except for grain yield where variance due to specific combining ability was not significant. The ratio, 2D/2A, fell in the range of partial dominance. Also the F1 family produced from a cross between parents with high and low harvest indices were found to be intermediate. Close agreement was observed between the per se performance and general combining ability effects of lines. The correlations between per se performance of the hybrids and their specific combining ability effects were, however, low. The crosses between two good general combining parents resulted in higher specific combining ability effects for harvest index. These results have been discussed in the light of their practical implications.
23782762|Considerable polymorphism of alcohol-soluble storage protein gliadin has been discovered in local Georgian wheat T.macha. All the 23 collection specimens of T.macha differing in morphological and other features differ in gliadin patterns as well, at least 14 of them were shown to be heterogeneous, i.e. they had more than one gliadin biotype. Comparative analysis of many different spectra of T.macha and comparison of them with gliadin patterns of some well-known T.aestivum varieties have revealed more than 30 variants of blocks of gliadin components in T.macha. By means of analysis of grains in several accidentally found hybrid plants obviously originated from uncontrolled cross-pollination between T.macha biotypes some of these variants have been proved to be blocks (groups of jointly inherited components). Twelve blocks of T.macha have been found to be identical to T. aestivum blocks in component composition. The results obtained emphasize a very close relation between different specimens of T.macha and between T.macha and T.aestivum.
90002663|Plant nutrition is a significant factor of yield and its quality. If organic and mineral fertilizers use results in yield increase, physical and chemical soil traits will also be affected. Harmony of economically and ecologically justifiable crop production is achieved by sustainable agriculture system. Investigations aimed at the above mentioned goals were carried out by field experiments on the stationary model with surface lysimeters (12 pieces) during years 2003 and 2004. Effect of organic and mineral fertilizer on primary water pollution was investigated. Series of required monitoring and measuring: climatic factors, analyses of liquid manure, soil and filtration waters as well as lysimeter weighing were conducted during winter wheat growing season. Achieved results were processed by statistically adequate methods and means of achieved values were used for results interpretation. Efficiency of mineral fertilization was higher than organic fertilization with the same nitrogen content in real climatic and pedological conditions. Pollution by nitrogen in filtration waters was higher at mineral fertilization variant. Nitrogen losses by leaching were at the stationary in positive correlation with used amount of organic and mineral fertilizer.
23782884|A commerically grown soft red winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) hybrid, its parental lines, and a pure-line control were grown in a controlled environment chamber to characterize seedlings root and shoot growth. Seedlings were grown for 37 days in plexiglass tubes (10 cm  10 cm  100 cm). Fresh weight, dry weight, and length of both the roots and shoots were recorded. The hybrid had significantly greater shoot fresh weight and dry weight than the mid-parent value, averaging 0.33 g and 0.05 g more than the mid-parent, respectively. The hybrid also had a significantly greater shoot fresh weight than the control genotype. Root length and fresh weight tended to be greater for the hybrid. Significant heterosis was found for shoot fresh weight (37.6%), shoot dry weight (38.5%) and root fresh weight (51.8%).
23786850|During the last five years in Bavaria more than 1600 wheat samples have been investigated for their content of F. graminearum propagules and the most common toxin deoxynivalenol (DON). The Fusarium risk is classified according to critical weather conditions for the primary infection of wheat ears as well as for agronomic aspects such as preceding crop, tillage system and cultivar resistance.
23786054|Net photosynthetic rates, sucrose levels, fructose 2,6-biphosphate content and the related enzyme activities were investigated in control and water stressed leaves of Triticum aestivum L. var sonalica. Fructose 2,6-bisphosphate accumulated in water stressed plants and reduced leaf photosynthesis, sucrose content and the activities of fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase and sucrose phosphate synthase. 14C-distribution into starch was more with increasing water stress while 14C-incorporation into sucrose was drastically reduced in stressed plants. Fructose-6-phosphate-2-kinase activity was extremely high in stressed plants while the activity of fructose 2,6-bisphosphatase was low. The results provide a clear evidence that low leaf water potentials result in fructose-2,6-bisphosphate accumulation, which modulates photosynthetic sucrose formation and carbon partitioning in wheat leaves.
23786770|Cytological and RAPD analyses were conducted for the genetic analysis of a dwarf form of Agropyron repens L. compared to a wild form of A. repens L. Meiotic pairing of the dwarf genotype showed significant differences from its wild type especially in the fewer number of bivalents (II) and in the higher number of uni (I)- and quadrivalents (IV). Fifteen RAPD primers were analyzed; of them, nine generated DNA polymorphisms giving genetic evidence for the differences between the wild type of A. repens and the dwarf type of A. repens.
23786057|Field trials were conducted in a semi-arid environment at Maiduguri to evaluate the effect of different sowing dates of soyabean on growth and yield of millet-soyabean intercrop. The crops were grown on a sandy loam soil in alternate single rows typical of the husbandry practices of the area. Results indicate that different sowing dates of soyabean and cropping system affected the growth and yield of soyabean more than that of millet. Early planted soyabean yielded better than late sown soyabean although the effect of soyabean on the growth of millet was not significant (p<0.05). The land equivalent ratio (LER) for millet-soyabean intercrops were mostly greater than 1.00 indicating that the mixtures were biologically more efficient than their pure stands. Millet intercropped with soyabean gave the highest land use efficiency with early sowing dates. The implication of these findings for agriculture is that short term grown soyabean can be introduced into the cropping system to diversify and increase the present scope of the crops grown without adversely diminishing the yield of the traditionally grown millet crop. The possibility of soyabean in the cropping system can also be used to break the cycle of parasitic weed, striga when soyabean substitutes cowpea occasionally.
23786183|With the aim of analysing the influence of ploidity level upon characteristics of the flag leaf vascular tissue, the paper presents an investigation conducted on the species Triticum durum Desf. and Triticum aestivum L. Using the standard anatomical method, a highly significant difference has been recorded in the height of main vein bundle, the height and the width of the large lateral bundle, the height of both main vein and large lateral bundles and the width of large lateral bundle metaxylem vessels. Stereological analysis of the flag leaf vascular tissue has pointed to a significantly greater volume of the entire flag leaf vascular tissue, the main vein and the main vein parenchyma in T. durum. In T. aestivum significantly higher volume density of the main vein xylem has been recorded. Greater and mainly positive interrelationship between characteristics of the vascular tissue and morphological characteristics of the spike has been determined in the species T. aestivum.
90003395|In some cases, the indoor CO
90003354|Nitrogen is one of the most important nutrients for plant development. It is also significant economical factor in intensive plant production systems and responsible for agriculture related pollution. Cultivars with high nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) would therefore be interesting for production. It was expected that Maksimir 3 Synthetic (M3S) maize population had genetic variability for NUE, because it was derived from local corn varieties used in low-input production systems. Field trial including 196 maize S1 progenies from third cycle of recurrent selection in M3S maize population was conducted at three locations during the 2007 growing season. Two rates of nitrogen, 0 kg ha 1 and 150 kg ha
23786904|Under controlled inoculation, a set of 10 accesions of wild Pisum sativum species, subspecies and varieties was studied for resistance to Fusarium solani and Fusarium oxysporum. The screening was carried out in a growth chamber by using tube test. The observation of visual symptoms on roots and stems showed substantial differences in the response among the Pisum sativum accessions under study. There was no complete resistance to both pathogens. Very high level of resistance was recorded in four accessions of P. sativum (W 1957, W 1824, W 1828, W 1872).
23786184|Effects of macro-nutrient and soil water shortages on the inheritance mode of the photosynthetic rate (A), transpiration rate (E), stomatal conductance (gs) and photosynthetic water use efficiency (A/E) of flag leaves were investigated in pot- and field-grown diallel sets (Ps+F2s) of spring barley. The relatively narrow genetic variation in the leaf characteristics diminished under less favourable or stress conditions. No such variation was found in the field under low NPK fertilization. Significant genotype-by-environment interactions were found only for A and E. The both GCA and SCA effects exhibited an importance for the CO2 exchange rate. The role of the additive and/or non-additive gene action for other characteristics was more erratic and altered due to the conditions used. In most cases, overdominance of genes was detected. The examined components of the gas exchange exhibited low or very low heritabilities ranging from 0.07-0.11 for A/E, followed by 0.06-0.30 for E, to 0.14-0.48 for A. These indices were much lower under field conditions and did not exceed 0.14. The results did not confirm the potential for a rapid genetic improvement of the efficiency of gas exchange of the flag leaves in spring barley of local collections.
23782956|The response of seed quality, from four cultivars of winter wheat. to different dates of harvest was tested. It was found that harvest date, cultivar and their interaction had highly significant effect on germinability, vigour and seedling growth. Dried seeds after harvesting maintained high better determinations for germinability, vigour and seedling growth than harvested seeds pre-drying. The obtained results of post drying suggest that wheat seeds can be harvested at 4o % moisture content approx., or after 240 days from sowing without any loss in viability of the seeds produced. Recommendation: the early harvest with the good quality of seed can be realized at physiological maturity, using adequate drying for the harvested fresh seeds until the moisture content decline to 8 % before planting in the subsequent season.
23783939|The studies of effects of production factors on panicle productivity of red fescue resulted in the following conclusions: 1. The nutrient supply has a primary role in the increase of number of flowers in the panicle influencing the potential yield and consequently the panicle productivity. The highest values of panicle productivity were reached as a result of NPK fertilization followed by NP, NK, N, PK, P and K fertilization. 2. Concerning this yield component the results also proved the determinative effect of nitrogen supply. In the productive years and as an average of the experimental years the number of seeds developed in one panicle was influenced mainly by the nitrogen. The number of seeds per panicle showed significant increase up to the level of 180 kg/ha N effective agent. 3. The effect of phosphorus and potassium fertilizers was considerably lower than that of the nitrogen fertilizer. The number of seeds per inflorescence was not increased at all by the potassium fertilizer, and by phosphorus fertilizer it was increased reliably only at a dose of 120 kg/ha. 4. The highest values of panicle productivity were obtained as a result of the nitrogen fertilizer applied in two doses (1/3 early autumn and 2/3 early spring) based on the average of the three years and all the other factors. 5. The result of interrelationship "amount of nitrogen effective agent x grass stand density" referred to the fact that the medium (180 kg/ha) and high (270 kg/ha) doses of nitrogen fertilizer counterbalance the depressive effect of the higher grass stand densities (stripe sowing) experienced in the controls and at low N doses. 6. The results of the experiments showed the unexpected, moderate effect of the adequate water supply (irrigation). The irrigation did not influence considerably the number of flowers and seeds per inflorescence, thus the percent of fecundation was not influenced either.
23790337|This study was aimed at elucidating numerical variation of chromosomes in newly synthesized hexaploid wheats. We carried out artificial crosses between Triticum carthlicum (2n = 4x = 28, AABB) as female parent and Aegilops tauschii (2n = 2x = 14, DD) as male parent, obtaining intergeneric F 1 hybrids (2n = 3x = 21, ABD). After self-fertilization of the F 1 hybrids having 21 somatic chromosomes, we obtained F2 seeds (synthetic hexaploid wheats), and determined their somatic chromosome number. Of the expected 150 cross combinations of F 1 hybrids between six strains of T. carthlicum and 25 strains of Ae. tauschii, 67 cross combinations of synthetic hexaploid wheats were obtained. Compared to strains of Ae. tauschii ssp. tauschii, those of Ae. tauschii ssp. strangulata produced synthetic hexaploid wheats showing euploidy with a high frequency. In addition, among strains of Ae. tauchii ssp. tauschii, those from Iran contributed more to the production of synthetic hexaploid wheats showing euploidy than those from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Turkey or the former USSR.
90002664|In this paper we discuss about possibilities of rapeseed production as a base for biodiesel production and its economic effects in rural economy in Istria. Therefore authors examined possibilities for rapeseed production and its possible transverse to oil-biodiesel. Effects of such a production chain could affect rural economy in positive ways. Authors question following effects: what are the natural resources for rapeseed production; is there sufficient rapeseed production as base for oil; how the production chain can affect rural economy. Further authors argue the hypothesis that biodiesel reproduction has possibilities for improvements in agricultural land use, employment and rural economy development.
90003090|The aim of site-specific or in other world precision farming is to collect data and perform applications using the most up-to-date technology within field. Generally speaking site specific data collection of soil parameters  such as compaction or soil moisture content  can be carried out by on-line measurement techniques and can also be mapped, in order to provide soil compaction of moisture content maps for the decision makers (farmers). According to these maps the farmers can decide the best treating method for different areas within field. With precision soil cultivation input energy can be saved as well as environmental tasks such as avoiding unnecessary tillage and/or loosening can be solved. With the help of available technology i.e. application of GPS, remote sensing, GIS, sensor applications etc. the problems caused by soil compaction can be solved or rather treated. Precipitation on the other hand can not be influenced, therefore in soil plant interaction it can be a real limiting factor. In this article role of soil compaction on within field varieties and role of precipitation in different years on precision farming is reported.
90002970|Small fragmented agricultural plots and small-size households are the basic features of agricultural land (particularly of family farms) in Croatia. Family farms that own approximately 80% of total Croatian agricultural land are the most prevailed part in production agricultural structure. More than 70% of those farms hold less than 3 ha of land which is still highly fragmented. Among the farms that own more than 3 ha of land, there is only a few of them that are solid and market orientated with capability to be competitive to import producers. Agricultural Census in 2003 encompassed 449,896 agricultural households and 1,364 legal entities that are engaged in agriculture. The size of utilized agricultural land area for all comprised units is 2.4 ha in average. Agricultural households use 1.9 ha of utilized agricultural area in average, while legal entities 159.2 ha in average. Competitiveness analysis of the major Croatian agricultural products has been conducted within the project "Competitiveness in Agriculture and EU accession - A Strategy for Croatian Agriculture". It shows that Croatian agriculture is enough productive only in maize, oil rape seed, apple and eggs production.
23783980|The cytology of hybrids between T. kotschyi, T. variabilis and both the cultivated wheat cv. Avrora, and two genome substituted forms Avrozis (AABBS1S1) and Avrodes (AABBSS) was studied. A considerable range of chromosome pairing was observed from c values of 0.029 to 0.495. The hybrids with high values of c may have the potential of providing material allowing the transfer of genes from the wild species into cultivated forms.
23787180|Three winter wheat varieties were grown in growth chambers under controlled environmental conditions at two atmospheric CO2 concentrations (375 and 750 mol*mol1) with either an ambient temperature regime or with heat stress during grain filling (max 35C, 8 hours a day for 15 days). Data on the aboveground biomass, tiller and ear number, yield components, harvest index, the protein content of the wholemeal and the functional parameters of the flour were determined after harvest. Mv Martina, a variety with very high yield potential, responded very positively to CO2 treatment, exhibiting an increase in the tiller and ear number and in the number of grains per plant, resulting in 38 % higher yield without a deterioration in the grain quality. Neither CO2 nor heat stress had a negative effect on the flour quality of this variety as the protein content and SDS sedimentation volumes increased in both treatments. Increased CO2 had less influence on the yield of the other varieties, where the grain quality either decreased or remained at a similar level after CO2 enrichment. Heat stress had a negative effect on TKW and grain yield, but this could be counterbalanced by elevated CO2 level in two varieties. Elevated CO2 and high temperature had opposite effects on the protein and gluten contents (except in Mv Martina), but the gluten index was lowest when both factors were present.
90002966|It is a predominant viewpoint in the European Union that the workforce of population is the most significant capital in every country. The objective is to employ more and more persons among working age population and have them participate in the operation of economy achieving the target set by the Lisbon Strategy. The Hungarian economy and the labour market have undergone many development phases. As regards employment the country ranks penultimate among the New Member States and it is an essential task to solve employment problems, reducing the regional differences. It is also important to study how regional conditions contribute to job creation in the case of a region of agricultural character.
90002976|The effects of three tillage systems and the post-emergence chemical weed control of annual broad-leaved weeds in winter wheat were studied on lessive pseudogley soil in north-eastern Croatia from 2001 to 2006. Total weed biomass on untreated plots was the lowest in continuous mouldboard ploughing (49.8 g m-
23783745|Somaclonal variation combined with in vitro selection is promising for breeding related to toxin and herbicide resistance. However, there is a problem that the selection at cellular level does not always contribute to the heritable trait in the regenerated plants. Therefore, we first studied the genetic nature of resistance to herbicides propanil, bentazon, benthiocarb and molinate, both at plant and cellular level. Two mutants induced by gamma irradiations which show a sensitivity to bentazon and propanil respectively, were used for the tolerance test by using seed calli together with the original variety, Norin 8. Seed calli induced from Norin 8 PS (susceptible to propanil) showed a strong growth inhibition during the culture on the medium containing 100 ppm of propanil, while the growth of calli derived from Norin 8 BS (susceptible to bentazon) exhibited also a strong inhibition at both 100 ppm plots containing propanil or bentazon. Thus, it is noted that the gene responsible for the bentazon sensitivity exerts its pleiotropic action to propanil only at the cellular level. Tolerance for two herbicides, benthiocarb and molinate, at cellular level was examined by using varieties Surjamukhi (susceptible) and Taichung 65 (tolerant). It was indicated that an inhibition of callus growth was more prominent in a sensitive variety, Surjamukhi. In somaclonal selection for resistance to herbicides, benthiocarb and bentazon, it was evident that the callus clones via the primary selection which survived on the medium containing the chemical at the highest concentration increased the tolerance on the secondary test medium with both the herbicides. In the case of salt tolerance successive selection screen callus clones survived even in the treatment with 3% NaCl. However, it is uncertain whether the increase of the tolerance is due to the genotype change or the metabolic adaptation of cultured cells. Effects of gamma radiation on anther culture was examined using the variety 'Kitaake'. The callus formation from the irradiated anthers were reduced due to the increase of gamma ray doses. Decrease of green plants regeneration and increase of albino plants compensated each other in the irradiated materials. We are aiming to enhance the frequency of somaclonal variations useful for agronomic traits by gamma radiation.
23782854|Immature embryos of the maize inbred line CHI-31 were regenerated on N-6 basal medium containing 2,5 M 2,4 D, and 2470 plantlets were obtained from somatic embryogenesis. The phenotypic variation of 554 somaclones was screened in the R2 generation. Confirmation of their genetic variation for some quantitative traits of agronomic interest was assessed in the R3 generation. Eight sublines showed significant differences in plant height and flowering date as compared to the original maize inbred line CHI-31. The study was aimed at identification of the nature and excent of somaclonal variation and substantiation of its genetic potential for maize improvement.
90003097|In 2006 we examined the differences between chernozem and meadow soils on 580 ha plough-land in the area of Hajdszoboszl. The soils examined are moderately boundy, slightly limy, they have a low salt content and they are poorly supplied with zinc. The examined chernozem soil with lime deposits is neutral, its humus, nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium content is moderate. Chernozem meadow soil is slightly alkaline, its humus, phosphorous and potassium content is satisfactory, its nitrogen content is moderate. During the comparative evaluation of these two soils we observed statistically proven differences regarding every soil feature, excluding salt content. During our examinations we managed to prove that even between soils belonging to the same soil class there can be significant differences that essentially affect the method and quantity of nutritive supplementing. Currently we do not take the soil types of the plot into consideration in every case when preparing fertilizer application maps for precision nutritive supplementing. Our research results prove that the precision fertilizing advice needs to be completed on the basis of the soil types that can be found in the area.
23787222|Yield improvement of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) should be in agreement with superior milling and baking quality characters. During the selection procedure improving quality, breeders need quick methods which are easy to put into practice and suitable for serial tests. In this study, we examined the associations among quick methods (SDS and NIR techniques) used by breeders and some milling/baking characteristics in winter bread wheat. Flour yield, farinograph index, flour water absorption, wet and dry gluten, gluten strength, Hagberg falling number, protein content (by NIR), SDS sedimentation volume were examined in 80 bread wheat samples (cultivars and advanced lines) in two crop years (1999, 2000). We did not find any relationship between the farinograph-value and gluten content in these experiments. Wheat grain protein concentration showed the strongest relationship to wet-, and dry gluten of the flour (r = 0.74, and 0.76, respectively). Positive correlations were observed between the SDS sedimentation volume and important end-use quality traits (i.e. Farinograph, Hagberg falling number) in both crop years. In spite of the large differences in the climatic conditions of the two crop years, the relationships found in this study are fairly consistent. The results show that selection for high protein concentration will lead to high gluten content but it will not lead to improvements in other end-use quality characteristics.
23782757|As a result of investigations conducted on the resistance of a large number of wheat samples tho the Cereal Leaf Beetle (CLB) Oulema melanopus L., 8 resistant entries with a complex of long and dense trichomes on the adaxial leaf surface were selected. 12 other entries were of moderate resistance which was due mainly to the greater density of trichones on the leaves. The two groups of entries cited above can be used the breeding programme as improvers of other wheats with valuable economic characters but lacking in this aspect.
23782937|Yields of four wheat blends and their eight pure-line, soft red winter wheat cultivar components were measured for 3 years on a silty clay and on a silt loam soil. The yield of only one blend on one soil was significantly different from the mean of the components averaged over the 3 years. However, on the silt loam soil, yields of all four blends were found to be more stable across years.
90003045|Understanding better the processes of N-cycle are necessary to proceed to practical, rational, environmental friendly fertilization for supplement of N-nutrition. Soil core and pot incubation experiments are used to estimate the available nitrogen capacity of the soil and the N-gaseous losses. The substance of the two methods is to determine the different nitrogen forms and the gaseous losses after the soil incubation witch happening in a defined time period and moisture levels. Modelling of the processes of the transformations is happened with the four-pools model. The pools are connected by kinetics differential equations. An essential of the experiments is that the quantity of the available nitrogen sources and the gaseous losses are possible to determine in every moment.
90003423|Allelopathy of three spreading, noxious weed species (velvetleaf 
23787559|The dwarfing genes Rht-B1b and Rht-D1b were incorporated into Indian bread wheats during the "green revolution". This led to a dramatic increase in yield as well as production of wheat. Although the presence of dwarfing genes is important, their status among the released wheat varieties is generally not known. We present an analysis of the two dwarfing genes using the PCR based "perfect markers" in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) varieties, for the first time in 45 Indian, and some non-Indian wheats. Most of the varieties analyzed had either Rht-B1b or Rht-D1b or both. The results obtained for the varieties with known Rht status validated the perfect markers. Analysis of a F2 population segregating for the dwarfing genes also confirmed the utility of these markers in genetic analysis. Analysis among some of the varieties for the GA response phenotype is also presented. The results showed that the "perfect markers" are robust enough to be used among Indian varieties.
23783667|Meiotic analysis was performed on metaphase-I chromosomes in the hybrids of five wheat varieties with Aegilops variabilis accession E which increases homoeologus chromosome pairing and, two other accessions which did not show this ability. Significant differences were found in the mean chiasma frequencies in hybrids of different wheat varieties with Ae. variabilis E (chiasma frequency range, 5.1-6.9/cell). No combination yielded a chiasma frequency equal to or more than that (13.2) observed in the hybrid, LU-26  Ae. variabilis E. Accessions A and B also showed maximum chiasma frequency after hybridization with LU-26. Significant variation in chiasma frequency occurred in respect of both wheat varieties and Aegilops variabilis accessions.
90002812|In a 25-year polyfactorial long-term experiment, we have studied the effect of irrigation and plant density on the water management of the soil and on maize yield. In all three crop rotations, the water deficit was smaller in the irrigated plots than in the non-irrigated plots (monoculture 
23789926|The CERES-rice model (version 4.0) was calibrated and validated using the data from a field experiment carried out during the rainy season of 2004 and 2005 at Shalimar, Srinagar (35 5' N latitude and 74 89' E longitude, 1587 m above the mean sea level, India. The experiment included six rice cultivars each transplanted on 25 May, 10 June and 25 June. Data of 25 May transplanting was used for model calibration and development of the genetic coefficients of the rice cultivars. The predicted and observed dates of phenological events were in close agreement with root mean square error (RMSE), mean absolute error (MAE) and D-index of 5.0 days, 4.3 days and 0.91, respectively, for anthesis and 3.7 days, 3.1 days and 0.91, respectively, for physiological maturity of the crop. The predicted and observed grain yields were also very close with a RMSE of 0.63 Mg ha1, MAE of 0.58 Mg ha1 and D-index of 0.89, respectively. Corresponding values for above ground biomass was 1.17 Mg ha1, 1.01 Mg ha and 0.82. Sensitivity test showed that simulated yield responded to temperature and atmospheric CO2 concentration. Nitrogen 240 kg ha1 at 25 May transplanting, recorded highest simulated grain yield (9.71 Mg ha1). Further, 3 seedlings hill1 produced highest simulated grain yield. The results suggest that the model can be applied in the temperate Kashmir to estimate crop productivity and optimize the management practices.
23789843|To understand the molecular details of T-DNA integration, the left border (LB) sequences and flanking plant DNA of 16 independent T-DNA insertions in transgenic cry1Ab rice were analyzed by an inverse PCR approach. DNA sequencing indicated that five of the 16 fragments (31%) were found to have simple or rearranged tandem repeats of right border sequences in a head to tail fashion. Mirror truncations of LB of the T-DNA, as well as mirror rearrangements, such as point mutations, small deletions and inversions were found in the region close to the LB breakpoints in some inserts. Host plant DNA flanking the T-DNA endpoints were also sequenced. The A+T contents in the plant DNA within 50 bp adjacent to the T-DNA endpoints were between 3076% (average 52.5%), not different from the average genome value. Despite minor mutations and some rearrangements, it appears that T-DNA, harbouring a synthetic cry1Ab coding sequence of 49% GC (as well as uidA and hph), still carries such a foreign gene into 'transcriptionally active regions' of the rice genome, which are 55.8% GC on average as predicted from the rice genome sequence.
23783820|In the three-year period, 1989-1991, the yield capacity of durum wheat was compared with that of bread wheat and barley, in order to evaluate the adaptability of the latter crops to a semi-arid environment. Four cultivars, chosen among the most grown and productive, were examined for each species. The meteorological patterns of the 3 cropping seasons were extremely diverse with particular regard to rainfall distribution, and seemed representative of the variability of the trial environment. Highly significant "species x season" and "cultivar x season" interaction was observed for grain yield and for most of the other recorded traits. In the first cropping season, which was characterized by a moderate stress, barley was the most productive species. In the second, characterized by more severe drought, bread wheat and barley achieved yields which were double that of durum wheat. In the third season, which was meteorologically favourable, no significant productive differences were found between the species. Overall, bread wheat and barley proved more reliable than durum wheat for yield in the region.
90003252|Transposon mutagenesis was applied to generate mutants in
23778600|The correlation and path analyses in winter wheat were studied from the point of view of plant-productivity formation. Plant productivity was most strictly and positively affected by number of ear-bearing stems, followed by the number of grains per ear. The number of ear-bearing stems correlated positively with the number of tillers per plant at booting stage. It is postulated that the next grain yield improvement may come through manipulation of characters participating in the reproductive value of a genotype. The search for better stem synchrony and exploitation of reserves in ear grain number potential may be recommended as a preferable way for creating higher yields. At higher nitrogen level (110 kg N) the role of the number of grains per main-stem ear and in secondary productive ear-bearing stems increased.
90003068|Climate change may affect food systems in several ways ranging from direct effects on crop production, to changes in markets, food prices and supply chain infrastructure. The relative importance of climate change for food security differs between regions. For example, in southern Africa, climate is among the most frequently cited drivers of food insecurity because it acts both as an underlying, ongoing issue and as a short-lived shock. The low ability to cope with shocks and to mitigate long-term stresses means that coping strategies that might be available in other regions are unavailable or inappropriate. In other regions, though, such as parts of the Indo-Gangetic Plain of India, other drivers, such as labour issues and the availability and quality of ground water for irrigation, rank higher than the direct effects of climate change as factors influencing food security. Because of the multiple socio-economic and bio-physical factors affecting food systems and hence food security, the capacity to adapt food systems to reduce their vulnerability to climate change is not uniform. Improved systems of food production, food distribution and economic access may all contribute to food systems adapted to cope with climate change, but in adopting such changes it will be important to ensure that they contribute to sustainability. Agriculture is a major contributor of the greenhouse gases methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O), so that regionally derived policies promoting adapted food systems need to mitigate further climate change.
23785221|The effects of donor plant growth status and preculture temperature on isolated microspore culture ability were investigated in japonica rice. Although the duration of collecting materials in the field could be extended by arranging earlier or later sowing time, donor plants sown only in normal and earlier season could grow well, and microspores of these plants had a good culture response. The plating efficiencies of the three batches of donor materials sown on different dates were 1.51, 1.45, 0.28 calli for each plated anther, respectively, and only calli derived from microspores of donor plants sown in the earlier and normal season had an ability to regenerate green plantlets. Moreover, the microspore culture efficiency could be improved by using alternative temperature during preculture stage. The preculture of rice microspores at 24C for 3 days followed by 27C for 2 days or 35C for 12 h followed by 27C for 4.5 days had a higher culture efficiency than that of precultured at a sustained temperature 27C for 5 days. Besides, the culture efficiency was declined obviously if precultured at 35C for 1 day at first.
23786164|Particle bombardment is a routine method of transformation for wheat (Triticum aestivum L). Particle bombardment parameters, explant tissue and culture, and the choices of DNA constructs are factors that affect successful transformation. This study focuses on the DNA construct. The DNA construct must have a promoter that will function properly in the plant genome for gene expression to occur. Constitutive promoters were evaluated for gene expression in a population of stably transformed wheat callus lines and plants. The promoters were fused to the -glucuronidase gene and evaluated for expression by histochemical and chemiluminescent assays. The maize ubiquitin promoter caused significantly higher levels of -glucuronidase expression in populations of callus lines and plants than the other promoters evaluated.
90003455|Soil management and tillage practices could be remarkable stress factors on structure of soil which might be ruined and therefore cause the reduction of crop yields. The effect of irrigation and fertilizers on soil structure may be diverse and often contradictory. In contrary to the often proved soil structure disrupting effect of irrigation, in our experiment, as the result of irrigation, increased aggregate water-stability was observed. In unfavorable conditions, or in large accumulation, ammonium fertilizers may cause the disruption of soil structural units, therefore decline of soil structure as it was observed in our experiment. These results were compared with the Normalized Stability Index and Mean Weight Diameter of which the second one showed significant differences among the treatments.
90003307|The ability to rapidly distinguish trichothecene chemotypes in
23785244|Using as a template genomic DNA extracted from the cultivar Ofanto of durum wheat (Triticum turgidum var. durum Desf.), and as DNA primers two oligonucleotides spanning Lipoxygenase-1 (LOX-1) gene region, evolutionary conserved in different plants, we have amplified in a PCR reaction a 1200 bp fragment. This DNA fragment has been subcloned and used to prepare probes in Slot-blot experiments. Our aim was to detect the expression LOX gene(s), at level of RNA, in different cultivars of Durum wheat. Preliminary results indicates that there are significant variations in the expression of LOX gene(s) in the tested samples, and a good negative correlation of LOX-1 mRNA levels with both semolina -carotene content and semolina yellow index of durm wheat varieties utilized. The physiological significance of this relation will be discussed.
90003375|During three years (2005-2007), small-plot field experiments with winter wheat and spring barley were carried out in the Czech Republic at two locations differing in soil and climatic conditions. Variants with contrast stand structure (different seed rates and N rates) were investigated during stem elongation. Analyses involved determination of individual plants and tillers, above-ground biomass and nitrogen uptake. Two types of relationships were observed as reaction to the level of sources and its effect as stress factor - relationships among plants which are more or less of a random nature and intra-plant relationships dependent on the hierarchic structure of plants. Plant responses were reflected in variability of their tillers. A higher inter-plant competition was expressed by lower values of the coefficient of variation (CV) of the plant weight and the number of tillers per plant. On the other hand, intra-plant competition increased values of the CV of the shoot weight. During stem elongation, the differentiation of tillers into two groups, i.e. vegetative and potentially productive, take place. This was accelerated by the lack of nitrogen or by a higher plant density. The separation of shoots into two groups enabled to determine the proportion of the potentially productive biomass in the total above-ground biomass. A low variability of this proportion (CV ranged from 7.06 to 15.79 % and from 7.37 to 17.46 % for winter wheat and spring barley, respectively) gives a possibility to use it as the indicator of the effectiveness of inputs and of a crop productive potential. These may contribute to the development of more efficient methods for canopy control and assessment of stress factors by using canopy spectral characteristics.
23787203|Durum wheat is indigenous to Ethiopia and is planted extensively by small-scale farmers. Drought stress is one of the major constraints faced by farmers. The main aim of this study was to evaluate the expression of drought tolerance in the parents and F1 progeny of a six by six half diallel cross, made with two drought tolerant, two intermediate, one moderately susceptible and one susceptible parent. Parents and the 15 F1 hybrids were evaluated at a maximum of 35 and 70% available soil moisture in a glasshouse. Analysis of variance revealed significant variability for yield, yield components, and drought tolerance measurements. Drought tolerance was expressed in the crosses involving tolerant parents, and was controlled predominantly by additive genes. The diallel analysis revealed that mean squares for both GCA and SCA were significant at both moisture levels. GCA: SCA ratios indicated predominance of additive gene actions for all characteristics measured, although non-additive genes also played a role, particularly in the absence of stress. GCA effects were mainly positive. GCA effects as well as their rankings were significantly affected by moisture stress. SCA effects were also mainly negative. Considerable variability in SCA values between the two moisture levels were found.
23786049|Wheat breeding and improvement of agronomic practice are main reasons for the increasing trend of wheat grain yields in Croatia. The objective of this study was to estimate breeding progress in grain yield and related changes for some wheat cultivar characteristics. Seven winter wheat cultivars (Triticum aestivum L. em. Thell) released between 1954. and 1985. in Croatia were evaluated in experiments during 1994. and 1995. year at one location. Estimated genetic gain in grain yield for 1954.-1985. period was 54.35 kg ha1 y1 or 0.875 % yearly, and relative genetic gain was 30.65 kg ha1 y1 or 0.44 % yearly. Linear regression of cultivar means on year of release showed increase of 41.99 kg ha1 y1 or 0.6 % yearly. Linear regression between year of production and averaged grain yield was 89.1 kg ha1 yearly. These estimates indicate that wheat breeding has contributed 47.1 % of total increase in grain yield in Croatia in period 1954. to 1985. year.
23785314|Austrian grown winter and spring wheat cultivars were investigated for their HMW glutenin subunit composition and their bread making quality. For quality evaluation indirect parameters, rheological characteristics and the loaf volume were measured. Rank correlation analyses between quality parameters and scores for HMW glutenin subunit compositions, and analyses of variance for the quality parameters were calculated. The results proved the positive influence of the HMW glutenin subunits 7+9 and 5+10 and showed that the positive effect of 7+9 can partially be explained by the higher protein amount of subunit 7, compared to subunit 6, whereas the positive effect of 5+10 compared to 2+12 must be due to qualitative properties of these subunits.
23790361|Wheat grain samples were drawn from a field experiment conducted for 2 years at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, India to study protein, hardness score index, sedimentation value, Zn and Fe concentration in organically and conventionally grown wheat. An aestivum and a durum cultivar were included in the study. Protein concentration in both the cultivars was more in conventionally grown than in organically grown wheat. Grain hardness was not influenced by nutrient management but sedimentation value was higher when wheat was conventionally grown. On the other hand, Zn concentration in both the cultivars was more in organically grown (wiht farmyard manure) than in conventionally grown wheat. Application of Azotobacter reduced Zn concentration in both the cultivars. The two cultivars, however, differed in respect of Fe concentration in wheat grain. Triticum aestivum cultivar 'HD 2733' had significantly more Fe in wheat grain when organically grown compared to that when grown conventionally, while the reverse was true in the case of Triticum durum cultivar 'PDW 215'. Azotobacter inoculation reduced Fe concentration in wheat in both the cultivars; reduction was more in Azotobacter culture W 5 .
23783892|callus cultures were established and regenerants (somaclones) obtained from immature and mature embryos and coleoptile nodes of wheat cv. Sonalika on MS medium supplemented with various concentrations and combinations of auxins and cytokinins. Variation was observed for morphological traits such as albinism, sterility, grass-dwarfism, dwarfism, supernumerary heads, plant height and multi-floreted spikes. Variability for different plant morphological traits was greatest among regenerants derived from coleoptile nodes compared to those from other explants. Five regenerants were found resistant and three moderately resistant to a widely prevalent and highly virulent race 77A (109 R 31) of Puccinia recondita tritici in the R1 generation. However, all the regenerants showed susceptible reaction to race K (47 S 102) of P. striiformis.
23792378|Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) analyses were conducted in a mapping population of 91 F 2 plants derived from a cross between two ahu rice cultivars of Assam, Cheni ahu (dormant, Oryza sativa ssp. indica) and Kolong (non-dormant, Oryza sativa ssp. indica) in order to identify genomic regions affecting seed dormancy and the duration of dormancy. The linkage map based on 70 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers detected two QTLs for seed dormancy (qSD5, qSD11) and one QTL for duration of dormancy (qSDD5), and came from the dormant parent. The levels of dormancy increased with the presence of any one of the QTLs but qSD5 had larger effect on increasing dormancy, indicating that dormancy could be effectively enhanced by more than one QTL. The QTLs detected could be used to develop near-isogenic lines (NILs) for map-based cloning of seed dormancy in rice, thus to improve the understanding of dormancy of indica rice.
90003215|
               
23783006|Seeds of two cultivars of spring wheat were obtained from the trial of different rates of NPK application. Seed germination and seedling growth were tested in the laboratory before and after aging. Effects were found more significant in case of aging than without. Data indicated that germinability and seedling characteristics were highly affected by temperature, fertilizer and cultivar. The good results of considered characters were realized by the treatment at 20 C and level of 180 kg N/ha. The N content of grain was slightly increased with the increase of N-application, while the content of P and K were approximately constant. However, increasing N content of seed arising from an application of N or NPK fertilization increased the rate of germination and resulted larger seedlings.
23778573|A nine-parent diallel F1 and F2 crosses separately of normal and mutagen treated (EMS 0.4%) parents were studied for combining ability for leaf-rust reaction in spring wheat. Both GCA and SCA variances were highly significant, however, the magnitude of GCA variances were higher as compared to SCA variances. The estimates of GCA variance had increased while those of SCA effect had decreased in the progenies of EMS treated parents. The SCA variance was relatively smaller in the F2s as compared to the F1s. The cultivars Norteno M67, S 331 and Sonalika possessed desirable and highly significant GCA effects. The GCA effects, in general, had increased in the treated populations. Per se performance of the parents was related with their GCA effect. The high x low crosses exhibited higher SCA effects than the high x high.
90003190|Two QTL from spring wheat were back-crossed into several European winter wheat lines. Although the level of FHB severity depended to a large extent on the genetic background of the recurrent parent, marker assisted selection proofed efficient in increasing the level of FHB resistance of winter wheatbreeding lines.
90003022|In Hungary, common milkweed (
23783898|Exotic sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) cultivars namely, Q1-3 India, SC 326-6, TX 398, SC 167 and a local land race, Ware-waren bashi, were highly susceptible to anthracnose while IS 2057, TX 434, SC 120, KSV 4, KVS 8 and another land race, Yarwasha, were highly resistant to infection. SC 748-5, TX 398, and IS 2057 were highly resistant to charcoal rot and long smut while QL-3 India, KSV 4, KSV 8, Yarwasha, SC 244, Ware-waren bashi and SC414.-12E were highly susceptible. In seed dressing trials, Apron plus 50 DS, Rovral TS, Fernasan D and Vitavax 200 were ineffective against anthracnose, charcoal rot and long smut. Interaction between cultivars and seed treatment was not significant and as a result, observed differencses in various disease incidences and severities as well as grain yield were attributable to the effect of cultivar.
23787176|In Argentina, head blight is a highly risky disease (caused by Fusarium graminearum), although its occurrence is sporadic depending on prevalent environmental variables. These traits stimulated the development of predictive models of head blight occurrence which would help growers in the selection of control strategies. Empirical equations for predicting head blight incidence were developed at Pergamino (33 56 S, 60 30 W) associating temperature and moisture variables with mean disease data. Recently a new fundamental-empirical approach for estimating Fusarium index (incidence% x severity%/100) was developed using data of Pergamino and Marcos Jurez (32 41 S, 6207 W). In this study our objective was to validate both approaches at three more southern locations: La Dulce (38 10 S, 58 00 W), Miramar (38 00 S, 57 33 W) and Balcarce (37 45 S, 58 18W), for the 2001 crop season. Examining partial and mean deviation values between observed and predicted incidence data, an underestimation especially at La Dulce was assessed. A clear improvement of incidence goodness of fit estimations was obtained decreasing the heat accumulation defining the length of the wheat critical period for infection. Employing this last critical period length for the fundamental-empirical approach led to satisfactory Fusarium index predictions. This study showed that both approaches developed at northern locations of the Pampas region can be portable and useful for predicting disease intensity at more southern locations, making only a few changes.
90003376|The young plants of maize, cv. Anjou 245, were cultivated in sand culture under controlled conditions in a greenhouse. The water stress was caused by interruption of irrigation for a period of 8 days. The relative water content (RWC) decreased from 87.5 % to 79.783.2 %. This had the effect of a significant decrease of the dry matter production in shoots and roots of the maize plants. When the plants were treated with a 100 M abscisic acid (ABA) solution before the interruption of irrigation, this limited the growth of their aboveground parts and supported the production of dry matter in roots. Benzylaminopurine (BAP), applied as a 10 M solution, also supported the production of dry matter in the roots of the stressed plants to a statistically significant extent. At the same time, the application of ABA and BAP also reduced the ratio of the dry matter in aboveground parts to the dry matter in roots in the plants stressed by drought; the change in favour of the roots is a significant adaptation mechanism of plants to cope with water stress. The 8-day interruption of irrigation resulted in decreasing the
90003060|The landscape of Hungary has changed radically in the past decades. As a result of an intensive need for land use (spreading of residential areas, greenfield investments etc.) the natural environment has been diminishing. On the other hand, the needs of society for intact areas have been increased more and more. The Gdll Hillside has a big environmental stress, because it is situated close to the Budapest agglomeration. Due to a change in land use, such as the new roads, lots of houses and ever shrinking agriculture and sylviculture, the spatial structure becomes more and more fragmented. The fragmented spatial structure and hillside relief enhance the soil and vegetation degradation.
23784213|The chromosome instability of some Chinese Spring/Betzes addition lines was studied in sexually propagated plants and in plants propagated in tissue culture. A total of 197 regenerant plants were raised after propagation in tissue culture from six Chinese Spring/Betzes wheat/barley ditelosomic addition lines (1H 3HS, 3HL, 6HS, 6HL and 7HS) isolated by Islam (1983). The highest regeneration frequency was detected in the 3HL and 6HL addition lines. Cytological analyses of seed obtained on the regenerants showed that 49.8% of the seeds examined contained 42+2t chromosomes, 46.6% had 42 chromosomes, while 3.6% contained various numbers of chromosomes (42+1t, 41, 43). The loss of the additioned pair of telocentric barley chromosomes was most frequent in progeny regenerated from the 3HL line, where 88.4% of the seed examined had a chromosome number of 42. However, when propagated sexually 3HL proved to be one of the most stable wheat/barley ditelosomic addition lines; 93.1% of the seed analysed contained 42+2t chromosomes. The least stable addition line among the sexually propagated plants was the 7HS addition line, where only 15.4 % of the seed contained the additioned barley telocentric chromosomes.
23786052|The response of elite, true breeding triticale x wheat derivatives was studied in the non stress, P stress, irrigated and rainfed environments for grain yield and 15 other morpho-physiological traits. Sufficient genetic variability was present for almost all the characters in all the environments. Yield potential and stress tolerance were found to be independent attributes. P efficiency and water stress tolerance were also found to be unlinked traits. Some characters are described which could be useful while breeding towards P efficient and water stress tolerant genotypes.
90003418|Frost is an abiotic environmental stress factor significant hazard to many horticultural regions in Hungary. Now we should be focusing more studies on the effects of climatic changes because understanding and ability to minimise the risk of crop loss or damage is fundamental to managing a profitable enterprise.
23790067|Glutenin subunit alleles at the Glu-D3 locus and their effects on dough properties, pan bread, and dry white Chinese noodle (DWCN) qualities were investigated using 106 winter and facultative wheat cultivars and advanced lines. Allele Glu-D3c (42.5%) was the most frequent glutenin subunit, followed by Glu-D3b (25.5%) and Glu-D3a (23.6%). Glu-D3d and Glu-D3f occurred in only three and six cultivars, respectively. The effect of Glu-D3 was significant for DWCN quality, accounting for up to 16% of the variation, but there were no significant differences between individual Glu-D3 alleles on dough properties and qualities of DWCN and pan bread. Interaction effects Glu-A1  Glu-D3 and Glu-B1  Glu-D3 were significant for DWCN quality and loaf volume. More work is needed to understand the effects of Glu-D3 variation on the determination of dough properties and end-use quality.
90003241|Trichothecene contents were analyzed in naked and husked oat grain. It was found that naked-grained oat cultivars were contaminated with trichothecenes at a significantly lower percentage in relation to husked cultivars and the concentration of these toxins in their grain also turned out to be significantly lower.
90002752|There is a renewed interest in the identification of areas endangered by various soil threats explicitly formulated in ECs Thematic Strategy for Soil Protection. In our paper we present a functional approach for the regionalization of soil degradation processes combining the relevant map-based data available in nationwide scale. The thematic interpretation and spatial integration resulted in a soil degradation index map, which has been used for the delineation of soil degradation regions as well as for the quantitative comparison of areas based on its appropriate spatial aggregation.
23777579|Wheat grain hardness was determined by pressing the kernels laterally under a simple grain hardness tester. Combining ability and genetic components of variation analysis for this trait was carried out in the 8  8 varietal diallel. K 68, C 273, UP 301, UP 302 and Kalyansona were identified as hard wheats and S 307, and Sonora 64 as soft wheats. The additive genetic component was large when compared with the non-additive one. The heritability estimate was considerably high (69.74% in narrow sense and 91.38% in broad sense). The grain hardness was primarily governed by recessive genes. C 273, K 68, UP 301, UP 302 and Kalyansona were good general combiners for increasing hardness. Crosses comprising of C 273, K 68, UP 301, UP 302 and Kalyansona with S 307 and UP 302 are expected to give desirable segregants for grain hardness.
23781443|A mutant of durum wheat Cappelli lacking the Ph locus was crossed with Aegilops kotschyi and Aegilops cylindrica. As expected an enhancement of chromosome pairing at metaphase I was found. Chiasmata per cell increased from 2.21 to 7.84 i'n the hybirds with Ae. kotschyi; whereas in the hybirds with Ae. cylindrica the difference was even bigger, that is 1.86 and 9.58 respectively. The crossability of the mutant was similar to that shown by the mother variety. Percentage of seed set was higher with Ae. cylindrica than with Ae. kotschyi.
23782953|Various types of leaf chambers have been developed for measuring photosynthesis using infrared gas analysis. Some requires transporting the analyzer and other equipment to the field which limits the system's usefulness. A modification of a portable chamber designed by Huber (1978), for use in winter wheat reduces time required for making measurements of apparent photosynthesis to two minutes per sample. A study of diurnal variation in winter wheat carbon dioxide exchange rate was conducted to test the design's effectiveness at repeated sampling on the same leaf. Three tillers of the cultivar, Scout 66, were randomly selected each day. The study was conducted for three days, beginning at 6:00 hours. Gas samples were taken hourly throughout the day. Rates of carbon dioxide exchange rate increased rapidly from first light until 8:00 hours. A decline began after 9:00 hours and continued until 12:00 hours. A steady state in apparent photosynthesis was observed until 13:00 hours followed by a general decline for the remainder of the day. Partial stomatal closure probably occurred. Standard deviation of the means for individual times ranged from 0.37 to 0.76.
90002669|The aim of this study was to establish relation between in-field and convection rapeseed drydown rates on the brands Alaska, Express and Lirajet, grown during three years. By analysis of relations of maturity variables in the field and in the dryer, the association strength was described by Pearson coefficient on correlation of the mentioned variables, and it resulted as high as 0.7235. High correlation between the in-field and connection drydown rates showed that the cultivar Alaska had the highest seed drying speed both in the field conditions and in the dryer.
90002722|The goal of our research was to develop the phytoremediation technology by testing different treatments under field conditions. The experiment was based on the integrated improvement of physical, chemical and biological conditions of Gyngysoroszi spoil. 18 different phytoremediation treatments were tested. The highest chemical risk of Gyngysoroszi mine waste was found in case of Pb, Zn, Cd and As. The plots could be successfully vegetated. The biomass production of different treatments was largely different. Multi-level revitalization not only had high impact on the biomass production, but also reduced the heavy metal uptake of plants. The concept of the integrated phytoremediation technology proved to be an efficient tool to stabilize the surface of spoils by plants.
23787150|Maize (OsSK552 hybrid) was grown under field conditions on two hydromorphic soils of moderate fertility for two growing seasons. Increased rates of P and K (monoammonium phosphate and potassium chloride) were applied as follows: a) control (standard fertilization); b) a + 1500 kg P2O5 ha1; c) a + 1500 kg K2O ha1; d) = b + c. Residual effects of ameliorative fertilization were tested in the following year (2002) and the experiment was fertilized uniformly (kg ha1: 177 N + 100 P2O5 + 150 K2O). The treatments were laid out according to the randomized block scheme with four replications. At the beginning of the silking stage, ear leaves were taken for chemical analyses. Maize growing on Luzani soil resulted in 15% lower yield compared to the Kobas experiment (7.75 and 9.06 t ha1, respectively). Fertilization had a significant influence on the nutritional status of maize. For example, in comparison with the control, under the influence of P fertilization leaf P, Ca and Mg increased by 25%, 20% and 22%, respectively, while leaf Mg decreased by 10%. K fertilization decreased leaf Mg, Ca and P by 30%, 13% and 7%, respectively, while leaf K increased by 16%. Application of both P and K resulted in increases of leaf P and K by 14 and 15%, respectively, while leaf Ca and Mg decreased by 5% and as much as 30%, respectively.
90002871|Atmosphere, soil and plant cover have very strong interactions (Szendrein et al., 2000). These connections can be proofed in the easiest way in forests in more complex topography (Szendrein et al., 2001), but they exist at other agricultural productions under more frequently changing conditions. One of the main influencing climate factors is the precipitation and evapotranspiration. The difference of them is often used parameter of climatological water availability or climatological water deficit. These factors are very important, because of their role in the surface water balance, determination of soil moisture content. From the other side, their future tendencies are described with a large uncertainty in the climate change projections. Therefore, detailed investigations of their role in the hydrological cycle and past tendencies are requested.
23785255|The available ditelosomic lines of Chinese Spring (CS) were evaluated for grain protein content. Seven lines showing a different protein concentration and similar grain weight to CS euploid were further analysed under two nitrogen levels, 0 and 200 Kg N/ha. CSDTIAS showed a higher grain protein concentration, probably as a consequence of a grain yield reduction. On the contrary, CSDT7BL showed a decrease in grain protein concentration (15-20 %) but a similar grain yield to CS euploid. A second experiment carried out included group 7 and 5 ditelosomic lines, and confirmed that only CSDT7BL shows a grain protein reduction of about 20 % and similar grain yield when compared to CS euploid. In addition the total N or free aminoacids were measured on flag leaves during grain filling. No differences were detected amongst lines and the same was true when N concentration was evaluated in straw or chaff. It is proposed that the CS7BS chromosome arm carries an important gene(s) for N translocation from leaves into grains.
23787220|The interest in oats for the production of functional foods is increasing, due to both their nutritional quality and the indication of health benefits related to oat consumption. The chemical constituents of the oat kernel (protein, lipid, fibre and so on) are therefore the focus of a number of studies, as genetic differences in the chemical composition of the caryopsis appear to affect the resulting performance in food production. The aim of this paper was to provide information about the main constituents of the oat kernel. For this purpose, sixty oat cultivars, developed or grown in 17 European countries, were analysed for this study from the chemical point of view, with a special focus on protein, -glucan and dietary fibre. A quite large range of genetic variation was observed for the chemical parameters evaluated on seeds regenerated in the same year at the same location.
23787138|One of the main deterrents to high grain yield in maize is its susceptibility to several diseases. Banded leaf and Sheath blight (BLSB) caused by (Rhizoctonia solani f. sp. sasakii) has become a serious threat to its cultivation in the north western plains of India. The pathogen spreads from the basal sheath to the developing ear under favourable environmental conditions. The developing ear is completely damaged and dries up prematurely with caking of husk leaves. The main objective was to work out the inheritance of resistance to this biotic stress. Inheritance of resistance to BLSB was studied based on the analysis of 10 crosses, Eight crosses were between 2 resistant (CM104 and CML1) and 4 susceptible (Tarun - 36-1-1-1-2-1-4, D741- 1-1-1-10-4-4, Pop31 -21-1-2-4-1-1-5-1/13 # and Tarun - 252-1-2-2-1-2-1) inbred lines. In addition, one resistant x resistant and one susceptible x susceptible crosses were also studied. Parents, F1's, F2's and backcrosses were included in the present study. Final evaluation was undertaken under artificially created epiphytotic conditions. The F2 segregation pattern for BLSB reaction was15:1 in crosses involving CM104 as resistant parent and 13:3 in crosses involving CML1 as resistant parent. The BC1 P1 segregation pattern exhibited3:1 ratio. The resistant x resistant and susceptible x susceptible crosses followed all:0 and 0:all for resistance and susceptibility, respectively. The F2 segregation analysis of eight susceptible x resistant crosses revealed that resistance was governed by two genes. The BLSB reaction in F2 and backcrosses involving CM104 and susceptible lines suggested that resistance in CM104 was controlled by duplicate dominant genes while crosses of CML1 showed dominance and recessive interaction.
23782784|High-molecular-weight glutenin subunit composition of eighty Italian Triticum durum Desf. cultivars, and of seven commercial brands of 'spaghetti' was investigated by using SDS-PAGE. On the whole, the wheats examined were found to carry twelve GLU-AI and GLU-BI alleles, accounting for nine different electrophoretical patterns. Six novel GLU-1 alleles were identified. All cultivars, except 'Raineri' and 'Lambro', were found to lack major GLU-A1 encoded subnits. SDS-PAGE of commercial brands of 'spaghetti' evidenced the presence of the same HMW GLUTENIN subunits found in unprocessed wholemeals. No obvious relationship between HMW glutenin subunit composition and spaghetti cooking quality was observed amongst nineteen cultivars for which both sets of data were available.
90003296|The relationship between plant height and Fusarium Head Blight (FHB) development was analyzed using data from multiple variety trials conducted in eastern North Dakota in 2005. Experiments included commercially available varieties and promising advanced lines (at least 15 genotypes in each experiment) of winter and spring classes of wheat. FHB pressure was high in all locations without inoculation. Correlations between plant height and FHB field severity were significant in three of the four experiments. The best correlations were obtain from winter wheat experiments because heading corresponded to ideal environmental conditions for FHB and because there was no genetic resistance in the genotypes tested like in some of the spring wheat cultivars. These data suggest the importance that distance from the inoculum source can play in disease infection. Plant height difference should be considered when screening for disease resistance and when recommending varieties to growers in regions where FHB can be problematic.
23790387|Digital image analysis was used to test the quality parameters of six varieties of Triticum aestivum L. and one variety of Triticum duro-compactum L.  projected area, equivalent diameter, MaxFeret and MinFeret (minimum or maximum perpendicular distance between parallel tangents touching opposite sides of the profile of the chosen object), perimeter, thickness and crease depth (both measured using a digital calliper) of a kernel ranging from 16.5220.22 mm 2 , 4.585.07 mm, 16.7020.82 mm, 6.217.29 mm, 3.323.78 mm, 2.693.12 mm, 0.230.42 mm. The size data were used for calculation of volumes and surface areas of wheat kernels modelled as a general ellipsoid. The calculation of surface area using finite element method (FEM) was based on computer software MAPLE 9.0 and the results were compared with a simplified method. The volumes of kernels from the ellipsoid model were corrected with consideration of measured average crease depth; the difference was then max. 3.6%. We tested the correlation of volume and surface areas obtained from the ellipsoidal model with the measured projected areas; the resulting high correlation coefficient for the varieties of Triticum aestivum enables the use of only 2D image analysis measurement, for quick estimation of surface and volume parameters, without time consuming thickness measuring. However, the shape of Triticum duro-compactum kernels was a little different and the designed geometrical model was thus not suitable. We recommend image analysis as a simple and rapid method for obtaining the parameters of wheat grain for engineering purposes.
23782995|The effects of gibberellic acid (GA3) on the seed set of three hard white spring wheats and their alloplasmic derivatives carrying T. timopheevi cytoplasm were studied. GA3 failed to restore the fertility of the cytoplasmic male steriles but reduced the fertility of the lines carrying normal cytoplasm.
90002738|Grapevine is a plant species that requires high potassium levels. Soil potassium uptake is strongly dependent on the status of other soil cations, such as calcium and magnesium, especially on calcareous soils. Research was done during 2006 on three fully productive vineyards (I, II and III). The vineyards were a significant source of variability for all investigated parameters: pH value, soil and leaf potassium status, and soil active lime. The determined soil potassium values ranged from 142.5 to 197.1 mg K
23780398|Immature hard red spring (HRS) wheat, harvested at 3 stages of development (25, 32 and 39 days after flowering), was dissected into: pericarp (outer pericarp); seed coat (inner pericarp, testa, hyaline layer); endosperm-aleurone; embryo (embryonic axis)-scutellum. These tissues then were incubated under standard germination conditions with subsequent analysis for the changes in -amylase activity and isoenzyme composition. The results indicated that -amylase was synthesized in the immature embryo-scutellum and endosperm-aleurone. The increase in -amylase activity was in part attributable to a family of isoenzymes similar to those normally believed to be synthesized exclusively in the germinating wheat kernel.
23788184|Duration of vernalization requirement in various winter wheat cultivars and its inheritance in F1 and F2 have been studied after crossing of contrast genotypes. Partial dominance of shorter requirement has been revealed in F1 hybrids. Segregations in F2 populations have shown the action of two non-allelic genes of different expression. Revealed genes are proposed to designate as Vrd according to the first letters of term "vernalization requirement duration". In conformity with this symbol the haploid genotypes of investigated cultivars are: Vrdl vrd2 - Norin 1 and Olvia; vrdl Vrd2 - Chayka; vrdl vrd2 - Mironovskaya 808 and Eritrospermum 604.
23790377|High temperature is a major determinant of wheat development and growth and causes yield loss in many regions of the world. This study was conducted to assess heat stress effects on yield and yield related traits of wheat. The 144 recombinant inbred lines derived from the cross of Kauz (heat tolerant) and MTRWA116 (susceptible) together with some commercial cultivars were evaluated during 20062007, 20072008 under normal and heat stress (late sowing) conditions. Grain yield, head length, kernels per spike, spiklets per spike, plant height, grain filling duration, peduncle length and 1000 kernels weight were measured. The results showed a significant difference among RILs for all traits in stress and control conditions. High temperature significantly decreased all traits specially grain yield (46.63%), 1000-kernel weight (20.61%) and grain filling duration (20.42%). Grain yield was most affected and spikelets per spike was least affected (11.77%). Grain yield under heat stress was directly correlated (r = 0.49) with yield in normal condition. Head length and grain yield had the highest (93.18%) and the lowest (62.97%) heritability, respectively. Peduncle length and grain filling duration showed the highest correlation with yield under both normal and heat stress conditions suggesting that these two traits could be used as reliable screening tools for development of heat-tolerant genotypes.
23780400|Two groups of -amylase isoenzymes have been found in wheat during the processes of development, sprouting and germination. Monospecific antibodies to each group have been raised and immunoelectrophoresis has been used to quantify the isoenzymes. Isolated aleurone layers, in response to exogenously added gibberellic acid, predominantly produced the group of isoenzymes that is normally the minor constituent of the germinated seed. The degradation of starch granules in vivo has been observed and the -amylase resistant outer layers of the large granules have been analysed.
23786923|Impact of fusariotoxins mixture (moniliformin, fumonisin B1, fusaproliferin, zearalenone, zearalenol and deoxynivalenol, each at concentration 35 gmL1) on maize plants of resistant (Lucia) and susceptible (Pavla) cultivars was studied. After 72 hours of root exposure to the fusariotoxins the biomass production with both cultivars was approximately 6% lower than in the respective controls. In the resistant cultivar, chlorophyll content was higher comparing to control, with greater increase in chlorophyll b. In the susceptible cultivar, chlorophyll content was slightly decreased, particularly with chlorophyll b. In toxins treated plants, the young root cells were more vacuolated and plasmolysis occurred in the cells of outer cortex. The cells contained numerous osmiophilic globules in periplasmic space associated with plasmodesmata and plasma membrane, and within cytoplasm associated with membranes of ER, plastids, and tonoplast. In the leaves of the susceptible cultivar also disorganization of thylakoids in some chloroplasts was observed when treated by fusariotoxins mixture.
23783077|The relationship of plant characters at heading and at ripe with grain protein content and grain yield in high and low grain protein winter wheats (Triticum aestivum L.) was examined. Field experiments involved two winter wheats with high grain protein, 'Redwin' and 'Lancota', and two with low grain. protein, 'Centurk' and 'Brule' for two years. High grain protein cultivars had significantly larger flag leaves, longer peduncles and spikes, and lower harvest index. No consistent trend was observed between high and low grain protein cultivars for plant height, number of tillers per unit area, number of seeds/spike, seed weight/spike, biological yield, and 1000 kernel weight. The combination of flag leaf area, spike length, and plant height at heading (preanthesis) resulted in a significant coefficient of multiple determination (R2) of 0.61 with grain protein content. At ripe, grain protein content was highly correlated with the combination of biological yield, grain yield, and harvest index (R2 = 0.83). Selection for pre-anthesis traits which showed high association with grain protein can be utilized in breeding for grain protein improvement. In addition, these non-destructive measurements pre-anthesis can identify parents for crosses to increase grain protein content. Indirect selection for grain protein content using harvest index should minimize the inverse relationship between grain protein content and grain yield.
23780402|Although the Hagberg Falling Number and the Brabender Amylograph can satisfactorily predict the level of amylase activity in a wheat, they occasionally differ in their relative ranking of wheats for activity. This results from differences in the proportion of amylase which ultimately ends up in the flour used for the amylograph test relative to the total amylase activity of the ground whole wheat used in the Falling Number test. Possible explanations for this phenomena are considered.
23777755|A total of 188 inbred lines of corn were evaluated in small plots with respect to condition of their pith cells in the first and fourth internodes above the upper-most brace roots. Inbreds were rated early (August) and late (October) in the season. The response to artificial inoculation with Diplodia maydis was scored for first and fourth internodes. Also scored were two types of natural infection (basal stalk rot, like that incited by Gibberella zeae; and, charcoal rot incited by Macrophomina phaseoli). There was a good correlation between the following: late pith condition ratings and inoculated stalk rot scores; inoculated stalk rot scores and per cent natural stalk rot; and, pith condition ratings and per cent natural rot. Correlations between early pith condition ratings and both artificially induced and natural stalk rotting, were poor. It was possible to classify the inbreds according to their pith condition ratings. We recommend that inbreds be selected for stalk rot studies using pith condition ratings based on cell death patterns, as well as by stalk rot response (natural stalk rotting or following inoculation). We also recommend selection of inbreds for future inheritance studies on stalk rot susceptibility be made using cell death pattern data.
23782889|Soft white winter wheat cultivars; Augusta, Frankenmuth, Fredrick and Houser, were grown in field trials at applied nitrogen (N) levels of 0, 40, 80, 120 and 150 Kg N ha1. Cultivar variation in yield response to levels of N was minor and non-significant (P < .05) and the estimated advantage of individual cultivar N prescriptions for economic optimum yield varied from 0 for Frankenmuth to $1.12 ha1 for Augusta. Lodging tended to increase with increasing N, more for Houser than Augusta and Fredrick. Grain protein also tended to increase with increasing N, especially for Fredrick. Powdery mildew tended to increase with increasing N, with cultivars varying little in their rate of increase. Leaf rust tended to increase with increasing N, but Fredrick and Augusta's rates of increase were considerably less than the rates for Frankenmuth and Houser. Scab tended to increase with increasing N for Augusta and Houser but not for Frankenmuth and Fredrick. At the level of N for optimum economic yield, 77 Kg N ha1, the other traits studied were generally at acceptable levels.
90002824|Pentakeep-V is a special foliar fertilizer containing the precursor of chlorophyll synthesis, namely 5-aminolevulin acid (5-ALA). The effect of PV on water balance of the soil is not known, therefore an experiment was set up in precision weighing lysimeters to determine the evapotranspiration of three sorghum hybrids. We could not figure out a significant transpiration moderating effect of PV, but detected a positive effect on the yields. Furthermore the higher transpiration was accompanied by more effective utilization of water. The water use efficiency index proved to be better in most cases, PV-treated hybrids needed 10  30 mm less water to generate 1 kg biomass compared to the untreated controls.
23787246|During the 1996/97 season twenty durum wheat cultivars were grown in Foggia, a typical area of durum wheat cultivation in Italy, in order to assess the varietal response to the effects of heat stress on characteristics affecting grain and milling quality. In the field trial high temperature stress was imposed during grain filling by covering the plots from ten days after anthesis until ripeness with PVC film tunnels, obtaining maximum temperatures about 10C higher in the tunnels than in the open. Results evidenced that, in general, the percentage of gluten, total and insoluble proteins increased with high temperature whereas a reduction was observed for kernel and specific weight. Considerable differences among the varieties examined in the response to heat stress were observed pointing out different sensitivity levels to this environmental factor. Therefore, on the basis of the changes of insoluble protein percentage, important qualitative parameter of durum wheat, the varieties were arranged in tolerant and sensitive groups and, in relation to grain qualitative characteristics, the different performance of the two groups was also evidenced.
23777594|Gene action in relation to yield per plant test weight and number of grains per spike was studied in diallel F1 and F2 populations derived separately from normal and EMS treated populations of nine elite diverse spring wheat varieties. Both, additive and nonadditive (including epistatic) gene effects were important to different degrees in controlling all the three characters. Preponderance of additive gene action was revealed for test weight while nonadditive gene action was prevalent for grain yield and number of grains per spike. The magnitude of additive component increased considerably in EMS treated population (TF2) for test weight and grain yield, while nonadditive component increased for grain yield per plant (TF1) and number of grains per spike (TF1 and TF2). A breeding plan which may effectively exploit both additive and nonadditive gene effects has been suggested.
90003428|The aim of the experiments was to detect and analyse the genetic factors responsible for the FHB resistance of old Hungarian wheat varieties. The resistant BKT9086-95 line developed from the variety Bnkti 1201 was crossed with the moderately FHB-resistant variety Mv Magvas to create a single seed descent population for the purpose of studying the genetic background of resistance. Based on the results of artificial inoculation, 15 resistant and 15 susceptible genotypes were selected for the purpose of bulked segregant analysis (BSA). The bulk samples and the parents were analysed using the amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) method. The two bulk samples and the parents were tested with a total of 81 primer combinations, and an average of 5.02 deviations per reaction was found between the parents. AFLP patterns similar to that of the resistant parent were found in a further 16 cases. On the basis of the BSA results the testing of the whole population using the AFLP and simple sequence repeat methods has been commenced.
23781427|Investigations were carried out on the character of stem height inheritance on F1, F2 and F3 generations of crosses Sadovo 1 x. x Sonora 64A, Sadovo 1 x Oleson, Sadovo 1 x UP 301 and Sadovo 1x x 5994/66. The crosses Sadovo 1 x Oleson and Sadovo 1 x UP 301 present a particular interest. 14% of the F2 plants are considerably shorter than the Sadovo 1 variety. They vary from 45 cm to 65 cm and can be prospective starting plants in the process of breeding short stem varieties. In the investigation of the correlation between stem height and elements of productivity in F2 and F3 it was found, that the shorter stem was related to the lower kernel weight in an ear and a plant in the crosses Sadovo 1 x Oleson and Sadovo 1 x UP 3ol. In this case the stem shortening below the height of Sadovo 1 /9o cm/ in the tested combinations leads to a decrease in the productivity in the hybrid populations.
23786048|Isolates of Drechslera graminea, the causal agent of barley leaf stripe, were collected from different regions of Syria and analyzed for differences in cultural morphology, growth rate, colony colour, and randomly applied polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Differences in morphological characters were detected among the isolates used. Molecular polymorphisms (RAPDs) were also detected among them. However only two out of the twelve random primers used OPK3 (5-CCAGCTTAGG-3) and OPK5 (5-TCTGTCGAGG-3) revealed a different number and size of amplification bands between the isolates. These two primers were sufficient to identify most of the isolates studied. Our data show, that there were high differences within the pathogen isolates, and that the RAPD technique could be successfully used as an accurate and rapid way to discriminate isolates of D. graminea.
23784265|Composite samples of 11 experimental varieties and lines, selected as typical of various degrees of baking strength and protein content, were evaluated by means of a Robotic Baking Method. This economical and practical method could be used as a tool for differentiating feed wheats from bread wheat progenies and parents which are very different in baking properties. This baking method has the flexibility to accommodate a wide range of varietal strength and could be applied for screening as early as F3.
23786789|A plant with a structural chromosome deficiency was isolated from a population of 407 green plants regenerated from microspore culture of ten barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivars. Based on acetocarmine staining and N-banding patterns, the deficient chromosome was identified as chromosome 1 with 67% of the long arm missing, acrocentric chromosome 1SL. At meiosis, six ring bivalents and one open bivalent were observed. Among 111 progenies that resulted from selfing of the deficient plant and crossing with a diploid, all had 14 chromosomes. This indicated that the deficient chromosome was not transmitted through male or female gametes. The deficient plant was late and had reduced vigor and seed set.
90003169|One objective of this research
90002725|KCl-EDTA solution was compared to Lakanen-Ervi and CaCl
23786059|The objective of this study was to assess the effect of the genes for long glume (P and P2) on carbon-isotope discrimination () and grain yield (GY) using near-isogenic lines of a durum wheat cultivar, LD222 in Japan and Turkey. The location had major effects on variation of  and GY, but the effects of glume length on  and GY were little in overall environments. It was suggested that the gene P2 had more adaptive effects than the P gene. The curvilinear relationship between  and GY is probably based on the difference between the locations with relatively little genetic variation.
23784191|In 1990 heavy losses were recorded due to BYDV in early sown small grains. The tests with 6 winter wheat varieties of different resistance at 4 sowing densities and 6 sowing times demonstrated that the epiphytotic beside resistance will be heavily influenced by early sowing and lower sowing densities. Three cultivars were susceptible and three highly resistant. Yield losses for susceptible genotypes reached 50-60, for more resistant cultivars only 10-20 %. The higher sowing densities resulted even less infection and better yield and test weight, even at the same sowing time. The results confirm experimentally the observations presented earlier in the literature.
23790363|In 20052008 virulence of the wheat leaf rust population was studied on Thatcher near-isogenic lines with Lr1, Lr2a, Lr2b, Lr2c, Lr3a, Lr9, Lr10, Lr11, Lr15, Lr17, Lr19, Lr21, Lr23, Lr24, Lr26 and Lr28. Samples of leaf rust were obtained from different parts of the Czech Republic. A total of 233 wheat leaf rust isolates were analyzed. Resistance gene Lr9 was effective to all tested isolates as in the four previous years. Virulence to Lr19 (0.8% of the analysed isolates) was found. Gene Lr24 conditioned resistance to almost all collections and a lower frequency of virulence was also observed on Lr2a and Lr28. Twenty-six winter wheat cultivars, seven spring wheat cultivars and seven winter triticale cultivars registered in 20052008 were tested with 7 leaf rust isolates. Winter wheat cultivars Biscay, Mulan and Orlando were resistant to all isolates and were also resistant in field trials.
90003399|The aim of resistance breeding is to transfer naturally occurring genes into major crops in order to improve their resistance to biotic and abiotic stress factors. In recent years a complete information system has been elaborated in Martonvsr, which amalgamates breeding and IT knowledge and is continually revised. The use of methods based on molecular breeding and the transgenic technique have made it necessary to create new types of databases to record information on genes, markers and transformation vectors. In order to facilitate the use of the data by breeders, new software also had to be designed for the following functions: (1) to identify useful resistance genes in genomic databases, (2) to identify and store markers suitable for the marker-assisted selection of basic genetic materials, (3) to provide real-time information to breeders (at the required time for the required search parameters) to facilitate the choice of crossing partners, (4) to test the ability to monitor transformation experiments, and (5) to make these experiments compatible with conventional breeding (crossing) programmes.
23789327|Starch properties contribute positively to the quality of both dry and fresh Chinese white noodle quality. Understanding the genetic variation of starch properties in Chinese wheats will therefore facilitate genetic improvement for noodle quality. The composition of waxy protein (Wx) subunits, amylose content, and Rapid Visco Analyzer (RVA) properties of a total of 260 wheat cultivars and advanced lines (Triticum aestivum L) from four Chinese winter wheat regions were characterized. Significant variation was observed for all tested parameters except for peak time. Amylose content, peak viscosity, holding strength, and breakdown values ranged 23.1 to 33.6%, 1151 to 3522cp, 1385 to 2374cp and 192 to 1711cp, respectively. Thirty-nine Chinese wheats conferred the Wx-Bl null mutation, and significant differences in starch properties were observed between the Wx-Bl null wheats and the normal wheats. Data on both waxy protein and starch properties are needed to characterize Chinese wheat germplasm for starch quality and for noodle products. Three cultivars (Guanfeng 2, Yumai 47, and Mianyang 26) had very good starch properties and noodle quality based on our previously report. They could be used as crossing parents in breeding programs targeting for noodle quality improvement.
23783923|One-cm-high Triticum aestivum cv. Buck Omb seedlings were inoculated with ca. 108 cells Azospirillum brasilense Sp 245. After inoculation, seedlings were exposed to osmotic stress by immersing roots in 20 % polyethylene glycol (PEG) 8,000 (osmotic potential 0.60 MPa) up to 90 h. Germination and seedling growth were accomplished at 30 C, in darkness. Seedlings inoculated with autoclaved bacteria were used as controls. Shoots were excised after 48 h and 90 h stress and growth parameters determined. Coleoptile height, fresh weight and dry weight were enhanced 79 %, 60 % and 54 % respectively, in wheat-inoculated seedlings after 90 h treatment. The effect of Azospirillum in promoting coleoptile growth in wheat seedlings under water stress and its possible implications on plant survival and grain yield, are discussed.
23785304|Results of a four year investigation of 20 alloplasmic wheat lines, developed on the basis of five species - T. aestivum L., T. turgidum L., T. durum Desf., T. dicoccum Schrank. and T. aethiopicum Jakubz. are analysed for parameters characterizing plant ability for induction of morphogenetic processes in anther culture. The positive effect of the interspecific cytoplasm substitution on the expression of the investigated parameters (number of responding anthers, number of embryoids per 100 anthers, and number of green and albino regenerants) was observed. Combining alien genome and plasmon was shown to modify strongly their expression. Individual alloplasmic lines were revealed surpassing parental and corresponding "reciprocal" lines in the ability for embryogenesis induction in anther culture. Bifactorial dispersion analysis has shown a reliable involvement of the cytoplasm and nuclear-cytoplasm interaction in determination of parameters "total number of embryoids" and "number of green regenerants".
23789865|The objectives of the study were to test diversity among winter barley breeding lines exhibiting various sensitivity to FHB and to find RAPD markers and AFLP markers that will distinguish between susceptible and moderately resistant genotypes. A test of a set of winter barley genotypes artificially infected in field trials by fusaria was carried out. Based on the results from field and laboratory evaluation and deoxynivalenol (DON) content assessment, barley genotypes with different responses to FHB were selected. The genotypes were hybridized and doubled haploid (DH) lines were derived in F1 generation using the in vitro androgenesis method. Initial parental components and derived DH lines were tested for FHB infection and DON content. A set of parental genotypes of winter barley was tested with 80 RAPD markers. Based on analyses of 80 RAPD primers in a set of parental genotypes of winter barley, the primer H15 was selected that provides specific product of 650-bp size for moderately resistant winter barley genotypes. In consecutive detection, this specific product was found in 4 DH lines. During the study, some DH lines were selected that exhibited improved resistance to Fusarium infection. A low infection level and low DON content were found in the winter barley line DH 610 from the combination of Br2611m x Duet. The AFLP technique was used to analyze parental genotypes of winter barley as well as 7 selected DH lines of winter barley. The detected markers can be further evaluated and employed to select breeding materials.
23787582|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) population density (PD) could be used to improve the wheat production technology in Northwestern Mexico. Tillering capacity is a characteristic of the variety. Theoretically, the recommended PD should not be modified by the variety. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of the variety (V) and PD on wheat yield and other components. A field study was carried out at the Yaqui Valley Agricultural Experimental Station, in Sonora, Mexico. It consisted of a complete factorial of five wheat varieties: Aconchi C89, Tepoca T89, Oasis F86, Altar C85, and Rayon F89, and seven PD treatments: 20, 40, 80, 160, 240, 320 and 800 thousand plants per hectare (TPPH)) in a split plot design with varieties as main plots and the PD as subplots in a complete randomized block design with five replications. For all the evaluated variables, the response to PD was different according to the variety, mainly in treatments with low PD, and as this was increased, the response turned asymptotic, with optimum PD being different for each variety. The maximum yield and the other wheat components were reached with the optimum PD, around 160 TPPH. The number of tillers per plant (TPP) always decreased with increased PD, while the harvest index (HI) was not affected by the studied factors.
23782958|Twenty genotypes of Hordeum bulbosum L. (4x) obtained from Turkey, China and U.S.S.R. were pollinated with H. vulgare L. (4x) cv. 'Betzes' under controlled environmental conditions. Viable progeny were obtained from 11 of the 20 combinations at frequencies ranging from 0.63 to 11.73%. The results indicate that, in this particular cross, the genotype of H. bulbosum L. could have a significant influence on the production of haploids and hybrids and that further study is warranted.
23790021|Stripe rust, caused by Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici (PST), is one of the most serious diseases of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) worldwide. Of 94 Triticum durum/Aegilops tauschii synthetic wheat accessions tested, CI142 (Garza/Boy//Ae. squarrosa 271) was found to be resistant to 6 Chinese PST races. The resistance to stripe rust in CI142 was proven to be controlled by a single dominant gene, tentatively designated YrC142. Gene postulation showed that the pathogenic specificity of CI142 is different from 21 other lines possessing known resistance genes, such as Yr10, Yr15, Yr24, and Yr26, located on chromosome 1B. Bulked segregant analysis (BSA) and F 2 segregation analysis of the CI142/Mingxian 169 cross were used to analyse the SSR markers linked to YrC142. Five SSR markers were found to be closely associated with YrC142 in the order Xwmc419-YrC142-Xgwm273, Xbarc187-Xgwm18-Xwmc626, in which the relative genetic distances of these SSR loci to the gene YrC142 were 5.4, 0.8, 0.8, 1.0, and 2.4 cM, respectively. Two SSR markers (Xgwm273 162 and Xgwm18 168 ) distinguished YrC142 from Yr10, Yr15, Yr24, and Yr26, suggesting that these 2 SSR markers may be used as diagnostic ones for the gene in a wheat breeding program against stripe rust. Based on these findings, YrC142 is most likely a new gene or a new allele at the Yr26 locus, which provides an opportunity to diversify stripe rust-resistant resources for wheat breeding programs.
23789801|Seasonal development of entomophthoralean infection in colonies of Diuraphis noxia and Rhopalosiphum maidis was evaluated on summer barley under conditions of south-western Slovakia in 2001 and 2002. D. noxia was infesting summer barley during both years, while R. maidis was only recorded in 2002. Further three cereal aphids, Rhopalosiphum padi, Metopolophium dirhodum and Sitobion avenae, were also observed on summer barley. Complex of entomophthoralean fungi identified in cereal aphid colonies included four species, Pandora neoaphidis, Entomophthora planchoniana, Conidiobolus obscurus and Neozygites fresenii, with P. neoaphidis as the most prevalent fungus during both years. Two parasitic fungi, P. neoaphidis and E. planchoniana, were identified from D. noxia, but P. neoaphidis was predominant. Infection rate in D. noxia colonies was low, not exceeding 15% and 10% in 2001 and 2002, respectively. Only nine R. maidis individuals were killed with entomophthoralean fungi. The fungi were identified as P. neoaphidis and C. obscurus. No epizootics were observed in the aphid colonies. The fungi could not control development of the aphid populations since they did not appear until high host densities had been established in the crops.
23789868|The objective of this study was to continue attempts to introduce wheat chromosomes, particularly those from the B genome, into diploid rye. An allohexaploid having 2 wheat mixogenomes (1B, 2A, 3B, 4B, 5B, 6A and 7B) and 4 rye genomes (RRRR) was crossed with substitution 2x rye containing the chromosomes of the wheat A genome except 3A, and next backcrossed with substitution rye. Karyotypes were analysed by C-banding in the produced plants of the generations F1, BC1F1, and BC1F2. In nearly all plants of the F1 generation (except one), 412 wheat chromosomes were found, mainly those of the B genome. A comparison of 2 successive generations indicates that both the mean and range of numbers of wheat chromosomes in the offspring of substitution plants and substitution-addition plants changed sometimes to the advantage of wheat chromosomes but sometimes to their disadvantage. A decline was observed in the contribution of B chromosomes and of chromosomes 2A and 6A, but pollen introduced some wheat chromosomes from the male parent: 1A, 4A, 5A and 7A. Wheat B chromosomes contributed to disturbances in plant development (lack of the spike emergence stage), but usually caused spike sterility, and even the single grains produced were usually unable to germinate. As a result, wheat chromosomes of the B genome were finally completely eliminated from the analysed material. The presence of wheat chromosome of the A genome in fertile 2x rye plants, as well as their transfer to the next generations, indicate that the A genome is more closely related to the rye genome than the B genome. Positive introgression of wheat chromatin from the A genome into 2x rye depends to a large extent on chromosome engineering by means of appropriate crossing combinations, as A chromosomes from the male parent were much better tolerated than those from the female parent.
23783935|Genetics of yield components of a spring wheat cross (CPAN1796 X HD2323) was studied by raising its 16 generations, viz.,P1, P2, F1, F2, B1, B2, F3, F2 bip, B11, B12, B22, B21, B1F1, B2F1, B1S and B2S, during winter 1991-92. The estimates of genetic effects revealed the presence of additive, dominance and epistatic components in the inheritance of 100-grain weight. Additive x additive epistatic component was important for grains/spike, whereas both additive and dominance components were important in the genetic control of spike length. However, none of the genetic components was significant for spikes/plant. The 6-parameter model failed to account variation for all the traits studied.
90003080|Grain yield and starch yield are influenced by the amount of assimilates accumulates in the grain during grain filling. The realisation of this genetically determined trait is greatly affected by environmental factors, principally the amount of water that can be taken up from the soil. Four maize non-related inbred lines and their hybrids were examined in diallel experiments for two years (2006-2007) in Martonvsr, Hungary in order to clarify the effect of water-supply on the genetically determined characteristics of grain filling. GCA values of the grain filling rate and thousand-seed weight proved that two lines transmitting favourable grain filling and thus suitable to be used as gene donors or parent lines in breeding programmes can be selected.
23781500|Significantly reduced spikelet infection by Gibberella zeae of Chinese Spring x Soo-mo 3 F2 populations was found when any one of chromosomes 1B, 2A, 5A, 6D or 7D of Chinese Spring was missing. A possible Soo-mo 3 gene for increased seed infection, or Chinese Spring gene for reduced infection, was indicated on chromosome 2D. Many chromosomes had an effect on yield components and plant height, but none of these effects could definitely be attributed to allelic differences between Soo-mo 3 and Chinese Spring.
23789331|The gluten proteins of 15 winter wheat cultivars grown in eastern Croatia were studied for their contribution to the bread-making quality. Composition of high-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS) was analyzed by SDS-PAGE, while the quantity of gluten proteins was determined by combined extraction/RP-HPLC procedure. The results of the linear correlation analysis carried out on the particular gluten proteins and technological properties showed that the amount of total gluten content highly correlates with protein content. Among gluten proteins, the glutenins showed higher correlation with protein content, with pronounced influence of HMW-GS, than gliadins. Wet gluten content was significantly correlated to total gliadin quantity. Gluten index as gluten quality parameter was positively influenced by total glutenins and low-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (LMW-GS), and negatively, by the ratios of gliadin to glutenin (Gli/Glu), whereas the amount of gliadins was not important. Dough development time was strongly correlated with total gluten content, total glutenins and the Gli/Glu ratio. Dough mixing resistance was strongly affected by total glutenin content with pronounced influence of HMW-GS. Degree of dough softening is mainly negative influenced by total glutenins and ratio of Gli/Glu. Farinograph quality number as flour quality index was highly positively correlated with total glutenins, with emphasized influence of HMW-GS. The Gli/Glu ratio had the highest influence on dough maximum resistance. Dough extensibility showed moderate correlation with total gliadins. The results of the linear correlation indicated that loaves volumes were significantly influenced by total gluten proteins, HMW-GS and LMW-GS.
23786186|Sustainable agriculture aims to avoid or minimise the use of non-renewable production inputs. To achieve these objectives, farmers employ a variety of alternative production and management practices and try to maximise the use of (i) on-farm resources such as legumes and manure to provide plants with nutrients, (ii) crop residues, covering crops and conservation tillage to control soil erosion and nutrient leaching, (iii) crop rotation to control weeds, insects and diseases, (iv) energy conserving tillage system to save energy and reduce operation costs. This way, farmers seek to minimise their dependence on costly off-farm resources. Lupine can fix enough atmospheric nitrogen to meet or slightly exceed their own nitrogen requirements. One important aim of the research has been to investigate the benefit of lupine to the following rye crop in the treatments of Westsik's crop rotation experiment.
23787572|Six maize hybrids and their parental inbred lines, grown under controlled conditions, were tested for chilling tolerance using the chlorophyll fluorescence induction technique. The genotypes were ranked based on the decrease in the Fv/Fm parameter after chilling stress at 5C. The activities of enzymes playing a role in stress defence mechanisms (catalase, glutathione reductase, ascorbate peroxidase, guaiacol peroxidase and glutathione-Stransferase) were determined in control plants and after 1 day of cold treatment. The results suggest that although there are differences between the genotypes in the activities of almost all the antioxidant enzymes, these differences do not reflect the differences in the chilling tolerance.
23783662|Ten Persian wheat cultivars were tested for their crossability and potential for haploid production using two clones of tetraploid Hordeum bulbosum, PB179 and PB168. The frequency of seed setting (crossability) on these cultivars ranged from 0% to 11.6%. PB168 and PB179 had mean seed sets of 0.40% and 1.93% on these cultivars, respectively. Chinese Spring, used as the control, had 41.67% and 53.13% seed set with PB168 and PB179, respectively. Four embryos were obtained from 1533 florets of the Persian cultivars, but with the exception of one embryo from Adle they failed to grow in culture due to their poor differentiation. The Adle embryo regenerated into a haploid plantlet in culture and successful chromosome doubling was achieved.
90002790|The Hungarian Institute of Agricultural Engineering (HIAE) has a high-quality remote sensing device, the AISA DUAL hyper-spectral sensor. The devices sensor operates in the range of 400-2400 nm wavelength and has a high, 1 nm sensitivity inside the visual spectrum. By using the hyper-spectral remote sensing method, the colour values can be calculated to a high level of accuracy and the spatial distribution can also be determined. In the case of the soil and the plant leaves it can be stated that the contents can better be determined by integral optical characteristics (for example: colour), rather than by differentials. High resolution photographs have been taken from the air of a ploughland situated near Bbolna by this instrument, and their colour attributes have been determined. There is a significant connection between the integral optical characteristics, the colour values and the contents of the soil and plant leaves.
90002932|The goal of the research carried out in Zagreb (Croatia) in the period 2002-2004 was to determine the influence of nitrogen fertilization on the seed chemical composition of two grain amaranth varieties belonging to different species: G6 (
90003282|Infection of heads by
90003470|Effective calculation and determination of biomass productivity in different regional and time was not available for precision agricultural practice because of lacking of large scale resolution multi and hyperspectral data sources and also its methodology of processing. Products of new generation of satellite and airborne sensors could give advanced tool for end users to fill this gap. In this paper a 8 years time series from satellite multispectral remote sensing data model was introduced in the region of Bks-Csand Loess Plateau (BCSLP, 172737 ha). The estimation of biomass production changing related to actual yearly available water resources (i.e. drought and/or excess water stress). The effects of changing spectral and physical space and time of Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) correlated with Relative Frequency of Excess Water Inundation, Precipitation, Potential Evapotranspiration (PET) and Leaf Area Index (LAI) were calculated to enhance and modify regional water balance equitation. Based on our biomass potential evaluation method could be develop better irrigation and water management practise on the Bks-Csand Loess Plateau.
23789324|The objective of this research was to evaluate the actual agronomic performance in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and hexaploid triticale (X Triticosecale Wittmack) based on the use of a selection index constituted by eleven traits measured at plot level. Two samples of 142 S0 hexaploid triticale progenies and 89 S0 bread wheat progenies were sown under rainfed conditions and a selection index was constituted using the following traits: spikes (n plant1 and n plot1), grain and biological yield (g plot1), harvest index (%), 1000 grain weight (g), grain (n plot1), grain and biomass yield (g spike1), harvest index spike1 (%) and straw yield (g spike1). A disruptive selection intensity of 7.0 % (triticale) and 11.2% (bread wheat) was applied in both directions of the frequency distributions for the selection index. The 20 S1 triticale families (ten per group) and 20 S1 bread wheat families (ten per group) were evaluated during 2003. Grain and biological yield (g m2), spikes (n m2), 1000 grain weight (g), harvest index (%) and grain (n m2) were measured and the differential and the response to selection were estimated from the S0 progenies and S1 derived families, respectively. A higher number of significant differences between the higher and lower index group mean values were observed for the bread wheat germplasm. In both species and for all measured traits, the mean values corresponding to the higher group were greater than those observed in the lower one. These results confirm that using a selection index it is possible to get a harmonic yield improvement in both species.
23783641|The water potential (w), the activity of in vivo nitrate reductase (NRA) and the total activity of acid phosphatase (APA), were determined in leaves of three varieties of wheat (T. aestivum), at the end of a period of cessation of watering (CW) and 24 hours after watering resumption. The assays were sensitive to cessation of watering. As w lowered, NRA decreased repidly whereas APA increased significantly. When irrigation resumed, the opposite variation was observed. Thus the assays were sensitive to variation of w. The variability of the assays used to measure the activities was too high however to allow consistent differences among varieties to be shown. An increased variability was observed after rewatering especially in the case of NRA.
90003325|Several types at the Fusarium sp control exist besides testing resistance and different biological control through f.e.Trichoderma. The growth inhibition of mycelium of
23783746|The high effectiveness of wheat anther float culture on liquid induction media was confirmed, and the high induction potential of media containing cooked potato broth was demonstrated. Serial transfer of anthers to fresh media proved unnecessary and subject to contamination. Higher proportions of calli which floated to the medium surface became regenerable. Adding Ficoll 400 at 200 g/l increased the medium viscosity and increased the numbers of calli floating on the medium surface. Wheat genotype differences were found for yields of induced calli/embroyoids as well as for green vs. albino plantlets regenerated. The improved access to air via Ficoll addition, perhaps also interacting with wheat genotype, increased the proportion of calli/embryoids regenerable into green plantlets. Plant growth regulators (PGR's), except possibly kinetin (KT) (in "1902" semi-solid regeneration medium) proved unnecessary for high regeneration when calli/embryoids were induced with PGR's in P-4 liquid medium. Inclusion of Napthalene acetic acid (NAA) or Indole acetic acid (IAA) in the P-4 induction medium increased the proportion of embryoids vs. calli produced on induction medium, and thereby increased the yield of regenerable haploid plantlets. Our results demonstrate clearly that the nutritional and hormonal composition as well as the physical environment of the induction medium proved primary determinants for increased yields of regenerable calli/embryoids produced from wheat anther culture.
23787209|The objectives of the present study were to evaluate the genotype-environment interaction (GxE) in a temperate region of rice (Oryza sativa L.) using a low number of environments and to compare the Joint Regression Analysis (JRA) and AMMI (additive main effects and multiplicative interactions) methods in the quantification of GxE. Grain yield (GY) of commercial genotypes and inbreed lines of rice sowing in Argentina were used. GxE and the environment sum of square (SS) was highly significant (p<0.001), meaning while genotype SS was non- significant. Regression heterogeneity of JRA was non-significant explaining only 16,8 % of SS. The first axis of principal component analysis of AMMI explained 73% of interactions SS. The AMMI model retained 70.62 % of the total SS, while only 57.9 % was explained by JRA. The AMMI model was more efficient that JRA to evaluate GxE in rice under low number of environments. Both, registered low radiation and temperature values near crop anthesis appear related to high expression of GxE in this marginal region. The growing cycle of genotypes is an important factor to take into account in the objectives of rice breeding program for temperate zones.
23780332|Two viable hybrids were obtained using embryo culture from intercrossing Hordeum jubatum (2n=28) with Secale kuprijanovii (2n=14). Chromosome pairing of 21-chromosome hybrids was comparatively low. Apart from homologous barley-barley and inhomologous rye-rye even homoeologous barley-rye chiasmatic associations were evident in about 1 % of the PHCs.
90003040|The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of four foliar fertilization treatments (Control, Epso Salt, Megagreen, Drin) and water stress on potato tuber yield, the number of tubers by size and the number of tubers with brown spots. Foliar fertilization was carried out five times during vegetation in the period from the start of tuber formation to the stage of full tuberization. The water deficit stress was induced at the stage of full tuberization. Potato tuber yield was greatly reduced under water stress conditions, and so was the number of large tuber size grade 50-75 mm. Foliar fertilization resulted in higher resistance to water deficit. Significantly the highest potato tuber yield and the 50-75 mm tuber size grade was achieved by Epso Salt treatment, the lowest yield by Drin treatment.
23790350|Ten different Iranian cultivars of bread wheat (Alamoot, Alvand, Arta, Bahar, Chamran, Darya, Dez, Pishtaz, Shahriar and Tajan) were examined for their bread-making properties. To determine the best wheat cultivar, several quality attributes such as protein content on a dry basis (PRT), wet gluten content (WGL), Zeleny (ZLN) and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) sedimentation values, hardness of grain (HRD) and bread volume (BVOL) were measured. Additionally, high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GSs) and low molecular weight glutenin subunits (LMW-GSs) of the wheat cultivars were studied using sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Two alleles (2 + 12 and 5 + 10) were identified at HMW-GS Glu-D1 locus. Significant correlations were found between PRT and each of the following parameters: ZLN (r=0.67), BVOL (r=0.73), HRD (r=0.71) and 5 + 10 subunit (r=0.66). Also, correlation between BVOL and HRD (r=0.67) and that between subunit 5 + 10 and BVOL (r=0.71) were significant. Among HMW-GSs, 5 + 10 subunit had significant influence on bread-making qualities. Significant positive correlations were obtained for LMW-GSs with HRD and ZLN. Considering the traits such as PRT, HRD, SDS, WGL, ZLN, BVOL, HMW-GS (5 + 10) and LMW-GSs, it was concluded that Bahar was the best choice for making bread. Tajan was ranked as the second best cultivar using the HRD, SDS, ZLN, BVOL, HMW-GSs and LMW-GSs data.
23784240|Advanced bread wheat lines ( Triticum aestivum). durum wheat ( T. durum), hybrids derived from T. aestivum with Agropyron spp. and lines from basic germplasm were evaluated for resistance to Tilletia indica. Plants were artificially inoculated during boot stage with a sporidial suspension of 104/ml on three planting dates at CIANO, Cd. Obregon, Sonora, Mexico, during 1990-91. Percentages of lines with levels of infection below 5% were 33.3 for lines derived from intergeneric crosses, 36.4 for bread wheats, 59.5 for lines from the basic germplasm development program and 80.8 for durum wheats. The average percent infection of the susceptible check was 73%.
90002672|We analyzed triticale grain samples from variety testing trials in five habitats in 2007. After controlling the calibration, we found that NIR analysis is suited to characterize the raw-protein and wet gluten content of samples. During our examinations, we found bigger significant difference in the qualities examined between the habitats than the varieties. Coefficients of variation were higher among the varieties. Sequences of varieties in case of either quality were very variable per habitat. Habitat differences originated from differing of soil parameters and meteorological circumstances (mainly the distribution and amount of precipitation).
90003126|During the course of the fifteen years that have past since the change of the regime, the employment structure based on the national economic branches has undergone sweeping economic-social changes. All these changes have influenced the agriculture as well. During these fifteen years the role of traditional agriculture within national economy has shown a downward tendency. Changes, experienced in the field of the economic structure resulted in the reduction of the rate of agricultural employees; a tendency that is equivalent with the process experienced within the European Union. The aim of maintaining the development put emphasis on the increase of agricultural intensity, which yields the decline of agricultural employment. Given the fact that agricultural employment has an important role not just in agricultural commodity production but in the local maintenance of the population as well, the decrease of agricultural employment seriously affected rural inhabitants. In some regions, agriculture is the sole possible source of employment. In the presentation I examine agricultural employment in the Hungarian regions, the divergences between the regions and finally, with the consideration of regional migration potentials, I study the tendencies in the agriculture of the European Union.
23783099|A diallel cross was made with five winter wheat cultivars. Two sets of experimental material, consisting of the parents and the F1-hybrid progeny were maintained at a maximum of 50% and 80% field capacity respectively. The diallel analysis of Griffing (1956) was used to analyse the data. General combining ability (GCA) and specific combining ability (SCA) mean squares were highly significant for all traits measured at both moisture levels. GCA to SCA mean square ratios indicated a strong predominance of additive gene active for yield and yield components at both moisture levels. GCA effects were mainly positive, and neither GCA effects nor rankings varied much for the two moisture levels. SCA effects were predominantly negative, and rankings and effect values varied for the two moisture levels. Heterosis was expressed in only a few hybrids.
90003193|The response of spring genotypes of
90003437|Field experiment with 6 soil tillage systems was set up on Stagnosol in Central Croatia in 1994. Tillage systems differed in tools that were used, depth and direction of tillage. 13 years after experiment establishment, oil seed rape was cover crop (season 2006/07). In 2007 soil resistance, bulk density and soil water content data were collected in order to detect effects of different soil tillage systems on soil compaction. Data were obtained at 4 depths in different time intervals during vegetation period. Statistical data evaluation showed significant differences in soil resistance between all tillage systems at all depths. Soil resistance varied at depth 0-10 cm from 0.46 to 2.82 MPa, at depth 10-20 cm from 0.85 to 3.85 MPa, at depth 20-30 cm from 1.02 to 5.01 and at depth 30-40 cm from 1.21 to 5.31 MPa. Bulk density values at all depths of all tillage systems varied from 1.46 to 1.73 g cm
23782790|One hundred and ten rice varities were studied with respect to the natural variability for quantitative and qualitative losses due to milling. Both of these traits displayed wide variability among the genotypes studied. However, no significant relationship was found to exist between milling loss and protein loss due to polishing. Of the kernel characteristics studied, kernel breadth had a positive correlation with the loss of weight and loss of protein due to milling. In addition high protein lines suffered the least loss of weight due to polishing.
23786182|Advanced durum wheat lines obtained from crosses with different Triticum and Aegilops species and some of the wheat parents involved in these crosses were compared for their adaptation to Mediterranean drought conditions. Field studies were undertaken under rainfed conditions during two successive years at Montpellier (South France). Carbon isotope discrimination () of flag leaf and grain, specific leaf dry weight, grain yield, total biomass and harvest index were measured. Differences between interspecific lines and durum wheat genotypes occurred mainly under water stressed conditions. Lines derived from crosses between T. durum and each of Ae. columnaris, T. dicoccoides and T.carthlicum showed higher  values and correlatively higher grain yield and harvest index under stress conditions. Our results emphasise the potential interest to use these tetraploid wheat species for drought tolerance improvement in durum wheat.
90003088|Long-term chemical fertilisation field experiment was carried out with maize to study the effect of soil P supply on the P-Zn interactions. On chernozem meadow soil at 120-360 mg kg
90002890|Soil profiles were examined in the field to give a description of pedological background of the examined areas. A data matrix containing 45 relevs and 101 species was used for multivariate data analyses from which two dendrograms were calculated by the SYN-TAX 2000 computer package. Organic material content of the soil is decreasing as going further from the stable and a similar tendency is showed by phosphorous and potassium content as well. Quantitative data obviously show deviations in the rectification of disturbance, grazing and trampling gradiens, the changes of vegetation can be followed well. During treatments, deviations in changing soil parameters can be showed as well, giving a possible base for future indication studies.
23787192|Wheat germplasms represent a broad resource of genetic diversity that can be used for future wheat breeding efforts. In order to obtain an overview of genetic diversity and relationships of wheat landraces, we collected diverse genetic materials from Kahramanmaras, located in the East-mediterranean Region of Turkey. Landraces, collected from the region, were classified into species by using morphological, physiological and agronomic characteristics. In addition, differences among gliadin proteins of landraces were identified by SDS-PAGE electrophoresis. We identified fourteen accessions, six genotypes of T. aestivum which were T. aestivum L. ssp. vulgare Vill.; T. aestivum L. ssp. vulgare Vill. v. graecum Krn.; T. aestivum L. ssp. vulgare Vill. v. erythroleucon Krn; T. aestivum L. ssp. compactum v. splendes; T. aestivum L. ssp. compactum v. pseudo-rupriceps Flaksb.; T. aestivum L. ssp. compactum v. humboldtii; and six genotypes of durum, which were T. durum Desf. v. leucurum Al.; T. durum Desf. v. hordeiforme Krn.; T. durum Desf.; T. durum Desf. ssp. duro-compactum Flaksb. v. recognitum Perc.; T. durum Desf. ssp. duro-compactum Flaksb. v. pseudo-hordeiforme Flaksb; T. durum Desf. ssp. duro-compactum Flaksb; one accession of T. vavilovii Sears and one accession of T. turanicum Jakubz. (T. orientale Pers.). Landraces had a large genetic diversity for agronomic traits, such as 1000-grain weight, grain number and weight per head, while they had narrow diversity for the other traits.
23786145|Genetic control of low-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (LMW-GS) of nullisomictetrasomic (NT) and ditelocentric (DT) lines of Chinese Spring, and substitution lines of Cheyenne-Wichiita were investigated using acid-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (APAGE) analysis. The results showed that genes coding for about 20 LMW-GS could be localized on the short arms (Glu-3 loci) of homologous group 1 chromosomes. On the basis of linkages between Gli-1 loci and Glu-3 loci, several LMW-GS were showed to be coded by different Glu-3 loci by the analysis of F3 generation of Sana x Francuska hybrid. Of 8 LMW glutenin subunits analyzed, 2, 3 and 3 LMW-GS were controlled by Glu-A3, Glu-B3 and GluD3 locus, respectively. A-PAGE was capable of rapid, high-resolution separation of glutenin subunits. This system, thus, may become a more efficient alternative to routine SDS-PAGE for investigating composition and genetic control of wheat glutenin subunits.
23787202|The six partially stripe rust resistant cultivars namely Apache 81, Noroesta 66, Opata 85, PBW65, Shailaja and Trap#1 having partial resistance to stripe rust and a susceptible cultivar WL711 were intercrossed in a diallel fashion (excluding reciprocals) to examine the nature of genes controlling resistance to stripe rust measured as terminal stripe rust severity and area under disease progress curve. Highly significant D, H1 and H2 components for both the traits indicated predominance of both additive and dominant genes controlling partial resistance to stripe rust in the six parents. Highly significant gca (general combining ability) and sca (specific combining ability) effects also confirmed this finding. Parents PBW65, Opata 85 and Trap#1 were good general combiners for partial stripe rust resistance. Of all the possible crosses studied, the cross Trap#1 X Shailaja was the best specific combiner. The VrWr graphic analysis indicated that susceptible cultivar WL711 has only recessive genes conferring susceptibility. The cultivars PBW65, Trap#1 and Opata 85 appeared to contain maximum number of dominant genes whereas the resistance of Shailaja, Apache 81 and Noroesta 66 was controlled by additive genes.
23785362|RAPD-PCR analysis differentiated all isolates of Gliocladium catenulatum, G. nigrovirens and G. roseum from each other, when the combined results of six RAPD-PCR primers were used. The isolates of Nectria pityrodes and G. virens could be distinguished from G. catenulatum, G. nigrovirens and G. roseum isolates by any of the six RAPD-PCR primers of the present work. Nectria pityrodes strain J76, promising in biological control of plant diseases, could be separated from other N. pityrodes isolates using primer OPA-01. In the phenetic and phylogenetic analyses the only G. virens isolate and one of the G. nigrovirens isolates were clearly distinguished from the rest of Gliocladium isolates. The two G. roseum isolates and the rest of G. nigrovirens isolates were nested within the clusters and clades of G. catenulatum isolates. The only clear difference between isolates in sequence analysis of ITS1 and ITS2 was found between G. virens and the rest of Gliocladium isolates.
23780338|One tall, two semi-dwarf and one dwarf winter wheat varieties were treated with 5, 10, 20 and 50 ppm GA3 solution from the 30th to the last day of vernalisation. On the 2nd day after the end of vernalisation genotypes of various heights could be distinguished by measuring the total seedling height to the upper leaf node. The differences in GA3 insensitivity due to different doses were considerably smaller than those between the individual varieties. During raising, plants of Maris Fundin and Zg 884/73, treated with GA3 and planted out without cutting back, headed 3.5-4.7 days earlier than the control. Data on yield components and plant height at maturity show that in practice plants raised from seedlings treated with GA3 are just as valuable for breeding as the control plants.
90002765|In our study we have examined the effect of mineral fertilization on the extensigraph characteristics of wheat-flours. The baking quality of winter wheat is largely determined by variety, but it can be influenced by fertilization. Flours were from 3 varieties grown at six nitrogen fertilizer. The average gluten content of varieties was very different (30.4, 35.8, and 41.7%, respectively). We have found that the extensigraph properties of dough are affected by mineral fertilization, nevertheless, different varieties distinctly react to the increase of the proportions of fertilizer. Based on our investigations, we have come to the conclusion that the application of higher doses of nitrogen fertilizer did not improve the rheological properties of dough samples beyond a certain level.
90003429|Maize stalk strength is determined by two main factors: the mechanical structure of the stalk and a biotic stress factor, fusarium stalk rot. The degree of infection of three hybrids and their parental lines to fusarium stalk rot was tested by artificial inoculation with two
90003140|Croatian clove,
23783658|Recently developed "one-irrigation" barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genotypes are potentially useful under reduced water use conditions in arid and semi-arid regions of the world. The purpose of this study is to determine optimum seeding rates for this novel germplasm. Field studies were conducted at two locations in the state of Arizona, U.S.A. comparing one-irrigation barley grain yield over a range of seeding rates, planting dates, and growing seasons. At Marana, increasing seeding rate above 54 seeds m2 resulted in detectable yield increases in only one out of 12 combinations of variety, planting date, and growing season. A variety x seeding rate interaction was significant in one out of six trials while planting date x seeding rate interactions were not significant at Marana. In the trials conducted at Maricopa, the optimum seeding rate was usually 54 seeds m2. Although planting date x seeding rate interactions were detected both years at Maricopa, optimum seeding rates for various planting times were not consistent between years. The optimum seeding rate of one-irrigation barley grown under commercial conditions will vary according to plant emergence and its spatial variation, as well as growing season conditions.
90003109|The topsoil is one of the most important components in grassland and sustains the sward physically, chemically and biologically. Farmers often refer to the soil-sward-animal complex or interrelations to underline the fact that the proper functionings of all three are inextricably linked. Grazing has a favourable effect on animals  however, grazing also has a major effect on the plant stock of pastured grasslands. Sheep do not feed plants from urine patches, which may result in a change in the diversity of plants on the pasture. One of the aims of our research was to examine the effect of animal excreta coverage on grassland biodiversity improvement. The research took place on nature conservation grassland areas, pasturing ewes. We analyzed the effect of urine induced lush patches on sustaining the diversity of plant species. Results showed that lush patches were grazed unevenly. The outer circle, app. 15% of the patches has been grazed, a further 15-20% has been somewhat grazed, while the middle of the patch, 60-70% remained ungrazed. In the first growth, grass species in the middle of the lush patch seed heads (40-150 patch
90002713|Wastes of oil refineries contain potentially dangerous chemicals for the environment. The toxicity of these wastes, beside chemical analytical methods, should be described by comprehensive ecotoxicological tests as well. We carried out the characterization of the very toxic waste spent caustic stems from the desulphurization process by investigating the effects of spent caustic on the growth of a special eucaryotic symbiosis. The untreated spent caustic was shown to be highly toxic while the catalytically treated liquid proved to be toxic only by our ecotoxicological test method. The results are consistent with those of conventional
23777641|Six generations i.e. P1, P2, F1, F2, BC1 and BC2 of each of 15 wheat crosses were used in estimation of gene effects for sedimentation value. Significant additive genetic effect 'a' was detected in 4 crosses via Kalyansona x S 307, NP 852 x S 307, NP 852 x UP 301 and UP 302 x S 307. Only two crosses (UP 301 x S 307 and NP 852 x UP 302) exhibited significant dominance effect. Significant epistasis was absent in all the crosses except in UP 301 x S 307 and NP 852 x UP 302. These results indicate significant potential for improving sedimentation value through selection.
23783916|The main result of the durum research program of CRI is, that the durum wheat was successfully domesticated in Hungary. Now the acreage of durum wheat in Hungary is about 14000 ha, and this area is growing from year to year. The registered durum cultivars of CRI are the following: GK Minaret, GK Basa, GK Tiszadur, GK Novodur. These winter durum varieties yield generally only 15-30 % less than the most widely produced winter bread wheat cultivars (T. aestivum L.). The yield of spring durum varieties is 45-50 % less than the yield of winter bread wheats.
90003260|
               
90003216|We investigated the effect of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) controlling resistance to Fusarium head blight (FHB) on grain damage and deoxynivalenol (DON) accumulation in recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from the cross between U24 and Saikai 165. U24 is a cleistogamous genotype while Saikai 165 has FHB resistance derived from Sumai 3. Our results show that the genotypes with FHB resistance QTLs located on chromosome arms 3BS and 5AS had the lowest grain damage and DON concentration.
90003032|Topramezone is a newly introduced herbicide for use in maize. Field experiments were carried out on several locations during a three year period. Untreated check (weedy check), two rates of topramezone (low a.i. 50.4 and high 67.5 g  ha
90003135|According to the different publications and professional literature, the most common comprehensive index for measuring the development level of different territorial units and which is also able to reflect several factors at the same time is the gross domestic product (GDP). GDP has been used to compare the developments of individual countries for long, but its application for regions only started in the past few years. However it must be emphasized that GDP is not the only index for economic development, so it must not be declared as the only one index for counties and regions, but it is recommended to apply other statistical indices also in territorial analyses (PUKLI 2000).
23782760|Regeneration was achieved from immature inflorescence calli of Triticum aestivum x Aegilops variabilis hybrids. Variation in chromosome number and meiotic pairing was analysed amongst 33 regenerants including three aneuploids. Tissue culture induces disturbances in chiasma frequency. One regenerant had a level of pairing comparable to that of a hybrid between Ae. variabilis and a Ph deficient wheat line. The potential of somatic tissue culture as a tool in alien gene introgression is discussed.
23777671|Nature and magnitude of combining ability in 243 crosses of Pearl Millet involving 3 female parents and 81 male parents was studied in respect of four characters viz., plant height, ear length, ear girth and grain yield. Hybrids did not differ significantly for ear girth. Therefore, combining ability was estimated for three characters. Good general combiners and specific combiners for each characters was identified and were used for composite and hybrid development program. The possibility for the development of new good inbreds has been discussed.
90002782|In Hungary water supply comes more and more a determinative factor in processing tomato, thanks to the climatic variability. Water is a limited quantity element so we had to take care about it. Drip irrigation is a useful technology to save water, because this type of irrigation got the highest benefit. As an effect of irrigation the significant difference between plant weight and yield in the three water supply treatments (regularly, cut off 25 days before harvest and unirrigated) we measured. Cut off irrigation could help us to maximise our profit, because in the year 2007, the cut off plants got higher production of dry matter/plant than the regularly irrigated and the unirrigated.
23781544|Facultative apomixis occurs in Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench through various ways. So far this was not put to practical application in the fixation of heterozygosity. In the present study several facultative apomicts were synthesized using the original facultative apomict, R 473. The F1 hybrids between these synthesized lines behaved in a manner different from that of normal sexual F1's. Each time the F2 progeny contained a mixture of F1 looking heterotic plants and sexual segregates, the former occurring in a greater frequency. This resulted in formulating a new concept in sorghum breeding viz., breeding vybrids. Vybrids were defined as the progenies obtained from crossing two facultative apomicts, which reproduce through facultative apomixis. Yield level of these vybrids is expected to be intermediate between pure line varieties and hybrids. Vybrids could be perpetuated through seed harvested from F1 looking plants in each generation.
23783899|It is now well recognized that the HMW glutenin subunits, coded by the genes at the Glu-1 loci, are related to significant differences in bread making quality. The aim of this paper was to relate the RFLP pattern at the Glu-1 loci to the bread-making quality of different wheat cultivars, and also to the allelic variability of the HMW glutenin subunits obtained by SDS-PAGE. Significant differences in sedimentation value, yield of flour, loaf volume and loaf quality, were found between cultivars possessing 2.3 kb fragment when compared with those lacking this fragment.
23790345|Complex cell walls of barley hulls contain phenolic constituents  hydroxycinnamic acids, mainly ferulic acid (3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-cinnamic acid, FA) and para-coumaric acid (4-hydroxycinnamic acid, PCA). Ferulic acid is produced via the phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway and is covalently cross-linked to polysaccharides by ester bonds and to components of lignin mainly by ether bonds. Various studies have consistently indicated that FA is among the factors most inhibitory to the biodegradability of plant cell wall polysaccharides. PCA is also covalently linked to polysaccharides (minor) and lignin (major), but PCA does not form the inhibitory cross-linkages as FA does. It is considered to represent plant cell wall lignification. The objective of this study was to determine the genotypic variation and magnitude of difference in the concentration of the hydroxycinnamic acids in terms of FA and PCA as well as their ratios in barley hull and seeds in sixteen varieties of barley collected during three years. These data will be correlated to barley nutrient availability in future study. The barley varieties included CDC Cowboy, Valier, TR251, Newdale, RCSL97, KXN/TLN-147 (AU), WABAR2160 (AU), Harrington, CDC Copeland, CDC Kendall, AC Metcalfe, CDC Dolly, McLeod, CDC Bold, CDC Helgason and CDC Trey. The focus of this study was on ferulic acid because of its inhibitory effect on rumen degradation and digestion which are highly related to nutrient availability in animals. The results showed significant differences (P < 0.01) a mong the barley varieties in ferulic acid and p-coumaric acid and their ratio. Whole barley seed contained higher (P<0.05) ferulic acid concentration than p-coumaric acid, ranging from 509 to 679 g/g DM for ferulic acid and 131 to 345 g/g DM for p-coumaric acid. The ratios of ferulic acid to p-coumaric acid ranged from 1.8 to 3.9. The ferulic acid concentration in hull was higher (P < 0.05) than that in whole seed, ranging from 2,320 to 4,206 g/g DM. Percentage of ferulic acid content in hull and dehulled seed ranged from 38 to 70% and 30 to 62%, respectively. Growth year affect affected the hydroxycinnamic acid profiles in barley seed and hull. In conclusion, there were large differences in the ferulic acid and para-coumaric acid among the barley varieties indicating genotypic variation. Harrington contained highest and Valier contained lowest FA in whole seed. Barley TR251 contained lowest % of FA content in the hull and highest % of FA content in the dehulled seed. Future study is needed to understand the relationship between the hydroxycinnamic acid profile in barley seeds and hull and nutrient utilization and availability of barley in animals.
23786166|We describing herewith the distribution behaviour of PCR primers designed on a newly identified putative transposon (OsIR36) in a 820 bp Pst1 repeat family rice genomic DNA clone (RG 104, a gift from Prof. S. D. Tanksley, Cornell University, USA) sequence. The sequence is of middle repetitive in nature, and matches closely with the already identified 'Stowaway' like plant transposon. The primers designed from the repeat motifs of the sequence were successfully used for (i) variety identification; (ii) pedigree analysis and (iii) estimation of genetic/evolutionary distances between the cultivars.
23787276|Fusarium Head Blight (FHB) is a disease of increasing concern in wheat growing areas of northwestern Europe. The disease causes a reduction in grain yield and quality, and the production of mycotoxins. It is the latter area that elevates this disease to a higher order of importance due to the adverse effects reported on animal and human health. Metconazole was evaluated in trials over a three-year period. The initial trial was a study of the efficacy of metconazole and tebuconazole in the control of FHB in spring wheat. In 1997, all fungicide treatments had significantly less disease (P<0.01) than the untreated. Metconazole applied 72 hours after inoculation led to a slower rate of disease development than tebuconazole applied after 48 hours. However, there was no significant difference between tebuconazole and metconazole when they were applied at the same timing. When this trial was repeated in 1998, there was a slight, yet statistically significant, difference in favour of the tebuconazole treatment at the first assessment date (21 days post inoculation). Thereafter, fungicide-treated plots had significantly less disease than untreated with no significant differences among individual fungicide treatments. Since strobilurins are now the dominant fungicide chemistry, the effect of metconazole alone and in combination with a strobilurin (azoxystrobin) on FHB was studied in 1998. No significant difference in efficacy was recorded between metconazole and a combination of metconazole and azoxystrobin. Both treatments were significantly better in controlling ear and seed symptoms than azoxystrobin alone and the untreated. Three fungicide application timings were evaluated: a pre, a post and pre+ post inoculation application. Post inoculation (48 hours) treatment with metconazole or metconazole + azoxystrobin was found to be the most effective and no additional control was achieved by splitting the application timing. This trial, with the addition of trifloxystrobin alone and in combination with metconazole was repeated in 1999. Metconazole alone and in mixtures, again, gave significantly better FHB control than all other treatments. Trifloxystrobin was significantly better than azoxystrobin alone in controlling F. culmorum. However, it was not as effective as the metconazole formulations.
23786870|Development of a gene pool through multiple-parent crossing and recurrent selection, using the dominant male-sterile gene Ta1(ms2), is a new approach to breeding for resistance to scab or Fusarium headblight in wheat. Some desirable scab-resistant germplasm resources have been developed jointly by this method and conventional selection. In a 3-replicate randomized block trial, the mean performance of 26 recurrent selection strains from the gene pool was distinctly better than that of the 19 original parents for scab resistance, plant height, biomass, grain yield, harvest index, 1000-grain weight, kernels per spike, etc. W14, Changjiang 9306, 9307 and 9311 possess higher resistance to disease spread, shorter plant height and better yield traits than the well-known resistant cultivar Sumai 3. Changjiang 8809 and TFSL037 nearly reached to the level of Sumai 3 in scab resistance, and overyielded by 3--5% compared with the wide-grown cultivar Yangmai 5.
23787563|Twenty-five winter wheat cultivars (cv.s) were evaluated for their ability to produce embryogenic callus, eventually plantlets, as well as the agronomic performance in the field to determine the relationship between tissue culture and agronomic traits. There were significant genotype effects on callus formation, callus fresh and dry weight, callus moisture content, embryogenic calli formation and the frequency of plant regeneration. Relationship between tissue culture and agronomic traits was examined by correlation and regression analysis. Important relationships between the two traits were found such as the frequency of plantlets regeneration from immature embryos could be estimated from spike number per m2. Such relationships may be due to the fact that plantlets regeneration might be controlled by the genetic system controlling the incidence of spike number per m2 or partial linkage with it. This result suggests that it is possible to screen genotypes with good tissue culture traits directly at the agronomic trait level, a practice rather simple and straightforward.
90002901|Changes in photosynthetic activity and agronomic parameters as the result of low water supplies and heat stress were examined in two winter wheat varieties. These extreme conditions had a substantial influence on physiological processes and could thus exert a negative effect on plant productivity. The plants responded to reduced water supplies by stomatal closure, resulting in a considerable decline in transpiration and photosynthetic activity. By contrast, heat stress stimulated transpiration, as the stomata were more widely open than in the control plants on the second day of treatment. By the 8
23789793|The efficiency of anther culture induction in solid and liquid medium C17 was compared for nine triticale genotypes. For all genotypes androgenic embryos and green plants efficiency was higher on liquid medium. On liquid medium 22.2135.9 and on solid medium 27.5121.3 androgenic embryos /100 anthers were produced. The embryos were transferred to a regeneration medium 190-2 and also a higher number of green plants (ranging from 3.0 to 31.4 /100 anthers) were obtained in liquid culture compared with the yield of plants (1.621.0) on solid medium.
23778560|The parental cultivars, F1, F2 and six selected homozygous doubled haploids from each of the five barley crosses were grown at one location for 2 years. Grain yield, days to heading and plant height were examined. The F1 hybrids for three crosses (R2, R3 and R10) showed marked heterosis for yield. However, the yields of a number of doubled haploid lines from these crosses were as high as the F1 hybrids. It was concluded that fixation of genes involved in heterosis was possible and relatively easy for some crosses in barley.
90002779|Damage caused by excess waters can be occurred about 1.8 million hectares, from which 60% is located in the arable-land in Hungary. Because of global climate change the frequency of excess water inundations related to land use risk may be higher in the near future. The investigated area was the Bks-Csand Loess Plateau. In our study we examined the relation between saturated buffer zones of excess water inundations and land use risks based on CLC50 database. The highest land use risk values were found on those areas which used for extensive agricultural production. Accordingly there is a need for an adequate field specified sustainable agricultural production which can take into consideration the actual risk of excess water inundation with different saturated zones. The results assisted and enabled the land use planning of the inundated and saturated areas by excess water, as well as it could be used for the calculation of different water management and land use scenarios.
90003166|The response to natural and artificial
23790343|The Russian wheat aphid (RWA), Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko), is notorious for causing severe yield losses in many of the wheat producing areas of the world. The phenylpropanoid pathway is involved in many plant defence mechanisms. Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) is a key enzyme leading to biosynthesis of phenolic acids, some of which are involved in plant defence mechanisms. The effect of RWA infestation on PAL activity and phenolic acid composition was studied in resistant (Tugela DN) and susceptible (Tugela) wheat cultivars. PAL activity was selectively induced in the infested resistant wheat. The increase in PAL activity was reflected in the selective increase in certain phenolic acid concentrations. The phenolic acids that were selectively induced in resistant wheat upon RWA infestation were identified using the authentic phenolic acids p-hydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid, resorcyclic acid, gentisic acid, caffeic acid, p-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, and ferulic acid. The induced levels of these phenolic acids corresponded to the peak PAL activities. It is evident that the phenylpropanoid pathway contributes to the resistance of wheat to the RWA.
23786152|One hundred and forty durum wheat genotypes were used in this study. They were divided into four groups: I- mutant lines (50) II- local varieties (20), III- ACSAD lines (22) and IV-ICARDA lines (48). The genotypes were studied for the composition of high (HMWGS) and low (LMWGS) molecular weight glutenin subunits as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-poly acrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). All studied genotypes possessed the null allele at Glu-A1. The results demonstrated that durum wheats differed in the allelic compositions at Glu-B1. Four different allelic subunit combinations were realized at Glu-B1 with 7+8 being the most frequent and 6+15 the least frequent subunit combinations. 7+8 were abundant in groups I and III whereas subunit 20 was most frequent in groups II and IV. At Glu-B3 locus, LMW1 constituted 41% and LMW2 appeared in 59% of the genotypes. However, LMW1 was the sole allele in group I (100%) as compared to LMW2 which constituted 85%, 90% and 94% of Glu-B3 in groups II, III and IV respectively. These results differed from those reported in the literature and were discussed in terms of their potential use in breeding programs.
23787303|The effects of environmental conditions (year, growing site) on protein compounds in buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) were studied. Small-plot experiments with four buckwheat cultivars (tetraploid Emka and diploid Kora, Pyra, and Krupinka) were established in two growing sites in 1999 and 2000. Crude and pure protein content, proportion of protein solubility fractions, SDS-PAGE of protein fractions, and immunoassay of gluten-like proteins were determined in buckwheat flour. The growing site had the most significant effect on variability of crude protein content. On the contrary, pure protein content was most of all affected by year. Apparently a higher occurrence of later developed buckwheat seeds in 1999 harvest (as a consequence of weather abnormalities) could generally cause lower content of pure protein in this year (7.32 %) than in 2000 (9.10 %). Alcohol-soluble protein fraction (prolamins like proteins, PLP), considered as inconvenient for gluten-free diet, was generally found at low level, but at the average of experiment, significant differences (P < 0.05) between years 1999 and 2000 were recorded, 2.12 and 5.37 % of crude protein, respectively. On the other hand, specific determination of harmful gluten-like proteins (GLP) by immunochemical assay (ELISA) revealed, that in the all tested samples their contents were below the detection limit of the method 12.5 mg. kg-1. Obtained SDS-PAGE subunit profile of AGLP was divided into four groups with range of molecular weight 5 - 51 kDa. PLP profile was only represented by a double-band with 17 kDa and by a band with molecular weight of about 8 kDa.
90003474|This work is based on a long term field experiment, in which the effects of increased heavy metal load was studied on soil and crop. Results showed that Cr (VI) was highly toxic for crop in the 1
90003051|Drought stress tolerance of two different winter wheat genotypes was studied in a stress diagnosis system. Quantitative assessment of the water balance elements was performed in order to compare the water regime of the two genotypes in the soil-plant system under favourable and drought-stressed conditions. Statistically significant differences were found between the actual evaporation and transpiration values of the two genotypes. The extremely good drought stress tolerance of the Mv Emese wheat genotype was proved.
23782846|Response to two cycles of structured recurrent selection for grain protein percentage was studied. The base population comprised of 300 F3-families selected for grain protein % from F2 population of the cross Giza 155  Sappo. The F3 families were evaluated for two seasons. The highest ten families in grain protein % were intercrossed to initiate a recurrent selection program. Significant differences among families were obtained in the F3, cycle 1 and cycle 2. The remained genetic variability in cycle 2 hybrids was sufficient for further improvement. The observed response to selection for grain protein % amounted to 10.98% from Giza 155 in the second cycle. However, indirect negative effects on grain yield/plant (8.09%), spikes/ plant (6.39%) and 1000 kernel weight (-9.95%) were obtained. Furthermore, the selected families were taller and late in maturity compared to Giza 155. The genotypic correlation was negative between grain protein % and each of grain yield/plant (0.882), spikes/plant (0.925) and 1000 kernel weight (0.799) and was positive with heading date (0.658) and plant height (0.910) in the second cycle.
23785297|Wheat yield response to sowing date is very well known in Northwest of Mxico; however, sowing date x plant population density has not been studied before. The objective of this work is to set wheat performance at early sowing date when using low plant population density. Six experiments were carried out during two years (1994-96) planting in three different sowing dates (November 15, December first and January 10). Each of these experiments contained five plant population densities treatments (13.5, 24.1, 54 and 217 thousand plants/ha plus a check with 120 kg seed/ha) with three cv: Bacanora T88, Oasis F86 and Tepoca T67. Plant population densities x sowing date interaction was significant. This was due to a higher yield with 117 thousand plants/ha than the check in early dates (end of November) and the opposite in later dates. Plant population density x sowing date x variety interaction was also significant. This was due to the fact that Tepoca T87 response to any increment in seed dosage even in early sowing date. The optimum plant population density was 200 thousand plants/ha for November 15 and 260 for December first. Plant population density response was explained mainly by the tillering capacity of wheat, and sowing date response was mainly due to kernel weight.
23781415|The triticale (xTriticosecale Wittmack) lines in the 12th and 13th International Triticale Screening Nursery were evaluated for BYDV reaction under conditions of artificial virus inoculation in the field. Most lines suffered heavy virus damage, but a small number of lines showed outstanding BYDV resistance similar to the resistance of rye (Secale cereale).
23783945|About 450,000 hectars arable land in the foothill and mountain region, and some flat and hilly location of North and South Bulgaria are characterierized by acid soil and low yields have been obtained by wheat, barley, maize, sunflower. It has been established that the cultivar of triticale "Vihren" shows a marked tolerance to the soil acidity. According to the data of State Varietal Testing on the average for three years (1984-1986) cv. "Vihren" yielded 13,3% more than cv. "Sadovo 1", winter common wheat, in Vrabevo and Lesnovo regions with acid soils (pH=4.0-4.5). In laboratory conditions, the first depression in the root development was found at considerably higher concentration of Al3+ (30 ppm) in nutrient solution, where as in cv. "Sadovo 1" it was between 10-15 ppm. Our data indicated that the tolerance of cv. "Vihren" to the soil acidity was expressed in a weak depressive effect of aluminum-fulvate compounds on the uptake of 32P. It may grow in the regions mentioned above and could significantly increase grain yields.
23786791|The effects of $NO_2^-$ on the ion uptake and growth of wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. GK thalom) and rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Oryzella) seedlings were studied in hydroponic cultures at different pH values. Increasing concentrations of NaNO2 decreased the K+, $H_2PO_4^-$, $SO_4^{2-} and $NO_2^-$ uptake of the roots. The inhibitory effect of 1 mM $NO_2^-$ on ion uptake and growth was small or negligible between pH 6-7, but increasingly severe at lower pH. The inhibitory effect of $NO_2^-$ differed considerably for nutrients and was also different for species. Rice seedlings were more sensitive than wheat seedlings to $NO_2^-$ treatment. The parallel efflux studies revealed no significant effect of even high concentration of NaNO2 (10mM) of the K+ efflux of the roots at pH 6.5, but strongly enhanced the K+ efflux of the roots at pH 4 already at 1 mM NaNO2. The results indicate that $NO_2^-$ may initiate membrane damage at low pH. The presence of $NO_3^-$ in the uptake and/or growth solution decreased the inhibitory effect of $NO_2^-$.
90003205|The
23783082|Some morphological characters together with Giemsa banding patterns indicate that the autotetraploid perennial oat species A.macrostachya could be related to the C genome diploid oats A.eriantha and A.clauda. Chromosome pairing patterns of the hybrid between A.macrostachya and A.eriantha do not confirm such a relationship.
23789909|We generated and analysed transgenic rice lines synthesizing substantial amounts of high-molecular-weight glutenin subunit (HMW-GS) from wheat. Particle bombardment has been used to transform rice cultivars (Orysa sativa L.) with a cassette carrying the gene of 1D5 HMW glutenin subunit. Twelve independent lines were recovered and PCR results on genomic DNS confirmed the integration of the transgene into it. Five lines set seeds. Seeds were analysed by SDS-PAGE and Western blot and we proved the presence of foreign protein in the starchy endosperm. The amount of 1D5 HMW-GS in rice endosperm represents 0.753.18% of the alcohol soluble proteins. These results are the first example of significantly changing storage protein composition of rice exploiting the method of gene technology. This alteration may have considerable effect on the functional properties, including strength and stability of the dough made of transgenic rice flour.
23782983|Postharvest dormancy in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), rye (Secale cereale L.), and other cereals has been well-documented (2,6) but such information is lacking in triticale (X Triticosecale Wittmack) cultivars. Germination of mature seeds at different periods of time following harvest and at different temperatures were studied in three triticale cultivars: 'Beagle' (spring type), 'Councill' (facultative type) and '6TA131' (winter type). Results showed that seed germination in different cultivars increased significantly with increase in temperatures and period after harvest. Germination increase in Beagle was more pronounced, indicating that spring type triticale cultivar posses relatively higher postharvest dormancy than Council and 6TA131.
90003224|Mycotoxins are gaining utmost importance due to the fact that aflatoxins were found to be natural carcinogens prevailing in food and feedstuffs. Chronic health risks are particularly prevalent in India where the diets of the people are highly prone to mycotoxins due to poor harvesting practices, improper storage and transport. The
23780411|Pre-harvest sprouting is closely related with induction of seed dormancy. Although seed dormancy is recognized to be genetic in character, it is remarkably changed by environmental conditions during seed formation. Based on the triphasic pattern of water uptake in germinating seeds, a possible theory of dormancy and germination is presented. Relationships between induction of dormancy and environmental factors in maturing stages were examined. The effect of temperature on induction of dormancy was recognized. Temperatures controlling induction of dormancy differ between short day plants (rice) and long day plants (barley); in maturing stages, rice seed dormancy was induced by high temperatures and that of barley by low temperatures. Regarding day length there is a similar response between rice and barley. The exogenous hormones, ABA, 6BA, and GA, were incorporated in barley ears during maturation. The effects of this incorporation on germination is also discussed.
23789995|Three synthetic bread wheat genotypes and their parental cultivar Cham 6 were used to examine the effects of a strobilurin-class fungicide pyraclostrobin on leaf temperature, root water uptake and grain yield under increasing water deficit conditions. Wheat plants of Cham 6 treated with the pyraclostrobin at the booting stage showed a rapidly increased leaf temperature as compared with the gradually increased leaf temperature of the untreated plants. The final temperature reached, however, was lower for the pyraclostrobin treated plants than the untreated. Potted soil of the treated wheat plants also showed higher water contents than the untreated potted soil, suggesting delay of plant water uptake by pyraclostrobin treatment. A variation in water uptake by roots was also found between the four wheat genotypes examined. Daily water uptake was depressed after the pyraclostrobin treatment in all four wheat genotypes. Grain yields were slightly increased by the pyraclostrobin treatment in field trials under controlled water supply whereas no significant differences were detected in soil water content between treatments. The increase in grain yield by pyraclostrobin treatment might be dependent on the different water uptake of the wheat genotypes. These results suggest that foliage treatment of pyraclostrobin fungicide on wheat delays root water uptake, resulting in postponement of soil dehydration, which contributes to a slight increase of grain yield in some wheat genotypes in the field under water deficit conditions.
90002917|In this paper the effect of plant culture, the pre-culture, the nitrogen supply and the liming were examined on the pH and different carbon-form (organic-C, biomass-C, and the ratio of biomass-C/organic-C) in an ecological farming system on chernozem. The favourite effect of liming on pH was measured especially in the third year after liming. The pea/sweet maize crop-rotation had positive effect on the organic carbon content of soil. Correlation analyzes among the results were made and there were no close correlation among the results, even though the changes in the organic-C succeeded the changes in the biomass-C content of soil.
23782842|A new Giemsa banding technique has been developed for chromosomes of wheat and other cereals. After pretreatment with a dilute solution of 1-bromonaphthalene, fresh root tips are hydrolyzed in 5N HC1, squashed, and then air-dried. The air-dried slides are then treated with hot 1N HC1 and 0.07N KOH at room temperature. The new procedure makes it easy to obtain well-separated and sharply-banded chromosomes, including centromeric banding, and the heterochromatin banding patterns are highly reproducible. We designate this as the HKG (HC1-KOH-Giemsa) banding method.
23779348|In 1975 and 1976 investigations were made on the restorability of several German cms-varieties and -strains with different genetic background. The material consisted of 204 F1-lines in 1975 (68 cms-lines  3 rest.) and 213 F1 in 1976 (71 cms-lines  3 rest.). There are high significant restorability-differences between the cms-lines using the restorers Primepi, Minister and Primepi-selection. An integral part of this diverse restorability could be traced back to non additively genetic effects between cms-lines and restorers.
23789832|Several genotypes of the two "ancients wheats" species, Khorasan wheat and emmer, were evaluated in two different marginal areas of central and southern Italy. They were compared with some old and new released varieties of durum wheat, in order to better understand their agronomic potential and their suitability to be grown in those conditions. Khorasan wheat was the worst yielding species with the highest plant height, kernel and hectolitre weight. Yield and kernel weight from emmer resulted intermediate between the other two species, while plant height did not differ from that of durum wheat. Emmer exhibited high protein and gluten content. Wide genetic response to many traits was found within each species grouping; this suggests that some emmer and Khorasan wheat genotypes have the potential to give high quality product and interesting yield in rainfed marginal areas of central and southern Italy.
90002727|We present a study on the impact of soil and climatic variability on the yield of winter wheat in Hungary. The study was based on the use of National Pedological and Crop Production Database (NPCPD). The analysis was performed using the data of two climatic soil zones (17 selected climatic districts). The brown forest soil area was represented by Lessivated brown forest soils and the chernozem area was characterized by Chernozem soils. Statistical classification methods were used to distinguish significantly different climate categories and winter wheat yield groups. The calculated climate sensitivity factors described the aggregated effects of soil and climate heterogeneity on the crop production.
23787094|The usefulness of (CT)n microsatellite markers of Wx gene in rice starch quality improvement is demonstrated in this paper with 36 F2 plants derived from the cross between Longtefu A (Wx11Wx11) and 371 (Wx18Wx18). The F2 plants could be divided into three groups according to the microsatellite marker, i.e. that of Wx11Wx11 group, Wx11Wx18 group and Wx18Wx18 group. The F3 seeds with the same Wx alleles were bulked to test the starch quality parameters which implied that only the Wx allele was different among the bulked samples while the genetic background was identical. Results indicated that all the starch quality parameters including amylose content (AC), gelatinization temperature (GT), gel consistency (GC) and starch paste viscosity parameters were related significantly to the Wx alleles. However, the amylopectin structure of each group had no relation to the Wx allele. This study indicated that early selections in rice breeding based on Wx microsatellite marker would improve the starch quality.
23783883|Test weight and grain yield were measured among closely related wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) lines for three growing seasons. The correlation between these two traits varied greatly across years. Under stress conditions where yields were low, there was a strong positive relationship. When environmental conditions were favorable and yields were high, there was a relatively strong negative correlation between yield and test weight.
23781383|Several hybrid combinations of Agropyron sp., Elymus sp., Hordeum vulgare, Secale cereale, Triticum turgidum and T. aestivum have been produced. The cytological information obtained from these hybrids and backcross I (BCI) progenies is presented, including amphiploidy, mitotic variations in BCI progenies, meiotic restitution, somatic doubling, and haploid production. The practical significance of these observations in intergeneric hybridization and T. aestivum germplasm improvement is discussed.
23789302|In the province of Kosovo there exists no local wheat breeding programme; cultivars grown were originally developed and registered in former Yugoslavia and other neighbouring countries. Within the general attempt to reconstruct the agriculture of Kosovo a three-year study was undertaken to establish winter wheat genotypes adapted to Kosovan growing conditions. Seventy-seven international winter wheat cultivars and/or breeding lines were tested for their agronomic and quality performance in 2000; forty-nine selected genotypes of the nursery were further tested in 2001 and 2002. The multivariate dataset included six yield-and twenty-two quality-related parameters which were subjected to principal component analysis and subsequently to cluster analysis. The 49 genotypes were differentiated into six groups. Two groups which included almost exclusively Central and Eastern European cultivars and breeding lines, respectively, turned out to be best adapted to the prevalent conditions. These genotypes revealed high agronomic and high quality performances, and could, therefore, serve as valuable wheat genetic resources for the buildup of a local winter wheat breeding programme in the future.
23785228|Septoria glume blotch of triticale induced by Leptosphaeria nodorum E. Mller is the major foliar disease in Tras-os-Montes (NE Portugal) and can cause considerable damage under the right weather and crop conditions. Because of erratic occurrence of the disease, epidemics of glume blotch were artificially created by spraying spores of the pathogen. Single affected tillers of hexaploid triticale cv. Corgo and unaffected neighbours were tagged and the severity of the disease recorded at early milk stage. Tagged tillers were recovered and grain weight and number of grains per ear were processed. Considering the number of grains and severity, the percentage of yield variability being explained by septoria was improved to 67.2% of the variation. Previous analysis taking into account severity explained only 4.6% of the variation.
23788060|In the tropics, maize (Zea mays L.) is often grown under low N conditions. Information on the respective role of N uptake and partitioning at anthesis in determining grain yield under low N is scarce. Senescence traits have been proposed as secondary traits to select for low N tolerance, but the stability of their association with yield under different environmental conditions has been rarely described. In the present study we analyzed the associations between grain yield, N uptake and partitioning at anthesis, dry matter matter partitioning, and senescence traits during two seaons in QPM (quality protein maize) hybrids. Association between grain yield and N uptake at anthesis, when found, was mainly explained by a close relationship between grain yield and above-ground biomass. No relationship was found between grain yield and N partitioning at anthesis. In both seasons grain yield was significantly positively associated with ear to above-ground biomass and ear to tassel weight ratios. The magnitude of the correlation between grain yield and senescence traits highly depended on climatic conditions.
90002314|A novel HMW-GS of Dx5** with slightly faster migration rate than that of Dx5, was found in a Tibet bread wheat landrace using SDS-PAGE. Moreover, Dx5** is the subunit with the fastest migration rate in
23778594|The test weight of triticale (X Triticosecale Wittmack) seed may affect crop stand and yield. Within a genotype, seed that has a higher test weight or is larger will produce more vigorous seedlings and, sometimes higher yields. Effects of four seed test weights, heavy (69.0 kg/hl) medium (59.5 kg/hl), light (49.4 kg/hl) and check (61.0 kg/hl) classes of triticale cultivar '6TA 131' were studied on various seedling and plant characteristics for two years. Heavier seeds were superior in total germination, greenhouse emergence and produced significantly higher seedling dry weight and field stand. Plants from heavier seeds showed significantly increased kernel/spike and grain yield. No significant differences were observed in plant height, number of tillers or kernel weights obtained from plants of different seed weight classes. Percent germination, seedling dry weight, field stand, grain/spike and grain yield was significantly related to test weight of seed planted.
23785408|The content of trichothecenes and zearalenone in stalks, leaves, cobs and kernels of maize plants affected by Gibberella stalk rot was examined shortly after the appearance of the first symptoms of stalk rot in September and at harvest time (end of October). The main objective was to prove whether and to what extent stalk fusariosis increases the occurrence of ear rot. Though high concentrations of trichothecenes and zearalenone could be found in different parts of the maize plants already on the first sample day no spreading of Fusarium and toxin contamination to the kernels could generally be observed till harvest of grain-maize.
23782764|Murashige and Skoog (MS), Nitsch's (N), Gamborg's B5 (B5), Heller's (H), and White's (W) media were evaluated for the ability to support growth of filtered cells containing nurse clumps of 'Ward' wheat. The cell suspensions were subcultured every 7 days over a period of 5 weeks. The greatest increase in cell number (CN) and in clump fresh weight (CFW) was observed using MS and N salts. The culture media with a larger proportion of ammonium favored both increase in CN and final fresh weight of clumps. Use of picloram at 0.25 and 0.5 mg 11 levels resulted in a lesser rate of CN increase but at 1.0 mg 11 it was equivalent to 1.5 and 3.0 mg 1 2,4-D. An increase in cell volume was observed with an increase in picloram concentration. Picloram also promoted clump dry weight (CDW) increases particularly at the 0.5 mg 1 1. Suspension cultures established from filtered cells and no clumps declined after continuous subculturing regardless of the culture salt and auxin formulation of the media.
90003107|N fertilization has a considerable effect on the quantity and quality of canola
23789803|Lanzou Alkaline Stretched Noodles (LASN) was a traditional staple food in northwest China for nearly 90 years. LASN specialty wheat breeding has become an important target since 1990s. In order to discover the LASN specialty wheat quality requirement for allelic variations at Glu-3 of northwest China spring wheats. Two northwest China spring wheat cultivars and 39 elite F6 breeding lines were adopted to determine the low-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (LMW-GS) composition by one step one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) basing on the protocol of Singh et al. (1991). The results showed that Glu-A3d and Glu-B3g were correlated to high protein content, high volume of SDS-sediment and super dough strength (W). While Glu-A3a was bad to dry gluten content and SDS-sediment as well as dough properties such as dough strength (W) and dough tenacity (P). Moreover, Glu-B3j has not significant influence on flour quality, but it has the negative effect on dough strength (W) and dough extensibility (L). As for LASN quality, Glu-A3d and Glu-B3g were beneficial alleles and Glu-A3a was unbeneficial alleles for LASN quality.
23790368|A study was undertaken at the Directorate of Wheat Research experimental station, Karnal, India, to evaluate the effect of nitrogen (30, 60 and 90 kg/ha) and irrigation (one, two and three) on yield and grain quality traits of two and six row type malt barley genotypes. The mean grain yield significantly increased from 41.9 to 45.8 q/ha with increase in nitrogen dose from 30 to 90 kg/ha and 41.8 to 45.9 q/ha with increase in irrigations from one to three. The two and six row barleys had almost similar yield potential at higher nitrogen application and irrigation frequency but the six-row type had advantage at lower nitrogen and irrigation. Varietal effects were significant for all the traits, while N significantly affected only grain yield, spikes per unit area, 1000-grain weight and husk content. Irrigation effects were significant for bulk density, grain yield, spikes per unit area, and grains per spike. Traits like grain bulk density, proportion of bold and thin grains and husk content are mainly affected by variety and less affected by management practices.
90003281|The severity of seedling infection caused by
23781548|Intergeneric hybrids and barley haploids were obtained by crossing different varieties of H.vulgare(2n=14;28) and rye S.cereale (2n=14;28). Crosses between wild barley grasses H.geniculatum (2n=28) and H.jubatum (2n=28) and 3. species of rye S.cereale (2n=14;28); S.ancestrale (2n=14); S.kuprijanovii (2n=14) yielded intergeneric hybrids.only. Viable hybrids were obtained by pollination of barley H.vulgare (2n=14) with wheat T.aestivum and T.timopheevi. The hybrid embryos were grown on immature H.vulgare endosperm and on nutritive media.
23784243|This research was carried out to determine the adaptation ability of twenty-two hybrid corn varieties which were grown in Tekirda and Edirne locations in 1989, 1990, 1991 seasons. According to the results of variance analysis; genotype x environment, genotype x year and genotype x environment x year interactions were statistically significant. When stability analysis are considered, PX-79 and P-3184 showed specific adaptation ability for favourable environments while TTM-813 genotype was stable for unsuitable environments. Also, C-949, G-4522, G-4730 and TM-826 were found stable for all environments of this region. On the other hand, it was determined that middle early and late varieties were suitable for Thrace Region. The latest and earliest varieties were not found suitable for this region.
23785273|The aim of the present study was the gas and liquid chromatography detection of residues of flusilazole, carbendazime, tebuconazole and triadimefon-based fungicides in flour and bran produced from the grain of four varieties of wheat treated with two fungicides. When the fungicide Alert was applied in the 1-2-node stages of stem development, flusilazole could be detected in the flour of two wheat varieties. In the bran, no flusilazole residues were detected in any of the varieties. When treatment was carried out in a later phenophase (after development of the flag leaf and at the beginning of heading) no flusilazole residue was detected in the flour of any wheat variety. The active substance of the fungicide Folicur Bt EC 225 (tebuconazole) was detected in the flour of only one wheat variety and in the bran of three varieties when the fungicide treatment was applied in the 1-2-node stages of stem development. When the fungicide treatment was carried out after the development of the flag leaf, at the beginning of heading, no tebuconazole residue was detected in the flour or the bran. The other active substance of Alert is carbendazime, and the other active substance of Folicur Bt EC 225 is triadimefon: their residues were not detected in the flour and bran.
23786215|Ae. biuncialis was crossed as male parent with the winter wheat line 'Martonvsri 9 kr1' and F1 hybrids were produced. They were treated with colchicine and the amphiploid plants obtained were backcrossed with wheat. Ten monosomic chromosome additions (2n=43) and three double monosomic chromosome additions (2n=44) were found in the BC3F1 and BC2F2 generations. By selfing these plants, disomic chromosome addition plants could be recovered in the next generation. The differences in the hybridization patterns of the two parents observed after FISH with the repetitive probe pSc119 will enable us to further identify the alien chromosomes added to wheat.
23787258|The quantity and distribution of proteins in sweet maize is not well known. Changes in protein levels in tissues can affect physiological processes in maturing plants. This study was conducted to determine how protein levels change in juvenile to the physiologically mature tissues in near isogenic lines of a shrunken2 sweet maize that is susceptible or resistant to Puccinia maydis, the rust disease causal organism. Stalk, leaf, tassel, shank, and ear tissues were separated at the mid-whorl (V10), emerging tassel (VN), expanded tassel (VT), silking (R1), fresh-market maturity (R3), and physiologically mature (R6) stages, and extracted to determine protein levels. Pearson Product Moment correlations were conducted to determine if protein levels in the tissues, at developmental stages, were related. Total protein was similar for susceptible and resistant plants. Kernels had the most protein, immature ears the least, and the other tissues were intermediate. Protein levels for the whole plant was similar through R1, and increased at R3, and again at R6. Correlation patterns were different for susceptible and resistant plants. Protein levels in tissues at earlier developmental stages appear to be related to protein levels in tissues at later stages.
23786055|Physical adsorption of nitrogen at low temperature (79 K) was employed to estimate the leaf area exposed to the intercellular air space (mesophyll surface area) per fresh unit mass of the flag leaf of six wheat cultivars (Triticum aestivum L.) at anthesis. The employed technique was able to detect differences among cultivars. Mesophyll surface area of flag leaves for wheat ranged from 3.24 to 8.92 m2 g1 and was higher than those previously published for Ligustrum lucidum Aiton using the same technique. Differences between means were attributed to the contrasting mesophyll anatomy of these species. The relationship between mesophyll surface area and external surface area (Smes/S) ranged from 300 to 700. Such high ratios were attributed to the ultrafine roughness of the mesophyll cells wall. Besides, photosynthetic rate of the flag leaf of the six cultivars was also measured; the means ranged from 15.1 to 24.4 mol m2 s1. No linear correlation between mesophyll surface area, expressed either on a mass or on an external surface basis, and photosynthetic rate of the flag leaf could be established.
90003440|Human-induced mechanical abiotic stresses can strongly modify soil hydraulic properties determining soil heat-, mass and water regimes and their spatial distribution. The objective of our study was to evaluate the effect of different soil management systems on spatial pattern of soil properties for supporting the development of site-specific, low-input precision agricultural methods. Six different soil management systems from a long-term tillage experiment were involved in the study. Soil sampling, analyses and in situ measurements were performed using geoelectrical probes. We concluded that geoelectrical probes provided data reflecting the effect of both, mechanical soil disturbance and catch crop application on soil properties.
23786043|The AmAmRR wheatrye amphitetraploids obtained in the result of crossing diploid wheat T.monococcum with rye are self-sterile but their gametes, both female and male, are functional. Efforts were undertaken to cross such forms with hexaploid triticale with the aim to study frequency of the substitution of chromosomes from genome B to primary allotetraploid genotypes and, further, in doing so, to ascertain possibilities of creation of secondary AARR forms with aestivum cytoplasm. The obtained results revealed a complete absence of chromosome transfer from genome B to the developing forms with secondary tetraploidy despite a well known reduced conjugation capability of some diploid wheat chromosomes (4Am, 5Am, 6Am) with the A genome of wheat. Furthermore, the results were independent of the direction of the performed separating selection (up to F8 generation) for ear fertility and identical with those obtained when such selection was not carried out. The crossing of T.monococcum/S.cereale amphiploids with triticale turned out to be an effective method of the production of secondary AARR forms as well as of introduction of a new genetic variation into this group of allotetraploids.
23787071|Irrigation-induced salinity is a major constraint to crop production in many countries. K+/Na+ discrimination is a trait which enhances salinity tolerance in bread wheat compared to durum wheat, and is present in the wheat ancestor Aegilops tauschii. An experiment is described to assess K+/Na+ discrimination, and other traits, in a number of synthetic hexaploid wheat genotypes, produced by crossing Ae. tauschii with durum wheat. The durum parents of the synthetics were also used in the experiment, along with the CIMMYT test set of salt tolerant entries, and some synthetic hexaploid-based drought-tolerant germplasm. K+/Na+ ratios were lower in the durum parents than in the elite synthetics, confirming that the trait was present in the synthetics, and demonstrating its successful transfer from Ae. tauschii to the synthetic hexaploid wheat (2n=6x=42, AABBDD). The 14 best-performing synthetics had similar K+/Na+ ratios to the tolerant check S24. There were highly significant correlations between K+/Na+ discrimination and fresh weight within the durum parents, the elites, and the CIMMYT set. Backcrosses of some elite synthetics with the drought-susceptible hexaploid Opata failed to show the same level of discrimination as Opata. The potential of two elite synthetics which were also tolerant to waterlogging, and one tolerant to multiple biotic stresses, for use in breeding programmes for stressed conditions was noted.
23789858|It has been proved that because of the different past of the parcels regarding their soil, agronomical and technological parameters, weed sampling results may not be generalised. Therefore it is necessary to study those solutions how to determine on an acceptable confidence level a parcel's weed infestation with optimised sampling techniques. For studying the question we have delimited on wheat stubble a total sample area of 3654 metres (using it as reference) and divided it into 22 cells giving a total of 486 sample cells. Then we surveyed the weed infestation and GPS recorded the location of each cell. We have analysed the weed infestation data with mathematical and statistical methods comparing the results of cells with each other and with the total sample area. We found that in several cases of different sample cells weed infestation displayed a diverse picture. This way sampling of weeds is extremely difficult. We found close relation between relative frequency of weeds and sampling accuracy. Therefore sampling is reliable only for surveying the frequent weeds in a parcel, while more rarely found weeds (e.g. spots of perennials) are to be scouted only by means of going over the parcel and GPS recording them. Otherwise, in the case of a traditional sampling process, the number of sampling cells required for acceptable reliability is unnecessarily high. Consequently, it is necessary to further study the economic and cost efficiency aspects of the needed weed sample density from the point of view of reasonable sample density, accuracy and optimal yield.
90003432|The UV-radiation is especially high in the flowering period of the maize, in June, July and August. It can be considered as a very significant abiotic effect from the point of view of the longevity of pollens. The big amount of the vital pollens is the precondition of the suitable quantity and quality of the produced seeds. Our researches were carried out in the years 2003-2005 in Martonvsr, in the Agricultural Research Institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In the course of our laboratory surveys we have experienced that the viability of pollen of the six surveyed parental lines decreased heavily owing to UV-radiation. But the measure of this is highly dependant on the crop-year effect, furthermore the weather sensitivity of the parental lines was very different.
23782807|Genetic analysis of a diallel series of crosses, involving 5 cultivars of winter wheat, is described. The combining ability analysis showed that the variances of general combining ability (GCA) are highly significant in F1 and F2 and that the specific combining ability variances (SCA) are significant only in F1 for productive tiller number per plant. The best general combiner for the investigated character was the cultivar Sava, which had also the highest mean value in this experiment.
90002759|In this trial and paper we investigated the N balance, N uptake of total biomass (grain and straw) and some indices of N use, N harvest index %, N use efficiency (NUE), agronomic efficiency (AE), apparent recovery efficiency (AREN). The results and calculations based on facts (laboratory works).
23789894|The utilization of allelopathic plants has been receiving worldwide attention because it could reduce application of herbicides. Buckwheat is one of those plants with a high allelopathic potential. The genetic variability of allelopathic potential has been described in, e.g. rice, lucerne and wheat. The aim of the present work was to evaluate the influence of varieties on the allelopathic potential of common buckwheat. Three varieties of common buckwheat of different origins were tested. Varietal differences were evaluated through biotests with aqueous extracts of both fresh and dried plant parts of buckwheat (leaves, stems, roots). Varietal differences in allelopathic potential of common buckwheat were found in extracts from all plant parts. The strength of the allelopathic potential was dependent upon treatment (fresh or dried material) and conditions within the given year. Rutin, the main flavonoid of buckwheat, probably plays an important function in the allelopathic potential of buckwheat biomass and it is the possible reason of varietal differences.
23786921|Three Syrian registered cultivars of durum wheat (Cham 1, 3 and 5) were grown in controlled environments under ambient (400 ppmv) and elevated (1000 ppmv) CO2 at two levels of water availability (well irrigated and water stressed). All cultivars responded in a similar manner to both the CO2 and the water stress. Carbon dioxide elevation raised biomass production at ear emergence by approximately 62% in well irrigated treatments. Water stress severely reduced biomass production (by 38%) but elevated CO2 was able to induce a significant yield response in water stressed treatments. Growth analysis demonstrated that biomass improvements were a result of improved tillering and denser leaves and stems rather than LAI which was unaffected by CO2 but depressed by water stress. Nitrogen content of leaves were unaffected by elevated CO2 but ear and stem N% was significantly improved in contrast to previous reports. These results indicate that higher atmospheric levels of CO2 would give a benefit in durum wheat even in situations where crops are severely water stressed.
23790050|The work was aimed at investigating short-term metabolic changes caused by S-methylmethionine (SMM) and at clarifying the gene expression background of these changes in order to gain a better understanding of the protective effect of SMM against stress. When examining the expression of genes coding for the enzymes responsible for the biosynthesis of polyamines, which play an important role in responses to low temperature stress, and that of the C-repeat binding transcription factor (CBF1) gene, it was found that both SMM and cold treatment increased the expression of genes responsible for the polyamine synthesis pathway starting from arginine. It caused only a slight increase when applied alone, but when SMM pre-treatment was followed by cold stress, it resulted in a considerable extent of up-regulation. SMM caused a similar increase in the expression of CBF1. The changes in the expression of genes responsible for the polyamine synthesis were clearly reflected in changes in the putrescine and agmatine contents, while the greater increase in the spermidine content was indicative of the role of SMM as a direct precursor in spermidine biosynthesis. The results demonstrated that, in addition to its direct effect on the sulphur metabolism and on polyamine biosynthesis, the protective effect of exogenous SMM was chiefly manifested in its influence on the expression of genes responsible for the biosynthesis of the polyamines important for stress responses and on the CBF1 transcription factor gene that acts as a regulator in cold stress.
23788064|The powdery mildew resistance gene Pm2 is effective in China. Bulked segregant analysis (BSA) was used to search for microsatellite markers linked to Pm2. Twenty-one microsatellite primer pairs located on chromosome 5DS were screened; three polymorphic loci Xcfd81-5DS, Xgwm190-5DS, and Xcfd18-5DS were linked to Pm2 using an F2 population from Chinese Spring x CI14118 (with Pm2 ) consisting of 814 individuals. The genetic distances between Pm2 and the three markers were: 2.0cM, 34.2cM and 44.2cM, respectively. Microsatellite marker Xcfd81-5DS could be used in marker assisted selection for Pm2 provided any chosen Pm2 source also carries the relevant marker.
23789294|Implementation of marker assisted selection (MAS) in conventional breeding programs could allow assessment of the genetic potential of specific genotypes prior to their phenotypic evaluation. Furthermore, it could identify important trait alleles or marker-trait associations for further determination of a precise position for the loci of interest. Potential uses of microsatellite markers in molecular evaluation of bread-making quality was tested in a sample of 69 wheat genotypes that were genotyped with 3 microsatellites linked to previously mapped QTLs for loaf volume and Hagberg falling number on chromosome 3A. A total of 19 alleles were found, with an average of 6.33 alleles per loci, and average PIC value of 0.40. Specific SSR alleles were tested for association with bread-making related parameters. The association study approach, which uses statistical analysis of marker and phenotypic data, showed significant association of a specific allele at the GWM674 locus with Hagberg falling number in wheat.
23783000|Nine wheat lines from the 1983 Nebraska High Protein-High Lysine (HP-HL) nursery grown at Yuma, AZ were determined to have grain protein levels significantly higher than the check variety 'Lindon'. Commercial wheat cultivars, such as the nursery checks 'TAM W-105' and 'Newton', commonly have flour protein levels 2 to 4.5% lower than bran protein levels. Six lines in the HP-HL nursery were shown to accumulate significantly higher concentrations of protein in endosperm than in bran. The lines, derived from the high-protein parents 'Atlas 66' and 'Nap Hal', should be useful breeding sources of genes for high-protein endosperm in the future development of high-protein cultivars. Variation in mineral element concentrations of grain, flour, and bran was highly significant and relatively wide among the HP-HL lines. Concentrations of several minerals were found to be highly correlated with protein content of grain. Increases in grain protein content through breeding can be expected to lead to elevated mineral concentrations as well. Such increases in mineral concentrations should be nutritionally advantageous.
23789904|In Hungary rice (Oryza sativa L.) is cultivated under flooded conditions. Direct seeding into the soil is applied usually. The optimal sowing date is a key factor necessary to the success of this annual crop because of the relatively short growing season. The main objective of this research was to: (1) analyse duration of period from sowing to emergence at different temperature values, (2) determine base temperature of this phenophase and (3) establish a thermal time model for rice emergence. To do this, growth chamber experiments with 5 Hungarian cultivars were conducted to determine the time to median emergence (E50) at constant temperature of 14 to 34 C in 2 C steps. The sowing depth was 2 cm, and moisture was not a limiting factor. It was found that the critical thermal zone, which is of highest practical importance, is between 14 and 16 C. At these values the E50 is 23.9 and 13.4 days, respectively, showing a border between unfavourable and acceptable conditions. In the temperature interval between 26 and 34 C the time needed for emergence was only 3.3 to 4.4 days. Variety differences were also detected. Base temperature was found between 9.8 and 10.9 C. The thermal time requirements of 4 cultivars varied between 69 and 73 C day. Data of field experiment with 9 sowing dates and a pot experiment with 3 sowings confirmed that our thermal time model can successfully simulate the emergence of rice.
23783956|Immature embryos of Eleusine coracana were cultured on MS medium supplemented with 1.0 and 2.0 mg/l of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or Picloram (PIC) alone and in combination with Kinetin (Kn). Embryos cultured on 2,4-D supplemented medium developed callus having somatic embryoids and shoot buds. PIC induced proliferation of apical/axial buds on the germinating cultured embryos. Plant regeneration was observed when calli/explants were transferred on growth hormone free MS medium.
23783901|A large durum wheat germplasm collection was evaluated for salinity tolerance at a naturally salt-affected site in northern Syria. Given the unreplicated experimental design (modified augmented design) adopted to cope with the size of the trial and limited seed available, a study was conducted on several replications of the control cultivar 'Haurani' used throughout the field, to assess the effects of soil heterogeneity on the genotypic response to the stress. The results confirmed previous observations on the great variation of salt content in naturally salinized field sites, and indicated that the variation of response to the stress was largely due to such soil variation. Implications of use of naturally saline sites on screening germplasm for stress tolerance are discussed.
23783834|Wild lines and cultivars of barley (Hordeum vulgare, L. cvs. Kaya, Quantum, Tokak, Yeril and Cumhuriyet) and their hybrids were characterized by random amplified polymorphic DNA assay. DNA's isolated from parents and F1 hybrids were amplified using ten base long primers by a polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Hybrids giving selective banding patterns from both the cultivars and wild parents were taken as real hybrids. This technique is convenient for plant breeders since it is rapid, sensitive and inexpensive.
23783071|Intergeneric hybrids were produced using Triticum aestivum L. cv. Chinese Spring and its homoeologous pairing mutant (ph1b) as female parents, pollinated with Aegilops ovata, Ae. variabilis, and Ae. cylindrica. Ae. ovata produced higher seed set with the ph1b mutant than with normal C. Spring (40% vs 37%). Ae. variabilis gave low seed set with the ph1b mutant compared to normal C. Spring (75% vs 89%). Ae. cylindrica produced a significantly lower number of seeds after hybridization with C. Spring and the ph1b mutant compared to Ae. ovata and Ae. variabilis. High meiotic chromosome pairing was observed at metaphase-I of all hybrids involving the ph1b mutant. Backcrossing was attempted with five hexaploid wheats. F1 hybrids of the ph1b mutant and Ae. ovata produced 3.85% and 2.5% BC1 seeds upon backcrossing with LU-26 and C. Spring, respectively, whereas in hybrids of ph1b mutant  Ae. variabilis, 2.35% BC1 seeds were produced with Lu-26, 2.63% with Barani-83 and 1.05% with Ae. cylindrica.
23784256|Usefulness of single gene leaf rust resistant lines in Thatcher and Prelude backgrounds and cultivars Transec (Lr25), Federation (+Lr26) and Gatcher (Lr27+Lr31) for genetic studies in India was studied against a highly avirulent leaf rust culture at three different temperatures. Lines with the genes Lr2c, Lr12, Lr14b, Lr17, Lr18, Lr21, Lr22a, and Lr30 in Thatcher background and cultivar Thatcher (Lr22b) gave infection types (IT's) varying from; to 33+ at 15C, 20C and 25C. It is therefore, suggested that In India, the single gene lines in Thatcher and Prelude backgrounds should be used for genetic studies only after evaluating their temperature sensitivity against specific leaf rust cultures.
23782886|A spring wheat (c.v. "Sappo") was grown on a sandy loam soil in lysimeters in the field. The lysimeters were automatically protected from rain by a mobile glass roof. Each drought treatment consisted of a single period without irrigation. Growth rate of grains were higher for the treatments with water stress during the grain filling stage compared to the non stressed treatment. The grains continued to grow at the same rate in spite of increasing water stress untill the soil water content reached the permanent wilting capacity, then the growth stopped. For the irrigated treatment, however, the grainfilling period was one week longer than for the drought treatments, which resulted in a higher grain yield.
90002723|Biological activity and organic matter content of soil can be improved by the application of organic fertilizers. As the EU legislation restricts the time and doses of N added with stable manure, the need and possibility have arisen to apply industrially processed organic fertilizers. For this reason, investigations were carried out at the trial field in Zagreb with the aim to determine the effects of applying pelleted organic-biological fertilizer Bio Univerzal upon broccoli and lettuce yield components. In the spring-summer period, all broccoli cultivars grown on plots on which organic fertilizer was applied produced higher mass and yield of marketable top inflorescences compared to plots fertilized with mineral fertilizer only. Depending on the broccoli cultivar, organic fertilizer application led to increase of marketable top inflorescence mass by 3 to 12%, resulting in marketable yield increase from 3 to 22%. Organic fertilizer application in the summer-autumn lettuce growing period resulted in a 7 to 12% increase of marketable rosette mass and yield of all four cultivars studied.
23785318|Thirty-six cultivars described as resistant or partially resistant by various authors were tested for reaction to a mixture of Tilletia tritici (race T-1) and Tilletia laevis (race L-5). No infection was found in cvs. Amigo, Crest, Franklin, Stava and Tjelvar, low infection (0,9 - 9,1 %) in Cardon, Wasatch, Hildebrands Weissweizen B, Shekhurdinovka, Nebred and Dobrovick pesvka. In other trials separate inoculation with T. tritici and T. laevis was carried out. None of the cultivars registered at present in the Czech Republic and of the advanced lines in the State Varietal Trial was resistant to Tilletia laevis (race L-5); only advanced line HE-3625 was resistant to T. tritici (race T-1). None of the foreign cultivars tested in the State Varietal Trial was resistant to T. laevis (race L-5); only cvs. Bussard and Euris showed less than 5 % of infection with T. tritici (race T-1). The following were resistant to both inocula: lines/cvs. with resistance genes Bt3, Bt4, Bt5, Bt6, Bt8, Bt9, Bt10, Bt11, Bt12, Bt13 and the sources of resistance PI 560795 SEL.BCO, PI 560841 SEL. WCO, PI 560 841 SEL.BCL. Breeding for resistance to bunt is discussed.
90003139|Research objective was to examine the effect of nitrogen (N) application (0-N
23787187|The role of oats in the human nutrition mainly depends on the contribution both of good biological value proteins and dietary fibre high level, without disregarding other important components as unsaturated lipids. In this study, included in a more large research planned to evaluate sources of variation in oat grain nutritional components by testing various agronomical conditions and different genotypes, five cultivars of oats (naked and husked) were grown in low input systems in two seeding seasons and the dietary fibre content (TDF and -glucan) was monitored. The statistical analysis revealed significant differences among the cultivars and the growth conditions, in particular the use of normal chemical control of weed seemed favour the dietary fibre accumulation. No significant effects of seeding season were evidenced even if significant genotype x seeding season interactions for all examined parameters were found.
23784197|Analysis of a cross between Hordeum vulgare cv. 'Ruth' and a large-seed high-protein accession of Hordeum spontaneum (line 297) was performed using the Mather-Jinks joint scaling test. Significant additive and dominance effects for seed weight, and an additive effect for endosperm protein concentration was observed. Mean protein per seed was increased significantly in segregating generations, compared to 'Ruth' itself. In the cross 'Ruth' x 48 (a small-seed, extremely high protein accession of H. spontaneum), the additive genetic effect for endosperm protein concentration was found to be dependent on seed weight, and mean protein per seed in segregating generations was lower than in 'Ruth'. Accordingly, line 48 would not be an appropriate choice for use in breeding. Hordein percent in protein showed low heritability in both crosses, but was significantly higher in 297 and 48 than in 'Ruth'. Conclusions are made about implications of the results for choice of parent in plant breeding.
23790029|Vitreousness is an important quality characteristic that affects the yield of semolina during milling of durum wheat. It has been observed that kernel vitreousness seems to be lower when durum is exposed to damp conditions just before harvest. The main objective of this research was to determine the effect of high relative humidity (RH) on kernel vitreousness of ten durum wheat cultivars. Spikes were exposed to 88% RH at room temperature for 1 and 3 days. This resulted in increased spike moisture, kernel moisture and kernel size. Vitreous kernel content (vitreousness) decreased 23.6% after spikes were exposed to high relative humidity for 3 days. Exposure to 88% RH caused the greatest decline in vitreousness with the cultivar 'Ben'.
90003433|Quality in general is the sum of characteristics. In this work factors of complex quality have been examined. The factors, which determine the wheat quality, can be sorted into two groups, the natural factors and the growing factors. The natural factor (rainfall, temperature, air) determines the varieties and the growing technology. The growing factor (variety, seed, sowing-time, nutrients etc.) determines the profit.
90003059|During a three year monitoring (2005  2007) of the scale insects on grapes, mass outbreaks of
23787255|Ten varieties of winter spelt wheat Triticum spelta L. (Ostro, Altgold, KR 489-11-15, Oberkulmer, Ostroschwarzer, Lueg, H9227, H9228, Rouquin, Hercule) and winter common wheat Triticum aestivum L. variety Samara were cultivated in esk Budjovice under the low input conditions during years 1996 1998. A mixed crop was cultivated in the preceding year and no nitrogen fertilisation was applied after the foregoing crop harvest. Chemical composition was analysed in the wheat and spelt grains - content of total nitrogenous compounds was determined using Kjeldahl method and amino acid contents were determined using an analyser AAA-339. Mean content of nitrogenous compounds in spelt grains was for about 0.5 % higher than in common wheat grain and this difference was not statistically significant. Old Swiss varieties Ostro (12.52 %) and Oberkulmer (12.60 %), and also new breeding material KR 489-11-15 (13.72 %) had a little higher content of nitrogenous compounds. KR 489-11-15 had also higher content of lysine (4.21 g/kg). There was found the positive correlation between nitrogenous compounds and lysine contents. Within essential amino acids, there were observed significantly increased contents of lysine and threonine among varieties KR 489-11-15. Oberkulmer and Rouquin. From the viewpoint of nutritional value (content of essential amino acids), it would be suitable to focus on the new breeding material KR 489-11-15.
23784039|Laboratory and field test data are presented to illustrate the effectiveness of "MG" safener derivatives against vernolate injury to corn plants, and to compare their safener activity with that of some marketed safeners of dichloroacetamide type. MG-191 proved to be most active while other "MG" compounds showed safener activity as good as or slightly better than that of dichloroacetamides.
23782976|In this study six parameter model was used to work out the genetic architecture of migration coefficient in durum wheat involving two crosses namely HD 4502  Cocorit 71 and Raj 91  Cormorent under three environments. In each cross under all the three environments the F1 mean values higher than mid parental values indicated the presence of heterosis. The degree of heterosis was not proportional to the degree of inbreeding depression in F2 which suggested the major role of additive gene effects in the expression of this trait. Analysis of gene effects also showed the predominant role of additive genes in both the crosses for this trait under all the three environments. High heritability alongwith high genetic advance were also observed in both the crosses under all the environments. For the improvement in productivity of durum wheat, suggestion has been made to exert selection pressure on migration coefficient in early segregating generations.
23782756|Inheritance of the wheat (Triticum aestivum) gene Lr22a for adult-plant resistance to leaf rust (Puccinia recondita f.sp. tritici) was studied in the greenhouse and in the field. Evaluation of the F1, F2 and F3 generations, derived from the crosses between line RL6044 (Lr22a) and the spring wheat cultivars Zaragoza and SST33, indicated that Lr22a was inherited as a partially recessive, single gene. This finding differs from previous genetic studies in which the gene acted partially dominant. Knowledge of the mode of inheritance of Lr22a should facilitate efficient management of the gene in breeding programs.
23781344|Excised anthers of rice cv. Basmati-370 subjected to quick freezing in liquid nitrogen (196C) have been revived, and induced to form callus, undergo androgenesis, and develop into haploid plantlets.
90003197|The gene bank maintained in Martonvsr contains populations of several old Hungarian wheat varieties. Earlier observations indicated that the variety Bnkti 1201 had outstanding resistance to FHB in experiments artificially inoculated with Fusarium species. Inoculation tests were made on the FHB resistance of Hungarian wheat varieties bred prior to 1960. Averaged over four years, the field spike infection of these wheat varieties and of lines derived from them ranged from 10.2 to 62.5%, with infection rates below 20% for 11 lines and the level of infection of 23 lines was statistically at par with that of the resistant control.
23784192|Wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV) is the most destructive wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) disease in western Kansas. Various levels of resistance to WSMV are found in wheat. Our objective was to develop a reliable field screening procedure that would identify the level of resistance in large numbers of breeding lines. WSMV and it's vector, the wheat curl mite (Eriophyes tulipae Keifer), were allowed to increase in strips of wheat planted in late August or early September. Experimental lines were planted in short rows between the strips of early planted wheat in December or January. The early planted wheat was killed with a V-blade in early March, which forced the mited to leave and infest the recently emerged winter planting. This procedure has resulted in nearly 100% infection of susceptible lines in tests from 1988 to 1990. Moderate and high levels of resistance were identified. This procedure takes advantage of larger mite populations in the spring as compared to the fall, and because plants are still small when infected, severe WSMV symptoms develop.
90002714|The autotrophic (root and rhizomicrobial) and heterotrophic (basal) components of soil respiration were determined in the carbon balance study on a dry sandy grassland with the main objectives of determining the ratio of these components and the effect of root water content on root respiration. The respiration of root and rhizomicrobial component was higher than basal respiration in most of the growing period, the ratio increased from 0.24 to 3.39 following the temperature and vegetations activity. Root respiration gave a very steep gradient response to changes in soil water content (SWC) range, characteristic under droughts, showing optimum response in SWC range, seldom occurring in the field. On the other hand, roots can access soil water in deeper layers during dry periods, therefore the strong dependence of root respiration on root water content could explain significant part of variations in respiration by drougth stressed ecosystems.
23784200|The purpose of the study was to comapre the yield and quality response of four wheat types, representative of the range of wheat types grown in Ontario, Canada, to the rate of nitrogen (N) fertilization under an intensive cereal management system. Seven independent trials were conducted over a two year period under a variety of soil, previous crop, and climatic conditions. Each trial used a split-plot arrangement of treatments, replicated four times in a randomized complete block design. Main plots were one of four wheat types: soft white winter (SWW), hard red winter (HRW), and hard red spring of European (HRS-E) or North American (HRS-N) breeding. Subplots received one of six rates of N fertilization: 40, 80, 120, 160, 200 and 240 kg N ha-1 for the winter wheats and 40, 80, 100, 120, 160 and 220 kg N ha-1 for the spring wheats. The winter wheats exhibited a strong response to N fertilization whereas the spring wheats did not. Grain yield was approximately 25% higher for the SWW than for the HRW wheat, primarily due to increased tillering of the SWW wheat. For all wheat types, N fertilization at a level which produces maximum economic grain yield was inconsistent with optimum wheat quality in terms of crude protein concentration.
23777757|A hexaploid F10 line from the cross between C.I. 7232, a derived tetraploid (2n = 28) and Clarion, a hexaploid variety (2n = 42) had dark colored lemma and resistance to leaf rust. It was found in the test in F11 and F12 that the above mentioned F10 line had an additional alien chromosome (21 + 1A). The alien chromosome came from C.I. 7232 and carried genes for dark lemma color (D) and resistance (R) to leaf rust. It is suggested that this line can be useful in a program of irradiation induced gene transfer.
23786895|It can be concluded that, if the climatic conditions are favourable, snow mould is able to infect cereals in Hungary. The extent of the epidemic depends not only on the resistance of the varieties and the virulence of the pathogen, but also on climatic factors which increase the susceptinility of the plants.
23783650|Five strains of hexaploid triticale and five cultivars of hexaploid wheat were taken to study germination, pollen fertility, crossability, hybrid seed germination, pollen fertility of F1 and percentage reversion to parental phenotype in early segregating generations of triticale and wheat crosses. Small seeds showed the highest and the large seeds the lowest emergence capacity. Pollen sterility was more in triticales. When triticale was used as the female parent in crosses with wheat, seed set was low but germination of this seed was good, whereas in the reciprocal crosses, though seed set was high but it did not germinate at all. Useful transgressive segregants were observed in B1 (F1  triticale), B2 (F1  wheat) and F2 generations.
23786843|The resistance of Chinese germplasm to F. graminearum is well recognized but there is little information about how spring wheat lines incorporating this resistance react to the other Fusarium species Five spring wheat genotypes incorporating resistance from Sumai3 to F. graminearum were inoculated with seven Fusarium species. On the susceptible check, F. graminearum and F. culmorum caused the most blight, most damaged kernels, greatest yield reduction, and highest DON level. F. equiseti and F. acuminatum caused no disease, while F. poae, F. avenaceum, and F. sporotrichiodes, were intermediate. On the resistant genotypes, F. graminearum and F. culmorum caused low levels of blight, kernel damage, yield reduction and DON; these genotypes showed very little disease from the other Fusarium species. Grain from the susceptible check inoculated with F. sporotrichioides contained other trichothecenes, but that from the resistant lines did not.
23789668|Soybean were grown under field conditions on chernozem soil for four growing seasons (from 2002 to 2005). Three treatment of soil tillage were applied as follows: a) conventional tillage, b) reduced tillage (diskharrowing instead of ploughing) and c) no-till (zero-tillage). In general, the characteristics of growing season (the factor year) were more influncing factor of soybean nutritional status (aerial part in stage of full-developed pods) in comparison with the soil tillage. In our study, low influences of applied soil tillage treatments on nutritional status of soybean were found because significant differences on soybean composition were found only for four (Cu, Cr, Sr and Ba) from total 20 analysed elements. For example, conventional tillage resulted by the higher plant Cu (by 15% and 18% in comparison with DH and NT, respectively), and the lower plant Sr (by 12% and 16%, respectively) and Ba (by 26% and 23%, respectively), while under DH conditions by 22% lower plant Cr was found. Main nutrient status (P. K, Ca, Mg, S....) were independent on soil tillage. For this reason, usual fertilization practice is recommended for possible application of soil tillage reduction under conditions of calcareous chernozem.
23786275|The development of stem rust epidemic was studied in a test over two years by the modified Center-pivot method in 17 winter wheat genotypes of differing resistance. The spreading of epidemic depended on the level of the disease measured in cultivars just at the spreader plot. This was stable in the years of observation, only the severity of the disease differed in the two years. Tolerance could be identified at various levels of susceptibility and resistance. Tolerance is a useful trait, being independent from resistance, but can not replace the race specific or other types of resistance. A direct selection for tolerance is not easy, but the selection for not shrivelling grains may result also in tolerant genotypes. Identification of tolerance needs tests over several years.
23790381|Barley-infecting isolates of Wheat dwarf virus (WDV) were collected in the field in the vicinity of the cities Dunakiliti, Heves and Sifok, in Hungary. Viral genomic DNA was amplified by the rolling circle amplification technique, digested with HindIII, cloned into pBSK+ plasmid and sequenced. The clones were of the same size and showed above 99% identity to each other. Based on DNA sequences WDV-D01, WDV-H1 and WDV-H07 isolates showed high identity (9499%) to isolates of WDV barley strain and Barley dwarf virus and lower identity to Oat dwarf virus (71% identity) and WDV wheat strains (85% identity).
90002995|land use changes are sources for a series of problems but they can be solutions as well. In a nature conservation area it can reduce and increase biodiversity, however in the Tihany Peninsula nature conservationists try to protect the present natural environment. Human induced landscape changes gained the peninsula the first landscape protection district status of the country. Geological background, microclimatic conditions, given soil heritage, plant cover and land use plays an important role in the life of the peninsula. We wish to give an example how human induced activities might affect the valuable natural environment in a way that threatens the aim of the protection.
23783919|This paper describes the responses of wheat plants, grown at a common mean temperature, to five thermal amplitudes ranging between 0 and 14 C. The temperature regimes were based on a sine curve and had maxima and minima of 19/19, 21/17, 22.5/15.5, 24/14, and 26/12 C. Plants of the contrasting cultivars Sunset, Condor, Rosella and Cappelle Desprez were used in the study after 50 days vernalisation. During the study they were grown under long photoperiod to avoid confounding the responses to vernalisation and photoperiod with those analysed here. Observations were made of the durations of phenophases, final leaf number and rate of leaf appearance. Averaging across temperature regimes, cultivars differed in time to anthesis. Cappelle Desprez was latest, while Sunset and Condor were earliest, but in no case was the duration of the period to anthesis associated with thermal amplitude. When the durations of the developmental phases between sowing and terminal spikelet and terminal spikelet and anthesis were analysed separately, again no evidence was found in any genotype for any systematic change due to thermal amplitude. This lack of effect of amplitude applied even though cultivars differed in the durations of the phases, differed in the relative proportion of the full period to anthesis which was apportioned to each phenophase, and differed in their ranking from earliest to latest in each phenophase. Cultivars differed in their final leaf number from 5.5 to 8. But this number was unchanged by thermal amplitude. Similarly, rate of leaf appearance and the related variable, phyllochron, were unaffected by thermal amplitude. It is concluded that the common approach of using daily mean temperature to calculate thermal time for modelling purposes, ignoring any possible effects of thermal amplitude, is acceptable for the temperature regimes used here.
90003348|Nowadays the abiotic stress factor that causes the greatest problems for crop production is extremely high temperature. The aim of the research was to determine the heat tolerance of various wheat varieties and to measure changes in their quality in two phases of development (shooting and grain filling) under controlled phytotronic conditions. Changes in the yield quantity, the grain diameter, the protein content and the ratio of protein components were examined in plants exposed to extremely high temperatures. It could be seen from the results that in the earlier developmental phase the varieties were much more sensitive to heat stress than in the adult stage. Heat stress during grain filling led to a significant reduction in yield parameters. Decreasing values of UPP% (unextractable polymeric protein) and the Glu/Gli (glutenin to gliadin) ratio generally indicate a deterioration in quality despite the increase in the protein content. The plants suffered heat shock when treated at 41C.
23785310|A series of experiments were conducted in this study to assess variation for 22Na uptake in durum wheat genotypes grown at low and moderate salt concentration, and verify the usefulness of this character as an index of intra-specific variability for Na accumulation. Wide variation, much larger than previously reported for this taxon, was found among genotypes for 22Na uptake at 1 mol m3 NaCl. However, the character did not seem able to discriminate among entries at higher NaCl concentrations (25 and 50 mol m3). No relationships were found between 22Na concentration in low-salt-grown seedlings and sodium acccumulation at higher salinity levels. Moreover, a correlation was found in some cases between high 22Na uptake at low NaCl concentration (presumably a detrimental attribute) and high K accumulation at higher salinity (a supposedly beneficial feature). The tests suggested that 22Na uptake into low-salt-grown seedlings is not necessarily closely correlated with Na leaf concentration at higher salinity. These results clearly limit the value of assessing 22Na uptake at low external NaCl concentration, and the possible use of 22Na as a within-species selection criterion remains uncertain.
23787291|Russian wheat aphid (Diuraphis noxia Mordvilko) is a cosmopolitan pest of wheat. Development of resistant genetic sources is economically and environmentally effective. The objective of this study was to localize and tag a Russian wheat aphid resistance gene in Iranian tetraploid wheat line '1881', using microsatellite markers. Thirty pairs of microsatellite primers of group 7 chromosomes of wheat were screened, using bulked-segregant analysis. Four microsatellite primer pairs of chromosome 7B revealed polymorphism between susceptible and resistant parents and bulk DNA samples of resistant and susceptible individuals, among which the linkage of 2 markers was confirmed. The locus Xgwm46-7B was the closest to the RWA resistance locus with a distance of 10 cM. The identified locus on chromosome 7B of the tetraploid wheat line '1881' may be orthologous to one of the previously identified RWA resistance loci on chromosome 7D.
23781528|As a result of crosses between Hordeum vulgare /2n=14 and 28/ and Secale cereale /2n=14 and 28/ the haploids at a low frequency and one intergeneric hybrid were produced. By pollination of barley with H. jubatum  4x S. cereale and with BC1 - BC4 progenies of H. jubatum  2x S. cereale backcrossed to rye, 15 trispecific and one barley-alloplasmic rye hybrids were obtained.
23789992|Despite the importance of barley as an animal feed, its forage quality has usually been neglected in breeding programs. In order to map the genomic regions, which modify barley forage quality, a population of 72 F 1 -derived doubled haploid lines (DH) from the cross "Steptoe/Morex" and their two parents were sown in Karaj and Zabol provinces of Iran, in each under a randomized complete block arrangement with two replications. Forage samples were oven-dried and ground and dry matter digestibility (DMD), acid detergent fiber (ADF), neutral detergent fiber (NDF), acid detergent lignin (ADL), crude fiber (CF), crude protein (CP), water-soluble carbohydrates and ash content were measured by NIRS. Analysis of variance showed that genotype, environment and genotypeenvironment interaction have significant effects on almost all studied traits. Several QTLs were resolved for each studied trait in both environments. Highest LOD scores were obtained for CF, ADF and DMD on chromosome 2H and for ash and CP on chromosomes 3H and 5H, respectively. QTLs for NDF were present on all chromosomes except 4H and 7H. QTL x environment interaction and the specificity of the QTLs are discussed.
23783645|A field experiment was conducted at the USDA Witchweed Field Station in Dillon, S.C., USA, to evaluate genetic variability for resistance to Striga asiatica in a diverse group of maize genotypes. Genotypes differed significantly in the number of S. asiatica they supported. The most resistant genotypes, Pioneer Hybrid 3181, a commercial USA hybrid adapted to the southern USA, and TZI-30, an inbred adapted to the lowland tropics, supported less than 15% of the S. asiatica of the susceptible check, Pioneer Hybrid 3147. Early counts and dry weight of S. asiatica were significantly correlated with counts at the end of the season (r=0.58 and r=0.84, n=30, respectively). Average yield of the resistant adapted hybrid P.H. 3181 was 2.71 t/ha while the yield of the adapted susceptible check P.H. 3147 was only 0.89 t/ha. Using multiple checks, and converting measured plot values to a percent of the nearest check did not reduce the c.v. of the experiment, nor significantly alter the ranking of the genotypes.
23789307|Activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), guaiacol peroxidase (PX), glutahione peroxidase (GPX) and catalase (CAT) as well as formation of malondialdehyde (MDA) and liposoluble fluorescent compounds (LFC) in leaves of 20 wheat genotypes, parents and hybrids of F1 and F2 generation were examined. The aim was to determine inheriting pattern of investigated parameters and relation between antioxidative enzyme activities and lipid peroxidation and LFC formation. No consistent role of inheritance of antioxidant parameters was found. Investigated genotypes and hybrids, among themselves, differed significantly in antioxidative enzyme activities and MDA and LFC content. Results presented indicate that high contents of MDA and LFC are associated with low activities of antioxidative enzymes. Also, relatively small quantities of MDA and LFC are associated with high activities of SOD and CAT.
23782732|In the 1970-1983 period 4024 isolates of Fusarium were identified from different parts of diseased wheat plants. The most prevalent species were F.graminearum and F.culmorum /58.58 and 26.13%/. Another 15 species occurred in small, but varying rations /0.02-2.36%/. F.graminearum was prevalent in the ear region, while F.culmorum dominated on the lower stalk, stalk base and the root system.
23787198|An efficient and reproducible Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated system for wheat transformation was developed and genetically transformed wheat plants were produced using precultured immature embryos as the explant. The embryos were inoculated with a disarmed A. tumefaciens strain C58C1 carrying a binary vector pPTN115 coding for the -glucuronidase gene (GUS), and a selectable marker, the neomycin phosphotransferase II gene (NPT II). A. tumefaciens cell density (OD660 = 0.6) for inoculation was found to be crucial. Two hours of inoculation period and co-cultivation for 48 h was favorable for the regeneration of transgenic plants. The transformation efficiency was comparable to that obtained by microprojectile bombardment method used routinely for wheat transformation. Stable integration, expression and inheritance of transgenes were demonstrated by molecular and genetic analysis of transformants. Both marker genes, gus and nptII, were expressed and co-segregated in the T1 progeny plants. In the majority of cases, the genes showed Mendelian segregation predicted for transgene insertion at a single locus.
23787581|Irrigated wheat response to different population densities and planting dates when it is planted on raised beds is not well defined. A field study was carried out at the Yaqui Valley Agricultural Experimental Station in Sonora, Mexico during fall-winter 1992-1993, in a split plot design with three planting dates: Nov 10, Dec 10 and Jan 10; and six population densities: 50, 100, 150 200, 250 and 800 thousand plants per hectare (TPPH), in a complete randomized block design, with four replications. The fertilization used was 150-40-0 kg ha1 of N-P2O5-K2O; the wheat variety used was Altar C85. Results indicated that wheat response to population density (PD) was different at different planting dates. At an early date, the plants grew taller and more vigorous and the field area could be covered with a small number of plants. The optimal PD was around 150 TPPH (15 plants m2) when planted on Nov 10, which represents less than 10 kg ha1 of seed. After this date, it was required to increase the PD as the planting date was delayed through Jan 10. The wheat capacity to produce tillers can explain its response to PD, and the different response to the planting date was explained by an increased grain density, which also is function of the size of the plant canopy.
23781345|If the flowers of male sterile wheats are not fertilised they open for a second time. This second opening is caused by an enlargement of the pistils. It has been found that during the second opening the width, fresh and dry weight, and volume of the pistils become many times larger. The increase in dry weight is much smaller than that of the fresh weight. The swelling of the pistil is associated with an increase in the size of the cells in the pistil wall, but there is no significant change in the number of cells. Thus, the enlargement of the pistil is due to the uptake of water.
90003064|Altogether 8 tomato-shaped sweet pepper varieties, namely Olympia, Greygo, Piknik, Turbn, Pasa, Gogosri, Vitamin, Pritavit were studied. The experiment was performed under outdoor conditions, applying organic method with soil covering (woven PP foil). One-time harvest was done. The total yield, the quality and the ripening grade of the varieties was evaluated.
23787578|The aim of this investigation was to determine the reliability of a method of artificial spike inoculation compared with natural infection data and to determine differences in resistance of the Bc winter wheat lines to Fusarium head blight in two climatically different years. Two identical small-scale trials were conducted with 15 Bc winter wheat lines and three sources of resistance: Poncheau, (D48 x 42 x 6) 2 and Roazon in five replications planted in Botinec in 2001 and 2002. The first trial was conducted under natural infection, and the second was inoculated with a spore suspension of 5 x 105 spores/ml using a hand sprayer. Correlation coefficient was determined for resistance in natural and artificial conditions (r = 0.78 and 0.82). Artificial inoculation of wheat spikes with Fusarium graminearum spore suspension using the sprayer method was successful in different weather conditions. Sources of resistance Poncheau, (D 48 x 42 x 6) 2 and Roazon proved their value. Bc winter wheat lines Bc 5792, Bc 733, Bc 5887, Bc 18, and Bc 5210 were found to reveal higher resistance to Fusarium head blight.
23787145|This study was conducted to develop baseline equations, which can be used to quantify crop water stress index (CWSI) for evaluating crop water stress in three winter wheat genotypes (Triticum aestivum L.) and to schedule irrigation and predict yield. Plants were grown under basin irrigation and subjected to five water treatments ranging from 100 to 0 % (100, 75, 50, 25, 0 %) replacement of evapotranspirational losses within 0.90 m soil profile. The highest yield and water use was obtained under fully irrigated conditions (100 % replenishment of soil water depleted). The lower (non-stressed) and upper (stressed) baselines were determined empirically from measurements of canopy and ambient air temperatures and vapour pressure deficit (VPD) on fully watered plants (100%) and under maximum water stress (0 %), respectively. The CWSI was determined by using the empirical approach for the five irrigation levels. The yield was directly correlated with the mean CWSI values and the linear equation for three genotypes (Saraybosna, Kate-A-1 and F-85), "Y = 1463.3  1062.3 CWSI", "Y = 1483.8  1052.8 CWSI" and "Y = 1701.8  1367.7 CWSI" can be used for the yield prediction. CWSI values may also provide a valuable tool for monitoring water status and planning irrigation scheduling for wheat.
23781550|Forty-eight F1 's, representing 16 parents, were examined to gain further insights into the inheritance of aluminum (A1) tolerance in wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em thell), a trait related to adaptation in many areas with acid soils. Root elongation in nutrient solutions containing A1 was used as an indicator of Al tolerance. Variance components were used to compute heritabilities. bilities. Parents exhibited a wide range of responses to the Al rates studied. Root elongation in Atlas 66 and Seneca was not reduced by the highest of three Al levels used; whereas, the sensitive cultivars Abe, Redcoat, and McNair 4823 were severely stunted at the low rate. Other cultivars varied betwen these extremes, suggesting this trait was not simply inherited. A large portion of the genetic variation among the F1 's appeared to be additive and heritabilities were relatively high (0.57 based on parents selected as males and 0.91 for the female parents). The results indicated that effective levels of Al tolerance could be incorporated into soft red winter wheats using readily available germplasm sources.
90002944|When tested in variety trials set in various environmental conditions, maize hybrids from different maturity groups can display different patterns of adaptation related to their differential response to dominant environmental factors, which could also be altered by applied agricultural practice. Sampling the data set from an actual breeding program, the aim of the present study was to investigate these patterns of adaptation. The results revealed that expected patterns adaptation were only partially expressed in only one of the trial years, indicating the existence of complex plant-soil-climate interrelationships, raising the demand for full understanding of all their components for succesfull prediction of the hybrid performance.
23783716|Effect of flag leaf removal on grain yield, yield components, plant height and protein content of the grain was investigated in four bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L) varieties. Flag leaf removal significantly reduced plant height, spike length, number of grains per spike, 1000-grain weight and grain yield while the protein content of the grain was significantly increased by this treatment. However flag leaf removal does not show any effect on number of spikelets per spike. Flag leaf area showed significant positive correlation with grain yield per plant however, the association between flag leaf area and protein content of the grain was significant negative.
90002927|Research was carried out at two experimental fields in Jelenscak near Popovaca in the period 1999  2002. Drainpipes installed at two different soil types - Stagnosol and Gleysol have been with similar ways of installation. Stagnosol had higher average drainage efficiency in February, April and December, while Gleysol had higher drainage in all other months, with exemption of November, when average efficiency was the same. Average soybean yield in 2002 at drained Stagnosol was 3.0 t ha
90003056|For environmentally sound fertilization, adequate information on the agrochemical characteristics of soils as well as on the nutrient status of crops are necessary. Tillering stage is widely used for characterizing the nutrient status of cereals as nutrient concentrations are high at this stage. Literature data indicating the nutrient concentrations and nutrient supply categories of spring malting barley is still not complete.
23783660|Soluble protein, proteinase activities and the effects of selective proteinase inhibitors on these activities were assayed from extracts of the three uppermost leaf blades of field-grown barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Kilta) collected between anthesis and full senescence. Soluble protein decreased evenly during senescence and in fully senescent leaves the content was less than 10 % of that at anthesis. Proteinase activities (hydrolysis of hemoglobin at pH 3.7; hydrolysis of casein at pH 5.4 and 7.5) did not increase noticeably during senescence. However, inhibitions caused by selective proteinase inhibitors E-64, diisopropyl fluorophosphate and pepstatin show that the leaves of barley contain at least three different types of proteinases and that the activities of these proteinases change during senescence.
90002648|Viruses are limiting factors of ornamental plant production and play important role in the epidemiology of other vegetable and field crops. Natural virus infections of ornamental plants were studied in the Carpathian basin. Virus infestations to 12 different viruses were testing using DAS-ELISA and back inoculation in 123 samples from 10 plant genera. Different symptoms (mosaic, chlorosis, leaf deformation and necrotic lesions) were observed on the collected plants.
90002749|Chemical composition of maize kernels was examined from 5 cropping sites. We found that the performance of recurrent hybrids grown on different locations is equalized by optimal input utilization, so they are suitable for offer a homogenous stock by their protein, starch, fat and fibre content. Whereas, significant deviation around the mean is experienced by the examination of the results of 30 hybrids, which means that hybrids, suitable for other utilization ways by the yield and protein content centered forage, are present. It is important to explore the effects of environment and agrotechnic factors on the genetic base to reach the best result in agronomy practice.
23786792|To assess the potential of carbon isotope discrimination as a selection criterion for enhancing stress yield, simulated water deficit field studies were undertaken to measure its genetic variation and association with yield and yield related traits. Discrimination was significantly reduced in terminal stress compared to well watered conditions. Carbon isotope discrimination was significantly correlated with grain yield, biological yield, harvest index, and productive tillers under terminal and preanthesis stress.
23786189|The structure and the composition of the wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) grain are heterogeneous. In order to study the composition of grain compartments, we developed a method to easily isolate a relative large amount of endosperms and embryos. The analysis of proteins were made as an example of compartimentation and heterogeneity of grain composition. Proteins were sequentially extracted and analysed by RP-HPLC. Gliadin and glutenin are specific to the endosperm, whereas some albumins-globulins are found in the endosperm, some in the embryo and others are common in both sites. The quantitative contribution of embryo proteins to the whole grain proteins however was not significant because of the low proportion of embryo weight to whole grain dry matter. Thus for proteins, the analyses of flour could be considered as equivalent as the analysis of the whole grain.
23792316|Maize cultivars (4 composites, 14 inbreds and 7 hybrids) cultivated in Punjab were characterized using a set of 70 Simple Sequence Repeat (SSR) markers with a total of 199 alleles. Out of these, 67 markers produced polymorphic profiles, 3 were monomorphic. Eight SSR primers detected eight unique alleles in three genotypes. These unique SSR alleles provide an opportunity for unambiguous differentiation of the respective genotypes. SSR profiles were analyzed by using computer softwares NTSYS-pc and DARwin 5.0. Both of them classified the genotypes in four distinct groups.
23790369|As water deficiency becomes a more frequent cause of the reduction in wheat yield levels, the search for donors of drought tolerance to be bred into adapted land races becomes urgent. Drought tolerance has been evaluated by the 13 C discrimination method in six land races of emmer wheat (Triticum dicoccum SCHRANK), compared with land races, obsolete cultivars and modern varieties of soft wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). The results of a two-year trial show that most of the genetic resources of emmer wheat, and intermediate land races of wheat are predisposed to drought tolerance. These varieties respond to dry conditions more sensitively, as they close their pores earlier (a lower value of the discrimination of 13 C isotope). As for other land races and the top modern varieties of soft wheat, they are not thought to be predisposed to drought tolerance and their crop stands are liable to serious damage.
23792326|Variety description matrices are studied by a new method. The similarity histograms of the variety pairs of the real variety description matrices were calculated using the distances between the variety pairs and compared with those of the so-called artificial randomization matrices. By the aid of a planned and simulated series of randomization matrices a similarity calibration could be developed and so the level of the general similarity and resemblance of the varieties of the original real variety description matrix could be estimated. The different planned variety descriptions generated by random numbers are produced by an own developed program. Similarly, the series of the sample variety descriptions of different kinds of distributions (uniform, normal), tha calculations, the data of histograms, of distances were made by our programs.
23781444|        ,          .       ,     ,   ,        .    ,            .
90003406|Drought tolerance of wheat was tested by a mobile automatic rain shelter (MARS) in a conventional pedigree breeding program of Cereal Research Non-Profit Ltd. Co. (CRC) in Szeged. The MARS, parallel with ideal water supply gives a good chance for field testing of relatively high number of genotypes for drought tolerance. Using the automatic rain shelter which was installed in 2006, advanced lines of winter wheat could be tested for tolerance to water shortages under irrigated (control treatment) and under dry conditions. Withdrawal of water caused significant effects on yield and yield components and raised the canopy temperature of the genotypes tested. We have developed a novel breeding system by which we can routinely select for drought resistance. The methods applied can easily be incorporated into our working pedigree breeding system.
23789296|The storage of wheat data in computers began in the mid-eighties in Martonvsr, and was accompanied by the development of the first simple programs to assist the data management of routine breeding tasks. The great expansion of breeding materials and the demand for new applications have led to an enormous increase in the number of data and have made data processing increasingly more complicated. Data storage facilities and computer programs reflecting an outdated technological level were unable to keep pace with developments. Data storage and applications had to be redesigned on new lines to create a completely new information system amalgamating know-how from breeding and informatics. The paper introduces an extremely important part of this system: pedigree records, which contain the designations of all the genotypes included in traditional field breeding programmes and in the gene bank, together with crossing data, phenotypes and genomic data. An up-to-date, consistent pedigree register is one of the key components in the breeding information system, without which the maintenance and alteration of the names of plant species (wheat, barley, oats, etc.) and linking them to experiments and experimental quality data would be an extremely complex, time-consuming task. It would be even more difficult to keep track of all the genotypes and the increasingly large numbers of related lines from year to year. In addition to describing the rationale behind the system, details will be given on the tools and conditions required for the establishment of the pedigree records, and the internal and external sources available. Finally, some practical examples will be given of how the Martonvsr wheat breeding information system has been applied.
23782907|A set of 21 genotypes including 18 commercially grown cultivars and 3 breeding lines was studied for coleoptile elongation under three temperature regimes, 10, 20 and 30C. Coleoptile lengths were generally maximum at 10C and became progressively shorter with increase in temperature. Significant differences were observed in coleoptile length of the genotypes under the three temperature regimes. Genotype x temperature interaction studies revealed that genotypes react differently to variation in temperature.
23789305|A problem of decomposing a response variable into a sum of other variables (so-called additive components) is presented in the paper. We propose how to analyze a relationship in which the response variable is affected by its additive components. The approach and interpretation proposed are based on and quite similar to path analysis. Therefore, the approach provides a commonly known view on inferring from causal systems. Its application is presented for grain yield of two spring barley cultivars, which is studied as an effect of grain yields from plants with different number of spikes.
23786796|The effects of fertilization in the irrigated and non-irrigated treatments were investigated at six fertilization levels in four replications every year, using the 4-year yield data of Pannonia. For the evaluation of the fertilization effect we used regression analysis and fitted a quadratic function. The linear and quadratic values of fertilization were the independent variables and the yield was the dependent one. In every case we investigated the significance of the equation and its parameters, too. On the basis of the analysis results with several years' yield data it can be concluded that in non-irrigated treatments the approximation with a quadratic function shows a weak or moderately strong correlation between fertilization and yields. Due to the changeable water supply the effect of fertilization is also extensively changing year by year. Under such circumstances the optimum fertilizer dosage can only be calculated with decreased reliability. With irrigation the differences in the yearly fertilizer responses of Pannonia SC have become smaller and the fluctuation of yields have decreased. The R-values show a strong correlation and its reliability is proved by the significance tests. The accuracy of approximation is good. Considering the value of the standardised regression coefficients, the linear, yield increasing influence is of greater importance. The linear part is dominating the line of the quadratic curve. Under irrigated conditions the optimum fertilizer dosage can be calculated much more precisely and with much greater reliability. When growing Pannonia SC or a similar genotype without irrigation the suggested fertilizer dosage is 30-40 kg N/ha less, that is 100-110 kg/ha, so that to meet economical criteria. In irrigated stands, which means a higher level of yields, the economical fertilizer dosage is also greater (140 kg N/ha) than without irrigation because of the positive irrigation x fertilization interaction.
90002959|A field experiment was conducted in an integrated apple orchard (
23786250|The optimum sowing time of wheat in subtropical countries like Bangladesh lies between mid-November to mid-December. Wheat is usually sown after transplanted summer rice (aman rice). Due to various reasons summer rice cropping is frequently delayed and so is the wheat. Consequently, farmers are deprived of harvesting potential yield of wheat. However, Kanchan, a high yielding variety (HYV), performs relatively better at late sown conditions than other available wheat varieties. The aim of this study was to elucidate the agronomic reasons for better performance of Kanchan over other varieties. Kanchan ('late variety') and Akbar (a HYV and extensively cultivated) were sown in the field on December 04, 1995 and January 04, 1996. Their grain growth pattern from anthesis till maturity, and yield and yield components were analyzed. Variety Kanchan outperformed Akbar in terms of number of ear bearing tillers/m2, individual grain weight and finally grain yield under both sowing conditions. Grain yield was greatly reduced by sowing dates and December sowing plants produced 47% higher yield over the late sowing plants. Grain growth rate and duration for grain growth were affected seriously by sowing times. For December sowing plants the grain growth continued for 39 days in Kanchan and 35 days in Akbar, while the duration was reduced drastically with late sowing to less than 21 days for Kanchan and 19 days for Akbar. Grain growth rate was also higher in Kanchan than in Akbar. Grain growth pattern indicates that both higher growth rate and longer growth duration in Kanchan are responsible for its higher grain yield under late sowing conditions.
90002916|Sponsored by Nitrogenmvek Zrt and professionally coordinated by RISSAC-HAS, a research program started in 2006 in the North-Hungarian Region to initiate recommendations of an environmental friendly fertilization system into the crop production technologies. Field trials were set up in three experimental sites of Kroly Rbert College (Gyngys, Kompolt, Putnok) characterized by different ecological conditions. First year spring barley and maize were the test crops. Experimental data verified that environmental friendly fertilizer use is based on soil test and takes nutrient demands of crops into consideration. Recommended NPK rates were less by 30-60 % on balanced and 20-50 % on integrated level of nutrient supply, compared to the general use doses. Reasonable fertilizer use resulted in no significant grain yield loss.
90002635|Producing fuel from agricultural crops has already raised questions about the impacts on the supply of food and land. What has received less attention is the shift that would result in the location of feedstock and fuel production. Energy demand and land productivity are somewhat asymmetrical. To date, this asymmetry has not mattered greatly as the consumption of biofuels has been insignificant compared to fossil fuels. Most countries have been able to supply their markets with domestically produced biofuels; importing biofuel for transportation use has been minimal. However, as demand increases and as developing countries identify a market in which they may have a comparative advantage, international trade in biofuels may become more commonplace. While developing countries thus arguably have a comparative advantage, there are also concerns that increased production of feedstocks and biofuels in these countries might contribute to increased food insecurity and prove environmentally disruptive.
23787270|The yield performance of three hundred and twenty durum wheat genotypes has been evaluated under late-planting conditions at Aleppo, Syria. Chlorophyll fluorometry was used to determine the in vivo tolerance of photosynthetic membranes to high temperatures in leaves of a subset of seventeen lines which covered a wide range of yield. An important variation was noted for Tc, the threshold temperature for photosystem-II denaturation and for Tp, the peak temperature corresponding to maximal Fo fluorescence. A strong correlation was noted between the two traits (r = 0.69**). A significant correlation (r = 0.53*) was registered between Tc and yield under late-planting conditions. Earliness was also found to strongly correlate with yield (r = 0.75***). Various durum wheat varieties and several lines derived from a cross between the heat susceptible durum variety Korifla and the heat tolerant accession T. dicoccoides 600808 were screened for the tolerance of photosynthetic membranes to high temperatures. The potential interest of the accession T. dicoccoides 600808 as source of heat tolerance has been confirmed.
23786887|Infection of oats with Fusarium culmorum may cause Fusarium head blight (scab), reduction of yield and accumulation o toxic metabolites in kernels. To estimate the correlation between resistance traits and accumulation of nivalenol (NIV), deoxynivalenol (DON) and 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-AcDON) seven oats cultivars were inoculated with F. culmorum in 1994 and 1995 crop years. Susceptibility of cultivar to the pathogen infection was expressed as number of kernels per ripe (KN), yield (Y), and 1000 kernels weight (TKW) of the inoculated group compared to the non-inoculated control plots. The relative KN ranged in 1994 and 1995 respectively from 95.1 to 70.4 %; while Y from 84.6 to 71.4 %; and TKW from 89.9 to 83.2 %. Three trichothecene mycotoxins were analyzed in kernels: NIV at the average level (mg/kg) 0.54 (1994) and 1.53 (1995). Mean concentration of DON and 3-AcDON was lower 0.33; 0.03 (1994), 0.64; 0,08 (1995). For the resistance traits and mycotoxins content in oat grain variance and correlation coefficients were calculated.
23786091|AFLP (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism) markers were investigated for assessing diversity and fingerprinting of a selected sample of soft red winter wheat (SRWW) genotypes that differed for pre-harvest sprouting (PHS) resistance and for the presence of awns. Sixty AFLP primer pairs generated 2944 polymorphic bands out of a total of 6778 bands scored among 15 SRWW genotypes. The mean polymorphism information content was 0.37 and the average marker index was 15.1, indicating that AFLP generated more information in wheat than other molecular markers. Forty-two primer pairs that contained no missing data points were used to create a dendrogram to estimate the genetic distance among genotypes. A total of 4761 loci, of which 1915 were polymorphic, were included in the genetic similarity matrix. Primer pairs showed a high degree of correlation between four arbitrarily divided primer subsets (r=0.82). The SRWW genotypes investigated did not group together regarding resistance to PHS or the presence of awns. The mean genetic similarity values among the 15 genotypes ranged from 0.83 to 0.94. Although the genetic similarity among these soft red winter wheat genotypes was high, differences were found that could be used for assessing genetic diversity as well as for plant variety protection use.
90003290|Ear rot caused by
23783670|Statewide yield testing for evaluation of new lines is a standard practice in most states. Often they are based more on historical procedures than on the need for precise information. Yet these tests are the basis on which new lines may be discarded or released. In order to define what is needed for such decisions, data from the Nebraska Winter Wheat Outstate Testing Project for the years 1967-1972 were examined. Data for twenty-eight cultivars from five cropping districts were used. The districts represent environments with about 700 mm precipitation at an elevation of 300 m to 450 mm or less at 1500 m elevation. One problem encountered in analyzing data over years is the rapid turn over of lines or cultivars tested. In three of the four districts for which data were available, cultivar  year interactions were not significant indicating that the present 3-year testing period is adequate. In contrast, the cultivar  location interactions were significant for all districts suggesting that the number of locations used was inadequate. The performance stability parameters calculated served as useful complements to the mean yield performance data.
23790062|Molecular markers are important tools that have been used to identify the short arm of rye chromosome 1R (1RS) which contains many useful genes introgressed into wheat background. Wheat expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences are valuable for developing molecular markers since ESTs are derived from gene transcripts and more likely to be conserved between wheat and its relative species. In the present study, 35 sequence-tagged site (STS) primers were designed based on EST sequences distributed on homology group 1 chromosomes of Triticum aestivum and used to screen specific markers for chromosome 1RS of Secale cereale. Two primer pairs different from the early studies, STS WE3 , which amplified a 1680-bp and a 1750-bp fragment, and STS WE126 , which produced a 850-bp fragment from rye genome, were proved to be specific to chromosome 1RS since the corresponding fragments were only amplified from 1R chromosome addition line and wheat-rye lines with chromosome 1RS, but not from wheat-rye 2R-7R chromosome addition lines and the other lines lacking chromosome 1RS. Eleven wheat-rye lines derived from 'Xiaoyan 6' and 'German White' were used to test the presence of specific markers for 1RS. The specific fragments of 1RS were amplified in 4 wheat-rye lines, but not in the other lines. The testing results using EST-STS markers of 1RS were consistent with those obtained from fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), suggesting that these markers specific to 1RS could be used in marker-assisted selection (MAS) for incorporating 1RS into wheat cultivars in breeding.
23783084|In sorghum, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, the genetics of fertility restoration was studied in milo (A1) and A2 cytoplasms. Three male sterile lines were crossed with 8 male fertile lines and 19 F2 progenies were studied for male fertility segregation. F2 progenies based on A1 cytoplasm segregated in a 3:1 ratio and those based on A2, in a 9:7 ratio. Alternate ratios based on digenic in the former and trigenic in the latter also fitted well. In view of previous findings and from the present investigation a single major gene Msc1 or Msc2 was given for fertility restoration on A1 cytoplasm. Both Msc1 and Msc2 were concluded to be necessary for fertility restoration on A2. This hypothesis explained why a restorer on A2 is always a restorer on A1 while the converse is not true always.
23782829|Grain weight and micro-DBC-value (protein and/or basic amino acids content) of two Finnish barley landrace populations and a standard variety 'Paavo' were studied using a micro-DBC-method (FP-9 Analyser system). The method made it possible to study simultaneusly both the micro-DBC-value and grain weight of single grains in single heads and their dependence on each other and on their position within the spike. Between the spikes there were seldom significant differences (in 9 % of cases) in grain weight but the grain weight was very often (in 81 % of cases) dependent on the position in the spike. The grains in the middle of the spike are heavier than the grains at the top or base of the spike. The heads differed, however, very often (in 50 % of cases) from each other in terms of the micro-DBC-value. The significant differences in the micro-DBC-value of grains in different positions on the spikes were not as numerous (in 42 % of cases) as the differences in the grain weight within the spikes (in 81 % of cases). The distribution of protein and/or basic amino acids within the head was not the same in 2-row and 6-row barley lines. The significant differences in the micro-DBC-value of the different parts of the heads were more common in 2-row barley lines than in 6-row lines.
23789998|One-step RT-PCR followed by a RFLP assay was developed for the typing of Barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) member of Luteovirus genera. RFLP analysis performed on 23 samples including one lab isolate showed three types of Hpa II restriction profile. A partial coat protein (CP) gene sequencing was carried out and confirmed the RFLP analysis. Both sequencing and RFLP analysis identified the presence of 3 BYDV-PAV (including the lab isolate Blatno85), 10 BYDV-MAV and 10 BYDV-PAS isolates among the field samples. One-step RT-PCR together with RFLP presents an easy and reliable assay for routine BYDV typing. These methods revealed that PAS and MAV are more dominant than PAV in the Czech Republic.
23790348|Fusarium head blight (FHB) of small grain cereals is a worldwide disease that reduces yield and causes deoxynivalenol (DON) contamination in grains. Non-decomposed residues from the previous crop present on the soil surface are considered the principal inoculum sources for Fusarium graminearum and F. culmorum, the most important Fusarium species that cause FHB in Europe. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of the amount of previous residues on the FHB disease under natural conditions and on DON contamination in soft wheat following grain maize. Field experiments were conducted in two cropping seasons and two sites to compare four maize residue densities on the soil surface and in the first 10 cm of soil in tilled and non-tilled fields. Ploughing to a 30 cm depth significantly reduced FHB severity (by 63%) and DON occurrence (by 80%) in each year and site. FHB severity and DON contamination significantly increased with the density of the residues left by the preceding crop. This study confirms that conservation tillage may increase DON concentration in wheat grain compared to ploughing which buries residues. This increase varies to a great extent not only because of the annual weather conditions and the nature of the preceding crop, but also because of the amount of infected crop residues remaining on the soil surface, which depends on the soil tillage methods and the preceding crop.
23789914|The young plants of maize were cultivated as sand culture under controlled conditions in a greenhouse. The water stress caused by interruption of irrigation for a period of 8 days had the effect of statistically significant decrease of the photosynthesis rate (PN) and the transpiration rate (E) as compared with plants under no stress. When the plants were treated with a 100 M abscisic acid (ABA) solution before the interruption of irrigation, this had the effect of further decrease of the levels of PN and E during the first period of measurement (3 to 4 days after interruption of irrigation) and the effect of slowing down the development of water stress in the following period (7 to 8 days after interruption of irrigation). ABA applied through irrigation was more effective than the one applied by sprinkling because it significantly increased the water use efficiency (WUE) in the treated plants. Benzylaminopurine (BAP) used as a 10 M solution brought about an increase of PN and E in comparison with the plants under stress, not treated phytohormones. The result of the combined application of both growth regulators were steady levels of PN during the entire eight-day evaluation of water stress imposed on maize plants. However, during the second period of measuring, the higher levels of E were reflected in a decrease of the WUE level. Two days after irrigation was resumed, the subsequent saturation of plants with water was manifested by an increase of PN in all groups of plants under stress. However, the fairly steady levels remained below the level of PN measured in the control sample under no stress. Rehydration had various effects on E. The level of E increased the most in the case where ABA was used as irrigation. It also increased moderately in the case where ABA was applied by sprinkling and in the case of the plants under stress, not treated phytohormones. On the contrary, E stagnated in the cases with BAP and decreased in the cases where ABA and BAP were applied together.
23784225|This experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of foliar methanol applications on wheat cultivars widely grown in Central Anatolia, Turkey. Two bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars "Gerek 79" and "Bezostaja-1" were used. Methanol solutions with 20% (v/v) were applied at early shooting, late shooting and heading stages and as their combinations under rainfed and irrigated field conditions in two locations, Konya and umra, in 1993-1994 crop season. Total biomass, grain yield, spike number per square meter, grain number per spike, thousand kernel weight, harvest index, plant height, days to heading, and days to maturity after anthesis were evaluated. For most of these traits, the differences between cultivars and between rainfed and irrigated conditions were highly significant. However, methanol applications at different growth stages was totally ineffective on all traits, indicating that methanol does not seem to have a potential for yield increases in wheat under Central Anatolia conditions in Turkey.
23786272|Charcoal rot of sorghum, caused by the fungus Macrophomina phaseolina, is a severe disease in regions where sorghum encounters post-anthesis drought stress. Previous reports disagree with respect to the nature of the genetic factors that condition resistance to charcoal rot. A diallel cross was made using nine genetically diverse sorghum lines. Parental lines and F1 progenies were evaluated in the field in 1997 and 1998 at two locations. Lines were significantly more resistant than F1s, indicating that heterosis was not affecting resistance. General combining ability (GCA) and specific combining ability (SCA) effects were significant for both locations over both years. However, the magnitudes of SCA effects were much smaller than GCA effects. These observations indicate that resistance to charcoal rot is conditioned by both additive and nonadditive effects.
23782912|In Sorghum bicolor (L) Moench, the milo cytoplasm has been extensively in the production of commercial hybrids. In addition to milo, which is conventionally referred to as Al, the existence of two more cytoplasms A2 from IS 12662C and A3 from IS 1112C, is well known. The present study was undertaken to test different sorghum lines for their fertility restoration/maintenance characters on A2 and A3. Thirty seven sorghum breeding lines were crossed as males to three iso-cytoplasmic lines CKP A1, CKP A2 and CKP A3. CKP is a four swarf kafir. The resulting one hundred eleven F1 hybrids were scored for their male fertility and seed set. Each of the lines gave a clear cut sterile or fertile reaction. No partial fertiles were encountered. All the thirty seven lines behaved as females on A3, thirty one as females and seven as males on A2; and eighteen as females and nineteen as males on A1. Sterilizing some of the lines in A2, that behave as males on A1 suggested the possibility of broadening the spectrum of commercial females in sorghum breeding programmes.
23789920|The competitive and adaptive capacity of Cochliobolus sativus were determined using the two major pathotypes in populations on barley in Syria Pt1 and Pt4, which differed widely in their virulence. Following greenhouse co-inoculation with the two pathotypes, Pt4 frequency average increased from the first to the last of four infection cycles, but decreased for Pt1. The number of lesions caused by Pt4 was individually higher than their mixture on both barley cultivars, Bowman and WI2291. Moreover, the number of lesions was increased over the four cycles on both cultivars. The results suggest that isolates of different pathotypes would adapt at different rates in a mixed environment due to competitive advantage imposed by their virulence properties.
23781525|A selection experiment was conducted with three random-mating populations of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench]. The selections were made simultaneously in high and low nitrogen fertility for grain and biomass productivity. Yield trials of selected S3 and S4 bulks showed no advantage of selection in low fertility. These results indicate that breeding sorghum in low nitrogen fertility is not necessary; only the testing of advance generation progenies in low nitrogen environment may be sufficient to ensure that the newly selected cultivars perform reasonably well in the low fertility environments.
23783891|Stomata) frequency and size were determined in the leaves of eight bread wheat cultivars, one self-fertile, homozygous, dwarf rye cultivar and their newly synthesized amphiploids. All the wheat cultivars, rye and their amphiploids showed greater number of stomata per unit area in their flag leaf than in the penultimate leaf, and also in the adaxial surface than in the abaxial surface. The wheats and the amphiploids showed significant differences for stomatal frequency on the whole as well as individually among themselves. The rye cultivar showed significantly greater number of stomata than the wheats and most of the amphiploids. However, a few amphiploids resembled rye for stomatal frequency in the penultimate leaf. The stomatal size was significantly smaller in the rye compared with the wheats and the amphiploids, and similarly, the wheats had significantly shorter stomata as compared with most of the amphiploids. Significant differences were also observed for stomatal size individually within wheats and amphiploids. Differences were also observed for stomatal frequency with respect to ploidy level. Significant positive correlation was observed between adaxial and abaxial surfaces for stomatal frequency in both the leaves, but a negative association was observed between stomatal frequency and size. The estimates of heritability were found to be quite high for both traits. The genetic advance was found to be the highest for stomatal frequency on abaxial surface of the penultimate leaf.
23786105|Eight hexaploid triticale genotypes, five of spring and three of winter growth habit, were used to study the genetic variability existing for phyllochron, number of leaves on main stem, and cycle length, under four contrasting field environments. Genetic variability was detected for all the traits studied, being most of the variation associated to the growth habit of the genotype. Multivariate analysis allowed to properly separate both types of triticale. Winter genotypes required 11% and 6.4% more thermal time to reach anthesis and physiological maturity, respectively, than spring genotypes. Phyllochron was, in average, 91 and 99 GDD leaf1 in spring and winter triticale, respectively. Winter triticale genotypes had 11 and spring triticale 9 leaves on the main stem. No variability was detected within spring triticales for these traits, whereas cycle duration and leaf number varied within the winter types.
23782783|Propiconazole plus tridemorph fungicide applied at flag leaf emergence and again at ear emergence reduced the Hagberg falling number (HFN) of whole grain flour from the winter wheat varieties, Avalon, Mission and Brimstone. The fungicide also controlled low powdery mildew (Erysiphe graminis f.sp. tritici) levels and severe Septoria tritici but results from plots sprayed either with or without fungicide showed no relationship between disease and HFN. Moisture content of the harvested grain was greater from plots sprayed with fungicide but this was not clearly associated with lodging.
23783895|In a half-diallel experiment, 9 varieties differing in response to stem rust and all their 36 hybrid progenies were planted in stem rust-infected and protected environments in the years 1986 and 1987, with four replicates in each year. Entries were separated by stem rust-susceptible spreader rows. In the infected section, these spreader rows were artificially inoculated in the stem elongation (31) stage with a mixture of stem rust races 1, 11, 34, 218 and 331. The protected part was sprayed with Bayleton 25 WP at weekly intervals. Griffing diallel analysis revealed that mostly additive gene effects controlled the recorded characters of stem rust resistance and 1000 kernel mass, but the non-additive genes also played an appreciable role. As concerns the general combining abilities with regard to the 1000 kernel mass, significant differences were found between the protected and the infected conditions. These differences were clearly caused by the resistance level of the parents. Covariance/variance regression showed that Aurora and GK Sgvri carried dominant genes for stem rust under both conditions, while GK Mini Man, in spite of its low 1000 kernel mass, carried many dominant genes for high 1000 kernel mass under infected conditions, due to its resistance to stem rust. The conclusion may be drawn that study of the inheritance of stress-sensitive quantitative characteristics should be performed under stress-free conditions.
90003034|As an EU candidate country, Croatia is facing the implementation of new regulations on plant protection products. Atrazine banning requires new solutions for weed control. This paper compares the efficacy of registered herbicides in maize which can replace atrazine in pre-emergence. Combinations of terbuthylazine, mesotrione, isoxaflutole and flumioxazin with acetochlor are compared with atrazine+acetochlor through control percentages of total, broadleaved and grass weed numbers. Results are obtained from herbicide trials conducted over several years and locations. Treatment efficacy was dependent on precipitation. With terbuthylazine+acetochlor, mesotrione+acetochlor and flumioxazin+acetochlor similar weed control was obtained as with atrazine+acetochlor. Isoxaflutole+acetochlor provided better weed control results than atrazine+acetochlor. The tested herbicides can be considered possible substitutes for atrazine and, like atrazine, all need the assistance of herbicides efficient on grass weeds.
23784222|Durum wheat is of major importance in the Mediterranean area. However, its quality is negatively influenced by starchiness in the grain, i.e."yellow-berry". This trait is more influenced by environment than genetics, but the factors which are involved are poorly understood. In an experiment on durum wheat with several sowing dates and depths, kernels were assessed for "yellow-berry" during the determination of thousand-seed-weight. A significantly greater incidence of "yellow-berry" was observed at early sowing and with deeper sowing. Seasonal differences were pronounced, with hardly any expression of "yellow-berry" in the drier of the two years.
23783861|The effect of development stage on latency period and infection frequency was examined in the greenhouse by inoculating five different stages of 5 wheat genotypes with wheat leaf rust and 3 barley genotypes with barley leaf rust. A new inoculation method, with agar strips, was successfully used. Both in wheat and barley, the latency period was longer in the adult plant stage then in the seedling stage. There was a good correlation between the relative latency period in the flag leaf and the latency period of the first, second, third and fourth leaves. The infection frequency decreased with increasing developmental stage, differences were not statistically significant. The leaves below the flag leaf, inoculated at the same moment, showed longer latency periods and decreased infection frequencies. Both components were less variable in barley than in wheat.
23792375|Wheat is one of the most important crops which have the ability to form cohesive dough. The high molecular weight glutenins are responsible for the elasticity and strength of the dough. By studying the allelic diversity of high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS), characterization of genetic resources and quality of wheat varieties can be done for improving the bread-making quality of hexaploid wheat. Current study was under taken to determine the HMW-GS profile of 52 wheat genotypes grown in Pakistan using SDS-PAGE. At HMW-GS encoding loci; Glu-A1, Glu-B1 and Glu-D1: alleles 3, 6 and 4 were identified. The frequently occurring HMW-GS composition was 2*, 17+18 and 2+12. The Glu-1 score ranged from 610 with an average of 8. The genetic index for Glu-A1 locus was higher compared to Glu-B1. Though heterogeneity is not much, as the wheat genotypes of Pakistan possess good quality HMW-GS combinations, thereby affecting the bread-making quality of wheat through selection and breeding.
23786875|To create Fusarium spike scab resistant wheat varieties the donors and local varieties with weak susceptibility to Fusarium root rot should be involved. Selection of Fusarium spike scab resistant lines should begin in F1 hybrids and continue to F4- F5. The plants with minor damages of spike and grain should be selected under conditions of artificial infection of Fusarium graminearum. Spring wheat lines selected with such technique were high resistant to this pathogen and had some valuable agronomic traits.
90002644|Five spring two-rowed barley genotypes were studied in the experiment. Spike length (SL) and grain weight per spike (GWS) with increasing nitrogen (N) rates and three seed densities (SD) used were examined. The genotypes studied were determined to have expressed a decrease in both SL and GWS as SD increased. Over the three-year period, average SL obtained at SDs of 500, 400 and 300 grains per m
23789292|DNA methylation polymorphism among nine elite maize inbred lines was assessed by inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) fingerprinting on intact DNA and DNA digested by either of a pair of methylation-sensitive isoschizomers, HpaII and MspI. It was found that, along with distinct genetic differentiation, extensive DNA methylation polymorphism exists among the nine inbred lines. The line-specific methylation patterns are homogeneous within each line, indicating their usefulness as molecular markers for cultivar identification. DNA sequences underlying the DNA methylation variations include a high proportion of coding genes. Cluster analysis, however, indicates the existence of incongruence between DNA methylation polymorphism and known-pedigree of the maize inbred lines.
90003092|It is well known that the high tillage force values influence plant yield notably. Thus, tillage force mapping can be an effective tool for site-specific management. This information should be provided in the most simple, labor-effective and low-priced way. The cost of the tool or rather the measurement should be commensurate with the value of the information provided. Soil resistance measurement with penetrometer provides only discontinuous field information. To receive proper amount of data we need to measure with an on-line method. According to earlier developments that were carried out in our institute the authors are presenting new results. The system is based on the electro-hydraulic system (EHS) of a tractor. Load cells are installed in the EHS, which provide electric signals with the ratio of the forces affecting the hydraulic system. The induced voltages from the load cells using an RS232-ADC module were fed to the DellAxim x50v PDA throughout Quatech DSCF-100 two ports RS232 serial Compact Flash Card. A software developed at the institute records and displays the digitized summarized signals of the load cells and writes to the main memory of the PDA together with the position (GPS) information in *.txt format.
90003091|Pre-harvest prediction of various conditions  such as nitrogen content  of plants can provide information about soil-plant interaction as well as data for the harvest. With the help of multispectral satellite imaging yield and nitrogen content of various plants can be predicted well before harvest. Authors aim was to investigate the usability of geometrically and spectrally more precise hyperspectral imaging for early prediction of quality and quantity parameters of spring barley. Results showed that prediction of grain quality compared to prediction quantity was achievable with higher confidence based on hyperspectral imaging. Correlation of spring barley grain nitrogen content  based on field sample collection and data analysis in laboratory, interpolated to the same resolution as the hyperspectral image by GIS software  with multiply regression analysis of the best 10 spectral channel between 400 and 2450 nm hyperspectral image was relatively strong (R
90002910|Nature protected plant species characteristic for loess grasslands of the Hungarian Great Plain can be found in several grape yards of hilly areas that have been abandoned different times (20200 years) ago. Small parcels of abandoned grape yards were studied in the Putnok Hills micro region of the Northern Hungarian Mountain Range. Rare loess plant species could be detected as a consequence of erosion driven by century-old hoeing and great slope angle, as loessy parent material has appeared on (or near) the surface of the soils, resulting in the appearance of plant taxa characteristic for loess grasslands of plain and foothill regions.
23790061|Although significant progress has been made on Agrobacterium-mediated wheat transformation, the current methodologies use immature embryos as recipient tissues, a process which is labor intensive, time consuming and expensive. In this study, we have managed to develop an Agrobacterium-based transformation scheme using explants derived from mature embryos. Based on transient expression of -glucuronidase (GUS) marker, mature embryo halves prepared from freshly imbibed seeds were generally most susceptible to Agrobacterium-mediated T-DNA transfer. According to the results of callus induction and shoot production, Yumai 66 and Lunxuan 208 showed higher selection and regeneration efficiency than Bobwhite. In line with this finding, fertile T 0 transgenic plants were most readily obtained for both spring and winter wheat when mature embryo halves were used for co-inoculation by Agrobacterium cells. The presence of the antibiotic selection marker (nptII, encoding neomycin phosphotransferase II) in the T 0 plants was revealed by both genomic PCR amplification and the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Additional analysis showed that the transgene was stably inherited from the two different generations and segregated normally among the T 1 progenies. Further development along this line will raise the efficiency of wheat transformation and increase the use of this approach in the molecular breeding of wheat crop.
90003279|The influence of the flowering process on the
23786924|The inherent precision of spot blotch (SB) and common root rot (CRR) screening procedure through repeatability analysis was evaluated in seedling plants of three barley genotypes (Thibaut, WI2291 and AECS 76). High repeatability of assessments obtained by partitioning of variance components (69.0 to 86.0) for BS and (75.0 to 85.0) for CRR. On the basis of the variance component estimate, gain in precision was calculated using Falconer method. The results show that a moderate increase of precision ( 2% for SB and  4% for CRR) may be acquired through repeating the screening a second time for both diseases. Attained information from this study suggests that seedling screening of both SB and CRR under controlled conditions provides consistent information on host response, and reliable host reaction information could be obtained through a less number of repeated evaluations.
23782910|An electrophoretic analysis of the esterase isozyme system (EC 3.1.1.1) was made in seeds of two tetraploid triticale forms and their initial parental species - hexaploid triticale (AABBRR) and tetraploid rye (RRRR). The tetraploid triticale forms (2n=28) comprise one whole rye genome (RR) and a second genome which is a mixture of chromosome pairs belonging to the A and B genomes of wheat. Results obtained show that both tetraploid triticale forms comprise chromosomes 3A in their genomes and this fact gives ground for the assumption that electrophoretic analysis of esterase in tetraploid triticale form seeds could be used in assessing the presence of chromosomes 3A and/or 3B in their genomes.
23787279|Susceptibility of commercial corn (Zea mays L.) hybrids to aflatoxin contamination was determined at Winnsboro, Louisiana in 1997 and 1998. Thirty-three hybrids were inoculated with 106 conidia/ml of Aspergillus flavus 20 days after midsilk using the pinbar technique. All corn hybrids grown in Louisiana were susceptible to A. flavus and aflatoxin contamination in the field, but differences were detected among hybrids. When averaged across 1997 and 1998, levels of aflatoxin were highest in DeKalb 683 (26,854 ng/g) and Mycogen 2725 (25,254 ng/g) and lowest in Terra TR1185 (3,967 ng/g), Terra TR1167 (5,104 ng/g), Asgrow RX 938 (5,112 ng/g), Terra TR 1226 (5,540 ng/g), Pioneer 3394 (6,354 ng/g), and Pioneer 3167 (7,174 ng/g). This study documents the extreme susceptibility of commercial corn hybrids grown in the southern United States and demonstrates the need for continued research to identify host plant resistance.
23787088|Concentrations of soluble carbohydrates were compared in crown tissue of two oat (Avena sativa) cultivars which differed in their response to second-phase cold hardening. The apoplastic fluid from plants which had been hardened at above freezing temperatures (first phase cold hardening) contained 2% of the total crown carbohydrate. After one day of exposure to second phase hardening the carbohydrate percentage in the apoplast increased to 15% of total carbohydrates. Apoplastiv carbohydrate concentrations in the two cultivars, however, were not significantly different from each other at any time period. An increase in apoplastic sugars may be a ubiquitous mechanism of winter cereals which allows them to survive below freezing temperatures where other mechanisms provide tolerance to more extreme temperatures.
23781363|Genotype variances and genotype-environment interaction variances for yield of winter wheat in southwestern Ontario were studied. Variance among cultivars was negligible, however cultivars interacted with environment, with excess precipitation thought to be a responsible factor. The interaction of cultivars with environment ought to be considered before discarding or selecting potential cultivars. Variance estimates suggest that the current numbers of test sites, years and replications used by the Ontario Cereal Crops Committee in S.W. Ontario are not adequate to detect significant yield differences of 3 to 5% among cultivars, which is a practical goal.
23782962|The efficacy of the herbicide antidotes NA (1,8-naphthalic anhydride), R-25788 (N,N-diallyl-2,2-dichloroacetamide), cyometrinil [-(cyanomethoxy)-imino-benzeneacetonitrile], and CGA-92194 [-(1,3-dioxolan-2-yl-methoxy)-imino-benzeneacetonitrile] in protecting the DeKalb 'XL72AA' and 'XL67' hybrids of corn (Zea mays L.) against injury from preemergence applications of the herbicide isouron (N-[5-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-3-isoxazolyl]-N,N-dimethylurea) was evaluated under greenhouse conditions. Isouron was tested at 0.3, 0.6, 0.9 and 1.2 kg/ha and its activity on corn was rate-dependent. Rates higher than 0.6 kg/ha were extremely phytotoxic to both corn hybrids causing severe stunting and often death of the treated plants. NA, cyometrinil, and CGA-92194, when applied alone as seed dressings, reduced significantly the dry weights of seedling shoots of both corn hybrids with 'XL72AA' being slightly more sensitive. R-25788 was not phytotoxic to corn. NA was the most effective of the four antidotes and offered partial protection to both corn hybrids against isouron injury. Some antagonistic interactions between cyometrinil and isouron were also evident on 'XL72AA' corn. The combined effects of R-25788 or CGA-92194 and isouron on both hybrids of corn were primarily additive and in a few instances synergistic.
23783835|Somaclonal mutants with large grains were developed from an indica rice variety IR26 by in vitro culture in combination with -ray mutagenesis. The mutants are superior to the parent in 1000-kernel weight which increased by about 11-14g. Besides, the mutants also differ from the parent in many other characters such as plant height and days to heading. Test-cross with cytoplasmic male sterile line Zhenshan 97A showed that the mutants retained fertility-restoring ability and the hybrids performed better than the leading local hybrid rice of similar maturity. The increased grain size of the mutants was not resulted from chromosomal ploidy change. Genetic analyses indicated a quantitative nature of the kernel weight with a broad sense heritability of 80.16%. The high kernel weight is partially dominant over low one. The increased kernel weight of the mutants resulted primarily from the increase of grain width and grain thickness.
23786155|Different traits related to grain quality (thousand kernel weight, starch, protein, lysine and -glucan contents) have been assessed on 49 naked barley accessions, belonging to six different botanical varieties and originated from three genebanks. The accessions were grown during three consecutive years in the experimental fields of the Institute of Barley at Karnobat, Bulgaria. The relationships existing between the different quality traits were analysed. The effect of climatic factors on the different components of quality was also studied, by considering the variation across years. Accessions were compared by taking into account their origin. Finally, some accessions with high protein, lysine or -glucan content, were listed to be used in breeding programs.
23784270|Known inbred maize lines and sorghum species were inoculated by three different isolates of maize infecting potyviruses, "Z" (maize dwarf mosaic virus A strain, MDMV-A); "T" (sugarcane mosaic virus maize B strain, SCMV-MB) and "D" (sugarcane mosaic virus A straian, SCMV-A). 1. Majority of maize lines, 0h509A, 0h43, N20, Pa32 A554, A634, A635, A665, B73, B84, Mo17, W64A, W117, W153R) were susceptible to all the there virus strains. 2. Lines 0h514, CG1, Ky66:2500 and Pa 405 found to be resistant to the three virus strains. 3. Breeding lines N67, Va35, A375, A641 and CM105 were resistant to MDMV-A but susceptible to infections of SCMV-MB and SCMV-A. 4. M14, 0h41, A632 and B14A lines were SCMV-MB resistant. 5. The most pathogen virus among the three isolates was the unidentified "D" isolate type, identified as SCMV-A strain. 6. Sorgham pecies and varieties were more susceptible to the infection of potyviruses than maize lines. The most characteristic symptoms of infections were developed in johnsongrass (Sorghum halepense). This species was resistant to SCMV-MB, produced characteristic mosaic symptoms after infection of MDMV-A and white streaks in the case of SCMV-A isolate.
23789316|Seedling (juvenile) resistance to 4 diseases was studied in 452 Ae. tauschii samples from VIR World Collection. Eight accessions were highly resistant to leaf rust and they likely have gene for resistance Lr41. Rust from their naturally infected leaves was nonpathogenic on 25 wheat varieties that evidently indicates to the existence of the causal agent of leaf rust specialized to Ae. tauschii. Two samples possess high resistance to dark-brown leaf spot blotch; level of resistance was not changed after 9 continuous subcultivation of artificial B. sorokiniana population on leaves. Six samples were classified as resistant after inoculation with mixture of 7 Stagonospora nodorum isolates, but as susceptible to single isolate of the pathogen. All samples were susceptible to common root rot. Usefulness of selected Ae. tauschii samples for introgression hybridization to transfer juvenile resistance into bread wheat is discussed.
23782804|Structural variations of chromosomes occuring during the callus culture of Triticum aestivum L. were examined. Structural changes of chromosome includes deletions, translocations, dicentric and acentric fragments and increased with advanced culture generations. A new variant karyotype with acrocentric chromosome was observed in the first culture generation. The possible origination of acrocentric chromosome has been traced out with the help of modified Giemsa banding technique. The study revealed that chromosomes were broken in the interstitial region and not in the centromeric region.
90003110|The aim of my paper is, to present the problems produced by terrain forming (anthropogenic geomorphologic) effects of quarrying. A further aim is to present the restoration/reclamation theory and practical work for the deserted/disused quarries, give an account of opportunities for after-use, and definition of project proposals. There are many cases when an area can be used in several ways at the same time or considering the purposes its use can be successful by subsequent methods.
90003370|Both for economic considerations and risk assessment it is essential to quantify abiotic stress conditions and evaluate their impact on yield for a given environment or for possible scenarios. We applied simulation modeling to quantify stress by its level, time, duration and dynamics on irrigated tomato culture. The dynamics of photosynthetic response function to (1) soil water stress (expressed as daily values of the ratio of actual and potential transpiration), (2) nitrogen availability (leaf C/N ratio) and (3) temperature stress, as well as to their combined effect was determined. Sudden events of high temperature, transient water deficiencies and gradually ongoing N depletion restricted tomato growth. Sensitivity of the system decreased in late development and response functions differed between the soils.
23785333|The dwarf mutant line of hexaploid triticale was induced using seeds of tall triticale strain KS-50 treated with N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea. The effect of the mutant gene reducing the culm length by about 70 % is comparable with the most severe affecting genes Rht3 and Rht10 in wheat. This mutant line is characterised by a compact spike. It was proved that the culm length in this mutant line is determined by a single partially dominant gene and the spike length by a complete dominant gene. It seems that these two genes are completely linked, or by action of the mutagen only one gene with a different pleiotropic effect on individual characters was changed. The mutant line was shown to have reduced yield caused by shrivelling seeds, so that this mutation will probably be of little use in breeding.
23786108|N-uptake was studied in weighing lysimeters in a 60 000 plants per hectare plant stand. Five maize hybrids were examined for transpiration, water utilization, N-uptake and its distribution in plants. After harvest the plant parts were separated and dried until constant weight was achieved. Though hybrid Pi RSC 3732 transpired most water, because of high dry matter yield, its water utilization was also the most favourable. Among plant parts the grain contained most N. Its values were between 1.7 and 4.13 g. The best physiological and agronomic efficiency was calculated for Pi RSC 3732. The hybrid Sabrina 3707 transpired the most water (20.19 kg) per 1 g of N absorbed. The amount of N -uptake calculated per 1 kg of transpired water was between 49.72 and 82.93 mg. There were no significant differences between the N/P ratios of the whole plants and grain. The lowest N/P ratios of the whole plants and grain were at hybrids Pi RSC 3732 (4.18 and 4.81) and the highest at hybrid Szentesi 212 (6.10 and 5.88).
90002741|Maize (
23785269|Superoxide dismutase (SOD, E.C.1.15.1.1) converts superoxide to hydrogen peroxide, therefore important in prevention of oxygen toxicity produced by several environmental stresses. In the present work, the effect of water deficit on the activity of SOD isoenzymes in roots and shoots of 10 day-old seedlings of seven wheat cultivars was studied. Bread wheat varieties showed different responses, while a general decrease in the SOD isoenzyme activity was observed in a durum variety. The obtained data suggest that: i. Under similar stress conditions, mitochondrial and cytosolic SOD isoenzymes respond differently, ii. Drought stress may increase isoenzyme activity of SOD in the tolerant and adaptive varieties, while causing a decrease in the sensitive varieties.
90002632|Wheat is a most important crop without which human nutrition is unimaginable. Along with fertiliser, variety and other cultivation elements an important role in the amount of the yield is played by pests, above all by aphids, which reduce the quality of the grain and also transmit BYDV. The most dangerous barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) vector in Croatia is the species
23783671|In grain sorghum, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, two commercial hybrids, three improved lines, five parents of hybrids; five genetic stocks in different cytoplasms and one facultative apomict were studied for their suitability for callus induction. Induction of embryogenic callus was attempted by culturing five types of explants: mature whole seeds; scutella from mature soaked/germinated seeds; shoot portions of young seedlings; root portions and immature inflorescences. Rapidly growing friable embryogenic callus was obtained on LS 2.5 medium in greater numbers from immature inflorescences followed by shoot portions but not from the rest of the explants.
23792276|Vernalization and photoperiod response genes play a significant role in the geographical adaptation, agronomic performance and yield potential of crops. Therefore, understanding the distribution pattern and allelic diversity for vernalization and photoperiod genes are important in any wheat breeding program. In this study, we screened 63 bread wheat cultivars and 7 bread wheat landraces from Turkey for photoperiod (Ppd-D1) and vernalization genes (Vrn-A1, Vrn-B1, Vrn-D1 and Vrn-B3) using diagnostic molecular markers. The photoperiod insensitive dominant allele, Ppd-D1a, was present in 60% of wheat cultivars and 42% of landraces, whereas, all other genotypes carried the photoperiod sensitive allele Ppd-D1b as recessive allele. Twenty-four cultivars and two landraces contained recessive alleles for all four VRN loci, whereas 39 wheat cultivars and 6 landraces contained one or more dominant VRN alleles. The highest percentage of Turkish wheat cultivars contained the dominant Vrn-B1 allele followed by Vrn-D1 and Vrn-A1. Information for vernalization and photoperiod alleles in Turkish germplasm will facilitate the planning and implementation of molecular markers in wheat breeding programs. This information will be helpful to develop elite wheat cultivars carrying suitable vernalization and photoperiod alleles with higher grain yield potential and better quality suitable for different production environments through marker assisted selection.
23784038|Organ specific regulation of the Adh1 gene was studied in liquid endosperm, mature scutellum and pollen grains of tetraploid corn. The results show that during kernel development the regulation of two allelic forms can be changed. The pollen analysis revealed that different regulatory processes act in sporophytic as well as in gametophytic ADH expression at the tetraploid level. Adh1-0 allele could not be detected in the mature scutellum of ADH tetraploid plant. The lack of the ADH enzyme activity did not influence the gametopohytic functions in the pollen grains.
23783713|Attempts were made to produce doubled haploids in three types of tetraploid triticale. The Hordeum bulbosum system and anther culture were applied to triticale types with the genome constitutions (AB)(AB)RR and DDRR and to F1 hybrids of these two types. Triticale DDRR were selected lines from hybrids of Triticum tauschii and Secale cereale. Twenty-three different combinations of tetraploid triticale lines and Hordeum bulbosum were crossed. Six combinations resulted in low seed set, but the seeds stopped their development in an early stage and a rescue of the embryos by embryo culture was not possible. The experiments with anther culture resulted in some green plants. It could be shown that anther culture technique is applicable to tetraploid triticale.
90003054|Plant density has a determining role in yield. In a favourable year, hybrids reach higher yields at higher plant densities as the reduction in the individual yield of plants due to the increase in plant density is smaller.
23786047|The combining ability studies made over environments (sowing dates) for nine characters in brown sarson using "93" line x tester set revealed both general combining ability (gca) and specific combining ability (sca) components were significant for all the evaluated characters, viz., plant height, main shoot length, number of primary branches, number of secondary branches, number of siliqua on main shoot, siliqua length, seeds per siliqua, 1000-seed weight and seed yield per plant. Both gca and sca effects were influenced by environments. The parents, Pusa Kalyani, BSH-1, DBS-1 and BSIK-1 having been observed as good general combiners for seed yield and other yield influencing traits also, offer the best possibilities of exploitation for the development of improved lines. The cross combination "BSIK-1  BSIK-2" and "BSC-199  BSH-1" were observed to be the best crosses and are expected to throw transgressive segregants and need exploitation in breeding programmes. Both additive and non-additive gene effects played role in the inheritance of different traits.
23780395|The importance of pre-germination of barley is considered in relation to harvesting conditions and other malting barley quality factors. A high incidence of pre-germinated corns (>5%) makes a barley unsuitable for malting. A number of methods for assessing pre-germination are available and their applicability varies with the severity of the problem. Methods based on the measurement of -amylase, which occurs only after germination has been initiated, are most suitable.
23787200|The old Hungarian wheat variety Bnkti 1201 was widely grown in Hungary mainly because of its outstanding breadmaking quality. In order to isolate and preserve the genes of this remarkable variety a cDNA library was created from the immature kernels of a selected line of Bnkti 1201.When the library was screened a large number of LMW glutenin-specific clones were isolated and of these eight genes were finally sequenced. The sequence alignments revealed several new LMW glutenin genes. The results obtained so far suggest that this old variety may carry many other unknown storage protein genes of either theoretical or commercial importance.
90003471|All of examined communities show the responses of biotic (namely the land use and weed invasions) and abiotic (river regulations) stress. The main aim of our research was to explore and characterize the typical grassland and forest communities of this area. All of these communities show several anthropogene disturbances because of effects of agriculture and partly river regulations. Nevertheless these fragments and spots are valuable for nature protection.The next communities were examined: 1.
90002695|Cultivating woody energy crops on arable land opens up new possibilities for agriculture in Hungary. In Gdll, through experiments with different willow species, a technique adapted to cultivation site was elaborated. In our research, we examined the impact of various willow species and different forms of nutrients (compost, artificial fertilizer, and control without nutrient) on the development of plants as well as on soil condition characteristics. In the present study our results for heavy metal content are introduced based on measurements taken from the soil and the plants. Our research results indicate that the heavy metal content of plants is influenced by the form of the nutrient the soil was treated with; however, at the same time, for certain heavy metals our results varied. Nevertheless, results obtained for the dry substance were always below the critical pollution threshold limit.
23788179|The aims of the study were the optimisation of genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) and the use of a GAA satellite sequences as a fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probe to discriminate Aegilops biuncialis and wheat chromosomes. The application of genomic DNA from the diploid progenitors, Ae. umbellulata and Ae. comosa, as a probe with a blocking ratio of 1:200 resulted in the clear visualization of Ae. biuncialis chromosomes. Based on the strong hybridization signals of the PCR-amplified GAA satellite sequences it was possible to identify chromosomes 1U, 2U, 4U and 5U of Ae. umbellulata. The improved GISH and GAA idiogram presented here allow the Ae. biuncialis chromatin to be traced in more detail during chromosome-mediated gene transfer to wheat.
90003175|In this report we have studied ethylene evolution by leaves and fatty acid composition of coleoptiles of resistance and susceptible to
23783941|Stem rust disease, caused by Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici occurred sporadically every year in Hungary during 1989-1991. The main races, identified by Stakman method, in the population were the races 1, 11, 34, and 218. Races 17, 21 and 126 were in the population in traces. The stem rust population was stable during this period, new race was not found. From the above races 24 pathotypes have been identified by 23 single gene lines at this time. The all cultures were virulent on lines with gene Sr7b. Single genes for resistance Sr22, Sr24, Sr31, Sr32, Sr33 and Sr36 were effective to all survey cultures tested. Among these resistance genes are Sr31 and Sr36 the most important resistance genes for Hungarian wheat varieties.
23787569|Two cycles of simultaneous selection for stalk rot resistance and grain yield have been conducted in the FAOSYNFR1B population synthesized from Eastern European maize germplasm. The objectives of this study were: 1) to compare expected genetic gain from S1 and HSI methods of selection in the second cycle and 2) to evaluate improvement (gain) of stalk rot resistance and grain yield in the population per se associated with two cycles of selection. In the first cycle of selection, S1 method and HSI method (using an inbred tester) were combined (S1-HSI) to produce C1 population. In the second cycle of selection the S1 and HSI methods were applied separately to produce C2(S1) and C2(HSI) populations, respectively. In 1996, the C0, C1, C2(S1), and C2(HSI) populations per se were evaluated at four locations in natural conditions and at one under artificial stalk infection. Combined S1-HSI method was successful in improving both stalk rot resistance and grain yield. In the second cycle, further improvement for stalk rot resistance was observed with a more favorable response for S1 method. Neither S1 nor HSI method, applied separately in the second cycle, were successful in improving grain yield. Therefore, combining of S1 and HSI methods of recurrent selection seems to be more effective way in simultaneous improvement of stalk rot resistance and grain yield in maize.
23783777|Eleven maize inbred lines and their hybrids were mechanically inoculated with maize dwarf mosaic Potyvirus A strain (MDMV-A) and sugarcane mosaic Potyvirus strains (SCMV-MB and SCMV-A). Inbreds GK210 and GK211 were moderately and highly susceptible to all the three virus strains. Inbred GK202 became infected in 73% of the inoculated plants by SCMV-MB and 34% by SCMV-A, but the symptoms appeared 5-8 days later than in GK210 and GK211. In the case of other inbred lines the rate of diseased plants was lower than 10%. In the F1 crosses of susceptible line (GK211) x resistant lines (GK201-GK209) the disease incidence ranged from 0 to 88%. If we take into consideration only the maximum disease incidence estimated 20 days after inoculation, the inheritance of virus resistance changed from the complete dominance of resistance to the complete dominance of susceptibility. In hybrids, which became infected at a higher level, the symptoms appeared 5-8 days later than in the case of their susceptible parental line GK211. Because of a longer incubation period these hybrids could not be regarded as susceptible as inbred GK211. The use of Kuhn and Smith's (1977) disease index values provided more precise information for evaluating resistance. The index considered both the number of diseased plants and the rate of symptom development. Based on these index values the inheritance of virus resistance was largerly or partially dominant in the majority of inbred lines and only in a few cases was intermediate.
23786230|Resistance of 6 maize hybrids and 10 lines to sugarcane mosaic virus was tested under field and greenhouse conditions. In both types of tests maize plants were inoculated at two development stages, i. e. 3 to 4 leaves and 6 to 7 leaves and field trials were repeated at two sowing dates. Infection after different inoculation treatments was assessed as a percentage of plants with symptoms of virus infection 42 days after inoculation. An index proposed by KUHN and SMITH (1977) was also calculated. In all inoculation treatments statistically highly significant differences were found between the maize materials tested both in the percentage of infected plants and in Kuhn index. Inoculation under greenhouse conditions at the stage of 3 to 4 leaves was the most effective, in spite of that there were strong correlation coefficients between the inoculation techniques. It is recommended to perform resistance tests in the greenhouse and to complement them with field tests. Of all the materials tested the least infected in all the tests were the following hybrids: Cesil, Cemax and line CE2032. In contrast, lines CE2013 and CE813I were most infected.
90003079|A considerable part of the salt affected soils of Slovakia occurs in the Danube Lowland. Results of monitoring confirm that the formation of salt affected soils is also in progress at present, particularly both by accumulation of water-soluble salts within the profile - i.e. through the process of salinization, as well as through binding sodium in the colloidal soil complex - i.e. the process of alkalization. Potential danger of spreading of the salt affected soils is realistic here especially in the case of climatic changes towards warmer and drier conditions, but also due to antropogeneous effects. Especially crop varieties and species with a quite low salt resistance are grown here. Into the future, from mentioned results, the need of cropping pattern innovation from high sensitive crops to salinity of soil on more resistant crops on salts.
90002316|The common wheat line, YW243, developed in our research group, was tested for the resistances of barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV), powdery mildew (Pm) and stripe rust in field, and was analyzed by molecular markers for convenient trace of the resistant genes in breeding. Genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) analysis and sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) assay further demonstrated that YW243 was a homozygous multiple translocation line of
23789895|Growing resistant wheat cultivars is considered to be an efficient and environmentally safe approach in reducing damage caused by leaf rust disease. Among the numerous leaf rust resistance genes of wheat, Lr52 is a very effective one with a broad spectrum resistance. The objective of this study was to identify and map molecular markers closely linked to the Lr52 resistance gene. Out of 280 RAPD, 44 SSR and 8 STS markers tested, three showed close linkage to the Lr52. In our study, one SSR marker (Xwmc149) showed a close linkage (11.3 cM) to the Lr52 gene. Another SSR (Xgwm234) and an STS (Xtxw200) markers, having close linkage to a recently identified leaf rust resistance gene found in PI 289824, also showed a close linkage (7.2 and 3.6 cM, respectively) to the Lr52. Matchings in the mapping distances of these markers linked to these resistance genes still remain open the possibility that the gene found in PI 289824 is identical to the Lr52, or simply this locate very close to it.
23786225|The set of durum wheat-T. dicoccoides substitution lines and their parents were investigated under high and low NPK nutrition to identify effects of the wild A and B chromosomes on the efficiency of nitrogen and phosphorus utilization (NUE, PUE), water use efficiency (WUE) and tolerance (T) of durum wheat to reduced nutrition during its vegetative growth. The dicoccoides chromosomes of the 1st, 4th and 5th homeologous groups were found to show the strongest influence on the nutrient efficiency and response to NPK shortage. Chromosomes 1A, 1B and 5B of T. dicoccoides might carry genes that exhibited the most positive effects on NUE and PUE of the durum wheat, while 4A, 4B and 5A - genes that decreased the efficiency. Except of some positive (5B, 1A) and negative (2A, 4A, 6B) effects on WUE under optimal nutrition, dicoccoides chromosomes did not significantly alter WUE under stress. Results suggest that factors located on the chromosomes DIC-5A and DIC-7A might increase the tolerance of durum wheat to low NPK, while chromosome DIC-1A might carry factors that suppress the tolerance.
23792377|A study was undertaken to determine the genetics of corn leaf aphid (CLA) resistance in barley under controlled conditions with artificial inoculation at adult plant stage. Inheritance of CLA resistance was investigated in five resistant barley genotypes (EB921, EB2507, Manjula, DL529 and K144) in crosses with susceptible parent Alfa93 in F 1 , F 2 , F 3 and backcross(BCF1) generations. The aphid inoculation was done using the brush method as well as the detached leaf method. Individual plants were classified in resistant, moderately resistant, susceptible and highly susceptible categories base on number per shoot as well as multiplication of CLA on any of the fresh, young leaf. The plants scored as resistant or moderately resistant were observed twice more at 10 days interval to confirm their reaction. Resistance was governed by a single dominant gene in EB921, DL529 and K144, while it was monogenic recessive in Manjula and EB2507. These diverse sources may be used in breeding for CLA resistance in barley improvement programme.
90002911|Maize (Zea mays) is the leading culture according to sow area in Croatia. Herbicide products based on atrazine (2-chloro-4-ethylamino-6-isopropylamino-1,3,5-triazine) are most widely used for weed control in corn crops. Therefore the aim of this study was to determine the concentration and leaching of atrazine in drainage water in four different variants of pipe drainage spacing (15 m, 20 m, 25 m and 30 m). The study was conduced on the Jelenscak reclamation test field, on hydroameliorated Gleyic Podzoluvisol during four years. Atrazine extracted from the samples of drainage waters was determinated by gas chromatography. Data were statistically processed by means of analysis of variance. The concentrations of the atrazine recorded in drainage waters varied in a wide range, with maximum values recorded soon after its application and at the start of higher drainage discharge. The results indicate that maximal and average concentrations of atrazine in drainage waters exceeded the maximum allowable concentration (MAC) for single herbicides in drinking water (0,1 g l
23783102|Components of incomplete resistance to powdery mildew of fourteen Ethiopian land races of barley were investigated in three experiments in seedling stage and in two experiments in adult plant stage in the glasshouse. In the seedling stage the number of colonies produced per cm2 leaf area (CD) showed the highest correlation with the number of spores produced per cm2 leaf area (SA) which is considered most representative for the resistance level. The spore production per colony (SC) showed a very low or even a negative correlation with CD. In the third, concluding experiment several land races showed significant different values for different components. These land races may have a different resistance mechanism governed by different resistance genes. Recombination of these genes into one genotype may also raise the resistance level. In the adult plant stage some land races, susceptible in seedling stage, showed a high level of resistance. This adult plant resistance is considered a valuable addition to the incomplete resistance expressed in younger plant stages.
23789299|A discussion on yield component analysis is presented in the paper. The discussion regards such issues as inappropriateness of a linear model in application to yield component analysis, correct measurement of yield and its components, sequential and nonsequential development of the components, and a choice of a statistical analysis method to provide a view on a relationship between yield and its components.
23783741|Over 50 dwarf mutants were obtained after mutagenic treatment of winter hexaploid secondary Triticale (strain 51/59). Inheritance of the length of culm, ear and last internode was investigated in two selected mutants. Results of crosses of some other dwarf mutants with various lines and varieties of Triticale indicated that heterosis can be observed in most observed characters.
23786175|Ochratoxins are fungal secondary metabolites which exhibit nephrotoxic, teratogenic, immunosuppressive and carcinogenic effects on animals and humans. This review deals with the chemistry, biosynthesis, metabolism and mode of action of ochratoxin A. Possible strategies for controlling ochratoxin levels in feeds and foods, and preventing toxic effects of ochratoxin A in animals and humans are also discussed.
90002955|The content of releasable macronutrients in Dystric Cambisols and their relation to nutrition of some herb species was studied on locality Hlinky (East Slovakia). The highest amounts of nutrients were found in surface humus horizons  several times higher in comparison with mineral soil layers (Ca 10-64 times, Mg 2.7-22, K 1.4-4.4 and P 0.8-2.8). The most abundant nutrients in all herb species were nitrogen (control stand 14100-30100 mg kg
90002934|Effect of sulphur fertilization on the chemical features of the tested soil and of the baking quality parameters of winter wheat and correlations between them were examined. It was established that the CHNS contents of the flour were in close positive correlation to the flour quality parameters generally used in the practice.
90003025|The impact of land-use change on hydraulic properties (hydraulic conductivity, saturated hydraulic conductivity, and bypassing ratio) of wettable and hydrophobic (water repellent) soils was estimated in Macov and Sekule, respectively. Both grass and maize formed more porous soil in Macov, with nearly the same hydraulic properties for both plant covers. Both grass and pine formed less porous soil in Sekule by hydrophobic coatings of soil particles. The hydraulic properties, measured in both sites of this locality, were influenced more by the changes in soil water content than in plant cover.
90003312|Reduced tillage practices have been adopted worldwide in agriculture. The implementation of conservation tillage, leaving crop residues at the soil surface following the harvest of crops is essential to protect soils vulnerable to erosion, however these practices have contributed directly to the upsurge of Fusarium head blight of wheat and barley. While researchers have made significant progress in the identification and incorporation of genetic resistance, and in the identification and delivery of effective fungicides to cereal crops, Fusarium head blight remains a recalcitrant problem. It would seem that we can not reduce the threat of future Fusarium head blight epidemics without addressing the underlying origin of the problem,
90002853|The aim of this research was to investigate the effect of bentonite on the abundance of Collembola, soil enzyme activities and colony forming unit of some soil microbes in an agricultural field. We assume that these parameters could be good bioindicators of soil quality and changes in soils. The studied area is located in the North-Eastern part of Hungary, the Nyrsg region, mostly covered with acid sandy soil. Five different amounts of bentonite (0, 5, 10, 15 and 20 t ha
90002972|The objective for sugar beet production in Hungary is given nowadays, i. e. increasing the sugar yield per hectare, ensuring the stability, approaching the European standard and last but not least improving the quality. The quality of the yield primarily depends on ecological factors (soil, climate), variety and inner factors, which is the complexity of the genetics of a given plant culture (for e.g. the protein content of the grain, the sugar content of the sugar beet). However to a certain extent, some external factors can also modify it, such as agrotechnical procedures, especially nutrient supply. The results of the leaf analysis have been used to look for correlation between the element content and the quality parameters of sugar beet.
23784224|Freshly-harvested wheat (Triticum aestivum) seed exhibit post-harvest dormancy which is essentially lost following three to eight weeks storage at room temperature. The effects of mechanical scarification, gibberellic acid, humic acid, high and low temperatures on the germination of freshly-harvested (dormant) wheat (T. aestivum) seeds were evaluated. The experiments were conducted in a randomized complete block design with four replicates per treatment. Mechanical scarification and cold treatment were the most efficient method of breaking post-harvest dormancy by improving the germination rate from 23% to over 95% six days after germination. This was followed by the Gibberellic acid. Humic acid had no significant effect on the germination of seed of all the cultivars tested. The effect of heat treatment at 45 C varied from one cultivar to another. The optimum temperature for germination of after-ripened seeds which have lost their dormancy during storage was about 25 C. Comparison of different temperature regimes showed a steady decrease of germination of these seeds with the increase of temperature from 25 to 30, 35, 40, and 45C. Their germination was completely inhibited at 45 C.
90003447|Our polifactorial rape research was carried out at Ltkp Experimental Station of University of Debrecen AMTC, 15 km away from Debrecen in 2007-2008. The aim was to study the unique effect and the interactive effect of more factors. In our research we applied three different methods of tillage: ploughing, loosening and disking. We could observe big differences between tillage methods in point of yield. Plots of loosening show a much better average yield than plots of disking and ploughing. We experienced the biggest differences in point of yield in the case of sowing August 24 2007 with different tillage plots. Not even the plot with the highest average reached the limit of 4 tons, due to the unusually rainy weather, the high rate of lodging and the harvest loss caused by this. The biggest amount of yield was experienced in the case of sowing of 24
23779261|Two hours pre-soaking of seeds with 0.005 to 0.01 percent concentrations of vitavax efficiently controlled the activity of the fungi that were thriving in or on the seeds without casting any harmful effect on viability. Rather vitavax pre-treated seeds exhibited higher percentage of germination and metabolism of the host plant, viz., nitrogen, total free amino acids and total carbohydrate. Thus pre-soaking of seeds in vitavax solution is recommended as an excellent control measure for seed borne fungal diseases of Jowar.
90002950|High rates of farmyard manure (FYM) change chemical and physical properties of soil top layer. These changes can last for years and lead not only to yield increases but presumably to higher N
23782814|Parents with different generations ( F1,F2, B1 and B2) of two crosses of macaroni wheat viz; Malvaraj x Maxicale-75 and Malvika x Maxicale-75 were used for estimation of gene effects for gluten content. A comparison of generation means indicated that F1 was intermediate between two parents. Both additive and non-additive components of genetic effects were important for this character. Simple additive effects were responsible for inheritance of gluten in Malvaraj x Maxicale-75.
23781362|Morphological characteristics provide the basis upon which phylogenetic divisions are generally constructed. Genera in which polyploid series exist often contain species of hybrid origin, and the parents of these allopolyploids are usually recognized on the expectation that the hybrid (and the derived amphiploid) will be intermediate in its morphological characteristics. Recently it has become possible to produce intergeneric hybrids with greater facility, and in many cases it appears that characteristics of generic rank may be suppressed. There are two obvious consequences of this observation. First, the morphology of a hybrid (and its amphiploid) may not equally reflect the genetic contribution of both parents. Second, a greater range of potential donors must be considered when the putative parents of natural amphiploids are being sought.
90003070|Soil organic matter supply is mainly derived from plant litter. Waring & Schlesinger (1985) found that plant litter decomposition provides 69-87 % of nutrients required for forest development. The global climate change caused local changes in Hungary (Vrallyay, 2007), which can influence the litter production of the natural vegetation. In the frame of Skfkt DIRT (Detritus Input and Removal Treatments) project the effect of litter amount was studied on the activity of soil microbes (Fekete et al., 2007), and speed of organic matter decomposition applying different kind of wood, leaf, root and different amount of plant litter. In this paper we discuss the degree of decomposition of leaf litter and cellulose cotton wool placed in the soil in the respect of different litter treatment plots.
23782851|From crosses of Avena prostrata (2n=14) with A. macrostachya (2n=28) one hybrid plant was obtained, which was propagated by in vitro cloning. Studies in meiosis (metaphase I) of the hybrid revealed the presence of complete haploid parental genomes and provided further evidence of an autotetraploid genome constitution of A. macrostachya. Though allosyndetic chromosome pairing occurred its frequency proved to be very low. The hybrid was compared with its parents with regard to morphology and mildew resistance.
90002859|Raising of orchards and vineyards, as economically very lucrative and interesting plant growths, is even more appealing, through the subsidies given by the government, through the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. The subsidies are given based on results of pedochemical analyses. These analyses lacking some important information, vital for land suitability, which is not corresponding enough with high investments for raising orchards and vineyards. Proposed land suitability model will identify previously missing critical attributes for land suitability, such as altitude, inclination and exposition and soil nutrients limiting values. So, the base of the land suitability for potential subsidy applicants will be the map of the area with all relevant information needed for educate decision about sustainability of orchard or vineyard establishment.
23787084|Two winter wheat varieties (Alba, cultivated in Poland and usually having high biomass production, and the Hungarian variety Martonvsri 15, which has better drought tolerance) were grown in two phytotron chambers at 375 and 700 mol mol1 air CO2 concentration with three different levels of water supply, to evaluate the interactive effects of elevated CO2 concentration and drought stress on yield components and leaf photosynthetic activity. Elevated CO2 concentration had positive effects on the development of the plants and decreased the negative effects of drought, while the development of the more drought-tolerant variety Martonvsri 15 was hindered by elevated CO2 concentration at high water supplies. Grain yield was mainly affected by drought. The negative effects of water stress were partially compensated by elevated CO2 concentration. Gas exchange changed in different ways, depending of the duration of the treatments: low water supplies decreased the net photosynthesis, transpiration and stomatal conductivity of both varieties, while elevated CO2 concentration decreased them in the beginning then increased them by the 10th week of treatment.
90002872|The response of maize hybrids of doubled haploid (DH) origin to different locations and soils was examined over two years. The performance of twenty-two hybrid combinations was compared to that of two standard hybrids with commercial value in order to investigate how hybrids of DH origin responded to changes in various environmental factors (soil status, water and rainfall supplies, heat stress). The results indicated that the individual genotypes exhibited diverse responses in different years and at different locations. In general, the majority of hybrids performed below the level of the standard mean, though it was possible to find a DH line that resulted in a hybrid capable of producing yields equivalent to that of the standards. The significance of these results is that the DH lines were developed via an
23782811|The utility of two techniques for compressing generation intervals in spring wheat were evaluated. The technique based on inducing germination in intact immature seeds (Mukade Method) was superior to the embryo culture method in terms of overall success rate (96% vs 88%) and ease of operation. Both techniques gave generation intervals of about 70 days thus allowing up to five generations per year. Whether these techniques constitute selection pressures for low dormancy and susceptibility to pre-harvest sprouting needs to be investigated further.
23783884|This study was conducted to determine the effect of growth periods, harvest index, and biomass on grain yield of wheat and to estimate the inheritance of these characters. In this research, the highest value of heritability was found for plant height, while the lowest value of heritability was found for grain yield. The coefficient of variability for biomass and grain yield was higher than other traits. Grain yield was positively correlated with grain filling period, plant height, biomass, harvest index, while it was negatively correlated with days to heading. As the results of this study it was concluded that the selection criterion for improving the grain yield of common wheat under Mediterranean climatic conditions should include high biomass yield with high harvest index.
23786217|Monosomic lines representing the A and B genomes of 'Chinese Spring' were used as female parental forms for the chromosomal localisation of genes controlling purple grain colour. The male parent was a near-isogenic purple derivative of 'Saratovskaya 29'.The complementary genes Pp2 and Pp1 were located on chromosomes 6A and 7B, respectively.
23787561|The influence of individual Thinopyrum elongatum chromosomes on callus induction and morphogenic ability of in vitro cultivated immature embryos of wheat/Thinopyrum elongatum addition lines was studied. An euploid form of cultivar Chinese Spring of Triticum aestivum (2n=42), AABBDD, seven disomic addition lines of Chinese Spring with chromosomes of Thinopyrum elongatum (2n=14) EE, and the amphidiploid Chinese Spring/Thinopyrum elongatum (2n=56), AABBDDEE, were used as donor plants. Immature 14 days old embryos were in vitro cultivated. A relatively high number of calli were issued in embryocultures of all studied lines without significant variations among them. Relatively lower callus induction rate occurred only in the addition line containing 5E chromosome. Substantial differences were observed between the lines in respect to the number of both initiated morphogenic calli and regenerants obtained. The highest number of morphogenic calli and regenerants was obtained in cultures of lines containing the Thinopyrum elongatum chromosomes 1E and 6E and the lowest one  in the 4E addition line. The data suggest that the effect of Thinopyrum elongatum chromosomes could be due to existence of homeoalleles in those chromosomes, but the presence in Thinopyrum elongatum genome of genes and alleles affecting specifically in vitro response can not be excluded either.
90002318|Path analysis appears to be the best method in biological and agronomic studies to determine the major selection criteria. The objective of this study was to evaluate path coefficients both direct and indirect, for sweet corn. The research was carried out during 2003 and 2004 in Sanliurfa, Southeastern Turkey. Ten sweet corn genotypes were used as the crop materials. Fresh ear yield was statistically significant and positively correlated with single ear weight, ear length and ear diameter. Ear length gave a highest direct positive effect on fresh ear yield, followed by single ear weight. Plant height and stem diameter had negative direct effect on fresh ear yield. Direct effects of ear length, single ear weight, plant height and stem diameter on fresh ear yield were 42.3%, 31.3%, 31.0% and 17.7%, respectively. Path analyses revealed that the ear length and single ear weight as the primary; ear diameter, kernel number of ear and leaf number as the secondary characteristics that can be taken into consideration as the important yield components and selection criteria for sweet corn.
23781521|Spring wheat was grown in lysimeter and subjected to water stress at various development stages from tillering to grain formation. A reference crop was optimal supplied with water by weekly restoration of field capacity. The total dry matter production and total green area index of the crop during the growth period were reduced when introducing a water stress period and were only partly restored after terminating the stress by rewatering. For stem and leaves, respectively, a linear relationship between area index and dry matter per unit ground area was obtained. The final grain yield was reduced when subjecting the crop to water stress at any stage of development. When the stress was imposed in the early development stage late tillers developed subsequently. In terms of relative grain yield reduction the drought sensitivity was greatest in the period from tillering to jointing when only grain from normal tillers was considered. Including grain from late tillers the drought sensitivity was greatest in the period from shooting to heading. The late tillers ripened 2 weeks later than the normal tillers. The yield reduction was caused by combined effects of smaller number of ears per square meter, smaller number of grain per ear and lower 1000-grain weight. These findings may be of significance under conditions allowing late tillers to be included in the final harvest and where only a limited amount of water is available for irrigation purposes.
23783836|Six elite CIMMYT bread wheat genotypes Pavon 76, Seri M82, Opata M85, Mochis T88, Baviacora M93, and the advanced line Attila were evaluated for their response to in vitro tissue culture. Donor plants were grown at El Batan and CIANO experiment stations in Mexico in 1992. Immature embryos, about 1.0 mm in length, were excised and placed scutellum side up on callus initiation media. Basal N6 medium supplemented with dicamba (E1), MS medium containing 2,4D (E3), or MS medium containing 2,4D plus different amino acids (E5) was used for callus initiation and maintenance. Plant regeneration and rooting were achieved on basal MS medium with IAA and BAP. Embryogenic calli with regeneration potentials of 10-92% were obtained on E3 and E5 media; each embryo produced 5-50 plants. A total of 800 regenerated plants were transferred to pots in the greenhouse for evaluation and seed production. Of the regenerated plants, 85% were morphologically normal, reached full maturity, and produced seeds. Seeds (R1) of 360 plants regenerated from Mochis T88, Baviacora M93, and Attila were planted in the field. Field observations indicated that embryos cultured on E3 medium resulted in 29% of the progeny producing deviating plants, compared with 21% of those grown on E5 medium. These results will form the basis for future efforts aimed at transforming CIMMYT bread wheat varieties.
23780408|Drying of the wheat grain induces its germinability. In the field, germinability can set in before the grain as a whole has lost water. When the drying of the grain parts is examined, however, it is found that loss of water from the pericarp begins much earlier than in the remainder of the grain. Drying of the pericarp is correlated with the onset of germinability. The beneficial effect of drying, which renders a grain germinable and therefore susceptible to sprouting, is considered to be due to removal of pericarp inhibition.
23777753|This work presents the first results from application of the Pelshenke test to the product of the F2 plants and of the sedimentation test to the F3 generation. The estimation of genetic components shows the prevalence of additive genetic effects and the high heritability of the characters. The results confirm the possibility of carrying out an efficacious selection for quality in our material, mainly consisting of Italian varieties.
23786216|Low crossing affinity between alloplasmic rye forms and hexaploid triticale forms - 0.91% on average was reported. The F1 hybrids were of very low fertility from 0.33 to 4.25 grains per spike. These characteristics were due to meiotic disturbances - univalents and trivalents in diakinesis and metaphase I as well as micronuclei at tetrad stage. A stabilized tetraploid triticale form characterized by good fertility - over 42 grains per spike was selected in the segregating generation. Such hybrids showed to hold 14 rye and 14 wheat chromosomes. The following wheat chromosomes were present: 1B, 2B, 3B, 4A, 5A,6A, 7B.
23789295|The optimum number of crosses and progeny per cross in breeding self-fertilizing crops are determined by an approach based on maximization of selection response. The total selection response is obtained by adding the individual responses from the two steps of selection: selection between crosses and selection within crosses. Optimum numbers and sizes of crosses are determined by testing capacity, number of selected crosses, number of selected lines from each selected cross, heritability, and the ratio of cost per line and cost per cross. In the case `selection of the best line out of the best cross', the optimum number of crosses (1) exhibits maxima for increasing heritabilities (for any given fixed cost ratio and any total testing capacity), (2) increases with increasing total testing capacity (for any given fixed cost ratio and any heritability), (3) increases with increasing cost ratio (for any given fixed heritability and any total testing capacity), and (4) are larger for the calculation without cost constraints than for the calculation with cost constraints.
23789326|Croatian Baranja region contains soils with highly quality crop production properties, but the knowledge of the effects of reduced tillage systems is lacking. Our investigations were conducted under field conditions at Knezevo site chernozem in four replications. They included four soil tillage systems (CT: conventional tillage, with ploughing up to the 30 cm as a primary tillage; DS: diskharrowing up to the 15 cm; CH: chiselling up to the 30 cm + diskharrowing; NT: no-till seed drilling), both for winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) soybean (Glycine max L.) in crop rotation during three growing seasons (2002-2004). All measured crop properties were strongly affected by different seasons, especially with the season of 2003 with extreme drought. Crop biomass in five growth stages for winter wheat showed that at the beginning DS and CH had stronger growth than CT and NT, but differences vanished toward final stages. Winter wheat grain yield achieved by reduced tillage systems was in average either higher (CH=5.59 t ha1) or not different (5.38 and 5.23 t ha1 for DS and NT, respectively) than CT (5.28 t ha1). Soybean growth was consistently the most impaired at NT system, especially at the full maturity stage, where also DS and CH had lower biomass than CT. Soybean grain yield confirmed biomass results, since NT (2.11 t ha1) had always the lowest yield, when compared with other tillage systems (CT=2.88, CH=2.77 and DS=2.72 t ha1). Our conclusion is that within the Croatian Baranja environmental conditions is possible to replace soil tillage based on the ploughing for winter wheat and soybean with reduced soil tillage systems based on disking and chiselling, whereas no-till system still needs solution which will address drought-related problems.
23786173|The choice of recurrent selection procedure depends mostly on the genetic constitution of populations undergoing selection. We studied components of genetic variance of grain yield, ear length, 1000-kernel weight, ear row number, kernel depth, 10-kernel length and height of ear of the medium late synthetic maize population 316PO2. This population includes Lancaster Surecrop germplasm (about 70%) and exotic germplasm (30%). It should be an important source of new maize inbred lines. Except for ear row number, most of the total genetic variability of the other traits was determined by additive gene action. We estimated negative value of variance due to dominance deviations for kernel depth. The average degree of dominance was at the level of superdominance except for kernel depth and 10-kernel length. Grain yield and 1000-kernel weight had higher values of narrow sense heritability (hn2=0,56, hn2=0,5) than expected. Ear row number(hn2=0,45) had lower. In the case of kernel depth, we couldn't been able to estimate narrow sense heritability. The largest expected genetic gain from selection for grain yield was obtained for half-sib recurrent selection.
90002690|The genotype-by-environment interaction (GEI), which is the differential response of genotypes to the varied environmental conditions, results from the genetic differences among varieties. The statistical analysis should provide estimates for parameters that indicate both how well genotypes perform on average across the environmental range and how well they perform in specific environmental conditions. AMMI models separates genotype, environment and genotype-environment interaction before applying singular value decomposition to GE for least-squares, low dimensional visualization, and they are one of foremost statistical methods in multi environment trials (MET).
23786780|Nitrate is the principal source of nitrogen in soil, but nitrite may also accumulate in the root zone under environmental stress conditions. Nitrite ion is an additional potential N source for wheat plants, but it proved to be a stress factor below pH 4.5. 1 mM nitrite nutrition reduced the elongation and dry matter accumulation of wheat roots at pH 4.0 as compared with those of plants growing in a culture solution containing 1 mM nitrate, but did not inhibit these parameters at pH 7.0. The activities of soluble and cell wall-bound peroxidase fractions of roots with guaiacol as substrate were increased significantly in all culture media at pH 4.0 as compared with those of plants growing at pH 7.0, but the effect of nitrite was much greater in the peroxidase fractions bound ionically or covalently to the cell wall. The changes in peroxidase activities coincide well with the significant inhibition of root elongation by nitrite nutrition at pH 4.0. The cell wall-bound isoenzymes of peroxidases may regulate the elongation growth of roots by decreasing the plasticity of the cell walls.
23788894|On the basis of the nitrogen balance studies it was shown, that even when nitrate leached into the deeper layers (or found in the soil profile) was subtracted in the balance calculations, the nitrogen balances became positive only after yearly application of 250 kg N/ha. It means that applying the BMP (Best Management Practice) in fertilizer calculation, i.e. environmentally friendly fertilizer recommendation system - based on the environmental circumstances, soil conditions and the plant nitrogen demand - only limited amounts of surplus nitrogen can be detected in the soil-water system after the growing season.
90003173|The incorporation of resistance into adapted cultivars is the best long term approach to limit losses in yield and quality due to Fusarium head blight (FHB). In order to broaden the genetic base of resistance to FHB, 188 accessions of winter
23777707|A hybrid of Triticum aestivum  T. longissimum with a high frequency of chromosome association is described. Thus T. longissimum is now known to have a range of genotypes similar to T. speltoides affecting chromosome pairing in hybrids with T. aestivum. The presence of the genes affecting chromosome pairing in hybrids must be taken into account when assigning genomic formulae to polyploids in the genus.
23790032|This paper presents the results of a study on the estimation of drought impact on fluctuation yield cereal crops in Central Bohemia. Historical climate and crop yields data for the period of 47 years (19612007) have been integrated into an agrometeorological database. The objective of this paper was to determine the drought impact on yield of winter and spring cereals crops on an example for the Central Bohemian region. According to crops variability models the most of low yielding years (from 3 to 5 cases) were noticed at the beginning of the 1960s and 1970s, reaching their highest points in the decade of 19912000 (from 3 and 8 cases). In the case of the most serious crop failures in grain production in the Central Bohemian region (1964, 1976, 2000, 2003), droughts were responsible. In agreement with the developed model, the drought impact was associated with cereals detrended yield being smaller than $y^{(T)}_ {i}$  0.5. A year has the following types of drought impact: yield detrended of 0.5  $y^{(T)}_ {i}$  is a low drought effect;   $y^{(T)}_ {i}$ > 1.5 is a middle drought effect and $y^{(T)}_ {i}$  1.5 means a high drought effect.
23782887|Thirty eight accessions of common wheat (Triticum aestivum), with hairy leaves, were studied regarding attack by the saddle gall midge (Haplodiplosis equestris) in a field experiment with natural infestation. All accessions were heavily infested and differences in density of the leaf hairs did not result in differences in infestation.
90003096|Potassium bioavailability was studied in a loamy sand soil in the root environment of maize, red clover, spinach and curled lettuce crops differed in root acquisition efficiencies. Spinach and lettuce had the longest roots, while maize crop accumulated the highest amount of biomass in its root system. Bioavailability increased differently to the crops with increasing K supply. Both crop species and increasing K fertilization markedly affected on root acquisition efficiency (KRE: mg shoot K per unit root mass). Significant differences were detected among the crops affecting on NH
23787574|The effect of potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KH2PO4) on callus induction and plant regeneration from callus cultures of indica rice (Oryza sativa cultivar Pusa Basmati-1) was investigated. Callus was induced on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 11.31 M 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and subsequent plant regeneration was obtained on MS medium containing 2.68 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 8.87 M 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP). Both the induction and the regeneration media were supplemented with different levels of KH2PO4 (0 to 12.50 mM). The level of KH2PO4 in the induction medium influenced the percent water content of the callus. KH2PO4 was found to be essential for plant regeneration as no shoot regeneration occurred in the absence of KH2PO4. Highest number of shoots per explant was obtained when KH2PO4 level in the callus induction and plant regeneration medium was 0.625 mM (half of MS level) and 1.25 mM (normal MS level) respectively. By making amendments and modifications of the KH2PO4 level in the induction medium, the regeneration increased 2.5 folds. Almost similar regeneration frequency was observed from callus induced on lower levels of KH2PO4. Regenerated shoots were rooted on MS medium supplemented with 2.68 M NAA. Rooted plantlets were transferred to soil where they survived and set seeds.
23786878|Fungicide testing in North Dakota showed significant increases in yields of spring wheat and significant reductions in FHB severity and DON levels with application at mid-anthesis. However, under epidemic conditions, levels of control observed have not matched those observed by other researchers (Mesterhazy and Bartok 1996), nor have levels of improvement always been great enough to result in economic return. Improved delivery methods and efficacy of products could improve consistency of results across environments. Registrations for heading application of propiconazole and tebuconazole are being pursued, and experimental products and new application techniques are being tested. Producers need increased flexibility in using fungicides to manage FHB, and leaf diseases such as Septoria.
90003251|Trichothecene concentrations were analysed in a bioassay with a liquid medium and six solid substrates inoculated with
23782934|Embryo culture delayed the development of vernalised plants of winter wheat (Avalon), oats (Solva) and triticale (Lasko). This was attributed to the stressing of plants during vernalisation of plants in tubes, and should be avoidable. Culturing excised embryos without subsequent vernalisation did not replace the vernalisation requirement in winter wheat or oats. Lasko triticale lacked vernalisation requirement and, in the absence of vernalisation, embryo and seed-derived plants were well developed and produced the highest grain yield in the experiment.
90003134|research on white mustard as indicator plants were carried out in the eighth year of the long term heavy metal load experiments (Al, As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Pb, Zn) initiated in 1994 at Kroly Rbert College. According to the results mercury, arsenic, and lead could not be found in the green sprouts of the plant in 2002. Hg and As quickly altered in the soil into a non-absorbable form. Lead, as indicated in previous research, remained in the roots of the plant and did not translocate into the plant organs. Data shows that the enrichment of Cd was significant. In the case of total element content we were able to prove a significant connection between the total zinc, copper, cadmium and chrome concentration of the soil and the corresponding metallic content of the plant. No significant connection could be proven between the total element content and the element content of the harvested plant with the exception of cadmium. While analysing the absorbable element content we found significant correlation between the soils element content and the element content of the rape sprouts in the case of aluminium and chrome. The absorbable element content and the plants element content at harvest did not show any significant correlation. Of the fenological and agronomical features we only examined the germinative-power (number of stems) and height. Data indicating toxicity were found only in the case of cadmium and chromium where all three treatments significantly reduced the number of mustard stems in the plots. Of the treatment combinations it was only the quality of the metals that significantly influenced the number of stems, significance could not be shown in the effects of the doses. We came to similar conclusions while examining the height of the mustard plants.
90002633|In Croatia, oilseed rape is cultivated on about 15 000 ha. Because of the production of biofuels the area of land devoted to rape will rise to as much as 100 000 ha. An increase in the area will lead to an increase in the number and the abundance of pests. The most significant oilseed rape pest is
23792339|The objectives of the study were to determine the extent of nitrate leaching and maize yields in four drainpipe spacing variants (15 m, 20 m, 25 m and 30 m). The study was carried out at an experimental reclamation field during a period of five years (growing seasons). Maize was grown as the trial crop and the same agricultural practices were applied in all drainpipe spacing variants in all trial years. Nitrogen fertilization rates varied in different trial years (from 145 kg/ha/year to 175 kg/ha/year). The results indicate that nitrate concentrations in drainage water exceeded the allowable values in a larger part of the year (four to seven months) in all drainpipe spacing variants and maximum values were from 18.15 mg.dm 3 (drainpipe spacing of 15 m in 1999/00) up to 34.71 mg.dm 3 (drainpipe spacing of 25 m in 2002/03). Quantity of nitrogen leached differed from year to year and corresponded to the total nitrogen added with fertilization and annual precipitation. Statistically significant higher maize yields were achieved in most years with the drainpipe spacing of 15 m compared to other drainpipe spacing variants.
23783083|During 100 years triticale has developed from a botanical curiosity into an economically interesting crop plant. The first fertile allopolyploid wheat x rye hybrids was created by Wilhelm RIMPAU in 1888. His results were published in 1891. The origin and the history of this triticale including its further development and treatment are described.
23787231|The wheat cultivars Siria and Alka were found to posses identical genes for resistance to Puccinia recondita f. sp. tritici. Heterogeneity in leaf rust response was detected within the cultivar Alka, with most plants displaying the same disease response as cv. Siria. Cultivars Siria and Alka, as well as other Europen cultivars postulated to possess Lr10 and Lr13, showed a similar response patterns to several Australian and European pathotypes of P. recondita f. sp. tritici. The infection types were in most cases considerably lower in studies with European isolates of P. recondita f. sp. tritici than in the studies with Australian isolates. Although this is likely to be at least in part due to differences in the environmental conditions under which tests were conducted and to different interpretations of infection types, it was concluded that it was mainly due to differences in the pathogenicity of the isolates of P. recondita f. sp. tritici used. The presence of Lr10 in cvs. Siria, Consort, Galahad, Hereward, Ortop, Trmie, Titlis, Encore, Rialto, Charger, Rapor, Shango, Danis, Pegaso as well as in Alka, was confirmed by a previously developed PCR-based STS marker based on Lrk10-6, a subfragment of a receptor-like kinase gene completely or tightly linked to Lr10. The confirmed presence of Lr10 in cv. Greif is consistent with findlings described earlier by Schachermayr et al. (1997).
23786174|Ochratoxins are mycotoxins produced by Aspergillus and Penicillium species. Ochratoxin contamination of cereal grains and other plant products is a serious health hazard throughout the world since ochratoxins exhibit a range of pharmacological effects on animals and humans. This review deals with ochratoxin producing organisms, ochratoxin detection methods, and occurrence and legislation of ochratoxins in foods and feeds.
90002819|Heavy metal release to the environment has been increasing continuously as a result of industrial activities and technological development and poses a significant threat to the environment, public and soil health (Cerbasi and Yetis, 2001). Contamination of agricultural soil with heavy metals is a major problem on industrial and defense related sites all over the world.
90003480|Tropospheric ozone is one of the most important constituent of photochemical smog. In Hungary, the bioindication of ozone has started in June 2007, using the ozone bioindicator clover clones (
90002864|The examination of silica microremains of plants species may lead us to form a better understanding of recent land use history of soils. Phytoliths  anorganic products of plant species  are taxa specific, therefore diagnostic of distinct anthropogenic impacts, such as cultivation of non-indigenous plants. Present study demonstrates that phytolith analysis is a suitable tool to detect various human impacts in recent times as well and not only in a palaeoecological context. A case study of a well-developed Luvisol from the Bakony Mountains provided good opportunity to understand how complex the
90003129|This works aim is predict the photosynthetic responses of forest floor cryptogam species to elevated atmospheric CO
23783723|Meiosis, pollen tube growth and crossability were investigated between different varieties of rice (Oryza sativa). Meiosis was normal in all varieties. More pollen germination was recorded on selfing the varieties as compared to the inter-varietal crosses. The rate of pollen tube growth showed no positive correlation with the seed set. Inadequate pollination or low per cent pollen germination could be a cause of low seed-set in intra-racial crosses of rice. So, while making such crosses breeders may take care that adequate pollen falls on the stigma for a good seed set.
23780405|The nature of the inhibition of germination of developing wheat grains changes with time. During the first few weeks after authesis the presence of the pericarp prevents germination, and this may be a physical effect unconnected with growth substances. Once the pericarp becomes fused to the caryopsis inhibitory effects associated with both the embryo itself and the rest of the grain continue to prevent germination until ripening commences. Experiments with applied growth substances suggest that these effects may be regulated by a balance of endogenous gibberellins and abscisic acid, but the results of extraction experiments indicate the possibility that auxin may be inhibitory. Auxing content decreases to a low level during ripening, but in preliminary extraction experiments carried out with ripe grains of several sprouting-susceptible and sprouting-resistant cultivars it was found that both free and bound auxing content were relatively greater in the susceptible cultivars, and may be at a stimulatory concentration at this time.
23784250|Investigations were initiated into the possibility of transferring obligate apomixis from Cenchrus ciliaris (L.) to sorghum, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. A schematic procedure was drawn up for such a transfer through protoplast fusion and regeneration. Cytological and embryological studies in a biotype of Cenchrus ciliaris revealed the operation of obligate apomixis. Rapidly growing and friable embryogenic callus was obtained on LS 2.5 from immature inflorescences. Plant regeneration was obtained in greater numbers on MS with IAA 5 mg/1-1 and kinetin 0.2 mg/1-1. Regenerated plants were established in soil and grown in the field.
90003484|In our study 11 hydrocarbon degrading aerobic microbe strains were examined. These strains are originated from Hungarian hydrocarbon contaminated sites (eg. petrol stations, pipeline breakages and former oil distribution facilities, sites) and as members of a product (soil and groundwater inoculum) they are used for bioremediation purposes. In some cases the mentioned strains are used on hydrocarbon contaminated sites that have heavy metal pollution also (eg. complex contaminations of heavy industrial areas). High heavy metal concentrations are toxic (
23782802|Desiccation as a major cause of winterkill of wheat was studied using field grown plants of 12 winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars and 1 winter rye (Secale cereale L.) cultivar in controlled environments. Neither rapid or slow freezing of the plants to -20C (minimum temperature attained in the root zone under Montana conditions) damaged any of the cultivars. Therefore cold temperatures above -20C are not the main cause of winter injury to wheat in Montana or in areas with similar environments. Desiccant induced drying, combined with -20C, differential injured or killed the 12 winter wheat and 1 rye cultivars. Ability to resist desiccation was positively correlated (r = 0.978**, n = 13) with field winterhardiness of the winter cereal cultivars. The findings support the desiccation hypothesis for explaining winter injury to wheat.
23788183|The effect of substrate water potential (w) in anatomical characteristics of root seedlings of maize Tuxpeo Sequa C0 (TSC0), drought sensitive, and Tuxpeo Sequa C8 (TSC8), drought resistant, were evaluated. Seventy two hours old seedlings, having an average root length of 5 cm, were maintained for 24 h in vermiculite at w of -0.03, -0.65, -1.48 and -2.35 MPa. Anatomical characteristics from both differentiation and cell division root regions were evaluated. Lowest w diminished significantly (P=0.0020) transverse root area, number of cells in the cortex parenchyma, thickness of epidermis, exodermis and cortex, and number of metaxylem vessels in both maize populations. Number of metaxylem vessels and cortex thickness was affected only in TSC0 (15% in both cases); in contrast, the number of cortex cells in the differentiation root region increased 25%, independently of the w, and the thickness of the xylem wall from the differentiation root region increased 93% at w of -2.35 MPa, in both maize populations. Results suggest that the recurrent selection for drought tolerance induced a significant thinning of the protoderm (78%), endodermis (17%), and xylem vessels (14%) in Tuxpeo maize root and modified the response of root to substrate w, including several anatomical changes.
90002933|Soil compaction is a human-induced physical soil failure connected to cultivation. It unfavourably effects crop production and degrades soils. The EU included compaction as a dangerous threath on our soil cover in the proposal of the soil framework directive [COM(2006)232] to reduce the spread of harmful tendencies that are present nowadays. Present paper demonstrates a simple, but easy-to-use field method developed earlier in Germany, through the examination of soils of a recultivated strip mine territory. Our approach was to test the so called '
23790364|Low molecular weight glutenin subunits are important components of wheat seed storage protein, and play a significant in determining the end-use quality characteristics of wheat varieties. Allelic variation of the LMW-GS is associated with the significant differences of dough quality in bread and durum wheat, and has been widely evaluated at protein level in wheat and its relatives. In this study seven specific primers, specifically amplify genes located at the Glu-A3 and Glu-D3 loci, were employed to assay the length variation of LMW-GS genes in the A and D-genomes of diploid wheats. A total of 86 accessions of diploid wheats, including 10 accessions of T. boeoticum and 76 accessions of Ae. tauschii, were investigated. Seven alleles were detected in accessions of T. boeoticum (Glu-A3 locus) by two pairs of specific primers and eighteen alleles were detected in accessions of Ae. tauschii (Glu-D3 locus) by five pairs of specific primers. A higher level of allelic variation of LMW-GS was found in accession T. boeoticum and Ae. tauschii with Nei's genetic variation index (H) of 0.82 and 0.92, respectively. This allelic variation could be used as valuable source for the enrichment of genetic variations and the alteration of flour-processing properties of the cultivated wheat.
23789827|Three wheat varieties of Atlas66 (Al-tolerant genotype), EM12 (a major elite cultivar in China) and Scout66 (Al-sensitive genotype) were used to investigate their potential mechanisms of Al toxicity. Al concentrations of 50, 75, 100 mol l1 were used and the inhibition on root elongation between Scout66 and EM12 is significantly higher than that of Al-tolerant Atlas66, which is negative correlated to the Al absorption in root apices. Organic acids secretion was checked 24 h after Al stress and only malate was detected in Atlas66, but none of the organic acids were detected in the others, suggesting that secretion of malate in root is a major mechanism of Al resistance in Al-tolerant wheat genotype. The root cell ultrastructure showed less damage in Atlas66 than that in Scout66 and EM12 under Al stress by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) technique. Tissue culture was carried out and the callus induction frequencies were all decreased on the media containing Al. The decrease of callus induction frequencies was less in Atlas66 than that in the others. It is concluded that Al damages the cell ultrastructure, resulting in the inhibition of acids secretion and cell division, which implies that the damage of cell ultrastructure is probably the key factor in Al inhibition of root growth.
23785319|The aim of the present study was to detect the fungicide residues (cyproconazole and carbendazime) in flour and bran, produced from grain of 4 fungicide-treated wheats by gas and liquid chromatography. In case Alto 320 was applied in the 1-2-nodes stage of the stem development cyproconazole could be detected in the flour of only two wheat varieties, but in the bran it was not detected at all. When Alto 320 was sprayed in stage closer to harvesting (in the beginning of heading) cyproconazole could be detected in the flour of all four varieties and in the bran of three varieties. In case of Alto Combi 420 treatment cyproconazole was detected only in the flour of one wheat variety, carbendazime has not been found in any of the samples. The results show that fungicides of triazole type are more pronouncedly translocated in flour (7 cases) as compared to bran, which is constituted mainly from parts of the pericarp (3 cases).
23781316|From a project designed to substitute chromosome 2R of rye into commercial wheat, we have isolated plants disomic for both the 2R(2B) substitution and for each of two translocated chromosomes resulting from a presumed reciprocal translocation event between the short and long arms of 2R and the long and short arms of a wheat chromosome, tentatively identified as 2B.
23782787|Data over a 8-month period of haploid production of winter barley following the interspecific cross between Hordeum vulgare and Hordeum bulbosum are reported in this paper. On average, more than 4 haploids per F1 plant were obtained with a variation in success rates between F1s. Only 18 out of 126 F1 lines of winter barley yielded a very low number of haploids.
90003007|This study is dedicated to evaluate the relation between production site and the quality of soybean. The results obtained suggest, that the impact of the production site on soybean quality is remarkable, especially regarding oil- and raw protein contents. This phenomena could be experienced both in case of early and mid-early varieties, though not in the same degree.
23783879|The behaviour of immature embryos derived from a wheat line (Tr. aestivum cv. Chinese Spring) with disomic addition of 4H chromosome (from Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Betzes) and tetrasomic 4A and 4D lines in callus initiation medium culture was studied, with respect to factors: alien chromosome, chromosome dose and 2,4D content in the medium. The alien chromosome 4H and the overdose of 4A and 4D chromosomes changed considerably embryo and callus culture reaction to exogenous auxins. The chromosomes and 2,4-D concentration effects on the germination of mature seeds from these lines were analysed too. Chromosome 4H stimulated root formation and coleoptile growth in vivo.
23789911|Information on genetic diversity of maize hybrids is very important for germplasm enhancement, hybrid breeding and in preventing environmental damage which may occur due to genetic uniformity of hybrids grown on large areas. The main goal of our study was to assess temporal changes in genetic diversity over the past four decades among ZP maize hybrids within the largest planting area in Serbia. The objectives were to: (i) characterize maize hybrids from different periods by RAPD markers; (ii) analyze temporal changes in genetic diversity among maize hybrids. Twenty-four maize hybrids were chosen from breeding programs in Maize Research Institute "Zemun Polje" on the basis of their superior yield and predominant seed production throughout four Periods. Patterns of RAPD markers were unique for each studied genotype. The average GD between hybrids continuously increased from Period B to Period E. Changes in genetic background during the last 40 years have a major impact on genetic diversity among ZP maize hybrids. There was no significant change in genetic variability of hybrids through the Periods.
23778571|Variations and covariations were measured from parents, F2 and F3 generations of three durum wheat crosses. The results indicated wide ranges and significant variations for grain yield in crosses 1 and 2, for number of tillers/plant, number of kernels/main spike, number of kernels/spikelet and kernel weight in cross 1, for number of spikelets/main spike in crosses 2 and 3, and for days to heading and plant height in all three crosses. Heritability estimates were generally high for days to heading, intermediate. to high for plant height, intermediate for yield (low in cross 3) and number of spikelets/main spike and low for the other characters. The narrow sense estimates were generally lower than the broad sense estimates. Single phenotypic correlation coefficients indicated that grain yield was positively correlated with tillering, number of kernels/main spike, number of spikelets/main spike and number of kernels/spikelet. Among the other characters, days to heading was negatively correlated with kernel weight in cross 3 and number of kernels/main spike was positively associated with number of kernels/spikelet.
23792282|Allele composition of 12 Hellenic commercial cultivars and 17 local populations of durum wheat was evaluated at the gliadin (Gli-Al, Gli-Bl, Gli-A2, Gli-B2) and high-molecular-weight glutenin subunit loci (Glu-Al, Glu-Bl). Acid polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (APAGE) for gliadins and SDS-electrophoresis for HMW-GS were applied. Electrophoretic analysis revealed that five of the examined local populations, which are registered as durum wheat, are actually bread wheat. The predominant alleles in both the groups of Hellenic durum wheats are Gli-Alr, Gli-Blh, Glu-Alc, Gli-B2-1. At the Glu-B1 locus the allele Glu-Blb associated with better quality predominates among the cultivars (58%), whereas the allele Glu-Ble (50%) shows the highest frequency among the local populations. Only three samples, two cultivars (Syros and Lemnos) and one local population (Local of Heraklio), carry the gene locus Gli-Bl component 42, which is an index of inferior end product quality. Higher genetic diversity at the studied storage protein loci of the homoeologous group 1 chromosomes (Glu-Al, Glu-Bl, Gli-Al, Gli-Bl) was recorded in the local Hellenic populations of durum wheat compared to the group of the Hellenic commercial cultivars. The results suggest their potential for widening the gene pool of commercial durum wheat cultivars.
23785370|Sambutoxin, a novel toxin from Fusarium sambucinum, was found to be a potent and selective inhibitor to the electron transport between cytochromes b and cc1 of respiratory chain in mitochondria.
23785265|The inheritance of tannin content as source of shootfly resistance in sorghum was studied deploying parental, F1, RF1, F2, BC1, and BC2 generations of six crosses involving two resistant parent, IS 4664 and IS 5566 and two susceptible SPV 422 and SPV 475. Estimation of tannin content was based on 'Catechin equivalent'. The result indicated digenic interaction along with additive dominance model to explain the inheritance of tannin content. Greater dominance effects and duplicate type of epistasis showed the heterosis as main method to exploit tannin content in sorghum for shootfly resistance.
23785364|Aspergillus strains were isolated from green coffee beans of different origin, and their ochratoxin producing ability was examined. The most prevalent species found in most samples was A. niger; some isolates of this species produced ochratoxins A and B. A. ochraceus strains were also isolated, some of which produced ochratoxins. The other Aspergillus species found in green coffee beans include A.flavus,A.fumigatus,A.tamarii,A.oryzae and A. parasiticus, none of which produced ochratoxins. Our results indicate that A. ochraceus is not the only Aspergillus species responsible for ochratoxin contamination of green coffee beans.
23780406|Ears of wheat were collected once a week during the vegetative period. Kernel extracts from each collection were gas chromatographed and bioassayed. The g.c. pattern was rather stable and the biological responses mainly inhibited during maturity and moisture decrease. When the moisture content increased again some g.c. peaks disappeared and new ones arose. In general, the bioassays showed a change from inhibition to stimulation and the falling number dropped. If the kernels dried the g.c. peaks and stimulation decreased but increased again at the next moisture rise. Furthermore, iso--amylases as separated by isoelectric focusing showed different patterns in immature and mature kernels. Further investigations are needed to check and correlate the results hitherto based on material from different years.
23782765|Stability of yield components and related variables was determined for hexaploid and tetraploid wheats, in order to assess their potential use as indirect selection criteria for yield under both spaced plant and commercial seeding densities. The study was carried out using two different varieties per species over two growing seasons under both dry (rainfed) and irrigated conditions. Stability was studied by means of analysis of variance. Yield components measured in dense stands were, as expected, more stable than those measured on spaced plants. In hexaploid wheat, the relatively most stable variables were those taken from "fertile" tillers. Components measured on a whole plant basis, were more stable than those taken on the main culm for the hexaploid genotypes. In tetraploid wheat, yield components were surprisingly more stable when taken under rainfed than irrigated trials. Components measured on whole plants were more stable for tetraploid wheat than those taken on "fertile" or main tillers. In general the most stable components were thousand kernel weight and harvest index in bread wheat and fertile tillering and thousand kernel weight in durum wheat. The least stable characters were tiller number and spikelet number per spike.
23781349|A genetic variability and path coefficient study was conducted on 30 strains of triticale and three cultivars of hexaploid bread wheat. The genotypic coefficient of variability was the highest for grain yield /24 per cent/ followed by pelshenke value and the lowest for protein content /3 per cent/ and days to heading. All other characters had moderate estimates of genotypic coefficient of variation. The broad heritability estimates were very high /80 per cent and above/ for plant height, ear length and spikelets per ear. These estimates ranged from 41 per cent for grain yield to 76 per cent for sedimentation values. The lowest h2 estimate was obtained for protein content /12 per cent/. The correlation studies revealed that the grain yield was positively associated with effective tillers and negatively with days to heading. The grain weight showed significant positive association with plant height and ear length but negative with grain number. The grain number showed a negative association with days to heading. The sedimentation value had a positive association with spikelets per ear. The genotypic correlation coefficients, in general, were higher than the phenotypic estimates and were in the same direction. The path coefficient analysis based on genotypic correlation coefficients showed the highest direct effects of sedimentation value and grain number on grain yield. When the protein content was taken as the dependent variable, the highest positive and negative direct effects were observed for grain number and grain yield, respectively.
23789850|Thirteen accessions of wild barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. spontaneum) resistant to powdery mildew caused by the fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei were studied with the aim of determining the number of resistance genes and their allelic relationships to the Mla locus on the short arm of chromosome 1H. In five accessions (PI391130, PI466193, PI466200, PI466495 and PI466510), the resistance was caused by one gene, in seven accessions (PI354949, PI391081, PI466158, PI466197, PI466211, PI466297 and PI466461) by two independent genes and in PI301004 by three independent genes. The type of inheritance of all analysed genes except two was dominant or semi-dominant; only one of two genes in PI391081 and PI466297 was recessive. Allelism tests confirmed that in 10 accessions one gene was allelic with the Mla locus, and in three accessions (PI391081, PI466193 and PI466297) the resistance genes were different from the Mla locus.
23787189|The non-starch polysaccharide (NSP) content and composition of rye flours, differing in baking quality, were studied over three consecutive years at three locations. Rye flours were rich in water-extractable NSP and, consequently, rich in water-extractable arabinoxylans (WE-AX). A large variability of both components was observed in water-unextractable fraction, and especially, in the ratio of water-extractable to water-unextractable arabinoxylan content (WE/U-AX). The proportion of WE/U-AX in rye flour was found to be the primary factor contributing to both flour and bread quality parameters. However, the content of WE-AX correlated positively but not significantly, whereas water-unextractable (WU) counterpart was negatively correlated with quality attributes. The data showed that rye flour of high baking quality had a high ratio of WE/U-AX, which was also combined with high values of falling number and amylographic peak viscosity. Significant, positive correlations were also found between ratio of water extract viscosity to water-extractable arabinoxylan content (EV/WE-AX) and overall baking score and bread volume. Our results suggest that some AX populations, of specific structure and/or molecular weight, could be especially important for baking potential of rye flour.
23786245|The effects of pH and temperature on the uptake of nitrate (NO3-) and nitrite (NO2-) of wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. GK thalom) and rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Oryzella) seedlings were studied in hydroponic cultures in short-term (3-4 h) and long-term (12-24 h) experiments with use of stable (15N) isotope labelled compounds. In short-term experiments the nitrate uptake of the roots of wheat was lower at pH 6.5 than at pH 4. However, in the long-term tests this changed for the opposite, the uptake of nitrate was definitely higher at pH 6.5. The nitrite uptake at pH 4 hardly increased with time. At pH 6.5 its amount was comparable to nitrate. Nitrate and nitrite was translocated towards the shoot. In long-term experiments this value for nitrite was definitely higher than that of nitrate at pH 6. NO3- and NO2- uptake data show that K+, the accompanying ion, compared to Na+, increased the absorption and translocation of NO3- and NO2- in seedlings. The growth of seedlings, under the same experimental conditions, show the same tendency. The temperature coefficient (Q10) for nitrite confirmed the active character of its uptake, and its toxic effect at pH 4. Our results clearly show, that at least in a limited range of concentration (<1mM), at non-acidic pH, plants can utilise the nitrite taken up by roots. However, at low pH HNO2 is formed, generally considered as strong oxidant and toxic substance.
23792283|Ten dicoccum wheats were analyzed for their physico-biochemical and milling properties to evaluate the pasta making potential. Dicoccums showed higher protein content and mixograph midline peak values compared to durum variety MACS 2846. Mixographic properties of dicoccums were poor compared to durums, due to lower functional visco elastic gluten content. Dicoccums were poorer in milling properties compared to durums, due to lower test weight and thousand-grain weight. Among dicoccums, DDK 1025 showed high micro SDS sedimentation volume and strong mixographic properties, but values were still lesser compared to durum MACS 2846. HMW glutenin subunits in recently developed/released dicoccums were similar to durum parents and were different from the older dicoccums. LMW glutenin subunits, however, were similar to dicoccum parents, except in DDK 1025 which showed LMW glutenin subunits similar to durum wheat. To breed high quality dicoccum wheat for pasta products, breeders should select superior glutenin subunits composition, along with better mixograph properties, keeping morpho-botanical characteristics of dicoccum wheat.
23789665|Increased rates of P and K (monoammonium phosphate and potassium chloride) were applied in four replicates on two soils in spring 2001 as follows: a) standard fertilization (kg ha1: 177 N + 100 P2O5 + 150 K2O); b) a + 1500 kg P2O5 ha1; c) a + 1500 kg K2O ha1; d) = b + c. Residual effects of the fertilization were tested in the next year. Maize (OsSK552 hybrid) growing on Luzani soil resulted in 15% lower yield compared to the Kobas soil (7.75 and 9.06 t ha1, respectively). Mean the leaf (the ear-leaf at silking) concentrations (mg kg1) were 41.8 (Zn), 14.1 (Cu) and 131 (Fe), respectively. The leaf Mn was by 60% lower and the leaf Zn by 16% higher in 2002 compared to 2001.Maize grown in the Luzani trial had by 9% lower the leaf Zn, 10% lower the leaf Cu and by 37% higher the leaf Mn compared to the Kobas soil. Under the influence of P fertilization, the leaf Zn decreased by 37% compared to the control. Application of both P and K resulted in decreases of leaf Zn by 30%. However, P fertilization, alone or in combination with K, increased the leaf Mn for 111% and 72% respectively. Significant difference the leaf Cu (by 9% lower) was found under influences K fertilization only. The leaf Fe was independent on these factors.
23786221|The protein content and amino acid composition of grain of various cultivars of 12 cereal species (Triticum monococcum, T. durum, T. aestivum, T. spelta, Secale cereale, Triticosecale, Hordeum vulgare, H. nuda, Avena sativa, A. nuda, Panicum miliaceum, Zea mays), one buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) and one amaranth (Amaranthus molerosa) were studied in biochemical experiments. The grain yield of T. monococcum, T. spelta, Avena nuda, T. durum and one old Hungarian bread wheat (T. aestivum, cv. Bnkti 1201) reached the highest protein concentration (20.9-18.2%). The protein content of other species were in the intervals as follows: bread wheat 14-16%, 15.4%, triticale 13.5-14.5%, millet 10.4-14.3%, barley 10-14.9%, oat 12.4-12.9%, corn 10.6-13.8%. Amaranth had high protein content (15,4%) with a favourable amino acid composition. Similarly to the crude protein the highest total amino acid content was measured in the grain of spelt, einkorn, naked oat, and wheat cv. Bnkti 1201. Sweet corn, dent type of corn hybrid, oat and spring malting barley had the lowest level of amino acid content. Pop corn had the highest leucine content. The highest methionine, lysine and arginine were found in the wholemeal of amaranth, while corn, barley and common wheat proved to be poor in methionine and lysine. Our results suggest that the poor methionine and lysine content of common wheat could be supplemented mostly by adding wholemeal of amaranth and naked oat. Buckwheat is suitable for increasing the lysine content in cereal products. The wholemeal of naked oat contains significantly higher amount of six out of the essential eight amino acids than the aestivum and durum wheat.
90003288|Irrigation wheat production in South Africa is seriously impaired by the regular occurrence of Fusarium head blight epidemics. The disease was noted for the first time in 1980 and has since caused damage whenever the seasonal climatic conditions were favourable. Higher levels of disease concurred with an increase in conservation tillage and maize production in a double cropping system with wheat. Farmers are challenged by a lack of rotation summer crops and high input costs, forcing them towards reduced tillage practices. At present the disease has not been successfully controlled with fungicides and most commercial cultivars show a low level of resistance. Removal of high levels of maize residue, before the cultivation of a wheat crop, has proved effective in reducing disease. Climatic conditions during flowering are extremely unpredictable, but excessive rainfall, lower night temperatures and subsequent higher humidity seem to be key factors in the development of high infection levels. Research currently focuses on cultivar and resistance evaluation, tillage practices, climatic triggers for disease and a fungal population study.
23783051|Amphiploids 6 (AABBDD) and 8 (AABBDDDD) as well as their parents presenting different levels of resistance to brown and yellow rusts were analysed in fields. Resistance genes might be expressed or not in synthetic wheats. Conversely, genes brought by the D genome of T. tauschii were always inhibited in octoploid amphiploids whereas those of bread wheat were expressed.
90003050|The aim of our research in 2005-2006 was to investigate the effects of different conservation tillage methods and nutrient rates on the occurrence of certain insect groups in winter wheat. The investigations were carried out on the long-term soil tillage experimental field in Jzsefmajor, (SZIE GAK Kht. Jzsefmajor Experimental and Training Farm) in the region of Aszd and Hatvan, Northern-Hungary. The experiment was set up in 2002. The cultivation of winter wheat had been continuous between 2002 and 2006.
23786171|Rye cytoplasmic tetraploid triticale was obtained from the backcross hybrids (rye 4x x triticale 4x with wheat cytoplasm) x triticale 4x. In BC1 - F2 generation 29 plants were obtained with 8 stabilized and 2 unstabilized chromosomes constitutions. The most numerous group represented plants with chromosomes constitution 1A, 2A, 3B, 4A, 5B, 6A, 7B. In the next generations, as the result of selection of plant fertility, chromosomes segregation in the wheat genome was observed - new chromosomes constitutions were established and simultaneously the already existing were eliminated. In F3 - F7 generations 11 stabilized new chromosomes constitutions and 20 unstabilized segregated. From the F3 generation there appear the majority of plants, by which in the first homoeological group chromosome 1B exists, in the fifth-chromosome 5B, while chromosome 2B was entirely eliminated. Fertility selection showed the appearance of two most numerous groups of plants with karyotypes 1B, 2A, 3B, 4A, 5B, 6A, 7B and 1B, 2A, 3B, 4B, 5B, 6A, 7B. Plants of F2 - F5 progeny, showed pronounced tendency to free pollination and from the F6 generation plants showed increased selffertility. The highest fertility, in the whole experiment cycle, showed the plant from F3 generation,setting 62.33 seeds/ear, in spite of having unstabilized fourth homeological group. In the last generation investigated, the highest fertility amounted 49 seeds/ear.
90002797|In Croatia, the production of tobacco is located on sandy and silty soils along valley of river Drava. Both high content of silt particles or fine sand in the mechanical structure of the soil, and the frequent shallow tillage, and really been promoted the extension of soil compaction in the ploughed layer and below that. The subsoil compaction through limiting of the root penetration into the soil has significantly decreased the yield of tobacco in the last decades. In the field trial 3 ploughing variants that are to a depth of 20, 30 and 40 cm were compared. While the former pan compaction has been lasted at two variants however the deep ploughing has successfully reduced the compaction and increased the aeration in the soil. Improvement of the soil physical state has fairly contributed to the deep rooting and by this means producing a higher leaf-yield of tobacco.
23778562|A field experiment was conducted with two lines of hexaploid triticale and one wheat (Triticum aestivum) in 1973 and with two lines of triticale, one wheat (Triticum durum) and one rye (Secale cereale) in 1974 to study the changes in alpha and beta amylases, starch starch and reducing sugars and their relation to grain shrivelling in triticale. Grain shrivelling was observed during 21-28 days after anthesis when the net loss of water from the grain began. Beta amylase was higher than alpha during the entire period of grain development. Amylase activity was almost identical in wheat and poorly shrivelled line of triticale IMJ3 and yet no shrivelling was observed in wheat. Triticale S71-142 had more amylase activity at certain stages of grain development than triticale IMJ3 but the grain of S71-142 was much better than IMJ3. When amylase activity was high, no decline in starch and increase in reducing sugars were observed. Therefore, it is proposed that amylases are not related to the grain shrivelling in the lines included in this study.
90003261|The effect of an extract of wheat bran phenolic acids was tested in liquid cultures on type B trichothecene (TCTB) production by
23792323|In the last two decades, powdery mildew resistance has been investigated in a large number of barleys grown in the Czech Republic. However, only 14 winter barley cultivars were resistant to all used isolates. In this paper, new tests on these cultivars and also on 'Verena' are presented. Thirty-two reference isolates of Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei, including some isolates collected in 2009, were used. One of the latter was virulent on 'Laverda' and ten other six-rowed cultivars. It is recommended that this resistance be designated Lv. Another six-rowed cultivar 'Dubai' showed a different resistance to which virulent isolates were also found in 2009. Thus, four resistances were found among the 15 cultivars and only three two-rowed cultivars 'Himalaya', 'Venezia' and Br4190al showing two different resistance spectra remain fully resistant to all used isolates.
23790042|In vitro androgenesis allows haploid and double haploid homozygous plants to be obtained. However, in cereals, non-viable albino plants are often produced. This limits the use of this technique both in basic studies and in plant genetic improvement programs. We have analyzed eight microsatellites of the chloroplast genome (cpSSR) in a collection of 46 double haploid green lines derived from the intervarietal hybrid 'Torote' x 'Presto', and 49 haploid albino plants all obtained from the double haploid line 'ATOPE-41', in order to know the stability of this sequences after the androgenetic process. The green plants showed no variations at the analyzed loci, while two of the albino plants differed at two loci: WCt2 and WCt9. These variations notably affected the microsatellite nucleotide sequences as well as the sequences surrounding them. The changes observed consisted of insertions, deletions and nucleotide substitutions, with transition and transversion types equally common. The latter albino plants showed several alleles at the polymorphic loci, indicating the existence of heteroplasmy.
23786246|Eight barley mutants (M-K 23, M-K 25, M-K 35, M-K 55, M-K 63, M-Q 54 and M-Q 76), two parents (Kaya and Quantum) and two checks (Chevron, salt sensitive and CM 67, salt tolerant) were grown in order to assess of response to drought and salinity in drought and saline (150 mol m3 NaCl + 7.7 mol m3 CaCl2) treatments. Net photosynthesis (mol2 s1), stomatal conductance (mmol m2 s1) and transpiration rates (mmol m2 s1) were measured at the beginning of the flowering stage. Generally, salinity and drought negatively and severely affected net photosynthesis, transpiration rate and stomatal conductance of genotypes. From mutants, M-K 25 had the highest photosynthetic activity in drought; similarly M-K 63 had the highest photosynthetic activity in the external saline treatments. For ion analysis, the youngest fully-emerged leaf was used and measured chloride, sodium and potassium measured. Chloride accumulation in the leaves was generally higher in drought and saline treatments than control plants. Also, potassium concentration remained high in both treatments. Sodium accumulation, however, was slightly higher in drought than untreated control except for M-K 35 and M-K 55. Chloride concentration in M-Q 54 was the lowest among the genotypes in salinity condition. Quantum, M-Q 54 and M-Q 76 had the lowest sodium concentrations, while Kaya had the highest concentration in the saline treatment. In drought treatment, M-Q 54 had the highest potassium concentration, but CM 67 was the highest in saline treatment. Different responses to drought and salinity were found among the barley mutants.
90003026|Genotype by environment interaction (GEI) is a topic of continuous interest for plant breeders. Winter wheat data were subjected to the Additive Main Effects and Multiplicative Interaction (AMMI) analysis. Results indicated a significant GEI for grain yield and its components that influenced the relative ranking of the genotypes across the environments. Informative visualization of AMMI results in form of biplot is discussed.
23783866|Anthers were cultured from eight tetraploid and two hexaploid wheat species. The study of about 1500 anthers per genotype showed significant differences in embryo formation of tetraploid and hexaploid wheats. A high genetic variability for embryo production was identified through ten species used in the experiment. No embryoids were produced from four of them. Three green and two albino plantlets were obtained in one of the tetraploid species (Triticum dicoccoides noir) which is considered as the best studied genotype.
23787568|The gene pool of Rumai 122, probably derived from Korai Arany (Early Golden, a name suggesting origin from Livingstone's Early Golden or Early Golden Mastodon), appears to have arisen from genetic mixing between one or more Southern Dent varieties, probably of the Gourdseed type, imported from the Corn Belt in the 1890s, and the local (improved) Korai Bnti Flint (Early Bnti Flint) variety (Caribbean type, Old Hungarian Yellow, 812-row flint) grown on the Ruma estate. Ruma varieties were grown on around half the maize-growing area in Hungary for 30 years (1925-1955), and enjoyed much the same popularity in Yugoslavia. The varieties bred from the mother plant Rumai 122 in Yugoslavia were Rumai Yellow Dent, Vukovr Yellow Dent and Bllyei Yellow Dent, while those bred in Hungary were "F" Early Yellow Dent and "F" Mezhegyes Yellow Dent. (The latter was also popular in Yugoslavia under the name Novisadski Flajsman.) As the result of Fleischmann's breeding methods, not only were varieties with high yield potential and genetic stability developed from Ruma 122, but this strain also served as a source for the successful breeding of parental lines each used in the development of a number of commercial hybrids. A total of at least 22 first-cycle and 8 second-cycle lines of high value are known. These exhibited good combining ability with a wide range of lines, not only from the Corn Belt, but also from Europe (dent and flint alike). Due to their different origin and excellent combining ability, genetic sources that can be traced back to mother line Rumai 122 are regarded as an independent European source of heterosis.
90003164|The FHB resistance QTL region of wheat chromosome 2DS (
23789796|Gene effects were analyzed using mean excised-leaf water loss and relative water content of 12 populations viz., both parents (P1 and P2), F1, F2, first back cross generations (BC1 and BC2), second back cross generations (B11, B12, B21, B22) and back cross-selfed generations (B1s and B2s) of four crosses involving three drought tolerant and three drought susceptible cultivars of Triticum aestivum L. to determine nature of gene action governing excised-leaf water loss (ELWL) and relative water content (RWC) through generation mean analysis under rainfed (E1) and irrigated (E2) environments. Both additive-dominance and digenic epistatic model were found to be inadequate in all the crosses for ELWL and in most of the crosses for RWC to explain genetic variation among the generation means. Additive gene effects were predominant for RWC, while for ELWL both additive and dominance component of variance were important. Epistatic effects, particularly dominance x dominance (l) type of interaction was more predominant for RWC, while additive x additive(i) for ELWL. Duplicate type of epistasis was observed in the crosses Hindi 62/HS240 and VL421/HS240 for RWC and in the cross S4/HPW89 for ELWL under both the environments. Complementary type of epistasis was observed only in the cross VL421/PBW175 for ELWL under E1. Hybridization systems, such as biparental mating and/or diallel selective mating could be useful for improvement of these traits which would help in isolating drought tolerant progenies.
23782974|The transmission rates of the extra chromosome were determined in the fourteen primary trisomics of durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.) by examining the progeny of trisomics crossed as female parents with disomics and the pro geny of selfed trisomics. The female transmission varied from chromosome to chromosome and averaged 27.6%. Self-pollination of trisomics gave 29.3% of tri somics and 0.4% of tetrasomics. The relative frequency of n + 1 male gametes was 0.02.
23789711|Six cultivars of soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) maturity groups 0 and I were evaluated in relation to the response to foliar fertilization with two levels of Epsom salt (ESFF) on grain yield, protein and oil content in grain. A field study conducted in Eastern Croatia during four years (1998-2001). The obtained results showed significant increasing of grain yield, protein and oil content in grain affected by ESFF. At investigated traits were non significant differences between two treatment levels. Interaction ESFF with cultivars as well as with years was significant, respectively.
23787068|The purpose of this work was to determine whether sequences homologous to maize transposable elements exist in wheat and its relatives. Genomic Southern blots of Triticeae members were used to detect copy number of homologues to the major open reading frames of the maize Ac and En transposases, and MudrB, a regulator of transposition. The number of similar sequences was the least with Ac, intermediate with Mu, and the greatest with En. Maize transposons at the nucleotide and amino acid level were used in EST and genomic database searches. Nucleotide identity between maize and wheat was 58% for Ac, 59% for Mu, and 61% for En. Protein homologues were found for Ac and Mu in wheat and barley, and for En in barley.
23787272|We have analyzed 380pb long N-terminal parts of Glu-D1x alleles from several lines of landraces and old cultivars of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) with the aim to verify, whether alleles characterized as identical according to their mobility in SDS-PAGE are encoded always by the same DNA sequences. European landraces and old cultivars were chosen for the study as a potential source of higher genetic variability as compared with modern wheat cultivars. We have not found any changes in comparison with known data in the sequences of Dx3 and Dx4 alleles, which in fact were rare in the available set of landraces and old cultivars. Three point mutations were found together in Dx2 and Dx5 alleles of landraces and old cultivars, no one in the standard wheat cultivars Chinese Spring and Bezostaya1. Sequencing analysis can be another suitable technique for study of glutenin alleles complementing SDS-PAGE.
23783894|Eighty-one advanced bread wheat lines derived from 12 crosses involving seven synthetic hexaploids (Triticum turgidum x T. tauschii) and seven high yielding T. aestivum cultivars were evaluated for Karnal bunt (Tilletia indica Mitra) resistance during two crop seasons at CIANO, Ciudad Obregon, Sonora, Mexico. Ten random tillers of each test entry at boot stage were injected with a suspension of sporidia in water (10,000 sporidia/ml of water). At maturity the inoculated spikes were threshed individually and evaluated for percent Karnal bunt infected grains. Based on the mean Karnal bunt score of each entry for two seasons, 17 lines showed less than 3% infection as compared to 82.1% of the susceptible T. aestivum check cultivar WL711. Most of the resistant cultivars were derivatives of Chen/T. tauschii (205)//Kauz cross. One entry from the cross Chen/T. tauschii (205)//Weaver remained immune (0% infection) after two years of test. Finally, these derivatives provide additional source of genetic variability for Karnal bunt resistance in bread wheat improvement.
23787266|Wheat cultivars that can thrive well in water-limited soil conditions are desirable in wheat improvement programs of semiarid environments. There is inadequate information regarding the physiological traits that can be used for predicting levels of water deficit tolerance in different wheat cultivars. The objective of this study was to determine changes in electrolyte leakage (EL) and responses to water deficit among eight wheat cultivars differing in drought susceptibility indexes (DSI). Two Triticum turgidum var. durum and six T. aestivum wheat cultivars were grown in three replicates with two water treatments (1) water deficit, and (2) non-water deficit in a growth room controlled environment. At 30 d after planting following an early water deficit treatment EL was measured. Analysis of EL showed significant (P < 0.05) differences between durum cultivars but no significant cultivar x treatment interaction, whereas the bread wheats showed a significant cultivar effect and cultivar x watering treatment interaction.
90003298|Type III resistance has been described as the capacity of the plant to degrade or avert deoxynivalenol (DON) accumulation. Plant traits and DON accumulation response is often contradictory as experiments are carried out either under artificial infection pressure, in natural field conditions or greenhouse inoculations. The effect of seeding dates and the correlations between days to heading and DON content and also between plant height and DON content were investigated. Two replicated trials were carried out during an FHB epidemic year in 2004 and two others were carried out in natural conditions in 2007 at two seeding dates. Five representative barley cultivars, Chapais, AC Vision, Brucefield, AC Klinck, and Encore were investigated. Results showed a significant effect of seeding dates on days to heading. Seeding dates had an effect on DON content and plant height only during a non-epidemic year. A positive correlation was observed between plant height and DON content. A negative correlation between heading date and DON was also observed. These findings suggest that, contrary to results obtained in inoculated experiments, shorter cultivars with later heading dates were less contaminated with DON. A passive Type III resistance in spring barley may be associated with shorter plant stature and/or later heading dates under natural infection conditions.
23786104|This study involves three growing seasons (1996 to 1999) under Bornova conditions in zmir. A total of 90 durum and bread wheat genotypes were grown to define the most desirable genotypes in terms of grain yield and heading date as a selection criteria of earliness in the 1996-97 crop season. Ten durum and five bread wheat parents were selected based on the results of the first year preliminary experiment. Ten durum and five bread wheat parent-diallel crosses without reciprocals were made by hand pollination in 1997-98 crop season. Forty-five durum and ten bread wheat F1 crosses obtained were grown in progeny rows with two replications in 1998-99 crop season. Variance analyses performed indicated that there were statistically significant differences among the F1 cross combinations for grain yield and heading date which didn't have any significant correlation with each other in both durum and bread wheat cross populations. The analyses of general and specific combining ability showed that Tokak Schka Eid (durum) and Atay 85 (bread) wheat genotypes were the best combiner parents. Epidur x 97mbvd-12, Tokak Schka Eid x Frat 93, Cosmidur x Gkgl 79 and Cosmidur x Ambral durum and Atay 85 x Krgz bread wheat crosses having higher specific combining abilities were determined as promising cross populations in further generations.
23784254|Components of partial resistance (CPR) to Septoria nodorum were studied in wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em Thell) genotypes. Wheat was inoculated at three stages of development, which were adult stage, nonvernalized seedling, and vernalized seedling. Results indicated that there were significant differences among cultivars for each of the CPR. The expression of CPR in the adult stage was often different from that of the seedling stages; however, vernalization had little effect on CPR in the seedling stage. Leaf position also affected disease ratings. Generally, the top leaf had longer incubation and latent periods than the second and third leaves. Maturation period (the length of time from symptom expression to development of pycnidia) was significantly different for cultivars. Subdividing latent period into components incubation period and maturation period may help clarify this resistance system.
90003244|The aim was to compare the cumulation of deoxynivalenol mycotoxin in kernels of naked oats and covered oats with hull and without hull after artificial infection with
23786060|To determine the presence of Fusarium graminearum on wheat midges (Sitodiplosis mosellana), adult females were captured from a spring wheat (Triticum aestivum) field near Quebec City (Canada) and plated on potato dextrose agar. A mouth aspirator was used to capture live midges in sterile vials. F. graminearum was isolated from 2.1, 5.3 and 0.6% of midges captured in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively whereas other Fusarium spp. were isolated from 2.5% of the midges in 1999 and from none in 1997 and 1998. To verify that wheat midges can effectively transmit Fusarium spores to wheat spikes, glasshouse-grown wheat plants were exposed for five days to adult female wheat midges previously inoculated in the laboratory with F. graminearum macroconidia and also to uninoculated control wheat midges. At dough stage, the fungus was recovered from 29% of the spikes of plants that had been exposed to inoculated midges, and from none of the other plants. This is the first report of the natural occurrence of F. graminearum, and other Fusarium spp., on female adult wheat midges and of its transmission to wheat spikes by the midge.
23786277|The objective of this study was both to investigate the effects caused by the russian wheat aphid (RWA) from tillering to maturity during tillering and jointing, on the phenology, above dry matter, flag leaf height, relative growth rate and grain yield of an Argentinean wheat variety and evaluate which grain yield components are modified according to aphid feeding period. Two experiments were conducted during 1995 in La Plata (Buenos Aires province, Argentina). The treatments were: aphids from tillering (AFT), aphids during tillering (ADT), aphids during jointing (ADJ) and control. Above dry matter was affected according to the moment of RWA presence. A feeding period previous to growth stage 31 and uninterrupted over the complete growing cycle can produce an irreversible grain yield lost with a great incidence on the above dry matter production. Even though ADT had no different performance (p>0.05) with control in above dry matter at harvest, flag leaf height, relative growth rate, grain number/spike and one thousand grain weight, a recovery in the grain yield had no presented (66.6 % of the control grain yield and only 4.86 % superior to ADJ grain yield). ADJ has the worst performance, so long as it showed lowest above dry matter, relative growth rate and grain yield (through grain weight and grain number/spike). The ability for compensate the RWA damage in feeding periods previous to first node detectable had manifested for above dry matter but not for grain yield. The damage effects reflected both at production rate and components yield modification were in accord with the period when aphids affects the plants.
23785268|Regime of water and moisture of loessive, semigley and hydromeliorated soil during two years in the Vinkovci area (Eastern Croatia) was investigated. Instantaneous soil moisture content was measured per decades during vegetation in the layer of 0-30 and 30-60 cm in a demolished sample condition and via metal cylinders after Kopecky. When we compared them (calibrating) satisfying coincidence was achieved in a field and subfield layer expressed by high correlation coefficients (R=0.947**, R=0.862* in the first and R=0.933**, R=0.986** in the second year) which confirms justification of soil sampling in demolished soil sample condition by means of earth auger. Instantaneous soil moisture content was compared in relation to corn yield. The highest deficiencies were recorded in July and August when the corn is in the pretasselling/tasselling phase as well as in maize grain formation phase. These water deficiencies had the highest influence on grain yield reduction which was in drier year at water deficiency during vegetation of 142.7 mm (June and July 131.5 mm) on the average of 5.591 t ha1. In the second total water deficits during vegetation were considerably lower and amounted to 93.9 mm, which is significantly less than deficiencies monitored for many years' period for this region with significantly higher average corn yield of 7.320 t ha1.
90002647|In the paper was analyzed marketable tuber yield stability of eight foreign potato cultivars (Arosa, Rosara, Velox, Flavia, Satina, Hopehely, Goliath and Rioja) grown in Croatian production environments for three growing seasons (2003-2005), on four locations (Brinje, Varadin, Velika Kopanica and Osijek). Results of marketable tuber yields and estimated stability parameters indicate that genotypes, which have a high stability, were not the highest-yielding genotypes. The highest-yielding cultivar was Hopehely, which could be recommended for high-yielding environments, and the most stable cultivar was Rosara. There is concordance between regression coefficient estimates and AMMI analysis.
23783844|Tropical quality protein maize (QPM) and normal maize from Ghana were steeped, milled, fermented spontaneously for three days and cooked into kenkey. Weanling rats were fed kenkey-based diets for 28 days. Raw grains contained more fat and ash than their corresponding kenkey but similar amounts of protein. Processing raw grains into kenkey reduced the lysine content by 13% and the tryptophan content by 22%. Kenkey from QPM contained 48% more lysine and 60% more tryptophan than kenkey from normal maize. The individual average gains by rats on QPM kenkey diet were 37.2g, and on normal maize kenkey diet, 16.2g, a 2.3-fold difference. Rats fed QPM kenkey diet had better feed conversion ratio and higher protein efficiency ratio (PER) values than their counterparts fed normal maize kenkey diet.
90002926|A long-term field trial was set up in order to define the effects of autumn or spring primary tillage upon the physical characteristics and yields of spring row crops  maize and soybean. The objectives were to assess and recommend the most effective tillage method. In the first trial year, the year factor had a stronger influence on maize yields compared to the tillage factor. In the second trial year, however, the situation was quite contrasted. The tillage factor had a stronger impact on soybean yields compared to the year factor. The two-year investigation period was only allowed to draw some preliminary conclusions. For this reason the research will be continued.
23783053|The genetic determinism of protein content was studied in the progeny of crosses between six different strains of barley, in full diallel fashion. Protein content was a result of predominantly additive effects as shown by the high value for general combining ability (GCA). Estimation of genetic components confirmed that dominance was incomplete. There were unequal allele frequencies between the parents and the recessive alleles had a positive influence on the character. Heritability was estimated.
23783735|Despite the advances in wheat doubled haploid technology, a number of questions related to which technique is best to use to create the wheat doubled haploids and the eventual efficacy of doubled haploids in plant breeding remain. This report will describe three experiments that we have recently completed or that are in progress that have identified the presence of gametoclonal variation (which in our experiments was deleterious variation) for grain yield in the doubled haploid lines derived from two of three cultivars. In addition, we have identified gametoclonal variation for chromosome structure in doubled haploid lines derived from one cultivar. However, the gametoclonal variation is generally small and should not be a maior difficulty in using doubled haploid lines in breeding programs.
23785312|Physiological processes change as plants age. This study was conducted to determine how concentration of ions, and distribution of proteins, change in senescing stalk internodes of a sweet maize (Zea mays L.) 'Illini Gold', a shrunken2 hybrid, was monitored from mid-whorl (V9; internodes completely juvenile) to fresh-market maturity(FM; internodes exhibiting stages of senescence). Internodes near the base of the stalk, just below the ear, and between an ear and tassel were rated for senescence. These same tissues were extraced and analyzed by SDS-PAGE electrophoresis and automated ion analysis. Senescence rating in internodes increased from V9 or VT to FM. Concentrations of No3, Na+, total Fe, and total Mn were unchanged, while those of total N, in a Kjeldahl digest (TKN), and K+ were reduced in all internodes as plants aged. In one or more internodes, concentrations of total P, in a Kjeldahl digest (TKP), HPO42, Mg2+, Ca2+, and SO42 either were unchanged, fluctuated, or decreased as plant aged. Concentrations of TKN, TKP, HOP42, Mg2+, and SO42 were negatively correlated with senescence rating in one or more internodes. The lease number of protein bands, between 14.4 and 97.4 kD, were found on gels at FM. Changes in concentration of some ions, and distribution of proteins may indicate the onset of senescence.
23789322|The movement of Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV) in the leaves and entire plants of three maize lines was studied under greenhouse conditions. One line was considered resistant and the other two showed a different level of susceptibility. The effect of the growth stage at which the maize plants were inoculated on SCMV movement was also examined. None of the lines tested was fully immune, even in the resistant line the inoculated leaves were infected. Nevertheless, SCMV was detected in the inoculated leaves 7 days later than in the susceptible lines and did not spread into the newly developed leaves. In the lines with the different level of susceptibility SCMV moved into the newly developed leaves at a different rate and in the less susceptible line the spread was also affected by the development stage of maize at inoculation. The spread of the virus from the inoculated parts of the leaves into the non-inoculated ones was also considerably faster in the highly susceptible line, compared with the susceptible and the resistant line, whereas in these two lines the rate of spread was dependent on the development stage of the plants under inoculation and also on the position of the leaf on the plant.
23787580|Under the use of the new irrigated wheat production method on raised beds in NW Mexico, it is necessary to re-define the components of the traditional production technology, focused on population density (PD) and number of rows per bed (RPB). At the Yaqui Valley Agricultural Experiment Station an experiment was carried out during fall-winter 1991-1992, which consisted of a complete factorial of three plant arrangements: one, two, and three rows per raised bed (RPB), and seven population densities (PD): 20, 40, 80, 160, 240, 320 and 800 thousand plants per hectare (TPPH), in a randomized complete block design with four replications. Results indicated that average wheat grain yields were 730 and 250 kg ha1 higher when seeded at two RPB compared with one and three RPB, and PD had no significant effect. At PD higher than 80 TPPH, yields increased consistently. The response to PD was consistent up to around 240 TPPH. Differences in optimum PD were not so large and it is not necessary to change the recommendations when the plant pattern arrangement (RPB) is modified.
23783107|Experiment was carried out on testing the effect of various 2,4-D and kinetin combinations on the in vitro plant regeneration capacity of a recalcitrant wheat variety "GK thalom". We found that from the dedifferentiated somatic callus culture of the "GK thalom" the plant regeneration can be significantly increased by using 2,4-D (1-1.5 mg/1) and kinetin (0.5-4 mg/1) hormone combinations in order to induce the formation of embryogenic calli in the first step (Fig.1.A and B) and subsequently transferring them on a media containing 4 mg/1 kinetin in the second step (Table 1). 85.8% of the calli regenerated plantlets in this way.
90002823|The article gives insight into the dynamics, deposit, and coverage of wheat leaves by spray droplets in case of three different types of TeeJet nozzles and at five different levels of spraying pressure. An average level of coverage was determined (expressed in percentage) as well as an average surface density of droplet traces (1/cm
90002820|An evaluation of the vegetation on the reclaimed spoil heap of material deposited from the overlaying rock of an open-cast brown coal mine. The application of standard geobotanical research methods with statistical data analysis. Under the present management conditions desirable meadow taxa keep their constancy; the reduction of ruderal and weed species is evident, though statistically insignificant. For the variability of species composition over time, and in particular by the location of relevs taken, the strong influence of substrate heterogeneity i.e. (in addition to exposure, humidity etc.) is inferred.
90002767|The initial plant succession, primary community of gravel lakes are hardly in researching sphere in Central Europe. In the first stage, these lakes are infrequent especially without any human caused exterior effect. We have been measuring the vegetations of two gravel lakes for six months. We did vegetation survey and have researched some characteristic points from the littoral region to profoundal region. By our results in the first step of succession few algae species, especially Chara sp. appeared. We found Myriophyllum spicatum, Ceratophyllum demersum and Potamogeton natans in different dominance and pattern after the first succession stage. The depth was not a limiting factor for the flora only for a few species. The Chara sp. seems to be successful under low competition pressure, especially in deeper regions where they grow in mono-specific carpets. Myriophyllum spicatum, Potamogeton natans and Ceratophyllum demersum can grow together in great variability of presence-absence and abundance-dominance.
23782874|To determine the nature of resistance to MPM, a study was made using the F1, F2 and F3 material of the four crosses involving resistant ARC 11351, Vellathil Cheera, PTB 21 and ARC 6650 and the susceptible T(N)1, IR 34 and Mahsuri genetypes. Resistance is governed by one dominant Bph and one recessive bph gene which segregate independently of each other in Vellathil Choora and PTB 21. Resistance is governed by two duplicate dominant genes Bph, Bph in ARC 6650 and recessive gene bph in ARC 11351.
23785245|The World's major crops in terms of dry matter production are cereals, the cultivated members of the family Gramineae. The cereals provide the bulk of the protein and carbohydrate for humans and animals. The seed storage proteins are of particular importance because they determine not only the total protein content of the seed, but also its quality for various end uses. This paper presents an overview of the molecular biology, genetic polymorphism and properties of barley storage proteins - hordeins. The basic aim was to sistematize already published data including our results, and to point out the important role of hordeins in barley cultivar identification.
90003258|The object of the study was mycological analysis of settlement of winter wheat grain samples collected in 2005/2006 and 2006/2007 cropping seasons with the special respect to a new species 
23786260|RFLP markers flanking the R loci for red grain colour in hexaploid wheat were identified previously using barley cDNAs to probe Southern blots. Here we report a novel approach for isolating and identifying individual wheat homoeologues of the barley sequences. End sequences from the barley clones were used to design multiple sets of compatible forward and reverse primers which amplify from wheat genomic DNA in PCR. Amplification products from nullisomic-tetrasomic lines of Chinese Spring were obtained from some primer/line combinations but not from others. Appropriate combinations of primer pairs and nullisomic templates were used to clone products specific to each of the wheat chromosomes 3A, 3B and 3D. End sequences of these products were then used to design new primer combinations which specifically amplify products from single wheat chromosomes. This technique reduces the number of clones which must be sequenced in order to obtain all three homoeologues of each target marker, by allowing selective amplification from each homoeolocus in turn. We believe that the method has considerable potential for the development of sequence tagged sites in wheat from heterologous RFLP mapping probes.
23783917|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. Mercia) seedlings grown in full darkness were used for separate measurements of shoot and root dark respiration (RD) under 0 l(CO2) I1 (RD0) and 660 l(CO2) I1 (RD660). RD660 was inhibited, on average, by 24 % (RD660 = 0.74 * RD0, r2 = 0.914) although the measured samples differed in both the proportion of growth to maintenance respiration and the amount of reserve material.
23783639|Eight cultivars were grown in the field over a two-year period to study relationships among flag leaf parameters and grain yield in soft red winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Leaf area, specific leaf weight (SLW), leaf area index (LAI), total leaf area and weights were determined for flag leaves at four harvests from anthesis to maturity. Short, narrow-leaf cultivars had significantly smaller flag leaves but high leaf numbers per unit area. Plans appear to compensate for low leaf area per blade by producing more tillers. Large-leaf cultivars exceeded short, narrow-leaf cultivars for flag leaf area, flag LAI, area per leaf and leaf weight. Specific leaf weight was not consistent when harvested over dates; however, flag LAI remained constant. Grain yields were more closely correlated with harvest index (HI) (r = .88**) and leaf weight (r = .69**) than with other traits. High grain yield and HI can be obtained from either a large- or short-leaf cultivar.
23783857|Nitrate reductase and protease activity in the leaves of lines, developed by crossing T. aestivum with Ae. crassa species are investigated. Nitrate reductase and protease activity of the total leaf mass of investigated leaves in Ae. crassa species were lower compared to those of T. aestivum parental cultivar and hybrid lines studied. A considerably greater nitrate reductase activity was found in one of the lines as compared to that of the parental forms and the rest of the lines. Nitrogen content in flag leaves and in grain of T. aestivum parental cultivar and of most of the investigated hybrid lines depended on nitrate reductase activity of the total flag leaf mass. The amount of nitrogen remobilized from investigated leaves of T. aestivum parental cultivar and of most of hybrid lines studied depended on protease activity of respective leaves. The nitrogen content in grain of T. aestivum parental cultivar and of most of hybrid lines studied depended on protease activity of flag leaves.
23781547|Freezing and lyophilization were evaluated as methods for the storage of cultures of Septoria nodorum. In the freezing test, spores were suspended in 50% glycerol, 20% dextrose, distilled water, 20% polyethylene glycol, or mineral oil and stored in a freezer at -35C. After one year, colonies were formed from spores in dextrose, water, and mineral oil. Mycelium was more abundant than in "fresh" cultures, and pathogenicity was greatly reduced in all cases. In the lyophilization test, spores were suspended in a 20% dextrose solution, skimmed milk, and distilled water and lyophilized for 24 hours. A dilution series was prepared with each treatment to evaluate spore viability by comparing the number of colonies produced per dilution before and after lyophilization. Spore survival was good in dextrose or milk with little reduction in viability. After 18 months in storage, no colonies were obtained from spores lyophilized in water. Abundant colonies were produced from spores lyophilized in a 20% dextrose solution or skimmed milk. Both treatments yielded virulent cultures. Lyophilization in 20% dextrose or in skimmed milk is recommended for long range storage of cultures of this fungus because of good survival and no change in virulence. Thus, the technique should eliminate some of the problems associated with the instability of S. nodorum in culture and allow wheat breeders and pathologists to work with stable cultures when screening for resistance to glume blotch.
23783073|Eight Septoria nodorum isolates were preserved in silica gel, by lyophilization, on potato dextrose agar (PDA) under mineral oil, on PDA discs in water, and by spore suspension in water. After 24 months in storage, all isolates were pathogenic on the wheat cultivar Blueboy and percent germination ranged from 81 to 99. Response of each isolate was independent of storage method; therefore, selection of the optimum longterm preservation method depends on the inherent advantages and disadvantages of each method. Each method of preservation utilized, with the exception of lyophilization, was simple, rapid, did not require any special or expensive equipment, required little storage space, and a single vial or test tube could be used for a continuous source of an active culture. Preservation in silica gel, by spore suspension in water, and on PDA under mineral oil were preferred in that order based on percent germination after 24 months and on the advantages and disadvantages of each method.
90003238|The immunomodulating effect of a wheat extract (Immunovet-HBM) feed supplement in pigs suffering from immunosuppression caused by 1.5 and 3.0 ppm T-2 toxin was examined. Immune response was measured after vaccination (day 1 and 5) of the animals against Aujeszkys disease. Specific and non specific
23788070|Five varieties of common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) were tested in field experiments for three years. The aim of the study was to investigate the influence of the variety and environmental conditions on rutin distribution in the plant. The rutin content was determined by micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography in stems, leaves and flowers at flowering stage and in achenes at maturity. The selected varieties differed statistical significantly in the rutin content in leaves, stems and achenes. Krupinka was the variety with the highest rutin content in the aboveground part of a plant. The tetraploid variety did not contained higher rutin level than diploid varieties. Krupinka had the highest rutin content in leaves contrary to the other varieties, which had the highest rutin content in flowers. Weather conditions influenced the rutin content in flowers, stems and achenes. The plant part with the highest rutin content can be different in diverse years.
23783070|Four accessions of Triticum ovatum (= Aegilops ovata, 2n = 28, UUMM) from Turkey were hybridized with induced autotetraploid T. umbellulatum (= Ae. umbellulata, 2n = 28, UUUU). The meiotic analysis of the hybrids showed that the four T. ovatum accessions contain an essentially unchanged U genome.
23790065|A segregation test confirmed that the genes present on chromosome 1A encoding red and black glumes are allelic to one another. Similarly, the chromosome 1D genes for smokey-grey and red glume coloration are allelic. Consensus maps of chromosomes 1A and 1D carrying Rg-A1 and Rg-D1, respectively, were derived from extant genotypic data. The Gli-B1 associated microsatellite MW1B002 mapped 2cM proximal from Rg-B1. The association of red glume coloration with specific MW1B002 alleles is described for a set of Russian, Albanian, Indian and Nepalese bread wheats.
23784196|Genetic variation for aluminum (A1) tolerance in hard red winter (HRW) wheat has been reported. Our objectives were to characterize the genetic control of A1 tolerance in HRW wheat relative to the tolerant soft red winter (SRW) wheat cultivar, Atlas 66. Hybrid progenies generated from factorial and diallel matings were evaluated in nutrient-solution culture containing 0 (control), 0.36, and 0.72 mM Al. Degree of hematoxylin staining and relative length (% of control) of seedling roots were used as indicators of Al tolerance. The HRW cultivars, Dodge, Wrangler, and HR64, were previously classified as tolerant, but they differed from Atlas 66 in the magnitude of general effects on F1 performance. Degree of tolerance of F1's derived from a common tolerant parent was highly influenced by the susceptible parent genotype. Inconsistent dominance relationships among hybrid progenies confirmed that A1 tolerance in HRW wheat is under complex genetic control. Atlas 66 may possess genes for Al tolerance not present in HRW wheat, since it proved to be more tolerant than any of the HRW wheat genotypes.
90003229|Authors investigated the effects of T-2/HT-2 toxin (2.05 mg/kg feed) in feed on the glutathione redox system and on the lipid peroxidation processes in chickens for a 14-d period. The consumption of high amount of T-2/HT-2 toxin increased the amount and activity of glutathione redox system, which efficiently protected the lipids from harmful peroxidation processes in the tissues investigated.
23785412|Screening for trichothecene detoxifying microorganisms demands a lot of mycotoxin analysis. To enable a large scale screening a rapid bioassay for measuring the remaining toxicity in supernatants of microbial cultures was established. In this studies toxicity of trichothecenes and their microbial metabolites was tested in 96 well titer-plates by growth inhibition of yeast cells. The decrease of toxicity during aerobic incubation experiments was shown. Results of the assay were compared with data obtained from HPLC analysis. This optimized test for 96 well titer plates is applicable for a rapid toxicity testing of trichothecenes and for the screening of toxicity decrease in detoxification experiments, because no extraction or clean up is necessary at all. A large number of samples can be analyzed within a short time.
23789878|Grain and malt traits important for malting quality were studied on a set of 131 genotypes including two and six row types barley of indigenous and exotic origin grown at two locations for two seasons. Observations on seven grain and seven malt traits were recorded and malting was done with Phoenix automatic micro-malting system. The correlation studies indicated that the hot water extract (HWE) is correlated with a number of grain (hectolitre weight, plump %, thin %, protein %, TGW and hull %) and malt (friability, homogeneity, wort viscosity, filtration rate and Kolbach Index) traits either positively or negatively. The multiple regression analysis indicated that hectolitre weight, TGW, hull content and malt friability can be used to predict HWE, the ultimately important trait with malting and brewing industry, in early generations of a breeding programme or for initial screening of germplasm accessions.
23777751|The demand for bread of higher quality and wider range, and for the export possibility of wheat with excellent baking value, and qualitative problems of maize yield of 1972 concentrated attention on the questions of quality in both of these grains. It has not been settled yet, which of Hungary's different crop lands, which degree, from which maturing groups, and in what proportion to cultivate both plants. Environmental conditions, agrotechnical problems, which influence high quality, are also undetermined. In case of wheat the study of local baking value and of which main cultivated varieties to use is the most pertinent in view of the final product desired. The actual value of hybrid maize is set by its efficiency in stock-raising. We suggest to introduce a new category of quality to settle qualitative, local, and agrotechnical questions of maize. This new category consists of determining the caloricity and the biological state of maize at harvesting. The other basic quality indicators of both plants are protein contents and amino acid combination, especially important for us with maize. Great protein shortage stimulates their examination.
23784290|Dwarfism in wheat is controlled by two dwarfing genes Rht 1 and Rht 2 introduced into wheat germplasm from a Japanese variety Norin 10. But search for new sources is going on. In a diallel of seven dwarfing sources of wheat there was a preponderance of additive genetic variance for different height components i.e. I, II, III, IV internodes, peduncle length and spike length as well as total platn height. Tanori 71 and Tobari 66 with positive GCA effects are desirable. While selecting cross combinations it is advised to select parents with differing genotypes with regard to height otherwise the variability in F2 has been found limiting.
23789321|The western corn rootworm (Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte (WCR)) is a major pest of corn in USA. The pest arrived in Croatia in 1995, and today over 250.000 ha are infested. Insecticides are regularly used to control WCR, but the cost is high, can pose environmental risks, and may become ineffective due to resistance. Growing corn that is resistant to corn rootworms would be a valuable alternative to insecticides. Nine Croatian (Institute of Agriculture, Osijek) and two Pioneer Hi-Bred Int. Inc. (Johnston, Iowa, USA) commercial corn hybrids were evaluated for WCR resistance at two locations using complete randomized block design with four replications. One location was in east Croatia (Osijek) and one was in the USA (Iowa). The hybrids' tolerance to larval feeding was rated using root injury, root regrowth and root size. Root injury was rated using the Node-Injury Scale 0-3 and evaluation of root size and root regrowth were done by scale 1-6. In an analysis of variance combined across locations, root injury didn't show any significantly differences among hybrids, but root regrowth and root size were significantly different.
23790033|Winter wheat and soybean were grown under field conditions on chernozem soil of Knezevo, Croatia, for four years (from 2002 to 2005) in three applied soil tillage treatments: a) CT  conventional soil tillage, based on mouldboard ploughing, b) DH  soil tillage based on diskharrowing instead of ploughing; and c) NT  no-tillage. Both crops showed decreasing concentration of Zn within the plant tissue as a result of the soil tillage reduction in the order CT>DH>NT, presumably due to the limited roots growth in lesser disturbed soil at DH and NT treatments. Winter wheat recorded generally lower than optimal Zn concentrations and higher P:Zn ratios at reduced soil tillage treatments, as a result of lower Zn uptake. The recommendation for the winter wheat production by reduced soil tillage is additional Zn fertilization, whose exact amounts and way of application shall follow further research.
23783773|The degree of tolerance of maize (Zea mays L.) to corn rootworm (Diabrotica spp.) larval feeding may be affected by root system growth after insect feeding damage. This study evaluated the change in root pull resistance (RPR; as determined by the subtracting the root pull resistance at the time of maximum larval feeding damage from the root pull resistance measured 17 days later) caused by western corn rootworm (D. virgifera virgifera LeConte) larval feeding damage in single-cross maize hybrids which were popular with corn producers during three successive 10-yr eras. The 2-yr field study was conducted as a split-split plot with plant population as main plot treatments, rootworm infestation level as subplot treatments, and plant hybrid as sub-subplot treatments. Increased plant populations reduced vertical root pull resistance and delayed root development (as measured by the number of nodes producing root axes). Under dry soil conditions, there was a significant plant population x infestation level x hybrid interaction because increased rootworm larval feeding damage and plant population reduced RPR to a great extent in 1960-era hybrids, while the 1980 and 1970-era hybrids were relatively unaffected. Under wet soil conditions, there was no significant effect of infestation level or plant population on RPR, and no significant 3-way interaction. However, RPR of 1980 and 1970-era hybrids was greater than that of 1960-era hybrids. When the change in root pull resistance after rootworm larval feeding is considered, maize hybrids popular in the 1970's and 1980's were more tolerant than the 1960-era hybrids under high plant populations and dry growing conditions.
23777670|This study involved the incidence of brown rust (Puccinia recondita f. sp. tritici) on a susceptible cultivar Kalyansona (KS), an immune strain EC 93151 and the F1, F2, F3 and biparental progenies (of the F2 generation plants) of their cross. The plants of all of these generations were infected with a mixture of prevalent races of brown rust. The rust scores were recorded at intervals after its appearance. The immune plants among the segregating generations were rejected with a view to eliminate the effect of vertical genes. The diseased plants of the segregating generations had lower infection rates and gentler infection curves as compared to those of the KS. This was attributed to the horizontal resistance controlled by minor genes which were contributed by EC 93131. However, no clear cut differences could be detected when different segregating generations were compared with each other. The importance of minor genes in raising the level of horizontal resistance and method to conserve it in breeding materials has been discussed. The obvious difficulties of measurement of disease and sampling errors involved were pointed out.
23783767|The grain, flour and dough quality of several crosses of hexaploid tritordeum, amphiploid derived from the cross Hordeum chilense Roem. et Schulz. x Triticum turgidum conv. durum Desf. em. M.K., were studied along with their common tritordeum parent. Small-scale tests, commonly used for evaluating quality in cereals, together with the alveograph, were performed. In general, the hexaploid tritordeum exhibited quality characteristics similar to those of bread wheat and very different of durum wheat. Nevertheless, some genetics differences were found between the crosses used in this work. H. chilense seems be the cause of the most of these differences. Furthermore, because the wide range of variation for some quality characters in the small sample of tritordeums investigated in this study, it seems feasible the attainment of good quality tritordeum, using the broad collection of new synthesized tritordeums and well-established breeding procedures.
23789642|The objective of research was to determine grain yield, hectoliter weight, grain proteins and starch content of 17 winter barley cultivars from trials at four locations (Tovarnik, Nova Gradiska, Pozega and Osijek) and during three years (2002 to 2005). All traits were significantly influenced by year (Y), location (L) and genotype (G) while sowing rate (300 and 450 seeds per m2) and genotype*sowing rate (G*D) did not affect trait means (P>0,05). Interactions as year* sowing rate (Y*D), location*sowing rate (L*D) and year*location*sowing rate caused significant influence to grain yield and proteins and starch content in grains. Regression coefficient "bi", ecovalence "Wi" and variance of deviations from regressions "S2di" pointed out best performance of cultivars Barun, Bingo and Gvozd in more intensive growing conditions due to its top yielding, lowest proteins and rich starch content of grains. Opposite to this, best yield and quality performance of cultivars at low input production could be expected from cultivars Plaisant, Vanessa, Favorit, Lord and Heraklo.
23790338|Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) mapping was carried out in a set of 114 lines of the International Triticeae Mapping Initiative (ITMI) mapping population for null nitrogen fertilization during two agricultural cycles. We quantified phenologic parameters (days to: ear emergency time, flowering time) and components of yield (number of plants and ears, plant height, leaf area, length and weight of ear, spikelet number, number and total weight of grains and by third in the ear, weight of thousand grains and total yield). Interval mapping resulted of 138 QTLs, of which 47 were catalogued as major QTLs (LOD  3.0) and 91 as minor QTLs (LOD 2.0  2.9). The QTLs were distributed in 14 of the 21 chromosomes of wheat. The data showed that a high percentage of QTLs were in chromosomes 2D (49 or 35.5%), followed by 5A (22 or 15.9%), 1B (10 or 7.2%).
23783862|The effect of intermating in F2 generation on mean and genetic advance in two crosses of wheat WH 416  HD 2160 and WH 416  HD 2329, was studies. The mean and genetic advance of all the five characters viz. tillers per plant, grains per ear, grain weight per ear, biological yield per plant and yield per plant, were increased after first cycle of intermating. Second cycle of intermating further showed its positive impact on mean and genetic advance. It appears that integration of atleast one or two cycles of intermating with conventional breeding programme may prove highly useful in generating poromising wheat genotypes having high yield potential.
90002900|The effect of climatic factors on a wide range of winter and spring cereals was studied in 2005/2006 and 2006/2007 as the beginning of a long-term experiment. Meteorological data were collected and foliar diseases were monitored during the growing periods. The productivity of cereals was compared as influenced by various abiotic and biotic environmental factors. It was found that the extreme weather of the vegetation period 2006/2007 affected cereals in a complex way. Low water supplies from autumn till spring contributed to the weakening of plant defences against viruses and powdery mildew in certain varieties, while warmer temperatures during winter accelerated phenological development of plants and enabled pathogens to appear early, so that the period of infection was prolonged. The diseases, however, also interacted with each other. The unfavourable meteorological conditions and the pathogen attacks resulted in dramatic yield losses.
23782952|The glutenin proteins isolated from laboratory germinated samples of Glenlea wheat were examined by means of gel filtration chromatography. Gel filtration on Sephadex G-200 produced profiles with one major protein peak (molecular weight >200,000) and five minor protein peaks. Two carbohydrate peaks co-eluted with protein in the void volume and total volume of the column. Germination affected the relative size of the major protein peak and the two carbohydrate peaks.
23783105|A number of wheat (Triticum aestivum), rye (Secale cereale), and triticale (X Triticosecale) lines were screened to determine the range of variation for RWA resistance under artificial infestation in the greenhouse. The rye and triticale lines were all moderately resistant to resistant and the wheat lines ranged from susceptible to resistant. The highest level of RWA resistance was found in three triticale lines originating from Russia, which is within the geographic origin of the aphid.
23784215|Immature inflorescences of Setaria italica (Fox-tail millet) var. Arjuna varying in length from 0.5-2.0 cm. were cultured on MS medium supplemented with 2.0mg/l 2,4-D (2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic Acid), PIC (Picloram) or NAA (-Naphthaleneacetic Acid) in combination with 0.5 mg/l Kn (Kinetin). Both non-embryogenic and embryogenic types of callus formation were observed depending upon the size of the explant and the growth hormone present in the culture medium. Formation of embryoids was also observed on embryogenic callus. On transfer to hormone free MS medium, calli gave rise to plantlets at varying frequency. Explants cultured on NAA containing medium developed a few shoots from the axil of bracts in the primary cultures, which further elongated on transfer to hormone free MS medium.
90002757|Sorghum has been identified as a preferred biomass crop for fermentation into methanol and ethanol fuel. The adaptation of sorghum to sub-humid and semiarid climates has extended sorghum production into larger regions than other warm-cereal grains. Sorghum can produce approximately 30 dry tons/ha per year of biomass on low quality soils with low inputs of fertilizer and limited water per dry ton of crop, half of that required by sugar beet and third of the requirement for sugar cane or corn. The foreseen results were to test different Sweet Sorghum genotypes to their aptitudes to produce biomass and ethanol production in the climatic conditions of Croatia. The Sweet Sorgum hybrid proved to be very valuable and well adapted to the conditions of Croatia, outlined by high productivity of biomass and ethanol production.
23790025|Triticum urartu has been identified as donor of A genome in the polyploid wheats. An amphiploid derived from the cross between one accession of T. urartu, carrying 1Ax + Ay high-molecular-weight glutenin subunits, and durum wheat cv. Yavaros has been synthesised and used as a bridge species to transfer genetic material from the wild to the cultivated wheat. Some quality traits were evaluated in twenty durum lines derived from this amphiploid after backcrossing to durum. All lines were selected for the presence of 1Ax + Ay but maintaining two different patterns for the low-molecular-weight glutenin subunits and grain colour. The lines with red grain showed higher pigment content than those with yellow grain. In addition, the former lines present higher gluten strength than the latter ones.
23789905|With a warmer climate, dry and excess rainfall conditions could become more frequent, severe, and longer-lasting. For these reasons, long-term study had been conducting in Eastern Hungary in the Nyrlugos Field Trial between 1973 and 1990 for obtain relationships between precipitation quantities-, soil agrochemical properties and mineral fertilization on winter wheat yield. The experimental precipitation character was formed by winter half-years (Oct.Mar.), months (Oct.Sep.), pre-months of sowing (Aug.), critical sequential month number in vegetation seasons (Sep.Jul.) and critical sequential month number in experimental years (Sep.Aug). In average rainfall years (equivalent to the 50 year rainfall mean from 1901 to 1950) without any mineral fertilization, the wheat yield stabilized at the level of 1.58 t  ha1. With N, P, K and Mg fertilizer input, the minimum and maximum yields were 2.29 t  ha1 and 3.72 t  ha1. The yield increased to 38.5% (1.00 t  ha1) with the whole NPK and Mg completed NPKMg treatment. On the control plots, the yield grew by 6% during a dry year compared to average year. At N, NP and NK combinations yields were diminished to 12%. Dry damage on yield production dropped to 11% with NPK and NPKMg applications. In dryer years compared to average years, yields were reduced with 31% on the control soils. Yields were lessened for an average year by 42% and 47% with N, NP, NK and NPK, NPKMg loadings. During wet conditions and without fertilization, the yields decreased more dramatically (82%) as compared to dry conditions. The yield was subsided by 61% with unfavorable (N, NP, NK) nutritions and the effect of excess rainfall was lowered on NPK and NPKMg treatments to 59%. Correlations between yield and precipitation during various vegetation periods (control: R = 0.59, N: R = 0.57, NP: R = 0.76, NK: R = 0.54, NPK: R = 0.67, NPKMg: R = 0.71) indicated that optimum yields developed in response to rainfall in the 450500 mm range. Above or below this rainfall range yields reducted quadratically. Results obtained on fertilization compensation [yield loss (kg mm1 and %) of  100 mm precipitation interspace (lessening/+increasing, mm) from maximum yield (t ha1) and its rainfall quantity (mm)] on negative effects of dry climate confirm that minimum and maximum yield losses had have changed among 0% (NP)  114% (N), and in wet 46% (N)  87% (NK). The best models were presented under dry in instance of wheat: NP (0%) and in wet N (46%) loadings. In these fertilization systems in dry conditions the yield loss reductions had been having observed of 28% and in wet 64%, respectively.
23786263|Ten spring wheat breeding lines derived from diverse crosses differed significantly in their response to anther culture and wheat x maize hybridization techniques for the production of haploids. Depending on the genotype, the frequency of embryo induction from cultured anthers ranged from 0.1 to 55.6 per 100 anthers with a mean of 16.3. Plant regeneration from cultured embryos also varied with the genotype. Although the embryos from one line failed to regenerate, those from the nine other lines produced both green and albino plantlets. The frequency of green plants produced per 100 cultured anthers ranged from 0 to 4.73 with a mean of 1.64. Depending on the genotype, 25 to 75% of the anther-derived green plants showed spontaneous chromosome doubling. The wheat x maize hybridization technique was highly effective in producing haploids in all ten breeding lines, although the frequency varied with genotype. The percentage of seed set ranged from 52.7 to 71.6 with a mean of 62.5, but only 19.3% of the seeds contained embryos. About 75% of the cultured embryos developed into green plants. The number of green plants produced per 100 pollinated florets ranged from 2.40 to 12.66 with a mean of 6.29, all having the haploid chromosome number of 21. The line recalcitrant to anther culture produced the highest number of haploids with the wheat x maize hybridization method. There was no evidence of albinism or spontaneous chromosome doubling. The reduced genotype specificity, absence of albinism and ease of application, makes the wheat x maize hybridization technique more efficient than anther culture for the production of haploids in common wheat.
23780407|The development of immature isolated barley embryos in response to variation in the nutrient supply is described. Using in vitro culture techniques it has been found that the nature of the nitrogen source, the sucrose concentration and other factors influence the survival, development and onset of germination of immature cultured embryos.
23782850|In small-plot field trials, allo-infection is considered to be an important factor affecting disease levels. Infection type and infection level of powdery mildew, Erysiphe graminis f.sp. hordei, on spring barley varieties were studied in two trials with different allo-infection pressure. For this purpose the European Earley Disease Nursery (EBDN) and the Expanded European Barley Disease Nursery (ExBDN) were used. Allo-infection pressure did not affect the infection type of the varieties, except when the frequency of mildew races, compatible to race-specific resistant varieties, was low. At low allo-infection pressure, these varieties apparently excaped infection. The infection level generally was increased by high allo-infection pressure. This increase depended on the infection type exhibited in both trials. The highest increase was observed when the infection type changed from a moderately resistant (type III) to a susceptible infection type (type IV). An experimental design in which a homogeneous and high allo-infection pressure is induced seems optimal for determination of the infection type and differences in infection level.
23784237|Bread from corn-starch can be used for dietetic purposes in case low protein and phenylalanine content and gluten-free food is required (patients suffering from coeliac disease, phenylketonurea, and renal failure), as corn-starch has only ca. one tenth of protein and phenylalanine content as compared to the common bread flour and it can be regarded completely free from gluten. From production technological aspect, however, corn-starch is very difficult to handle due to the lack of protein, more precisely, to the lack of good quality protein. The purpose of our work has been to study the effect of the most promising group of additives, the binding agents which can substitute for gluten. Bread volume and crumb penetration have been evaluated and on the basis of the results the technological effect of xanthan, guar gum, locust bean gum and tragant has been estimated. Our results have shown that the binding agents can be utilised as substitutes of the technological effect of gluten in gluten-free systems very well, resulting in highly significant increase of bread volume and loosening of the crumb on the level P=0.001. The effect of the individual binding agents is rather diverse. The best quality bread can be produced with xanthan.
23788186|The aim of the study was to determine the effect of various 2,4-D concentrations on the androgenic response and plant development in anther culture of barley. Anthers were either plated directly on the FHG medium supplemented with 20 mg dm-3 of 2,4-D, or pretreated with 0.7 mol dm3 mannitol and plated on an induction medium containing various concentrations of 2,4-D: 0.2, 2.0, or 20 mg dm3. The concentration of 20 mg dm3 was used for 3 days only; subsequently, anthers were transferred onto the medium containing 0.2 mg dm3 of 2,4-D. It was shown that osmotic stress cannot be replaced with the high concentration of 2,4-D. The most numerous embryos, embryogenic calli, and plants (including green plants) were obtained with 0.7mol dm3 mannitol pretreatment and 0.2 mg dm3 of 2,4-D in the induction medium. The auxin concentration also affected the dynamics of embryogenic structure formation and plant development from embryogenic structures. The concentrations higher than 0.2 mg dm3 slowed down embryogenic structure formation and plant development, and they increased the proportion of calli as compared to embryos in plant regeneration.
90003119|The accumulation of different heavy metals (lead and cadmium) in soils, forages, organs and muscle was investigated in a mixed sheep flock (Suffolk and Ile de France). It was part of a long-term scientific program focusing to elaborate a well-applicable quality management system in sheep husbandry. Soils, grass, forage and organ samples of ewes and lambs were taken and the heavy metal content was measured. It was found that the contents of Pb and Cd in organs and meat taken from lambs were lower compared to the same samples of ewes. The main concentration of cadmium content was accumulated in kidneys and livers. One can see that even if the heavy metal contents of forages meet the limits of regulations, this is not necessarily a guarantee for the maximum acceptable heavy metal content of primary products (meat).
23787232|A dispersed repetitive DNA family, IA1, of core size 251 bp, was identified from a genomic library of durum wheat variety MACS-9. This repeat family was present only in Triticum dicoccoides and T. turgidum, out of 12 wild and less cultivated species, and in cultivated species T. dicoccum, T. durum and T. aestivum, all of which comprise the known path of evolution of cultivated wheat. An additional member of 600bp was common to all the species containing the repeat family. While there was size variation among other bands, hexaploid wheat showed a unique band of 2kb. The presence of 251bp family in the above mentioned species indicated that it could have spread in the wheat genome after the domestication of T. dicoccoides and could have carried on to the cultivated tetraploid and hexaploid wheats.
90002799|The winter wheat (
23784193|Genes Sr12 and Lr27 conferring low reactions to puccinia graminis tritici and Puccinia recondita tritici, respectively, in Triticum aestivum and located in chromosome 3BS, were inherited independently in crosses of Chinese Spring (Hope 3B) with Chinese Spring (Thatcher 3B) and Chinese Spring (Marquis 3B) chromosome substitution lines. Since Lr27 was distally located relative to the cetromere, Sr12 was, most likely, proximally located.
23789701|The objective of this research was to determine the genetic gain in grain yield and grain quality accomplished by recently developed domestic soybean elite lines and to determine ways to improve these traits further. Realized gains were estimated by comparing recently developed most promising domestic soybean lines of maturity groups (MGs) 00, 0 and I with commercial cultivars (standards) in comparative field tests during three consecutive years (2002-2004) in Osijek, Croatia. Mean values, broad-sense heritability, genetic gain and relative genetic gain from selection were calculated for grain yield, protein and oil content in grain. The obtained results of biometrical analysis showed genetic improvement in productivity and quality of new domestic soybean elite lines within MGs 00, 0 and I. The high agronomic performances of this breeding material will considerably contribute to the increasing and improving soybean production in our region as well as genetic improvement of domestic soybean cultivars further.
23787238|Callus was initiated from immature embryos of winter hexaploid triticale cultivars Bogo, Moniko, Moreno, Newcale, Salvo and Vero. Salvo was used in its original version (cytoplasm Triticum aestivum) and as alloplasmic (fertile) inbred line (B11) with Triticum timopheevi cytoplasm (SalvoTt). The MS induction medium was supplemented with 4 mg/cm3 of dicamba. Regeneration was performed on hormone free MS medium. In this study, the influence of genotype, embryo size and cold treatment during the induction phase on the culture efficiency were determined. Calli fresh weight, their differentiation pattern and plant regeneration rate were evaluated. On average from 3 to 14 plants per plated embryo were obtained. Genotype, embryo size and their interaction significantly influenced the culture parameters while the treatment of 5 C (10 days) applied after 4 weeks of induction made no effect. Salvo and SalvoTt responded at the highest rate to the culture conditions, however T. timopheevi cytoplasm influenced negatively the regeneration rate. Embryo at late globular or early scutellar stage produced calli with the highest regeneration potential.
90002746|This paper refers to the influence of K fertilization on K, Ca and Mg relations in strawberry cv. Elsanta grown in peat mix, in a plastic greenhouse with vertical pot system. Four fertilization variants (control - 0.72 g K plant
23783903|The recently developed plant growth regulator paclobutrazol (PP333, ICI) and its ' structural analogues diclobutrazol (Vigil, ICI), and triadimefon (Bayleton, Bayer) applied as a soil drench retarted the growth and produced compact intense green seedlings of barley and wheat. The greening effect hypothetically related to the enhanced chlorophyll and/or carotenoid biosynthesis could not be confirmed experimentally.The greening effect was actually associated with the growth compaction induced by the three triazoles.
23790389|Nitrogen use efficiency parameters of twelve bread wheat cultivars were studied in nine environments comprised of three nitrogen applications tested over three years. An environment-by-trait association biplot and a trait-association by environment biplot were applied to understand environmental effects on these traits and relationships among them. The following trait associations were relatively stable across environments: negative associations of straw nitrogen content vs. nitrogen remobilization efficiency, straw nitrogen content vs. nitrogen harvest index and a positive association of nitrogen remobilization efficiency vs. nitrogen harvest index. The selection of genotypes with a high nitrogen harvest index and nitrogen remobilization efficiency could be used in the development of cultivars with desired nitrogen use efficiency. A low straw nitrogen content can also be used as a reliable and cost-effective indicator in the selection of genotypes with high nitrogen use efficiency.
23784216|For constructing a breeding strategy for productivity of winter wheat for the Bulgarian dry conditions, a comparative study of some old and modern cultivars was done, in order to determine in which characteristics the productivity of the modern genotypes registers a progress. That is why in 1993 and 1994 the modern cultivars Sadovo 1, Katya and Yantar were compared to the old ones N 14, N 301 and Okerman by the following characteristics: a/ grain yield and biomass; harvest index and grain volume per unit area ( grain sac); b/ spike characteristics; c/ leaf characteristics A progress for a number of characteristics like grain yield, harvest index and spike yield was established. A progress was noted also for the newly introduced character - grain sac, the reduction of leaf area loss per leaf one week after flowering and the increase of the specific leaf weight. As mentioned above, these characteristics could serve as criteria of breeding for productivity in particular environments.
23789641|The effect of the N, P and K fertilisation on yield and quality parameters of cultivar Zitarka during two growing seasons (2002/03 and 2003/04) was studied. Fertilization increased yield, although only treatment with 200 kg N ha1 yielded significantly higher than treatments with 80 kg N ha1. Protein content increased significantly (P<0.001) with the application of 80 kg N ha1, 120 kg N ha1 and 160 kg N ha1. The highest N applications with 200 kg N ha1 and 240 kg N ha1 increased protein content on the same level as with 160 kg N ha1. Wet gluten and sedimentation value were also significantly (P<0.001) affected by N fertilizer treatments. Although increment of N fertilization increased values of these quality parameters, 120 kg N ha1, 160 kg N ha1 and 200 kg N ha1 treatments showed similar effect, while treatment with 240 kg N ha1 resulted with significantly higher values. Gluten index increased only with applying 80 kg N ha1 while the highest N levels (200 kg N ha1 and 240 kg N ha1) showed dramatically gluten weakening. Considering grain hardness only treatment with 80 kg N ha1 had significant (P<0.001) influence. Simultaneously, P and K did not affect grain yield and quality, neither comparing PK to controle, or N2P1K1 to N2P2K2.
90002640|Isolates of
90002982|Several solutions are available for the replacement of fossil fuels; one is bioalcohol. Bioethanol can be utilized as fuel alone or mixed with petrol. Its by-products are also can be utilized (Sipos
90003265|Predominant
23783915|Porteresia coarctata (2n=4x=48) was crossed both as male and female parent with wild and cultivated diploid and wild tetraploid rice species. Hybridization was successful when P. coarctata was crossed as female parent using multiple and delayed pollinations with pollen obtained from tetraploid wild rice species. However, the resultant hybrid plant was very slow growing. Reciprocal crosses, using P. coarctata as male parent with wild rice species were not successful due to floret shattering problem. When rice cultivars were used as female parents, early and multiple pollinations proved successful. The hybridity of these plants could not be established through mitotic cytology. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) analysis for isozymes Esterases (Est) and Glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (Got) clearly differentiated the F1 hybrid of P. coarctata x O. punctata from parents. Also, PAGE analysis made on some of the selfed progenies of F1 hybrids between rice cultivars and P. coarctata detected variation in the intensity of one major band that was different from the female parent. Because plants of these progenies were apparently like the maternal parent they were presumed to be resulted from fusion of haploid gametes, stimulated by the pollen of P. coarctata. This phenomenon is known as matromorphy. The significance of matromorphy in breeding programs is discussed.
90002904|The first purpose of this research was to find out the efficiency of irrigation water by reduction of applied irrigation doses. The second one, what we are here considering, was to find out the correlation between evapotranspiration of alfalfa measured in lysimeters from one side, and the potential evapotranspiration calculated by different methods (Thornthwaite, Turc, Penman) and measured evaporation by different methods (Class A, Ceracky, Piche, Wild) from other side.
23781530|Interrelationship of lodging with yield and yield component characters was studied using nineteen rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars. In comparison to tall, dwarf cultivars had lower lodging index. Thousand kernel weight and yield per plant of dwarf cultivars were always higher than the tall cultivars but some of them had yield and thousand kernel weight very close to dwarf cultivars. Environmental coefficient of variability was higher than the genotypic coefficient of variability. Heritability was moderate to high but genetic gain was moderate to low. Lodging index was significantly and positively associated with primary branch number, secondary branch number and spikelet number while negatively associated with thousand kernel weight. Pathcoefficient analysis revealed that spikelet number had high positive direct effect on lodging index at both phenotypic and genotypic levels. Indirect effect via spikelet number for most of the characters was high and positive at both the levels while via kernel number at phenotypic level and primary branch number at genotypic level was high and negative.
90002841|The experimental calcareous chernozem loamy soil had in its ploughed layer 3% humus, around 5% CaCO
23783867|The segregating populations of 20 crosses, resulting from hexaploid triticale  bread wheat hybridization, were advanced following pedigree selection on the basis of phenotypic superiority (without considering rye traits) under rainfed and moderately acidic soil conditions. Of the 100 single-plant progenies isolated on the basis of some identifiable rye traits in the F6/F7 generation, 35 were earlier studied for the nature of rye chromatin present in them following chromosome homology analysis in their F1s with 3 bread wheats. Of the 21 lines found to have single substituting chromosomes of rye, 12 had the substitution of 6R chromosome, whereas 3, 2 and 2 lines had the substitution of 7R, 3R and 1R chromosome, respectively. The segregating generations of 45 of these crosses (20 of which involved the derivatives as the female parent) were also advanced upto F8 generation following pedigree selection for phenotypic superiority. It was found that the crosses involving the parental derivatives exhibiting no evidence of rye chromatin threw the highest number of superior progenies. When the parental derivatives involved substitutions, the highest number of superior progenies was observed when the chromosome involved in the substitution was 6R. This further indicated an adaptive advantage to the 6R chromosome of rye in the background of bread wheat under moderately acidic soil and rainfed conditions.
23789854|The hordein proteins of ten barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivars grown in region of eastern Croatia were studied for their contribution to the malting quality, particularly relating hordein influence on malt extract yield. The analysis of hordein proteins was carried out by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). The micromalting of investigated barley cultivars and malt analyses were done according to the EBC official methods. The quantitative analysis of hordein proteins has showed that B-hordein was major component, followed by C- and D-hordeins. Among investigated cultivars the malt extract yield varied from 76.8% (cv. Angora) to 82.6% (cv. Scarlett). Spring barleys had on the average higher malt extract yield in contrast to winter barleys. The significant negative correlation between the total hordein content and malt extract yield was found. Among hordein fractions the B-hordein and D-hordein significantly contributed to lower malt extract yield. RP-HPLC analysis of malt hordeins revealed that the amount of hordein degraded during malting significantly correlated with Kolbach index.
90002703|Our paper examines the energy efficiency and the CO
23779389|A genetical study on the inheritance of first leaf length, seminal root number and length was carried out on the six basic generations of three wheat crosses, namely, S413  C273 (tall  tall) C273  K68 (tall  semi-dwarf) and K68  Sharbati Sonora 64 (semi-dwarf  semi-dwarf). The analyses of means and variances indicated a considerable amount of fixable genetic variation from crosses between types within tall or semi-dwarf height groups. A simple additive-dominance model was not adequate for the analyses of means but in the absence of reciprocal crosses no, differentiation between failures caused by maternal or non-allelic interactions could be made. The net directional dominance in general was caused by the decreasing dominant alleles. The second degree statistics showed adequacy of simple additive genetic and environmental models together with indications of dispersed genes in the parents for root number and root length in S413  C273 and leaf length in K68  Sharbati Sonora 64.
23783940|Wheat leaf rust disease, caused by Puccinia recondita f. sp. tritici was found every year at the wheat country areas in Hungary during 1990-1992, and became the most important wheat disease. The main races in the population were the races 77 and 61. The proportion of the sporadic races in the population increased from 2.6% to 8.6% in the last three years. From Hungarian leaf rust populations 50 virulence forms (pathotypes) of wheat leaf rust have been isolated, among them 20 pathotypes belong to race 77. More than 70 % of the cultures were virulent on lines with genes Lr1, Lr2a, Lr2b, Lr2c, Lr3, Lr3ka, Lr13, Lr14a, Lr14b, Lr16, Lr17, Lr18, Lr20, Lr22, LrB and LrCIFF. Genes for resistance Lr15, Lr23, Lr24 were effective to all survey cultures tested. Resistance genes Lr9, Lr10, Lr12 were effective to 65-75% of isolates in the seedling plants. New pathotypes have been found virulent on the near isogenic backcross lines with genes Lr10, Lr19 and Lr25. The increasing number of sporadic races and the new virulence genes in the population confirmed the increase of virulence of wheat leaf rust pathogen.
23785232|The method of seeding wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) in ridges is increasing in Mexico. This method allows interseeding of other cultivars by planting in the lower part of the furrow and makes it possible to grow two wheat genotypes with synergistic effects. The objective of this study was to make better use of edaphic, aerial and chronological environment by using two different wheat cultivars to increase yield. Three field trials were conducted at the Yaqui Valley Experiment Station (CEVY-CIANO) in Sonora, Mexico during 1991-94. Wheat cv. Oasis F86 was first seeded on beds at 60 cm and irrigated next day. Tepoca M89, Rayon F89 and Baviacora M93 were interseeded at the 1st, 2nd and 3rd irrigations. Oasis F86 yield was 3460, 6194 and 6261 kg/ha for the 1st, 2nd and 3rd interseeding date. The yield reduction in Oasis F86 resulted in 1020, 286 and 219 kg/ha for the 1st, 2nd and 3rd intercropping date. Average yields for intercropped wheat were 3996, 532 and 371 kg/ha resulting in a yield increase of 2976, 146 and 152 kg/ha for 1st, 2nd and 3rd intercropping date. Total yield (Oasis F86 + interseeded) were 6728, 7036 and 6944 for Oasis/Tepoca M89, Oasis/Rayon F89 and Oasis/Baviacora M93, respectively. Intercropping at the 1st irrigation yielded 910 kg/ha more than the average check.
23783035|100 m of thiocarbamate herbicides elevated cuticular transpiration of corn plants near to 300 % of control. Increase of transpiration started after 2 days lag period. Antidote eliminated the effect of the herbicides. It is suggested that transpiration increase is a consequence of enhanced triacontanol content of epicuticular wax.
90003264|Artificial infection ten winter wheat cultivars with
23787177|Symptoms of leaf sheath, glume, and grain spot were observed during field surveys in commercial barley Hordeum distichum L. in Buenos Aires province. Fusarium poae was associated with these symptoms. Pathogenicity tests carried-out with the fungus, under greenhouse conditions at boot and anthesis stages, produced similar necrotic spots. Field test of 28 barley genotypes indicated significative differences in the responses to the pathogen according to the number of spotted grains. The incidence of F. poae in seed samples since 1990 varied between 0 to 7% with 19 to 86% of prevalence.
23784294|The method using autoallohexaploid triticale to introduce genetic material of hexaploid wheat into tetraploid triticale was proved to be successfull. It could be shown by means of the C-banding technique that D-genome chromosomes are incorporated in tetraploid triticale. In a sample of 63 karyotyped plants from five lines six plants were identified with complete D-genome chromosomes in homoeologous groups 4, 6 and 7. In addition, two plants had a monosomic 7DS/7AL translocation. The total frequency of plants with Dgenome chromosomes in the sample was 12.7 %.
90002654|Beef production in Hungary has to meet the challenges of foreign and domestic markets, EU regulations, natural environmental conditions, and the requirements of ecological farming. The prosperity of the beef industry depends on both political and economic conditions. The political climate can alter growing by imposing regulations that control operations or by directly or indirectly subsidizing production. The social and environmental role of the beef cattle sector is equally important: sustaining rural populations and countryside. In the last 10 years however, beef production in Europe has been declining, mainly due to disease crises and the consequent reduction in demand.
90003218|Glycosyltransferases (GTs) play important roles in plant stress responses by glycosylating hormones and secondary metabolites. UDP-glucosyltransferases (UGTs), which belong to family 1 of GTs, use UDP-glucuronic acid in animals, UDP-glucose, UDP-galactose and UDP- rhamnose in plant as sugar donors. Deoxynivalenol (DON) is one of trichothecenes produced by
23781553|The properties of perisperm starches of grain amaranths were examined. It was revealed for the first time that there are two different types of starches in the seeds of A. hypochondriacus L., i.e. glutinous and non-glutinous, like in some cereals. In the other species, A. caudatus L., the starch type was completely non-glutinous. Amylose content, iodine absorption and gelatinization temperature were also studied using the starches prepared from whole seeds of grain amaranths.
23792371|The objectives of this research were to examine the inheritance of leaf rust resistance genes in the Iranian wheat cultivar 'Marvdasht', which is highly resistant to leaf and stripe rusts, and to identify Lr genes present in this cultivar using molecular markers. The genetic basis of resistance to the leaf rust pathogen (Puccinia triticina) in 'Marvdasht' was studied in F 2:3 populations derived from crosses of Bolani (susceptible cultivar)  Marvdasht. Isolates 84-1 and 85-28 of P. triticina, which are the predominant isolates in Iran, were used to examine the segregation of resistance originating from 'Marvdasht'. The results indicated that resistance in 'Marvdasht' to Puccinia triticina isolate 84-1 was governed by two dominant seedling resistance genes Lr1 and Lr17a. Allelism studies using an F 2 population derived from a cross between 'Falat' (Seri 82) and Marvdasht indicated that resistance in Marvdasht was not due to the resistance gene Lr26 present in 'Falat'. With the application of a previously developed molecular marker for Lr1, the STS marker RGA-567-5, the presence of Lr1 was verified in Marvdasht. Based on bulk segregant analysis, Lr17a was mapped to the distal end of chromosome 2AS and was closely linked to microsatellite marker Xbarc212 at a distance of 3.7 cM. In conclusion, the presence of Lr1 and Lr17a was confirmed in the cultivar Marvdasht.
90003024|The aim of this paper is assessment of values of hydraulic conductivity as the important characteristic for determination of permeability or rate of interaction between surface water in the Komransk channel and ground or soil water nearby the channel and also assessment of changes of aggradation state of this channel at the Rye Island channel network in the period from 1993 to 2004.
90002958|Plant height is one of the most important sunflower traits, which has great impact on grain and oil yield. Field trials are conducted on three locations (Osijek- Eastern Slavonia, Karanac- Baranja and Ferianci-Western Slavonia) with different pedodynamic soil characteristics. Investigation includes 7 single cross and 7 three-way cross experimental and recognized sunflower hybrids of The Agricultural institute Osijek during two growing seasons. Single cross hybrids had a slightly higher plant height values in relation to three-way cross hybrids. The lowest plant height value in both years of investigation is obtained on location Ferianci, and the highest in Osijek. In the second year of investigation, in lack of precipitations, plants were lower 37 cm in average. Estimation of IPCA1 values showed that the highest stability had experimental hybrids OS-253 T, OS-H-101 S and OS-H-219 S.
23784262|Immature embryos of F3 lines, segregating for the hybrid dwarfing gene D2 were studied together with their parental varieties 'Florence' (genotype d1d1 D2D2 d3d3) and 'Chinese Spring' genotype d1d1 d2d2 d3d3) for tissue culture response. Six out of eight F3 lines were found with a high rate of callus growth similar to the level of 'Florence', whereas two lines had significant lower callus weights corresponding to the level of 'Chinese Spring'. The 3:1 segregation found did not match the expected segregation of the D2 gene. It is suggested that there is a different dominant gene (or gene complex) in 'Florence' which promotes the callus growth, and the hybrid dwarfing gene does not effect this trait.
23782951|Tissue cultures were initiated from immature embryos of 7 Triticum aestivum L. varieties. For callus induction and plant regeneration GK Kincs, GK Csongor and Jubilejnaya 50 varieties proved to be promising among the genotypes. To examine the somaclonal variation 97 regenerated plants /SC1/ and their progenies were studied, both under greenhouse and field conditions. 17 SC2 families showed differences in various morphological traits as compared to the parental morphology. The characters undergoing changes were as follows: height, heading date, awnes, shoot colour, spike morphology, waxiness, sterility, chromosome number and structure. The degree of somaclonal variability seems to depend on the genotypes. Early and late variants as well as dwarfs seem to be promising for practical breeding purposes.
23783087|A study was conducted to measure the effect of seedling vernalization on Russian wheat aphid (RWA), Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko), damage rating and resistance ranking of 16 wheats (Triticum aestivum L.) and 5 triticales (XTriticosecale Wittmack). Seedling vernalization significantly reduced the RWA damage. Vernalization did not markedly change the cultivar ranking for RWA resistance. The correlation between resistance rankings of the vernalized and non-vernalized wheats and triticales was positive and highly significant.
23782985|A 'gigas' wheat was found to be uniculm when grown at 15 by day and 10C at night under a 16 hour photoperiod. The same wheat when grown under short days for as few as 14 days after sowing produced an average of 3.1 to 4.6 tillers per plant, had more spikelets per ear and reached anthesis later. Vernalization reduced the number of tillers in short day plants from 3.6 to 3.1 but had no effect on the other components of yield. This work demonstrates that the thermophotoperiodic response of 'gigas' wheat could be used to study the effects of tillering within genetically identical material.
23783843|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) plants cv. Maring and its isogenic lines carrying either the Rht1, Rht2 or Rht1 + Rht2 alleles for dwarfism were grown in the field under two N levels (0 Kg N/ha or 100 Kg N/ha at sowing plus 100 Kg N/ha after ear emergence) in order to determine if in field grown plants it is possible to establish a relation between the amino acids pool in the flag leaf and the final grain nitrogen concentration, or not. The isogenic lines carrying any one (Rht1 or Rht2) of the alleles showed higher grain yield and N accumulation than the normal genotype, mainly due to the presence of more ears and more but smaller grains per ear. The line carrying the Rht1 + Rht2 alleles yielded less biomass, ears and N amount and showed smaller ears than the other genotypes, with the same number of grains per ear as the other Rht isolines, but with a marked decrease in grain size. The fertilization treatment increased the grain N yield and concentration, but not the biomass, grain yield or number of ears.In the no-fertilizer treatment the small grains of the Rht1 + Rht2 isoline showed a higher protein concentration than in the other genotypes, while under high N conditions, the normal and the Rht1 and Rht2 isolines increased their concentration up to these same level, showing no differences among the four genotypes. Seven days after flowering the flag leaf had the same total N and soluble sugar concentration in the four isolines, with no effect on the N fertilizer addition, although they showed different concentrations of free amino acids. This free amino acid concentration showed a positive correlation with the grain N concentration.
23777678|Attempts have been made using Sears' 3DL/3Ag transfers to locate locus Ch2/ch2 on Triticum aestivum (bread wheat) chromosome 3DL. It is concluded that this locus is situated on the distal part of 3DL.
23782966|A germplasm bank of cereals (wheat, oats, barley, rye, and triticales) was established at the small Grain Centre, Bethlehem, Republic of South Africa in 1981. Entries consist of named cultivars and outstanding selections. Entries were assigned South African numbers, planted in the field, and evaluated for different characters. Seeds were stored in a cold room (6Ct1) and will be increased as needed or once every 8-18 years. Coded descriptions have been computerized for identification of entries. Research samples (5-10 g) will be available upon request and without charge. A code of ethics from cereal workers in South Africa will accompany seed requests.
90002641|The three year research results of tests with sunflower hybrids in micro, macro and production experiments enabled the proper choice of the most suitable cultivar and in the way high and stabile yield of grain and oil. In unfavorable production years and due to its genetic constitution and morphological characteristics sunflower is susceptible to attack of different pathogens, who significantly decrease the grain yield as well as the content and yield of oil. Field experiments (2005 - 2007) were conducted on two locations (Vinkovci and Osijek) with seven sunflower hybrids: Apolon, Favorit, PR63A90, PR63A42, Heliasol, Opera, NS-H-111. It was determined that grain yield and disease appearance significantly vary depending on the quantity of rainfall, temperatures over the vegetation and selection of sunflower hybrid. The minimal grain yield (1.14 tha
90002984|Beside some quality parameters, fourty four elements were determined by ICP-OES in 19 honey samples from different places of Hungary, in this study. These samples have different botanical origin. Acacia (
23780369|The magnitude of useful heterosis and nature of gene action was studied in a diallel of eight hexaploid triticales. It was found that parents with high mean performance exhibited positive useful heterosis in their crosses. The importance of additive type of gene action for number of nodes per spike, number of tillers per plant, plant height and spike length was observed. In addition, non-additive type of gene action was also found to be important for number of tillers per plant. The variety UPT 7448 was observed to be a desirable parent for hybridization.
23783086|During 1988-89, 5,082 T. aestivum accessions were screened for resistance to Russian wheat aphid (RWA) D. noxia in the greenhouse. Forty-three accessions were initially identified that appeared more resistant than the susceptible wheat check. Thirty-seven of the 43 selected accessions originated from Iran, USSR, and Afghanistan. They comprised 3.4% of the accessions tested from those countries. On the other hand, less than 0.2% of accessions originating from other countries were identified as resistant. A wide range in degree of resistance was indicated by seedling stage damage scores.
23783943|Stalk rot of maize is a complex disease, caused by a number of microorganisms. First of all different Fusarium-species are involved in the development of dry rot of the maize-stalk. The fungus Phaeocytostroma ambiguum (Mont.) Petr. was identified firstly in 1989-90 in North-West-Hungary on stalk rot symptoms showing maize plants. This paper reports on distribution of P. ambiguum in Hungary, based on observations in 1991 and 1992.
23783034|From crossing Avena barbata (2n=28) x A. macrostachya (2n=28) hybrid plants were obtained and, for the greater part, propagated by vitro cloning. The overall appearance of the hybrids was more similar to the male than to the female parent. In metaphase I extensive autosyndesis and sporadic allosyndesis occurred. The results emphasize the autopolyploid nature of A. macrostachya and indicate that A. barbata possesses two closely related genomes consisting of seven pairs of homoeologous chromosomes. The hybrids were sterile, even after cross-pollination and colchicine treatment. Crossing of the hybrids failed with A. sativa but succeeded with A. macrostachya.
23785338|Two field trials were carried out at Lyons Research farm in 1995. Three advanced generation lines and three equiproportional binary mixtures derived from them were grown under two nitrogen fertilisation regimes in each trial. One trial was treated with fungicide and the other was untreated. The primary objective of this study was to assess any agronomic or quality benefits arising from the use of spring wheat variety mixtures under Irish conditions. Even though disease pressure was light, mixtures were superior to components (in monoculture) in terms of powdery mildew (Erysiphe graminis) restriction. Disease restriction in mixtures did not lead to detectable yield benefits. There was no evidence of yield benefits or yield penalties attributable to mixtures and neither nitrogen or fungicide regime had a discernible effect on the performance of mixtures relative to their components. This study also revealed that there were no apparent benefits from the use of mixtures in terms of improved milling or baking quality. Overall, the results indicate that, under the conditions of this trial, the use of mixtures did not have any beneficial or adverse effect. It is arguable that if disease pressure had been greater, or if conditions in general had been marginal, benefits of blending might have been more obvious.
23786044|Intergeneric hybrids of five varieties of T. aestivum with Agropyron intermedium and one variety with Agropyron junceum were produced. It was established that the crossability of T. aestivum with A. intermedium expressed by the percentage of viable hybrids obtained depended on the genotype of the parent forms. The crosses of all varieties of T. aestivum with biotype No.2 of A. intermedium had the highest per cent of seed-setting. Cytological analysis in MI of the meiosis of F1 hybrids was performed to determine the character and degree of chromosome pairing. It was established that genotype had an essential influence on the degree of chromosome pairing and on the effect from the action of the genetic system of the 5B chromosome in the hybrids. A conclusion was drawn for the presence of chromosome populations in T. aestivum as regards the genetic system of the 5B chromosome controlling the chromosome pairing. In three of the studied varieties the sterility of hybrids was surmounted and backcross derivatives were produced. It was established that the efficiency of backcrossing of wheat - wheat grass hybrids was determined up to a great extent by the genetic basis of the varieties included in hybridization as well as by the character of the backcross combination.
23778566|Seeds of each of three cultivars of spring wheat were germinated on blotters wetted with solutions of mannitol approximating osmotic potentials (O.P.) of 12 and 24 atm and in distilled water. Significant variation in rate of germination due to cultivars and O.P. was detected; the interaction was not significant. The greatest effect was expressed between 0 and 12 atm O.P. 'Thatcher' always had the highest rate of germination, and it was the only cultivar to germinate at 24 atm. 'Fortuna' and 'Short Rescue' had similar germination percentages at 0 and 12 atm. For total germination, in addition to the main effects of cultivar and O.P., the cultivar x O.P. interaction was statistically significant. Total germination of Thatcher was similar at 0 and 12 atm O.P., but Fortuna and Short Rescue were lower. Thatcher is apparently most tolerant to mannitol-induced, osmotic stress.
90003242|A field experiment with 26 maize hybrids including two genetically modified (Bt-transformation) ones and their non-transgenic counterparts was aimed to observe infection by maize ear rot caused by
23783809|The uniculm phenotype has been proposed as a component of a small grains ideotype that maximizes productivity. However, its effect on malting quality of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is unknown. The objective of this study was to assess the effect of the uniculm phenotype, as conferred by the uc2 gene, on important traits that determine malting quality of barley. The barley cultivars 'Kindred' and 'Morex', along with their near-isogenic uniculm lines, were grown for two years at Palmer, Alaska, and grain samples were evaluated for malting quality. Kernel weight and plumpness were higher for the uniculm lines. However, barley protein, fine minus coarse extract, and wort protein were undesirably higher in the uniculm lines. Malt extract was significantly lower in the uniculm lines. Because of the negative effects on malting quality associated with the uniculm phenotype, it does not appear useful in the development of improved malting barley cultivars.
90003062|Productivity of barley canopy like other plant ecosystems is depended on photosynthesis, which as a key process of biomass production, is very sensitive to environmental stress conditions. The results show that leaves located in different parts of canopy were characterized by diverse sensitivity to stress. We recorded more rapid loss of leaf water content in lower situated dehydrated leaves in compare with upper canopy leaves that result in decrease of stomatal conductance and reducing of carbon assimilation. Tendency of performance index, a fluorescence parameter, was similar. Dehydration of lower located stressed leaves cut down performance index already at mild stress conditions.
90003494|A long-term field experiment on microelement contamination was set up in spring of 1991 on a calcareous chernozem soil. Salts of 13 microelements (AlCl
23788178|Genetic engineering of cereal crops could be refined and made more publicly acceptable by the use of promoters that direct transgene expression to particular organs at defined stages of plant development. A fusion between the barley Lem1 promoter and green fluorescence protein was used to transform bread wheat. Expression analyses showed that the Lem1 promoter is active in the organs surrounding the wheat floret at anthesis. It is not active in other vegetative and seed tissues. The organ specificity and developmental regulation of the Lem1 promoter suggest that it would be useful for engineering Fusarium head blight resistance in wheat.
23783718|In two cvs of durum wheat (Capeiti and Karel) differences in calibre and number of the xylematic vessels of roots, culm and leaves have been found. The particular adaptability of each of the two varieties in different conditions of water availability in the soil has been discussed with reference to the difference of the two vascular systems in allowing the flow of the ascent sap from sites of water-uptake (soil) to synthesis (leaf) and storage (kernel) loci. To obtain genotypes able to overcome hydric stress conditions, it is suggested to select the best combination of these quantitative and multigenic traits.
23779085|Progeny from a 6  6 diallel cross of six-rowed spring feed barley was grown from F1 to F6 - with the exception of F5 - as series of replicated field experiments. From the F2, 50 plants were taken at random of each reciprocal side, and propagated by the single seed descent method, maintaining line identity. This way a very close genetic similarity of the populations was assured in the later generations. In this situation, genotype-environment interactions were not significant. Growth room experiments, with moisture stresses imposed on the F1 of the same diallel at critical periods, also displayed relatively low genotype-environment interactions. Attempts are being made to select lines with relatively stable performance, using different statistical methods.
23780325|Five hexaploid winter triticale lines representing a range of trypsin inhibitor levels were intercrossed in all possible diallel combinations. A trypsin inhibitor assay was performed upon the F2 seed from F1 plants and the resultant data were analyzed according to the Mather-Jinks diallel model. Tests of array variance and covariance indicated that epistasis was absent within the range of genetic material included in this study. The dominance effects were significant (P<.01), approaching complete dominance in the direction of low trypsin inhibitor content. The narrow sense heritability (h2=0.46) for trypsin inhibitor content was sufficiently large that selection against the trait should be effective in early segregating generations (F3 or F4).
23778583|The boeoticum - urartu amphiploid was highly fertile and resembled tetraploid wheats T. dicoccoides and T. araraticum in several spike and spikelet characteristics. The speltoides - urartu and speltoides - monococcum amphiploids were extremely sterile and did not account for the morphology of the tetraploids. The tetraploid wheats presumably originated from amphiploids involving T. boeoticum and T. urartu rather than the one involving either of the diploid wheats and Ae. speltoides.
90003274|The objective of this study was to identify crop production factor, associated with FHB development in Serbian wheat. FHB index and weight losses, varying from 16% to 74% and from 1.8% to 38.3%, respectively, indicated that enviromental conditions were the most important factor affecting disease development and yield losses.
23787186|Although the role of roots in plant performance and in tolerating environmental stresses is unquestionable, no much emphasize have been given to roots because of difficulty in assessing root traits. Sixteen barley mutant genotypes, a representative sub-set of a barley mutant collection maintained at Akdeniz University, Turkey, two wild-type cultivars, Kaya, Quantum and one exotic cultivar, Baronesse, were evaluated to assess variability and interrelationships in root traits. The material was grown in a container filled with cocopeatperlite mixture in a randomized complete blocks design with two replicates in a greenhouse. The longest root length, total root length, shoot length, number of primary root, root dry weight, shoot dry weight and root/shoot dry weight ratio were measured on the 7th, 14th and 21st day, respectively following the sowing date of the genotypes. There were statistically significant differences (p< 0.05) among genotypes for all characters studied. The early heading mutant, M-K-1, selected from Kaya, was superior for total root length and the longest root length comparing with the rest of entries whereas Quantum and its mutant, M-Q-54, had generally superior means for most of the traits measured. The highest broad-sense heritability estimated by variance components method (91 %) was obtained for root dry weight in this population. Regarding relationships among the traits, the strongest correlation was obtained between the longest root length and the total root length (r=0.953**). It was finally concluded that the mutants selected for above-ground characters are also of significant variability for root traits as part of the mutation spectrum.
23782973|Six spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars were crossed in diallel and the F1, F2, and parents evaluated in replicated design in the field to determine the nature of combining ability governing harvest index and grain yield. General combining ability (GCA) effects were of major importance for grain yield and harvest index while specific combining ability (SCA) effects were of little or no consequence. Correlations of GCA effects for F1 and F2 grain yield and harvest index were significant and both the grain yield and harvest index were controlled by additive effects of genes. Grain yield was associated with non-grain yield and height, but harvest index was not. These findings suggest that the use of harvest index as a selection criterion for grain yield would be beneficial when utilized in conjunction with non-grain yield and height.
23787248|Sixty wheat lines were studied in Hungary and South Africa to determine their reaction to Diuraphis noxia (Kurdjumov). Plants were infested with D. noxia at the two-leaf stage and scored on a scale of one to ten for Russian wheat aphid damage after one, two and three weeks. A score of one indicated very high resistance and ten extreme susceptibility. A free choice test was conducted to evaluate antixenosis effect of the wheat lines. Antibiosis of 50 wheat lines was determined with the embryo count method. None of the Hungarian lines proved to be resistant in Hungary or South Africa. Based on the damage rating scores, the resistant lines were resistant in South Africa, but all were susceptible in Hungary. They showed characteristic leaf rolling and yellow stripes one week after infestation. The highly resistant line Halt was most severely damaged with most plants dead three weeks after infestation. Host plant choice tests did not reveal the presence of antixenosis in the lines examined. In Hungary almost all lines were included in the group showing least antibiosis except for MV Emma, MV 17, Gariep and Limpopo. In South Africa the susceptible MV Magma and MV Magvas and the resistant Elands, Caledon, Gariep and Halt seemed to possess some level of antibiosis.
23781554|Variation of chlorophyll concentration among soft red winter wheat (Triticum aestivum em L. Thell) cultivars were studied for seven cultivars. Cultivars that differed in visual leaf color were grown in the field at two pH levels (5.2 and 6.1). Cultivars differed significantly for chlorophyll characteristics expressed on a fresh weight, dry weight, and leaf area basis. "Dark" cultivars were significantly higher than "light" cultivars for total chlorophyll, chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, and the ratio of chlorophyll a:b when expressed on a fresh weight and leaf area basis but showed no differences on a dry weight basis. 'Potomac' (dark) was approximately 32, 37, and 35% higher in total chlorophyll, chlorophyll a, and chlorophyll b, respectively, than 'Arthur 71' (light) when expressed on a leaf area basis. A negative relationship was detected between total chlorophyll and the ratio of chlorophyll a:b. The visual differences between dark and light color of cultivars are apparently actual differences in chlorophyll concentrations.
90002874|An on-farm field experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of lime application on chemical composition, leaf to stem ratio, stem height and herbage yield in dryland alfalfa during a three-year period. The soil of the experiment site was silty-loam, pseudogley (Stagnosols). The experiment was conducted in a randomized complete block design with three rates of ground limestone (0, 3 and 6 t ha
23783754|Isozyme analysis of EST, AAT, LAP, DHPIP and ACP was performed for the first and second generation of spring barley plants derived from anther culture. No variation for all studied enzyme systems was found in the first generation. Appearance of the null allele at Aat 3 locus in the second generation of some doubled haploid lines was considered as epigenetic. Results indicated that gametoclonal variation at the investigated loci of androgenic plants, developed from anther culture using BAC3 medium was not observed in this population.
90003477|Anthocyanins, the main representative of the large plant pigment group, flavonoids exhibit a wide appaerance in plants but their actual physiological role is still unclear. Several stress factors induce elevation of anthocyanin content in plant tissues which suggests their possible participation in the antioxidant defense mechanisms. Duckweed
90003016|Sweet pepper Istra F1 hybrid was grown in a greenhouse on K rich soil. For evaluation of K antagonism, two K rates (55 and 85 kg ha
90002993|The method of base characteristics quantification of water infiltration into soil profile through soil surface was developed. The water infiltration base characteristics are rate of infiltration
90002979|As a part of our research project according to nitrogen flow in soils and vegetable cultures, experiments were made in the nursery garden of our Institute (KF KFK), using large volume lysimeters, sunk in the ground. The macroelement content of tomato leaves and fruits, and acid, sugar and vitamin C levels of tomato fruits were examined. Four different nitrogen doses (0, 60, 120 and 180 kg ha-1 N) were used beside 600 kg ha-1 Cropcare slow release fertilizer in sandy, alluvial and chernozem soils. Total N levels and other parameters were determined in two harvest times. The lowest total N was shown in tomato leaves grown in sandy soil. Leaf analysis clearly confirmed N translocation from the young leaves to the old ones. These observations attract attention to the importance of sampling. The lower N fertilizer doses did not increase N content in leaves, and only the higher N doses increased total N levels in fruit as well. Phosphorus content did not differin young and old leaves considerably, though potassium levels were higher in young tomato leaves, 0.28% on average. Potassium levels in fruit decreased continuously by increasing N doses. Higher nitrogen fertilizer doses increased acid content in tomato berry on sandy and alluvial soils. The biggest decrease in acid level was shown on chernozem during the growing season. Sugar content increased in tomato grown on alluvial and chernozem soils. Nitrogen doses decreased sugar contents in chernozem. The increase in vitamin C levels in sandy soil was slight due to higher nitrogen doses. Vitamin C content decreased slightly in the fruit during the growing period.
23779386|In the three forms of Triticale, wheat and rye, proteins were isolated and then the amino acid composition was determined. The experiments have shown that the amino acid level was different in proteins depending on the forms of Triticale.Some appeared a greater similarity to rye / 11/72 /,and others to wheat.
90002626|According to meteorological/hydrological/ecological forecasts the risk probability, frequency, duration and intensity of extreme environmental events and soil moisture situations will increase in the future. Hungary  as the deepest part of the hydrogeologically practically closed Carpathian Basin  is particularly sensitive and vulnerable against these stresses which may result in serious problems in the water (and nutrient) uptake of plants. Under such conditions the efficient use of soils as the largest
90003371|Way of pollination in sunflower is allogamy and therefore the presence of insects is essential for successful production. Trial material was consisting of six sunflower hybrids that were grown on majority of sunflowers fields in Croatia. Trial was conducted on trial-field situated in Kneevi Vinogradi (Baranja region). Honey bees were transported in Langstroth-Rooth (LR) beehives to the trial-field; three days before sunflowers blooming. Impact of honey bee on selection and production traits of sunflower was expressed as a difference between results gained by free pollination and results under the condition of isolation. The most important pollinator of sunflower is a honey bee. Weather conditions (air temperature, relative air humidity and rainfalls) considerably influenced activities of honey bees during sunflower blooming. Honey bees were mostly active during the days without rain, at air temperature from 23 to 26 C and relative air humidity from 65 to 75 %. The most attractive hybrid for honey bee was hybrid H4. Presence of pollinators resulted in improvement of selection and production traits of sunflower: number of flowers per head, number of full up field grains per head, percentage of pollination, 1000 kernel weight, hectolitre mass, oil content and oil yield. Considerable economic rationale was determined for the introduction of pollination with honey bee in agriculture practice.
90003210|Molecular mapping led to the identification of two major Fusarium head blight (FHB) resistance QTL,
23784281|Frequencies of haploid production in six F1 hybrids and one variety of barley were compared in crosses with maize and Hordeum bulbosum L. Crosses of barley with maize resulted in embryo formation, but the frequency of haploid production in the maize cross was lower than that in the bulbosum cross. The lower frequency of haploid production in the maize cross is attributed to poor embryo development, in spite of the similar high frequency of seed setting. The application of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid after maize pollination may enhance seed development, but not sufficiently the development of embryos.
23777635|This study was designed to determine effectiveness of systemic insecticide control of Hessian fly (Mayetiola destructor (Say)) in wheat (Triticum aestivum (L.). In a greenhouse study, carbofuran at rates of 2.2 to 9.0 kg/ha was highly effective in controlling Hessian fly. Fly infestations were suppressed from 152 flaxseed (100 plants) in the control to 33 and to 0 in the 1.1 and 2.2 kg/ha carbofuran rates, respectively. In a field test with winter wheat, no control of Hessian fly was noted at the 1.1 kg/ha rate when carbofuran, aldicarb or disulfoton were applied to 'Holley', 'Arthur' or 'Arthur 71' cultivars. In a spring wheat study where 'Era', 'Olaf' and 'WS 1809' cultivars were treated with 0, 1.1, 2.2, 3.3 and 4.4 kg/ha (carbofuran), plus seed treatment (carbofuran 75% active FT); all treatments above 1.1 kg/ha were highly effective in controlling Hessian fly. Stand was not reduced by any of the carbofuran treatments. Yield was increased at the higher rates of carbofuran treatments and by the seed treatment.
23783103|The inheritance of incomplete resistance to powdery mildew in fifteen Ethiopian land races of barley was investigated in fourteen three-way crosses, each consisting of two land races and a common susceptible variety. In the seedling stage in the glasshouse and in the adult plant stage in the field a simple inheritance of the resistance was shown. The land races involved possessed predominantly recessive genes. In four crosses a different inheritance pattern appeared in the two stages. This may be due to race-specifity of the resistance genes and/or to adult plant resistance.
23789896|Two experiments to investigate the crossability of Triticum turgidum with Aegilops tauschii are described. In the first experiment, 372 wide hybridization combinations were done by crossing 196 T. turgidum lines belonging to seven subspecies with 13 Ae. tauschii accessions. Without embryo rescue and hormone treatment, from the 66220 florets pollinated, 3713 seeds were obtained, with a mean crossability percentages of 5.61% which ranged from 0 to 75%. A lot of hybrid seeds could germinate and produce plants. Out of 372 combinations, 73.12% showed a very low crossability less than 5%, 23.39% showed the crossability of 530%, 2.69% showed the crossability of 3050%, 0.81% showed high crossability more than 50%, respectively. Among the seven T. turgidum subspecies, there were significant differences in crossability. The ssp. dicoccoides and dicoccon showed the highest crossability, while polonicum the lowest. All the crossability percentages more than 30% were obtained from the crossing of ssp. dicoccoides or dicoccon with Ae. tauschii. In the second experiment, the genetics of crossability was investigated using T. turgidum ssp. durum cultivar Langdon and the D-genome disomic substitution lines of Langdon. Compared with the control Langdon, lines 7D(7A) and 4D(4B) showed higher crossability, which suggested that chromosomes 7A and 4B of tetraploid wheat cv. Langdon carried dominant alleles inhibiting crossability with Ae. tauschii. The relationships of present results with previously reported crossability genes of wheat are discussed.
90003172|FHB resistance in barley are affected strongly by the infection timing. Cleistogamous genotypes are highly resistance at anthesis, however, susceptible at spent anther extrusion stage (SAES). Some of cleistogamous varieties, Russia 6, etc. showed highly resistance to both the infection timing and these mycotoxin accumulation (MA) were significantly low. MA of naked caryopsis genotypes was also low. The resistance at SAES and low MA of naked caryopsis are efficient in the breeding program for FHB resistance.
23790300|The objective of this study was to evaluate the genetic diversity of six popcorn inbred lines and to determine the relationship between combing ability and heterosis for grain yield and popping expansion and genetic distance, using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) molecular markers. The genetic distance based on Dice coefficient ranged from 0.086 to 0.212. The highest genetic distance was found between inbreds ZPL2 and ZPL5. Hybrid combination of these two inbreds has the highest grain yield, grain yield heterosis and popping expansion heterosis. A positive and significant correlation was observed in parental lines between grain yield and SCA with genetic distance based on RAPD markers. The genetic divergence, however, was not enough to determine the grain yield heterosis as well as heterosis and specific combining ability for popping expansion.
90002786|The study was conducted to evaluate the effect of soil on early growth of three white clover (
90003506|The use of pesticides in plant protection has positive and negative effects. The negative effects are known as side effects. One of them is russeting, and the other is early defoliation. Russeting usually appears on cultivars with yellow coloured fruits. Russeting on Golden Delicios apples may be caused by stress like unfavourable weather conditions, especially low temperatures in fruit setting, pesticide application at high temperatures, incompatible pesticide mixtures, etc. Many fungicides, especially those with copper ingredients, can also increase russeting on apple fruits. This paper presents our two-year observations of russeting effect on Golden Delicious cultivars, resulting from stress caused by different fungicides used against apple scab.
23790073|A selection strategy based on agronomic traits was assessed to improve chemical composition of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Two multi-environment datasets were investigated. They consisted of 190 doubled-haploid lines of the Lger/CI9831 cross and of 70 covered spike spring barley cultivars. Phenotypic correlations were assessed for four agronomic traits (test weight, seed weight, plant height and grain yield) and three chemical components [starch, acid detergent fibre (ADF), and total -glucans]. A selection method is proposed on the basis of principal components analyses using genotype x trait (GT) biplots. Heavier test weight (>67 g hL 1 ) was a better predictor than kernel weight for the selection for lower ADF (<55 g kg 1 ) which is a desirable quality trait in feed barley. The negative correlation measured between test weight and ADF in both datasets has never been reported before in barley. Two-row barley genotypes suitable for improving the quality of feed barley were identified using the GT Biplot method.
23787210|A suitable sampling technique is very important to determine temporal and spatial genetic variability among wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV) strains. In order to understand the population dynamics of WSMV and its vector, wheat curl mite (WCM, Aceria tosichella Keifer), mobile nurseries containing wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seedlings (1236 plants) were placed in three Nebraska counties at different sampling times in 1999 and 2000, from grain filling to post-harvest of wheat. Approximately 60% of the samples were recovered from the fields (about 40% were lost to biotic and abiotic stress conditions) and were examined for mosaic symptoms tested by and ELISA (enzyme linked immunosorbent assay). The number of mites on each plant sample was also determined. The samples that had mites, mosaic, and were positive in ELISA and were analyzed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) method to determine the genetic variability among virus isolates. Alu I restriction endonuclease resulted in 12 different coat protein genotypes which were used to determine intra- and inter- group genetic variation in natural WSMV populations. Three main genotypes were predominant with the others being related minor or mixed genotypes. The genetic diversity among groups (i.e. regions, sampling dates, and years) was less than 10% (p<0.05). Most of the genetic diversity (90%, p<0.005) was observed among individuals within each population. Mobile nursery sampling methods were successful in determining the spread and population dynamics of WSMV in different times and regions from stage to stage.
23790386|Twenty wheat varieties were analyzed to assess the contribution of 40-year breeding process to the advancement of wheat technological quality. A trial using a randomized block design with three replications was carried out during five growing seasons (20012005) that varied in temperature and rainfall conditions. Changes of quality were analyzed in the varieties from different breeding periods using linear regression analysis. Changes of quality indicators were expressed by regression coefficients. The studied varieties were released at 34-year intervals. The annual changes in genetic potentials were as follows: protein content  0.03%, wet gluten  0.14%, farinograph absorption  0.04%, dough energy  1.53 cm 2 , loaf volume  2.94 ml, and baking score  0.07. The decreases in the protein and wet gluten contents were compensated for by an improvement in protein quality. The increase in gluten structure stability and appropriate combinations of high molecular weight glutenin subunits have contributed to the improvement of other quality indicators.
90003472|The remote sensing technologies provide the most suitable solution for the examination and the monitoring of the stress effects of soil and plant on a vast area.
23787249|Field research was undertaken to determine the effects of potassium (60-kg/h) and nitrogen (40-kg/h) fertilization and their combinations on grain yield, 1000-grain weight and severity of wheat to septoria tritici blotch for 2 seasons. Two Syrian wheat cultivars, Bohuth 6 (Triticum aestivum L.) and Bohuth 5 (T. turgidum var durum Desf.) were used in this study. Potassium decreased disease severity of Bohuth 5 and Bohuth 6 by 11 and 46%, respectively, which was associated with increased grain yield by 13 and 22%, respectively. Fertilizer nitrogen decreased disease severity of Bohuth 6 by 38% with a 25% increase in grain yield. Improved potassium nutrition enhanced plant development, increase kernel weights, by 21.8% in Bohuth 5 and by 33 % in Bohuth 6. Nitrogen application also increased kernel weights by 16% in Bohuth 5 and 11.5% in Bohuth 6. Highest yield losses from septoria tritici blotch occurred in nil fertilization treatments. It suggested this approach might be considered in wheat growing areas suffering from this disease in Mediterranean and similar environments.
90003349|As the number of hybrids requiring new and more intensive cultivation methods is growing, the importance of fertilization has significantly increased in sunflower production; the determination of the exact fertilizer need as a hybrid specific cultivation method is becoming more important. In 1999 the capability for nutrient uptake of hybrids showed great differences, the control yield ranged between 3300-3600 kg ha
23789694|Maize and soybeans were grown under field conditions on acid soil (pH in KCl = 3.99). The field trail was conducted in spring 2004 as follows: a = ordinary fertilization, b = a + NPK-1, c = a + NPK-2, d = a + NPK-3 and e = a + NPK-4. The fertilizer NPK 10:30:20 was source of P and K (using in amounts 416, 1249, 2082, 2916 and 3748 kg/ha, for the treatments a, b, c, d and e, respectively. Nitrogen amount was equilized for all treatments by addition of adequate quatities of CAN (calcium ammonium nitrate: 27% N) were used. The experiment was conducted in four replicates. By application of the ameliorative rates of NPK fertilizer, grain yields of maize significantly increased to level of 14% compared to standard fertilization (12.33 and 14.00 t ha1, for the control and the second rate of NPK fertilization, respectively. Only the highest rate of NPK fertilizer resulted by significant increase of protein in grain. Residual response of soybean (the growing season 2005) to the fertilization was considerably higher compared to maize, because yields of soybeans were increased up to 32%. Protein contents in soybean grain were independent on the fertilization, while oil contents were increased up to 0.66% compared to the control.
23789993|Genetic diversity of 48 Pakistani wheat varieties and 12 landraces was assessed, loss of genetic diversity in bread wheat during the change from traditional landraces (LVs) to modern breeding varieties was examined, and recent trends of national wheat breeding programmes were identified. A total of 29 SSR markers, representing at least one marker from each chromosome of wheat, were used to analyze the genetic diversity. A total of 80 alleles were generated by the 29 loci with an average of 2.76 alleles per marker. A significant loss of genetic diversity was observed from LVs to elite cultivated varieties. Average genetic similarity between landraces was 61% while varieties released after 1990 showed 73% similarity. Range of genetic distance observed between all possible pairs was from 1.41 to 4.90. It was also observed that most of the varieties released from one source showed comparatively lower diversity indicating the utilization of common elite breeding material or interbreeding of released varieties.
23785393|The efficacy of diphenhydramine, triazolam, diltiazem, and ketotifen on the acute toxicity of T-2 toxin, a potent cytotoxic trichothecene mycotoxin, was investigated. Mice were received triazolam (20 or 40 mg/kg, sc), diltiazem (5 mg/kg, sc), or diphenhydramine (50 mg/kg, sc) 24, 18, 1 hr before and 6 hr after injection of T-2 toxin (1.8 mg/kg, ip). In other experiments, mice were either administered ketotifen (70 mg/kg, sc) 13, 7, 1 hr before and 5 hr after T-2 toxin (1.8 mg/kg, ip) or ketotifen (40 or 70 mg/kg, ip) 4 hr before T-2 toxin (1.8 mg/kg, ip). The acute lethal toxicity and change in body and organ weights (including liver, spleen, and kidneys) were evaluated. Among these drugs, only diphenhydramine prolonged the survival times. When mice received ketotifen (70 mg/kg, sc) 13, 7, 1 hr before and 5 hr after T-2 toxin (1.8 mg/kg, ip), it caused a protective effect against T-2 toxin-induced splenomegally and weight change. Triazolam (20 or 40 mg/kg, sc) also produced a protective effect against T-2 toxin-induced weight change. It is concluded that antihistamines might have some protective effects against acute T-2 toxin toxicity..
23777640|Four seed size classes from three triticale (Triticale hexaploide Lart.) cultivars, 6TA 131, 6TA 385, and 6TA 419 showed that plants from large seed were superior in total germination, seedling dry weight and in seedling establishment than those from small seed. Large seed of a given cultivar gave 51% higher field stand, 62% more seedling dry weight and 37.8% higher grain yield than plants from small seed. Increase in total germination, field stand and seedling dry weight were significantly related to seed size. Increase in grain yield was apparently caused by increase in seedling dry weight and higher seedling establishment rate. Each cultivar showed considerable variations for the characters studies.
23783048|Sixty eight wheat cultivars of 11 classes currently registered in Canada for commercial production have been analyzed by two types of electrophoresis (PAGE and SDS-PAGE) and by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The results have been compiled into a catalog which can be obtained from the authors. The catalog includes a list of relevant references and records the details of the three methods. The information should be useful for cultivar discrimination and identification in relation to wheat variety improvement, variety registration, seed production, grading, and in research on wheat quality and genetics. A sample of the type of information that has been compiled in the catalog is presented in this note for eight cultivars of the Canada Western Red Spring wheat class.
23785330|This study was conducted to investigate whether DNA extracted from a single barley embryo is suitable for conducting polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. We extracted DNA from one-seed and five-seed samples of four barley cultivars, 'Bowman', 'Colter', 'Crystal', and 'Russell'. Six random-amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) primers and one sequence-tagged-site (STS) primer pair were tested for DNA amplification using both Taq DNA polymerase and the Stoffel fragment, which is a modified form of recombinant Taq DNA polymerase. DNA polymorphism was found with the STS primer and five of the RAPD primers. The banding patterns of DNA from one-seed samples were almost identical to those of the five-seed samples. Additional testing of nine barley cultivars was conducted to compare embryo and leaf tissue DNA PCR amplification results. Our tests indicated that DNA extracted from a single embryo is practical for PCR analysis. The technique we utilized is simple, fast, and can be applied to the identification of barley cultivars.
23782733|The mesocotyl and leaf base tissues were sectioned from aseptically grown seedlings of three durum wheat varieties. Callus was induced on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. The percentage of callus induction changed according to the explant type and the varieties. Plant regeneration was obtained from calli transferred on MS medium supplemented with naphtaleneacetic acid and 6-benzylaminopurine.
23787290|Heterosis and its relation to genetic divergence between the parents was explored in a diallel cross among 8 inbred lines of maize (Zea mays L.) selected from an array of 32 inbreds, derived from 4 genetically and geographically diverse populations, on the basis of genetic distance deduced through Mahalanobis' D2 statistic on 20 diagnostic and agronomic traits. Pooled analysis was carried out for calculating heterosis as the error mean squares at the two locations were homogenous. Heterobelteosis was observed in all the traits under study for many crosses. Among the top ten heterotic hybrids, the highest frequency of crosses were with intermediate genetic distance followed by high genetic divergence between the parents. However, a few crosses with low genetic divergence also fell in the category of top 10 hybrids. It was realized that parents with high per se performance and intermediate genetic divergence produced highly heterotic as well as high yielding hybrid.
23785261|Aflatoxin accumulation in maize (Zea mays L.), caused by Aspergillus flavus, is a serious and chronic problem in the southeastern United States. Identification and development of resistant germplasm are crucial for developing aflatoxin-resistant hybrids. However, a lack of a reliable field-inoculation method is a significant impediment to maize breeders' success. Previously available inoculation methods resulted in extremely high coefficients of variation for aflatoxin. We evaluated four non-injury inoculation methods at five inoculation dates for studying concentration of aflatoxin in contaminated maize kernels. Needle-in-silk channel (NSC) method involved injection of A. flavus conidial suspension into an ear through silk channel with a syringe; toothpick-in-silk channel (TSC) involved insertion of a Czapek medium-covered, conidia-laden toothpick in silk channel of an ear; toothpick-under-hust (TUH) was similar to TSC, except that Czapek-covered, conidia-laden toothpick was placed on the surface of kernels by making an incision in the husk in the middle of an ear; and bag inoculation (BAG) involved placement on an ear of an inoculation bag (a shoot bag) at the bottom of which was placed 5 mL Czapek medium that was covered with A. flavus conidia. The toothpick-under-husk inoculation method was judged most reliable for evaluating aflatoxin concentration differences, as indicated by a substantially reduced coefficient of variation (CV = 20.6%).
23790388|The present work analysed whether grain weight is affected by changes in source:sink ratio in twenty-four durum wheat cultivars from Italy and Spain released through the 20 th century grown under Mediterranean conditions. For this purpose, a field experiment was conducted during the 2002 growing-season in southeastern Spain. Sink strength was modified by removing half of the spikelets, of one side of the spike, one week after anthesis. Spikelet trimming had different effects on both average grain weight and individual grain weight at different positions within the spike. While old cultivars did not respond positively to spikelet trimming, and appear to be mainly sink-limited, intermediate and modern cultivars from Spain increased their grain weight in response to sink reductions, suggesting co-limitation by the sink and source. On the contrary, grain weight of intermediate and modern Italian cultivars remained relatively unchanged suggesting a sink-limitation to grain yield. The differential response to source-sink manipulations observed between Italian and Spanish cultivars could be attributed to their different genetic background, which determines their level of adaptation to harsh Mediterranean environments.
23785224|Intergeneric hybrids were produced between hexaploid wheat cultivars Pak-81 and LU-26 and 3 different accessions of Ae. ovata to analyze chromosome pairing at meiotic metaphase1. Meiotic chromosome pairing in all the hybrids showed significant variation in the frequencies of chiasmata and ranged between 2.10 (Pak-81/Ae. ovata acc: 330487) and 10 (LU-26 /Ae. ovata acc: 361881) per cell. This indicated possibilities of homoeologous chromosome pairing which is helpful in direct transfer of useful characters from Ae. ovata to wheat cultivars through genetic exchange between the chromosomes of the two species.
23785242|The amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) technique was assessed for its effectiveness as a marker system in wheat, a hexaploid species with a large genome (1.6 x 1010 bp per haploid). The degree of polymorphism detected by AFLP among 11 pure lines of wheat was determined and compared with the polymorphism detected by RFLP. Cost comparison between AFLP and RFLP techniques was also made. The appropriate amount of wheat genomic DNA as template in pre-amplification was first determined. All 20 AFLP primer pairs tested resulted in amplification of bands which were polymorphic between all pairwise genotype comparisons. On average, 106 products per genotype were amplified, and for each primer pair used, more than 25 polymorphic fragments detected polymorphism among the 11 genotypes. In comparison, only 61% of 18 RFLP probes tested detected polymorphism among 10 of the 11 lines and each polymorphic probe detected an average of only three bands showing polymorphism between genotype pairs. The AFLP technique is more efficient but less expensive and requires less labor than the RFLP technique in wheat.
23788959|The field experiment was conducted after wheat harvesting (July 1997) on Zemun Polje chernozem. Maize was grown under dry farming system (without irrigation) for three growing seasons (the factor A: 1998, 1999 and 2000). Soil tillage systems (the factor B) included three treatments as follows: B1) zero tillage (direct sowing in non-cultivated soil), B2) minimum tillage (tillage with a soil miller only and sowing) and B3) conventional tillage (stubble field shallow ploughing, ploughing in autumn, presowing soil preparing and sowing). In each soil tillage treatment three levels of fertilization were used as follows: C1) unfertilized (control), C2) the first level of fertilization (kg ha1: 150 N + 105 P2O5 + 75 K2O) and C3) the second level of fertilization (kg ha1: 300 N + 211 P2O5 + 150 K2O). The field experiment was conducted in four replicates. Area of base plot was 25 m2. Under drought stress of the 2000 growing season it was only 6.08 t ha1 or 35% lower compared to 1999. The conventional tillage (yield 9.86 t ha1) resulted by 24% and 84% yield increases compared to reduced tillage and zero-tillage, respectively. Using the second rate of fertilizer (yield 8.86 t ha1) increased yields by 17% and 32% compared to the first rate and non-fertilized treatments, respectively. Weeds infestations (weeds m2) under conventional tillage was considerably lower (7) compared to reduced (39) and zero-tillage (46).
90002988|In the paper is solved the impact of climate change to selected hydrological balance members in the lowland region, specifically at the locality Bodiky. Climate parameters for time horizon 2010, which were used as one of the input data sets to modelling, were adapted by climate scenarios CCCM2000 (Canadian Centre for climate modelling and analysis) and GISS98 (Goddard Institute for Space Studies). The selected hydrological balance members were assessed for the homogenous soil profile and hydrophysical characteristics were determined as averages from measured hydrophysical properties of the soil profile.
23787075|Drought stress particularly at seedling stage is a major determinant of wheat production in many parts of the world. This study was conducted with a view to assess the sensitivity of inheritance of seedling traits associated with drought tolerance in wheat. The salient features of the current study were the larger expression of dominance, overdominance and/or epistatic gene interactions under normal conditions for all the characters except of germination percentage. But under drought stress conditions, there was considerable reduction in these interactions. Seed vigour index (SVI) and shoot length were the most sensitive to drought stress followed by root length and coleoptile length on the basis inconsistence of their degree of dominance under both environments. The germination percentage and root-shoot length ratio appeared to be comparatively stable characters over the environmental differences. Additivity with evidence of some epistatic effects influenced the inheritance of the important characters, viz., cell membrane stability, root length, coleoptile length, and germination percentage and seed vigour index under drought stress conditions.
23787256|Wheat quality characteristics are subject to environmental effects, resulting in inconsistent quality. The aim of this study was to attain a better understanding of those variates discriminating between cultivars for breadmaking quality across environments. Ten cultivars were tested for 27 quality characteristics across seven environments. A canonical variate analysis was used. The CV1 and CV2 together accounted for more than 70% of variability in breadmaking quality. SDS sedimentation value, mixograph development time, mixograph point score, alveograph strength and P/L ratio were the major variates discriminating between the cultivars. The cultivars with the best potential and those with the poorest potential grouped together in a plot of the analysis. It was found that the canonical variate analysis as a multivariate analysis can be used by the breeder to assess quality of wheat cultivars, and to make quality selection more effective.
23787292|Restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP) of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplified nuclear ribosomal DNA intergenic spacer (IGS) region were used to analyze genetic variability among Pyrenophora graminea isolates collected from diverse regions of Syria. The IGS region was variable among isolates and 20 unique haplotypes were detected. The phylogenetic analysis of IGS-RFLP profiles enabled the isolates to be clustered into three different groups. There was limited resolution between clustering isolates and their origins. The phylogeographic distribution pattern suggests a seed-borne dispersal of Pyrenophora graminea.
90003417|Chlorophyll fluorescence is a light with specific wavelength which is emitted by plants as a waste of unused sunlight energy and its intensity depends on many stress factors. Methods based on chlorophyll fluorescence measurement are perspective for the assessment of herbicide efficacy and their phytotoxicity for grown crops. Current methods are mainly based on subjective assessment of treated plants by human senses, which can cause some inaccuracies. A fluorescence camera FluorCam is able to determine differences and intensity of fluorescence emitting caused by spreading herbicides in plant. We can assess their distribution in leaves, speed and effect on plant health. This method is non-invasive, non-destructive, fast and very sensitive. In the experiment, six herbicides were tested and assessed using a parameter called Quantum yield of fluorescence (QY). Treated experimental plants of redroot pigweed (Amaranthus retroflexus) were measured using a FluorCam at 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 9 and 15 days after treatment and results were compared with current subjective assessment and growth parameters. Herbicides with active ingredients dicamba, bentazone, mesotrione, terbuthylazine, nicosulfuron and glyphosate-IPA were used in 100% registered doses in the experiment. The results showed that the effect of herbicides with active ingredients bentazone, mesotrione, terbuthylazine was detected earlier by QY than by any other parameter. Subjective assessment was the best parameter for detection of dicamba, nicosulfuron and glyphosate-IPA. We can say that measuring of QY values is suitable for herbicides that affect plant photosynthesis and can be used for herbicide assessment together with main subjective assessment for other herbicides as a supplementary parameter.
90002875|The primary energy production of the European Union has been continuously decreasing during the last years. According to the data referring to the EU-25 states, energy production will be lower by 6% in 2030 than it was in 2007. This will result in the increase of the EUs energy dependence, therefore the increase of the proportion of renewable energy resources is a strategic interest for all Member States of the EU. Among renewable energy resources, Hungary has its big opportunities in the energetic utilization of biomass that is mainly of agricultural origin. The aim of this study is to give answer to the land utilization question basically determining the success of biomass utilization of energetic purposes concerning Hajd-Bihar county and its neighboring Bihor county in Romania.
90003498|Organic fertilizers evaluations should describe quality from productivity and environmental points of view. The aim of this paper is to describe computer model for evaluation of organic fertilizers impact on plant nutrition and environment and to compare plant nutritional and environmental values of different fresh and composted manures. Four different manures (dairy cow manure, horse manure, separated pig manure and chicken manure) were sampled and analyzed for macroelements (N, P, K, Na), micronutrients (Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, Mo, Ni, Cl) and harmful metals (Cd, Co, Cr, Pb) contents in a fresh manure and after 9 months of composting. In addition to that, C/N and NH
23782827|By utilising two existing single alien chromosome substitutions in the Bread wheat cv. Chinese Spring, a multiple substitution of two alien chromosomes into one line was achieved. This has chromosomes 1U of Aegilops umbellulata and 4S1 of Aegilops sharonensis substituted for their D genome homoeologues. Telocentric and biochemical markers were used to verify this double substitution.
23783010|Persistent grassy weeds became a problem in sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] continuously cropped on the same land (i.e. in an acid soil tolerance breeding program particularly on soils with pH <4.8). Metolachlor [2-chloro-N-(2-ethyl-6-methylphenyl)-N-(2-methoxy-1-methylethyl) acetamide] and alachlor [2-chloro-2,6-diethyl-N-(methoxymethyl) acetanilide] will control the grasses, but the sorghum seed must be protected (safened) with a herbicide antidote. Flurazole [(phenyl methyl)-2-chloro-4-(trifluoromethyl)-5-thiazole carboxylate] can effectively protect the seed; however, information is lacking on a method to treat small quantities of breeder seed. The objective of the study was to develop a rapid and simple technique to treat 1 g or greater quantities of seed. A plastic bag and calibrated syringe were used to ceat the seed with flurazole based on seed weights of each packet. After treatment, the bag was discarded to eliminate mixing the breeder seed and a new bag was used for the next packet. Approximately 350 to 400 seed packets can be treated per person per 8-hour day. The technique could be adapted for use with other herbicide antidotes.
90002736|The goal of the experiment was to characterize the efficiency of phytoremediation technologies by quantifying the major groups of rhizosphere microorganisms.
23785270|A pot experiment was conducted to compare Baythroid (a nitrification inhibiting insecticide) with nitrapyrin (N-Serve) in terms of nitrogen (N) nutrition and growth of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Nitrogen was applied as (15NH4)2SO4 or K15NO3 at 150 ug g1 soil. Baythroid was applied at 0.4 and 1.6 ug g1 soil and N-Serve at 1.1 and 4.4 ug g1 soil. Form of N did not differ significantly in affecting dry matter yield, but N yield was significantly higher in NO3-fed plants. Neither of the inhibitors had a significant effect on dry matter yield of wheat except the higher rate of Baythroid, causing a significant reduction in dry matter content. The two nitrification inhibitors had a significant bearing on N uptake and its partitioning to grain portion; Baythroid causing a significant decrease at higher rate of application presumably due to lack of cuticular wax and early senescence of leaves. Efficiency of applied N uptake ranged between 37 and 53%. Baythroid had negligible effect, while NServe substantially enhanced the uptake efficiency of applied N. Application of N, alone or along with the inhibitors, significantly increased the uptake of soil N by plants. Baythroid caused an increase in the uptake of soil N, while N-Serve had a slight depressing effect.
90002967|Fertilization reliably increased the SPAD values of maize hybrids in all three years of the striped long-term field experiments having three factors and four repetitions, adjusted on chernozem soil with lime deposits on the Ltkp experiment site of the University of Debrecen, Centre of Agricultural Sciences and Engineering. The SPAD values reliably differed from each other in every year, that was indicated by the significant hybrid x fertilizer interaction. The biggest SPAD value was gained with a N
90002866|These investigations aimed to determine effective concentration of cineole fumigation against
90003176|Kernel sugar content and ear rots resistance are among essential traits for commercial sweet corn production. The objectives of this study were to evaluate hybrids with
23786041|A bioassay condition was developed to evaluate the low temperature response of rice (Oryza sativa L.) seedlings. Under this condition, an indica cultivar `Hokuriku 142' did not survive, while a japonica cultivar `Hyogo-Kitanishiki' showed 100% survival. A cross was made between the two cultivars to obtain F2 and F3 progenies. A frame map with 61 RFLP markers was constructed using 69 F2s, in which the segregation of all the markers was normal. Mean responses to the low temperature treatment of individual F2s were scored based on a 1-5 scale rating using F3s. A normal distribution was obtained showing that the low temperature response at the seedling stage was controlled by polygenes. Thirteen QTLs associated with the low temperature response were detected on the rice chromosomes 1, 3, 9 and 11 by the single point analysis. All QTLs except for 2 on chromosome 9 were with the effect in the same directions to those expected from the parental responses. The interval analysis revealed four QTLs on chromosomes 1, 3 and 11. The QTL-locating chromosomes 3, 9 and 11 show synteny with chromosome 5 of wheat and 7 (5H) of barley carrying genes for freezing tolerance.
23777583|From 9 sources in South-East Hungary 736 isolates of different Fusarium species were identified in the years 1970-1974. Only wheat plants with Fusarium blight symptoms were taken into account. Altogether, 14 species were identified. The number of isolates for the Fusarium species were as follows: 423 F.culmorum, 236 F.graminearum, and 77 for the other 12 species. F.graminearum occured only in the ear region /glumes, seeds, etc./, except for four isolates, while F.culmorum also damaged the stalkbase, crown and roots. It showed the heaviest ear infection in fields, where the stalkbases were also infected. On other fields F.graminearum was the leading species. The great role of F.culmorum and the ear-specialized infection of F.graminearum was surprising. In a breeding program F.graminearum and F.culmorum must be considered seriously.
23784244|A field study was conducted in a fully irrigated area (the Guadalquivir Valley, Southern Spain) with a typically Mediterranean climate in order to determine the effect of four different plant population densities (5.5, 7.5, 9.5 and 11.5 plants m-2) on the growth rate and yield of three maize cultivars (late, semi-late and medium) in 1993 and 1994. Total dry matter, leaf area index (LAI), leaf area duration (LAD), crop growth rate (CGR), radiation use efficiency (RUE) and grain yield were determined. The avoidance of plant stress by irrigation and high solar radiation during grain filling ensured maintenance of an optimal photosynthetically active green leaf area until physiological maturity of the grain was reached. Average CGR and RUE values during grain filling (25.5 g m-2 day-1 and 2.92 g MJ-1, respectively) exceeded those obtained during vegetative growth (23.7 m-2 day-1 and 2.28 g MJ-1, respectively). The highest growth rate and yield (16 t ha-1) were provided by the late hybrid at a density of 9.5 plants m-2. The results reveal maize crops to have a high potential yield on irrigated lands under Mediterranean conditions, and the underlying growth and yield formation patterns to differ from those for crops cultivated in temperate and tropical climates.
23782916|Scalavatis wheats are bread wheat plants occurring in small numbers in durum wheat fields. These plants may or may not be related; they may derive from old and recent contaminations of the durum landraces. In general they have a low crossability with rye. These may have the genotype Kr1Kr1Kr2Kr2. Only a few plants have a moderate crossability. They may have the genotypes Kr1Kr1kr2kr2 or kr1kr1Kr2Kr2. The latter may be related to wheats of TunisiaLybia-Egypt.
23790379|The response of three wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars Banysoif 1 (C1), Sakha 68 (C2) and Seds 1 (C3) to salinity stress (1.11 MPa NaCl) at germination and early seedling growth was investigated. According to the germination, dry weight production and tissue water content, C1 seemed to be more or less unaffected by salinity, whereas C3 was severely reduced and C2 was almost intermediated. Consequently, carbohydrate, protein and free amino acids contents were increased in C1 and C2, while the opposite occurred in C3 (except soluble proteins and free amino acids). On the other hand, while proline content decreased in C2 and C3, it markedly increased in C1 as a result of salinity stress. Na + /K + ratio was higher in C3 than in C1. C2 was intermediate. Significant increase in SOD activity was observed in seedlings of C1 and C2. On the other hand, SOD activity was markedly decreased in C3 cultivar. Seedling extracts exhibited three SOD activity bands (SOD1, SOD2 and SOD3) in C1 and C2. While in C3 seedling, only two SOD activity bands (SOD1 and SOD3) were identified, whereas the SOD2 isozyme was not expressed under control or NaCl conditions in this cultivar. Salinity stress significantly increased POD activity in C1 and C3, but it markedly decreased the activity of POD in C2. Two isozymes of POD (POD1 and POD2) were observed in all groups of C1. The intensity and density of POD1 and POD2 markedly increased under salinity stress versus control group. In C2, salinity stress resulted in disappearance of POD1 as compared with control group. In C3, salinity stress induced the appearance of POD1 which disappear under control group. CAT activity in C1 and C2 was markedly increased under NaCl salinity. On the other hand, CAT activity was markedly decreased in C3. NaCl salinity did not affect APX activity in three wheat cultivars. In addition, lipid peroxidation level of salt-sensitive C3 markedly increased, indicating more damage to membrane lipids due to 1.11 MPa NaCl. Lipid peroxidation did not change in the salt-tolerant C1 at the same concentration of NaCl. C2 was intermediate. These results suggest that at seedling stage, C1 is appeared to be more tolerant than C2 and C3 under salinity stress.
23783003|Harrow HG5 is a winter wheat line resistant to wheat spindle streak mosaic. Most yield advantage over the standard Ontario cv. Fredrick was obtained on a heavy soil infested with vector and virus. In general, Harrow HG5 does well on heavier soils in wetter areas, but less well on lighter, drier soils. Resistance to other diseases, kernel characters, and flour yield and quality are each within the range of those of cultivars grown in Ontario.
90003397|In preparation for the abiotic stress effects likely to be caused by climate change the impact of doubled carbon dioxide concentration and drought stress on two winter wheat varieties, Mv Mamb and Mv Regiment, were studied in growth chambers at the Agricultural Research Institute of HAS. The meteorological parameters (temperature, humidity, radiation) were the same in both PGV-36 chambers but the carbon dioxide concentration was either ambient (380 ppm) or doubled (750 ppm). The effect of elevated CO
90002804|The plantation of
23780324|Detached embryos of genotypes of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) have been cultured on various growth media. Inclusion of the lysine analogue S-(2-aminoethyl) L-cysteine (AEC) (0.37 mM) in the medium resulted in inhibition of shoot growth which could be relieved by the addition of lysine to the medium. The shoot growth of the high-lysine mutant Ris 1508 exceeded that of nine other genotypes on AEC medium, but not on the control medium. However, the normal and high-lysine seeds among the F2 progeny from Ris 1508  a normal variety could not be distinguished by the growth of their embryos on AEC medium. There is no direct relationship between the ability of detached embryos to grow on AEC medium and the grain lysine content of barley.
23783931|The proximal regions of wheat chromosomes rarely undergo recombination and thus it is difficult to determine if some 50 per cent of the DNA of this species has any measurable effect. The genetic effects of the proximal regions of the chromosomes of two cultivars (Chinese Spring and Hope) are investigated using the double-ditelocentrics of Chinese Spring and the Hope substitution series to produce lines in which only the proximal or distal region of a single chromosome is introduced into an otherwise uniform background.
23785410|Until recently, no method was available to identify and quantify individual Fusarium species present within plant tissue. Specific DNA markers have been identified for the Fusarium species which are predominant components of the 'Fusarium ear blight complex' (scab) and 'stem-base complex' of cereals. Assays based upon the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) have been developed for detection of several of these fungi in DNA extracts from plant tissue. These assays have been refined to enable quantification of each species, allowing the relative contribution of each component to the disease of the plant to be estimated. Examples of the use of PCR techniques in host resistance and epidemiological studies involving F. poae, F. culmorum, Gibberella zeae (F. graminearum), G. avenacea (F. avenaceum) and M. nivale varieties is presented. The role of trichothecene mycotoxins in the pathogenicity of Fusarium species towards cereals is also being investigated and visual disease scoring and quantitative PCR are being used to investigate the effects of Tri5 gene disruption of G. zeae on the infection of seedlings and ears of wheat.
90003380|Manifestations of plant stress syndromes have been tracked by the regressions of enzyme activities and metabolite concentrations, respectively. Maintaining the linear character of the regressions, the stress has been established to induce significant alterations in the parameters of the regression. With application of covariance analysis (ANCOVA), significant deviations or identities can be interpreted between the physiological states symbolized by state dependent regressions. Since covariance analysis is able to avoid the breaking effect of standard deviation on comparability of individual variables, it is possible to detect physiological state alteration in a much more sensitive manner by comparing the linear correlations of the variables.
23782957|Barley dried distiller's grain (DDG), untreated and treated with defatting and/or bleaching agents was added at the 15% level to a basic muffin recipe. Standard muffins and those with the altered DDG were compared for volume, batter viscosity and taste. Volume for all muffins with 15% bleached DDG was greater than the standard. All DDG muffins had higher batter viscosity and lower taste ratings than the standard. In a second trial, 1% soy lecithin was added to all treatments and compared to the standard with and without lecithin. Batter viscosity decreased and volume increased for all DDG-containing muffins with soy lecithin. Taste panels rated defatted DDG muffins second to standard muffins, with and without lecithin. The lipids in DDG are believed to be the cause of poor flavor in products using DDG.
23786062|The composition of HMW-GS and D-zone gliadins was investigated in the German wheat gene pool. Gliadins and high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS) from 153 German wheat varieties were analysed using. The most frequent protein combinations found, were 1, 7+9, 5+10 (HMW-GS) and N, d3, d11+d12 (D-zone gliadins) in spring wheat varieties and N, 6+8, 2+12 (HMW-GS) and d9, d2+d4, d11+d12 (D-zone gliadins) in winter wheat varieties. The score of the rapid mix test (RMT) was used to evaluate the influence of HMW-GS and D-zone gliadins on the baking quality. Correlation and multiple regression analyses were performed between the particular gliadins as well as the HMW-GS and the score of the rapid mix test. The baking quality was positively influenced by subunits 1, 2*, 7+9, 14+15, 17+18, 5+10 (HMW-GS), the null-allele of Gli-A1 and Gli-D1, gliadins d2+d4, d3, and d7, whereas the other subunits and gliadins negatively effected the score of the RMT.
23790351|Experiments were carried out with wheat varieties GK Garaboly, GK Kalsz, GK Verecke, GK Petur sown at the thalom experimental station of the Cereal Research Non-Profit Ltd. in monoculture, in a four-parallel random block design. NPK fertilizer treatments of different level were combined with Artea + Amistar Xtra fungicide treatments of increasing doses and spectrum. The fertilizer and fertilizer + fungicide treatments had a statistically reliable effect at the 0.1% level on the technological water absorption only while it was indifferent on the values such as wet gluten content, gluten spreading, baking value and falling number. On annual level reliable treatment x variety interactions could be detected for each characteristic compared to control. Increasing fertilizer doses tendentiously improved the values of wet gluten, baking value and technological water absorbance. In the case of certain treatment combinations, however, these values exhibited a tendentious decrease as the counter-effect of fungicides applied at the heading stage of development. Our results revealed that the baking quality of grains was determined by the common effect of various doses of fertilizers and fungicides Artea and Amistar Xtra applied at heading. This counter-effect proved to be unfavourable in the case of certain baking characteristics. Six different alleles or allelic pairs were revealed in the sample of genotypes  1, 2* (locus Glu-A1), 6 + 8, 7 + 8 and 7 + 9 (locus (Glu-B1) and 5 + 10 (Glu-D1). Quality scores for the wheat cultivar varied from 8 to 10. Cultivar GK Kalsz had the highest quality score 10.
23781379|The influence of awns on yield in winter wheat was studied in a greenhouse and on a growth bench. In the greenhouse the trial was conducted during winter when light intensity and temperature were naturally low; and ground beds were watered only when rather dry. On the growth bench, light, temperature and moisture were maintained near optimum. Awned plants yielded more in the greenhouse because of higher 1000 kernel weight, while awnless plants yielded more on the growth bench because of increased number of kernels per plant. Two different time dependent mechanisms are involved: one prior to fertilization, when seed number is determined, and the second during filling. A review of the literature indicated that awns influence yield, quite apart from linked genes, and that there is an interaction of awns with environment in the determination of yield.
23783881|The inheritance of harvest index was studied by the Jinks-Hayman type diallel analysis in a 6x6 wheat diallel cross population. The inheritance of harvest index was under the control of additive and partially dominant gene action. The positive and significant associations were found between harvest index and plot yield, thousand kernel weight, spike length and number of tillers.
23789891|Salinity is one of the most serious agricultural problems throughout the world. The objectives of these studies were: 1. to determine if salt tolerance can be enhanced by combining characters related to salt tolerance (salt exclusion, and high growth rate and grain yield in saline conditions) and 2. to study the genetic basis of salt tolerance in doubled haploid (DH) lines developed using wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) x maize (Zea mays L.) crosses. The 47 DH lines in experiment 1 and 22 DH lines in experiment 2 and their parents were grown in a controlled environment cabinet in nutrient solution with or without addition of 150 mM NaCl. Under the saline condition, the DH lines mean was significantly higher than mid-parental values for shoot fresh weight (SFW), shoot dry weight (SDW), root fresh weight (RFW), whole plant fresh weight (PFW), plant height (PH), number of tillers per plant (TNP), number of spikelets per spike (SNS), number of grains per spike (GNS), grain yield per plant (GYP), 100-grain weight (GW) and plant biomass (PB). Some DHs showed trangressive segregation for salt tolerance as determined by greater SFW, SDW, RFW, PFW, PH, TNP, SNS, GNS, GYP, GW and PB than the better parent. The genetic variances were greater than the error variances for all measured characters except K content in saline conditions. Moderate to high heritability estimates were found for all the characters studied in saline and control conditions. Salt exclusion was an important aspect of salt tolerance as Na content of leaves was negatively correlated with all growth characters at an early stage of growth, and with grain yield and yield components. We concluded that the higher salt tolerance of some DHs was due to the combination of genetic characters responsible for salt tolerance and salt tolerance is an inherited character.
23788198|The effects of time of nitrogen application and position of kernels in spike on kernel weight, protein content, -amylase activity and -glucan content were examined in two cultivars of barley. Cultivar 92-11 produced significantly bold kernels and lower -glucan content with slightly lower protein content and higher -amylase activity than cultivar Xiumei 3. Time of nitrogen application significantly influenced the quality parameters studied. Application of 110 kg N/ha at tillering produced significantly higher kernel weight and significantly lower protein content as well as -glucan content as compared to its application made at boot stage. -Amylase activity was also lowest in case of nitrogen applied at tillering stage. There were significant differences between two cultivars for quality parameters when kernels were selected from different spike positions or where specific plant part was removed at heading. The highest 1000-kernel weight was recorded in 92-11 (52.5%) with removal of side tillers and in Xiumei 3 (42.2%) from the middle portion of spike; whereas for protein content, opposite trend was obtained. -Amylase activity in both cultivars was the highest when middle portion of spike was removed. The lowest -glucan contents in 92-11 and Xiumei 3 were registered with removal of flag leaf and in Xiumei 3 with the removal of middle portion of spike.
90003458|Basic task of technical development carried out at the appropriate level and complexity in agricultural production is to influence environmental impacts (biotic and abiotic stress) in order to improve efficiency both in natural and economic terms. It is well-known that the adaptation of technical development this way requires from agricultural entreprises to set up serious condition system which means considerable challenge to the farms of the present segmented but  at the same time  heterogenous Hungarian farm structure. On the basis of a survey in the small, medium and large-scale farms of a conventionally cereal producing region, the current research examines the relations between the factors of technical development and the efficiency interpreted in two relations. As regards the factors of technical development, the experiences prove that the adaptation willingness  or rather ability from financial muscle - is increasing by the growth of farm size. The complexity of factors also improves which results increasing natural and economic efficiency. The economic efficiency is significantly decreasing in lower farm sizes, due basically to the inconsistency of mechanization, which supports the necessity of cooperation in the field of mechanization.
23789893|The heterogeneity among ten most widely grown old, recently released varieties and landraces of Syrian durum wheat was studied using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers. The 11 primer combinations used in this study amplified 533 scorable AFLP loci of which 141 (26.5%) were polymorphic. The values of average polymorphic information content (PIC) for these markers were estimated to be 0.34. The dissimilarity (D) values ranged from 0.120 to 0.729 with an average 0.421. The PCA analysis with the entire AFLP data separated the landraces from the durum wheat cultivars. The low PIC and dissimilarity values among modern varieties might be attributed to the rigorous selection pressure aimed at cultivar purity and associated breeding practices. It is included that AFLP markers can be used for detecting polymorphism leading to genotype identification and for estimating genetic diversity.
23790002|Field cultivation practices affected soil temperature that influenced the crop development of winter crops. This study was undertaken to determine the effects of different mulch materials, tillage depths and planting methods on spike differentiation of winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). The field experiment was consisted of three tests: (i) polythene mulch, straw mulch and no mulch; (ii) ridge planting and furrow planting; (iii) conventional tillage and shallow tillage. The results showed that soil temperature was affected by different practices. The higher soil temperature under polythene mulch resulted in the earlier initiation of spike differentiation, while straw mulch decreased soil temperature in spring that delayed the initiation compared with the non-mulch treatment. The spike initiation under ridge planting started earlier than that of furrow planting. Reduced tillage delayed the initiation compared with the conventional tillage. Duration of spike differentiation lasted longer under earlier starting of initiation that increased the grain numbers per spike. Other yield component characters were not affected by soil temperature. It was concluded that in the North China Plain where grain-filling duration of winter wheat was limited, agricultural practices that increased soil temperature in spring were favorable for grain production.
23781431|Plant height in barley is regulated by individual major genes causing height differences in the order of 20-25 cm as well as by minor genes and modifiers. The system allows plant height to be fixed at almost any level within a considerable range. The conclusion is based on an F2 analysis of six crosses.
23781527|The chemical composition and the dry matter yield of the whole plant of 18 winter barley (Hordeum vulgare L.)cultivars grown at five locations were examined to evaluate the feasibility of developing a breeding programme for silage.Differences among cultivars,locations and their interactions were found for all traits.The locations were the largest source of variation,whereas interactions were small except for crude fibre. Heritability estimates (broad sense) were high for protein, ether extract and ash content,but very low for fibre content. Data of this study indicated that genetic variability among cultivars for the main quality traits was small and consequently the manipulation by selection from the material considered would likely be ineffective.
23789999|Seventy-three common winter wheat varieties developed throughout the breeding history of the DAI were investigated for their diversity of allelic variants on storage proteins component composition in grain. The high- and low molecular weight protein structures were determined by the widely used SDS-PAGE method of Payne et al. (1980). The ratio between the individual alleles on the loci of high and low molecular weight glutenin was analyzed. The change in the HMW-score was followed according to the period when the respective varieties were developed. The configuration Glu-Alb, GluB1c, Glu-D1d, which was established in about 45% of the investigated genotypes, was most frequent in the high-molecular variants of glutenin. Concerning the low-molecular weight glutenins in 21 out of the 73 investigated varieties, the combination Glu-A3c, Glu-B3b, Glu-D3c was observed; it coincided with the spectrum of the widely used variety Bezostaya 1. Highest diversity was established in the allelic variants of Glu-A3, Glu-B3, in which 6 and 5 alleles, respectively, were observed. The quality of the varieties developed at DAI was relatively high (score 8.1). About a quarter of them are with high end-use quality confirmed in production. This is mainly due to the concentration of "strong" positive alleles in glutenin as a result from the intensive use of parents directly or indirectly related to Bezostaya 1, which lead to decrease of the percent of Glu-Bla (2 + 12). Quality should be further increased by additional diversity of combinations between "positive" as effect on end-use grain quality alleles. Concerning HMW loci to keep of high grain end-use quality, it is necessary to maintain the status of Glu-A1b (2*), as well as of Glu-D1d (5 + 10).
90003389|European corn borer (ECB) tunnel and feed within vascular tissues of maize whereas disrupt water and nutrient transport within plants. Occurred injuries predispose plant to stalk breakage and ear droppage, and may result in serious maize yield losses. The aim of this work is to evaluate susceptibility of maize hybrids to ECB. Two years of field studies were conducted among seven maize hybrids at Croatian site. Susceptibility to ECB was assessed by measuring tunnel length and number of ECB larva in dissected maize stalks. Grain yield was measured and calculated to 14% moisture level. Intensity of ECB attack in both years was 100%. Means for tunnel length were significantly higher in 2008 then in 2007. The extent of tunneling injury ranged between hybrids from 13.70 to 29.20 cm in 2007, and from 40.84 to 64.42 cm in 2008. Significant differences for tunnel length and number of larva among hybrids were found in both years. One larva in average was found in each dissected stalk, whereas mean number ranged from 0.96 and 2.16 in 2007, and from 1.28 to 2.03 larva in 2008, respectively. A significant positive correlation between tunnel length and number of larva has been observed for all hybrids in both years with exception of one hybrid in 2008 year. Our results indicate substantial variability among hybrids, and hybrid OsSK 602 showed tolerant characteristics. However, all investigated hybrids potentially may encounter detrimental effects of ECB attack.
23790304|Fusarium culmorum (W.G.Sm.) Sacc. is a pathogen affecting seedling, head, root and stem of barley, and the infection can result in significantly reduction of yield and grain quality. The aim of the studies was to compare the susceptibility of hulless and hulled barley doubled haploids (DH) to infection with F. culmorum. Thirty DH lines (15 hulled and 15 hulless) and their parents were inoculated with a conidial suspension of the isolate of F. culmorum KF350 (IPO348-01) (nivalenol chemotype). Experiment was carried out over six years. Spike infection score, kernel weight per spike, 1000-kernel weight and percentage of plump kernels (>2.5 mm) were examined in control and inoculated plants. In addition, in three environments, nivalenol (NIV) accumulation in infected kernels was analysed. Significant influence of genotypes and environments on spike infection, yield-related traits and NIV accumulation was found in inoculated plants. Hulless genotypes appeared to be more susceptible to infection than the hulled lines. The difference in NIV accumulation was not important  mean NIV content over three environments was similar for both groups of DH lines. Results suggest that glumes adhered to seed may protect it, to a certain degree, against penetration of the pathogen inside the seed.
23790026|The aboveground parts, grain yield, dry matter and water content of the silage maize varieties Bermasil (early) and Mv MSC 485 (mid-season) and the grain maize varieties Mv To 286 (early) and NKPX 9283 (mid-season) were analysed to determine how these traits should be modified to develop a variety type more suitable for the production of bioenergy, more particularly biogas. It was established that silage maize types are generally taller, with larger tassels, leaves, cobs and stalk mass below the ear, making them suitable for biogas production. It is important to note, however, that the grain yield of these varieties should not be ignored, as it makes up 4050% of the total aboveground dry matter yield. As one of the earliest maturing varieties, the silage maize variety Bermasil could be suitable in itself for biogas production. Based on the present and earlier data, it can be concluded that varieties with later maturity dates than those generally used for silage production could also be suitable for biogas production, provided they reliably reach the "half milk line" stage of maturity and a grain moisture content of around 42% every year in the given environment.
90003490|The highly persistent DDT and its metabolites are seriously endangering human health, limit land use options and drinking water usage. Theoretically DDT contaminations could be treated with bioremediation methods, but such microbes are needed that have efficient degrading activity. For isolating DDT degrading microbes DDT contaminated soil samples were used that were collected in Kyrgyzstan. 13 bacterium strains were isolated and maintained as axenic cultures. According to the 16Sr DNA sequence analysis 10 isolates belong to the
23786099|Immature embryos and immature inflorescence of Proso millet were cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (1962) (MS) medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and kinetin (Kn). Mature embryos were cultured on MS medium with 2,4-D and 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP). Calli with somatic embryos from immature embryos and inflorescences developed on medium with 2,4-D (2.5 mg/l) + Kn (1 mg/l) and from mature embryos on medium with 2,4-D (0.5 mg/l) + BAP (0.5 mg/l). Plant regeneration was observed when calli were transferred on hormone free MS medium. Profuse rooting was induced on 1/2 strength MS medium with 2% sucrose. Regenerated plantlets were successfully transferred into pots under field conditions where most of the plants survived and set normal seeds.
23790019|Epidemiological data suggest that consumption of whole-grain and bran may help to prevent cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and certain forms of cancer. The beneficial health effects are usually attributed to the presence of dietary fibre and bioactive secondary metabolites, including phenolic acids. Wheat is an important component of the human diet and may be a significant source of phenolic antioxidants. To date, few studies have investigated the effect of various agricultural practices on levels of secondary metabolites in crops. The aim of this work was to determine the phenolic acid content in four winter wheat cultivars, grown using conventional and organic agricultural practices. Five phenolic acids were detected by HPLC analyses. Ferulic acid was the predominant phenolic acid in the grain of all tested wheat varieties. The remaining phenolic acids, i.e. sinapic acid, p-coumaric acid, vanillic acid, and p-hydroxybenzoic acid, were present in considerably lower amounts. Significant differences among cultivars in concentration of particular phenolic acids, as well as in the total phenolic acid content were observed. The effect of various agricultural practices on phenolic acid levels in wheat grains was also analysed. Organically grown plants are usually considered to contain more secondary metabolites. In this study, however, organic agriculture did not lead to a significant increase in phenolic acids. Only a small, statistically irrelevant trend towards higher levels of phenolic acids in organic wheat samples was demonstrated.
90002793|Most of the north-eastern Hungary has been extensively altered by human activity over the earliest Stone Age. Hortobagy belonged to earlier communities in this territory. The land-use changes during the past 200 years were a response to human history that was dynamic in population size, technology, mobility, economic structure, and intensive interaction with the landscape (Nagy, et al., 2007). The effect of human history on the structure and management of the fields of Hortobagy has been a focus of study for soil scientist (Vrallyay, 2006), economists (Olh, Nemesslyi, 2002), and ecologists (Veress, et al., 2000). One major theme that emerges from these diverse studies is that at a range of scales, from the stand to the region of central Hortobagy has been in a constant state of flux in response to dynamic and ever-changing modes of human activity. The human impacts to the ecosystem have not only altered the type and arrangement of fields, but the manner in which the fields function and respond to the natural process.
90002326|Net blotch caused by
90003396|The range of grapevine cultivars traditionally grown in Hungary differs from these that are growing in western Europe, as they mostly belong to the pontican cultivars. Most of these cultivars are more resistant for abiotic stress factors, specially they have higher drought tolerance. Our aim was to find an isoenzyme marker, what is characteristic for most of the traditional Hungarian grapevine cultivars, to help our breeding work as well. First 20 grapevine cultivars were investigated by isoenzyme analyses. We used a 3-parted vertical poliacrylamide gel system for the separation of the soluble isoenzymes of acid phosphatase (AcP), peroxidase (PER), glutamate-oxalacetate-transaminase (GOT) and cathecol-oxidase (CO). Comparing the banding patterns we noticed a special banding pattern of the acid phosphatase (AcP) of the woody stems (in the case of 4 cultivars) that we dont find in the literature. In the investigation of leaf extracts, we find that these 4 cultivars have one additional band in their zymogram as well. It perhaps means, that this additional form of acid phosphatase in these cultivars is controlled by an additional locus. As all this 4 cultivars has pontican origin, we extended the range of cultivars to 60 to clarify if this phenotype appears only in the range of the pontican cultivars, or can be encountered in other groups of Vitis vinifera. On the basis of this result it can be established, that more than 2/3 of the cultivars, which morphologically belongs to the subconvarietas pontica gives this zymogram, as from the other groups (subconvar. occidentalis and orientalis) only one cultivar gave this phenotype.
23787245|Durum wheat leaf segments (Triticum durum Desf.) were incubated in solutions of KCl to test the effect of selective accumulation of ions, on tissues affinity for water. This was estimated trough an indirect estimate of the average enthalpy of water sorption. Leaf segments were collected from well watered plants grown in a controlled environment and were incubated in different KCl solutions. As increasing concentrations of KCl were included in the medium accumulation of K+ and Cl ions and changes in the water-binding mode of the leaf segments were observed. Large increases in tissue affinity for water appeared when KCl concentrations in the medium were between 20-30mM and 50mM. These findings were repeatable in leaf segments of plants that differed in both growth stage and genotype. Relationships between tissue affinity for water and tissue K+ and Cl content were examined. Tissue affinity for water did not change until the concentration of K+ in the leaf tissues reached approximately 50-55 mg/g dry weight, where large increase in strength of water binding was observed. Above this threshold tissue affinity for water was low even if K+ content increased.
90002668|An information system was developed in Martonvsr to back up the work of research teams breeding various self-pollinating plant species. The system can be used for keeping records of breeding stock, for planning field and laboratory experiments, for site-plant performance evaluation, for the automated collection of experimental data and for the rapid evaluation of the results. The same system is used to record breeding data and the data of the institutes cereal gene bank. The information system is used to organise the work of more than 40 scientists and their assistants. Research is conducted on large field areas at several locations, and in quality analysis and molecular genetics laboratories. The central database system set up to achieve uniform data handling allows simultaneous access to around 50 workstations connected to the network, thus facilitating team work. Each year the system handles approximately three million identification, observation and measurement data from over 100,000 plots.
23781420|Microsporogenesis was studied under the light microscope in two temperate, four tropical, 1 derived tropical line with temperate cytoplasm and six isocytoplasmic lines. Male sterility was expressed in the form of abnormalities in the sporogenous tissue and/or the tapetum. Lines having temperate cytoplasms exhibited both tapetal and sporogenous tissue abnormalities, while those with tropical cytoplasms were characterized by mostly tapetal abnormalities.
23784211|The nucleus of common wheats Novosibirskaya 67 and Byelorusskaya 80 was introduced into the cytoplasm of Secale cereale, Agropyron trichophorum and Aegilops variabilis by backrossing. A cytogenetic study of meiosis in plants of alloplasmic lines was carried out. Different meiotic irregularities were observed. The alloplasmic lines of Novosibirskaya 67 and Byelorusskaya 80 with Secale cereale and Agropyron trichophorum cytoplasm were found to carry one or two extra chromosomes with important contribution to adaptation of plants.
23779084|The use of genotype-environment interactions to estimate genetic diversity was investigated. Thirty-eight doubled haploid lines derived from F1 plants of 6 biparental crosses, along with 9 parental and 4 additional check cultivars were evaluated for yield at 5 locations in Ontario in 1975 and 1976. Genetic diversity was estimated by the following two methods: (1) Comparison of mean yield, regression coefficient, and deviation from regression, and (2) Correlation over a range of environments of yield deviations from the environmental index between all pairs of genotypes. Neither of these methods correctly estimated the genotypic relationship among the 51 genotypes evaluated in this study.
90003072|Changes in the grain moisture content, in the water content of the cob and the internode below the ear, and in the thousand-kernel mass were examined in two early and two late-maturing hybrids by taking measurements three times a day on five occasions. Analysis of variance only demonstrated the expected variety effect. No daily fluctuations in the water content could be observed, nor was the low grain moisture content recorded after physiological maturity found to be influenced by rain, by temperatures favourable for drying, or by plant organs with higher water contents. This indicates that the date of harvesting during this period had no major effect on the amount of energy required for drying.
23786790|Embryogenic cultures with potential for green plant regeneration in long term cultures were established in indica rice cultivars. White, compact, embryogenic callus cultures with high plant regenerability were derived from mature seed embryos. Selective subculturing of yellowish white and compact regions (embryogenic clusters) of the primary callus onto MS medium with 2.32M kinetin, 3.78M ABA, 1 g/l caesin hydrolysate and 164.8 mM mannitol produced somatic embryos. Cultures maintained on this medium exhibited capacity for plant regeneration even after 24 months of culture. Green plants obtained from somatic embryos were grown to maturity.
90002963|The objective of the investigation was estimation and comparison of relative efficiency of the simple lattice experimental design vs. the randomized complete block design for grain yield, grain moisture content and starch content in dry matter of grain in maize. The trials were set up in Osijek and Karanac during two growing seasons. An appropriate plant-soil interrelation revealed gain in experimental precision of the simple lattice design for all investigated traits at both locations and growing seasons, especially for grain yield and Osijek location. The estimated results approve the efforts of researchers to involve, adjust and explore such quantitative traits into the simple lattice design more frequently instead of the randomized complete block design. This is all in purpose to achieve the highest possible estimation accuracy for targeted traits.
23785315|Triticum turgidum var. polonicum has been one of the primitive wheats for traditional agriculture. It is the genetic resource of several traits, such as earliness, long vitreous kernels and tolerance to high temperature during grain-filling period to improve durum wheat cultivars. T. polonicum is characterized by a long, empty outer glume controlled by P gene, which is located on chromosome 7A. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of P gene on the starch pasting properties of tetraploid and hexaploid wheat using near-isogenic lines. It was confirmed that P gene strikingly contributed to increase starch pasting properties. If it was widely confirmed that T. polonicum carries the gene to modifying starch paste viscosity, this species would be one of the potential genetic resource to develop improved cultivars.
23782893|An analysis of the isozyme variability was carried out in a population of Hordeum chilense. From the analysis of eight isozyme systems, and taking into account their genetic control previously reported, the heterozygosis and polymorphism of this wild barley population has been analyzed.
90002836|Last years the Western Corn Rootworm,
23783854|Androgenic responses of Triticum aestivum cvs. Marquis, a Fusarium head blight (FHB) susceptible Canadian cv., and Wangshui Bai, a FHB resistant Chinese cv., and their F1 hybrids are reported. Marquis anthers responded well in culture with a callus induction frequency (CIF) of 19.7%, and produced 3.9 green plants/100 plated anthers but Wangshui Bai was a poor responder, having a CIF of 4.4% and produced only albino plants (1.4/100 anthers). Nevertheless, doubled haploid (DH) plants were recovered from the F1 progeny of reciprocal crosses of these cultivars. Anthers from the first three emerging spikes of F1 hybrids (Marquis x Wangshui Bai) showed responses intermediate to the parental lines; CIF 14% and green plant regeneration of 0.3/100 anthers. Anthers from later emerging spikes had CIFs of 5-8% and zero green plant production. Screening of the DH hybrids for FHB resistance by an in vitro growth assay and subsequently by field inoculation trials indicated that approximately one half of the DH lines were resistant to FHB. This unexpectantly high ratio of resistant lines suggests that the susceptible cv. Marquis must also carry minor resistance factors that were transferred to the DH lines. It is concluded that the DH approach will be useful for genetic analyses of resistance and for breeding Fusarium resistance into Canadian cultivars.
23783054|Analyses were conducted on yield and test weight data of 14 wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em Thell) genotypes from six experiments of the Louisiana Agricultural Experiment Station winter wheat performance trials. Genotype  environment interaction patterns were similar for both traits, but the coefficient of variation for grain yield (13.3%) was five times greater than that for test weight (2.2%). Broad-sense heritability of grain yield was 0.50.36 and that of test weight was 0.78.37, on an entry mean basis, and 0.11.08 and 0.29.14, respectively, on a single plot basis. Genetic and phenotypic correlations between grain yield and test weight were 0.57 and 0.78, respectively. Therefore, selection for both traits can be performed simultaneously, without adversely affecting each other. Test weight was less affected by random environmental fluctuations within a typical range of Louisiana environments, and selection for test weight using single plots would be effective.
23777651|From material obtained from the 6th IWWPN grown at Svalv (Sweden) in 1974, we have studied the correlation between the main quality prediction tests and the baking quality in winter wheat. The results have emphasized that the greatest part of the variation in bread volume can be attributed directly to the variation in protein quantity. The sedimentation test and the farinograph time of dough development are among the best prediction tests of baking quality.
23787098|Sweet maize breeding lines are harvested at physiological maturity to provide seed for the next generation. It is important to know how sugar quality and quantity in kernels change as plants obtain physiological maturity so that superior cultivars can be developed. Kernels of isolines of a shrunken2 sweet maize, susceptible and resistant to the causal organism of rust disease, were harvested at the fresh-market and physiological maturity stages and assayed for content of glucose, fructose, sucrose, total sugar, starch and water soluble polysaccharides (WSP). At fresh-market the susceptible iso-line had higher levels of glucose, fructose, total sugar and WSP, while the resistant iso-line had higher levels of sucrose. There was no difference in the amount of starch in kernels. At physiological maturity kernels of the susceptible iso-line had higher levels of each sugar and their totals, but lower levels of starch and WSP than those of the resistant iso-line. Since the iso-lines appear to process sugars differently they can likely be manipulated to better understand how to incorporate desired traits in improved cultivars.
23790003|The practical implementation of precision crop production nowadays is becoming more and more widespread. Numerous experiments and farmers' practical experiences verify the positive impacts of precision nutrient supply on farming. Precision weed control started to spread later, partly due to technical difficulties, partly to the lack of necessary software support that was developed later. The introduction of a new technology requires complex farm-management decisions, including the consideration of economic correlations (costs-yield-income) as well as high-level skills and significant investments from the farmer. These investments can be returned from the income surplus realized through increasing yields and decreasing farming costs. Extra income can also come from the decreasing material costs which, however, do not necessarily compensate the extra costs of implementing the new technology and depends very much on the utilization of savings from different herbicide doses used for the treatment of plots, considering the soil qualities. This study, utilising the data of a technological experiment carried out in Hungary, presents the results of a stochastic simulation model developed with the adaptation of finite element method. The examination was executed at sub-plot level, dividing the plots into small parcels. Our aim was to examine the impact of precision nutrient application and differentiated spraying of herbicides on production costs and yield, as well as the impact of changes on gross margin (income) and the returns on technological development.
90003000|In this paper we studied influence of substrate to efficiency of biological product based on
23789828|In Hungary 53% of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars registered during the last twenty years carry the 1RS translocation, the short arm of rye (Secale cereale L.) chromosome 1. Wheat production in Hungary is limited primarily by drought. Despite the widespread use of this translocation there is no information about its effect on stress tolerance. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of 1BL.1RS on drought tolerance. 'Mv5791-1B.1R' and the sister line 'Mv5791-1B.1B' were examined among other cultivars in greenhouse under well-watered and drought conditions. Data were obtained for anthesis- and maturity date, plant height, root/shoot ratio, components of grain yield, Harvest Index (HI) and Water Use Efficiency (WUE). The translocation line had higher root- and shoot dry weight in both treatments and an increased root/shoot ratio, which was more than the sister line in dry treatment (69 and 38%, respectively). The larger root biomass of the 1RS translocation line could contribute to the increased HI and WUE under drought that resulted in less yield decrease (23 and 32%, respectively) compared with the non-translocation counterpart.
23783057|Twenty-two F1 hybrids were produced using msm1 cytoplasmic male-sterile and restorer lines selected from Composite Cross XXXII (CC XXXII). The hybrids, their maintainer and restorer parents and six inbred lines and cultivars that were selected from CC XXXII were grown in a four-replication yield trial in plots consisting of 10 hills planted in two rows of five hills on 0.81 m beds with 0.61 m between hills and five seed planted in each hill. Grain yield, volume weight and 1000-kernel weight were measured for each plot. Hybrid values were compared to midparent, high-parent and highest inbred cultivar values. Twelve of the hybrids yielded significantly more than their high parents and four yielded significantly more than the highest inbred cultivar. Little heterosis was noted for volume weight and 1000-kernel weight. Two hybrids had significantly greater 1000-kernel weights than their high parents and two other hybrids had significantly greater volume weights than their high parents.
23783882|Six spring x winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) crosses were investigated in the Dry Temperate Region of North Western Himalayas to find out the mode of inheritance of the waxy bloom character. Waxiness imparts drought tolerance and also helps the host plant in avoiding the pathogen through its physiological or biochemical properties. The F1 generation of all the crosses indicated waxy bloom to be controlled by dominant gene. A monohybrid ratio of 3 waxy : 1 non-waxy was observed in the F2 generations of all the six crosses. This ratio was further confirmed by the analysis of F3 breeding behaviour. Hence, the waxy bloom of winter wheat varieties viz., J.O.3057, Bounty, Funddin, Flenders and Atou is monogenically dominant to the bloomlessness of spring wheat varieties viz., HPW 47, PBW 65, and HD 2380.
90003029|The relationship between mould biomass and the biosynthesis of aflatoxins B
90003245|The purpose of our work was to assess whether BEA can affect the root and leaf cells of wheat cultivar (cv.) "Arina" seedlings, using cytotoxicity assay and fluorescent microscopy. Leaf primordial, situated at the base, and the tips of treated leaves were affected by BEA when assayed in medium for cell viability measured by luminescent equipment. BEA-treated plant cells secrete adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to the extracellular matrix and invoke more luminescence by luciferase than the non-treated seedlings. Our results were confirmed by fluorescence microscopy and by confocal microscopy.
90002889|Nowadays both climate extremes and economic difficulties call attention to use sugar beet tillage systems that may establish production more successfully. The importance of mulch leaving tillage rises up by emphasizing soil moisture-, organic matter-, and soil surface protection. The damages caused by tillage can be eliminated using ploughless or improved ploughing systems. Furthermore, water-, air-, nutrient-, and heat management of soil are improved. We found, that soil aggregation increases and microbial activity is promoted in soils under mulch leaving tillage systems. In this way better growing conditions can be established, and simultaneously climate damages might be mitigated.
90003009|The objective of the preparation of this paper is to increase bioethanol production, to develop theories in the case of corn hybrids of high starch content, and to study hybrids that are the most favourable in terms of bioethanol production and to identify them by means of laboratory examination based on absorbed electromagnetic radiation in the near-infrared region of spectrum. The aim of the small-plot field experiments is to evaluate the impacts of growing technology factors (tillage, crop number, crop rotation, irrigation) on the yield of maize hybrids. This research is part of a several step laboratory examination which aims to detect the most suitable maize hybrids for bioethanol production analyzing a great number of maize hybrids.
90003391|Production costs, gross revenue and profitability of ten durum wheat cultivars was evaluated during two vegetation seasons in Pore, Croatia at northwestern Mediterranean area. Gross revenues and profits depended upon grain yield and protein content. Highest average biannual profit was 287 EUR ha
23788065|Results of the tests for bunt resistance of the cultivars registered in the Czech Republic and older Czech and Slovak cultivars carried out from 1988 to 2005 are presented. In most experiments mixture of samples of T. tritici and T. laevis from different locations was applied for inoculation. In 1995 samples of above mentioned species were used separately. Of the older Czech and Slovak cultivars Roxana, Dobrovick pesvka, Hela, Mara and Vala showed high to medium resistance. Of the registered cultivars the highest resistance was displayed by the German cv. Globus and Danish cv. Bill, followed by the Czech cv. Niagara. Ranking of cultivars tested in 2004 and 2005 varied, except the most resistant cultivars Globus, Bill and Niagara.
90003442|Deformations of loose agricultural soils have a high importance in agriculture. The compaction either due to natural processes or due to the stresses caused by special agricultural vehicles (tractors, harvesting machines, etc.) reduces the productivity of soil. Loose soils behave something different from compacted soils frequently investigated by soil mechanical tests. Since the soils are kept artificially as uncompacted as possible by means of land cultivation there is a very significant plastic deformation over the elastic ones. The special state of the loose agricultural soils led to very high deformations also at small stresses. The need of discovering the deformation behavior of different common agricultural soil types began at simplified soil geometry: on cylindrical samples. Since there are two possible cases in the nature (if there is a possibility for lateral deformation or not) we performed both rigid wall oedometric tests and both flexible wall triaxial tests. The paper deals with the stress distribution and the caused compaction during the mentioned standard soil mechanical tests.
90002858|The maize root growth and nutrient uptake can be reduced due to the low temperatures, which can severly limit early growth and development. The aim of this research was to determine how the three maize hybrids (OsSK 444, OsSK 552 and OsSK 644), produced in two years with different weather patterns (2000 and 2001), and grown under different temperatures (10C, 15C and 20C) accumulated the dry matter (DM), nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K). The experiment has been coducted in the pots within the climate chamber. In the maize three leaves vegetative stage the shoot and root had been collected and analysed for the DM, N, P and K. It was found that the DM and K content were under significant influence of all treatments, whereas the seed production year treatment did not impact N and P in the shoot. The temperature influenced significantly all investigated parameters except the root N content. The genetic specifity had significant impact at all parameters.
90002661|land use changes are sources for a series of problems but they can be solutions as well. In a nature conservation area it can reduce and increase biodiversity, however in the Tihany Peninsula nature conservationists try to protect the present natural environment. Human induced landscape changes gained the peninsula the first landscape protection district status of the country. Geological background, microclimatic conditions, given soil heritage, plant cover and land use plays an important role in the life of the peninsula. We wish to give an example how human induced activities might affect the valuable natural environment in a way that threatens the aim of the protection.
23781574|In the trials the Triticum durum lines, selected by breeders at the Cereal Research Institude from CIMMYT hybrid populations and other foreign /Italian, French, Soviet/ varieties generally yielded 20-30% less than the most produced winter wheat cultivars /Triticum aestivum/. In spring sowing the durum lines and varieties yielded 50-60% less than the bread wheats and 20-30% less than the same durum genotypes sown in autumn. Sowing the material in spring or in autumn resulted in a slight interannual interaction on the 1000-grain-mass, test-weight and seed protein content. However, this did not cause any significant difference. In the National Variety Testing Trials the durum cultivars and candidates /GK Minaret, GK Basa, GK Leila, GK Aga, of the Cereal Research Institute yielded 4, 9-5, 2 t/ha in the mean of 4 years. This means that their yielding ability is 15-20% lower than that of the control aestivum wheats /Mv 4, Jubilejnaya 50, GK 3/. The quality of the durms was tested by INRA /Montpellier, France/ and on the basis of laboratory results their pasta quality was classified as excellent, good and satisfactory. The brown index of the cultivars and candidates was 16-20, which could still be improved. With the exception of GK Aga all of the others proved to be good during the cooking test. The results untill now prove that it is possible to produce winter durum wheats in Hungary.
23786846|The antagonistic activity of different soils against phytopathogenic fungi was assessed on winter wheat seeds infected with Fusarium culmorum (W.G.Smith) Sacc. The results showed highly significant influence of soil origin (location) and soil antagonistic activity by comparing sterilized vs. natural soil. Varietal differences of wheat were significant, too. Possible methods of soil antagonistic activity testing are discussed.
23786094|The effects of the genes for long glume (P), hairy glume, non-glaucousness, black glume and purple culm (Pc) on grain and biomass yield in near-isogenic (10 backcrosses) lines of durum wheat cv. LD222 were studied in a field experiment. Long glumes were associated with an increase in rachis length and a decrease in tillering, number of spikes per plant, spikelets per spike, days to heading, over all harvest index and yield. Glaucousness increased grain yield while purple culms reduced grain yield and harvest index. Glume pubescence did not show any significant effect on grain yield and harvest index despite a reduction in the number of tillers per plant. One source of black glumes did not have any significant effect on yield related characteristics while another source had a negative effect on them, indicating that the method employed herein determines the effect of short chromosomal regions rather than those of single genes. Plant height, culm length, 100 kernel weight, and above-ground plant weight were not affected significantly by any of the genes studied.
23792277|Based on the known GA20-oxidase (GA20ox) cDNAs of barley and wheat, oligonucleotide primers were designed to isolate GA20ox genes from genomic DNA of Dasypyrum villosum. A total of 19 clones were obtained. Each of them contained an open reading frame encoding a putative 40-KDa protein of 359 amino acid residues. Twenty-one SNPs and 4 InDels were found and could divide the 19 sequences into 2 classes, designated as DvGA20ox-1 and DvGA20ox-2, respectively. Q-PCR analyses showed that both DvGA20ox-1 and DvGA20ox-2 were in leaf blade, leaf sheath, stem, eustipes, root and developing spike. Similar expression levels were found between DvGA20ox-1 and DvGA20ox-2 in three stages. The total expression levels of DvGA20ox-1 and DvGA20ox-2 presented downtrend in leaf blade and ascend in stem, eustipes and developing spike along with the development of plants, respectively. However, they were firstly increased and then decreased in root from seeding stage to heading stage. These results revealed that the gene expression profile of DvGA20ox-1 and DvGA20ox-2 closely related to the growth and development of D. villosum.
90002665|In 2004 field experiments were set up at selected six farms in the area of a Central-Hungarian region. For this study one farm was chosen based on collected soil-samples from the area, assessing the effects of traditional tillage systems including soil-condition measurements done in the last three years. For monitoring of soil condition agronomical structure, penetration resistance and moisture content measurements were regularly used. Based on the research date and the results, some new proposals were summarised to enhance environmental conscious sustainable farming.
90002942|Chlorophyll and carotenoid content in flag leaf of three wheat cultivars (KG-100, KG-56S and KG-5) were studied. Investigation conducted in two development stage: booting and flowering. Cultivars were grown at the long term experiment under conditions of three fertilization variants: first- control variant (without fertilizers), second - variant with nitrogen aplication (two subvariants with diferent rate of N) N
90002737|A pot experiment was set up to reveal the direct effects and interactions between soil, nitrogen-supply, nickel-loading and liming on the Ca- and Ni-content of dry matter of perennial ryegrass. Nitrogen and liming material were added on two levels, while Ni on three. The same environment was ensured for all 4 replications of 12 treatment combinations.
90003287|Optimum management of Fusarium head blight in wheat and barley is best achieved with multiple strategies; a single strategy generally fails during epidemic conditions. Members of the management group of the US Wheat and Barley Scab Initiative established integrated management studies in 2007, across multiple regions and grain classes, to quantify the value of additive strategies for Fusarium head blight and deoxynivalenol reduction. Strategies studied were a combination of two or three of the following approaches: variety resistance, fungicides, and crop rotation. Results in the northern plains state of North Dakota indicated that the lowest field severity of Fusarium head blight and the lowest deoxynivalenol, and the highest yields and test weights were achieved with multiple, rather than single management strategies.
90002796|Seven domestic cultivars of winter wheat developed in Institute of Field and Vegetable Crops (
23789318|The heritability of maize resistance to one Czech isolate of Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV) was determined. Parental maize lines with different degree of resistance or susceptibility, their F1 and F2 progeny were mechanically inoculated by this virus and symptom development were observed during 63 days. The analysis of resistance of F1 hybrids, derived from resistant lines and lines with a different degree of susceptibility, suggests that there was no hybrid found which would not exhibit any symptom of infection induced by SCMV, but the symptoms appeared one or two weeks later, compared with the susceptible line, the onset of infection was very gradual and the percentage of infection never reached 100 percent. Heritability of this trait, determined on the basis of the variances of parents, F1 hybrids, and the development of infection in F2 populations was relatively high and ranged from 0,70 to 0,91. From these results we can assume that the resistance of tested lines to SCMV detected in the greenhouse is not inherited completely dominantly but it may be controlled partially dominantly or polygenically.
23783821|Tissue senescence represents physical and physiological changes in sweet corn (Zea mays var. rugosa Bonaf.). Senescence rates in supersweet corn are not well known, nor are the factors which contribute to senescence. Standard (su), supersweet (sh2), and sugary enhancer (se, a homozygous and heterozygous genotype) cultivars were sown on 31 March, 14 and 28 April, and 12 May 1992, and 2, 16 and 30 April, and 14 May 1993. Senescence rates of stalk and shank internodes and cobs were determined at fresh market harvest. Senescence rate increased up through the stalk internodes. In 1992, 'Merit' (su) generally had the highest stalk internode senescence ratings, but 'D'Artagnan' (se, heterozygous) had the highest shank internode senescence ratings. In 1993, 'Florida Staysweet' (sh2) and 'Zenith' (sh2) had the lowest stalk senescence ratings, and 'Incredible' (se, homozygous) the highest shank senescence ratings. Cobs were almost completely senescent in both years. Plants sown at the first (1992) or first and second (1993) planting dates had the lowest stalk and shank internode senescence ratings. Understanding senescence could increase the knowledge of metabolism and development in sweet corn.
23783982|By using defined wheat lines with and without a 1RS.1BL wheat-rye translocation the relative amount of starch in the endosperm was investigated. The results show that the wheats included can significantly vary for this trait. However, it was not associated with the presence or absence of the alien chromosome segment of rye but by the genetic background of wheat. In one combination, Bovictus x Mikon, an increase in the amount of starch was observed which surpassed the approximate level of parents. It is discussed as a heterotic gene effect.
90003089|We investigated the agronomic factors how could influence the yield of hemp. The effects of nutrient supply in soil four N,P,K levels, influence of plant density 360 and 240 germs ha
23785374|Different enrichment methods were used to isolate an active, DON-transforming microorganism from bovine rumen content. A microorganism capable of detoxifying DON was enriched by omitting various compounds of a semidefined cultur medium, using CO2 gasatmosphere and treatment with different antibiotics. After several dilution series in optimized medium under anaerobic conditions the culture consisted of two microorganisms. Transformation rates were 8,4 mg.l1.h1, without reaching the maximum rates. The active biotransforming bacterium in this co-culture is a Gram-positiv, nonspore-forming, strictly anaerobic irregular rod (0,2 by 1-1.5 m) occuring singly and in long chains up to 150 m. No growth occured on solid media. Yeast extract and hemin are essential. Growth and detoxification is not inhibited by 2-Bromoethanesulfonate, a specific inhibitor of methanogenic bacteria. Different electron transport inhibitors of the anaerobic respiratory chain partly affected cell growth and detoxification of DON, indicating a detoxification mechanism coupled with electron transfer, by using DON as electron acceptor.
23783661|This is the first report based on experimental results from Yugoslavian territory about the presense of the BYDV on barley and wheat fields and the verification of this virus by ELISA test and traditional aphid transmission to barley, wheat, maize, oats and sorghum.
90002638|The development of soil-crop relation quality is a deliberate human activity, where the labour of the producer was taken over by machine work and the quality of producer skills became more important. Technical progress  as part of technical development  increased the efficiency of production, thus the demand on labour decreased. As a consequence, the role of agricultural crop production in employment significantly decreased  even in the  labour-intensive branches. Based on FADN database, the article examines the changes of labour utilization and labour efficiency in field crop production after 1989 in the countries of the European Union. The main statement is that the labour capacity decreased by about two million people while the output increased, which resulted the growth of labour efficiency. This could not be realised, however, without the increase of production potential of biological basis, fertilizers, plant protection chemicals and mechanization.
90002322|Senescence of plant tissues is a natural process that may be accelerated by unfavourable environmental factors, including disbalanced mineral nutrition. During plant senescence, the concentration of reactive oxygen species (ROS) increases in the cells, whereas the concentration of cytokinins declines. Negative correlation between ROS, such as hydroxyl radical (OH), and concentration of cytokinins triggers the question whether the addition of cytokinins can reduce ROS production and/or its concentration. This would also reduce the level of lipid peroxidation (LP) in the senescing tissue, which is the final phase in the destruction of cell membranes by ROS.
23783896|Canadian and CIMMYT spring wheat cultivars were evaluated for their reaction to common bunt (Tilletia tritici and T. laevis) in the field at Lethbridge, AB, during 1991 and 1992. High infection levels were observed in the CIMMYT cultivars, Pitic 62, Ciano 67, Napo 63, Torim 73, Azteca 67, Jupeteco 73, Potem 70, Songlen, Inia 66, and Lerma 52, and the ancestral cultivars, Tezanos Pinto Precoz, Carazinho, Romany and Norin 10/Brevor. The Canadian cultivars, HY320 and Roblin were also highly susceptible. Low infection levels were observed in the CIMMYT cultivars, Jaral 66, Saric 70, Nainari 60, and Penjamo 62, in the Canadian cultivar, Columbus, and in the US cultivars Hope and Newthatch. The remaining cultivars tested exhibited intermediate infection levels. The putative origins of resistance and susceptibility among cultivars are discussed.
23781348|Water loss from excised flag leaves of winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em. Thell.) was measured, along with leaf area and stomatal resistance, to determine physiological reasons for differences among cultivars in rate of leaf dehydration. Leaf area on attached leaves and water loss from detached leaves after 24 hours of drying were determined for 30 cultivars. As expected, leaf area was related directly to water loss. Large leaves lost more water than small leaves. Two cultivars, 'Triumph 64' and 'Sturdy', were identified which had low and high rates of water loss per cm2 of leaf tissue, respectively. Stomatal-resistance readings of these two cultivars were taken hourly during a 24-hour period in the field. The stomata of Triumph 64 were closed tightly throughout the night, but those of Sturdy remained partially open. The stomata of Triumph 64 closed earlier in the day and opened later in the morning than those of Sturdy. The results showed that large differences occurred between cultivars in nighttime stomatal resistance and that cultivars might be screened at night to identify drought-hardy ones.
23786226|Maize is the leading field crop in Yugoslavia in terms of economic importance and area sown. Over the past 400 years, which is how long maize has been grown in the country, a rich breeding material with a unique combination of agronomic traits has been developed under the influence of agroecological factors and through constant selection of desirable fenotypes. When the spread of hybrid maize began in the mid-20th century, local breeding materials were collected and assembled in gene banks in order to prevent their deterioration and enable their utilization in breeding to develop hybrid varieties. The present study includes only those lines from the first cycle of selection originating from the local populations Vukovarski Zuti Zuban, Sidski Zuti Zuban, Novosadski Zlatni Zuban, Bankut Bajsa, Socice, and Novosadski Zuti Zuban that were used for the development of commercial hybrids, which is less than 1% of the total number of inbred lines developed at the Institute of Field and Vegetable Crops in Novi Sad. The contribution of domestic inbred lines to modern maize breeding consists in the following: 1) Domestic inbred lines possess great variability for most of the agronomically important traits. In nearly every group of lines (lines of the same origin comprise one group), lines with desirable traits have been found, lines that now represent new sources of variability in breeding programs on: grain yield, resistance to lodging, early maturity, ear bareness, grain quality, and other traits. 2) The domestic inbreds differ in their heterotic potential for grain yield when crossed with the inbred testers B73 (BSSS germplasm type) and Mo17 (Lancaster germplasm type). Lines originating from the populations Vukovarski Zuti Zuban, Sidski Zuti Zuban, Novosadski Zlatni Zuban, and Novosadski Zuti Zuban combine better with the inbred tester Mo17 than with B73, so they belong to the BSSS heterotic group. Lines originating from the populations Bankut Bajsa and Socice are neutral, i.e. they respond equally to both types of germplasm (BSSS and Lancaster), so they can be said to belong to a new heterotic group.
90003492|The application of various alternative nutrient supplies can partly be substituted by chemical fertilizers resulting in economical use with less environmental strains. Biofertilizers promote nutrition uptake, but still there are a lot of questions about their application under stress conditions. One of the main abiotic factors is polluted soils containing toxic elements. In the course of the intensive plant growing, considerable quantities of cation leave the soil to lead to acidification, thereby enhancing the uptake of heavy metals by plants. Cadmium (Cd) toxicity is a major problem affecting crop productivity worldwide. The presence of Cd in the rhizosphere can cause stress responses and alteration in many physiological processes, including nitrogen metabolism, photosynthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, sulphate assimilation and plant-water interactions. Cd can get into the food-chain, causing public health problems. The aim of our work was to investigate the effects of biofertilizers on plant production and nutrient uptake in the case of Cd-polluted soils. Cd accumulated primarily in the roots, transport to the shoots was rather low, but there were differences between the two investigated plants. Sunflower took up more Cd, and may have had larger stress-tolerance to Cd than maize. With the use of the bacterium-containing biofertilizer, the toxic effect of cadmium was moderated.
90002938|The sugar and bagasse production of forage sorghum hybrids were investigated in traditional and low-input management systems in a plot experiment on meadow chernozem soil.
23792376|Wheat with its advantages of high yield stability, well-mastered crop management and the possibility of long-term storage is suitable for ethanol production. Ethanol production has to be cost-effective and, therefore, wheat used in production should have a high potential for ethanol production. Previous works showed that low-nitrogen grain content is important for the relative ethanol yield and the agronomic yield for the absolute ethanol yield per area is important. In this work, importance of grain nitrogen and starch content for ethanol conversion efficiency was verified. Furthermore, environmental effects in relation to the ethanol conversion efficiency and ethanol yield in conditions of Central Europe were studied. With regard to the environmental factors, the annual rainfall sum was found to be the most important factor for ethanol conversion efficiency, while the grain yield was found to be the most important factor for the ethanol yield. On the basis of these findings it can be considered that wheat varieties possessing high yields of low protein grain planted in areas with higher rainfall amount would be ideal for the production of ethanol.
23785341|Breadmaking quality characterization of wheat genotypes is a widely used approach to evaluate breeding material. Biochemical data on storage proteins describe their nutritive value, and to some extent they are related to their baking performance. A group of recently created high bread quality wheat cultivars and lines Shabla, 2571-65-4, 2579-30, 12-11-19, 4-P2-3, 7-P2-6, 14-P2-4, 18-P2-4, 24-F-8, Pliska, Slavyanka 196 and Sadovo 1 is the subject of this study. The total protein content of 70% flour, amino-acid composition, Osborn extraction fractions and HMW glutenin subunits are investigated. The data received by now show a similar amino acid composition between the genotypes investigated although in many cases the differences are statistically significant concerning some amino acids. The total essential amino acid level in eight of investigated genotypes is lower than that of cultivar Sadovo 1 and correlates negatively to their higher total protein content. Statistically significant total protein content correlates with sedimentation value, wet gluten and loaf volume, globulins, correlate with dough stability and farinograph value, gliadins - with wet gluten and loaf volume, while glutenins correlate with sedimentation value, wet gluten, dough stability and farinograph value. HMW glutenin subunits are in a good accordance with sedimentation value.
23786056|Yield and soil nitrate-N was measured in a long-term nutrient supply experiment in Kompolt, Hungary. The objective of the study was to examine the post-effect of lucerne on a winter wheat-maize double cropping system. The results suggest that lucerne had significant effect on soil nitrate-N content in 0-300 cm. Nutrient supply modified this effect. The peak of nitrate-N accumulation occurred in 150 cm depth. The maximum amount of nitrate-N originated from the highest (176 kg N/ha) treatment level without lucerne in the rotation and has not reached 100 kg N/ha, while it reached more than 200 kg N/ha with lucerne. Yield of winter wheat showed significant difference only in case of control after lucerne.
23790303|A leaf rust resistance gene transferred from the tetraploid wheat Triticum timopheevii (Zhuk.) Zhuk. (genomic composition: AtAtGG) into common wheat Triticum aestivum L. conditioned resistance at the seedling and adult plant stages in the introgression line 'line 842-2'. To determine chromosome location and to map the resistance gene an F2 population from a cross between 'line 842-2' and susceptible wheat cultivar 'Skala' was developed and screened against leaf rust pathotype 77 (Puccinia triticina Erikss.). Microsatellite markers detected introgressions of the T. timopheevii genome on chromosomes 1A, 2A, 2B, 5B and 6B of 'line 842-2'. Linkage analysis revealed an association between leaf rust resistance and microsatellite markers located on chromosome 5B. The markers Xgwm880 and Xgwm1257 were closely linked to the resistance gene with genetic distances of 7.7 cM and 10.4 cM, respectively. Infection type tests with three leaf rust isolates resulted in different patterns of infection types of 'line 842-2' and 'Thatcher' near-isogenic line with the Lr18 gene on chromosome 5B. The data corroborated the hypothesis of the diversity of the resistance coming from T. timopheevii. The resistance gene of the introgression 'line 842-2' seems to be different than Lr18 and therefore it was designated LrTt2.
23785322|A total of 10 maize varieties comprising of 5 inbreds and 5 hybrids were tested for the production of fumonisin B1 by Fusarium moniliforme MRC-826 in laboratory. Considerable variation in fumonisin B1 production was found between different maize varieties. Most of the varieties supported good fungal growth but the toxin production was not correlated with the fungal biomass.
23789918|The effect of 10, 25 and 50 M Cd(NO3)2 on the fatty acid composition was investigated in young maize seedlings (Zea mays L., hybrid Norma). After 7 days' exposure to cadmium slight changes were observed in the fatty acid composition, which were more pronounced in the roots than in the leaves. In the leaves cadmium did not affect the lipid composition of the monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) or digalactosyldiacylglycerol (DGDG) fractions, while in the phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and phosphatidylglycerol (PG) fractions there was a decrease in the proportion of hexadecanoic acid (16:0) and an increase in the level of linoleic acid (18:2) and linolenic acid (18:3). The proportion of trans-3-hexadecanoic acid in leaf PG also decreased. In the roots significant changes were observed in all the fractions examined after Cd stress. In the MGDG the level of stearic acid (18:0) and oleic acid (18:1) decreased, but that of 18:2 and 18:3 increased. In the case of PE the amount of 16:0 decreased, while that of 18:0, 18:1 and 18:3 increased. In the PG fraction the proportion of 16:0, 18:0 and 18:1 decreased, while that of 18:2 increased. The ratio of 16:0 also decreased in the DGDG fraction, while that of 18:0, 18:1 and 18:2 increased. The changes in the fatty acid composition were associated with an increase in the double-bond index and in the percentage of unsaturation in leaf PG, and in the MGDG, PG and DGDG fractions in the roots.
23789330|Morphology, shape and surface area of wheat kernel are important factors for the characterisation of winter wheat (Triticum aestivum) varieties in the milling industry. The surface area of kernel, due to the lack of a simple and reliable method, is not measured, but usually calculated from the length and diameter of kernel. Silver precipitation, a new original method has been developed for the measurement of kernel surface area. This method is suitable for measuring the surface of cereal seed in case of individual kernel or more kernels together. According to the silver precipitation method, metal silver was precipitated on the kernel surface. After this step the precipitated silver was dissolved from the kernel and the silver concentration in the solution was measured by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry. The concentration of silver in the solution is in close correlation with the surface area of kernel. The method was calibrated to the direct surface measurement of individual kernels and was compared to the calculated surface results.
23781526|To maximize the food uses of barley grain, its characteristics need to be elaborated. Because barley flour lacks gluten such as bread wheats contain, the methods of evaluation often applied to soft wheat flour quality were adapted. In the barley lines tested, grain protein levels ranged from 9.3 to 16.3%. Barley grain milled on the Buhler experimental mill produced flour yields from 59.7 to 79.7%. The flour, when made into sugar snap cookies, produced cookie diameters of 134.5 to 150.8 mm. High alkaline water retention capacities (AWRC) were typically from 99.0 to 146.6%. The crude ash content of flour was 1.27 to 1.83%. Flour was grey in appearance. The diameter of cookies was highly correlated with AWRC (r=.412**), flour yield (r=.267**), flour ash content (r=.468**), protein content of grain (r=.232**), and flour (r=.281**). Flour ash and flour protein percentages were highly correlated, r=.580**.
90003122|The aim of this paper was to determine organic and total P in soils of continental part of Croatia. All soil samples (n = 40) were grouped according to soil reaction into two groups: acid soils ranged from pH
90003286|This study identified
23786274|The objective of the present study was to evaluate the genotype X environment interaction and its quantification by means of additive main effects and multiplicative interaction (AMMI) and joint linear regression analysis at the IV and Vsouth Argentinean wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) subregions. Grain yield data from 1992-1995 wheat regional trials network were analyzed. The data were divided in early sowing date (late May - late June) and late one (during July to beginning of August). Nine genotypes and 50 environments (location by year combination) were evaluated at early sowing date and 8 genotypes and 44 environments were analyzed at late one. AMMI and Joint Linear regression analyses were employed. Regression heterogeneity was nonsignificant at neither of two sowing dates. This technique didn't reveal the components of interaction. AMMI analysis, suggested the inclusion of the first three principal component analysis (PCA) for the early sowing date that accounted for 47.67, 29.41 and 12.24% of interaction sum of squares (SS), respectively, while two first PCA axes captured 44.20 and 21.33% of interaction SS, respectively, for the late one. The AMMI model retained 98.87% (early) and 96.64% (late) of the total SS. AMMI analysis proved to be a more efficient way of evaluating the GXE interactions than joint linear regression for the data set used here.
90003358|Maize is one of Hungarys major cereals. In the 1970s and 1980s, we were in the frontline regarding yields and genetic advancement. However, yield fluctuation in maize has increased to 50-60% from 10-20% since the 1980s, which was partly caused by the increase in weather extremes due to climate change and by agrotechnical shortcomings.
23779086|Wheat ears were harvested every two days from the 2nd to the 22nd day after pollination and the germination of the immature seeds was studied at 20, 12, and 4+20C. The harvested seeds were germinated either immediately in the green state, or after drying them for three days in the ear or on filter paper, or after drying them for 12 weeks in the ear. The seedlings were then planted out. It was found that when germination was carried out immediately after harvesting, 14 day old embryos were capable of germinating, whereas after 3 days of drying even 10 day old seeds germinated. After 12 weeks of storage or drying in the ear even the 2 day old immature seeds germinated. The best germination results from a wheat breeding point of view were obtained with seeds which were at least 16 days old, and which were germinated at 12C after post-harvest drying. After being dried for 12 weeks even 6-8 day old seeds germinated well. Seedlings originating from these seeds remained alive after planting out and developed into plants suitable for propagation.
23777454|Correlations and path-coefficients between ear characters and grain yield were studied in the parental, F1 and F2 generations of a 66 diallel set in wheat. Among ear characters, weight of grains per ear and the number of tillers per plant were the most important direct components of yield. Characters like ear length and the number of spikelets per ear were not found to be the important component characters of grain yield. Ear characters like weight of grains per ear, the number of tillers per plant and the number of grains per ear did not have any negative association among themselves. In general, pattern of correlation coefficients remained same in all the three generations studied and the improvement in their magnitude over parental generation was noticed in the F1 and F2 generations.
90003115|Due to strengthening of environment-conscious way of thinking and increased social demands on foods free from chemical residues, organic farming comes more and more into prominence. In organic production, instead of fertilization, important role is obtained by different organic manures, compost and also green manure in nutrient supply. The modification of the production technology, it influences the utility of other inputs and the costs of production too. In this study the relation between fertilization and profitability in winter wheat sector is examined.
23787237|The electrophoretic phenotypes of histone H1 were determined for 40 nullitetrasomic lines, all the possible combinations except for N2A-T2B and N4D-T4B, and 3 ditelosomic lines deficient for short arms of homoeologous group 5 chromosomes of Triticum aestivum cv. 'Chinese Spring'. Evidence was obtained that six histone H1 subtypes are encoded by homoeologous genes located in the long arms of the homoeologous group 5 chromosomes. The histone H1 genes located in chromosome arms 5AL, 5BL and 5DL were designated as HstH1-A1, HstH1-A2; HstH1-B1, HstH1-B2 and HstH1-D1, HstH1-D2, respectively. Polymorphisms for the loci HstH1-A2, HstH1-B2 and HstH1-D1 were observed among 21 cultivars of common wheat.
90003475|Cd contamination of soils and its easy uptake and translocation in plants cause serious disfunctions in plant metabolism, including photosynthesis. Thus, retarded development and damage of thylakoids come into prominence, which may be accompanied by an acclimation of the thylakoid structure and function to the changed circumstances. To elucidate these alterations, we studied Cd induced organizational/compositional changes of thylakoid supercomplexes, and parallel changes in the excitation quenching. Poplar (
90003014|Stability of quality parameters in bread wheat is becoming an important requirement for the milling and baking industries. By conducting multilocation trials wheat breeders are able to select genotypes well adapted to a wide range of environments. The objective of this study was to evaluate grain yield and quality traits of new promising breeding lines from Bc Institute Zagreb in different environments. Botinec (calcaric alluvial soil) and Rugvica (semigley soil) were locations with favorable grain yield whereas at Lovas (degraded chernozem soil), better quality was achieved by all tested genotypes. Several breeding lines performed well regarding grain yield as well as quality traits in comparison with standard cultivars. Due to significantly higher grain yield compared to all other genotypes, breeding line Bc9362 can be pointed out as the most promising for commercial production in a broad range of environments, whereas Bc5204 and Bc5167 had most favorable quality traits (protein content, Zeleny sedimentation value and water absorption).
23786976|Oat (Avena sativa L.) have been cultivated in China for approximately 2000 years. Little is known about the origin of Chinese oat, and Western access to this germplasm pool has been limited. The objective of this research was to compare the relative levels of genetic diversity in a sample of 119 Chinese hulled and hull-less accessions with a sample of 33 hulled Western A. sativa and A. byzantina C. Koch accessions using RAPD analysis. Seventy-two polymorphic fragments were amplified by 18 primers in the Chinese and Western accessions. The Chinese germplasm pool exhibited a lower level of diversity than the Western germplasm pool. Sixty-seven polymophic fragments were detected in Western germplasm versus 49 in Chinese germplasm. The polymorphic index for Chinese germplasm was one-half that observed for Western germplasm, and the probability of observing a phenotype in Chinese germplasm that was not present in Western germplasm was one-tenth the reciprocal probability. A 152 x 152 relationship matrix of all pairwise combinations of the Chinese and Western accessions was constructed based on Jaccard's distance estimates. The results suggested that the Chinese accessions, especially the hulled types, had a greater affinity with the nineteenth century A. sativa germplasm pool of northern and central Europe than with recent North American spring- and fall-sown cultivars, or the A. byzantina cultivars of Mediterranean origin.
23786097|Nine parental lines along with their F1 progenies were investigated for general combining ability (GCA) effects on embryo-like-structure (ELS) production in anther culture and seed production. One hundred and twenty anthers were plated each in 60 mm Petri dish in 4 replications. Significant differences were found among the cultivars in respect to the production of ELS, while among the parents no significant differences in seed production were observed. Evaluating the combining ability effects, among the female parent lines GK Mura and GK Favorit showed the best results in ELS production and in hybrid seed production. Among the male parent varieties similar positive result was performed in the ELS- and F1 seed production by GK Kalsz and GK Zugoly. Hybrid seed- and ELS production in anther culture are genetically independent characters. But, in our experiment both of them showed similar regulation. This might be due to a hybrid effect. ELS formation is found to be controlled mostly by additive gene effects.
90002825|A two-year study was aimed to evaluate fruit decay and Monilinia fruit rot in three storage methods [controlled atmospheres (CA), ultra-low oxygen (ULO), and traditional] on apples during a five-month storage period. Four treatments, replicated four times, were studied: i) healthy fruit, ii) injured fruit, iii) healthy fruit including one monilinia infected fruit, and iv) injured fruit including one monilinia infected fruit. Our results clearly demonstrated that fruit loss during storage is highly influenced by health and injury status of stored fruits in all storage methods. In both years, the lowest and largest fruit decays occurred under the ULO and traditional storage conditions, respectively. Fruit decay was fully suppressed in ULO storage except in the injured fruit treatments. Under CA and traditional storage conditions, when healthy fruit were stored, fruit decay was significantly lower compared with treatments of injured fruit including one monilinia infected fruit. Half of the fruit decay was caused by
90003201|Wheat Fusarium head blight (FHB) may cause serious losses in grain yield and quality in China. More than 7 million hectares which approximately accounts for 25% of the total areas in China is infected by the disease. The cultivation of wheat varieties with resistance to Fusarium head blight is recognized as one of the most important components to diminish losses due to this disease. Chinese wheat breeders have commenced the research on FHB since 1950s. Wheat cultivars with improved FHB resistance were developed through conventional breeding. Some famous resistant varieties such as Sumai 3, Yangmai 158 and Ning 7840 were released from Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, these varieties were widely applied in wheat production and breeding programs. Significant achievements concerning molecular mapping and marker assisted selection have been made in the past decade. The major QTL on chromosome 3BS was identified and located in the same region on chromosome 3BS in Sumai 3, Ning 894037, Wangshuibai, and Chinese Spring. Using SSR marker in this QTL region for assisted selection, some lines with the same resistance to FHB were obtained. New STS markers and SSCP markers were developed and will be tested for the efficiency of MAS. However, further achievements are still hindered by a number of constraints. More FHB resistance genetic resources from landrace in middle to lower reaches of Yangtze River are necessary to be used for improving FHB resistant. The genetic mechanism of the varieties contributing the resistance to improved cultivars is needed to be understood. Development of functional markers for FHB is discussed.
23777655|The genetic analysis of leaf rolling was carried out using Griffing (1056 b) and Hayman (1954) methodologies on 5 x 5 diallel. All the analyses pointed towards predominant role of additive genetic variance in the expression of this character. Combining ability analysis also indicated highly significant s.c.a., but its magnitude was low when compared with g.c.a. variance. Parents HD 1976, UP 245 and UP 240 were found good combiners for leaf rolling. However, there is need to experimentally substantiate the desirability of this character in wheat.
23782975|As a result of the accomplishment of a breeding programme with introduction of English wheat cultivars the lines K 372/3473 and K 373/3473 were bred. Their productivity is higher than that of the standard cultivar Sadovo 1 by 5.8% and 11.1%. They are 10 or more days earlier than the English breeding cultivars and have multikernel spikes and excellent productivity tillering.
23779253|As a result of the treatment of seeds from T. monococcum L. 2n = 2x = 14 with EMS in O,5% concentration for 3 hours at pH 7,0 all 6 plants possessing symptoms characteristic of the hexaploid species T. sphaerococcum Perc. were separated in M2. During further cyto-genetic studies in M3M5 their recessive nature to inheritance was established. The sphaerococcoid mutants obtained described firstly by us in T. monococcum have an theoretical significance in connection with the taxonomic and phylogenetic studies on the genus Triticum L. The sphaerococcoid mutants obtained in T. monococcum give us reason to consider, that the localization of this new spaerococcoid gene is out of D genome because of the fact that T. monococcum possesses only an AA genome. The results obtained corroborate the assumption made by us earlier about the equivalence of three genus Triticum L.
23785247|Frost resistance of different monosomic lines were investigated under controlled environment conditions. In the case of Cheyenne, Mironovskaya 808 and Rannyaya 12 a reduction in the degree of frost resistance was observed when chromosomes 5A, 3B, 3A, 5B or 7A were missing. In two of the monosomic series there was also a drop in the level of frost resistance in monosomic lines 5D and 7B. The frost resistance of monosomic line 4B, on the other hand, was significantly better than that of the disome in two of the three cultivars. In previous experiments using substitution lines, the presence of a 4B chromosome originating from a variety with better frost resistance also led to an increase in frost resistance. The results suggest that a gene suppressor for frost resistance may be located on chromosome 4B.
90002747|In two-year experiment in apple orchard on calcareous soil in eastern Croatia, N fertilization and crop load influence on fruit macroelement content and fruit quality was investigated. The effect of year was significant in all tested parameters except Ca and Mg content in fruits, with higher values observed in dryer 2003 year. The applied N fertilization and crop load did not influence any of tested parameters except fruit weight. The interaction of year and crop load had an impact on fruit Ca content and fruit weight, which was negatively related to all macroelement concentrations as well as fruit dry matter content, total acid and total sugar content in given experimental conditions.
90003295|The trichothecenes T-2 and HT-2 toxins have been found at much higher levels in oats from Sweden and N. Europe in 2005-2007 compared to surveys during 1990-ties. High portions (13-44%) of the samples were above the suggested EU max level (500 g/kg) for the sum of T-2 and HT-2 toxins in raw oats. Factors behind these high toxin levels have been studied. Variations due to oat variety have been found in trials, but no or small effects of fungicides. Processing of oats, cleaning and dehulling, have reduced the toxins often by more than 90%. Sortex equipment to remove discolored kernels from the dehulled kernel fraction reduced the toxins further. Oat by-products from the milling process were 3-6 times higher in HT-2 + T-2 toxins compared to original oats.
90002815|Processes of fungal diseases highly affect soil-plant interrelations. Twenty four samples of sheep feed (kernel maize, maize silage, alfalfa haylige, grass and alfalfa hay, concentrates were collected in Bakonszeg (Hungary) and were analysed for fungi contamination and mycotoxin content (F-2, T-2, DON, Ochratoxin) and the correlation among them. Various species of fungi were found in all samples.
23785226|Bread wheat cultivars that were genetically improved by traditional methods or by hybridization show higher grain yields than older cultivars. The increase in grain yield associated with the use of semidwarf genotypes is generally explained by an increase in harvest index since the biological yield was not affected. It is not known; however, whether this is also true for wheat hybrids with higher yield performance. The objective of this work is: (i) to compare biomass production, grain yield and harvest index of traditional and semidwarf varieties, and of wheat hybrids and their parents; (ii) to compare the morphogenesis and survival of florets and spikelets for the same materials. The growth and the development of old; new and hybrid cultivars were followed from emergence to physiological maturity. The experiment was conducted at INTA Balcarce Experimental Station during the 1987 growing season. The treatments were eight wheat genotypes, four with Gai/Rht genes, 2 hybrids (with Gai/Rht parents) and two traditional cultivars with gai/rht genes. The experiment was a randomized complete block design with 4 replications. Genotypes with Gai/Rht genes showed higher yields and more grains/m2 than the traditional genotypes. This increase in yield was linked to an improvement in harvest index. The hybrids also showed higher yields and more grains than their parents but these characteristics were explained by a greater biomass yield. The larger number of grains/m2 in improved materials was due to a greater survival of reproductive structures within the ear rather than to improved reproductive morphogenesis.
23787295|Lack of reliable selection criteria is one of the major reasons for the limited success in salt tolerance. This study was designed to determine the responses of yield parameters in rice plants to the selection for salt tolerance. F2 populations were developed from crosses between 'M-202' (salt-sensitive) and 'Agami' (moderately salt-tolerant) and grown in the greenhouse under salt stress (NaCl and CaCl2, 5:1 molar concentration). Selections were made among the F2 plants for the highest values of grain weight per plant, tillers per plant, and panicle weight under salt stress. The F3 populations of the selected F2 plants and unselected F2 plants, and their parental plants were evaluated for salt tolerance. Broad-sense heritability and realized heritability of grain weight per plant were determined to be 0.40-0.45 and 0.25, respectively. Higher broad-sense heritability (0.45 to 0.65) and realized heritability (0.42) of tillers per plant suggest this trait is genetically controlled. Moderately high realized heritability indicates the effectiveness of early selection for salt tolerance if tiller number is used as selection criterion. Low genetic correlation between tiller number and panicle weight was identified in F3 populations derived from the selected F2 plants. The low genetic correlation indicates the low compensatory relationship between these two yield parameters in equal spaced rice plants under salt stress.
23788057|The aim of the experiments was to develop translocation lines by inducing homoeologous chromosome pairing in a 4H(4D) wheat-barley substitution line previously developed in Martonvsr. It was hoped to incorporate various segments of the barley 4H chromosome from the 4H(4D) substitution into wheat. Observations were made on the frequency with which wheat-barley translocations appeared in the F2 progeny grains from a cross between the line CO4-1, which carries the Ph suppressor gene from Aegilops speltoides and thus induces a high level of homoeologous chromosome pairing, and the 4H(4D) wheat-barley substitution line, and on which chromosome segments were involved in the translocations. The translocations were identified by means of genomic in situ hybridisation. Of the 117 plants examined, three (2.4 %) were found to contain translocations. A total of four translocations were observed, as one plant contained two different translocations. The translocations consisted of one centric fusion, two dicentric translocations and one acrocentric chromosome. Plants carrying translocations were raised in the phytotron and the selection of homozygous translocation lines was commenced from the F3 progeny grains.
90003319|A strain of
23785311|Photosynthetic oxygen evolution in light and oxygen consumption in dark were studied in two parental bread wheat cultivars and five selections initially made for stomatal frequency. Discs cut out from flag leaf blades of field grown plants were assayed in a sensitive oxygen measuring system over a period starting from flag leaf emergence. Chlorophyll content, flag leaf blade area, stomatal frequency, mesophyll cell size and lobe number were estimated. Photosynthetic rate per unit leaf area, respiration rate per unit chlorophyll, leaf area and stomatal frequency differences were significant. Correlations between different parameters were drawn. Results indicate that selections made on the basis of anatomical or morphological characters may have different photosynthetic characteristics useful in crop improvement.
23780366|Each of 21 monosomics as well as the disomic of Chinese Spring were crossed with the winter wheat variety Rannyaya 12. In the F1 generation monosomics were selected by cytological examination and were then self-pollinated. The F2 generations of the monosomic and disomic lines obtained by selfing were raised, hardened, frozen and regrown in phytotron chambers. Materials were frozen under two freezing regimes /-12C and -14C/. At both freezing temperatures the frost resistance in general was inferior in the monosomics as compared to the disomic. Presumably the reduction of chromosome dosage in monosomy and nullisomy produces greater effects on the frost resistance than the allelic variation. Judging by the percentage of frost resistant plants under the two freezing regimes, monosomic lines 5A, 4B, 6B and 4D are relatively frost resistant, while monosomic lines 3A, 4A, 1B and 7B are relatively frost susceptible as compared to the disomic line. At the -14C freezing temperature monosomic lines 5A, 2B, 4B and 6B appear most resistant, whereas monosomic lines 6A, 1B and 3B are most susceptible.
23781573|The cytogenetics of intergeneric hybrids between Agropyron elongatum (2n=2x= 14, 2n=4x=28, 2n=10x=70), A. junoeum (2n=6x=42), Elymus canadensis (2n=4x=28, SSHH), E.giganteus (2n=4x=28, J1J1X1X1), Hordeum vulgare (2n=2x=14, HH), Secale oereale (2n=2x=14, RR), Triticum timopheevii (2n=4x=28, AAGG), T. turgidum (2n=4x=28, AABB) and T. aestivum (2n=6x=42, AABBDD) is presented. Mention is made of backcross I and II progeny resulting from (H. vulgare - T. turgidum) x T. turgidum, (H. vulgare - T. aestivum - T. aestivum) x T. aestivum, and (T. aestivum - E. giganteus - T. aestivum) x T. aestivum combinations. The production of some trigeneric hybrids is reported. Somatic cytology confirms the amphiploid status of T. aestivum x A. junceum plants to be 2n=12x=84.
23785222|The response of three hexaploid wheats to anther culture was tested on media containing gibberellic acid (GA3) or -phenylethylamine (PEA) in the presence or absence of 2,4Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The experimental design consisted of randomized blocks with 3 replications per treatment. In each treatment approximately 1000 anthers were cultured. Genotype, BP-40 had the highest value for the number of embryoids per 100 anthers but almost all of the regenerated plants were albino. In contrast, genotype BP19 produced the highest number of green regenerants. In two genotypes out of three studied an antagonistic effect between GA3 and 2,4-D for embryo yield was observed. Replacing 2,4-D by either gibberellic acid or -phenylethylamine in the medium decreased the number of embryoids and regenerated plantlets per 100 anthers. PEA increased the number of embryoids per 100 anthers in two genotypes. Basal medium supplemented with gibberellic acid increased the ratio of plant regeneration in- comparison with the control basal medium in one out of three genotypes tested. Haploid plantlets were produced at a high frequency in induction medium supplemented with GA3 (with or without 2,4-D).
23785284|The genetic variability for haploid regeneration parameters and yield traits, and their relationship were studied using 39 genotypes of hexaploid winter wheat in two separate experiments, realized with the same conditions in a greenhouses. The experimental design was a randomized-complete block design with three replications, each replication consisting of one pot containing three plants per genotype per experiment. The genetic correlations between the different haploid regeneration parameters by anther culture and yield traits were determined from the means of all replications of each gentoype. The mode of association of all the traits was also studied by using the principal component analysis method. Extensive genetic variability was shown for all haploid regeneration parameters and yield traits. Positive and significant correlations (P=0.001) among haploid regeneration parameters and yield traits were observed, but there was no significant positive or negative relationships between these two groups of traits. We conclude that selection for androgenic parameters does not have any negative effect on yield traits and successful selection should be made for haploid regeneration parameters and/or yield traits in crossing programmes.
23783101|During the present investigation, seed of two wheat cultivars, namely WH 147 susceptible to leaf and stripe rusts, and powdery mildew and WH 283 resistant to above two rusts, moderately resistant to powdery mildew were mixed in various proportions and development of diseases was studied. A reduction in the incidence of leaf and stripe rust and, to some extent, powdery mildew was observed due to varietal mixtures. The grain yield of pure crop of WH 147 was greatly reduced due to pressure of various diseases. The varietal mixtures gave significantly higher yield than WH 147 alone. The decrease in the intensity of various diseases in mixtures may be mainly due to the reduction in the percentage of susceptible plants in the population, barrier created due to resistant plants and induced "resistance" (escape) due to reduction of inoculum of virulent pathogen biotypes.
23783890|Twenty-five durum wheat accessions, preliminarily selected for drought tolerance from a large germplasm collection on the basis of a visual score particularly devised for this purpose, were further evaluated in two subsequent very dry seasons. Grain yield and other important morpho-agronomic characters were recorded. Significant variation for yield was found among the visually selected entries. Some of them performed consistently well in the two seasons. Differences of performance were associated to differences for key traits, such as earliness, plant height and frost tolerance. When empirically compared to advanced breeding materials grown under the same conditions, the 25 selected accessions appeared, on average, a valuable germplasm set for drought tolerance. The drought tolerance score confirmed to be a good predictor of yield performance under stressful conditions other than those of the visual evaluation.
23789880|Soil gravel content affects many soil physical properties, as well as crop yield. Little is known regarding the influence of soil gravel content on growth and nutrient uptake of durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.). The accumulation of nitrogen and phosphorous during the vegetative and reproductive periods and the contribution of pre-anthesis assimilates to grain N and P content have been evaluated in two durum wheat varieties grown on soils with 0, 10, 20 and 30% gravel content. The two varieties showed similar behaviour and the increase of soil gravel decreased plant biomass during the entire biological cycle. Nitrogen and P concentration of all plant parts was not affected by soil gravel content, while N and P content was greatly reduced, owing to the effect on dry matter yield. Post-anthesis accumulation and remobilization of N and P were greatly reduced: the decrease from gravel-free soil to 30% gravel content was about 41 kg N ha1 and 4 kg P ha1 for the former and 14 kg N ha1 and 2 kg P ha1 for the latter. The differences in growth rate were attributed to differences in development of the root system due to the restricted soil volume.
90003069|On the brown soil of Eastern Croatia the effects of the soil tillage systems have been investigated (A
23792278|Loose smut of wheat is a disease of world wide significance. Resistant cultivars constitute a potentially useful and environmentally benign method of controlling this disease. The genetic basis of resistance in 20 wheat genotypes with resistance to Ustilago tritici race T11 was studied in crosses with the widely grown but susceptible Indian cultivar, PBW 343. These lines were also involved in 10 'resistant  resistant' crosses, to infer diversity for resistance genes in this set. All 30 crosses were developed to the F 3 stage. Fifteen parents were inferred to carry dominant genes for resistance to race T11. Ten of these resistant lines (ML 521, W 59, W 1616, W 2484, W 2531, W 5915, W 6202, WL 1786, WL 2956 and WL 3450) had resistance controlled by 2 dominant genes acting in a complementary manner whereas in 4 lines (W 4461, W 5100, W 2615 and WL 3951), there was a single dominant gene and in a single genotype, WL 5907, there were 2 dominant genes with duplicate gene action governing the resistance. In lines W 2139, W 3899, W 4985, W 5450 and W 5792 a single recessive gene conferred resistance. Inheritance in two crosses, one derived from a line possessing a single dominant gene and the other from a line possessing a single recessive gene was re-analyzed and successfully confirmed in F 5 generation. The segregation of most of the 'resistant  resistant' crosses conformed to the inferences drawn about the parents in the 'resistant  susceptible' crosses.
23784291|Spring wheat (Triticum aestivum) lines derived from in vitro selection with 0, 4, and 8 g L1 NaCl were screened for salt tolerance in a greenhouse environment. A large scale, salinity screening system was designed to provide uniform selection pressure in controlled environmental conditions for screening and selecting potentially tolerant genotypes. The screening system showed reliable and predictable salinity levels over four different experiments. After three preliminary screens and a confirmation test, two tissue culture regenerated lines were selected for field testing to verify improved salinity tolerance.
90003098|Effects of prenatal exposition to fumonisin B
90003403|If maize production is to be successful it is essential to be clear about the intended end-use and the farm conditions in order to make a wise choice of variety and technology. Recommendations on the end-use of the varieties can only be made based on knowledge of both yield levels and chemical quality. A total of 96 hybrids from four FAO maturity groups were examined at four locations in 2008 in order to analyse their yield and quality and to determine the effect of ecological factors on a number of parameters. The highest yield averages were recorded for hybrids in the FAO 300 group (12.95 t ha
90002637|The main purpose of grapevine solarization technique is reflection of sunlight into the grapes, and therefore changes in light spectrum and temperature can be noticed. Effect of solarization on the anthocyanin content in Pinot noir wines, was investigated in 2004, 2005 and 2006 year. A HPLC procedure was used for the analysis of anthocyanins. Solarization technique caused higher anthocyanins content in all three investigated years. The strongest solarization effect was observed in 2004 year which can be seen through higher content of 3-
23783963|Two groups of F2:4 derived soft wheat lines differing only on the Glu-B1 locus were used to compare the contribution of 12 measured traits to wheat quality in the presence of different Glu-B1 high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS). A stepwise multiple regression analysis was used. Contributing factors for the two sets of material differed largely. In one group of material the presence of HMW-GS 17+18 was a large contributor to variability in wheat quality, especially to the alveograph and mixograph measurements. In the other set of material the contribution of these HMW-GS was very small, but AWRC was a major contributor to variability in wheat quality. This suggest that the expression of quality characteristics was largely influenced by genetic background. The Glu-B1 subunits will, however, have to be taken into account when parents for a soft wheat breeding programme are chosen.
23782735|The objective of this study was to examine the activity of -and -amylase at different developmental stages (seedling, milk and was maturity, mature grain) of 5 five genotypes and their ten F1 hybrids. -amylase activity was highest in the seedling stage and lowest in wax maturity. -amylase activity was highest in mature grain and lowest in maturity. On the basis of this results we indicated the hybrids which are resistent for unavorable harvest and storage conditions.
23783755|The ability of 18 barley genotypes (Hordeum vulgare L.) to form callus and regenerate green plants from immature embryo explants was examined. Seedling phenotypic or morphogenic somaclonal variation among second generation regenerated plants (R2) was evaluated and compared to sodium azide-induced mutagenesis. Calli were formed and plants were regenerated from immature embryo explants from all 18 genotypes. However, the amount and condition of the calli and percentage of plants regenerated varied greatly among genotypes. The average regeneration rate was 10.0% with a rate range of 0.5 to 51.3%. Seedling somaclonal variation frequencies among R2 plant rows ranged from 0.0 to 22.7% for individual genotypes with an average of 17.2% in 1987, and among R2 head rows in 1988 ranged from 0.0 to 37.9% with an average of 7.8%. The types of seedling variants observed included albino, yellow, lightgreen, striped and mottled plants, lethals, glossies and dwarfs. The somaclonal variation observed was largely due to genetic mutations as verified by R3 segregation. Sodium azide-induced seedling mutation frequencies for two genotypes were about 3X the average somaclonal variation frequencies observed. However, some individual genotype somaclonal variation frequencies were equal or greater than the induced mutation frequencies. The potential of exploiting somaclonal variation as an additional source of genetic variability in applied breeding programs has been demonstrated. Somaclonal variation could be enhanced by using radiation or chemical mutagens in the tissue culture system. Field and in vitro selection procedures could be applied.
23783984|From the GA-responsive winter wheat Mv 4, two short-stemmed, GA-insensitive somaclones were obtained. The growth habit remained stable through the SC2-SC5 generations. Evaluation of the F2 populations derived from crosses between the somaclones and Rht testers showed that GA-insensitivity of the Mv 4 dwarfs generated in vitro is governed by the Rht locus of the chromosome 4D. Beside their stunted growth, the Mv 4 dwarfs had variant and unstable gliadin polypeptide patterns, caused probably by another genetic event mediated in vitro. Grain and flour yield as well as baking potential of the somaclones were lower compared to those of the parent cultivar, however, in one crop year they matured 6-7 days earlier and their grains were richer in protein.
23790382|Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner) (European corn borer) is the main maize pest in Central and South Europe and it promotes Fusarium verticillioides infection on maize grains, which is able to produce fumonisins. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of the timing of pyrethroid treatments on European corn borer damage, fungal ear rot and fumonisin contamination. The field experiments were performed from 2005 to 2007 in NW Italy. Four application timings were compared to an untreated control. The insecticide treatments were applied at approximately 10 days intervals, starting from the end of flowering. The last treatment was performed approximately 15 days after the ECB flight peak. At harvest, the ears were rated for the incidence and severity of European corn borer damage and fungal ear rot symptoms, and the harvested kernels were analyzed for fumonisins B 1 + B 2 . In all the years, the treatments applied 710 days before the European corn borer adult flight peak showed the best efficacy to control insect damage on ears. Fungal ear rot and fumonisin contamination were clearly affected by European corn borer control. The occurrence of this mycotoxin in plots treated at the best pyrethroid application timing was significantly reduced, on average by 76%, compared to the untreated control. Furthermore, early insecticide applications, at the end of maize flowering, showed significantly lower fumonisin contamination than treatments applied at approximately 15 days after the adult flight peak. This research indicates that the production of maize kernels with low fumonisin content may be enhanced by a correct timing of the insecticide application against second generation European corn borer.
90002762|The effect of different kind of litters (wood, leaf and root) by changing their amount was studied on soil microbial activity (Fekete et al., 2007), litter decomposition rate and soil organic matter (SOM) content in Skfkt site. In this paper changes in SOM content is discussed by examining the changes of humus content. A six year experiment was conducted and shows a direct correlation between the litter production and SOM content. A well characterized difference was observed in changes of SOM content between litterless (NL, NR, NI) and the other (C, DW, DL) plots.
23786806|Biological species and vegetative compatibility groups (VCGs) are being used to distinguish biologically closely related groups of Fusarium isolates. Members of different biological species cannot cross sexually and will not form vegetative heterokaryons, even though they may be sympatric in their geographic distribution. Members of different VCGs belong to the same biological species and may cross sexually, but will not form vegetative heterokaryons. We have identified mutants that can form heterokaryons across the VCG boundary (prm) and that can form heterokaryons across both the biological species and VCG barriers (spc). These phenotypes can be conferred by single mutations at any of at least nine unlinked loci. None of the mutations isolated thus far have altered mating type. These mutants should provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying species and vegetative compatibility differences.
23786107|Cereals - especially common wheat - are the most important staple food; however, their grains often contain very low amounts of available iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu) and manganese (Mn). The aim of the present research was to study the existing variability in the seed inorganic nutrient composition of various Triticum L. and Aegilops L. species, and to investigate the hypothesized correlation between the ploidy level and the seed mineral nutrient concentrations. The results showed that generally higher copper (Cu), zinc (zn), calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg) contents were observed in the caryopsis of Aegilops L. species, while higher iron (Fe) concentration was found in the grains of Triticum L. accessions. The results do not confirm the hypothesis that the grains of the ancient wheat species - einkorn, emmer and spelt - generally have higher mineral nutrient contents than the recently cultivated varieties, except for iron (Fe), which is contained in a higher amount in the seeds of diploid wheat species. No correlation was found between the ploidy level and genome types (A, AB, AG, ABD, S, D, UM, DMS) and the mineral nutrient content of the grains. Similar results were found using hierarchical cluster analysis. As the 1000-kernel weight of wild species is generally smaller than that of cultivated species, the correlation between seed weight and mineral nutrient concentrations was also studied. The results showed that the increase in seed weights correlated significantly with the decrease in Ca and Mg concentrations. The results showed that to improve the human nutritional quality of wheat varieties, the best sources of higher Cu, Zn, Ca and Mg content could be found in the Aegilops L. genus, while genotypes with higher Fe content could be found in the Triticum L. genus.
90003183|CIMMYT has been working on FHB for more than 20 years. This paper gives an overview of activities presently conducted by scientists based in Mexico. CIMMYTs major comparative advantage is the high throughput field screening and phenotyping capacity allowing continuous collaboration with National Agricultural Research Systems (NARS) and Advanced Research Institutes (ARI) worldwide. CIMMYTs FHB research at headquarters in Mexico is a successful example of integration among field and laboratory research making it a unique platform for partnerships around the world with scientists and students interested in defeating this serious wheat disease.
23783842|Wheats from Bnkt played an important role in Hungarian wheat production from the thirties to the early sixties of this century. Their good flour quality was characterised mainly by a Brabender farinograph value of A, high gluten content and generally a 2+12 subunit at the HMW glutenin Glu-D1 locus. The breeding of wheat varieties with a similar type of quality would serve to broaden the genetic basis for the selection of good flour quality. Breeding lines with good breadmaking quality can be created not only from genotypes with 5+10 Glu-D1 subunits, but also from those with a 2+12 HMW glutenin composition. One example of this will be described below through a characterisation of the flour quality of the wheat line MvM 57-91.
23786787|The effects of pollen storage and detached-tiller culture on polyhaploid production of hexaploid wheat were examined using maize and pearl millet crosses. Pollen storage at ultra-low temperature did not affect polyhaploid production frequency in pearl millet crosses, but greatly reduced frequency in maize crosses. Stored pearl millet pollen can be used as an alternative medium for wheat polyhaploid production when fresh pollen is not available. Detaching wheat tillers with spikes at crossing time and culturing them in a solution containing sucrose, sulfurous acid and 2,4dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) resulted in no distinct reduction of polyhaploid production frequency in crosses with both maize and pearl millet. Hot-water emasculation after detaching wheat tillers was successful for these wide crosses. Detached-tiller culture makes it possible to collect the spikes from wheat plants growing in distant sites and handle them for wide crosses in a laboratory. These techniques avoid having to synchronize flowering times of both parents and result in considerable savings in terms of labor and space required for handling parent plants.
23787287|Although hexaploid bread wheat is one of the most preferred research objects as it is an essential crop plant, its origin is still a matter of debate. Two of the three diploid progenitors of hexaploid wheat (genome AABBDD) have been identified: Triticum urartu (genome AA) and Aegilops tauschii (genome DD) but the origin of the B genome remains controversial. Much evidence suggests that an ancestor form or an unknown close relative of the diploid Aegilops speltoides was the B genome donor. In the present work nuclear ribosomal ITS regions of T. aestivum, T. turgidum ssp. dicoccon, T. monococcum ssp. monococcum, T. urartu, Ae. tauschii and Ae. speltoides were sequenced and analysed. ITS sequences of relative species available from the database of EMBL were also taken into studies. This work aimed to help to clarify the origin of the genomes of hexaploid bread wheat.
23787206|The aim of this study was to obtain diploid rye/wheat chromosome substitutions or translocations. For this purpose crosses between substitution-translocation tetraploid rye with diploid rye and reciprocal crosses were conducted. Hybrid karyotypes were analyzed with the C-banding method. Percentage seed setting and seed-germination varied greatly with the direction of the cross. The cross of substitution-translocation tetraploid rye with diploid rye resulted in 18 plants, with chromosome number of 18-22. With the reciprocal cross already in the F1 generation 21 plants of diploid rye with wheat introgressions were obtained. These included four plants with single monosomic substitution wheat chromosomes: 1A, 2A, 5A, 7A, one plant with 4AL/4RS translocation, one with 6AL/6RS, seven plants  2AL/2RS and eight  7AL/7RS. Moreover, rye/wheat chromosome additions and addition-substitution were obtained in this cross. The presence of three 15 chromosome plants was confirmed, including two plants with single, monosomic wheat chromosomes 5A and 6A, and one with two monosomic wheat chromosomes 5A and 7A. One 16 chromosome plant with 2A, 17 chromosome plants with two wheat chromosomes 5A and 7A and one 18 chromosome plant with 5A were observed. Cytological analysis of the hybrids of the cross of diploid rye with tetraploid substitution-translocation rye revealed that none contained chromosomes of the wheat B genome. All 14-18 chromosome plants were fertile, had dehiscent anthers and set kernels.
23782990|Wide hybrids are both theoretically interesting and often of practical value. There have been significant advances in the production, analysis and utilization of wide hybrids in the Triticeae. These advances are described, partly as documentation of the process that has been made and partly as the basis for further developments.
23786779|By nitrogenase activity and diazotroph number determination, in the rhizosphere of several genetically divergent wheat genotypes, potential possibility of elementary nitrogen incorporation from the atmosphere by Triticum aestivum L. was investigated. In most studied cultivars, a positive correlation was found between nitrogenase activity and diazotroph number. The highest nitrogenase activity was found in cultivar Skopljanka (178.00 nmol C2H4/g of root) after 48h of reduction, in which number of diazotrophs was also the highest (955.0104).
23790347|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) production in the warm areas of South Asia is severely affected by spot blotch caused by Cochliobolus sativus. There are several inoculum sources suspected to harbor C. sativus during the off season. This study was conducted to determine survival and potential sources of C. sativus inoculum from rice stubble, wheat seed, soil and weeds in three cropping systems (wheat-rice, wheat-fallow and wheat-green manure) during the 2004 and 2005 wheat growing seasons at Rampur, Nepal. Wheat seed, soil and rice stubble in the field, and weed plants in and around research plots were examined for the presence of the pathogen. Koch's postulates were applied to verify representative strains. The pathogen was found in the wheat seed at moderate to high levels, but was absent in soil samples and rice stubble collected from the field before wheat was sown after rice. Weeds such as Blumea sp., Dichanthium annulatum, Digitaria ciliaris, Phalaris minor, Saccharum officinarum, Axonopus compressus, Brachiaria mutica, Eleusine coracana, Panicum sp., Paspalum scrobiculatum. Pennisetum purpureum, Setaria italica, Zea mays and Zizania aquatica harbored C. sativus. The C. sativus strains isolated from these weeds infected wheat by producing typical spot blotch symptoms. It is concluded that the weeds prevalent in different cropping sequences and on adjacent uncultivated land can serve as secondary hosts for C. sativus. This study presents important new information that could assist in better understanding spot blotch epidemiology and in developing integrated management strategies for spot blotch of wheat in the warmer growing regions of South Asia.
23783932|To determine the anther culture response of spring bread wheat, 44 cultivars and lines, and 14 F1s were cultured. Genotypes showed significant differences especially in callus induction and green plant proportion compared to plant regeneration. The results from F1s suggested that additive genetic effects predominated for callus induction. In addition, epistasis and heterosis were also observed in some crosses. Some cultivars had dominant or masking genes suppressing callus induction, which were functional in F1 crosses as well; however, probably because of minor genes or gene interactions their functions were some altered positively in their crosses. On the other hand, additive, epistasis and heterosis genetic effects were observed for plant regeneration and green plant proportion as well. In contrast to callus induction, the genotypes with low green plant proportion did not drastically reduce green plant proportion in their crosses. Insignificant correlation coefficients calculated between anther culture components (callus induction, plant regeneration, and green plant proportion) indicated that these are under the control of different genetic mechanisms.
90002960|Phytoremediation, i.e. recovering the health of soils or sediments contaminated with heavy metals by using green vegetation has today been a stimulating challenge for research and solutions in environmental protection all over the world. Among the phytoremediation processes, it is the in-situ inactivation technique that has special significance, since it reduces the dangers caused by the potential toxic impacts of heavy metals. Due to the vegetation providing green surfaces, the phytoremediation processes are environmentally friendly and cost-effective (10-12% percent of traditional methods). This paper presents the results of the floristical and vegetation examinations performed in the units of a former secondary sedimentation pond system in Hungary. The outcome of analyses on the chromium content of the plants will also be discussed.
23787188|Test weight is one of the most important characteristics for evaluating grain quality in oats. This study evaluated the role of oat kernel size and size distributions on test weight. Oat kernel size was measured from digital image analysis, sequential sieving and mean kernel mass of original oat samples and their different size fractions. Data from ten genotypes and eight environments indicated that smaller sized kernel fractions derived by sieving had higher bulk density than those from the larger sized kernel fraction. The smaller kernels also had greater groat percentages, indicating greater kernel density in smaller size fractions. To investigate a possible packing effect of different kernel sizes on test weight, the summation of volumes of size fractions was compared with the volume of the original sample. Our results indicated no significant differences between the volumes of the original sample and the sum of the volumes of their size fractions. This indicated that oats of uniform size packed just as efficiently as a mixture of different size kernels. A similar experiment evaluating bulk densities of the different size fractions reached the same conclusion. These results indicate that the test weight drops observed in seed cleaning, where the smaller kernels are removed, are due to the removal of the most dense kernels in the sample, and not to a packing effect, where smaller kernels might fill in spaces between larger kernels.
23790358|Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is one of the most important crops in the world, especially Asian countries. Genetics of important traits in rice for yield improvement have always been a major breeding objective. Agronomic traits are inherited quantitatively, so quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping for the potential use of molecular markers would be very helpful to plant breeders in developing improved rice varieties. In this investigation, a SSR linkage map of 1440.7cM of rice was constructed using 105 polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. The mapping population of 236 F 2:3 families derived from the cross of two rice varieties (Gharib x Sepidroud) was used for QTL mapping of agronomic traits. As many as 38 QTLs were detected to be associated with agronomic characteristics; some of them are being reported for the first time. The identified QTLs on specific chromosome regions explaining high phenotypic variance could be considered to use in marker-assisted selection (MAS) programs.
23781479|In an F6 line of spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), segregating for the Rht1 gene controlling semidwarfness, the grain-weight of the tall plants was significantly higher than that of the semidwarf plants. When grown separately in a field trial, the progeny of the tall plants yielded significantly heavier grains than the progeny of the semidwarf plants although these two progenies were quite similar in height and in total grain yield.
23786103|Advances of hybrid wheat breeding in China are reviewed in this paper. The hybrid wheat program was started in 1965 and now three systems, cytoplasm male sterility, chemical hybridization agents and two-line system, are used for hybrid wheat seed production. Many hybrids were enrolled in regional yield trials for registration and 3 hybrids were released. It is believed that hybrid wheat has a promising future and will make a great contribution to crop production in China.
23777656|Selfed and crossed seeds were developed for the two lines of wheat in the same way to avoid any differential response with respect to grain protein. The protein content of selfed and crossed seeds produced on a particular plant was same. The protein content in wheat seed is influenced by the genotype of the plant on which it develops rather than the genotype of the seed.
23789879|The role of special corns in human diets is increasing as a result of their favourable nutritional values. Little is known about mineral contents of different red and blue corns, although they may help to inhibit deficiency diseases mainly in the developing countries. During this study, mineral contents (15 elements) of 3 red and 9 blue corn varieties were examined with ICP-OES and ICP-MS. Highest contents of macroelements were as follows: P (3859.5562.1 mg kg1), K (4325.0469.5 mg kg1) and Mg (1450.0104.6 mg kg1) in the variety Black Mexican, S (1555.0128.6 mg kg1) in Santo Domingo Blue. In case of microelements, iron, zinc and selenium were highlighted. Except one genotype, iron contents were above 30 mg kg1. Blaumais, Hopi Turquoise and Hopi Blue contained more than 40 mg kg1 (41.046.3), which were above values published in the literature (10.0 mg kg1 in average). For zinc, we measured 15.231.5 mg kg1. Selenium contents (0.10.2 mg kg1) were also higher than in the literature (0.08 mg kg1). Plant selection could utilize variability of special element contents in enhancing these phenomena.
23787235|Anther culture was used to produce haploid plants from Aegilops variabilis ssp. euvariabilis x Secale cereale (inbred line) amphiploids (2n=42) and their parental forms. The anthers were cultured on modified induction media - C17 and PII. Androgenetic embryos were obtained only from amphiploid plants and the frequency depended on genotypes. On C17 medium 20.0 - 65.2 and on PII medium 1.4 - 15.7 androgenetic embryos /100 anthers were produced. The embryos were transferred to a regeneration medium 190-2 and 0.1 - 13.4 of green plants /100 androgenetic embryos were obtained. The haploid (n=21) chromosome number was found in all plants. Doubled haploids were produced by haploid colchicine treatment.
23789996|Ear rots of maize caused by Fusarium spp. reduce grain yield and produce mycotoxins, which are harmful to humans and animals. To breed maize cultivars resistant to Fusarium spp., reliable large-scale phenotyping is essential. Our objectives were to (i) examine the precision of the ELISA method for determination of important mycotoxins, namely deoxynivalenol (DON) and fumonisins (FUM), (ii) evaluate the potential of near-infrared reflectance spectroscopy (NIRS) to estimate concentrations of DON and FUM in grain produced in inoculated maize plants, and (iii) compare the efficiency of ELISA, NIRS, and visual rating of disease severity for estimation of mycotoxin concentrations. Insignificant variation was observed between duplicate evaluations of DON and FUM by ELISA, showing the high repeatability of this method. DON and FUM determinations by ELISA were more closely correlated with mycotoxin concentrations predicted through NIRS than with visual rating of disease severity. For the prediction of DON, NIRS had very high magnitude of the coefficients of determination of calibration and cross validation (R 2 = 0.900.88). Thus, NIRS has a promising potential to predict DON concentration in grain samples of inoculated maize genotypes evaluated in resistance breeding programs.
90003457|Soil is an important natural resource which along with water, air and organisms forms an ecosystem. Under the influence of multiple pedogenesis factors and processes, it comes up to a large number of pedosystematic units. Soil is a nonrenewable natural resource and is used with aspects of its environmental and technical functions. Development of technology, industry and the continuous increase in the number of the population just puts more pressure onto soil. Processes can be divided into 4 basic groups: biological contamination - chemical contamination - anthropogenic degradation - physical destruction (pedocide).We want to especially point out that some soils formed in natural conditions are formed with the already weakened resistance, respectively under certain stresses. These may include the following characteristics: excessive soil acidity, small humus content, unstable soil structure, long stagnation of water, small adsorption capacity, radioactivity, etc. In anthropogenic conditions, particularly as a result of development of different technologies and application of mineral fertilizers, pesticides and other chemicals, there may come to a biological and chemical contamination. In this area, especially in recent years, there has been a phenomenon of different bacterial, viral and parasitic soil diseases. Investigations are conducted on land areas in the urban zone, and on the cultivable areas near highways.
90002854|The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effects of different tillage methods, under rainfed conditions in eastern Hungary, on soil water and nitrate-N content and to simulate the dynamics of the soil water and nitrogen regime over the 2003-2006 crop season. There were not considerable differences between measured and predicted soil water content in 2005. Predicted SWC by the 4M model was usually close to the observed data. For SP tillage system in 2004, the model predicted approximately 15% higher SWC than the observed values, whereas the measured values in WP and DT were underestimated by 11-12%. The best fit between simulated and experimental data was observed for WP treatment with an average difference of 3%. Possible reason for poor simulation results could be because the model uses only bulk density, LOL, DUL and drainage coefficient as a tillage specific input parameter and does not consider the seasonal changes in soil macroporosity. Simulated NO
23789883|Producing forage maize (Zea mays L.) in twin-row planting pattern has been attempted in past years. This research was performed to determine effects of planting patterns and densities on yields of forage maize hybrids. We also examined other plant characteristics associated with forage yield under second crop conditions in Hatay, East Mediterranean region of Turkey, during 2003 and 2004. The experimental design was a randomized complete block design in a split-split-plot arrangement with three replications. The planting patterns of twin row (55:20 cm), conventional row (75 cm) and narrow row (50 cm) were main plots, the plant densities (80,000, 100,000 and 120,000 plants ha1) were split-plots, and the hybrids (PR-1550, MAVERIK and DK-585) were split-split plots. Forage and dry matter yields were significantly affected by planting patterns, plant densities and maize hybrids. Our results revealed the advantage of twin-row planting pattern over conventional and narrow row plantings at all plant densities. Twin row planting out-yielded conventional row (16% more forage and 10.2% more dry matter yield) and narrow-row (7.9% more forage and 5.9% more dry matter yield) plantings. Twin-row planting pattern may be a profitable production technique for forage maize producers.
90003116|The main goal of this paper is to determine the short-term (3-years period, from 2002 through 2004) effect of different land use changes (grazing exclusion, fertilization and irrigation) on the carbon and nitrogen content of above- and below-ground biomass, and different soil layers, as well as to provide data for model development. The C content of the biomass changed to a small extent independently from the land use type. Shoot and root N content of the grazing excluded and irrigated stands have exceeded the control values. Soil total C content of all plots significantly increased, while Soil total N content decreased in all loess stands but significantly increased in sandy areas during the studied period.
90002693|Data on the composition of fodder from pastures (grass, meadow-hay) can be frequently found in literature, but data on the element contents of the grass or non-grass species composing natural grasslands are scarce. In order to analyse the element contents of plants, samples were collected over 3 years (1998-2000) from different types of natural grasslands. On non-fertilised grasslands, the dominant species was
23782770|Four cycles of modified ear-to-row selection for grain yield had been completed in the composite variety Giza 2. The family selection was based on the average performance in two replications. Whereas, the selection of individuals within selected families based upon phenotypic performance in a natural isolated crossing block. The realized gain was 7.52% per cycle and the expected one was 4.38% of the base population per cycle. The linear regression of yield on generations of selection was significant and reached 12.82% of average improvement per cycle compared to the original population. Sufficient genotypic coefficients of variability were obtained in cycle 2 and cycle 3, and increased in cycle 4. Likewise, phenotypic coefficient of variability was high in the base population (36.24%), decreased to 10.66% in cycle 3 and increased again in cycle 4 (19.17%). Heritability estimates reflected the flucutations obtained in genetic variability. Ear-to-row selection for grain yield did not affect number of rows per ears, ear length and plant and ear height.
23789897|In the natural populations of common wheat landrace Kaixianluohanmai, there was a phKL gene which promotes homoeologous pairing of wheat-alien hybrids. In the present study, the effects of phKL gene on crossability and homoeologous pairing of Triticum aestivum x Psathyrostachys huashanica Keng ex Kuo hybrids were comparatively analyzed. The crossability of the hybrid between Sichuan wheat landrace Kaixianluohanmai and P. huashanica was highest in all the hybrid combinations with 3.18%. The hybrids T. aestivum (Kaixianluohanmai) x P. huashanica showed a pairing configuration of 21.70 univalents + 2.68 rod bivalents + 0.34 ring bivalents + 0.06 trivalents + 0.02 quadrivalents and 3.54 chiasma per PMC at MI. However, the chiasma in hybrids of CS, CSph1b, CSph2a and CSph2b with P. huashanica was 0.56, 1.90, 0.87 and 0.60, respectively. Compared with the hybrids of CS, CSph1b, CSph2a and CSph2b with P. huashanica, a significant increase in the chiasma of homoeologous pairing was observed in the hybrids of T. aestivum (Kaixianluohanmai) x P. huashanica. The effects were shown in the increment of rod bivalents, ring bivalents and trivalents and reduction of univalents. The results indicated that phKL showed a higher effect on promoting homoeologous pairing than ph1 and ph2 in T. aestivum x P. huashanica. The wheat landrace Kaixianluohanmai with phKL gene is probably a more desirable material for alien gene transferring than Ph2-deficiency lines.
23779108|In maize experiments, differences in the regression of yield on dry matter content from one environment to the other are frequently observed. Such differences in regression inflate genotype-environment interaction. By analyzing a series of experiments comprising of 25 experimental hybrids tested over 24 environments (four years and six places), it was shown that maturity corrected yield (MCY) may be helpful for plant breeding research, especially if very different regressions are involved.
23788185|Stomatal density (SD) and stomatal index (SI) on the abaxial flag leaf epidermis, gas exchange of flag leaves and yield of six wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars differing in drought resistance were studied in plant growth chamber. There were significant differences among cultivars in SD, SI, epidermal cell density (ED), photosynthetic rate (Pn), transpiration rate (E), instantaneous transpiration efficiency (ITE), shoot dry weight yield (Ys), grain yield (Yd) and whole growth season water use efficiency (WUE), but not in stomatal conductance (gs). Wheat cultivars with moderate drought resistance had higher Pn and Yd than cultivars with strong or weak drought resistance. SD was negatively correlated with ITE (r=-0.85) and WUE (r=-0.84), but not with Pn, E and Yd. There were significant relationships between ED and Yd (r=-0.92), between SI and Pn (r=0.84). These results revealed that breeding wheat cultivar only to raise drought resistance might cause yield decrease when water stress was not too severe. Wheat cultivars with lower SD might improve ITE and WUE, but Pn and yield (Ys and Yd) were not influenced significantly. Greater ED was not beneficial to Yd. SI might be a criterion to use in selecting parents for producing high-yielding wheat cultivars.
90002744|The effects of genetic modification on the decomposition process of corn residues were investigated under field conditions. Using litter-bag method the decomposition of different residues - leaf and root tissues of transgenic
23781323|Twelve promosing dwarf rice strains both of medium and early maturing groups were evaluated for stability with respect to grain yield in twelve environments during 1975 and 1976. The variances due to genotypes, environment and genotype-environment interactions were significant indicating the presence of genotypic differences between the genotypes and also presence of genotype-environment interactions. The remainder was non-significant and linear component appeared to be accounted for all the interactions present revealing thereby that the mean performance of varieties could be predicated across the environments. Genotypes Jaya and IR8 were found to be most promising and stable. The use of these genotypes for future breeding programmes has been suggested.
23787146|Maize (Zea mays L.) kernel infection by Aspergillus flavus and infestation by maize weevil (Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky) remain problems in maize production and storage. This study was undertaken to evaluate 61 exotic x adapted breeding crosses obtained from the Germplasm Enhancement of Maize (GEM) project for A. flavus kernel infection rates (KIR), resistance to maize weevil damage (MWR), and ear moisture loss rate (EMLR) in 1995 and 1996, and to investigate interrelationship among them via correlation and path analyses. Highly significant correlations among the three traits were detected. A direct path effect of MWR on KIR was 0.261 (P=phenotypic) and 0.42 (G=genotypic). The direct effect of KIR on MWR was 0.276 (P) and 0.623 (G). This suggested KIR would decrease when selection is practiced for higher levels of resistance to maize weevil feeding, and vice versa. Direct path coefficient for the EMLR effect on KIR was positive at both P (0.233) and G (0.50) levels. The direct effects of KIR on EMLR were 0.25 (P) and 0.67 (G). The positive association between KIR and EMLR would be unfavorable for simultaneous selection of both traits in the desired direction. The correlation and path analyses for KIR, MWR, and EMLR provided useful information about the traits, which could be used in simultaneous selection to maximize selection gains. The KIR and MWR appeared to be the traits that could be handled in a single breeding program. From an efficiency standpoint, improvement of EMLR should be handled in a separate breeding program.
90002821|The morphological variability of the genetic resources of poppy (
23781499|C-banding and Feulgen has been used to study the meiotic pairing in PMCs of monosomic plants of the progeny of the cross mono-3B 'chinese Spring' x 'Aragn 03'. Meiotic observations have been also carried out in monosomics of the first backcross using 'Aragn 03' as recurrent, and in monotelosomics of (mono-3B 'Chinese Spring' x 'Aragn 03'2) x ditelosonic 3Bl 'Chinese Spring'. 15 chromosomes of wheat have been individually characterizated by their distinctive distribution of heterochromatic regions. Differences in the meiotic pairing of distinctive pairs were detected. The value of C-banding for detecting univalent shift during the backcrossing program of monosomic conversion is also discussed.
23783666|Effects of the Fusarium mycotoxins, DON(deoxynivalenol), NIV(nivalenol) and the culture filtrate of Fusarium graminearum, on tissues were studied in 7 Japanese wheat cultivars. DON seriously inhibited root growth at germination. NIV and culture filtrate at the concentration used had no inhibitory effects on wheat tissues. DON may be used as a phytotoxin for wheat scab resistant cells in cell cultures.
90002721|During two-year studies on two different soil types (Mollic Gleysols, Calcaric Fluvisols) in 4 repetitions and 4 different variants, as follows: 1. untreated seed; 2. Dithane S- fungicide treated seed (60% Mancozeb, 800 g 100 kg
90002679|The tolerance of three Martonvsr maize hybrids to herbicides applied post-emergence was tested in 2006 and 2007. In treatments given twice the normal dose, visible phytotoxic damage did not exceed 20% in 2006, while it was less than 15% in 2007. The herbicide treatments caused changes in the protein and starch content but had no modifying effect on the oil content. Extreme weather conditions aggravated the effect on quality.
90003049|Environmental hazards of intensive agriculture have renewed an interest in the low-input nitrogen (N) fertilization practices for wheat (
23785402|We searched the highest level of infestation of wheat by F. graminearum in plots where the highest level of K+ and the lowest level of NO3 has been supplied. The concentration of ZEN was the highest 5,70 g/g1 in plants which grew in plots were the highest NO3 was supply and the smallest one (0,45 g/g1)in plots were the highest K+ was supply.
90002818|The factual data of the organization carrying out plant growing activities on the Debrecen loess ridge are presented in this paper. The company uses 650 hectares and its main profile is plant growing. 100 hectares were used for maize production purposes both in 2006 and 2007. The average gold crown value (measurement unit of the quality of arable land in Hungary) is 43,2. The amount of fertilizer to be used was calculated by the
23792365|Using bioinformatic data, we found that maize homologues of the Arabidopsis single subunit RING type ubiquitin ligase genes, COP1 (Constitutive Photomorphogenesis 1) and SINAT5 (Seven in Absentia in Arabidopsis thaliana 5) have been frequently predicted during large-scale cDNA sequencing project and released to databases since 2008. Despite this general information, no tissue specific expression profiles of these genes were published to our knowledge so far. In the present research, the expression and the relative levels of COP1 and SINAT5 transcripts were detected using reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with template materials collected separately from three different organs (root, leaf and seed) of maize plants grown under the normal growth conditions. The results not only confirmed the presence of COP1 transcript in all three test samples but also revealed its abundance in root tissues that may be consistent to its large number of targets for ubiquitination in darkness. Analysis of SINAT5 expression profile revealed a detectable band in leaf tissue sample that may be related to its specific roles in this organ.
90002733|Nematodes are widely distributed in soil and influenced directly by environmental and anthropogenic factors. The objectives of this study were to determine the population fluctuation of five trophic groups for two vegetation periods (2005 and 2006) and to observe the differences between the same trophic groups compared by month between the years. Soil samples were taken twice in soybean vegetative growth stage and once in reproductive growth stage on 7 cultivars. Total of 39 nematode gena were identified. The most dominant genus in trophic groups were:
23778597|The study was conducted to determine the effects of height genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) on grain yield and its components under various cultural treatments. The grain yield and grain yield components of a 2 row cultivar, Compana and its short isogenic, Erectoides Compana and a 6 row cultivar, Titan and short isogenics, Titan Belonee and Titan Beebee under N fertilization, irrigation, and row spacing treatments were compared. A 50% increase in yield was obtained from N fertilization. Irrigation increased yield by 18%. The 15 and 30 cm row spacing produced similar yields. Short isogenics were similar to their normal lines in N response. Yield increase from irrigation was more in short isogenics than their normal lines. Number of spikes per unit area were greater under N fertilization. irrigation, and 15 cm row spacing. Grain number per spike increased under N fertilization and 30 cm row spacing, but remained unchanged by irrigation. The average grain weight was not affected by N, irrigation, or row spacing. The isogenics did not differ among themselves in their response to N, irrigation or row spacing for spike number. The isogenics also responded alike to irrigation for grain number character. The grain number remained unchanged in Erectoides Compana and Titan Belonee, but it increased significantly in Compana, Titan, and Titan Beebee in response to N fertilization. Grain number Per spike was significantly greater in 30 cm row spacing for all lines except Erectoides Compana. The results indicate that the use of well adapted short barley cultivars will not reduce returns from investments in N fertilization and irrigation. In addition, the risk of loss from lodging would be reduced by changing from tall to shorter cultivars. Numerous experimental findings relating to the response of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) to various cultural treatments are reported in literature (1, 2, 5). However, information pertaining to the effects of variation in height on such responses are scarce. This study determines the extent plant height affects responses of barley to N fertilization, irrigation, and row width. Height isogenics were used which permitted the determination of specific influence of plant height within a common genetic background.
23784251|"In-vivo" leaf Nitrates Reductase Activity (NRA) and water potential ( w )of wheat, were measured in water stressed plants, grown in greenhouse and during recovery after resumption of watering. Although during the stress period w values were as low as 1.6 to 2.7 MPa, NRA activity was completely restablished 24 hours after rewatering, whenever w values had also recovered and were similar to controls. These results demonstrate the great capacity of NRA to recover from severe water stress situations.
90002627|All ecosystems in the world are based on life cycles manifested in soil-plant interrelations. Plant life is determined by soil conditions and processes, however soil is also much influenced by plants. Soil-plant interrelations cover a wide range of bottom-up as well as top-down systems that may be synergistic, antagonistic, or coexistent. This paper summarizes principles of plant and soil interrelations; the processes and magnitude of some mutual impacts.
23790052|Sixty-seven cultivars and advanced breeding lines from three major Indian wheat-producing zones were used to investigate the presence of 1RS.1BL translocation and high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS), and to determine their effect on bread loaf volume and yield. The frequency of 1RS.1BL translocation was detected in 50.7% of the genotypes. Three, five and two allelic variations were observed at Glu-A1, Glu-B1, Glu-D1, respectively. The genotypes with 1RS.1BL translocation were significantly high in grain yield and bread loaf volume than genotypes without 1RS.1BL translocation. The majority of genotypes (76.4%) possessing 1RS.1BL translocation had HMW-GS 5+10. It was concluded that the deleterious effect of rye translocation can be compensated by desirable HMW-GS at Glu-D1 locus.
23786188|Prolamin patterns have been investigated in two common wheat cultivars: Novosibirskaya 67 (N67) and Diamant 1 (Dm1), which possess contrasting indices of grain, dough, and bread quality; Dm1/N67 substitution lines for chromosomes 1A, 1B, and 1D; and nullisomic (2n=40) plants of the low-quality recipient cultivar Dm1. The patterns of high-molecular-weight (HMW) and low-molecular-weight (LMW) glutenin subunits (GSs) permit one to determine the alleles for these subunits in the cultivars and substitution lines (SLs), and the chromosomal locations of their genes. An HMW albumin seemingly related to glutenin has been detected in N67. It has been found that this albumin is either encoded by a gene of chromosome 1B or has an affinity to a protein related to this chromosome. The rheological properties of dough and bread quality have been examined in the cultivars and SLs. The good dough extensibility and baking quality of N67 are appreciably determined by the presence of the a allele of the Glu-A1 locus and the f allele of the Glu-A3 locus, whereas the poor properties of Dm1 are related to the c (null) allele of the Glu-A1 locus and the e (null) allele of the Glu-A3 locus. Analysis of incompletely reduced storage proteins has given an insight in protein folding within gluten. The rheological properties of the cultivars and SLs are discussed in the context of the properties of the investigated prolamins. Limitations of the chromosome engineering method have been revealed with regard to bread-making quality (BMQ).
23783743|More than 3,000 androgenetic haploid lines were produced from different cross combinations and varieties. 17 selected doubled haploid (DH) lines were evaluated in yield nurseries in two locations. 3 out of 17 lines were significantly (7.7-15.1%) superior to the two standard cultivars. It was established that among the doubled haploid lines very high yielders can be found which are comparable to the advanced lines produced in conventional ways. Doubled haploid analogues of semidwarf mutants and dwarf lines were also produced for fixing the mutant genes. Advances achieved in methodology of the production of doubled haploids render it feasible to integrate the androgenesis in a traditional procedure of wheat improvement. On the basis of our results selected F3-F4 lines are suggested to be included in the androgenetic haploid production. Success was achieved in production of haploid cultures containing morphogenic and fine fractions suitable for plant regeneration and protoplast isolation as well. Fine haploid suspension cultures can be used further for cell manipulation. A unique method for hybrid seed production has been worked out. In the system the parental lines can be blended and partially male sterile, self sterile lines can also be used as parents.
23780401|The in vivo synthesis and transport of -amylase has been followed in germinating seeds of Hordeum vulgare, cv. Nordal. The use of a monospecific antibody preparation towards the II-isozyme group of -amylase, known to be synthesised exclusively during germination, showed that the transport of the enzyme occurs primarily in a broad front away from the scutellar epithelium. At a later stage (after 3 days at 15C) the aleurone layer starts production of -amylase which then moves out of the aleurone and into the starchy endosperm. These observations of the in vivo synthesis and transport of the -amylase protein moiety are discussed in relation to earlier morphological and amylase activity measurements during germination and early seedling growth of cereal seeds.
90003366|The National Long-Term Field Fertilization Trials, which form a unique network in Hungary, were set up in 1967. They were established with uniform NPK fertilization treatments at different agro-ecological regions of the country. Cumulative yield differences from two sites, Iregszemcse (IR) with calcaric chernozem soil type and Bicsrd (BI) with chernozem brown forest soil affected by nutrient stress (deficiency or surplus) will be presented. In the wheat-maize-maize-wheat rotation, the long-term effect of the applied 20 fertilization treatments (0, N, NP, NK, NPK) was studied in 8 rotation cycles. The stress effect caused by nutrient deficiency was considerable first of all in the unfertilized plots (a yield decrease of 36.8-39.5% and 14.6-31.7% compared to the average with wheat and maize, respectively), while unbalanced nutrient supply effected a marked nutrient stress through nutrient surplus. Wheat responded to the accumulating P-deficiency more markedly, while maize was more remarkably affected by nutrient stress caused by K-deficiency.
23782895|The influence of secondary effects of opaque-2 mutation in generative and vegetative parts of plant on kernel dry matter accumulation was evaluated in opaque-2 inbreds. The extent of influence of this effect on grain weight depends on genotypic background and varied among inbreds analyzed. The negative effect of lower N-sink potential of mutants on kernel dry matter accumulation was decreased or abolished in the modified opaque-2 kernels. Two inbreds (W64A and 0h43) differ evidently in interaction of opaque-2 mutation with vegetative characteristics and in composition of protein fraction of mutant endosperm.
90002798|The purpose of the study was to determine the influence of crop rotation, N fertilization and year on wheat grain yield and grain protein content (GPC) at the Experimental Field of the Institute of Field and Vegetable Crops in Novi Sad. Wheat yield varied across crop rotations, investigated years and applied N. Significantly higher yield for the investigated period was found at WSMf whereas WMuf was significantly lower compared to other treatments. GPC differed significantly between copping years (9,73-13.66%) and crop rotations (11.72-13.20%). Grain yield and GPC were inversely but not significantly correlated (r = -0,08). Although WWf had higher GPC (13.20 %) it can not be recommended to farmers due to permanent risk of production failure and somewhat lower yield.
23779104|The dominant gene /s/ for adult-plant resistance to leaf rust in Chinese Spring wheat was located on chromosome 7D by monosomic analysis of the F1 using Chinese Spring monosomic series crossed to the susceptible dwarf line Tom Thumb 5-8. The infection type of the monosomic 7D F1 was recorded as fully susceptible /reaction type 4/ and that of the remaining monosomic and disomic lines as resistant /reaction type 0; to 1+/.
90002756|Peas are widely grown for hay, pasturage or silage production either or mixed with cereals. As a forage crop, pea hay and seed is rich in crude protein content, and most mineral elements. Due to their high nutritive value, peas are an important feed grain legume for animal production operations in the Croatia, where they are an alternative source of crude protein for soybeans. Four forage type pea lines were evaluated for 2 years for dry matter and crude protein yield under rainfed conditions in northwest Croatia. All the lines used in this study were forage type with inteterminate growing habit. Under humid conditions and cool temperatures in early spring, high forage production was obseved in all the lines. Significant differences in dry matter and crude protein yield were found among the lines.
90002645|The effect of different N, P and K supply levels (low, satisfactory, high, extreme high) and their combinations were examined in the 31
23783779|The Russian wheat aphid (RWA) is an important pest on wheat and barley in several areas of the world. It would be desirable to have an indirect screening test for resistance when aphids are not available. Three wheat genotypes, one susceptible Carson and two resistant, CORWA1 and PI294994, to the Russian wheat aphid, were used to test their in vitro responses to aphid extracts. Etiolated seedlings at single leaf stage about 10 to 15 cm tall were cut into 1.5 to 2 cm long segments. The segments just above the coleoptile were incubated in crude RWA extract or buffer. The degree of unrolling of the leaf segments was scored. Significant differences existed in unrolling between the leaf segments incubated in buffer only and buffer plus RWA extract. There were also significant differences between the susceptible genotype and the two resistant ones. No significant difference was detected between the two resistant genotypes in leaf unrolling. This Laboratory leaf unrolling test shows promise for genotype selection and needs further testing.
23781410|A six-parental diallel cross including reciprocal was completed, and F1 hybrids and their durum wheat parents were used for the freezing test under controlled conditions. The general combining ability /GCA/ was highly significant. No significant specific combining ability /SCA/ was found. The high GCA:SCA ratio revealed a preponderance of additive genetic variance in the inheritance of frost resistance in durum wheat. No significant general reciprocal effect /GRE/ was obtained between the reciprocal crosses in this set of durum wheat varieties.
23786244|The objective of this work was to identify and quantify the free amino acids in the anther of the hybrid maize H-34 and the traditional cultivar Zac.58-VO during microsporogenesis. Anthers were studied in three stages of their development: (I) differentiation, (II) mid-uninucleate meiotic stage, and (III) at anthesis of plants growing in the field. Amino acids were chemically modified with o-phthaldialdehyde and quantified by HPLC. Anthers of the traditional cv. Zac.58-VO had a low concentration of free amino acids, especially at stage I. This cultivar reached the highest amino acid concentration at stage II (2 502 nmols/100 mg of fresh tissue) with alanine, asparagine and glutamate occurring as the most abundant amino acids (70 % of the total). In contrast, the amino acid content in the anthers of the hybrid H-34 dramatically increased with anther development, from 1 278 nmols/100 mg in stage I to 5 799 in the stage III. Among the 18 amino acids identified some of the most abundant were aspartate, glutamate, asparagine and glutamine, and -aminobutyric acid was found only in this cultivar (H-34). In both cultivars, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, phenylalanine and valine presented high positive correlation with other amino acids. In the hybrid, another nine amino acids increased to 105 the total number of significant correlations between pairs of amino acids, in contrast with only 35 in the traditional cultivar. The results support the hypothesis that the content of amino acids in the anthers of maize varies with the stage of anther development and with the cultivar.
90003044|The corn rootworm, which has been introduced from North America, is becoming an increasingly serious problem for maize producers in Hungary. Control of the pest is complicated by the fact that farmers often ignore the need for crop rotation, the most effective measure, despite ministry regulations. Chemical control not only increases production costs, but is not always effective. The present paper describes studies on the tolerance level of 60 Martonvsr hybrids at four locations. Significant differences were found in the tolerance levels of the hybrids, and a close positive correlation was revealed between root-pull resistance and yield, while there was a close negative correlation between root lodging and yield and between root-pull resistance and lodging. Root regeneration is also an important factor, good values of which were found for three hybrids.
23789798|Genetically diverse wheat genotypes comprising salt tolerant (V1 and V2), salt and water deficiency tolerant (V3, V4 and V5) and salt sensitive (V6) were subjected to various salinity levels. The objective was to see whether ion selectivity amenable to ion regulation and ion discrimination exist simultaneously in one genotype and how do they interact when subjected to various salinity levels. Plants were grown under salinity till the emergence of flag leaf. Analysis for Cl, Na+, K+ and of K+/Na+ ratio indicated higher concentration of K+ compared to Na+ and Cl in water deficiency tolerant group suggesting reduced uptake of both ions. In V1 and V2, concentration of Na+ and Cl were also low. Discrimination for K+-Na+ in V2, V3 and V4 was manyfolds higher than the parent V1 possibly due to differential transfer to this material, of various alleles native to Ae. cylindrica. V6 lacked ion selectivity capable of efficient K+Na+ discrimination. Hence both K+ concentration and K+/Na+ ratio were the lowest making V6 a salt sensitive cultivar. The study revealed difference in type and level of salt tolerance in various genotypes, which indicated new ways of enhancing salt tolerance in commercial wheat varieties.
23785308|Yielding ability in wheat can be increased by breeding genotypes that make better use of heterosis. A full diallel cross was made with five genetically diverse red winter wheats to determine the expression of heterosis, and specific combining ability (SCA) effects. Very low or negative levels of heterosis were expressed for yield and characteristics significantly correlated with yield. This was probably due to unsuitable environmental conditions for the expression of heterosis. This reaffirmed that the expression of heterosis should be tested over a number of seasons and environments. Average SCA effects were negative or low for measured characteristics, and did not seem to be related to the expression of heterosis.
90003364|The aim of our investigation was to study the interaction between crops and and
23784292|Wheat DNA probes were used successfully to detect restriction fragment length polymorphisms in oats. polymorphism was found even among closely related varieties indicating that RFLPs may have utility for oat varietal identification purposes, as well as in design of crossing programmes.
23789917|Data evaluating the growth promoting effects of Azospirillum on wheat seedlings according to the inoculum level/root colonization effectiveness (number of bacterial cells), is scarce. Uniform 1-cm size, 72-h old wheat seedlings grown in the dark at 22 C were inoculated with: i) 103, 105, 107 and 108 A. brasilense cells per T. aestivum cv. ProINTA Federal seedling; ii) 102, 105 and 108 A. brasilense cells per T. durum cv. Buck Topacio seedling; iii) 106 heat killed bacteria (HKB) cells per cultivar seedling; iv) phosphate buffer pH 6.8 (NI) as control seedlings for both cultivars. Afterwards, seedling growth proceeded in water in the dark at 22 C for another 48 h. Alive or dead Azospirillum cells were suspended in phosphate buffer pH 6.8. Root and shoot growth were determined measuring the length and projected area of their digitalized images. When treated with inocula concentrations ranging from 102 to 105 cells per seedling, both Triticum species reached a maximum level of colonization harboring 106 to 107 cells per seedling. No differences could be detected between NI and HKB treated seedlings for both Triticum species. Triticum aestivum cv. ProINTA Federal seedlings reached the maximum growth promotion when roots were colonized with a number of bacterial cells ranging from 5  106 to 1.5  108 per seedling. Triticum durum cv. Buck Topacio seedlings showed maximum growth promotion when 3.3  107 cells were present in their roots. Higher values of colonization showed no growth promoting effects with respect to the controls. It may be concluded that in these experimental conditions the optimum inoculum concentration is 5  105 cells per seedling for both T. aestivum cv. ProINTA Federal and T. durum cv. Buck Topacio.
90002671|The objective of this paper was to determine the biomass production of three rapeseed cultivars -Alaska, Bristol and Eurol - in a three-year period. Stand was determined for each cultivar, as well as whole plant mass and height, number of branches and stem mass for the purpose of determining the biomass production per each cultivar. In order to determine to which extent it is possible for rapeseed biomass to replace oil, calorimeter was used to measure heating values. Furthermore, ash, volatile and combustible matter, C-fix, sulphur (combustible and bound) as well as volatile components were determined.
23790022|The introgressed alien chromosome in BC10F5 progeny of the cross between common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and Agropyron elongatum (Host) (2n=7X=70) [syn. Thinopyrum ponticum (Popd.) Barkworth & D.R. Dewey] was determined by genomic in situ hybridization (GISH), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), using genomic DNA from A. elongatum as a probe in GISH and repeat sequence pAs1, pSc119.2 as probes in FISH, and molecular marker techniques. The results revealed that the line was a chromosome additional line in which a pair of the chromosomes added was composed of chromosome segment from E-genome of A. elongatum and short arm of 5B of common wheat cultivar Gao 38 identified by E-genome-specific primers. Powdery mildew test showed the line was highly resistant to powdery mildew as its A. elongatum parent and this indicated that the gene of resistant to powdery mildew might come from A. elongatum and localized on E-genome.
23786964|To locate QTLs controlling adaptation, wheat substitution lines of Cheyenne (Donor) into the genetic background of Chinese Spring (Recipient) were tested in a randomized completely block design with three replications under rainfed and irrigated conditions across two years. AMMI analysis showed a highly significant genotype x environment interaction indicating large variation among substitution lines and possible localization of QTLs controlling adaptation. The first and second IPCA were highly significant and covered 69% and 29% of the G x E interaction SS, respectively. According to the IPCA1 and IPCA2, QTLs controlling phenotypic stability were located on chromosomes 4A and 5A in the A genome, 4B in the B genome and 2D and 7D in the D genome. Biplot of IPC1 and mean grain yield revealed that QTLs responsible for general adaptability (rainfed and irrigated conditions) are located on chromosome 4B with above average grain yield. G x E biplot between IPC1 and IPC2 exhibited that chromosomes 3A, 4A, 3D and 7D carry the genes monitoring specific adaptability for rainfed condition, while the QTLs controlling specific adaptation for irrigated condition are located on chromosome 1A, 3B, 1D, and 7D.
23783955|This work was concentrated in the analysis of the PEG (polyethylene glycol) mediated genetic transformation method for rice protoplast. The optimisation of the transformation efficiency was made by the analysis of the transient expression of the gusA gene in protoplasts, the method of analysis chosen was the fluorometric assay. The protoplasts were isolated from cell suspensions of rice. In this work a technical improvement was achieved by optimising the transformation rates for rice protoplast transformation with the PEG method. Some parameters as gradual dilution, amount of plasmid DNA, PEG concentration, and protoplast density proved to be very important for the PEG-mediated transformation efficiency.
23786776|Two hundred and fifty landrace genotypes of durum wheat, were collected from nine districts in Jordan and analysed to ascertain the amount of variation for 13 traits. High variability was displayed by the 13 traits in the landrace genotypes. High significant correlation coefficient ( r = 0.71, P<0.001) were found between the 1000 kernel weight and the kernel weight in the main head and between fertile tillers and seed number and weight per plant (r = 0.93 & 0.89, respectively, P < 0.001). Four principle components explained 70% of the total variation in the 13 traits. The first component that counted for 25.23% of the total variability includes with high loading; spike number, total tiller, fertile tiller, and 1000 seed weight. The second component that accounted for 18.16% of the total variability includes spike number, seed number/main, seed weight/main, and seed weight/plant. The third component that accounted for 16.69% of total variability has the following traits; plant height, peduncle length, upper node and spike number. The fourth component that accounted for 11.23% of the total variability has awn length, spikes length, spike number. Multivariate analysis by region revealed marked regional patterns and indicated that regions that have similar geographical and climatic similarity exhibit the same distribution pattern. These results suggested that Jordanian landraces are rich sources of genetic variation and therefore, it could be used in the reconstruction of a gene pool of germplasm for durum wheat improvement.
23787207|Induced gene mutation has been used for the improvement of many crops, including wheat. Earliness is a valuable character agronomically, particularly in regions where temperatures rise during grain filling, and is readily induced. Gamma radiation was used to induce early maturity in a salt-tolerant late-maturing bread wheat genotype KTDH 19. Selection in early generations was for earliness, and in M5 for high grain yield at 150 mol m3 NaCl. Assessments were made of leaf sodium content, K+/Na+ ratio at anthesis, and genetic parameters. Days to heading and yield had the highest heritabilities under both saline and nonsaline conditions. The M5 generation showed significant positive correlations between yield and K+/Na+ ratio, and between days to heading and sodium content. There were significant negative correlations of days to heading with yield and K+/Na+ ratio, and between yield and sodium content. Of 62 early-heading M5 genotypes, 10 had significantly lower leaf Na+ contents than the parents. Three which also had significantly higher grain yields were selected for multiplication and further study. These lines were approximately three weeks earlier in maturity: one had awns, unlike the parent, important for protection against bird damage. Results are discussed in terms of the potential of the material for salt-affected irrigated areas of Pakistan and India.
23786793|Comparison was made between random bulk and individual plant selection for grain yield and its contributing characters on the basis of performance of progenies derived from F2 plants under different groups. It was found that the progenies under both the methods produced yield, statistically at par, however higher estimates for component characters were observed under individual plant selection than that of random bulk in some of the populations. But this trend was not consistent across all the populations. It was concluded that it would be appropriate to advance the generation from F2 to F3 without any selection.
90002778|The effect of weather factors is extremely complex and appears in an interactive, cumulative manner, which could be achieved in the current cropping site and agronomic conditions. Changes in the quality parameters of 7 winter wheat varieties with good bread making characteristics, grown on different regions of Hungary were studied in the 2006/2007 vegetation period. According to our analysis, cropping site affected the quality parameters (wet gluten content, gluten expansiveness, gluten index, alveographical W value). In Tpe we experienced very weak conditions but in Jnoshalma, Somogyszil and Szentistvn crops show relatively good quality values.
23783806|The crossability of two common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) varieties (Martonvsri 9 and Martonvsri 15) and one wheat line, Martonvsri 9 kr1, was assessed with Triticum timopheevi Zhuk. and T. timopheevi Zhuk. ssp. araraticum Jakubz.(further referred to as T. araraticum). Pollinations were carried out in the field and under controlled environmental conditions simultaneously. Higher seed set was obtained in the phytotron than in the field. No significant difference was found in the crossability of the T. timopheevi  T. aestivum and the T. araraticum  T. aestivum combinations. A significant difference in seed set was found between the reciprocal crosses, which indicates the importance of the cytoplasmic effect in these crosses. The highest crossability was achieved for the Martonvsri 9 line possessing the crossability gene kr1. Immature embryos were rescued on the B5 medium. Hybrid plant production efficiency per hybrid seed was 82.02 per cent with the help of embryo culture.
90003221|Fusarium head blight (FHB, scab) is an important disease of wheat and causes severe yield and quality losses and contamination of grains with mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON). The aim of this research was to assess the level resistance in grain yield of a set winter wheat genotypes to FHB and to check the effect of fungicide. Treatment with fungicide can increase the level of grain yield resistance in winter wheat genotypes, while treatment with FHB inoculation can decrease grain yield for more then 20%.
90003302|In Germany, maize is one of the most important agriculture commodities, a major component in animal feed as well as an essential substrate producing biogas. Maize ear rot poses a major impact worldwide as it is caused by several
90002827|Sewage sludge can be a useful fertilizer for the agriculture. It is a potential nutrient source, grades up the soil structure and the water and heat management of the soil. However the utilization of sewage sludge in plant production is limited by the sanitary regulations and the heavy metal content.
90002707|Our paper concentrates on CO
23778587|Parental, F1 and F2 populations of two oat varietal crosses were studied. The F2 segregating populations indicated the presence of enough genetic variability for almost all the traits investigated. High heritability estimates were observed for all the traits studied except for grain yield. Maximum expected genetic progress was noted for flag leaf width and grain yield in cross P1P2 and P1P3, respectively. Significant or highly significant heterosis and heterobeltiosis were observed for plant height,flag leaf width and grain yield in both the crosses.
23784232|In this study the effects of different ovary co-culture methods on sporophytic development of wheat microspores were investigated. Mechanically isolated microspores of greenhouse grown donor plants of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) were co-cultured with wheat or barley ovaries either in agarose rings or in culture plate inserts. The viability of the microspores was better in co-culture with wheat ovaries from one cultivar as compared to co-culture with a mixture of wheat ovaries from four cultivars. Co-culture of the microspores with ovaries in culture plate inserts had no significant effect on viability of the microspores, but had, in comparison with culture in agarose rings, a large positive effect on the percentage swollen microspores. No clear genotype effect could be detected. A significant correlation between the number of swollen microspores and the number of multicellular structures was found.
23789664|The trial for winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) or spring barley (Hordeum vulgaris L.) in rotation with maize (Zea mais L.) on lessive-pseudogley in semiarid to semihumid climate of Eastern Croatia was set up during years 1996-1999 with five soil tillage systems: PL) Conventional tillage based on ploughing; PD) Conventional tillage after diskharrowing for previous crop in preceding season; DP) Diskharrowing after conventional tillage for previous crop in preceding season; DD) Continuous diskharrowing, and CD) Chiselling and diskharrowing. During first and second season (1996/97 and 1997/98), recorded winter wheat grain yields were not different, with PL having the highest and DD the lowest yield. Maize showed next differences in first season: PL=PD>CH=DD=DP, and in second season PD=PL=DP=CH>DD. In 1999, spring barley replaced winter wheat, and yields were: PL>DP>PD>CD>DD. Maize yields recorded were: PL>PD>DP>CH>DD. The grain yield results, together with hectoliter mass and mass of 1000 grains, supported that PL can be replaced with other tillage systems for winter wheat and spring barley, whereas continuous diskharrowing may have substantially lower yields for maize during unfavourable years.
23787251|Septoria tritici blotch reactions in seedling plants in thirty-four winter wheat genotypes originated from the Great Plains of the USA were evaluated. Among them, eight were resistant to septoria tritici blotch, two were moderately resistant, and nine moderately susceptible. The repeatability of septoria tritici blotch assays obtained by partitioning of variance components was very high (94.0  2.0%). Our results suggest that seedling septoria tritici blotch screening provides consistent information on host response, and repeated evaluation may not be necessary to obtain reliable host reaction information.
90002768|A pot experiment was carried out to investigate effect of N fertilizer and biofertilizer on parsley (
23777596|A set of 31 wheat varieties, widely diversified, were grown in 3 experiments each with 10 replications to measure effect of replication, year and location on statistics. Number of replications did not soon to affect the error variance or the coefficient of variability but the standard error and the phenotypic variance were decreased and heritabilities were increased with increasing replications. Four to six replications of plot size 3  .3m should be adequite to test this set or similar sets of wheats. Mean squares of variety  location or variety  year interactions were significant but their magnitudes were similar within each trait. Varieties should be tested at least in two years over two locations to give dependable inferation on their performance.
23787217|Flag leaf senescence was compared among twenty-one durum wheat genotypes grown under semi-arid conditions in the Algerian High-Plateau using numerical image analysis. A significant correlation was found between senescence at the end of the grain filling period and grain yield. Carbon content of the flag leaf at anthesis (CL) also correlated with grain yield. The association between grain yield and carbon isotope discrimination () in flag leaves was not significant. A negative correlation between  and CL revealed that genotypes with high transpiration efficiency (low ) had higher carbon content in the leaves. Results suggest that high flag leaf carbon content at anthesis and low senescence at the end of grain filling are positively associated with grain yield under drought and heat stress.
23781411|Yield and yield attributes were compared in pure line, hybrid and vybrid varieties in Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. The differences within a particular category were not significant for most of the characters, but between category differences were highly significant for all characters except harvest index. Except for 100 grain weight, the vybrids occupied an intermediate position between pure lines and hybrids for all the characters. The Vybrids had superior 100 grain weights. It was concluded that the concept of vybrids represents a viable proposition of breeding near optimum genotypes in sorghum for stress environments.
23786267|The influence of male and female genotypes, the effects of their interactions, the influence of 1D, 3D, 4D and 5B chromosomes and the effects of their interaction were studied in 30 F1 wheat -rye euploid and aneuploid hybrids / 2n =28, 27, A B D R / concerning 7 morphological characters : heading data,common tillering,productive tillering,culm length,last internode length,ear length and spikelet number per ear. F1 hybrids were obtained by crosses between four hexaploid cultivars Triticum aestivum L.2n=42: Chinese Spring /CS/, Mironovka 808 /M 808 /, Zlatka /Zl/, Novostepnyachka / N /,as well as their monosomic lines by 1D, 3D, 4D and 5B chromosomes with two inbred lines Secale cereale L. 2n = 14 :Bulgarian Low Stem Rye /B L S R/ and Lozen 14/ L 14 / The morphological characters of the parental genotypes were as well studied. It was established that the parental genotypes influence all of the studied characters, while the effect of their interaction was observed in 14.3 % of the characters ( ear length). The group of the monosomic hybrids on 3D chromosomes shows an influence different from the other hybrids for 42.9 % of the characters ( heading date, ear length, spikelet number per ear); the hybrids group on 5B chromosome - 71.4 % from the characters ( heading date, common and productive tillering,last internode length,ear length ); the group of the euploid hybrids - 85.7 % of the characters (do not show a difference on culm length ).
90002634|Investigation of green cover as ecological infrastructure on vineyard insect complex was carried out in Jazbina vineyards (a facility of the Faculty of Agriculture). Fauna investigation was carried out by branch beating method during 2006 and 2007. The aim of investigation was to prove a connection between plant structure in green cover and insect structure depending on diet behaviour. Positive influence of green cover on soil structure, nutritive richness of soil and soil moisture regime are known. A negative impact of green cover might be in the insect structure like vector-appearance of phytoplasmas.
23783081|Ear moisture content of two genetically broad-based maize (Zea mays L.) populations was measured with an electronic probe at 12-day intervals (3 dates and 2 dates, respectively for population 1 and population 2) to determine periodic and overall grain moisture loss rate following physiological maturity. Overall grain moisture rate was regressed on harvest grain moisture at the final date to determine whether the rate of moisture reduction was correlated with harvest grain moisture. For population 1, periodic rate 1 (R11) was regressed on grain moisture (probe-reading) at date 2 (M2) and resulted in R11 = 3.65-0.043**M2 equation, and periodic rate 2 (R21) regressed on grain moisture at date 3 (M3) resulted in R21 = 0.67-0.01** M3 equation. The regression of overall rate (Ro1) on mean probe moisture at date 3 is represented by the Ro1 = 1.057 - 0.013 **M3 equation. For population 2, the linear regression of rate 1 (R12) on the probe reading at date 2 gave the equation R12 = 3.98 - 0.06 ** M2. These results indicated that there was a linear decline in rate of grain moisture reduction as harvest grain moisture decreased. Therefore, one can select for low harvest moisture content at harvest time and effect an increase in grain moisture reduction rate.
90003426|Weed beet has a negative effect on the sugar beet crop, especially as concerns competition for nutrients, water and light, which are the factors that significantly influence the yield. Chemical protection features the highest effectiveness on strongly weeded land (more than 1,000 individuals/ha); the application of non-selective herbicides (such as Roundup) during the period of blooming is most effective. The germinating capacity of the weed beet glomeruli exposed to total herbicides was tested. Provable differences in the germinating capacity were identified between the glomeruli exposed to the non-selective herbicides and the glomeruli that were not exposed to the herbicides (correlation to the herbicide application/BBCH phase). The differences in the germinating capacity within one BBCH phase can be explained by the varying size of the glomeruli. The big glomeruli (more than 4 mm) had the highest germinating capacity; there is a direct correlation to a higher content of reserve substances. The significantly different specifications of the morphological signs (shoot length, root length, root form) in weed beets exposed to a total herbicide (in the phase BBCH 65-69), with the consequence of being stressed, prove its significant influence on the growth and development of these plants. A high percentage of seeds (glomeruli) exposed to the herbicide survive even after repeated application of the herbicide (the effect of sclerenchyma pericarp in mature glomeruli) and maintain their high germinating capacity.
23785307|LCM2 and LCM3 were two albino mutants induced from a temperature-sensitive genetic male sterile (TGMS) line 2177s, with the treatment of 300 Gy gamma irradiation. The albino phenotype of two mutants expressed either under high or low temperatures, while normal green leaves developed under low or high temperatures, respectively. Genetic analysis indicated that each mutant was controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene. The albino phenotype was affected by the exogenous application of reduced sugar, such as glucose, sucrose and maltose. After treatment, the albino leaves recovered to be greenish when compared with normal green leaves. The results suggested that two mutants be an ideal system in understanding gene expression regulated by temperature.
90003400|As a result of our three-year-long experiment it was concluded that the daily maximum temperatures should be carefully considered at the sowing of table beet seeds at the beginning of July on fluvial meadow soil, as the days of extremely high temperature (>30C) or the days with temperature over 20C decrease the germination and later the accumulation of colour materials in the beet root.
90002748|
               
90003230|The toxigenic potential of
90002730|
               
23786984|The study of germination capacity of seeds collected in Transcaucasian populations of Aegilops tauschii revealed differential effects of alleles of enzyme-encoding genes on fitness. The practice of regenerating germplasm collections material is also discussed.
90002694|The
23783737|The present paper reports several investigations carried out since 1980 to optimize doubled haploid production in a winter barley breeding programme. First, four H. bulbosum genotypes were selected for their haploid producing abilities and because of their complementary action to each other using a range of winter barley hybrids. Both season and emasculation method affected the success of the H. bulbosum technique. Finally, in vitro androgenesis enables doubled haploids to be obtained from barley genotypes which respond poorly to the H. bulbosum method. Thus, the two techniques can be used parallel to each other to improve doubled haploid production efficiency.
23783863|One variety of barley and one variety of rye were taken to study the effect of gamma-radiation on pollen germination, pollen tube growth and seed set in barley-rye crosses. There was an in pollen germination and pollen tube growth over control at 1 kR dose but it was reduced at higher doses. Hybrid seeds were obtained when barley was taken as the female and rye as the male parent. No seed was formed in the reciprocal cross. Seed set was maximum at 1 kR and it was more than control from 15 kR. Only seeds of the cross Karan  4 (1 kR) x MRSP992 were able to germinate. In these germinated seeds the root growth was arrested after the fourth day of germination and they turned brown. The shoot growth was also very poor and it stopped after a week.
23789663|The field experiment with fertilizer Njival Ca (waste of the Serbian glas factory in Paracin: calcite 98.5% CaCO3; granulation <0.1 mm) was conducted in spring 1998 on the Kragujevac vertisol with the treatments as follows (t ha1 on CaCO3 basis): 0 (the control), 0.8 and 1.6 (every year), 4.0 and 8.0 (at start of the experiment). The trial was conducted in five replicates and in triplicate for wheat-maize-soybean roration. In general, liming considerably influenced on yields of the field crops and single application of the high rates are better choice in comparison with repeated use of the low rates. For example, by yield increases in comparison with the control were as follows (comparison single application of 8 t ha1 and repeated applications of 1.6 t ha1): 29% and 9% (maize), 7% and 3% (wheat), 24% and 9% (soybean), respectively.
90003065|Antioxidant capacity of vegetable species had already evaluated in Hungary. This is the first paper presenting total antioxidant capacity of pepper measured by PHOTOCHEM
90002324|Species-specific PCR assay was used for the identification of Hungarian
23785234|Due to the extremely short growing season at high latitudes, delayed sowing of spring cereals results in marked crop losses. One factor contributing to this may be reduced spikelet and floret set associated with increased daylength. This two-year study (1993-1994) included two oat (Avena sativa L.) cultivars adapted to northern growing conditions and was designed to evaluate the effect of early, mid-late, and late sowing on duration of growth phases and set and abortion of fertile florets and spikelets. Results from this study indicated that sowing time affected formation of yield potential more than its realization. However, changes in temperature and precipitation regimes following delayed sowing masked the possible effects of daylength. Delayed sowing favored growth of yield components at the expense of vegetative structures, but not sufficiently to enable compensation for a shorter growth period. Thus, early and mid-late sowing resulted in the highest grain yields.
23786922|Two winter wheat varieties were grown in growth chambers under controlled environmental conditions at ambient (control) and doubled atmospheric CO2 concentrations (375 and 750 mol mol1). By heading, the plants of both varieties were taller in the doubled CO2 treatment, where among all the vegetal parts the largest increase (3167 %) was observed in the stem weight. The plants had higher aboveground biomass at high CO2 than at the ambient level, and also more spikes were found in both varieties at harvest, due to either increased tiller production with similar heading efficiency to the control, or a more modest rise in the tiller number accompanied by improved heading efficiency resulting in 19 % fewer sterile tillers. As there were no significant changes in the number of grains and the grain weight per spike at elevated CO2, the increase in the yield could only be attributed to the increase in the spike number, though in one variety it remained below the level of significance. Heading started later at elevated CO2, as the plants produced the main spike 1.53.5 days later than in the control. However, the plants of one variety produced the second spike much faster (2.7 days after the main spike, compared to 5.1 in the control) at high CO2, while in the other variety the subsequent spikes appeared in a similar chronological order to the ambient CO2 level. These findings imply that, despite the delaying impact of high CO2 on the heading date, the plants might compensate by the faster production of further spikes, leading to a synchronisation of spike emergence.
90002321|We approximated the influence of global climate change on the energy consumption of maize by a simulation model in Keszthely, referring to the average July weather. The period of 19611990 was considered as the basic run. We quantified the changes of the close past on the basis of the decade between 1997 and 2006. The other 6 scenarios were elaborated on the one hand by downscaling the IPCC (2007) report (A2 and B2), on the other hand by taking into account a more serious weather change. At determining plant and soil characteristics of the individual scenarios we applied the principle of analogy being extensively used in meteorological practice; in this method we selected the values of that year from the observation data series of almost 30 years that were the closest to the year to be simulated. The ratio of latent heat decreased by 4.8% only at doubling CO
23781519|The association between vernalization and photoperiod responses were examined in two pairs of near-isogenic lines of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum). Vernalized and unvernalized material was grown under three photoperiod regimes. The results suggest that there is no evidence to support the view that the processes of vernalization and photoperiod are physiologically interactive in controlling ear-emergence, i.e., prolonged vernalization did not remove the need for subsequent long days and prolonged periods under short days did not remove the requirement for vernalization.
23787215|The occurrence of wheat leaf spot pathogens was monitored in the Czech Republic in 2000 and 2001. The samples were collected from different localities of the Czech Republic. Spectrum of fungal pathogens was determined with microscopic methods. Frequency of the pathogens was different in both years. Pyrenophora tritici-repentis was isolated most often from samples in 2000 while Mycosphaerella graminicola predominated in 2001. Didymella sp. was one of the most important pathogens in 2001. Phaeosphaeria nodorum occurred very often together with P. tritici-repentis in the samples. Ascochyta sp. was represented by comparatively few samples in both years.
23789328|Sixty durum wheat genotypes were analysed for protein (gliadin) polymorphism to find out the existing genetic diversity, and to assess its utility for improvement in grain yield along with quality traits. Six different Gli-B1 alleles were found in land races, rust resistance sources and old released varieties, while two in recently released and advance lines. Most of the recently released varieties and advance lines showed -45/Gli-1 alleles, which is the best type for pasta making quality, remaining showed -42/Gli-1 allele, which are not good for pasta making. It is advisable to select for -45/Gli-1 as a bio-chemical marker in the future breeding programmes. The rust resistance sources do not possess -45/Gli-1 alleles, so these lines can be used as donors to introduce disease resistance in the good quality recently released varieties, which are containing -45/Gli-1 alleles. From hierarchical analysis, it was found that landraces, released varieties and rust resistance sources are genetically distinct. The presence of new -gliadin patterns are interesting in rust resistance sources and need to be investigated for their role in pasta making as well as overall technological quality of durum wheat.
90003188|The objective of this research is to assess Fusarium Head Blight (FHB) impact on winter wheat symptomatic evaluation, yield reduction and deoxynivalenol (DON) accumulation. These parameters are discussed both from the view of susceptible and medium resistant varieties and by application of different fungicide treatment.
23786972|As a result of the treatment with chemical mutagens on several varieties and strains of winter triticale a number of mutants with altered traits compared to control, were obtained. Most dwarf mutants were obtained after the action of N-nitroso-N-methylurea (NMH). Two of them, Tm 1300 and Tm 1303, were crossed with the tall variety Grado with a view to evaluating the effects of gene action determining some traits, such as culm length, ear length, grain number per ear and grain weight per ear. Field experiments including parental forms and their hybrids were carried out in Department of Cereals, IHAR Krakw using the method of randomized blocks, in three replications in the system P1, P2, F1, F2, BC1, BC2. The effects of gene action were estimated using the method of Cavalli (1952) for 3-parameter model and the method of Jinks and Jones (1958), cited by Mather and Jinks (1971) for 6-parameter model. It was found that the inheritance of the studied traits is significantly affected by both additive effects of gene action and epistasis, resulted from interaction of heterozygotic and homozygotic loci. In F1 generation of the studied hybrids the effect of heterosis was estimated in relation to mid parent and also in relation to better parent. In case of culm length the heterosis effect was negative but traits such as number of grains per ear and weight of grains per ear have shown a considerable positive heterosis effect.
23783962|Hordeum spontaneum Koch, the wild progenitor of cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare L) is known to be high in grain protein concentration (GPC). Experiments were conducted to determine its potential usefulness in breeding for increased grain protein concentration and improved nutritional quality of barley grown for human and animal diets. A series of cross and backcross derived lines were obtained from five accessions of H. spontaneum crossed to Australian H. vulgare cv. 'Clipper', using 'Clipper' as the recurrent parent. There were significant effects of level of backcrossing and of H. spontaneum parental source on GPC and on seed weight. However, the mean GPC of 14% in F2 plants (compared to 10% in the 'Clipper' parent), was reduced to a mean of about 12% after only one backcross, although variation was observed. Mean seed weight was generally maintained near the level of the 'Clipper' parent. Further studies were made on lines derived from H. spontaneum line HS-5, grown at two levels of nitrogen, to determine the distribution of protein into hordein, salt soluble, and glutelin components. In most of the 'Clipper' x HS-5 derived lines the fractions were almost identical to those in 'Clipper' itself, an observation that has favorable implications for maintaining the relatively high lysine levels of the cultivated parent in selected lines. Higher nitrogen conditions favored increased GPC, decreased seed size, slightly increased hordein percent in protein, and reduced relative differences in GPC.
23779177|A greenhouse study was made using increasing NH4+N, rates with and without a nitrification inhibitor (NI). A decrease in soil pH was observed in both conditions. As related to initial soil pH ( pH), this decrease in soil was positively correlated to plants dry weight production. A positive correlation was also observed between  pH, total-N and total-P in plants. Total-P and total-N were also positively correlated to each other (a 10:1 N/P ratio was maintained at all levels, for plants without NI, and a higher ratio for plants with NI). Dry weight production was hyperbolically correlated to Nlevels in soils, while Nconcentration related linearly to it. A sequence of events was suggested, as follows: NH4+ uptake caused H+ extrusion by plants, and the pH decreased in the soils. Lower pH increased the H2PO4/HPO4 = ratio, and greater P absorption. Greater N and Pabsorption increased plant dry weight.
23782998|More information on early root growth in winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em Thell) is needed. A study was conducted to compare root volume and root dry weight of five cultivars grown hydroponically. Root volume was determined by water displacement and root dry weight was measured on excised roots dried at 70C for 48 hours. Cultivars were significantly different (at the 1% level) in volume and dry weight with 'Turkey' a comparatively low grain yielder being lower in both. The root chamber we constructed for the study was effective in measuring root volume of wheat seedlings. Differences among plantings in the study suggest root volume and dry weight change considerably in just 4-8 h of growth.
90002992|Four domestic winter wheat varieties (
90002702|The effect of spatial variability of soil hydraulic properties on spatial differences in soil water regime was evaluated for six different sites of two floodplain areas in Slovakia and Hungary using the SWAP simulation model. Valuable differences between the soil water content values were found at some locations. Our results indicate that characterisation of the soil water regime at sub-regional scale operating with spatially mean values of soil hydraulic properties can lead to avoiding the effects of extreme water regime situations.
23788063|In this research, starch and maltose content were determined by using the HPLC method for different dent maize hybrids, grown in Tekirda ecological conditions. Experimental materials were obtained from Tekirda Faculty of Agricultural Field Crops Department. The starch and maltose content of the thirty-five selected maize varieties were studied. Starch contents of OSSK 644 (84.73%), Karaay (84.39%) and AG 9242 (84.09%) were found to be higher than the other varieties. The lowest starch content (45.02%) was obtained from variety DK-647. The maltose content of maize hybrids was varied from 0.83% (Pegaso) to 2.71% (AG 9229). Negative and insignificantly correlation was obtained between starch and maltose content (r2: -0.150).
90002935|Besides the favourable agronomical effects, regular fertilisation may have unfavourable ecological side-effects as well. So, the further development of the fertilisation technologies is still one of the most important tasks of the scientists of agronomy and agrochemistry. The latest results of the National Uniformed Long-Term Fertilisation Experiments at Karcag concerning the effects NPK fertilisation on different chemical properties of the soil are summarized in this article.
23785249|The primary objective of this research was to determine which of two inoculation methods (the spray method and the injection method) was the better one to use in a head blight screening programme. Although our data did not reveal any clearcut difference between them in terms of their ability to create a disease situation or to generate a consistent ranking of test genotypes, there were, nevertheless, important differences between the two methods. The spray method was the only method that allowed the acquisition of performance data, such as grain yield per plot. In addition, the number of test genotypes that could be inoculated per unit of time was about five times greater with the the spray method than it was with the injection method. The data from these trials did not provide convincing evidence for, or against, the inclusion of post-inoculation covering in an artificial head blight screening protocol. Measures of agronomic impact, such as relative yield reduction, were more closely correlated with plant-based measures of head blight than with seed-based measures. The correlation between relative yield reduction and head blight severity measured 22 days post-inoculation was +0.95 and this was significantly (P<0.05) higher than any of the correlations involving seed-based measures. The inference from these results is that FHB severity recorded at about 3 weeks after inoculation may be the best method of quantifying the level of head blight resistance in test genotypes.
23783986|Six different bread wheat cultivars were used in a drought-stressed experiment, to estimate genetic variation and heritability for seven morphological characters related to drought. Path-analysis was used to partition the phenotypic correlations between some of the characters into direct and indirect effects. The phenotypic stability of the cultivars was estimated. Moderate genetic variation was displayed by the root system. The heritability estimates ranged from 0.30 to 0.94. The expected genetic advance with selection of the highest 5% was around 0.90 for the root system. The root system had a high positive significant correlation with total biomass, and showed the highest direct effect. Shoot heigth had a high negative significant correlation with total biomass, but exhibited the least direct effect. A significant difference was found between the root length and root-shoot ratio of Plainsman compared with those of other cultivars. All cultivars had average stability and general adaptation. However, due to its better root system, higher yield and shorter shoot height (plant height) Plainsman is the most suitable for drought tolerance breeding.
90003081|Endoparasitic nematodes (EPN) and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) are widespread in rhizosphere and roots and have opposite effects on plant health. Since, there is direct competition for space, the mutual antagonism between EPN and AMF has been observed. The objectives were to determine the effect of soybean cultivars on EPN in roots and root length colonization by AMF and their correlation. The cultivar effects and relationship between EPN and AMF colonization in soybean roots has been observed in roots of seven soybean cultivars, in randomized complete block design experiment. Significant differences were found between cultivars for the root infection by EPN and AMF colonization depending on the month of investigation. Relationship between the cultivars concerning interaction between EPN and AMF was found to be positive or negative depending on the cultivar and the month. Three cultivars (OS-1-0, OS-2-I, and OS-3-I) had strong negative correlation while the strength of correlation of other cultivars was weak. Our results suggest that mutual inhibition between EPN and AMF in soybean roots existed depending on the cultivar and the plant genotype as such affects their relationship.
23786273|Grain protein content is a major contributor to nutritional quality of wheat. Due to the negative relationship between yield and protein content, simultaneous improvement of these traits is very difficult. The aim of this study was to identify possible selection criteria to improve protein content and yield simultaneously. Six spring irrigated wheat cultivars were used as parent lines in a half diallel design. The F1 hybrid progeny and parents were used as experimental material. Both high and low protein wheat types translocated equal amounts of nitrogen to the grain. Phenotypic correlations re-emphasised the problems of simultaneous improvement of grain yield and protein content. The use of correlated response gave a better solution. If grain protein yield (highly significantly correlated with grain yield), was used as selection criterion, even protein per kernel showed a correlated response. It also had a relatively high narrow sense heritability. Grain protein yield selection therefore gave the only possible solution towards simultaneous improvement of grain yield, and grain protein content.
23782980|The crossability of Triticale /2n=42/ with diploid and tetraploid cultivars of Secale cereale L. have been studied. As a result of crosses between secondary hexaploid Triticale forms with tetraploid rye in F4 constant tetraploid Triticale forms have been obtained. There have been studied the morphological characters and the spike structure, the characters determining the productivity of F1-F6 plants and with differential staining of rye chromosomes /C-method/ the chromosome pairing and the meiotic disturbances of PMS. The data testify that the hybridization between Triticale /2n=42/ and S.cereale /2n=28/ is more promising than that between Triticale /2n=42/ and S.cereale /2n=14/ for obtaining tetraploid amphidiploids. The obtained Triticale /2n=28/ don't segregate and compared to the initial parent forms the new Triticale forms are:intermediate in inheritance of morphological characters and spike structure;with shorter stem and higher productive tillering; with long spikes and multifloret spikelets, resembling hexaploid amphidiploids; with lower average fertility and 1000 grain weight. The obtained Triticale /2n=28/ have the cytoplasm of T.aestivum and have in their genome 7 rye chromosome pairs /3 with 1 and 4 with 2 telomeric heterochromatin bloks - THB/. In metaphase I, as a result of desinapsis, rod bivalent number is increased and univalents appear. Desinapsis concerns mainly rye chromosomes with 1 THB.
23789994|Chlorophyll content is positively correlated with photosynthetic rate. However, little is known about the genetic correlation between grain yield and chlorophyll content in the same wheat mapping population. The primary goal of the study was to detect the genetic basis of grain yield and chlorophyll content and their possible roles in the genetic improvement of grain yield in wheat. Here, quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for grain yield and chlorophyll content were studied using a set of 168 doubled haploid (DH) lines derived from a cross between two elite Chinese wheat cultivars, Huapei 3xYumai 57. The DH population and parents were evaluated for grain yield and chlorophyll content in three environments. A total of 11 additive QTLs and 6 pairs of epistatic QTLs were detected for grain yield and chlorophyll content. Loci, such as Xcfd53, Xwmc718, and Xwmc215 on chromosomes (e.g. 2D, 4A, and 5D) simultaneously controling grain yield and chlorophyll content, showed tight linkages or pleiotropisms. Three novel major QTLs, qGY5D, qChla5D, and qChlb5D, closely linked with the PCR marker Xwmc215 on chromosome 5D, accounted for 10.32%, 12.95%, and 23.29% of the phenotypic variance, respectively. The favorable alleles came from Yumai 57.
23783037|A slant-board-absorbent culture technique was used to assess the effect of feeding of the greenbug (GB), Schizaphis graminum Rondani, the bird cherry oat aphid (BCO), Rhopalosiphum padi L., and the Russian wheat aphid (RWA), Diuraphis noxia L., on seedling growth of 'Rose' hard red winter wheat. The technique proved to be reliable since feeding by GB and BCO for seven days significantly reduced seminal root lengths as prior research has shown. Additionally, RWA significantly reduced root lengths.
23783902|The extent of soil acidity in the different dryland wheat production regions of South Africa was determined. Soil analyses indicated that 80,9% of the wheat fields in the Eastern Free State, 26% in the Central Free State and even 14,3% in the Western Cape had acidity levels that exceeded the critical soil acidity level for economically viable wheat production.
23789921|Durum wheat is a good source of protein. A grain protein content of 13% for durum is a standard in quality throughout the grain industry (Riley et al. 1998). Protein content like other traits in wheat is known to be affected by genetic and environmental factors mainly location (Bement et al. 2003). In this study we evaluated a set of 25 genotypes comprising introduction from CIMMYT and advanced lines developed through hybridization by the Ethiopian National Durum Wheat Research Project (NDWP) for protein content over six testing locations, representing the wheat agro-ecologies in the country. The experiments were conducted in a randomised complete block design (RBD) with three replications each. Plot size was kept at 2 m2. Grain protein content was analyzed following Kjeldahl method (A.A.C.C. 1983). Stability analysis was done according to Eberhart and Russel (1966) model and effect of locations and its interaction with genotypes were estimated following additive main effects and multiplicative interaction (AMMI) model. The mean grain protein content varied from 11.61 to 13.52% among the genotypes. Only three genotypes, namely CD98206, DZ3117 and DZ-04-118 attained higher grain protein content than standard 13.00%. Stability analysis revealed that all but three genotypes were observed to be predictable. DZ 2212-IBS was found suitable for favorable environments. Genotype CD97383 was found sensitive to change in environment. Eight genotypes were identified as stable. Genotypes DZ3117 was found to be the best having maximum protein content recorded at Alem Tena location and higher yield with stable performance across locations. AMMI analysis revealed that the first two significant IPCA scores together explained 73.55% of the total interaction variance. Biplot graphical analysis showed Alem Tena as the best location followed by Debre Zeit and Minjar in terms of average protein content of genotypes. Genotype DZ1669-1AK scored zero and could be considered as stable and wide adaptable having protein content higher than the general mean. The graphical analysis of IPCA 1 and IPCA 2 further revealed that this genotype was relatively close to origin zero. Genotype DZ-04-118 was adapted to Debre Zeit and Minjar while a large numbers of genotypes with negative IPCA score were adapted to Akaki and Chefe Donsa locations. Genotype DZ3117 had specific adaptability to Alem Tena location. High protein but low grain yield at Alem Tena may be due to the drought occurrence during grain filling period.
90002885|Drought stress is one of the most important environmental stresses affecting agricultural productivity and may result in considerable yield reduction. Tolerance to drought stress at seedling stage was examined for 26 winter wheat genotypes (
23783978|Chromosome number instability was studied in eight Brazilian wheat cultivars. The overall frequency of aneuploid plants was 3.0 percent with no significant variation among cultivars. Seven cultivars presented plants with chromosome mosaics in pollen mother cells (PMCs). The percentage of plants with mosaics differed among cultivars, varying from 1.8 to 60.0, with an average value of 9.0 percent. Thirty nine different deviating chromosome numbers ranging from 11 to 58 were identified. The deviating cells presented a high frequency of univalents as well as multivalents. A wide variation in the frequency of PMCs with deviating chromosome number was observed among plants of the same cultivar. Although the plants investigated were grown in different agroecological regions and in a growth chamber, no indication of relationship between mosaicism and place of cultivation was found.
23782949|Field and growth room studies of the 21 whole-chromosome disomic substitutions of the common wheat S-615 in the recipient variety Chinese Spring showed significant substitution effects on kernal weight. Substitutions of 4B and 5B significantly increased, and 2B decreased, kernel weight. Environments significantly affected kernel weight, with the greatest weight being obtained from plants from vernalized seed grown in a 14-h photoperiod. Significant differences also occurred among the three genomes and the seven homoeologous groups.
23786919|Nodding of barley spikes is a useful trait that decreases weathering damage. Peduncle curvature, along with the curvature of spike itself, determines the nodding of spikes. A major quantitative trait locus (QTL) for spike nodding as a result of peduncle curvature was previously mapped on barley chromosome 7(5H) using Steptoe x Morex doubled haploid mapping population. In the present study, spike nodding trait of Steptoe was successfully transferred into Morex background using RFLP markers, and a series of near isogenic lines were developed. Analysis of near isogenic lines located the QTL in a 43 cM interval flanked by ABG473-R3226 markers. A near isogenic line (H18) that contains up to 70 cM of Steptoe chromosome 7 was studied under field conditions. Kernel brightness and wort color and wort clarity properties were improved in H18 compared to recipient cultivar Morex. However, yield of H18 was somewhat lower than that of Morex. A more detailed study of the QTL region, especially for grain yield, is required before the use of this locus in malting barley breeding programs.
23782939|Rye and barley are resistant to Karnal bunt disease of wheat. Five out of the seven possible wheat-rye and wheat-barley addition lines were inoculated artificially at the boot stage. The addition lines 6R and 7R of rye and 1H and 4H of barley were completely free from Karnal bunt indicating that the chromosomes carry the genes for resistance to the disease.
23787577|The alates of Sitobion avenae started settling on wheat during first week of January (standard week 1) simultaneously with the activity of its predator, Coccinella septempunctata. However, the population density of this predator at this stage was very less. From standard week 5, the aphid population started increasing steadily and colonies of alates and apterous aphids were seen on leaves and stem. Middle of February to the start of March was the most favourable period for multiplication of this pest. The maximum population of cereal aphid was observed during standard week 10 (second week of March), when wheat (Triticum aestivum) crop was in earing stage and the temperature was between 8.5 and 23.1C along with a relative humidity of 45.7 to 88.3 per cent. The aphid started declining gradually during following weeks, finally disappearing by second week of April (standard week 15). Its predator, C. septempunctata was observed feeding on aphid colonies during standard week 4, which increased steadily till middle of April, when the aphid population started declining. This asynchrony in their population pattern in wheat crop is being contemplated to be the major cause of flare up of the population of this pest. The correlation drawn between different stages of predator and aphid population revealed that the collective contribution of these factors was 93.92 per cent. Abiotic (temperature and relative humidity) and biotic (predator) factors were observed to be significantly influencing the aphid population in this crop ecosystem.
23784034|Morphological traits, fertility and yield related characters of recombined tetraploid triticale lines grown in the field were studied. The lines had been produced in a breeding programme that introduced genetic material from hexaploid wheat into tetraploid triticale. The material offers a great variability and a broad basis of selection. Lines of reasonable fertility could be selected.
90003138|In a long term mineral fertilisation experiment the nutrient uptake, dynamics of growth, green mass, sugar yield and dry matter yield of Silage orghum were analysed. The soil of the experimental area was calcareous in the deeper layers, with an 85-100 cm humus layer, pH
90003320|Chemical treatment against wheat head blight during flowering period significantly increases yield and technological parameters of wheat. Macro-trial results reveal that use of sprayer Twin Jet (TJ 60) provide high-quality ear coverage and high level of efficacy againts wheat head blight.
90002884|The seed vigour of four Croatian soybean cultivars was tested using standard germination tests (GR and SG), cold test (CT) and seed conductivity (EC). Vigour parameters were correlated to lipid peroxidation (TBARS) and proline content (PRO) in hypocotyls and cotyledons developed in SG and CT germination condition. Based on the significant correlations among the tested parameters, in the stressful conditions of CT, proline accumulation in cotyledons was less promoted in lower vigour seeds having low CT and high EC values. TBARS and PRO were higher in cotyledons in both tests and negatively correlated.
23781365|The alleles for the gene loci, Glu-A1, Glu-B1 and Glu-D1 are formally defined and cross referenced to the lettering and numbering systems used by the authors and by other research groups to describe the gene products, the high-molecular-weight subunits of glutenin. It is recommended that these alleles be referred to in future by all research groups, in addition to using their own subunit nomenclature, so enabling the work of different laboratories to be compared without difficulty.
23786809|A test panel of 18 different Fusarium graminearum strains was studied using the AFLP fingerprinting methodology. Fifteen of the 18 strains showed a high degree of similarity in banding patterns. The banding patterns of the remaining three strains completely differed from the F. graminearum pattern found. Of these strains one strain was revealed as F. cerealis by comparison of its pattern against a AFLP database of different Fusarium species.
23790376|To determine limits of tolerance, provide information about genetic diversity, and explore potential as progenitors for a salt-tolerant wheat improvement program, we collected several landraces and genotypes reputed to be salt-tolerant. Salt tolerance was tested by irrigation with a diluted solution of seawater with 12 dS. m 1 electrical conductivity for two years. Phenotypic parameters of percent of emergence, days to flowering to spike emergence, and physiological maturity were not significantly affected. Leaf area was sensitive to salt stress and inhibited about 30%. Plant height was inhibited 30%, while spike length and number of grains per spike were not. Total yield of Shorawaki and Kharchia landraces confirmed their reputation as salt-tolerant. Cultivars Mepuchi, Pericu, Calafia, WH157, and SNH-1 were inhibited at a moderate level of tolerance; cultivars Cochim, Lu26S, and KRL 1-4 were inhibited, as was the control cultivar Oasis by up to 50%. To amplify microsatellites from genomes A, B, and D, 33 pairs of primers were used. The microsatellite WMS169-6A was highly polymorphic, with 10 different alleles distinguishing the genotype set. Also, the short arm of chromosome 4D microsatellites were amplified and found to be monomorphic, which suggests highly conserved alleles. The other microsatellites had variable polymorphism. In total, 120 alleles were obtained and used to define genetic diversity. The resulting dendrogram showed that landraces Shorawaki and Kharchia are distantly grouped from all other cultivars, as well as the cultivar Chinese Spring. Strikingly, KRL1-4, a derivative of Kharchia, did not show a close relationship to its source. The geographic origin did not influence pair-wise combinations. However, pedigree did influence pair-wise combinations.
23777725|Breeding for improvement of the utilization value of bread wheat that is baking quality and forage value (food value) requires, on the one hand, fixing of objectives to be reached in describing qualitative characteristics to be looked for and on the other hand the possibility of judging genotypes during the breeding programme. Difficulties encountered by the breeder in judging utilization value of genotypes are fluctuation of qualitative characteristics with environmental conditions and the inverse relation between protein content and grain productivity. These have led us to propose criteria for genotype appreciation less dependent on environmental conditions applied to the original breeding schemes.
90002809|It was studied in a long-term experiment on chernozem soil, the effect of crop rotation, irrigation, fertilization and plant density on the yield of maize in an extremely dry year in 2007. The yield increment due to irrigation was 3100-4000 kg ha
23787294|Intra-varietal selection for grain yield was carried out in five triticale (X Triticosecale Wittmack) cultivars, maintained by the "off type" plant elimination method. Totally eight selections identified, purified and multiplied by the "ear-to-row" method, were evaluated for yield, together with their original cultivars, in five locations for three years. The analysis of variance revealed that only one of the selected lines was better in yield performance than its original cultivar. In all examined cases no significant effect in qualitative traits was recorded. Thus, the results of the present study could suggest that intra-varietal selection for grain yield in advanced generations in triticale was not found effective in yield improvement Visual inspection and selection of plants differing in some morphological traits was found to be no sufficient to provide yield increase in triticale.
23785332|The chromosome N-banding patterns, size and arm ratio were studied in nine Afghan local wheat accessions, Triticum aestivum L. - Acc 258, Acc 372, Acc 373, Acc 394, Acc 412, Acc 413, Acc 416, Acc 442 and Acc 539. Certain chromosome bands were missing in comparison with the standard banded karyotype of 'Chinese Spring'. Specific additional N-positive bands were established for some of the accessions. The variation was most significant for chromosome 3B. The lower intensity of the band 2AL1.3 or its lack, both of the telomeric and sub-telomeric bands in the long arm of 3BL, and the lower number of bands in the short arm of 3B are typical features of the most of the accessions. Some chromosome aberrations were observed. A reciprocal translocation involving the short arm of 5B was observed in Acc 442. The other chromosome involved in this translocation is supposed to be 2A. The short arm of 3B in Acc 416 and Acc 422 has a deletion resulting in altered N-banding pattern. This aberration is more significant in the latter accession and alters the length of chromosome 3B, its arm ratio and the relative rank among the B-genome chromosomes.
23786795|Effects of Russian wheat aphid (Diuraphis noxia Mordvilko) feeding on resistant wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) plant introducting line, PI 137739 (antibiotic line), and a susceptible cultivar, Stephens, were examined. Reduction in leaf chlorophyll content was determined after different densities (0,40 and 80) of aphids were allowed to feed for 3, 6, 9, and 11 days in leaf cages attached to seedlings. In the non-caged region of infested plants, leaf chlorophyll content was significantly higher in PI 137739 compared with Stephens. Reduction in chlorophyll content was not aphid-density or duration of aphid-feeding dependent in the non-caged regions. In the caged region, increased physical damage to leaves and significant reduction in total chlorophyll content were observed in PI 137739 compared with Stephens. Increased aphid density and prolonged aphid-feeding caused greater reduction in leaf chlorophyll content in caged sections. Increased probing of aphids because of restricted movement in the caged section and tissue unpalatibility of the resistant genotype could have caused severe chlorophyll reduction in the resistant plant introduction line, PI 137739.
90003037|Nine maize (
23783888|A method for culturing detached wheat ears in liquid media has been developed in order to examine the effect of grain drying rate on alpha-amylase activity in near-isogenic lines of wheat which contain the gibberellic acid-insensitive dwarfing (Rht) genes. The results show that the incorporation of polyethylene glycol (PEG) in the culture medium can be successfully used to alter grain drying rates. Overall, alpha-amylase activity was significantly lower (p = <0.001) in caryopses cultured on PEG. However, despite the range of drying rates achieved, there was no correlation between alpha-amylase activity and drying rate.
23785331|The polymorphic RAPD and SSR markers were used for distinguishing of commercial barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivars and for comparison of differentiation capability of RAPD and SSR techniques. Fifteen of the 36 arbitrary used 10-oligonucleotide RAPD primers produced polymorphic RAPD markers. Two from twenty-three cultivars were undistinguished by generated RAPD markers. Jaccard's coefficients of genetic similarity based on RAPD analyses varied from 0.250 to 1.0. Five SSR-based oligonucleotide primers used produced polymorphic, scorable, and reproducible patterns. All 23 cultivars were distinguished each of others by SSR markers. Jaccard's coefficients of genetic similarity based on the SSR analyses varied from 0.0 to 0.833. The differentiation capability of two PCR-based techniques compared on the set of 23 commercial barley cultivars revealed that differentiation effectivity of SSR technique was more than seven times higher in comparison with the RAPD technique. The SSR primers were used also for differentiation of a second set of 40 spring and winter barley cultivars. They differentiated into 35 groups by SSR analyses. Higher genetic similarity was detected in subgroup of the winter barley cultivars.
23787211|Applicability of remote sensing to detect virus infection of wheat was studied under field conditions. The experiments were carried in a wheat variety experimental field in Szeged, Hungary, continuously exposed to natural infection by viruses from sowing to harvest. Plants were evaluated for virus infections by visual inspection and aerial photography, and viral contents were quantitated by DAS-ELISA of randomly taken samples. Analysis of the results showed a direct relationship between the extent of yellowing of the leaves and the rate of Wheat dwarf bigemovirus (WDV) and Barley yellow dwarf luteovirus (BYDV) infection, but not with that of other wheat pathogenic viruses, such as Wheat streak mosaic tritimovirus (WSMV), Brome mosaic bromovirus (BMV), and Barley stripe mosaic hordeivirus (BSMV).
23786149|In the present study, changes in freezing resistance during the hardening of nine durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.) cultivars were evaluated in a phytotron in Martonvsr. Hardening was carried out at a constant temperature of +2C for 0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 100 days, after which the plants from all the treatments were frozen at 13.5C. Considerable varietal differences in the hardening kinetics were recorded for the durum genotypes investigated. The freezing resistance of the genotypes was negligible after 020 days of hardening. The maximum degree of freezing resistance was reached after 3050 days of hardening. A considerable decrease in freezing resistance was observed in plants kept at +2C for 60 days or more. Judging by the results of these and earlier experiments, on average T. durum genotypes achieve a lower level of hardening, which generally has a shorter duration, than that observed in winter T. aestivum cultivars.
23784032|Eleven genetic stocks and fifty five F2's formed the material to obtain the information on combining abilities of latent period and pustule size in wheat. Parent P1438 was the best combiner for latent period and pustule size. The cross P1501  P1523 was recorded to be good combination for latent period. The cross combinations P10015  Agro Local and P10015  P1523 showed high sca effects for pustule size. These crosses could be expected to give desirable transgressive segregants in wheat.
23783663|Variation in grain peroxidase (Prx) isozymes among tissues, developmental stages, and physiological states was studied in three wheat genotypes, near-isogenic for factors affecting grain dormancy to determine if specific bands are associated with dormancy. Endosperm Prx isozymes were most prominent early in grain development, declining as seed matured, and almost absent from afterripened grain. Embryo Prx isozymes were detected as early as 7 days after anthesis, but did not reach maximal activity or diversity until physiological maturity of the grain. Germination was associated with stimulation of pre-existing embryo Prx isozymes, as well as appearance of new isozymes. The two parental lines, RL4137 (dormant) and Neepawa (non-dormant), showed only small differences in peroxidase activities, and no isozymes were unique to one genotype or the other. Peroxidase activities in RL4137 and Neepawa, as well as in their dormant backcross derivative Columbus, decline after grains reach physiological maturity, regardless of the level of grain dormancy. Differences in grain dormancy among these genotypes appear independent of differences in Prx isozyme activities.
23783049|An electrophoretical survey was carried out in ploidy distinguishable species of subtribe Triticinae, using five isozyme systems. Some of the enzymes have been used as markers of definite genetic systems in Aegilops speltoides. The data showed that the increasing of the ploidy level led to a reduction of the intraspecies isozyme diversity, which might be related to the lower genetics variability in polyploids.
23786093|Presence occurrence of the stem rust resistance gene Sr36 in the cultivar GK Kincs was identified by classical genetic analysis. Wheat cultivars containing GK Kincs in their pedigree (GK Garaboly, GK Gb, GK Kalsz, GK Zugoly, GK Szindbd) showed similar reactions to 18 stem rust isolates as GK Kincs and the near isogenic line for Sr36. Therefore the presence of Sr36 was postulated for these genotypes. Several of them may possess additional gene(s) causing slight differences in their reaction pattern compared with reactions of GK Kincs. The gene Sr36 provided durable resistance in the field during the last 22 years, in Hungary.
23777681|The grain obtained from 25 of the possible 42 ditelosomics of bread wheat variety Chinese Spring, grom along with the control parent variety, was analysed for its amino acid composition. No major changes in grain amino acid composition were found could be associated with the specific chromosomal arms. The results suggest that the storage proteins controlled by the gene(s) located on the chromosomal arms examined either do not differ much from the average amino acid composition of the grain or such proteins are not present in substantial quantities to make any appreciable changes. The gene(s), if any, that can bring about major changes in the component proteins and thereby altering the amino acid composition are either absent or, more likely, present in duplicate or triplicate.
23790346|Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis was applied to genotype 186 Czech isolates of the Fusarium species responsible for head blight disease in wheat. Using 15 primer combinations, 694 polymorphic fragments were detected. The effective number of patterns was dependent on both the identity of the selective primer combination and on which Fusarium species was involved. The most informative primer combinations were CAT + AT, CAT + AC and CTA + AG, and a triplex assay based on CAT was able to distinguish all 186 isolates from each other. A principal component analysis identified six phylogenetic clusters, and this genetic architecture was supported by an analysis of population structure. AFLP profiling is an appropriate method for uncovering differences between these groups of Fusarium species.
90003012|Zeolites are crystalline hydrated aluminosilicates of alkali and alkaline earth cations, consisting of three-dimensional frameworks of SiO
23781382|Wheat-rye hybrids, (Triticum aestivum L. var. Saratovskaya 29 x Secale cereale L. var. Onohoiskaya) x Triticum aestivum L. var. Saratovskaya 29, were studied by the Giemsa C-banding techinique. The wheat-rye substitution lines were identified by the C-banding technique. For this purpose, it was sufficient to analyse the F4 only. This cross combination was efficient in the production of wheat-rye substitution lines. About 50% of the F4(BC1) lines were wheat-rye substitution lines. In the progeny of each hybrid, 1-4 different rye chromosomes were identified. Thus, in the progenies of 3 wheat-rye hybrids, we identified 6 different substitution lines: 2n=40w+2r(1RII), 2n=40w+2r(2RII), 2n=40w+2r(4RII), 2n=40w+2r(5RII), 2n=40w+2r(6RII), 2n=38w+4r(1RII+6RII). The results of meiotic analysis of the F1 of Chinese Spring ditelocentrics x wheat-rye substitution 1R line demonstrated that the rye chromosome substituted wheat chromosome 1A. This scheme of cross combination is suggested for the production of wheat-rye substitution lines.
90003131|The aim of our study was to analyse the presence of toxic elements in the soil and in plants related to the same species. The field of our research was a communal waste site in Gdll, Hungary. Samples were taken from the remediated part of the site from the soil cover. The accumulation of toxic elements (heavy metals) was tested in White Campion (
23786231|After artificial infection with various isolates of Fusarium graminearum and F. culmorum, kernel infection, deoxynivalenol (DON) and ergosterol contents were assessed by means of visual inspection, RP-HPLC and GC/MS, respectively, in four winter wheat varieties of different Fusarium-resistance. It was found that both DON and ergosterol contents correlated with kernel infection strongly and positively (r=0.8981 and r=0.8945). Similarly, there was a strong, positive correlation (r=0.8737) between DON and ergosterol contents in the infected grains. Since the ergosterol content could be determined with a significantly greater sensitivity than that of the DON, assessment of the former compound can be used as a good and more predictive indicator of Fusarium disease level in winter wheat, requiring minimum amount of grain material. Furthermore, knowledge of the ergosterol concentration in the scabby grains can facilitate the practical application of the quality grading system of Schnrer (1995) to wheat infected by Fusarium spp.
23783808|Expression of 6 rye traits expressing in triticale was studied in 6 hexaploid triticale X bread wheat hybrids. The results revealed complete expression of anthocyanin pigment in coleoptile and powdery mildew resistance, indicating no effect of the D-genome of wheat on the expression of these traits. However, the D-genome seems to be suppressing the expression of waxy bloom on leaf sheath, hairiness of peduncle and long florets which expressed incompletely in the hybrids. Anthocyanin pigment in anthers at dehiscence also expressed in the hybrids, but was found to be highly influenced by ambient temperature and/or photoperiod.
23787104|The aim of the investigation was to test high yielding spring wheat varieties under different N rates and planting methods for characterizing the lodging resistance parameters and enhancing the yield by reducing lodging. Bed planting increased stem weight (8.1 %), spike weight (7.2 %), diameter of first (3.8 %), second (7.1 %), third (8.2 %) internode and peduncle (9.0 %) as compared to flat planted crop and this lead to 70-75 % reduction in lodging score. Raising on beds also gave significantly higher biomass (18.48 t/ha), grain yield (8.75 t/ha), thousand grain weight (41.1 g), grains/spike (42) and grains/m2 (19154) as compared to other planting methods, despite lodging during last irrigation (25-30 days after anthesis). On the other hand, grain yield under permanent bed system (non-tilled during last five years) was 28 % lesser than bed planting due to 25-30 % reduction in spikes/m2 and grains/m2. Effect of N rates on yield and morphological parameters was at par due to recommended or higher N use besides green manuring. Baviacora 92 produced significantly higher biomass (17.1 t/ha), grain yield (8.5 t/ha) and had significantly higher stem and spike weight, diameter and stem wall thickness of different internodes than other varieties. It also recorded 7 % higher grain yield with bed planting (9.5 t/ha) as compared to flat planting (8.8 t/ha). Since this variety didn't lodge in either planting system therefore it could be said that increase in yield was due to planting on beds. So, it can be said that wheat growing on beds reduces lodging by way of more vigorous stem development and enables to exploit potential yield.
23777610|It was shown that in the case of long-day plants such as wheat, barley, oats and rye the different types of development /winter, semiwinter, alternate, spring/ are caused basically not by the length of vernalization as was supposed but by the light reaction in the tillering stage. /The backwardness of development is caused by the light conditions which are the measure of this backwardness/. The fact that the wintering varieties /winter, semiwinter, alternate/ as opposed to the spring plants are significantly behind in development and growth under the light conditions preceding the beginning of unfavourable winter conditions, makes them able to winter. Moreover some wintering varieties /alternate/ are behind not only under short day conditions, but also under long day and relatively intense light conditions. The plants respond to the vernalization with an acceleration of development in a pattern typical of their light reaction. The plants respond to the vernalization under the inhibiting light conditions and the more behind they are the stronger this reaction is. The external factor - low temperature reverses the reaction of the plants to the other external factor - light - The wintering varieties with different types of development /winter, alternate/ which are phylogenetically close relatives, differ in neither the length of the vernalization, nor the light condition reaction, nor the process of vernalization. Vernalization is not absolutely necessary, it is a facultative process in ontogenesis. As a result of vernalization the plants lose their ability to adapt to certain light conditions that put them behind in development. The differences in the character of ontogenesis and in the length of the vegetation period are determined by the reaction of the cereals to the light, under vernalization as well.
90002905|Ragweed (
23780340|1. Considering the disease incidence which occurs in the case of treatments with different fertilizers, it was concluded that the increase of N-fertilizer dosages gives the higher disease severity. 2. Adding phosphorous fertilizer to nitrogen makes the plant more susceptible to disease, but potassium lesses this effect. 3. The high level of infection observed at the heading stage does not significantly decrease the seed number per ear, but inhibits the development of grains or results in a decreased 1000-kernel weight. 4. The yield was decreased by increasing nitrogen fertilizer either alone or in a combined form. This decrease in yield related to the marked increase of disease incidence.
90002989|Intensive field cultivation of sweet pepper applying drip irrigation, fertigation and plastic mulch can be an effective tool for optimizing irrigation water use for this very water demanding crop. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of mulched raised bed cultivation method on water use efficiency (WUE) and to evaluate the WUE of intensive sweet pepper field cultivation among semiarid conditions. It was found that cultivation on mulched raised bed increased WUE by 23-59% compared to unmulched level ground growing method. Based on the data of five years of experiments with intensive field cultivation, in an average year WUE for a sweet Hungarian yellow wax type cultivar was found to be 16-19 kg m
23792314|In this study, simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were used to investigate the genetic diversity and evolutioary relationships among 74 barley accessions; 15 landraces (Hordeum vulgare) and 59 wild accessions (twenty-one Hordeum spontaneum, ten Hordeum bulbosum, thirteen Hordeum murinum and fifteen Hordeum marinum). A total of 66 alleles were detected at 12 SSR loci, with an average of 5.5 alleles per locus in the entire samples. The average number of alleles (4.2) per locus was higher in H. vulgare and H. spontaneum, reflecting more genetic diversity within these two species compared with the other species. All index values of genetic diversity revealed that there was higher genetic diversity within H. vulgare landraces than within the wild species, indicating that cultivation unlikely to have caused a loss of genetic diversity in cultivated barley compared with its wild relatives. Analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) revealed that 31% of the total observed variation was accounted for among species. Based on neighbor-joining clustering, the five species were classified into three main groups: (i) all accessions of H. marinum and H. bulbosum plus two accessions of H. murinum; (ii) H. vulgare and H. spontaneum accessions, in small, separated groups; and (iii) the remaining accessions of H. murinum. Principal coordinates analysis (PCoA) for SSR data also supported the neighbor-joining clustering. These results have important implications for barley germplasm characterization, improvement, molecular systematics and conservation.
23790375|The most abundant seed storage proteins of wheat are gliadins and glutenins. Gliadins, including /,  and  types, are normally monomeric proteins and account for about 50% of the gluten proteins. In this study, 55 sequences of -gliadin genes were obtained from species of Sitopsis section, the deduced B genome donors of wheat. Despite the high sequence similarities to the known -gliadin genes, extensive variations were also found. Using the extensive sequence information deposited in database and obtained in this study, a comprehensive classification of the -gliadin multigene families were performed based on the primary structures and phylogenic analysis. All the -gliadin genes analyzed could be divided into 2 types, which contain 8 and 9 cysteines, respectively. Type I (with 8 cysteines) and type II (with 9 cysteines) are further classified to 7 and 4 groups, respectively, and several subgroups are also identified. The genes derived from A, B and D genomes of common wheat were clustered distinctly, indicating that there was apparent genomic specificity in -gliadins genes. Besides the high homology between -gliadin genes from Sitopsis species and B genome of wheat, some unique groups or subgroups were also identified in Sitopsis section, suggesting that it could be considered as a valuable source of -gliadin genes. The comparison of deduced primary structures of each group and/or subgroup was conducted, from which their evolution and quality properties were also speculated.
90003347|Soil salinization, as one of the most important abiotic stresses in irrigated plant production, combined with metal contamination represents a serious threat to food production and human food safety. The influence of a factorial combination of four salinity concentrations (0, 20, 40 and 60 mM NaCl added as solution) and three cadmium (Cd) levels (0.3, 2.5 and 5 mg kg
23786975|Hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is one of the most important crops in the world with 582,691,612 million tonnes produced in 2001 on one third of the world's cultivated area. It has a very large genome (16700 Mb) that is 35 times that of rice. To develop genomic resources for positional cloning and structural genomics in wheat, a joint collaboration was set up between BBSRC (UK) and INRA (France) to construct a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library from the wheat cultivar Chinese Spring with Hind III as the cloning site. The BAC library consists of 1,200,000 clones (3125 384-well microtitre plates). A random sampling of 1000 clones representing different ligations indicated an average insert size of 130 kilobases (kb) (ranging from 45 to 350 kb) and 3% empty clones (either empty vectors or no growth of colony). Screening the colony filters for organellar DNA content indicated a low level of contamination with chloroplast and mitochondria DNA (0.49% and 0.15% respectively). The library gives 9.3 haploid genome equivalents allowing a 99.99% probability of recovering any specific sequence of interest. Clones were gridded onto high-density filters using the Q-PIX and Q-Bot robots (Genetix limited, Hamphire, UK) in a 4 x 4, 5 x 5 and 6 x 6 double-spotted array on 22.5 cm2 filters. Filters and clones are publicly available, being unencumbered in terms of IP, and will be provided on request.
23787096|Amylopectin structure and its long B chain content in rice (Oryza sativa L.) regarded as an important eating quality determinant has gained acceptance since mid-1980s. Hot-water-insoluble amylose content (HISAC), an indirect measure of long B chain of amylopectin, has been proposed as a complementary criterion for evaluation of rice eating quality. However, little has been known of the distribution of HISAC in various rice accessions and its relationships with other quality characters, etc. By using 85 non-waxy rice accessions and breeding lines of indica, japonica and those with intermediate genetic background between indica and japonica, their HISAC were measured to analyze the correlation between HISAC and apparent amylose content (AAC) and pasting viscosity characters of RVA profiles. Great differences were found in the distribution of HISAC among various rice types, ranging from the lowest 8.0% in low AAC varieties, to the highest 17.9% in high AAC ones and with an average of 11.1% on the whole. The ratio of HISAC to AAC was often higher than 90% in low AAC rice, and decreased linearly with the increase of AAC upto 15%. For most rice varieties of AAC higher than 15%, the ratios remained around 50% to 70%. HISAC was significantly correlated to both AAC and HSAC, with coefficients of 0.8913** and 0.6100**, respectively. HISAC proved positively or negatively correlated to the values of setback and breakdown viscosity, the two most important values of RVA profile related to eating quality, with significant coefficients of 0.6083** and 0.5942**, respectively. However, these coefficients were smaller than coefficients between AAC and above mentioned characters of RVA profile. These results implied that HISAC alone could not perfectly reflect the importance of amylopectin in determination of eating quality of rice.
23783937|Evaluation of random pairs of near isogenic tall (rht) and dwarf (Rht) lines under late sown conditions indicated that the Rht1, Rht2 and Rht3 dwarfing genes were associated with 22.25%, 14.19% and 26.73% reduction in grain yield, respectively. The negative effect of each of the three Rht genes on grain yield was due to significant reduction in biological yield. In turn, the poor biological yield in Rht1 and Rht2 lines was due mainly to reduced number of lighter tillers while in Rht3 lines it was due to lighter tillers, less number of grains per floret and grains per spike and reduced 100 grain weight. The mechanisms, involved in grain yield reduction in the lines containing different Rht genes were, thus, different. It is suggested that the poor grain yield and biological yield of the Rht lines may arise due to their greater sensitivity to stress factors, particularly warm conditions, associated with late sowings.
90002983|Chlorophyll contents and NO
90003078|Fodder radish was grown in 1 mg kg
23792312|Anthocyanin accumulation in vegetative organs has a relationship to stress resistance in plants. In wheat, ability to accumulate anthocyanins in the coleoptile is inherited and controlled by the Rc (red coleoptile) genes. The aim of the current study was to find potential sources of 'strong' Rc alleles conferring very high levels of anthocyanin production and to study the effect of genetic background on Rc expression. We measured the relative anthocyanin content (OD 530 ) in the coleoptile of different wheat and wheat-alien genetic stocks and accessions to find potential sources of 'strong' Rc alleles conferring very high levels of anthocyanin production. The OD 530 values varied from 0.514 to 3.311 in genotypes having red coleoptiles. The highest anthocyanin content was detected in coleoptiles of four Triticum dicoccoides accessions originating from Israel and the Russian T. aestivum cultivar 'Novosibirskaya 67', suggesting that their Rc alleles can be used to increase anthocyanin content in the coleoptile of wheat cultivars. It is also suggested that rye Rc alleles, such as that of Russian cultivar 'Selenga', can be used to increase anthocyanin content in triticale seedlings.
23782950|Differential winter survival of 12 wheat cultivars and 1 rye cultivar followed a winter during which the crown depth temperature did not go below the critical temperatures of 20C for well-hardened or 16C for lesshardened wheats. This suggested that low temperature, per se, was not the cause of winter injury. The exposure of these cultivars to desiccating conditions in the field, without the occurrence of low temperatures injurious to crowns, suggested desiccation as an important factor in winter injury of wheat.
23777685|A 4-5% selection intensity for large and small seed size was applied to six F2 segregating populations of hexaploid triticale (X Triticosecale Wittmack) and an advanced line, which acted as a control. Plots seeded with large seeds yielded significantly more than plots seeded with small seeds in five of the six populations, while there was no effect on the sixth population and the segregating line. It is concluded that selection for large seed size in the F2 could be an effective means of improving the yield of the resulting F3 generations in triticale populations.
90003356|The impact of irrigation on crop yield is usually described by the yield growth extent. If precipitation supply is average, maize irrigation is ineffective, but it can result in significant yield surplus in drought. Also, there are  rather rare  conditions, in which irrigation causes yield drop. This happened at the latitudinal degree 4756 and the longitudinal degree 2144 in 2005 and 2006. Many explain the negative impact of irrigation by the lack of air in the soil. We found a different reason for this in our experiment, in which we examined the impact of previous crop, cultivation and fertilisation on maize production. The lack of air in soil cannot be observed in a chernozem soil with good structure. After maize as green croup, yield was lower by 1 t ha-1, whereas was only a 0.34 t ha-1 drop after wheat. The impact of irrigation on maize yield after autumn ploughing was -900 kg ha-1, whereas it was -800 kg ha-1 after disk cultivation and -600 kg ha-1 after spring ploughing. These results cannot be explained by the lack of air, as it would have provided the opposite result. Due to our analyses, the N concentration of the soil solution is determinant. If there is a much N in the soil, water will not dilute the N concentration to a critical extent. Fertiliser treatments supported this hypothesis, as the irrigation-induced yield drop was the highest on non-fertilised plots and the lowest (zero) on plots that with the highest amount of fertiliser.
90003027|krlet bijeli is autochthonous grapevine cultivar grown in continental region. In the year 2000 programme of clonal selection started, 80 elite mother vines were selected and planted into two experimental collections. Most important agronomic traits were measured for 44 evenly distributed clonal candidates were measured and compared to their position in microdistricts in vineyard. Significant impact of the year was detected for all the traits. Variability between clonal candidates was also observed and some of them are promising candidates for individual clonal selection.
23785254|The hematoxylin staining of root tips after aluminum (A1) stress is a prevalent method for evaluating tolerance of common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). The proposed method of reporting Al tolerance is simple and versatile and allows quantitative comparison among small grain genotypes.
23785329|Maize (Zea mays L.) anthers of the variety Zac.58-VO and the H-34 hybrid were cultivated in liquid and solid Murashigue-Skoog (MS) and Yu Pei (YP) media supplemented with one, three, 10, 30 or 100 times the original concentration of the five most abundant free amino acids previously found in the same maize anthers. These amino acids were alanine, asparagine, aspartic acid, and glutamic acid, as well as serine in Zac.58-VO and glutamine in H-34. The results indicate that free amino acid composition of anther-containing microspores in the mid-uninucleate stage of microsporogenesis show few significant differences between cultivars. Addition of the five most abundant free amino acids to the culture media improve anther viability, callus formation, and development of embryo-like structures. Both MS and YP liquid media, supplemented with three and 10 times the amino acid concentration, increased 12 and 20 days anther viability in Zac.58-VO and H-34, respectively. Callus induction and embryolike structures formation were 10% and 9.5% for the hybrid H-34 in YP liquid medium supplemented with three times the free amino acid concentration. In contrast, anthers of the landrace Zac.58-VO cultivated under the same conditions yielded only 4% and 3.5%, respectively. Therefore there exists a close relationship between the degree of improvement of the cultivar and the expression of the androgenic character.
90003280|Four winter wheat cultivars, differing in resistance to
23782997|The phenotypic stability of grain and biological and fodder yields in respect of pure lines, vybrids and hybrids in Sorghum bicolor L. Moench. was tested. Six pure lines, two vybrids and two popular commercial hybrids were tested at 5 locations. For grain yield, the hybrids exhibited superiority over pure lines with the vybrids occupying an intermediate position. For total dry matter, the vybrids were superior in all types of environments. The hybrids, however, were inferior to the pure lines in less favourable environments, but as the environment tended to improve they surpassed the pure lines and approached the vybrids in their performance. In respect of fodder yield, the vybrids were superior to pure lines and hybrids in less favourable environments but tended to approach them in favourable environments. Fodder yields of vybrids were superior to pure lines and hybrids in poor environments but under favourable environments all categories of materials tended to be equal in their performance. Essentially linear relationship existed between the performance of the entries and the environmental index. The deviations from regressions were not significant for all the materials for grain yield. For biological and fodder yields, these values were not significant only in the case of vybrids. It was concluded that in situations where sorghums are grown for both fodder and grain, the vybrids represent optimal phenotypes exhibiting greater stability of performance over diverse environments.
90002896|In a pot trial with
23781321|The F2 data from an 8  8 diallel set was used for combining ability analysis in wheat. Grain yield was largely governed by dominance and the components of yield showed a preponderance of additive gene action. The correlation between GCA variances and effects obtained from F1 and F2 data separately were significantly for almost all the character studied in two environments, whereas correlations between the SCA variances as well as between SCA effects were found to be non-significant. The results indicated that the F2 generation could effectively be used for assessing the general combining ability. A marked decline in the estimates of SCA variances and effects was observed in the F2.
90002987|Soil and plant interrelations are strong enough in semi-natural solonetzic grasslands to permit the use of plant cover as predictor variable for soil salinity, sodicity and alkalinity. Four data sets were analysed which covered 4-7 plant association types, with sample sizes ranging from 20 to 120 and quadrat sizes 0.16 to 20 m
23790311|Inheritance of male sterility and fertility restoration of the A 1 system of cytoplasmic- nuclear male sterility in pearl millet was investigated using 12 crosses among three diverse male sterile lines (A-lines) and four diverse restorers (R-lines). Individual plants from R- lines were used to make crosses on A-lines. The segregation pattern of male sterile (S) and male fertile (F) plants observed in F 2 and BC 1 in two seasons at ICRISAT, Patancheru was suggestive more likely of a single-gene control of male sterility and fertility restoration. However, a 3-gene model of male sterility/fertility restoration where dominant alleles at any two of the three duplicate complimentary loci will lead to male fertility could not be ruled out, nor could be ruled out a 2-gene control with duplicate interaction. There was indication of variability even within a highly inbred R-line for fertility restoration gene(s). Depending on the genetic constitution of the R-lines at these loci, even the 3-gene model can lead to single-gene segregation ratios as observed in most of the F 2 s and backcrosses, and 2-gene ratios as observed in a few F 2 s and backcrosses. The deviations from these expected ratios in some of the crosses influenced by modifiers and environmental conditions generally resulted from the excess of fertile plants in the rainy season or excess of sterile plants in the dry season, the more so in crosses involving an A-line which has been reported to be relatively more unstable for male sterility.
23784284|Two factors, period of pollination and parental influence, were investigated in a programme of doubled haploid barley production under glass house conditions. In one experiment, 3 F1 barley hybrids were crossed with 3 clones of Hordeum bulbosum L. and with their pollen mixture. In another one, 7 F1 barley hybrids were crossed with H. bulbosum L. using a pollen mixture of two of the clones used in the first experiment. In the second experiment crosses were done during April, May, June and July. The number of differentiated embryos cultured per florets pollinated (EC/FP) the number of barley haploid plantlets per embryos cultured (HP/EC) and the number of haploid plants per ear pollinated (HP/EP)were recorded. There were significant differences between the F1 barley hybrids, the H. bulbosum L. clones and the periods of pollination. The rate of haploid plants per ear pollinated (HP/EP) varied between 0.5 to 2.9. The pollination period generally had an effect on all hybrids with an important increase when approaching the natural period of pollination and there was no difference between May, June and July for EC/FP whilst April had the lowest values. The best results were obtained in April and May for HP/EC.
23792319|Three field experiments were conducted to determine the effect of soil Zn, foliar Zn, and soil N application on Zn and phytic acid concentrations in wheat grain grown on potentially Zn-deficient soil. Results showed significant genotypic variation in grain Zn concentrations among fifteen wheat cultivars commonly grown in northwest China. Soil Zn application had mixed effects, increasing grain Zn concentrations of some cultivars by as much as 21%, but reducing grain Zn concentrations of other cultivars by as much as 14%. In comparison, foliar Zn application increased grain Zn concentrations by 26 to 115%. Grain Zn concentrations were 14% larger in the combined (foliar Zn + soil Zn) treatment compared to the foliar Zn treatment, but the added cost of soil Zn application may not be economically justifiable. Wheat grain phytic acid concentrations and phytic acid: Zn molar ratios were less in the foliar Zn and (foliar Zn + soil Zn) treatments compared to the soil Zn and the unfertilized treatments. This indicated that foliar Zn increased Zn bioavailability. Best results were obtained when foliar Zn was applied at early grain filling. Overall, these findings indicate that foliar Zn application to Zn-efficient cultivars could reduce human Zn deficiency in regions with potentially Zn-deficient soil.
23783938|Based on the studies of production factors the shoot development of red fescue is characterized as follows: 1. The level of nutrient supply is determinant from the point of view of promotion of shoot development and improvement of shoot ratio. The highest increase in number of shoots was reached by the NPK treatment followed by NP, NK, N, PK, P and K treatments. 2. Among the agents analyzed the effect of nitrogen was the most expressed. The number of shoots was significant up to the level of 180 kg/ha N effective agent. Higher amounts of N-fertilizer (270 kg/ha) did not increase significantly the number of fertile shoots, moreover, in the first productive year they decreased the number of fertile shoots. 3. The effect of phosphorus and potassium fertilizers is not so expressed as that of the nitrogen fertilizer. 4. Based on the average of the three-year period and all the other factors, the effectiveness of nitrogen fertilizer treatment applied in two doses (1/3 early autumn, 2/3 the end of winter, or the beginning of spring) was significantly higher (P = 55 %) than that of the same amount of fertilizer applied in one and three doses. 5. The number of fertile shoots increased significantly if the stand density had been increased (drill sowing with 15 cm row spacing). 6. The favorable water supply (rainfall + irrigation) increased significantly (12.15 %) the number of fertile shoots of red fescue. Although the effect of water supply was more moderate concerning the number and type of shoots as compared to the nitrogen fertilizer. 7. The results also show that the direct effect of yield components is decisive in the development of seed yield.
90002677|The effect of five N top-dressing rates (0, 50, 100, 100+50, 100+100 kg ha
23782959|The combining ability analysis in a 10  10 diallel revealed the presence of both additive as well as non-additive gene effects for harvest index, biological yield, grain yield, plant height and tillers per plant. However, degree of dominance confirmed the preponderance of non-additive gene effects for all these traits. Based on g c a and per se performance, BH 36 appeared to be the best whereas BH 38, BH 31 and DL 247 were desirable for harvest index and one or more components of grain yield. These parents also figured to yield crosses with high specific combining ability effects. A high positive correlation was observed between harvest index and grain yield. Results are discussed in light of their importance in barley breeding.
23780386|Phosphorylase activity was much higher both in developing triticale grain as well as in mature kernels of F1 population obtained from triticale x wheat crosses compared to wheat. The mature kernels of F1 population exhibited shrunken character to varying degrees. The lower degree of shrivelling appeared to be associated with the higher phosphorylase activity whereas the highly shrunken character with the low starch biosynthesis as well. This low starch biosynthesis in highly shrunken grain appear to be the result of some limitation in biosynthetic system in these grains, since the percentage of free sugar in them was higher irrespective of the phosphorylase activity. Partially shrunken rather than highly shrunken character being presently the main problem with triticales, it is suggested that lowering of phosphorylase level to that in wheat, or alternatively, the incorporation of the length character of triticale kernel into wheat, which already possesses low phosphorylase activity and good grain width,is expected to result in improved grain types.
23786229|Aqueous extracts of leaves of Ocimum gratissimum, Acalypha ciliata, Vernonia amyygdalina, Mangifera indica and Azadirachta indica were evaluated for the control Fusarium moniliforme on seeds of maize (Zea mays). The seeds were soaked sterile distilled water in 10, 20, and 30% (W/V) for 12, 24 and 48hr. All the plant extracts had significant inhibitory growth effect on the fungal pathogen. Acalypha ciliata extract was more effective than other plant extracts and compared favorably with benomyl in the control of the pathogen.
90002842|The objective of the current field study was to examine the effect of nitrogen (N) application (0-N
23786190|A set of European obsolete wheat cultivars and landraces was evaluated using molecular markers. Three primer pairs were used to amplify LMW-GS coding sequences. To enrich the current gene-pool, modern Czech wheat cultivars were used for the assessment of the potential of old genotypes. Thirty-eight amplification products of different sizes were recorded across the evaluated landraces and cultivars. Specific PCR profiles were amplified for each obsolete cultivar and landrace and for all evaluated modern Czech cultivars. Analysis revealed differences between modern and obsolete cultivars and landraces in the representation of LMW-GS alleles. High variability was found within evaluated obsolete cultivars and landraces. Sufficient evidence has been gained to suggest that obsolete cultivars and landraces can represent a source of alternative LMW-GS alleles for the wheat breeding programs.
23790357|Among the progenies of crossing Triticum turgidum  Haynaldia villosa amphiploid with synthetic hexaploid wheat (T. carthlicum / Aegilops tauschii) Am3, two lines (SN030713 and SN05078), with good resistance to stripe rust and powdery mildew, were developed. Cytological studies demonstrated that SN030713 contained 42 chromosomes and formed 21 bivalents at meiotic metaphase I. SN05078 contained 28 chromosomes and formed 14 bivalents. Genomic in situ hybridization analysis using H. villosa V genomic DNA as the probe showed SN030713 and SN05078 had no large H. villosa chromosome fragments. PCR analysis with H. villosa specific primer pHv29 showed that H. villosa genetic materials were introgressed in these two lines. SSR analysis indicated that the genomic composition of SN030713 was 2n = 6x = 42 (AABBDD), and SN05078 was 2n = 4x = 28 (AABB). Introgressed Ae. tauschii genetic materials in SN05078 were also detected.
90002879|Eastern Croatia is important area for maize seed production where parental components of single-cross maize hybrids are more susceptible to environmental stress compared with their hybrid progeny. Aim of this study was to determine yield response of nine commercial female parents of maize hybrids in seed production to two different soil types (loess and eutric cambisol) in two years. Average seed yield of nine maize inbred lines was significantly highest on loess soil in 2006. In 2007 though, due to extreme drought and heat, yield on this location was reduced on more than a half of previous year. On contrast, there was no significant difference between years for yield on eutric cambisol. Preliminary results for mineral status of phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) in ear-leaf and seed showed that there was no variation among inbred lines for these traits within and among location(s) in 2006 indicating that soil type did not affect concentrations of P and K in plants. Extreme dry and hot weather during summer of 2007 had notably less effect on seed yield on eutric cambisol than on loess soil. It suggests that eutric cambisol appears to be more appropriate soil type for seed production of maize due to more stable seed yields.
23786268|F1 hybrids of different varieties of T. durum and T. aestivum with the amphidiploid T. durum/Agr. elongatum as well as a trigeneric hybrid combining the genomes of T. durum, Agr. elongatum and Dasypyrum villosum were obtained. The crossing ability and viability of hybrid seeds, the percentage of obtained hybrid plants and their fertility which showed a genotypic dependence were determined. The sterility of the trigeneric hybrid was overcome by backcrossing with one of the parents. A cytological analysis in MI and in diakinesis of F1 hybrids of T. durum and of the trigeneric hybrid was carried out and the possibility, although small, for the involvement in homeologous pairing of V and E chromosomes in a wheat medium was established.
23783033|It is shown that the type of plant development and the length of vegetation period is not conditioned by vernalization but they are due to differences in lines reaction of plants in the tillering phase.
90002902|The need for sustainable rural development is widely recognised and acknowledged as the European social goal. Such concept implies certain mechanisms and procedures that will assure implementation of landscape, environment and nature protection demands. This paper presents an approach for reconciliation of conflicting interests between development and protection from the planning perspective. The methodological approach of suitability modelling is presented in a case study of land-use planning process for a typical rural area of continental Croatia, the area of Samobor-Zumberacko Gorje. The suitability models were developed for a type of rural tourism  family estate, frequently listed in agro-environment programmes for similar areas. Suitability maps allowed the identification of both conflicting interests to be located in space. Such models are relevant tool for representation of spatial potentials and possible degradations due to a landscape change as well as society's diversified interests and can be a promising starting point for a process of resolving conflicts and reaching the best possible consensus on future land use in rural areas.
23779259|High phosphorylase and low starch synthetase activities appear to be associated with shrunken character, while high phosphorylase activity per se appears to be associated with partial shrivelling character in the grain of barley genotypes.
23787282|The influence of inoculation with Fusarium culmorum (W.G.Sm.) Sac. on yield performance of 2-rowed and 6-rowed barley doubled haploid (DH) lines was studied in a 3-year field experiment. The following traits were analysed: kernel number and weight per ear, 1000-kernel weight, percentage of plump kernels (>2.5 mm) and germination rate. The inoculated lines were compared with the control using univariate and multivariate statistical methods. It was found that mean values of the studied traits were significantly reduced as a result of infection. The reduction was greater for 6-rowed lines than for 2-rowed lines. The inoculation with F. culmorum resulted in a decrease in differences between 2-rowed and 6-rowed genotypes, especially in the case of kernel weight per ear. No positive transgression in relation to the whole complex of yield traits was observed in any of the studied lines.
23782845|Genetic analysis of a diallel series of crosses, involving 8 genotypes of winter wheat, including reciprocals, is described. The combining ability analysis showed that the variances of both, general and specific combining ability (GCA and SCA, respectively), are highly significant in F1 for seed protein content. The best general combiner for the investigated character was the cultivar Atlas 66, wich had also the highest mean value in this experiment. Among the mutant lines used in experiment, the best general combiner was line 310/8.
23779352|Combining ability studies for the seven characters, viz, grain yield per plant, spikes per plant, spikelets per spike, grains per spike, spike length, plant height and peduncle length in F1 diallel cross involving 11 genetically diverse varieties/lines are reported. The variances due to general combining ability were significant for all the measured characters while the specific combining ability variances were significant only for grain yield, spike length, plant height and peduncle length. The specific combining ability component of variance($\sigma^{2}_{s}$) was higher than that of the general combining ability component of variance ($\sigma^{2}_{g}$) only for grain yield per plant indicating greater role of non-additive gene effects in the inheritance of this characteristic. However, the magnitude of o2 was higher than that of o2 for spikes per plant, spikelets per spike, grains per spike, spike length peduncle length suggesting suggesting greater role of additive gene effects in the inheritance of these attributes. Inrat 4793 and PIc 's' - Cr 's' were the best general combinero for grain yield and various other attributes. The cross combinations Ganso 's' x Siglawi, D 21563 gr 's' x Inrat 4793, Ganso 's' x Garza and Tildillo x Gaviota having recorded reasonably high s.c.a. effects for grain yield and various other attributes offer the best possibilities of exploitation in the Indian durum breeding programmes. In view of almost equal role of additive and non-additive gene effects in the inheritance of different economic traits, the adoption of recurrent selection approach for the development of high yielding durum lines is advocated.
90003438|One of the most important roles of soil tillage, especially conventional one, based on mouldboard ploughing, is the control of biotic factors, among them weed control. Research of influence of different soil tillage treatments on weed population in winter wheat crop has been undertaken at chernozem soil type in Eastern Croatia, during four years (2002-2005), with very different weather patterns. Eight soil tillage treatments, different in intensity of depth and frequency of soil tillage operations, were applied for winter wheat crop, in crop rotation after soybean. For each crop, four treatments had continuous soil tillage system (CT: mouldboard ploughing tillage, DH: disk harrowing tillage, CT: chiselling tillage and NT: no-till) and another four treatments had discontinuous soil tillage system (conventional tillage for one crop, and disk harrowing or no-tillage for another crop, where applied conventional systems for winter wheat were CWDS and CwNs, diskharrowing in CSDW and No-till in CsNw). Applied herbicides showed very high effectiveness for all soil tillage treatments. In droughty season 2003/04, in comparison with seasons 2001/02 and 2004/05, number of weed species (2.03, 3.19 and 2.78 weed species m
23782810|Two hybrid combinations between Ae.comosa and T. turgidum were obtained. They were similar to each other morphologically and showed intermediate characteristics between their parents. The reciprocal combination T. turgidum var. dicoccoides  Ae. comosa had already been described by other workers.
23790367|The Avenin-like gene (EU096532) was cloned from Aegilops biuncialis (2n = 4X, UUMM) in our previously study, the encoded gluten protein contained 19 cysteine residues, much more than that in all other glutenin subunits characterized so far. In present study, the protein was expressed in E. coli in large scale and purified in high purity through His-binding affinity chromatography. The purified protein was simply added or incorporated into a base flour and conducted with a 2 g Mixograph in order to investigate the functional properties including mixing time (MT), peak dough resistance (PR) and breakdown in resistance (RBD). Both 10 mg and 15 mg Avenin-like protein could cause significant increases in MT and PR, and decrease in RBD, compared to the control, when incorporated into dough. But the latter showed larger effect on functional properties. Size exclusion high-performance liquid chromatography (SE-HPLC) analysis confirmed that Avenin-like protein was chemically incorporated into polymeric subunits by intermolecular disulphide bonds.
23787564|Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is a major field crop grown worldwide. Field research was undertaken at ICARDA's (International Center for Agriculture Research in Dry Area) main station in Northwest Syria to evaluate barley doubled haploid (DH) and mutants lines for agronomic traits (grain yield, plant height and days to heading) and resistance to scald (Rhynchosporium secalis) under natural infection conditions for two consecutive years. Significant differences were found among lines in the percentage of infected leaf area. However, they exhibited a continuous range of response from very susceptible to resistant. Seven lines had significantly lower percentage of infected leaf area with disease than did the other lines, which are associated with potential for grain yield and earliness. These lines could be considered as possible donors in further barley breeding programs.
23787253|High molecular weight (HMW) glutenin subunits of Glu-A1 locus from 15 different accessions from four wild Triticum species, two diploid (T. urartu and T. boeoticum) and two tetraploid (T. dicoccoides and T. araraticum) have been transferred to T. durum cv. PBW34 lacking Glu-A1 subunits through backcross breeding and half seed analysis using SDS-PAGE. Results showed that transfer of subunits from Glu-A1 locus has significant effect on processing and nutritional quality of T. durum derivatives. The transfer of both Ax and Ay subunits from two accessions of T. urartu into T. durum cv. PBW34 resulted in significant increase in gluten strength as indicated by sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) sedimentation value (45 to 61 ml) with an average increase of 41.2 per cent over T. durum cv. PBW34. The mean increase in SDS-sedimentation values of T. durum derivatives carrying Glu-A1 alleles from different accessions of T. boeoticum, T. dicoccoides and T. araraticum was 37.1, 36.6 and 27.1 per cent, respectively. The Glu-A1 subunits also increased the protein content of the durum derivatives on an average by 24.3 per cent against the recurrent durum parent. The work to recover the recurrent T. durum background completely and to transfer the novel HMW-glutenin subunits to T. aestivum cultivar PBW343 is in progress.
90003387|Based on the data of meteorological conditions and morphological measurements on spring grass growth, the purpose of this paper is to analyze the effects of some climatic variables on grass growth and development as well as to search correlation between climatic conditions and grass growth. Two years quite different climatic conditions were selected for the investigations. Spring weather in 2006 was extremely rainy, ordinary warm and cloudy. In contrast with that 2007 was a bit rainy, extremely warm and very sunny. Growth and development of bromegrass were significantly different in the investigation years. More favourable conditions had positive effects not only on the size of plant parts but on the differentiation of these plant parts as well. Regression analysis showed different correlation between independent climatic variables and phenological traits of bromegrass during primary growth in both years. Strong positive correlations were found between annual rainfall, annual temperature sum, annual sum of sunny hours as independent variables and extended shoot height (ESH), number of leaves developed (NL), number of dead leaves (NDL) as dependent variables. Other morphological traits, number of active leaves per shoot and sum of active leaf lamina lengths responded differently to climatic variables. It is concluded that the vegetative growth (size of plant parts) is more influenced by existing weather conditions than development of new shoots (tiller bud differentiation).
23782843|The breeding materials used were the F3, F4 and F5 populations of the cross Giza 155  Sonora 64 to study the efficiency of two types of selection indices, independent culling levels and direct selection for grain yield/ plant, plant height, spike length and heading date. Significant differences among F3 families were obtained for all the studied traits. The results of the realized genetic gains after two cycles of selection indicated that the desired gain selection index of 4 traits (DG4) was the best selection method in improving grain yield (14.5%) followed by DG7 (12.9%), direct selection for grain yield/plant (12.9%), DG5, Smith-Hazel index of 7 traits (5.2%), and independent culling levels (4.1%). Single trait selection was an efficient method in improving selection criterion, but it was accompanied with undesirable correlated response in other traits. Generally, the desired gain index was the most effective selection method in improving grain yield and correlated traits in these material. Sufficient genetic variability in grain yield among the F5 families was remained for further cycles of selection for all methods except direct selection for spike length.
23781322|Six generations, P1, P2, F1, B1, B2 and F2 of two crosses between Indian and Mexican wheats were used in estimation of gene effects for grain protein content. Significant epistasis was absent in both the crosses. Dominance effect was also non-significant. Both the crosses showed significant additive gene effects. In the light of these findings breeding procedure aimed at developing wheat varieties with high protein has been discussed.
90003156|Type I resistance is a significant and powerful resistance component. Spraying inoculation covers reactions to both Type I and Type II. A significant synergetic effect was detected between Type I and Type II QTLs. It seems that Type I resistance at present cannot be directly measured, only as a difference between point and spraying inoculation. However, this does not influence the success of the selection. For breeding the spraying methodology is more suitable as it considers much wider genetic background than the point inoculation does. The highest resistance in the Szeged program was achieved by the use of exotic spring wheat sources in winter wheat, but excellent agronomy types were identified at a relative low ratio. Good or excellent resistance can be identified at a low rate in breeding material without exotic FHB resistance sources, but their agronomy value is much better. Ratio of high resistance is frequent in winter wheat lines created form winter and spring wheat resistance sources. An efficient phenotypic selection is inevitable. Repeatability of the test is generally good or excellent; LSD values are normally less than 10 % of the variation width. FDK and toxin measurements are integrant part of the program since 35 and 20 years, respectively. Several methodical considerations are discussed.
23781475|Dry weight and total protein content have been compared in developing, mature and germinating T.aestivum, T.turgidum and T.monococcum grains. Fractionation in different solubility class and characterization by SDS-PAGE of proteins of flour samples indicated a close relationship among synthesis, accumulation and degradation of storage proteins during two physiological periods of maturation and germination of wheat grains.
23789869|An interspecies zygote derives after wheat x maize crosses. This zygote aborts in absence of auxin stimulation. Treatment with dicamba is widely used to promote wheat haploid embryo development. We analyzed the effect of dicamba on wheat haploid embryo development. Four treatments related to the time of dicamba treatment were carried out: 1 day before pollination and 1, 5 and 9 days after pollination. It was concluded that wheat haploid embryos developed only in spikes treated with dicamba one or five days after pollination with maize. Dicamba treatment of wheat spikes prior to pollination hinders zygote formation and embryo development. Dicamba treatment 9 days after pollination is too late because young embryos have already aborted.
90002831|Young plants of maize, cv. Anjou 245, exposed to gradual drying-up of soil retained a high RWC (84  89 %), virtually at the level of non-stressed plants, for 3 through 12 days (3  12 d) after interruption of irrigation. However, stomatal limitation of the photosynthesis rate (P
23783058|Fifteen cultivars of spring barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) were grown at Ottawa in 1982 and 1983 in order to examine the rate and duration of kernel filling. Cultivars differed significantly in rate and duration of kernel filling indicating that genetic variation existed in these genotypes. Generally, two-rowed cultivars had longer vegetative periods and shorter duration of kernel filling than six-rowed cultivars. When the growth period was measured by number of calendar days, both vegetative growth period and duration of kernel filling decreased from 1982 to 1983, and rate of kernel filling also decreased for two-rowed but not for six-rowed cultivars. When the growth period was measured by the numbers of growing degree-days, both vegetative growth period and duration of kernel filling increased from 1982 to 1983, but rate of kernel filling decreased for both types. Rate and duration of kernel filling were not genetically associated in these genotypes indicating that simultaneous selection for high kernel filling rate and short duration appeared to be possible. The high phenotypic correlation between KF rate and kernel weight suggesting that selection for high kernel filling rate through selection for high kernel weight is possible.
23779088|One hundred fifteen varieties of spring wheat,18 of winter wheat, 7 of Triticale and 11 of rye, were tested for tolerance to acidity and Al-toxicity in nutrion solution at pH concentration of 4 ppm. The lenght and dry matter of roots and shoots were determined after 3 weeks of growth and compared with control seedlings grown at pH 6,9 without Al.Spring wheat varieties were classified into three groups: very sensitive to Al - with highly reduced growth of roots and shoots,sensitive - with highly reduced growth of roots but much less affected growth of shoots, and medium tolerant -with moderate inhibition of root growth and no effect on shoot growth. Rye strains appeared to be very tolerant under these conditions and Triticale showed medium tolerance.
23779179|Tho interrelationship of yield and its component characters was studied both by correlation and path-coefficient analysis, using different generations of the 6  6 and the 10  10 diallels. Grain-straw ratio and plant height were strongly correlated with grain yield. Higher grain-straw ratio, shorter plant height and earlier heading time indicated higher yield. Panicle length and flag leaf size were less important for yield.
23792374|A collection of new and obsolete Iranian bread wheat cultivars were characterized for gliadins using acid polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (A-PAGE). Extensive polymorphism (H) = 0.734 in gliadin patterns was found. A total of 26 band patterns including 13, 8 and 5 different mobility bands were identified, in the zones of -,  + - and -gliadins, respectively. There were a few patterns specific to each region and some were common among all the regions. Patterns of -gliadin C,  + -gliadins A, and -gliadins H, C and E patterns were significantly higher in temperate and tropical zones.  + -gliadin C and -gliadin Q were significantly higher in Caspian-cold regions. Variation was observed in gliadins patterns of cultivars grown in different regions in Iran. Individual cultivars showed unique gliadin fingerprints. There were larger variation in - and  + -gliadins than in -gliadins. These results may provide complementary information for relating genetic diversity, and quality characterization of Iranian wheat cultivars.
23785403|Bikaverin was examined for the respiration-impairing effect, using isolated rat liver mitochondria and submitochondrial particles (SMP). It was concluded that bikaverin repressed both NAD- and succinate-linked respirations at low concentrations, and uncoupled oxidative phosphorylation in consequence of the lysis (swelling) of inner mitochondrial membranes of high concentrations.
90003046|The present investigation was undertaken to examine the influence of the different nitrogen sources on the
90002692|Recent land use changes in some specific areas in Hungary has generated good conditions for the milkweed (
23783109|The formation of synthetic karyotype was studied in tetraploid triticale and was found be characterized by: a different rate at which homoeologous groups were stabilized; selection against "heterozygotes"; the effect exerted by the chromosomal constitution of some homoeologous groups on the stabilization rate of other groups. The selection occurs at the level of homoeologues, the selective advantages of which are determined by genotype-environment interactions. This renders possible to accomplish directed synthesis of tetraploid triticale with a specified chromosomal constitution.
23783838|Twelve basic generations, namely, P1, P2, F1, F2, B1, B2, B1s, B2s, B11, B12, B21, and B22 of three crosses involving six diverse cultivars of durum wheat were studied under normal and late sown conditions to understand the nature of gene effects for grain yield. The 10-parameter model was adequate in most of the cases to account for the variability in generation means under both the environments. Of the epistatic effects, trigenic interactions were invariably more important than other gene effects in the genetic control of yielding ability in durum wheat. Additive X additive X dominance (x) and dominance X dominance X dominance (z) epistatic effects were contributed maximum than other effects towards significant heterosis. The non-allelic interactions particularly at three gene level were predominant for this trait. Thus, a breeding method that can mop-up the genes to form superior gene constellations interacting in a favourable manner would be more suitable to accelerate the pace of its genetic improvement.
23787239|High plant regeneration was obtained from embryogenic callus induced from immature embryos of pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum L.), cv RIB 20-K-86 cultured on MS medium supplemented with pCPA (5 mg/l). On pCPA supplemented medium callus could be retained well without any loss of regeneration potential for several months. Best growth and maintenance of embryogenic state of callus was achieved on MS medium supplemented with pCPA (2 mg/l). For plant regeneration embryogenic callus was transferred to MS medium supplemented with IAA (1 mg/l) and Kn (0.5 mg/l). Regenerated plants were rooted on half strength MS medium. Regenerated plants were transferred to field conditions were they matured and set seeds. Seeds were collected for somaclonal variation studies in the subsequent generations.
90003485|Due to development of technology and urbanization environmental pollution has become an increasingly severe problem. Heavy metals, which cause potential danger for organisms, are one of the best known abiotic stress factors. Parameters of sediments influence stress effects, which put pressure on plants. Samplings were taken from such areas, which are covered by water in rainy periods but in dry periods when the water level decreases terrestrial plants can appear periodically. During the experiment seed germination tests were applied and abiotic stress effects of heavy metals in sediments on plants were studied. Relationships between concentration of organic matter and metal content of sediments were also studied. Results were evaluated statistically. Between the metal content and the organic matter of sediments positive correlation was found, which means that effects of abiotic stress factors depend on organic matter content as well. The quantity and quality of sediments, shaking period and concentration of sediment suspensions influence abiotic stress factors, which have conspicuous effects on plants. Due to our results it can be established that the more the quantity of the sediments are and the longer period they are shaken, the better the ability of the sediments is to buffer the phytotoxic effect of heavy metals, thus heavy metals as stress factors, which influence plant growth, have less effects. Inactivation of heavy metals is presumed by adsorption.
90003436|Heavy soils are characterized by high content of clay minerals. This minerals cause at the changing of soil moisture the changes of the soil volume. Shrinking of soil profile occurs during the drying process. Thereby double domain structure is created. This double domain structure consists of soil matrix and cracks. There is maximum volume of cracks during time series of vegetal periods of years 1970-2007 quantified in submitted report. Maximum volumes of cracks are quantified in terms of soil moisture and soil-moisture constants. Probability of their occurrence is executed in form of empirical and theoretical excedance curve (
23786851|Fusarium ear blight can produce considerable quantitative and qualitative damage in wheat. Investigations in Germany from 1987 to 1995 and in France since 1995 showed an increased incidence of Fusarium spp.. Epidemiological studies demonstrated the complexity of the biology of fusarium diseases and the difficulty of optimising the timing of fungicide applications. Nevertheless, products containing tebuconazole proved highly effective in terms of disease and mycotoxin reduction, yield increase and improved baking performance.
23789847|Although immature embryos are the most suitable explants to regenerate cereals, their limited availability throughout the year hampers frequent experimentation. In order to circumvent this problem, endosperm-supported mature embryos, which are available throughout the year, are proposed for utilization in cereal tissue culture studies. In the present study, the effect of seed size on in vitro seed germination, seedling growth, callus induction and plant regeneration, as well as the relationships between these parameters, were investigated in three barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genotypes. Seeds were designated as large or small for each genotype and seed germinations were achieved in Petri dishes between two sheets of pre-wetted filter paper. Germination percentages of seeds, seedling growth rates, shoot and root lengths, and seedling fresh and dry weights were examined. Mature embryos from imbibed and dehulled seeds were aseptically moved slightly with a scalpel. For callus induction, 8 mg 11 2,4-D dissolved in water, and for plant regeneration, hormone-free MS medium, was utilized. Highest values with respect to seed germination percentage, seedling growth, callus induction and plant regeneration were obtained using large seeds. Rooting of regenerated shoots and plantlet recovery were also successfully achieved. Based on the significant positive correlations observed between all parameters, we concluded that cultures derived from endosperm-supported mature embryos within large seeds should be employed for achieving superior tissue culture response.
23786143|Polymorphisms, deletions and translocations have been identified in some of the Chinese Spring nullisomic-tetrasomic and ditelosomic lines. In this paper, we present a comprehensive overview of the status of these materials.
23790024|Barley-infecting isolates of WDV were collected in the field of near Sofia. The complete genomes of two isolates were amplified by PCR, cloned into pGEM-T plasmid and sequenced. The two clones were the same size and showed complete homology. The WDV-Bg17 clone was compared with Barley dwarf virus, Oat dwarf virus and Wheat dwarf virus isolates. Based on DNA sequences WDV-Bg17 isolate shows high homology (9597%) to Barley dwarf virus isolates and differs from Oat dwarf virus (71% homology) and Wheat dwarf virus (85% homology).
23787587|In this study elevated temperature effects on protein quality parameters and in particular on protein sulfhydryl-disulfide contents were assessed. Four Italian durum wheat cultivars which differed for the qualitative trait changes produced by heat stress were employed. During grain filling two different thermal regimes were imposed on the plants grown in a typical area of durum wheat cultivation (Southern Italy). Results confirmed significant effects of high temperatures on the quality of products in the durum wheat chain and indicated that elevated temperatures determined changes on protein redox status, particularly evident on S-S bond content. For most of the examined traits significant cultivar x treatment interactions were also evidenced.
23788187|The presence of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) elements in Fusarium culmorum and F. graminearum isolates of different origin, and the possible effect of these elements on pathogenicity and toxing production of the isolates were examined. Altogether 40 F. culmorum and 38 F. graminearum isolates were involved in this study, together with F. cerealis and F. pseudograminearum strains. Double-stranded RNA elements indicative of mycovirus infection were detected for the first time in 5 F. culmorum isolates. The isolates originated from the United States, The Netherlands, Australia and Israel. The dsRNA nature of the fragments was proved by RNase, DNase and S1 nuclease treatments. The sizes of the dsRNA elements varied between 0.6-3.95 kbp. A dsRNA element of 3.0 kbp in size was also detected in a F. graminearum isolate came from South Africa. None of the Central-European isolates examined were found to carry such elements. We also examined the mycotoxin producing abilities and pathogenicity of the dsRNA infected isolates. Four of the mycovirus infected F. culmorum isolates produced deoxynivalenol and zearalenone (chemotype I), while one of the isolates came from the USA produced nivalenol and fusarenone X (chemotype II). The dsRNA-containing F. graminearum isolate produced deoxynivalenol and zearalenone. In general, dsRNA-containing isolates were found to be as pathogenic to two wheat cultivars as dsRNA free isolates. RAPD analysis and sequence analysis of a putative reductase gene fragment indicated that dsRNA-containing isolates are scattered among dsRNA free isolates. Further work is in progress in our laboratory to characterize these dsRNA elements by sequence analysis.
90003299|Nitrogen (N) application around anthesis is currently an important management practice in wheat production in Japan to increase grain protein content, especially for bread-making wheat. To determine the effect of N application at anthesis on FHB and mycotoxin accumulation, we conducted greenhouse experiments and field experiments using two bread-making cultivars in Japan. In all experiments, N application at anthesis led to a significant increase in grain protein, but had no significant effect on the levels of FHB and mycotoxin content in grain. These results suggest that N application at anthesis to obtain a high grain protein content does not significantly affect FHB and mycotoxin content in the bread-making cultivars.
23782928|Relationships between semolina color indices (yellow: SYI, brown: SBI) and some chemical components as well as oxidative enzyme activities of semolina were studied in seven durum wheats. Semolina carotene content is found to be highly correlated with SYI (r=0.88***) and SBI (r=0.45*). High semolina peroxidase (SPO) and polyphenoloxidase (SPPO) activities resulted in a decreased SYI (r=0.78* and 0.93**, respectively). High SBI is associated with higher values of semolina ash content (r=0.51**), SPO activity (r=0.96***) and semolina protein content (r=0.60**). Carotene processing loss is strongly affected by semolina ash content (r= 0.91**). Milling and processing cause considerable losses of oxidative enzyme activities in grain and semolina, respectively. Selection of varieties with high endosperm carotene content, low oxidative enzyme activities and little sacrifying of semolina yield during milling as well as drying of macaroni at high temperature will lead to improved macaroni color.
23786110|Characterization of visco-elastic properties of hard wheat flours by a conventional mixograph can be limited by complicated and time-consuming analysis that is subject to operator judgement. This study describes a novel approach to conventional instrument computerization/modification compared to previous methods. A 10-g mixograph was retrofitted with a no-contact electronic sensor and Microsoft Excel (version 7.0 for Windows 95) was used to develop a software program for mixogram curve analysis. Ten different HRS wheat varieties were interpreted by electronic analysis (software and digital mixogram) and by hand (operator and analog mixogram). The correlation coefficients between both methods were 0.993, 0.987 and 0.961 for mixing time, height, and developing angle respectively. Comparisons were also made to a commercially available mixograph analyzer program made by TMCO (Lincoln, Nebraska) which also utilizes no-contact sensor technology (proprietary) with both reporting similar reproducibility in the data output for replicated curve analyses.
23779107|Twenty barley genotypes including high lysine and high protein genotypes and commercial varieties have been compared for grain protein content, lysine content and grain size. Protein content, which ranged from 10.3 - 15% was negatively correlated with percent lysine in protein and with grain weight. Ris 1508 was higher in percent lysine in protein than all other genotypes and Hiproly was higher in percent lysine in protein than all high protein (> 13.5%) genotypes.
23789312|Avena macrostachya is a perennial, autotetraploid oat. In its natural habitat it has a high degree of winter hardiness. The objective of this experiment was to screen 53 backcross progenies of an interspecific cross between the cultivar Brooks (A. sativa) and A. macrostachya using a controlled freezing test. No entry tested was more freezing tolerant than the recurrent parent Brooks. These results indicated that freeze tolerance from A. macrostachya had not been introgressed into the progeny. It was suggested that the mechanism for winter hardiness in A. macrostachya is different from that in A. sativa and may involve an escape mechanism rather than a genetically controlled freezing resistance mechanism.
23788061|One hundred and sixty Pakistani Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare accessions were analyzed for genetic diversity on the basis of hordein, seed storage proteins. In total we have analyzed 7 Hor-1, 12 Hor-2 and 5 Hor-3 alleles for three hordein loci in barley accessions on SDS-PAGE. Out of 24 polymorphic alleles, three rare alleles (Hor 3.1, Hor 2.1, Hor 1.1) were detected. Abundant genetic variability was observed in Pakistani barley accessions for hordein loci. Genetic similarities calculated for all pair wise comparisons of H. vulgare accessions were used to form 83 banding patterns that represent the core collections of Pakistan, which included 50 unique patterns. Multivariate analysis conducted to generate similarity matrix using Jaccard's coefficient (Jaccard, 1908) to estimate relatedness and divergence among 160 accessions ranged from 0.11 to 1.00, representing high level of genetic variability. Clustering was carried out to determine genetic diversity among the core collections that clustered them into three major clusters. In this study genetic diversity for cultivated barley belonging to different regions of Pakistan were in the order of Punjab> Balochistan> Northern Area> Sindh> A.J.K> N.W.F.P.
90002999|Canola, an important oil crop in Hungary, has a high N requirement. The objective of present work was to determine the influence of N fertilization on the growth parameters of young canola in the autumn period, grown on two different (calcareous chernozem and calcareous sandy) soils.
90002877|Small-plot comparative trials with registered winter wheat varieties have been doing from 1994 at Kroly Rbert College, Tass-puszta Modell Farm. The field trial is designed in random block in 4 replications. Among other things we examined winter hardiness, lodging resistance, plant height of varieties. We measured amount of grain yield, thousand-seed weight, weight of one hectolitre. In this work I presented the results of medium varieties in 2003-2005 years. I found significant variance between results of the experimental years and varieties owing to the different amount and distribution of precipitation mainly. I arranged the studied varieties into four groups on basis of their adaptability to climatic and soil conditions of the area. I can recommend those varieties to grow at Mtra Region, which can give the best results in favourable and unfavourable conditions too. Based on my experiences theese varieties are: Buzogny, Rna, MF Kazal, GK Petur).
23782908|Small grain production under reduced tillage conditions is becoming more common in many parts of the world including in the Pacific Northwest of the United States, where soil erosion is a serious problem. In this study, ten genotypes originally selected under a conventional tillage system with diverse backgrounds and characteristics were sown under conventional, minimum and no-tillage conditions in 1981 and 1982. Genotypes varied for most traits studied. Tillage affected yield both years and percent stand in 1982. Tillage did not affect volume weight, percent plump kernels or plant height. There was no genotype x tillage interaction for any trait studied in either year or both years combined. There were strong year and genotype effects and genotype x year and tillage x year interactions for yield. The tillage effect on yield was opposite for the two years. Yields were 1.8, 2.0, and 2.5 t/ha in 1981 and were 3.4, 3.3, and 2.9 t/ha in 1982 for conventional, minimum and no-tillage, respectively. Relatively droughty conditions of 1981 favored reduced tillage plots. Cooler, wetter conditions in 1982 favored the conventionally tilled plots. The ten genotypes examined had wide adaptation to alternative tillage systems. It appears that under relatively warm, dry conditions reduced tillage to conserve soil, water and energy can be practiced to satisfactorily produce conventionally developed cultivars of spring barley.
90002682|The effect of farmyard manure and mineral fertiliser on the dynamics of dry matter production and leaf area index was studied for three years (20052007) in a long-term continuous maize experiment set up on the active agent equivalence principle. The most favourable dry matter production and leaf area index dynamics were recorded for high rates of NPK fertiliser in wet years and for farmyard manure in dry years.
90003464|Water storage in the soil aeration zone is water resource for the soil vegetation cover. This water storage differs by from free water its properties. To utilize this stored water vegetation has to have a well developed root system with such suction pressure as to be able to surmount the bond of water with the soil. Energetic bond of water to soil is quantified by the moisture retention curve. Its characteristic points are: field water capacity (FWC), point of decreased accessibility (PDA), and wilting point (WP). These characteristics determine water accessibility for the vegetation root system. Time course of water in the soil aeration zone can be determined by direct monitoring. Comparison of its values with characteristic points determines the state of water supply storage for vegetation. Its critical state for vegetation cover corresponds to the wilting point. Storage drop to this point causes the state of drought, and the vegetation decay, as a consequence. In the presented paper, results are described of the monitored water, stored in two soil types in localities around Hurbanovo (Slovakia) community, and their evaluation with respect to critical state for the vegetation cover. Moisture measurements with respect to water storage were performed by the weighing (gravimetric) method, as well as by the TDR method.
23785236|Nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizer requirements for wheat (Triticum vulgare L.) usually change in different rotations. In this paper we develop nitrogen and phosphorus recommendations for wheat in the Yaqui Valley in Northern Mxico, based on a long term rotation experiment conducted at CIANO (Northwest Agricultural Experimental Center) from 1978 to 1983. The evaluation involved the five most common crop sequences. Grain yield variation was described by four response models with various levels of complexity (quadratic, quadratic plus plateau, sine and exponential). Most of the models fit the data equally well when evaluated using the R-square criterion, but there were marked discrepancies between the exponential model and the other models when predicting economic optimum rates of Nitrogen. Mean (across years) economic optimum rates for the wheat-wheat crop sequence (the most common) ranged from 156 to 203 kg N ha1 at a two-to-one fertilizer-to-wheat price ratio. The quadratic plus plateau model (when it is possible to fit it) tended to indicate the smallest optimal rates of fertilization and the exponential model the largest. The results show that fertilizer recommendations can be very dependent on choice of model, even when the data on which they are based do not contain the information needed to make a model choice.
23787659|In general, wheat and maize yields in the Brod-Posavina County (BPC) were about 15% lower (10-year means 1981-1990) in comparison with their yields in the region. Wheat yield variations in the region among the years were higher in comparison with maize yield. For example, the highest yield of wheat and maize were higher than the lowest yield for 61% and 34%, respectively. Analogic comparison for Slav. Brod and N. Gradiska municipalities were 78% and 41% (wheat), as well as 41% and 24% (maize), respectively. In the last 8-year period, mean wheat yields in the region were for 17% lower and maize yield for 4% higher in comparison with mean yields of 80ies. These differences in level of BPC were 10% lower and 12% higher, for wheat and maize, respectively. We presume that low or absence effects of tile drainage because of their inadequate servicing could be expalantion for wheat yield decreasing. The lower yields of wheat are mainly in connection with oversupplies of water. However, low maize yields are in connection with water shortage and the higher airtemperatures. Low supplies of P and K are additional factors of low yields of field crops in the hydromorhic soils of the BPC.
23782839|Twenty genotypes of winter wheat released in Sweden between 1910 and 1976 were compared in lodging and near disease free conditions. Older varieties had surprisingly high grain yields (6.7 t/ha) the ten newer varieties yielding on an average 6 % higher than the ten older varieties. Apart for a moderate increase in kernel number no systematic change in the components of grain yield or total biomass was observed.
23789898|A Collection of 110 wheat varieties from different agroecological zones in Central Asia and the Caucasus (CAC), Russia, and Ukraine were evaluated for growth habit (winter, facultative, spring), growth type (prostrate versus erect), days to heading, resistance to yellow rust and leaf rust, and quality traits. The study was conducted at the experimental farms of International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) at Terbol in Lebanon and Tel Hadya in Syria to identify promising rust resistant wheat cultivars and lines that can be used in crossing program by cooperative Turkey-CIMMYT-ICARDA winter wheat breeding program. The study also aimed to assess the distribution of winter versus facultative versus spring types in the regional gene pool. Higher frequencies of winter types occurred in germplasm from Ukraine, Russia, southern Kazakhstan, Armenia, Uzbekistan and Georgia, whereas the frequencies of spring wheat in Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan were 33% and 20%, respectively. There were significant correlations between growth type, and both growth habit and cold tolerance (r = 0.60*** and 0.57**). This indicates that winter wheat varieties tend to be prostrate and cold tolerant, whereas facultative and spring wheats have are more erect and cold sensitive. Among the tested material 60% of varieties were resistant to yellow rust and 44%  to leaf rust. More than 20 genotypes demonstrated resistance to both rusts and useful variation for other traits proving good parents for crosses.
90003143|The Biogas Plant of Nyrbtor is the first plant which based on mixed raw materials. The control of quality parameters is difficult, because the amount and quality of the wastes from husbandry and plant production is seasonally different. More variants can be determined connected to the season or any periods. With the utilization of these recipes our aim is to increase the biogas production, and revise the quality parameters of the produced fermented material. We compared the quality and quantity parameters of the input and output materials in the period of 2006. October  2007. May. The result gave an overview about the effectiveness of the fermentation and more information about the quality of the produced material, with which the following utilizations can be determined.
23787140|Duration of vegetation period connected with environmental adaptability is a complicated physiological trait. Three key gene groups contribute to it: Vrn genes controlling growth habit (spring vs. winter) and vernalization response of late spring wheat cultivars, Ppd genes controlling photoperiod response and Eps genes controlling 'earliness per se'. The influence of Vrn genes is very significant. The phenotypic manifestation of dominant Vrn genes and their qualitative and quantitative components, and the problem in formalization of traits "growth habit (spring vs. winter)" and "response to vernalization" are discussed.
23782734|In an 8  8 half diallel analysis of durum wheat, dominant type of genic effect was found to play major role in the inheritance of yield and its components, though the importance of additive genic effect cannot be neglected for spikelets per spike, grains per spike, 1000-grain weight and plant height. There was preponderance of positive alleles for all the traits. Heritability (narrow sense) was found to be high for 1000-grain weight, plant height and spikelets per spike while low for grain yield per plant, biological yield per plant and tillers per plant.
90002751|We integrated two spatial soil information systems into the hexagonal grid of the Landscape--Ecological Vegetation Mapping of Hungary (MTA). From the AGROTOPO database, dominant properties were ordered to each hexagon. This process was applied to the whole territory of Hungary. From the Digital Kreybig Soil Information System (DKSIS) not only the dominant properties, but the distribution of the properties was assigned to each cells. Furthermore, we have created an index to estimate the heterogeneity of the soil. We will adopt the DKSIS to the MTA grid only in the territory of the Hungarian Great Plain. This new digital soil information system can satisfy the growing necessity of information for sustainable land use and environmental protection.
23781378|Consideration of population genetics and a review of some experimental data indicate that the dominance hypothesis can satisfactorily account for the heterotic effects observed in outbreeding species of plants. The quantitative measure of heterosis in autogamous species falls also within the range of expectation based on the presence of favorable dominant alleles in the hybrids. Statistical considerations indicate that a large number of alleles conveying either low fitness or overdominance is not likely in populations of autogamous plants. The amount of overdominance observed in a few clear cases seems to be large enough to account for the heterosis reported in autogamous species. Thus in allogamous plants the favorable effect of dominant alleles mainly determines the degree of heterosis observed, while in autogamous plants overdominance of one or a few genes may be responsible for heterosis just as frequently as may the dominance effect.
23784245|It is known that rice response to N fertilizers (mainly in granulated form) is lower than in other crops due to the greater complexity of the N cycle under flooding. A field trial was carried out to study the effect of foliar urea spraying on biomass production, harvest index, grain yield and grain protein content on three rice cultivars. Nitrogen (30 kg/ha), was applied as foliar urea spraying at the end of tillering, heading or postanthesis. Spraying N at heading increased grain yield due to higher grain number/m2 and a more efficient dry matter partition to the grain (harvest index), without changes in the biomass production. Independently of the time of application, urea sprayings did not modify head number or grain weight. The effect of urea sprayings on grain N content and protein percentage varied according to the cultivars and time of application (positive interaction cultivar x time). Both grain N content and grain protein percentage increased significantly with postanthesis spraying in two of the three cultivars studied but it had no effect on the grain yield. The efficiency of N fertilization for grain yield was higher when applied at heading. No apparent N recovery in the grain was observed when urea spraying was done at tillering; but it rises to 70% when applied at heading and to 47% when applied at postanthesis. In all cultivars N spraying at heading increased grain protein production per ha due to an increase of both grain yield and grain protein percentage. It has been concluded that N spraying in rice, even at low doses, could be effective to increase grain yield and grain protein content depending on rice cultivars and time of application.
23790307|Seventy-six promising bread winter wheat lines were investigated in relation to the allelic composition of grain storage proteins. The aim of the study was: i) to find out a possible relation between wheat quality and the separate low molecular loci and ii) to examine the potential of some of the existing Glu-A3 alleles to increase the quality. Five indices were investigated that covered almost all aspects of grain quality: sedimentation value, wet gluten content, dough stability, bread volume, quality index and valorimeter. The samples for quality analysis were from a 3-year period of investigation. Different statistical approaches were used to study the influence of Glu-A3 on the level of the indices. The LMW-GS were determined by SDS-PAGE (Payne et al. 1980). It was determined that locus Glu-A3 had the strongest influence on quality among the loci, that determine the low molecular glutenins. The Glu-A3 alleles influenced the end-use quality irrespective of the HMW-GS and LMW-GS composition background against which their effect was expressed. There were important variations among the separate alleles of Glu-A3 locus for their direct effect on end-used quality. Glu-A3f had strong positive effect on the end-use quality against the background of all HMW combinations. Glu-A3b had a similar positive effect. The Glu-A3b allele was connected with high quality in wheat but its effect was weaker than that of Glu-A3f and was not significant for some of the investigated indices.
23783009|Chinese Spring, which is the standard cultivar for wheat cytogenetic research, came to the Plant Breeding Institute at about the turn of this century. There it was known as Chinese White. W.O. Backhouse, a former student of Director Biffen's, took it to Argentina and in 1916 discovered its easy crossability with rye. It entered the United States in 1924, when L.R. Waldron of North Dakota received it from Biffen, and by 1932 it had made its way via Saskatoon, Canada, to Columbia, Missouri, where it was now called Chinese Spring. Because of its crossability with rye, Sears in 1936 used it for making wheat-rye hybrids for use in a chromosome-doubling experiment and obtained among the hybrids two wheat haploids, one of which he pollinated by wheat. The several offspring had a number of monosomes and trisomes, which became the nucleus of the extensive series of aneuploids now available in the cultivar Chinese Spring.
23789311|The subject of research was the anther culture response of 186 lines of winter crop triticale coming from two types of crossings: AxB and (AxB)xC. The number of embryoids and green regenerants obtained from particular lines were adopted as property indicators. The examined lines were characterised by a relatively good ability to create either single embryoids or conglomerated embryoids, but the number of green regenerants obtained later on from such structures was generally low. It was found that there were no significant differences between these objects both with regard to the ability to create embryoids and green regenerants in the case of anthers collected from hybrids from simple crossings, whilst there were significant differences (with p=0.05) in the case of hybrids originated from crossings of the type (AxB)xC. The coefficients of heritability of the ability to create embryoids was h2 =0,682 for anthers coming from hybrids of the type: AxB and h2=0,371 for anthers collected from hybrids of the (AxB)xC type. However genetic conditioning of the ability to regenerate green plants was 0.699 and 0.522 respectively. It may thus be supposed that the ability to create embryoids passed onto the next generation would be better with the forms originating from crossing of the AxB type, and the heritability of the ability to create green plants would be similar with both types of hybrids. For both of the groups compared, also the coefficients of variability CV(p) and CV(g) were calculated as well as the coefficients of correlation between the number of embryoids and the number of green regenerants obtained from them at a later phase.
23786902|A polyphenol oxidase has been extracted and partially purified from Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi cultivated in vitro. The enzyme biosynthesis was enhanced by the addition to the medium growth of 3-hydroxyacetophenone. Four different enzyme forms were separated through electrophoresis, and their apparent molecular mass has been calculated. The enzyme proved to possess a catechol oxidase activity, but not the cresolase one; its oxidative activity has been tested on different substrates.
23781477|Five lines of the maize mutants that early mature from the M2 generation, after treatment with the sodium azide /SA/ have been selected. The determined early forms of the M5 morphological characteristic and lower water contents in kernel. The mutants flower seven days earlier. The early plants differ among themselves in the complex of morphological characteristic.
23782805|Under natural short daylight(11-13hrs), in autuan sowing, a monosomic genetic analysis of photoperiodic reaction was carried out in F2 hybrids from crosses of a full series of monosonic lines of a sensitive variety Diamant 1 and 5 selected lines, 2A, 2B, 2D, 4B and 6B, of similar variety Saratovskaya 29 with winter variety Skorospelka 35, slightly sensitive to photoperiod. The results of the monosomic analysis of F2 in the two series of experiments: mono-Diamant 1 x Skorospelka 35 and mono-Saratovskaya 29 x Skorospelka 35 have shown an inheritance of photoperiodic reaction close to monogenic and permitted to localize one dominant gene Ppd1 on chromosome 2D of the winter variety Skorospelka 35. The genotype of Skorospelka 35 has been detemined to be Ppd1 Ppd1 ppd2 ppd2 for two loci of photoperiodic reaction. The presence of recessive alleles of two loci in the varieties Diamant 1 and Saratovskaya 29 has been confirmed.
90002985|In small-plot field experiment effect of various nitrogen levels in soil on grain yield and malt quality of winter barley (variety Barcelona and Babylone) was investigated during 3 years. At the end of tillering (DC 28-30) N-fertilization in doses calculated on the basis of inorganic nitrogen content in soil was performed. Increasing nitrogen supply in soil increased grain yield as well as crude protein content at both varieties and in contrary decreased content of starch in grain. Germination of grain was not affected by N level in soil significantly. Variety Barcelona showed higher resistance to N-nutrition and up to the soil level of 70 kg N ha
23789925|Hybrid rice varieties have clearly shown a 11.5 t/ha yield advantage ove semi-dwarf inbred high-yielding varieties in China and other countries. No information about the performance of hybrid rice varieties in rice-producing European countries been reported, however. Three previously selected Indica hybrid varieties from China (SYRC-86, SYRC-89 and SYRC-90), and two Indica check varieties (L-202 and Doongara) were evaluated in southern Spain. Various agronomic performance indicators including days to heading, plant height, grain moisture at harvest, yield components, grain yield and milling quality were recorded. Plant height and 1000-grain weight were found to be significantly greater in the hybrids, the yields of which exceeded those of the high-yielding check varieties by 1020%. By contrase, head rice recovery was 710% lower in the hybrids than in the check varieties. The optimum seeding rate for the hybrids was about 7590 kg/ha.
23781502|According to rank of quality class of durum wheats we elaborated a diagram method that is based upon the two major pasta quality components - these are the yellow index and the cooking value of pasta. By this method we estimated the quality of the durum varieties of the Cereal Research Institute Szeged, which were harvested in the Institute's field in 1979-80.
23779256|Combining ability studies made in F1 - F3 diallel crosses of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) for grain yield and its components involving seven diverse wheat varieties are reported. Both the general as well as specific combining ability variances were significant for all the measured characters, viz. grain yield, spike number, grain number and grain weight in all the filial generations. However, the relative magnitude of general combining ability variances was much higher than those of specific combining ability variances for almost all the evaluated characteristics, indicating greater role of additive gene effects in the inheritance of these attributes. The general combining ability effects were quite consistent over the generations for all the traits and in most of the cases higher general combining ability effects of particular lines corresponded with their higher mean performance. However, specific combining ability effects showed little consistency and lacked repeatability over the generations. The possibility of making reliable combining ability estimates in the F2 generation has been indicated and biparental mating of desirable segregants in the early segregating generations for creation of variability and accumulation of additive genetic effects has been suggested.
23784288|D-genome disomic substitution lines of durum wheat (Triticum turgidium L. var. durum) and their parental cultivars Langdon (recipient) and Chinese Spring (D-genome donor) were evaluated for their relative heat tolerance as measured by membrane thermostability to determine the chromosomal locations of genes controlling this trait. Results indicate that homoelogues 3 and 4 are most closely associated with heat tolerance. Chromosomes 3A, 3B, 4A, 4B, and 6A were found to be associated with heat tolerance of Langdon, while chromosomes 1B, 2A, 6B, and 7B were not related to heat tolerance.
90002943|Field experiment was conducted to estimate grain yield and yield components of Czech field pea cultivar Zekon at two different soil types in two consecutive years (2004, 2005). The effect of seed age (seeds aged 9 and 21 months) was tested in the second year of experiment. Effects of soil type and soil x year interaction were significant for the field emergence. Year effect was significant for grain yield and 1000 seed weight. Nine months old seed revealed significantly higher emergence and number of grains per pod. Differences of number of pods per plant, grain yield and 1000 seed weight across soils in 2005 and ages were not significant.
90002850|The seed Fe-contents of M
90003041|Tobacco ripening, a continuous process that includes the absorption of nitrogen from the soil, the reduction of nitrates into nitrogen compounds in the plant, photosynthesis and the accumulation of starch in the leaf, was studied during 2004-2005. For this purpose, investigations were organized in the main tobacco growing regions in Croatia, according to the split-split plot method. The treatments in the field trials were topping height (20 and 17 leaves for harvest), ripeness (underripe, ripe, overripe) and cultivar (HVT 1, VJ 1 and DH 17). The results of the study of flue-cured tobacco leaves from the upper half of the stalk (12-20 leaves) showed trends of greater yield, higher selling price per kg and increased overall value per ha of the harvested underripe tobacco leaves, according to the customary visual ripeness criteria for crops in the tobacco growing region. Better results were recorded in 2005, which was a wetter year. Interactions between the cultivar height and ripeness at the moment of harvest, for 1214 leaves, in 2004 and 2005 for tobacco yield and in 2004 for the value per hectare, indicate better ripening of low-topped tobacco. The differences produced by treatments in the nicotine content, reducing sugars and total nitrogen were not consistent. The content of reducing sugars in the meteorologically more favorable 2005 was significantly higher and accompanied by significant reduction in the overripe phase. Interactions found between the degree of ripeness at the moment of harvest and the cultivar in the nicotine and total nitrogen contents lead to the conclusion that the cultivar DH 17 is somewhat late ripening in comparison to the cultivars HVT 1 and VJ 1.
23779390|Character association among ten varieties of wheat between yield and its four components were studied under six environments. Correlation coefficients were also computed separately for parental, F1 and F2 populations each at high as well as low fertility level. Genotypic correlation coefficients were higher than their corresponding phenotypic correlation coefficients. Positive associations of yield with tillers per plant, the grains per ear and grain weight per ear were observed in all the environments. Similar picture was given by parental and F2 populations. In general, the components of yield were negatively associated with each other. In the light of present findings breeding plan for breaking undersirable associations has been suggested.
90003427|Walnut trees located in closed monoculture may suffer stress either from their own density-dependant self-regulating reproduction system or from other kind of well-known environmental factors, mainly late frosts and diseases. Their cumulative effects are expressed as a crop failure. However, the monoecious unisexual, wind-pollinated flower buds indicate high variability on phenology and fructification within the different varieties. The detailed variety examination opens potentialities for reducing the disadvantageous influence of the main stress factors.
23786986|In this work the occurrence, level of infestation and Fusarium species spectrum in winter wheat seeds were evaluated. The Fusarium species were isolated from the asymptomatic seeds of the same cultivars collected from several locations of Slovakia, after standard harvest. The highest level of infestation was recorded in Mal ari and Vgl'a-Pstrua  the most wet and cold locations among the evaluated ones. The species spectrum differences in cultivars within each locality were small and negligible. Greater differences were observed among locations, without cultivars specification. F. poae was the predominant species in locations with low infestation level of seeds. The species spectrum was wider in locations with higher infestation level and the dominant species was Microdochium nivale followed by F. poae. Other species - F. avenaceum, F. culmorum, F. acuminatum, F. sambucinum, F. sporotrichioides, F. graminearum, F. semitectum, F. tricinctum, F. compactum and F. oxysporum were less frequent. These facultative pathogens in asymptomatic grains are important for distribution trough the seeds for sowing and important for further infections and epidemiology in the field.
23787182|Knowledge about the distribution of sugars in vegetative tissues can provide information about levels of carbohydrates in kernels of sweet maize (Zea mays L.). Levels of fructose, glucose, sucrose and their total were determined over time in stalks and ears in the sweet maize cvs. Summer Flavor #72Y, Merit, and Supersweet Jubilee, which have respectively, the su1se1, su1, or sh2 endosperm types. Internode 9 (19), which is generally formed below the first ear, was sampled from the 12-leaf stage to fresh-market maturity (R3). Entire developing ears were sampled when tassels were extended but unfolded (VN) and at silking (R1). Kernel and cob tissues were sampled separately at blister (R2) and R3 stages. Levels of individual sugars, their total, and levels of starch, water soluble polysaccharides (WSP), and total extractable carbohydrates (added values for individual sugars, WSP, and starch) were determined in kernels at R2 and R3. In 19, levels of fructose and glucose decreased, and sucrose increased in all cultivars after R1. In developing ears levels of fructose, glucose and total sugar increased from VN to R1 in all cultivars. In cobs, total sugars decreased at R3. In kernels, the sh2 endosperm type cultivar had the highest sugar contents. There was more sucrose in kernels at R3 and more total sugar at R2. The sh2 endosperm type cultivar had the lowest WSP and the highest total carbohydrate levels in kernels at R3. Large changes in sugar content occurs in stalks after R1 and factors interrupting sugar metabolism at this stage, or earlier, may affect levels of sugars in kernels.
23782905|It was shown that increased grain protein content of B-16 form, when crossing it with Odesskaya Semidwarf low protein variety, was controlled by female (feeding) plant and did not depend on endosperm genotype. It correlates with data obtained from other bread wheat varieties and suggests that selection for protein content is necessary to perform on the level not lower than a plant. In trial conditions the protein content of seeds, set in B-16 plants, did not depend on the total grain weight in a spike, It differs this form from Odesskaya Semidwarf variety and from cvs. Bezostaya 1 and Odesskaya 51 investigated earlier. All those varieties indicate the negative correlation between the given values. Also it was shown that caryopse size, similar to protein content, did not depend on the endosperm genotype too.
23777453|Neither adenylic acid /0, 1, 5, 25, 125, 375 and 675 ppm/ nor trypsin treatments /100 ppm/ nor embryo transplantation /winter wheat embryo on spring wheat endosperm and reciprocal/ induced heading in winter wheat cultivars. Thus, these treatments cannot be used completely or partly /with some partial cold treatment/ in place of cold treatments to satisfy the vernalization requirements of winter wheat.
23790384|The proteins that form gluten of a winter wheat cultivar, Ukrainka (HMW-GS composition 1, 7+8, 5+10) grown in Hungary and harvested in the year 2006, was investigated during grain development. The formation of gluten, its protein fractions and composition of polymeric fraction, were followed starting at the 12 th day after anthesis (DAA) to the 52 nd . Gluten formation was first observed (manual method of determination) only 2025 days after anthesis and its quantity increased rapidly during the next period of grain development. The gluten was separated to a fraction extractable with SDS-phosphate buffer and another fraction, unextractable by this buffer. An increase in the ratio of unextractable polymeric protein (UPP)/soluble protein fraction was observed during grain development. As expected, gliadin was the main component of the soluble fraction and glutenin that of the insoluble one. HMW monomers were detected in unreduced fractions in small quantities only until 30 th DAA. RP-HPLC of reduced gluten fractions showed a slight increase of the ratio HMW/LMW with days after anthesis. An increase of relative viscosity of gluten solutions during grain development was also observed as a sign of polymerization of glutenin subunits and consequently an increase in average molecular weight of glutenin.
23789329|Flour from grains originating from plants infected artificially with cereal aphids were analyzed for glutenin and gliadin and total protein content, using Size Exclusion HPLC. Wheat plants were caged at the beginning of stem elongation. Cages were treated with 0.1 % methyl parathion. One week later, the caged plants were artificially infected with 5 aptera individuals of Metopolophium dirhodum, Diuraphis noxia, Sitobion avenae and Rhopalosiphum padi. It was found that aphid infection had significant effect on the glutenin and gliadin content, the total protein content and the gliadin/glutenin ratio. Both the glutenin and gliadin content was significantly higher in the seeds harvested from aphid infected plants. However, the gliadin/glutenin ratio was significantly lower in wheat flour prepared from aphid infected plants than in those from uninfected control. The most significant decrease in gliadin/glutenin ratio was caused by M. dirhodum, D. noxia, S. avenae infection followed by R. padi at high-abundance. As the gliadin/glutenin ratio was significantly lower in flours made from aphid infected wheat seeds, it may be suggested, that aphid feeding results in decreased bread making quality of wheat flour.
23786925|Antixenosis and antibiosis were evaluated in 3 somaclonal variants of wheat and barley with low level of resistance to greenbug (Schizaphis graminum Rond.). All somaclones possessed both components of resistance to the pest. The resistance is supposed to be under polygenic control because of its very low expressiveness and constant segregation for the trait in several generations. Simultaneous antibiosis and antixenosis changes indicated evident pleiotropic effect of minor genes for the trait. Relationships between different mechanisms for plant resistance to insects are discussed.
90003112|Changes of long term potentiation (LTP) as an elementary learning model in the first generation offspring of fumonisin B
23777710|Present investigation was undertaken to characterize 6 popular wheat varieties in terms of strength as determined by W. The numerical values of W for parents and hybrids were used in deriving dominance relationship on the basis of Vr+Wr values. S 307 and NP 301 were weak gluten, Kalyansona and UP 302 medium strong gluten and NP 852 and K 68 strong gluten wheats. High dough strength was primarily governed by dominant genes. Degree of dominance was partial. In general strong  strong, stroge  medium strong and strong  weak gluton crosses gave strong gluten progenies.
23781405|A neutron scattering technique was used to detect experimentally and statistically significant varietal differences in patterns of water use among a group of genotypes. Plants were grown under dryland field conditions. The genotypes differed in their pattern of moisture uptake. Regression lines were used to compare the genotypes for their water uptake A group of genotypes was identified,which used less moisture than the population mean early in the growing season, but used more moisture towards heading and anthesis. This pattern of soil-moisture uptake is important in dryland wheat production where soil-moisture is limiting.
23786147|Fifteen populations were generated from a 6x6 diallel cross without reciprocal and the selection was applied based on harvest index in the F2 generation. The F2, F3, F4, F5 and F6 generations of the cross population were grown in a randomized complete block design with three replications at Bornova of zmir province in Turkey. Correlation coefficients were estimated among the grain yield (g), plant height (cm), spike length (cm), 1000 kernel weight (g), biomass (g), harvest index (%), flag leaf width (cm), flag leaf length (cm) and number of spikes per square meter in almost all generations. It was found that there were significant positive correlations between the grain yield and the biomass production in all generations. The correlation between harvest index and grain yield varied at different generations. Harvest index had also significant positive correlations with thousand-kernel weight in the F2 and F3 generations. It was concluded that the grain yield could be increased with a higher level of total biomass in semidwarf genotypes and harvest index could be used for selection only if it has a high correlation and higher heritability than grain yield in further studies.
23787275|Protein electrophoretic patterns and immunblot analysis were investigated in 30 grain samples: different cultivars of 12 cereal species (samples of einkorn, durum wheat, bread wheat, spelt wheat, barley, naked barley, rye, triticale, oat, naked oat, millet and corn) and one buckwheat and one amaranth variety. The gliadin fractions in all wheat, barley, rye, triticale and oat samples show intense reactivity against the rabbit anti-gliadin (wheat) antibodies. The bands are extremely strong in the case of the spelt wheat samples, consequently the consumption of bread and pasta made from the flour of this spelt wheat (ko 10) species can not be recommended to the patients suffering from gluten sensitivity. However, there are immunreactive zones not in the protein range corresponding to the gliadin fractions with corn and millet samples, whereas no reactivity is observed against the buckwheat and amaranth samples, which do not belong to the cereal species. Electrophoretic methods and immunblot techniques can be used as a tool for detection and identification of prolamin fractions in different cereals or foods in the interest of knowledge of the potential allergenic character and the technological characteristics of flour proteins.
23786276|Twenty four genotypes of barley were screened for their resistance against corn leaf aphid, Rhopalosiphum maidis (Fitch.) under field as well as screen house conditions during the year 1994-95. The corn leaf aphid, Rhopalosiphum maidis (Fitch) population started appearing on plants of some genotypes during standard week 3(mid January) attaining a peak during 7th standard week (mid February) when maximum population of 61.67 and minimum of 14.60 aphids per tiller was observed on genotypes clipper and AR4, respectively under natural infestation conditions. All the twenty four genotypes were grouped as tolerant (AR-4, AR-66, AR-5, AR-48, AR-14, AR-11, AR-17, AR-16 and AR-52), susceptible (AR-10, AR-7, AR-3, AR-30, AR-13, AR-2, AR-15, AR-12, AR-9 and AR-8) and highly susceptible (BH-75, AR-25, AR-19, AR-18 and Clipper) based upon their reaction against aphid infestation under field conditions. Under screenhouse conditions the genotypes AR-4 and AR-7 exhibited tolerant reaction, while 15 genotypes (AR-48, AR-5, AR-10, AR-14, AR-52, AR-30, AR-66, AR-16, AR-2, AR-13, AR-9, AR-17, AR-3, AR11 and AR-8) were found to be susceptible and remaining seven genotypes AR25, AR-12, AR-15, AR-19, AR-18, BH-75 and Clipper) as highly susceptible.
90003102|For the complex evaluation of quality of winter wheat varieties we have elaborated a quality index for winter wheat samples called Z-index. This index could be a good complex quality indicator both for variety and environment comparisons and the graphical representation gives helpful information about the quality performance of different samples rapidly. In this study I present its application by the examination of the effect of applied variety and mineral fertilization on flour quality.
23788191|A preliminary study was carried out for the effect of far UV radiation on the morphology and germination of the conidia of Fusarium culmorum. It can be established that the UV radiation was effective mainly on the width and the number of transversal walls of conidia developed on the air mycelia. For the examination of the effect of UV radiation, conidia were prepared from the irradiated mycelia as well as from the mycelia developed after the irradiation. As a result of our investigations, it can be established that the conidia developed in the mycelia irradiated by 0,81 J/cm2 dose were resistive for the far UV radiation. The germination percent of these conidia were about 20 percent even at the dose of 1,728 J/cm2 applied at the start of germination. The conidia isolated from mycelia developed after irradiation already lost their ability of germination at the irradiation of the smallest dose.
23787191|The gene pool available for maize breeding is restricted. The heterosis sources used successfully over the last 80 years (Lancaster, Reid Yellow Dent) have been over-exploited and are near exhaustion (Duvick and Cassman 1999). Among the European sources of heterosis, European Flint is widely known, but its earliness and special suitability for silage maize breeding do not allow it to make any great contribution to further improvements in the yield potential of mid-season or late-maturing maize hybrids. In addition to developing new heterosis sources, the utilisation of older but little known sources could be a useful way of supplementing widely used sources. Over the last 50-60 years at least 29 inbred lines with commercial value have been developed from the Rumai group of the Central European Dent race and at least 19 from Mindszentpusztai Yellow Dent. Lines of Rumai and Mindszentpusztai Yellow Dent are at least as important in the European Corn Belt as lines originating from Lancaster Surecrop and Reid Yellow Dent are in the North American Corn Belt. In addition the first maize hybrid registered in Europe, Mv 5, was developed in Hungary, was a double cross involving three MYD lines. The paper provides a review of the contribution made by Mindszentpusztai Yellow Dent to Hungarian hybrid maize breeding during a period of over 50 years.
23790154|For the hop varieties: Agnus, Harmonie, Premiant and Osvaldv klon 72, the values for the saturation radiance and photosynthetic capacity were determined. Photosynthetic capacity was determined gasometrically. For the varieties Premiant and Osvaldv klon 72 the saturation irradiance was 447 mol.m2.S1 and for the varieties Agnus and Harmonie 499 mol.m2.s1. The lowest photosynthetic capacity was demonstrated by Osvaldv klon 72 (6.8 mol CO2.m2.s1) and the highest by Premiant (14.64 mol CO2.m2.s1). The results obtained supplemented the present knowledge from the area of hop physiology and will expand knowledge about the biological properties of the varieties in question.
23792380|The interactions of ecological conditions, genotypes and agrotechnical elements determine the yield quantity, quality and stability in cereal (wheat, maize) production. The applied input-level can modify the adaptive capacity of crop models to ecological conditions. The effects of agrotechnical elements (crop rotation, fertilization, irrigation, crop protection, plant density) were studied in the long-term experiment on chernozem soil. Our scientific results proved that the high yields and good yield-stability were obtained in the input-intensive crop models, so these models had better adaptive capacity, high yield and resilience. Maize had lower ecological adaptive ability than winter wheat. The optimalization of agrotechnical elements reduces the harmful climatic effects so we can increase the yield and yield stability of cereals agro-ecosystems. The yields of wheat varied between 2 and 7 t ha 1 in extensive and 8 and 10 t ha 1 in intensive crop models and the yields of maize ranged between 2 and 11 t ha 1 and 10 and 15 t ha 1 , respectively.
23784261|Callus induction and growth of mature, attached bread wheat mesocotyls using endosperm metabolites and 2,4-D is very rapid. However, whole mature embryos after imbibition and the immature embryos without any pretreatment produced callus as rapidly as in the original method when set free from the seeds, but left attached and placed in a 2,4-D solution (2-8 mg/l). Callus initiation occurred already on the 2nd day after inoculation and the 9 day-old calluses could be subcultured. Calluses were formed on the surface of the mature and immature embryos. Mature or immature embryos of T. aestivum and T. durum cultivars readily produced callus in this system, indicating that rapid callus formation of attached embryos supported by the endosperm metabolites is a common capability of both wheat species.
23787143|Knowing how sugar content changes in the whole plant could be useful for predicting sugar content in sweet maize (Zea mays L.) kernels at fresh-market maturity. Levels of fructose, glucose, sucrose, and their total were determined in various tissues over time in the sweet maize cv. Summer Flavor #72Y (su1se1 endosperm). From the 12-leaf to fresh-market maturity stages, Internode 9 that is generally formed below the first ear, was sampled. Entire developing ears were sampled when tassels were extended but unfolded, and at silking. Kernel and cob tissues were sampled separately at blister and fresh-market maturity stages. Patterns of correlations indicated that levels of sugars in vegetative tissues at various developmental stages are interdependent with levels of sugars in kernels. Factors affecting development of plants prior to anthesis may affect sugar levels in kernels at fresh-market maturity.
90002317|Ninety percent of wheat varieties grown worldwide have a semi-dwarf phenotype controlled by three major genes
90003507|This work presents results of a survey that studied simulated plant browsing by herbivores and its influence on the cereal quality. In 2004-2005, winter wheat and spring barley field trials were founded in order to monitor the impact of different levels of defoliation (leaf area reduction) on the grain quality. The defoliation was carried out by the means of mechanical removal of plant parts in the early growth stages. Selected qualitative parameters were determined in the harvested grain. No statistically significant influence of the leaf area reduction on TGW was found in any of the studied crops. The leaf area reduction in barley did not affect the grain's protein and starch content, grain over sieve 2.5 mm, and extract in the grain. The leaf area reduction had a statistically significant influence on the quality of the wheat grain - after reduction the falling number increased statistically significantly (by 29-39 s) and SDS test values decreased (by 8-9 ml).
90002856|The cultivation of soil above other advantages has favorable effect in destroying pest shelters and disrupts their life cycles. The aim of this paper is to present the effect of different tillage systems on population of common voles (
23783853|Anther cultures were performed with T. tauschii, T. monococcum and 13 tetraploid wheat species including T. turgidum spp. durum. Embryos were induced from pollen in all species except T. monococcum. The tetraploid wheat species showed an average embryo induction rate of 4.5% based on plated anthers. Mainly non-green pollen plantlets were regenerated from T. tauschii, T. polonicum, T. dicoccoides, T. carthlicum, T. turanicum, T. dicoccon, T. ispahanicum and T. turgidum ssp. durum cv. "MONDUR". Average regeneration of embryos to plantlets was 22.4% in tetraploid wheat, but only 3% of the regenerated plantlets were green, all resulting from one accession of T. dicoccon.
23779260|Thirty nine genotypes of rice have been studied for association pattern under high and low fertility conditions following correlation and path coefficient analysis. Genotypic correlation coefficients were higher than their corresponding phenotypic correlations and there was no association at environmental level. Grain yield was found to be positively associated with days to 50 per cent flowering, days to maturity, plant height, panicles per plant, grain per panicle and 1000-grain weight. Panicle length was negatively correlated with grain yield in both the environments. All the yield components except 1000-grain weight were positively associated with each other. Grains per panicle and 1000-grain weight registered highest direct effect on seed yield as revealed by path coefficient analysis. In the light of present findings component selection with greater emphasis on grains per panicle and 1000-grain weight has been suggested in rice.
90003309|The objective of this research project is to investigate the heterogeneity in the occurrence of
23779349|The potential for ratoon cropping (two grain harvests from one planting) as one scheme in a double-cropping program was investigated in the Southeast U.S.A. Twenty-one sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench.] hybrids grouped according to their relative maturity (three groups, 7 hybrids per group) were planted at two locations in 1978. The medium maturity group of hybrids outyielded the early group by 2702 kg/ha and the late group by 1696 kg/ha. The medium-maturity hybrids were superior in all yield and yield components measured. Funk's G-522 was the best hybrid evaluated in the study for combined grain yields in the ratoon double-cropping scheme.
90002893|In the present paper a microcosm experiment set is reported, in which the greenhouse gas emission of soil microbial origin, the microbial activity of soil samples treated with different additives and factors such as nutrient supply influencing the microbial activity and soil interactions were investigated. The gas emission containing nitrogen could be minimised by manure. Both the applications of mineral nitrogen fertiliser and plant residue increased gaseous nitrogen losses of denitrification origin.
90002887|A small catchment at Tagyon in the watershed of Lake Balaton has been monitored for suspended sediment (SS) and total phosphorus (TP) runoff between 2003 and 2006. Annual sediment exports varied between 1.27 and 4.90 t ha
23779175|One hundred and fifty seven components of Kalyansona and PV 18 multilines have been screened for seedling and adult plant reaction at different locations in the Punjab. Seedling reaction was studied against individual rust cultures. Out of 157, seventeen components were susceptible both at seedling as well as adult plant stage whereas eleven were seedling resistant while adult susceptible. 66 components were completely resistant whereas 63 were seedling susceptible and adult resistant. Implications of each category in breeding programmes have been discussed and seedling susceptible and adult resistant lines have been preferred over the completely resistant ones.
90002883|Yield stability under water stress condition is a desirable trait for wheat producers and breeders. Data for yield and other agronomic traits were collected from field trials comprising 40 bread winter wheat genotypes (
23782911|Emergence of Striga plants was studied for five isolates of Striga asiatica collected from five different sorghum-growing regions of India, for two years on three resistant, and one susceptible sorghum cultivars. The objective of this study was to gain experimental evidence for or against the existence of intracrop (crop cultivar-specific) 'strains' in Striga asiatica that occurs in India. Results indicated that the Striga isolates significantly differed in their virulence in infesting sorghum, but did not show significant host cultivar x isolate interactions, suggesting that physiological specialization has not occured, resulting in host cultivar specificity (intracrop specificity) among the isolates studied. Two resistant cultivars, N 13 and IS 5106 exhibited resistance across all the isolates studied indicating the possibility of finding stable resistant cultivars in spite of the presence of isolates with differential virulence.
23789290|A total of 96 winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars registered in Hungary were analysed using 15 wheat microsatellite markers located on different chromosome arms. Analyses revealed 91 SSR alleles with sizes ranging from 123239 base pairs. The total number of alleles per locus ranged from 2 (Gwm664 and Gwm415) to 11 (Gwm219) with an average number of 6.1. The polymorphic information content (PIC) values ranged from 0.06 to 0.85 with an average number of 0.60 for all markers. Several markers included allele sizes characteristic of a single or a small number of cultivars. At most 9 SSR markers were required to distinguish the 96 cultivars, so the simple sequence repeats could serve as a relatively cheap, rapid method for identifying winter wheat cultivars.
23781478|Laboratory germination rates in D-mannitol and field emergence rates at two planting dates of thirteen red and three white wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars were compared. No consistent relationship between laboratory and field rankings of either total germination or germination rate was found.
23783076|Thirty genetically diverse genotypes of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) were grown in a replicated field experiment from 1984 to 1986 at six locations in a study to determine the stability of flour quality of wheat when grown in different production environments. The location by year, genotype by year, and genotype by year by location interaction effects on sedimentation volume were highly significant (P<0,01). The sedimentation values for the genotypes when averaged over all environments were negatively correlated with duration to anthesis (P<0,01) and maturity (P<0,05) and positively with duration of grain filling (P<0,01). The linear regression coefficients of the 30 genotypes were highly different (P<0,001). The genotypes were classified into four categories of adaptation of flour quality.
90003383|Leaf samples bearing virus symptoms were collected from different vineyards of West Hungary in the summer. Samples were analyzed by DAS-ELISA for
23787225|Field experiments on maize (Zea mays L.) inbred lines were conducted to identify the various morpho-physiological traits conferring water logging tolerance. Two experiments were conducted in randomized complete block design with 16 genotypes, consisting of 14 inbred lines and two synthetics. The water logging treatment was given at knee-height stage by keeping 5 cm continuous submergence for 7 days. The ANOVA revealed significant differences among the genotypes for all the characters under study. The G x E interaction was significant for days to 50% silking, plant height, ear height, number of kernel rows/ear, leaf canopy temperature, transpiration rate and grain yield. The immediate response of maize to water logging was the development of profuse adventitious root system from several nodes of the stem (4-5 nodes). The results indicated that water logging reduced the plant height and ear height. Also under waterlogged conditions, cobs were of small length and diameter with lesser number of kernel rows/ear and the 100-seed weight was also less. There was a significant decrease in the mean grain yield of all the lines under water logged conditions with maximum reduction in case of water logging susceptible line Pop 31  21-1-2-4-1-1-3-1 to 11#.
23785372|Spikes of wheat, barley and rye were collected from fields a week before harvest. Collected samples were incubated for 10 days in flasks. Before and after incubation samples were screened for volatile compounds production, trichothecenes and changes in fungal microflora. Trichodiene was detected in one sample before incubation and in all 10 after (0.13 to 8.85g/L). Trichothecenes level before incubation varied from nd to 0.08 g/g and increased after incubation to 0.04 to 8.90g/g. Increase in trichodiene contents in incubated samples assisted the increase in trichothecenes level. As an intermediate in trichothecenes biosynthesis volatile trichodiene can give preliminary information on the ability of Fusaria inhabiting spikes to synthesize trichothecenes.
23784266|Expression of salt tolerance gene(s) in Ae. cylindrica was studied in hybrids of hexaploid wheats with different salt tolerant accessions of Ae. cylindrica. Screening was conducted at conductivity levels of EC 3, 15, 20 and 25 dS/m. All F1 hybrids survived until flowering at EC 15, some at EC 20 and none at EC 25 dS/m. Those surviving at EC 15 dS/m showed varied growth responses. Except for one combination (Pak-81  Ae. cylindrica accession 502242) which produced shrivelled seeds, most of the F1 hybrids could not be backcrossed under saline conditions. BC1 seeds produced under non-saline conditions possessed 40, 41, or 42 chromosomes. Meiotic analyses of 41 and 43 chromosome plants indicated average chromosome pairing levels of 1-3 univalents and 19-21 bivalents. The BC1 plants with Pak-81 and Lu-26 as female parents and with 42 and 44 chromosome plant progenies indicated varied salt tolerance response. Possible factor(s) underlying such behaviour are discussed.
23780368|The grain obtained from 30 of the possible 42 nullitetrasomics and three ditelosomics of common wheat variety Chinese Spring, grown along with the euploid was analysed for its amino acid composition and protein content. These stocks represent nullisomy for 17 chromosomes, except for 2A, 2B, 4A and 5D, and tetrasomy for 17, except for 2D, 4B, 4D and 5A. No gross change in amino acid composition was found which could be associated with the presence or absence of specific chromosomes. Stocks having chromosomes 3D, 5D and 7A in 4 dosages had higher grain nitrogen at 1000 kernel weight comparable to the euploid Chinese Spring.
90003048|Modern farming, with the application of technical equipments, progressive tillage, fertilizers, and, not least, irrigation and drainage installations, has a major influence on water resources and soils. The vital resources of water and soil have been recklessly overexploited for decades, resulting in disastrous environmental damages, like soil salinity and degradation, water pollution and groundwater overuse. The changing conditions show an adverse impact on agricultural productivity and development. Competing water and soil users claim these resources inconsiderately, causing quantitative and qualitative changes to the environment.
23786282|The objective of this study was to determine the potential of the chlorophyll (Chl) fluorescence technique to assess the behaviour of wheat varieties under drought and heat in the field. Seedlings of Flamura 85, a drought and heat resistant wheat cultivar, were exposed to 35C for 2 up to 72 h. Net photosynthesis decreased significantly after 48 and 72 h of high temperature exposure, whereas the Chl fluorescence ratios, the Rfd-values at 690 and 735 nm, and the stress adaptation index Ap decreased much faster, after 4 h already, demonstrating that Chl fluorescence is a useful trait in early detection of stress in wheat cultivars. The best differentiation of controls from heat-exposed plants for the Chl fluorescence indices (Rfdvalues and Ap) was obtained at 48 h. Ten winter wheat varieties were investigated for the ratios of the variable Chl fluorescence, Rfd-values at 690 and 735 nm as vitality indices, and the stress adaptation index, Ap, in primary leaves after seedlings' exposure to 35C for 48 h. Chl fluorescence parameters significantly decreased in all genotypes, but to a higher extent in those which are drought and heat sensitive according to field evaluations. The better performing varieties under stress conditions in the field also showed a smaller decrease of the Chl fluorescence indices. When plotting the differences between Ap at normal and high temperature against the mean visual score for the leaves' vitality in the field during the anthesis-grain filling period, a significant high correlation was found (r = 0.78**).
90002907|Constructed wetlands have been used for wastewater treatment for several years, since their natural processes effectively contribute to the removal of pollutants. During our survey, we examined an artificial wetland, which was constructed for the treatment of petrochemical wastewater. The treatment system has been studied by the Department of Applied Ecology of the University of Debrecen for more than thirty years. Besides examining of the effectiveness of pollutant removal in the system, the aim of our work was to reveal the role of vegetation in the functioning of the wetland-system. According to our results, concentration values of various nitrogen-forms (i.e. nitrite, nitrate and ammonium) suggest some kind of inhibition in the process of nitrification. Removal rates of BOD and COD were 40 and 51 respectively, which are considered to be satisfactory as well as the removal of phosphorous, since 21 per cent of total phosphorous was retained in the wetland.
23783822|Aleurone layers isolated from mature grains of tall (Chinese Spring, NP-876, C-273 and K-68) and semi-dwarf (Kalyansona and Moti) wheat cultivars were incubated under aseptic conditions in the presence or absence of gibberellin (GAs). In presence of GAs the aleurone layers synthesized and secreted large amounts of -amylase into the medium between 20-48h incubation. The semi-dwarfs carrying Rht1 and/Rht2genes showed significantly less stimulation as compared to the talls. This trend was also observed in a time course study from 20 to 48h incubation. This differential response of aleurone layers was also observed in a petri plate assay.
23783859|A study was made on the lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione and yield / plant in seeds of 5 wheat genotypes and their 10 F1 hybrids. The lowest rate of lipid peroxidation and highest level of reduced glutathione were observed in NS Rana 2  Bnkuti 1205 having the highest resistance to the toxic effect of activated oxygen radicals and therefore, it could be used in wheat breeding. Genotypes NS Rana 2  Bnkuti 1205 has also the highest yield / plant among the examined genotypes.
23787233|The Chinese wheat variety 'CN0004', described to carry the new GA insensitive dwarfing gene Rht21 on chromosome 2AL was used for test crosses with the GA sensitive variety 'Bersee' and its isogenic lines 'Bersee iso Rht-B1b' (Rht1) and 'Bersee iso Rht-D1b' (Rht2). Performing the GA seedlings test in F2 it could be demonstrated that 'CN0004' is carrying two genes for GA insensitivity allelic to Rht-B1 and Rht-D1 which are located on chromosomes 4B and 4D, respectively. Homoeologous relationships between the GA insensitive dwarfing genes of wheat, barley and rye are discussed.
23792334|The glutenin allele gene-pool, the distribution of the individual alleles on the 6 loci coding for glutenin subunits and their combinations were determined in a sample population containing 107 cultivars bred and grown in Martonvsr, Hungary at the Agricultural Research Institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The database is based on the results of three independent analytical procedures carried out using the traditional SDS-PAGE based allele identification, the state-of-art MALDI-TOF technology and the high throughput capillary electrophoresis based on the lab-on-a-chip technique. The usefulness of integrating the information on both HMW GS and LMW GS allelic composition for future genetic and technological improvement is discussed.
90002839|2 varieties of spring barley were selected: Valtick as a historical variety and Malz, cultivated from it, as a representative of contemporary varieties. Both varieties were grown in two different groups  a control group and a group stressed by soil drought. In both groups, translocation of assimilates was then monitored by means of the method of combustion calorimetry. The present-day Malz variety is a result of a significant cultivation progress in comparison with the Valtick variety because there is a more economical distribution of assimilates in favour of the commercially important organ of the plant, i.e. spikes. In the Malz variety, the cultivation progress is also apparent in the more efficient utilisation of the mechanisms for adaptation to water stress.
23785394|Four important toxigenic species of fungi are associated with corn (Zea mays) intended for human and animal consumption in South Africa, ie Aspergillus flavus, Diplodia maydis, Fusarium graminearum, and Fusarium moniliforme. Corn infected by these fungi causes outbreaks of the following mycotoxicoses in animals: aflatoxicosis, diplodiosis, hyperestrogenism and leukoencephalomalacia. The five most important mycotoxins known to occur naturally in corn in South Africa are aflatoxins, deoxynivalenol, nivalenol, zearalenone and fumonisins. The following mycotoxins in foods have been implicated in human diseases in South Africa: aflatoxins in acute toxic hepatitis, kwashiorkor and liver cancer and fumonisins in oesophageal cancer. Tolerance levels of mycotoxins in grain are essential to protect human health and to assess grain quality from the viewpoint of mycotoxin contamination. Tolerance levels are established by means of risk assessment studies. Risk assessment of mycotoxins in grains has two major components, ie exposure assessment and hazard assessment. Exposure is calculated from naturally occurring levels of a mycotoxin in foodstuffs and food intake and expressed as the Probable Daily Intake (PDI). Hazard is calculated from toxicological studies in experimental animals by dividing the No Observed Effect Level (NOEL) by a Safety Factor (ranging from 100 to 5000) and expressed as the Tolerable Daily Intake (TDI). Several estimates of PDI and TDI values of fumonisins in corn are compared and a tolerance level of 100 to 200 g/kg for fumonisins in corn intended for human consumption is suggested. However, more work remains to be done to establish scientifically sound and economically reasonable tolerance levels for fumonisins in corn.
23784241|The growth of three winter wheats of different origin and habitus, Maris Marksman, Mironovskaya 808 and Mexique 50-B21 was studied nondestructively, on the basis of leaf growth and the rate of leaf development. The plants were grown in pots in growth chamber. Two soils were used, A and B, more and less fertile, resp. Both soils were either left unfertilized (F1) or fertilized according to agrochemical recommendation (F2). The plants were evaluated in intervals of 3-7 days; they were harvested destructively after 34 days, in the period of tillering. The effect of both soil origin and fertilization treatments and their interaction with genotype could be detected as early as from the changes in growth of the second leaf, and the effect became gradually more pronounced. Fertilization (F2) increased plant growth in soil B, and slightly depressed growth or left it unchanged in soil A. In all wheats, and irrespective of treatment, total and aboveground mass at harvest (day 34) was higher in soil A than B. Drought tolerant cv. Mexique 50-B21 was the least affected by soil origin; it had higher root/shoot ratio, higher total N content and pronouncedly lower Ntotal/N-NO3 ratio than cvs. Maris Marksman and Mironovskaya 808.
23786926|Pre-harvest sprouting (PHS) is an important abiotic stress factor in small grain production both in South Africa and Hungary. Grain and seed quality parameters decrease after frequent of prolonged rainfall during harvest time, leading to enormous economic problems for the producer and the country. Development, exchange and introduction of cultivars to abiotic stresses such us pre-harvest sprouting is an essential requirement for sustaining crop production in both countries. In this study, we compared the tolerance or susceptibility of South African and Hungarian cultivars to PHS and their subsequent falling number at four different localities. The Hungarian cultivar GK Gncl seemed to have adapted the best to the South African climate, although its yield was not better than that of GK Cip. The four South African cultivars, namely Gariep, Limpopo, Caledon and Elands did not seem to have a problem with PHS. The Hungarian cultivars GK Mr and GK Cip also showed a good resistance to PHS. GK Gncl and GK Jszsg, however, had low tolerance over all four environments and could lead to quality problems when rain occurs during harvest time. Selected cultivars can be used in future in PHS-risk areas to lower input costs and production risk, while maintaining or improving crop yields and grain quality.
90003357|The effect of replenisment and replacement fertilisation on the AL-soluble P
23788190|Cereal crop residues represent the most important inoculum source for the development of Fusarium head blight in wheat and barley. There is little information on the level of colonization or the contribution of different parts of the wheat residue to inoculum. In this study, wheat residue tissues including nodes, floral bracts (glumes, lemmas, and paleae), and kernels were evaluated for Gibberella zeae colonization and inoculum production. Gibberella zeae was recovered from all residue tissues. Colonization, determined as the percentage of each residue fraction colonized by G. zeae, was greater on nodes than on kernels and floral bracts. Ascospores were produced by G. zeae on all residue tissues studied. Tissues differed in the quantity of ascospores produced with kernels supporting the development of more ascospores per gram of tissue than nodes and floral bracts. Information from this study may assist in the understanding of colonization and ascospores production of G. zeae in different residue tissues.
90003291|Settlement of kernelas of four spring wheat cultivars was diverse in particular years. Depending on cropping system and cultivar it ranged from 2.0% up to do 25.0%. Mean value calculated for three years in organic system was 12.7%, in conventional  10.6% and in integrated system  13.2%. The most often isolated fungi were:
90002886|GIS anlysis of the CORINE land cover database, the AGROTOPO soil database, the digital climate map of Hungary and the long-term county based time series of wheat and maize yields were performed in this study. Nearly 10,000 random points were inserted into the arable land layer of the CORINE database and all data from the analysed layers were joined to the points. Average yield data of wheat and maize between 1960 and 2005 were analysed from this database with soil types and climate types as independent variables. Average yields were calculated for each year and for both crops and the averages were ranked. Ranks were statistically evaluated across years for each soil and climate types by calculating average rank, lower and upper quartiles and ranges between the quartiles. A tentative climate sensitivity index were calculated to delineate soils and regions within Hungary which show large responses in the yield of the two major crops to the yearly changes of the weather conditions. Presumably, these soils will be more sensitive to the long-term climatic changes, too.
23787092|Field emergence of winter triticale seeds with sprouting damage, cv. Bogo, Moreno and Vero, differing in their tendency to sprout, was investigated in two-factor, split-plot field experiments in the years 1998-2000. Field emergence determined on the 21st day after seeding ranged from 33.9 % to 80.8 %. The lowest field emergence values and germination rates, established on the basis of Maguire's coefficient, were noted for seeds with the greatest sprouting damage, which during the induced sprouting developed a shoot and three roots. A significant interaction between the degrees of sprouting damage and the cultivars, and a significant effect of sprouting damage on field emergence were found. Considering the estimated components of variance, the greatest influence on field emergence was exerted by sprouting damage, which accounted for 66.0 % - 87.3 % of the total variation.
23783749|Intermedium gene interaction promoting lateral floret development in barley was studied in three- or four-gene F2 segregations from double mutant constellations of intermedium genes combined in crosses. The study was based on four independently inherited loci, the three recessive int-a, int-c, and int-d, and the semidominant Int-d, represented by 2, 2, 1, and 2 alleles, respectively. Three-gene crosses, totally 20, were based on the 7 intermedium genes a9, a27, c62, c63, d12, d36, and e65; the only four-gene cross studied included a9, c63, d12 and e65. The following characters were studied on the main spike, on adequate numbers of plants: awn development on lateral florets, relative to the main florets; fertility of lateral florets; kernel development of lateral florets; culm length to spike basis; spike length. Whereas the straw length and spike length characters showed transgressive distributions, the three lateral floret characters showed enhancement effects over the whole range of character grades, indicating that the enhancement effects are specific for the intermedium genes. The enhancement effects differ among the 20 combinations in the three-gene segregations, differing intermedium genes offering differing bases for enhancement effects. An apparent progressive enhancement for lateral floret characters was indicated when a fourth intermedium gene was introduced into the segregation, in the four-gene cross, particularly for fertility and seed size. The progressive enhancement implications for plant breeding in six-rowed barley.
90003123|The objective of our research was to examine the volume of the private capital and the differences between the combinations of the private capital according to regions, to enterprising models and to production trends between 2002 and 2004. Also our aim was to examine the relationship between the private capital and the profit and within that in differently sized models (SGM and agricultural land) in the examined period of time. We analysed the problem with a regression analysis. On making the calculations we have used the database of the agricultural test units information system run by the Agricultural Research Institute.
23785267|Effects of NaCl salinity on photosynthesis and respiration were studied in wheat (Triticum aestivum) cv. `Chinese Spring' (abbreviated as CS) and the amphiploid and 5E disomic addition line of CS with wheatgrass (Lophopyrum elongatum), a wild facultative halophyte. Only the amphiploid showed NaCl tolerance based on seedling growth. The net photosynthetic CO2 assimilation measured by the rate of O2 evolution was decreased and chlorophyll a/b ratio increased in CS under the presence of 0.4 M NaCl, but no such changes occurred in the amphiploid and 5E disomic addition line. The amounts of total soluble protein and ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) per fresh weight were increased in all the lines, while the relative amount of Rubisco per protein remained unchanged. Rubisco specific activity was inhibited in all the lines but Rubisco activity per fresh weight did not change. The total respiratory electron flow and the flow through the cytochrome pathway were increased in CS under the salinity condition, while no changes occurred in both amphiploid and 5E disomic addition lines. The sustained CO2 assimilation, the stability of the light-harvesting photosystem II complex and the normal level of respiratory electron flow through the cytochrome pathway attested the NaCl tolerance in the amphiploid. A positive effect of chromosome 5 on salinity tolerance was suggested by the stability of the photosystem II complex and the cytochrome pathway under the salinity condition.
23790001|Preliminary environment evaluation based on maize data from Randomized Complete Block designs conducted in Florina and Thessaloniki, allowed the comparative analysis of newer and older Greek barley varieties. Yield measurements were followed by additional measurements of field characteristics that involved plant height in March, total plant height at maturity, vegetative period in days, susceptibility to lodging, kernel protein (%), 1000-kernel weight, number of tillers, number of kernels per ear and length of ear. Yield was additionally analyzed in components according to honeycomb methodology that depict yielding performance per se, resistance to stresses and responsiveness to inputs. According to honeycomb methodology, differences found between barley varieties studied are more reliable and breeders can depend on these findings to define the use of each variety according to differences in yield components. The yielding performance of newer barley varieties depends on the number of fertile tillers that contributes to higher individual plant yield and additionally, to high tolerance or resistance to various stresses and high responsiveness to inputs. Newer varieties Persefoni and Demetra exhibited great and stable yielding performance and high productivity dynamic that overyielded all other varieties, while Thermi although an old variety, proved to be a very good genetic material with satisfactory characteristics and yielding performance.
23785334|A greenhouse study was conducted to compare three wheat cultivars for fertilizer-N (applied as 15N-labelled ammonium sulphate) and soil-N uptake at different growth stages. Differences were observed for bread wheat and durum wheat for different plant parameters. Contribution of fertilizer-N to the total plant-N of the three wheat cultivars ranged between 4.1 and 23.7%. Applied fertilizer N had a significant bearing on the plant-uptake of soil-N resulting in substantial added nitrogen interaction (ANI); the interaction of the two N sources was variable for the three wheat cultivars. Although the three wheat cultivars differed in uptake of fertilizer N applied at different growth stages, durum was least efficient in making use of N applied at anthesis. Losses of N applied at different growth stages varied (22-56%), but were maximum from that applied at anthesis. Post-anthesis dry matter accumulation (PADMA) and post-anthesis N uptake (PANU) were more for bread wheat than durum wheat and seemed to contribute significantly to higher dry matter and N yield in the former.
23785252|Two pot experiments were performed to investigate the effects of water deficit and competition on net photosynthesis (Pn) of spring wheat cv. Alexandria and two C3 annual weed species (Phalaris minor Retz., Chenopodium album L.). The treatments tested included pure stands of wheat and weed species and a mixture containing them in equal proportions combined factorially with two water deficit treatments (well watered, watering withheld to maintain soil moisture at 50% of field capacity during short periods following the expansion of leaf 5 and the flag leaf of wheat). Water deficit significantly decreased Pn of all species, the observed decreases being slightly greater in wheat and P. minor than in C. album. The decreases in Pn were mainly due to decreases in stomatal conductance (gs), but changes in the concentration of sub-stomatal CO2 (Ci) indicated that non stomatal factors were also responsible, particularly in P. minor. In wheat and C. album, but not in P. minor, Pn recovered following re-watering. In the experiment with C. album the effect of interspecific competition was to increase Pn of wheat and decrease Pn of the weed. This was observed in well-watered plants and those subjected to water deficit. In the experiment with P. minor the effects of interspecific competition on Pn varied with growth stage and were modified by water deficit. An early deficit increased the relative competitive ability of the weed, and a late deficit increased the relative competitive ability of the wheat.
23786115|In the first phase of experiments, performance characteristics of two alternative analytical methods used for the determination of zearalenone and its metabolites were assessed in presented study. Extraction of ground grains with acetonitrile-water (84/16, v/v) mixture followed by clean-up using GPC BioBeads S-X3 soft gel were employed prior to HPLC (reversed phase column C18). The use of ELISA method allowed direct, highly sensitive measurement of zearalenone levels in crude extracts. For ELISA method, extraction with methanol-water (70/30, v/v) without any clean-up was used. Compared to HPLC/FLD method, the precision of ELISA method was inferior. The second part of study was concerned with toxic potential of two isolates of Fusarium culmorum (W. G. Sm.) Sacc. under field conditions. Analyses of wheat varieties tested for the content of zearalenone were carried out. Levels of zearalenone in wheat inoculated by more toxic isolate (B) ranged from 309.1 to 2162.7 g/kg. These values were higher almost by 2 orders of magnitude compared to levels found in samples inoculated with isolate A. Wheat variety SPARTA was identified as the most resistant against fungal attack from all checked varieties.
23784026|The effect of gamma-ray radiation treatment on wheat  triticale crossability and the frequency of F1 embryo necrosis and regeneration was studied. The triticale pollen was irradiated at 1 kR, 2kR, and 4kR using a 60Co source. The number of seed set significantly decreased with increase in radiation dosage. The 1kR and 2 kR dose treatment resulted in significant reduction of the frequency of embryo necrosis wich is a limiting factor of embryo regeneration in vitro. No embryo was obtained with 4kR radiation.
23779176|Penjamo and Siete Cerros, Mexican spring wheat varieties were tested on calciferous meadow soil well supplied with easily absorbable nutrients at different sowing rates /3,5 5,0 and 6,5 million kernels/ha/ and under different fertilizer doses /, 220, 440 kg/ha NPK/. Trials were conducted under unirrigated and irrigated /sprinkling irrigation/ conditions. We came to the following conclusions: 1/ Under our experimental conditions neither of the varieties showed significant reaction to fertilizer. They gave the highest yield on unfertilized plots. 2/ Grain-yield increased in parallel with increased sowing rate. For both varieties 6,5 million kernels/ha proved to be optimal. 3/ Irrigation led to mild /0 to 6q1/ha/yield increase because of the relatively wet weather. Penjamo responded to irrigation better than Siete Cerros. 4/ The yield of Siete Cerros was 2 to 4 q1/ha higher than that of Penjamo, although Siete Cerros proved to be susceptible to Fusarium. Both varieties gave acceptable yield /44 to 48 q1/ha/in spite of the fact that their yield was 10 to 15 q1/ha less than that of the winter wheats grown under the same conditions. This fact must be due to the shorter breeding season. In our recent experiments /on soils with less nutrients/ we found Neffects and higher yields than earlier /60 q1/ha/. According to our results Penjamo and Siete Cerros can be grown with success - if necessary - under our conditions as well.
23787288|Triticum turgidum ssp. polonicum IC12196 is a GA3-insensitive semi-dwarf accession. To assess allelic relationships, IC12196 was hybridized with the GA3-insensitive cultivar Cando (Rht-Blb), with the tall variety LD222 (Rht-Bla), and with the GA3-sensitive semi-dwarf durum wheat variety Icaro (Rht 18). The GA3-response of F2 seedlings from the cross, Icaro/IC12196 segregated into the ratio, 3 (insensitive): 1 (sensitive). All F2 seedlings from the cross, Cando/IC12196 were GA3-insensitive. It is evident that a single dominant gene, allelic to Rht-Blb on chromosome 4B, determines the GA3-insensitivity of IC12196. The allele may be either Rht-Blb itself or one of the alternative alleles at Rht-Bl locus, although further experiments will be required to distinguish between these possibilities. The allele at the Rht-Bl locus of IC12196 was tentatively designated as Rht-BlIC12196. IC12196 may be alternative source of semi-dwarfism at the locus Rht-Bl, and it may have potential for the development of durum wheat varieties.
23792367|Twenty-four promising drought tolerant genotypes of IRRI and different parts of India were evaluated for genetic variability and drought susceptibility index (DSI) for 12 quality characters and grain yield under irrigated (E 1 ) and drought (E 2 ) conditions. In the present study differences among the genotypes are highly significant for all the characters; between the environments head rice recovery, alkali spreading value, water uptake, kernel length after cooking and yield were significant, while genotype x environment interaction was only significant for hulling, milling, head rice recovery and water uptake. Head rice recovery, alkali spreading value, water uptake and amylose content were observed to be governed by additive gene action under both the environments. Grain yield was positively correlated with kernel width and amylose content under stress environment while, kernel width was positively correlated with hulling and milling and kernel length was correlated with amylose content. The path coefficient analysis revealed that only kernel width in both the environments and amylose content in E 2 had positive direct effect on yield. Most of the genotypes expressed low DSI value (<1) for yield and quality characters. However, Swarna and IR 78877-181-B-1-2 were identified as stable genotypes with low DSI value for seed yield and quality characters.
23786834|Isozyme analysis and both PCR methods with random (RAPD-PCR) and random-like (UP-PCR) primers are suitable for intraspecific identification and phylogenetic studies in F. avenaceum and F. oxysporum. RAPD-PCR and UP-PCR can also be used for identification of Fusarium species. rDNA RFLP and rDNA sequence analyses were more suitable for identification and phylogenetic studies at species level, but their resolution at strain level was clearly poorer than in RAPD-PCR and UP-PCR analyses.
23782806|The inheritance of frost resistance and winter hardiness was studied under nursery and phytotronic conditions. The artificial and natural tests were carried out on a Chinese Spring/Cheyenne chromosome substitution series. Comparing the phytotronic frost testing and nursery winter hardiness it can be seen that the chromosomes of the 5th homoeologous group and the 2B and 4B chromosomes play an important role in both environments. Considerable differences were also observed between two conditions. The results of the experiments suggest that frost resistance and winter hardiness are not controlled by entirely the same genes.
90003213|In this study the
23782841|Sensitivity of ultrasonic velocity in stalk to lodging susceptibility in wheat and triticale has been established. The parameter measured in two low internodes was found to be considerably lower in easily lodging cultivars than in those of erect stand. The ultrasonic method, due to its easy and fast operation, may be then considered as an aid to selection of cereal plants for standability.
23789831|Wheat flour tortillas are the fastest growing segment of the North American baking industry. As this market grows, the search for healthier alternatives to traditional foods also increases. Nutritionally, flour tortillas are rich in carbohydrates that generate a high glycemic index subsequent to ingestion, demonstrating a behaviour similar to white bread. Hence, the formulation of more nutritious tortillas, with higher levels of protein, dietary fiber and antioxidants, appears to be promising. Although the number of publications concerning the nutritional improvement of flour tortillas is limited, attempts utilizing soybean, whole wheat, and triticale flours have been reported. Additionally, as different ingredients are added to traditional formulations, the texture is very likely to be affected, as are the shelf-life and other sensory properties. Among other additives, hydrocolloids have been reported to improve the textural qualities of bakery goods and flour tortillas. They comprise a number of water-soluble polysaccharides with varied chemical structures providing a range of functional properties that make them suitable to this application. This paper discusses the tortilla market, reviews research attempting to develop novel and nutritious products. and discusses the application of hydrocolloids as texture improvers.
23781347|Two new high protein sources of wheat, PP 1/9119 /up to 21%/ and GK TISZATJ were identified and used in a breeding programme. High protein concentrates in the endosperm of these wheats. The obtained crosses were evaluated for yield, quality, protein and lysine, respectively. For the protein and lysine screening, a combined NIR-Videodensitometer system was used. Some -ray dwarf mutants were also produced and evaluated in the same manner. Lines from the PP  variety with improved protein could be selected. However, the protein content gradually diminished in the advanced generations. A selection of a strain was developed into a high protein, high quality bread wheat variety /GK TISZATJ/. High lysine strains were not found in the studied populations. Some of the dwarf mutants had high lysine in their kernels, but their protein content and yield were poor. Some of the studied lines originating from normal protein wheats have a relatively high protein content and remarkable yield potential. Consequently, both their protein and lysine production /yield per hectare/ are promising. The farinograph values /breadmaking quality/ of these lines are also fair, good or very good. The total basic amino acid content is an unsuitable criterion of lysine level, since there is a considerable variation in the total basic amino acid/lysine ratio of wheat.
23783814|The investigation was undertaken for standardising an efficient and reproducible tissue culture system for subsequent improvement programmes throught somaclonal variation in forage sorghum, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. Immature inflorescences of a pureline derivative from Sorghum x Sudan grass hybridization SSG59-3 were used. Segments of inflorescence plated on modified LS produced profuse callus (81%) which on transfer to modified MS showed 47-95% plantlet regeneration. Five weeks old callus gave 100% plant regeneration which decreased with ageing of the callus. Anatomical examination of the regenerating callus suggested that plant regeneration occured through embryogenesis.
90002728|We explore the information associated with soil water retention included in the large scale soil maps of Hungary. We employed factor analysis to investigate the role of different commonly measured soil properties - namely sand and clay content, organic matter content, pH and CaCO3 content - on determining soil water retention at different pF values (pF0, pF2.5, pF4.2 and pF6.2). Analyses were performed on all the samples of the database, that contains 3821 soil horizons of diverse soil types, as well as a selection of the horizons belonging to Chernozem soils of the database. Results show considerable differences of water retention characteristics of Chernozems, mainly at pF0. This suggests that a separate analysis for different soil types might be appropriate in order to characterize the impact of measured soil properties on water retention.
23787242|The current commercial broomcorn (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) production is based on open-pollinated cultivars. Having in mind the the success of F1 hybrids in the case of grain sorghum, the purpose of this study has been to estimate the hybrid vigor in broomcorn. Locally adapted broomcorn inbred lines were selected for hand crossing in order to obtain experimental F1 hybrids. Six cytoplasmic-genic male sterile lines were used as male parents and croseed with six pollinators using the line x tester model. The resulting 36 experimental F1 hybrids along with their parents were studied for plant height and its components as well as for weight and quality of panicle. Hybrid vigor was calculated and the best performing hybrids were identified. The line x tester analysis provided the estimation of gene effects for different quantitative traits. The correlation between the performances of parental lines as compared to their hybrids was also calculated. The results indicate that broomcorn demonstrate a positive hybrid vigor for most of the characters studied. Due to the prevailing additive gene effect for most of the characters studied the best performing hybrids were those involving superior parental lines.
23783774|In studies of the effects of production factors on seed yield of red fescue and on the quality of seed yield the following conclusions were reached: 1. The nutrient supply of plant stand has a decisive role in prevailing of genetically determined productivity. The studied nutrients and the effects of their combinations were the following in due course: NPK, NP, N, NK, PK and K. 2. Based on the results it can be stated that the nitrogen fertilizer has got a decisive role not only in the studied yield components but also in the quantity and quality of the seed yield. 3. The depressive effect of the high dose N fertilizer (270 kg/ha) on the quantity and quality of seed yield was proven. 4. Besides given conditions of the site the phosphorus and potassium fertilizers had a reliable, positive effect on the seed yield of the studied grass species, although this effect was not so high as that of the nitrogen fertilizer. 5. Taking the average of the three years and all the other factors the efficiency of the nitrogen fertilizer applied in two doses (1/3 - early spring, 2/3 - end of winter) was reliably higher (P= 5 % significance) than the efficiency of nitrogen fertilizers applied in one or three doses. 6. The quantity of nitrogen fertilizer applied at the end of winter or early spring has a decisive role on the efficiency of quantity of seed yield and the total fertilization system. 7. The application of a higher grass stand density is an efficient way of increase of seed yield. 8. The seed yield of red fescue is increased significantly by the adequate water supply (rainfall + irrigation). 9. The results of the production analysis refer to the fact that in selection of red fescue it is useful to improve among others the number of fertile shoots and the panicle productivity in the interest of increase of seed yield.
90002780|This study focuses on the total cadmium, copper, nickel and zinc content of the soil in pot experiments as well as the corresponding metal contents in the ragweed plants growing on the aforementioned soils. By the end of the growing season, the percentage of metal content decreased in the pot soils. In comparison with the control plants, the treatment with 100 mg kg
23782963|There is a great deal of variation between varieties of Zea Mays in their response to Al-toxicity estimated from plantlet rootgrowth. On the whole material from Central Africa is 60 % more tolerant than European presumably as an adaptive response to Al-toxicity which is common in tropical soils. The genotypical component in Al-tolerance variation appears as high.
90003146|In Middle East and North Africa (MENA) the natural water supply is very important for water consumption of population and the agricultural sector. The total available freshwater in MENA region is 467 billion m
90002969|The paper compares gross margins in wheat, maize and soybean production in order to analyse relationship between soil quality and economic results. The area of analysis is Pannonian subregions of Croatia. Stochastic simulation model have been created. The results indicate low variability of yield and higher gross margins in the subregions P1 and P2, ones with more favourable soil quality. The paper also discuss limitations of the (non)existing soil and agro economic data bases as obstacles in decision making on micro (farm) and macro (agricultural policy) level.
90002657|Wheat quality is highly influenced by soil and weather factors such as the amount and pattern of the precipitation during grain harvest. Wet gluten (WG) and protein content (PC), gluten spreading (GS), Hagberg falling number (FN), farinographic value (FV), ICC stability and hardness index (HI) of 13 commercially grown wheat (
23790074|Corn reddening (CR) was observed for the first time in Serbia in 1957. After that, it occurred periodically, mainly in the region of Banat. In 2002 and 2003, a severe outbreak happened in late July / early August. Initial symptoms were the occurrence of a red-violet color on the leaves, leaf sheaths, husks and the bare portion of internodes. The symptoms typically appeared at the milk maturity stage and the discoloration was the most intensive at top leaves, around the main vein and along the edges, from leaf base to tip. Soon after the occurrence of the symptoms, the affected plants wilted, the foliage dried rapidly, the red pigmentation disappeared for a greater part and finally plant died off. The ears were underdeveloped and gummous and kernels were shriveled and unfilled. Several experiments were conducted to determine a possible connection between CR occurrence and the studied factors. Corn stunt spiroplasma was not identified in the CR-affected plants, and there was no apparent relationship between CR and soil fertility or nematode species identified in soil and plant samples. Insecticide-treated plots had lower CR incidence than untreated (control) plots, indicating that biotic factors could be involved.
90003075|Improvement of cultivation technology is a crucial element in profitable wheat production. Field studies were conducted in two experimental years to examine the effect of low-, medium- and high input levels (models with increasing fertilization combined with fungicide treatments) on grain yield and flour quality traits of winter wheat. Elevating fertilization increased the grain yield; however, this was true at the highest rate (NPK 180+90+90 kg ha
23783030|An isoelectric focusing and gel staining method has been developed which allows the genetic control of part of the hexokinase activity in wheat grains to be located on chromosomes 3BS and 3DS. No variation for these isozymes was observed among 28 hexaploid wheat varieties, but variants at both HK-A2 and HK-D2 loci are present in a synthetic hexaploid.
23777686|By interspecific hybridization in all possible combinations the evolutionary relationships between 5 main species of Secale were followed determining seed set, chromosome pairing and pollen fertility. 1. Low cross compatibility proved S. silvestre to be not closely related to any other Secale species. 2. Desynapsis at metaphase I was found in S. vavilovii, S. africanum and S. montanum in various frequencies. S. montanum showed the lowest (38.8 %) frequency of 7 bivalents followed by S. africanum (71.7 %) and S. vavilovii (85.6 %). 3. Interspecific hybrids showed poor pollen formation and low seed set except for the S. africanum  S. montanum hybrid which showed 97 % pollen fertility and 0.81 seed set per floret.
23786778|Wheat flowers are generally observed first in the middle of the spike. After pollination, the anthers grow out of the floret. In general, wheat flowers are open (chasmogamy). However, in several varieties the flowers remain closed (cleistogamy). In this study, we surveyed the genetic control of and influence of environmental conditions on cleistogamy. It appeared that cleistogamy was controlled by three recessive genes and cleistogamous plants tended to have short spikes. Although scarcely any extruded anthers were on field-grown cleistogamous plants, culture of spikes at 10 C or 20 C yielded an increased number of extruded anthers. The number of extruded anthers tended to be higher under illumination than in darkness, but the difference was not significant.
23784212|The distribution of mitotic chromosome numbers and changes in the meiotic chromosome pairing in the vegetative progenies of Agropyron repens cv. Purdue somaclones were analyzed. Mitotic chromosome variability showed an increase at both cell (SC1-3 somaclones) and plant (SC2) level. Nevertheless, from the progenies of the somaclone SC2, a stable hipoploid clone with a chromosome number of 2n = 38 was selected. The numbers of aneuploid cells in the root tips of vegetative clones also showed an increase. In the analysis of meiotic chromosome pairing, a shift towards the appearance of multivalents (quadrivalents, hexavalents, octovalents) was ob- served.
90002978|Quality traits are essential for commercial sweet corn production. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of environment on sweet corn quality traits potential. The trials with ten sugary hybrids were set up at two locations in 2006 and 2007. Significant effects of environment were obtained for kernel water, sucrose, glucose, fructose and total sugar content. Lowest environmental means for kernel water and sugars content were associated with stress conditions due to extreme drought and heat. Hybrids grown in suitable growing conditions and harvested at prime maturity had significantly higher kernel total sugar content.
23783768|Nine octoploid and two hexaploid triticales were evaluated for meiotic behaviour, pollen fertility and floret fertility, along with their wheat and rye parents. Considerable extent of variability in meiotic stability was observed in the octoploid primary triticales. The most common abnormality observed was the occurrence of univalents. Meiotic stability was appreciable in two hexaploid triticales, PMT-10 [(HD-4545  JNK-184)F11  Russian rye] and PMT-11 [(HD-4545  JNK-184)F12  Russoam rye], and also an octoploid, PMT-5 (UP-262  Russian rye). The wheat parents showed remarkably superior meiotic stability over the triticales and Russian rye. Octoploid triticales revealed better floret fertility (grain set per floret) than the hexaploids. Correlation analysis showed absence of significant associations among the three parameters, namely meiotic stability, pollen fertility and floret fertility in the primary triticales.
90002732|The results of a small-pot experiment of cadmium-loading (5 mg kg
23785343|In this research, 13 out of 60 genotypes carried only gliadin band 42, while 16 genotypes possessed only gliadin band 45. Twenty-eight of remaining genotypes had both gliadin 42 and 45. Three genotypes carried neither gliadin band 42 nor gliadin band 45. When the genotypes examined with respect to glume color, 13 genotypes were classified as buff glumed. All these 13 genotypes had gliadin band 42. Of the 16 white-glumed, 15 genotypes had gliadin band 45 present. Only one genotype had gliadin band 42 present. We concluded that electrophoretic analysis in combination with glume color may be used in segregating populations, and such reliable markers should be evaluated with SDS-sedimentation test for developing to cooking quality in durum wheat breeding programs.
23783841|Wheat germplasm produced through wide hybridization and three wheat varieties were compared for salt-tolerance potential under field conditions at an electrical conductivity varying between 6-10 dS/m. Comparative performance of the same material with direct sowing and transplanting and possible effects of the cultivation method on the concentration of sodium (Na+) and potassium (K+) was also studied. There was little difference in the yield components of the salt-tolerant wheats and lines, except for mean grain yield, which was significantly reduced in cultivated wheat varieties growing under saline fields compared with non-saline fields. Differences due to the method of cultivating plants were also nonsignificant in most cases. Two lines produced significantly higher yields under saline conditions compared with wheat variety LU-26 that was used as a salt-tolerant check. The values for K at the seedling stage and those for the K/Na ratio at seedling and heading stages were significantly higher with direct sowing compared to transplanting. The overall performance of the new germplasm under saline fields was better than that of the salt-tolerant wheat varietiy LU-26.
23786247|Laboratory experiments were conducted to study the effect of different concentrations of some plant growth hormones (GA3, IAA, and IBA) on germination of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seeds and seedling vigour under saline conditions. The hormones were administered through seed soaking in aqueous solutions of different concentrations. As expected, germination of seeds decreased with the soil salinity. Negative effects of soil salinity on seed germination were significantly mitigated by hormone treatment. At 200 ppm, GA3 caused 100% seed germination at an electrical conductivity of 13.11 dSm1. Auxins (IAA and IBA) also enhanced the germination at moderate salinity (E.C. 8.44 dSm1) but were unable to cause 100% germination. In normal soil, GA3 and IBA at 100 and 150 ppm, respectively, caused an increase of 10 and 22% in total dry weight of seedling, while IAA treatment had no significant effect. At low (5.41 dSm1) and moderate (8.44 dSm1) salinity, IAA at 50 and IBA at 10 ppm enhanced the seedling dry matter yield by 17-28%, whereas the increase was only 5-9% with GA3 at 10 ppm. Seed soaking in 10ppm GA3 and 50 ppm IAA solutions caused 36 to 43% increase in dry weight at E.C. 13.11 dSm1.
90003313|Fungicide application is one measure available to reduce the risk of Fusarium head blight (FHB) and mycotoxin contamination in barley. The stage at or near anthesis, or at full head emergence, is generally thought to be optimal for fungicide application, regardless of cultivar. However, we have found that the most critical time for
90003011|Cervid infection by giant liver fluke (
90003368|Agricultural production is limited primarily by environmental stresses among those the most important is water deficiency. The safety of wheat production requires the propagation of drought tolerant cultivars. Hybridization between related species makes it possible to transfer desirable traits from one species into another. Barley - known to have good drought tolerance - is a potential gene source for wheat improvement. Lines developed from wheat/barley hybrids were investigated to determine how the added barley chromosomes (segments) influence drought tolerance in wheat. Data were obtained for anthesis- and maturity date, plant height, root/shoot ratio and components of grain yield. On the basis of our data new lines with valuable agronomic traits can be selected which could be used in wheat breeding programsand consequently in wheat production.
23781414|Plant yields and yield components were obtained of F1 progenies of 20 barley strains introduced from Europe, including high protein, hullless and hooded types, crossed onto the three tester strains Herta, Betzes and Hector. Based on superior yield performance of their progenies, strains adaptable to eastern Canada were selected. Results of four factorial analyses indicated that general combining ability (G.C.A.) and specific combining ability (S.C.A.) values were highly significant for most yield components measured. The higher F values obtained for G.C.A. compared to S.C.A. indicated the prevalence of additive genetic effects.
23784273|The effects of exogenous Gibberellic Acid (GA3) on first leaf length in seven oat cultivars were observed. Different responses were found. At 15ppm GA3 same cultivars exhibited near-insensitivity to GA3. Further investigations are required to determine the genetic basis of this GA3 near-insensitivity.
23786112|The effect of incorporating fermented cassava flour into wheat bread quality was investigated. Peeled cassava roots were chopped, fermented in water and dried for seven days before ground into flour, a process that reduced the cyanide content of cassava from 46mg/Kg to 3.6mg/Kg. Wholemeal wheat flour was prepared from different groups of wheat procured from National Plant Breeding Research Station, Njoro. For preparation of composite flours, wheat flour and fermented cassava flour were mixed in the ratios from 100% wheat flour to 100% cassava flour. Protein content, dough properties, gluten content, loaf volume and organoleptic judgement (crust color, internal color, crumb color, taste and aroma, texture, structure and general acceptability) of baked breads were evaluated. Protein content decreased with increase in the level of cassava substitution, except for the 10% cassava composite flour. Up to 20% cassava flour level of substitution had adequate amount of protein required to produce loaves of acceptable volume and texture. Water absorption, peak time, stability and tolerance index increased with increase in the cassava flour level. These increases were not significant up to 50% level of substitution. The decreases in gluten content and loaf volume were not significant at 10% and 20% cassava flour level of substitution respectively. Organoleptic judgement showed a decrease in the quality of breads, though the decrease was not significant at 20% level.
90003147|The paper presents two-year examinations (2002-2003) on the effects of the agrozel type of zeolite and the organo-mineral fertilisers incorporated into the soil on microelement (Fe, Mn, Cu, Zn, B) concentration of apple leaves. The results showed that the status of the elements mentioned was highly justifiably affected by the interaction of the fertilisers and apple cultivars used.
90003297|A survey of
23785274|A new regression method of stability estimation was proposed. The ascendant ranged variables x and y were its basis. A ranging was carried out to each genotype, as the independent value x (environments) accepted the magnitudes of the numbers natural row. The statistics discussed in the present study: dynamic regression coefficient and dynamic variance were differentiated statistically and classificatory. Stability defined by the method proposed was characterized genotypically individual, dynamic in character, statistically differentiated and universally comparable. The method was illustrated by an example.
23785340|Senescence patterns in stalk internode pith were rated, and concentrations of ions and proteins, and protein profiles in SDS-PAGE gels in internodes 7 and 9 (I7, I9) at developmental stages from V9 to R6 were determined in five shrunken2 (sh2) sweet maize (Zea mays L.) inbreds. Senescence in shanks and cobs was rated at R3 and R6. There was no effect due to inbred. Senescence rating increased with plant age. Concentrations of total nitrogen in a Kjeldhal digest, K+, and SO42 decreased with plant age in both years. Generally there were fewer protein bands on SDS-PAGE gels in 1995 than 1996. In 1995, numbers of protein bands at R6 were higher than at V9 or VT for I7 or I9, respectively. In 1996, numbers of bands in I7 and I9 decreased at V9 or VT to R6. Low protein masses averaged 24 kD for all inbreds in both years, and did not fluctuate with developmental stage. In 1995, high protein masses in I7 and I9 increased from V9 or VT through R3 and decreased by R6. In 1996, high protein masses in I7 were lower at R6 than V9, and in I9 were higher at R6 than at V9. There were only occasional instances where ion or protein concentrations were correlated with senescence rating. Results suggest that these inbreds should contribute similar characteristics in crosses.
23787299|In acid soils, aluminium toxicity is the primary stress factor limiting the growth and yield of plants. The objective of this study was to examine the effects of aluminium (A1) and phosphate (P) treatments on the growth and potassium uptake of roots and transport toward the shoots in Al-sensitive and Al-tolerant cereal species. Seedlings were grown hydroponically at pH 4.1 in the presence and absence of Al and P. Al reduced root growth in the order of Al-tolerance (rye>triticale>common wheat>durum wheat) in the growth solution. Shoot growth was influenced (reduced) at 50 M Al concentration only in cultivars GK Betadur and Jubilejnaja 50. In the short-term (6h) K+(86Rb) uptake experiments, P reduced the specific stimulatory effect of Al on K+(86Rb) influx anomaly of the roots, which indicates a definite Al-P interaction both in external and internal detoxification of Al. Results show that PO4-P in the growth solution enabled plants to overcome Al toxicity symptoms; however, different species respond differently to P-application.
90003505|In this investigation 6 divergent lines of winter wheat were analyzed by using method of chromatography for identification of presence of free amino acids. The method of spectrophotometry was used for establishing concentration of identified amino acids. Analysis of quantity of free amino acid indicated theirs high concentration (over the 100 mg/ml) in wheat KG-6, KG-3008-1, KG-3597 and, KG-3/7-93 and in wheat lines KG-1 (over 90 mg/ml). By using chromatography in wheat grain established that tryptophan, valine, norvaline, threonine, proline and glutamic acid were the most prevalent among free amino acids:. Analysis of content of single amino acid in wheat grains showed that concentration of glutamic acid was the highest in KG-3008-1 (8.75 mg/ml). The essential amino acids: valine, threonine present in ratio of concentration from 1.0 to 2.0 mg/ml. Presence of sarcozin, norvalin and tryptophan in KG-3597 wheat line was in low concentration i.e. in traces.
23787302|Properties of composite dough were investigated on blends of Kenyan bread wheat and upto 20% of each of the following non-wheat flours: maize, sorghum, cassava, sweet potato, arrowroot, banana, cowpea, soybean, and sunflower. Composite doughts were prepared from the various blends and evaluated on farinograph for water absorption, peak time, tolerance and stability. Non-wheat flours generally increased farinograph characteristics of wheat to varying extents depending on replacement level and type of non-wheat flour used. The effects of various non-wheat flours on dough quality vary considerably and can be summarized as follows: sweet potato < maize < banana < cassava < arrowroot < cowpea, <sorghum < soybean, sunflower. However, dough prepared from the following composite flours were still acceptable: Wheat/maize (80/20); Wheat/sorghum (85:15); Wheat/cassava (80:20); Wheat/sweet potatoes (85:15); Wheat/arrowroot (15%); Wheat/banana (90:10); Wheat/cowpea (90:10); Wheat/Soya (95:5); and Wheat/sunflower (90:10). It was concluded that both cereals and tuber crops investigated are high potential low level partial substitutes for wheat. This would increase the nutritive value of bread and spread out the utilization of limited available wheat, in order to would improve health and food resources. The data is therefore crucial to the baking and milling industry for selecting most suitable composite flour for sustainable commercial bread production, a measure that would put bulk of Africa's food crops into the local market.
90003452|We carried out small plot soil fertilization trials on winter wheat applying different doses of vinasse. Vinasse is a by-product of alcohol production and is used for nutrient source due to its considerable nitrogen and potassium content. Besides valuable components (6-7m% K, 2.2-2.8m% N, 0.5-1.2m% Ca, 250-300 mg/kg Zn and other trace elements), vinasse contains considerable quantities of sodium (1.0-2.5m%), which deteriorates physical and plant nutritional capacities of soils if it is accumulated there. We applied vinasse doses of 2; 5; 10; and 20 t/ha in our trials. Higher vinasse doses reduced the yield, which could be confirmed mathematically. Vinasse doses of 10 t/ha and 20 t/ha produced yield losses of 13 % and 20 % due to stress. Yield decreasing effect of vinasse was significant at doses of 10t and 20t/ha. Up to 5t/ha vinasse doses produced lesser increase in raw protein. Maximum amount of raw protein content could be measured at doses of 5 t/ha. Higher doses than that induced stress and as a result a decrease in the raw protein content could be measured. At the 20 t/ha vinasse dose a significant decrease of raw protein content could be measured.
90002328|The studies aimed to acquire the widest possible information on the annual flight in Hungary of the European corn borer (ECB),
23782755|Leaf rust development was recorded on nineteen near isogenic lines and five varieties of wheat and their mixtures. Mixtures had lower disease than mean disease level of their pure line components grown as pure stands. The advantage of mixtures in restricting the development of disease was higher at higher disease pressure than when the disease level was low. The disease restriction in mixtures was positively associated with variance for disease level among their pure line components.
90002834|An evaluation of selected morphological traits (plant height, leaf width and length) for the sugar beet and weed beets cultivated in early BBCH phases (11-12, 14-15) in a pot trial on four different soils. The variability of monitored traits between sugar beet and weed beet depending on the soil qualities was not significant. The height of weed beet was significantly lower, in BBCH 11-12 (25 mm  9.81), growing from the glomerules affected by the total herbicides, for this variant field germination was also found to be significantly the lowest. 5 weeks after their emergence weed beets started to create stems, which were also probably influenced by favourable temperature conditions. The plant height, leaf length and width for sugar beet were greater in comparison with weed beet, though statistically insignificant. A considerable of weed beet variability in the monitored traits is apparently genetically conditioned.
23784220|Sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) was applied to study composition of D, C, and B hordein fractions of 33 Yugoslav barley cultivars. In the Hor3 locus two different D hordein patterns were present, in Hor1 eight C hordeins and in Hor2 seven B hordein patterns. On the basis of hordein formulas the cultivars were divided into 18 groups. Twelve cultivars showed unique hordein subunit composition while remainder fell into six groups of 2 to 9 cultivars. Intra-cultivar hordein polymorphism was found in two cultivars.
23787137|Glu-Am3 variability of fourteen accessions of diploid wheat species T. monococcum was analyzed by means of SDS-PAGE and PCR. Seven tentative alleles were scored based on LMW GS SDS-PAGE patterns. PCR-amplified DNA sequences corresponding to C-terminus of Glu-3 genes showed size variation that was in accordance with the B-LMW-GS variation as seen on SDS-PAGE for most of the accessions. The sequences of the amplified fragments showed that the amplicon size variation was caused solely by the expansion of the compound (CAG)n(CAA)n microsatellite within this region. In this paper we have provided evidence for the first time of a correlation between the polyglutamine microsatellite and the B-LMW GS electrophoretic phenotypes.
23782808|This article presents a method permitting to use the genetic information of T. monococcum and probably of T. dicoccum, too, for improving properties of soft wheat. In the crossing combination T. dicoccum  T. monococcum only very few caryopses are formed. They were cultivated and surrounded with 6 x - soft wheat. In F2 and F3 was payed main attention to highly sterile and well fertile Types. Sterile plants produce new forms. Among the fertile forms we were seeking for individuals worth being cultivated.
90003108|The aim of the research was to analyze a grassland stand based on its ecological demands. In this case we studied the botanical stand cover of ten-year-old extensively managed grassland, which was established using high species-diversity mixtures. Our testing field was located in the Botanist Garden of the Szent Istvn University, in Gdll. We arranged three kinds of mixtures in three replications. Following its establishment, no nutrient supplies or irrigation was applied to the field. We used cover assessment for the survey. By the end of the research, nine residual species remained from the established twenty six in the grassland. The residual plants were:
23777683|Reciprocal full-sib selection is being used in the development of single-cross or modified single-cross hybrids from two germplasm pools of maize. Since parental line performance becomes important for such a procedure to be successful, evaluation of lines is worthy of consideration even while full-sib crosses are being evaluated. In this study, parental S1 line performance was significantly correlated with full sib performance. Thus parental S1 performance permits selection of lines more likely to be successful parents but in addition provides supporting information of value in selecting superior full-sib crosses.
23789874|The study presents results of the research on the use of barley caryopses hardness for description and prediction of the malting quality. In 2001-2003, twelve barley varieties from three loclities were analyzed. The content of protein, starch and non-starch polysaccharides was assessed in all grain samples. Grain hardness was determined using a modified grain milling energy method (GME). Subsequently, the samples were micromalted, and the selected quality parameters were established. Statistically significant differences in the level of hardness between the varieties were found. However, the effect of locality and growing year was not proven. Share of a variety in the total variability of hardness reached nearly 47%. Correlations between the level of hardness and the selected quality parameters of barley and malt were calculated. Hardness values, such as the correlations with the malt extract (0.29), the Kolbach index (0.33), friability (0.48), -glucan content in wort (0.43), -glucan content in grain (0.53) and malting quality index (MQI) (0.42) were established.
23781571|After mass selection for grain yield per plant the frequency of awned types increased significantly. This increase could not be explained by a better adaptation of awned wheats to dry and warm conditions. Nor does the wide spacing appear to benefit especially the bearded wheats. It is concluded that the frequency of awned wheat lines increased after selection because of linkage with the yield genotype. Awns by themselves have no beneficial effect on grain yield nor kernel weight.
23783936|Several approaches have been recommended to improve the effectiveness of early-generation selection in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). This study was conducted to compare the response to direct early-generation selection for yield and indirect yield selection via its components using Fasoulas (1973) honeycomb design to select among F2 plants in two crosses of spring wheat. A selection intensity of 5% was imposed for each of high and low expressions of each trait among F2 plants and F3 lines. Realized heritabilities (RH) for different traits demonstrated the highest effectiveness for kernel weight (KW) selection and to lesser extent for number of kernels per spike (KS) and grain yield (GY) while the lowest effectiveness was for fertile tillers density (TD). Selection for KW was the most effective indirect selection for yield, while selection for TD was the least effective on yield. Furthermore, response of yield to the selection for KW was greater than direct selection for yield per se. The highest proportion of the high yielding lines in F4 resulted from selection for KW, then GY, KS, and the lowest was for TD. Modified early-generation selection; i.e, using Fasoulas' design to reduce environmental variation among F2 plants and selecting for heavy grains appears to be effective in improving wheat grain yield.
23777598|The soil cultivation alone showed no effect mobilizing the available nutrients. Together with fertilization, however, significant relationships were observed.
90003443|Water reserves in aeration zone of soil in lowlands depend on meteorological phenomena, vegetation cover and groundwater table. The integrated impact of these components determines the water reserve regime in the soil aeration zone during the whole hydrological year or vegetation period. If the water reserve regime in the soil aeration zone reaches the value corresponding to the hydrolimit of the wilting point (WP), it means the soil aridity stress. Identification of the water storage development in time and space is the fundamental source for forecasting of the soil drought onset. The methodology for forecasting of soil drought generation in simplified balance conditions of locality Trsten na Ostrove that occurred in 1994 is presented. It leans on the water storage development during the interval between precipitations or application of irrigation doses. The length of time interval when the stress of drought can be expected is derived of the date. In other words, it is time/number of days that passed since the last precipitation that may entail danger for the development of moisture regime. Data of direct monitoring of water storage in locality Trsten na Ostrove of 1994 serve this purpose (Figures1 and 2). By measuring water storage in the soil aeration zone and comparison of obtained values with the data of numerical simulation on the mathematical model (with inputs corresponding to the relevant localities) the decreasing storage development can be observed as a minimum to 4 days and maximum 8 days i.e. it is possible to forecast the soil aridity onset 4 to 8 days in advance. Such observation of the water storage decrease facilitates interventions in water storage at any stage by for example, irrigation.
23785289|Two field experiments were established in north-east Spain in order to compare yield and quality for different end-uses, and to ascertain the optimum stage for forage harvest of triticale Trujillo and barley Flika. The two genotypes had a similar grain yield, but the grain of Flika had higher mineral, protein and energy contents, and its straw was also richer in minerals than Trujillo. When forage was removed at the beginning of jointing and grain was harvested in the regrowths, Trujillo produced 23% more forage than Flika, but the reduction caused by clipping on grain yield was more severe in triticale than in barley. Forage removal reduced digestible crude protein content in the grain. Trujillo yielded more forage than Flika in some plant stages, and a similar amount in others. Forage yield was maximum at late milk-early dough stage. The forage of Flika was, on average, richer in minerals, protein and milk folder units. Otherwise, the forage of Trujillo had more fibre and lignin.
90003463|The climatic processes observed during the last three decades have a significant effect on the biotic and abiotic elements of Hungarian landscapes. According to our research, the changes of hydrological factors significantly influence the landscape in a relatively short period of time. The water shortage observed in the Danube-Tisza Interfluve has a stress-like effect not only on the vegetation but on soils and landcover at many places. We managed to show that the area of wetlands is continuously decreasing. The soils sensible to hydrological effects have transformed and we could observe forced migration in case of certain habitat types.
90003502|Nutritional impacts on the angiological state of 62 random patients of an ambulance case study have been studied. Body Mass Indices (BMI) and age (Year) has been correlated with the General Angiological State (GAS) of the patients. The results obtained support a conclusion, that human nutrition  especially BMI increment - represents a peculiar stress factor in relation with vascular diseases. Within the patients gender impacts have been evaluated. High correlations were found between overweight state and the severity of vascular diseases in case of male patients. Age of patients was in accordance with the general angiological state, however vascular problems due to age were increased significantly in the female lot only.
90003449|There is an increasing interest of the soil gas-phase dynamics due to the elevated greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. While soil surface flux is widely studied, there are relatively few studies investigating the concentration and transport of greenhouse gases within the soil profile. The object of our study was to investigate these processes by using undisturbed soil monoliths. Since gas sampling is difficult especially from waterlogged or wet soils, we have developed a silicone-tube soil air sampler for soil monoliths. Six undisturbed soil monoliths have been prepared from the nearby long-term experimental field of Keszthely University. Silicone tubes have been inserted across the soil columns at three depths and the soil air composition was measured during a growth season of seeded maize. We found that the gases of interest (CO
23790063|The variability of microsatellite markers of 16 genotypes of triticale ( Triticosecale Wittmack, 2n = 6x = 42, BBAARR) was studied. Five varieties from Poland (Gutek, Kitaro, Lamberto, Presto and Tornado), three from Germany (Lupus, Ticino and Triamant), one from Russia (Valentin-90) and seven translocation forms derived from cv. Presto (donors of good bread-making quality) were analysed. SSR markers localised on chromosomes of the A, B, D and R genomes were chosen from literature for analysis. Based on 48 SSR markers (27 wheat and 21 rye SSR markers) a dendrogram was calculated, which highly significantly differentiated the Valentine-90 genotype from all the other 15 genotypes split into three sub-clusters. The first one includes the cv. Gutek, Tornado, Presto and translocation forms of cv. Presto. The second sub-cluster consists of the cv. Kitaro, Lamberto, Ticino and Triamant. The third sub-cluster cluster consists of the cv. Lupus only. The diversity index (DI), the probabilities of identity (PI) and the polymorphic information content (PIC) of SSR markers were calculated. We detected 184 alleles from 48 markers with an average of 3.83 alleles per locus (ranging from 1 to 9 alleles per locus). The average polymorphic information content was 0.48 ranging between 0.00 and 0.85.
23787250|Rice leaf sheaths inoculated with Rhizoctonia solani (pathogen) and Pestalotia palmarum (non-pathogen) were analyzed for the induction of lipid peroxidation and lipoxygenase (LOX) activity. In incompatible interaction, the level of lipid peroxidation significantly increased 1 day after inoculation and reached the maximum 3 days after inoculation. A twofold increase in lipid peroxidation was observed 3 days after inoculation with P. palmarum. In contrast, in the compatible interaction significant increase in the level of lipid peroxidation was not observed until 3 days after inoculation. LOX activity also rapidly increased in rice leaf sheaths after inoculation with the non-pathogen. Inoculation of P. palmarum increased the LOX activity by 18 % above control levels by 3 day, while R. solani caused only 8 % increase. The present study provides evidence for the important role of lipid peroxidation in the non-host resistance of rice.
90002729|Foliar fertilization is considered as an efficient supplementary method when fertilization
90003152|It has proven to be an enduring and difficult challenge to generate useful germplasm that resists fusarium head blight (FHB) as effectively as Sumai 3. While focussed genetic approaches may follow a clear path to a well-defined goal of resistance, they run the risk of worsening traits not selected for. It was commonly believed that selecting for good performance under pressure from multiple diseases plus abiotic stress should be a harder task than focussing on the single goal of FHB resistance; and yet the complex, systemic approaches have now been shown to be capable of rapid progress. Moreover, the risks of worsening non-selected traits are lessened, because the selection matrices favour genes, or groups of genes, that are free of major defects arising from linkage or pleiotropy. However, even at the pre-breeding level, environments are needed that stress the tested germplasm abiotically and with multiple diseases, as a broad array of traits must be examined at the same time. Since as much as 98-99% of any population may need to be discarded, the widest possible genetic range of diversity should be investigated. As seen in several bread wheat examples, the critical factors that allow for rapid selection of germplasm resistant to most stresses are: a) use of an extensive range of available biodiversity; b) well-designed planning of numerous crosses; c) the astute application of combinations of biotic and abiotic stresses; and d) fast recycling of multiple-resistant lines into crossing blocks. Analyses of our first attempts (2003-07) with such systemic approaches show that as early as F
90003038|Seven domestic cultivars of winter wheat developed in Institute of Field and Vegetable Crops (
23782729|The effect of separate chromosomal arms (5AL, 5AS, 5BS, 5DL and 5DS) and of 9 donor cytoplasms of the genera Aegilops and Triticum on the size and configuration of metaphase PMC and division spindle in ditelosomic and alloplasmic cv. Chinese spring x S. cereale hybrids was studied. It was found that chromosomes 5B and 5D and Ae. Kotschyi, Ae. variabilis and Ae.biuncialis cytoplasms produce highest effect. Wheat and rye genomes preserved to a great extent their genetic differentiation and their ability to form an independent division apparatus of the hybrids in the absence of short chromosome 5B and 5D arms and in alloplasmic hybrids with donor cytoplasm from Ae.biuncialis, T.dicoccoides, Ae.triuncialis and Ae.speltoides.
23783819|Comparative analysis of alcohol dehydrogenase-1 (E.C.1.1.1.1) isoforms in wheat was carried out on various Triticum species and subspecies containing C, Cu, M, Mu, Mt, D and S genomes at di- tetra- and hexaploid levels. Common electrophoretic properties of isoenzymes found in distant species suggest similar evolutionary events affecting the protein structure.
23782800|The chromosomes controlling the high protein content In the grains (expressed as % and mg/grain) of winter wheat line F. 26-70 were identified using the method of intervarietal chromosome substitution. The results obtained gave evidence of the decisive influence of chromosomes 4B, 4D, 5A, 5B, 5D and 6D on the high percentage of protein and of chromosomes 4B, 4D, 5B and 5D on the protein content expressed in mg/grain. The high percentage of protein in the substitution lines 5A and 6D is probably due to a deficiency of carbohydrate accumulation in the grain. No decrease in yield was observed in the protein substitution lines. Correlation between earliness of heading and high protein content was limited to 2 chromosomes.
90003446|Nutrient element supply, and so nitrogen influences the microbial, faunal and plant processes and eventually the enzyme activity of soil. Phosphomonoesterases are essential enzymes of the phosphorus cycle. Studies were carried out on the effects of long-term nitrogen fertilization on the acid and alkaline phosphatase activity of a calcareous sandy soil.
23783752|Experiments with two stages of rye plant ontogenesis have been carried out with the use of various mutagens. In mutagenic treatment of mature seeds the following mutagens were used: physical - fast neutrons (fN) with doses 400, 500 and 600 rads and chemical - N-nitroso-N-methylurea (MNH) with 0.7 to 1.25 mM. Fourteen-day-old immature embryos were gamma rays irradiated (137Cs) with 500 to 8000 rads. A very rich variation of morphological characters have been observed in M3 generation after seed treatment, independent from the applied mutagen. Special attention was paid to selection of semi-dwarf mutants. The first attempts were made with mutagenesis of rye immature embryo. The immature embryos appeared to be very sensitive to irradiation and doses higher than 1500 rads were already lethal.
23780378|The effects of maternal and paternal genotypes on the hybridization of Triticum spp. x Secale spp. were studied. Although the various genotypes affected embryo recovery rates, the effects were not significant. Enough small embryos were recovered to show that more plantlets should have been recovered. Initiation of embryo germination is suggested as the major obstruction for direct diploid wheat x rye crosses to form tetraploid triticale.
90003151|Based on published results in 52 peer reviewed articles QTL for FHB resistance are summarized and compared. Suggestions for resistance breeding are given.
23789648|Trials with seven genotypes of winter wheat were set up as RCB design at four locations in continental part of Croatia in three repetitions during 2004 and 2005 year. Grain yield and indirect quality traits were analyzed. Statistically significant differences for all traits were found among cultivars (G), locations (L) and years (Y), and for all interactions (GxL, GxY, LxY, GxLxY) except for the interaction GxLxY for protein and wet gluten content and for the interaction term GxL for grain yield. In 2004 year higher grain yields were realized as compared to 2005. The same trend has been reached for all analysed quality traits (2004 was better than 2005) except for sedimentation value. The highest grain yields, test weights and wet gluten content were realized at location Osijek. Highest protein content and sedimentation value were found at location Nova Gradiska. The most yielding genotypes with lowest coefficient of variation for grain yield over locations and years were Seva, Demetra and Srpanjka, while the most favorable quality traits with the lowest coefficient of variation were found for Golubica, Zitarka and Panonka.
90003209|The maize Golden2-like or GLK genes encode proteins belonging to a class of GARP domain transcriptional activators. GLKs have been observed to be involved in chloroplast development and stress adaptation. In spite of the importance of GLKs in plant processes, the
90003353|The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of controlled release fertilizer (CRF) on the activity of three antioxidant enzymes in cucumber transplants. Three treatments - a 125 mg N/l and a 250 mg N/l basal application level, and a 125 mg N/l level complemented by four sidedressings to 250 mg N/l  were carried out either using a CRF, or a readily available fertilizer (RAF). Activity of guaiacol peroxidase, ascorbate peroxidase and glutathione reductase were measured from the roots and the youngest leaves three times during the raising period. Salt levels of the pot mixtures were higher in the RAF treatments than in their corresponding CRF treatments during the first half of the experiment. The activity of ascorbate peroxidase showed the strongest correlation with the salt level, especially at the time of the first measurement. According to the dry weight data the sometimes two-fold differences in the salt level did not have a growth reducing stress effect on cucumber transplants.
90003318|Pseudomonads, including
23782759|The yield of the amphiploid Hordeum chilense  Triticum turgidum conv. durum was tested in field conditions. Yield, grain protein content and other traits of agronomical interest have been studied in recombined and secondary tritordeums. The high protein content, characteristic of primary tritordeums is kept in improved lines. Yield was only between 20 and 40 % of that of wheat partially possibly due to the late heading date of tritordeum.
90002948|The role of agriculture and its future development is a highlighted topic of CAP, which focuses on the sustainability. The key question of sustainable development is, how the agriculture can react to the external social, economic and environmental changes. Change of external conditions in an economic system influences the productivity and it has effect to individual and/or social welfare as well. The vulnerability assessment may help the future formulation of agricultural and rural policy meeting more public concern and less transition cost. This paper focuses on vulnerability indicators of farm sector and rural economy of CEECs.
23789924|In order to elaborate site-specific, environmentally sound fertiliser recommendations aimed at achieving an economic yield level in maize, the N and P supplies of the soil, the N and P effects detectable in the yield, and the limit values for N and P supply levels were investigated in a ten-year mineral fertilisation experiment set up on chernozem meadow soil. Over the average of ten years, this chernozem meadow soil, which had a humus content of 2.83.2%, gave a grain yield of 6.10 t ha1 without N fertiliser, the relative yield was 79% and N fertilisation gave a yield surplus of 1.35 t ha. The economic yield level was achieved when the NO3-N content of the upper 060 cm soil layer was 100110 kg ha1 prior to sowing. The mineral N content of the soil is a better indicator of the soil N supply level and of the N fertiliser requirements of maize than the humus content. On this acidic, clay loam soil, which had a P supply level of 120160 mg kg1 AL-P2O5 without P fertilisation, the relative yield was 93%, averaged over 10 years, and the yield surplus 0.2 t ha1. A P effect was only detected in approximately 50% of the years, when the economic yield level was achieved at an AL-P2O5 supply level of 130170 mg kg1. On this acidic, clay loam, chernozem meadow soil, a limit value of 120170 mg kg1 AL-P2O5 represented a good supply level.
90003125|This research examines the efficiency and the volume of subsidies and examines the relationship of the produced income and the utilized subsidies of the member-states. With the aid of these two factors and their ratio we clustered the member states based on their deviations degree and direction from EU standards.
23784037|Path coefficient analysis was studied for physiological and economic traits over two years in a 9x9 diallel cross of wheat. It revealed the significance of the characters biological yield, harvest index, number of grains per spike, number of spikes per plant and 1000 grain weight for formulating selection criteria in wheat breeding programme. The present study exhibited high environmental influence on the effects of causal factors, which suggests multienvironmental studies for valid inferences and fruitful results.
23785272|The present paper deals with 1BL.1RS translocation and its influence on some technological parameters of winter wheat quality. Fourteen cultivars created in Yugoslavia which possess this translocation were compared to the same number of commercial cultivars without translocation. Cultivars with 1BL.1RS had higher values of loaf volume, crumb value, content of protein and content of maltose in the flour. Genotypes without the mentioned translocation appeared to have had an advantage over the content of wet gluten and sedimentation value (Zeleny). Path- coefficient analysis for genotypes without the mentioned translocation, demonstrated that the highest direct positive effect on loaf volume had sedimentation value (by Zeleny). In cultivars with 1BL.1RS none of the studied direct effects were significant. This group of cultivars had a positive and stronger dependence of loaf volume from the content of wet gluten, which was the opposite of the group of cultivars without 1BL.1RS, which points out the changes in relations between indirect and direct parameters of technological quality. The content of gluten and its changed nature, appear as first limiting factor in determination of technological quality of bread in cultivars with 1BL.1RS, which points out that in future breeding for high technological quality special attention must be paid to this parameter.
90002631|The potato (
90002705|By various methods we assayed the effects of chromium (VI) on axenic
90003153|Fusarium Head Blight (FHB) caused by several species of
23783933|Trigeneric hybrids with genomes of Triticum, Secale and Hordeum were produced by hybridization of hexaploid Triticale and hexaploid forms of Tritordeum. The meiosis in PMC's revealed disorders typical for distant hybrids  univalents in metaphase I, underdeveloped chromosomes in anaphase I and micronuclei in telophase II. The hybrids of F1 have a long ear with a great number of small spikelets and florets and 56 to 69 seeds per main ear.
90003398|One of the most important biotic stress factors for wheat in Hungary is powdery mildew. The effectiveness of the powdery mildew resistance conferred by 18 major Pm genes and their combinations were tested both in greenhouse experiments using various mono-isolates and in the field in the period between 2006 and 2008. The differential set recommended by the COST817 Action was used in greenhouse experiments and a variety that does not carry any known Pm gene served as the control. The results showed that none of the Pm genes tested were able to confer complete resistance against powdery mildew. In all three years a high level of virulence (>90%) was observed on test varieties carrying resistance genes Pm2, Pm3c, Pm4a, Pm5, Pm6 and Pm8. During the experimental period there was an increase in the ratio of isolates virulent to Pm17, which could be due to the introduction of varieties carrying the 1A/1R translocation. The field trials revealed that several Pm genes were able to confer above-average resistance in the wheat genotypes tested. Differentials carrying genes Pm3d, Pm3f, Pm4b or Pm5 or the gene combination Pm2+6 exhibited resistance that did not differ significantly from 0 % severity. Genotypes carrying genes Pm2, Pm3c, Pm4a, or one of the most widespread genes in Hungary, Pm8, were severely infected, so these genes did not confer effective control of powdery mildew infection in the field.
90003042|A field trial was conducted for the purpose of comparing two diagnostic tests, the petiole sap nitrate test and the chlorophyll meter, and their applications in determining the ripeness of tobacco leaves for harvest. The treatments were topping height (20 and 17 leaves for harvest), the manner of harvest (7, 4 and 3 primings) and the degree of ripeness at the time of harvest (4000 mgL
90003105|Plants react on zinc deficiency sensitively. Soils in Hungary show a considerable zinc deficiency so it must be replaced. Different compounds, complex compounds can be used for that purpose. Because of high costs of zinc fertilisation, leaf fertilisation seemed to be appropriate. In our experiments zinc and zinc-tetrammine-ion were put into zeolite by ion exchange. This zinc-ion-exchanged-synthesised-zeolite was applied on the plant foliage at the fenological state of flowering.
90002704|The biological quality of an environment is defined as the condition reflecting the quantitative representation of living organisms in a given space and time. My lecture presents how to qualify the environment of a biocoenosis synbiologically, in other words, on the supraindividual level. In this case, qualifying the environment in practice means that both the quantitative and qualitative composition of the biocenosis, and also the factors responsible for their distribution in space and time are considered and evaluated as characteristics. The ultimate goal of examining conditions is to evaluate, in other words, to determine relevancy and significance in a given biocenosis. We are facing the problem that in Hungary at present the biological survey methods are not standardized, and they are highly varied. An environmental information system however cannot function before appropriate methods of biological survey are created. The lack of such methods would result that one of the three major, organically complementary sources of information (i.e. the abiotic sphere, the biosphere, and human society) is completely missing. From a different aspect, ecological survey studies are different from the rest of environmental survey studies, inasmuch as they study living organisms and their communities, thus inevitably utilizing the results of other environmental survey studies that evaluate different components. This indicates that the ecological section of all environmental survey studies is vitally important due to its complexity, and should be considered primarily decisive.
23781364|In the present work the results of studies of protein and amino acid contents in the substitution lines of Chinese Spring/Cappelle Despraz are presented. The highest protein content was found in lines 5A and 6A and the lowest. In lines 3D and 5B. In relation to the mean for all substitution lines, no substantial differences in amino acid content in total protein was noticed. The amino acid level was most stable in lines of the genome A and least stable in lines of the genome D.
90002971|Allelopathy of several noxious weeds was identified, but real role of allelopathy is controversial in competition of plants and in non-herbicidal weed management methods. Influence of water supply on allelopathy of
23789317|Seedling (juvenile) resistance to 3 foliar diseases was studied in 540 samples of 24 Triticum L. species from VIR World Collection. Samples of T. timopheevii, T. militinae, T. zhukovskyi, T. timococcum and 4 of T. boeoticum were highly resistant to complex population of leaf rust causal agent. Presence of Puccinia recondita clones virulent to samples of T. miguschovae and T. kiharae (synthetic hexaploids with genome AbGD) indicates to partial suppression of resistance from species with AbG genome by D genome of Ae. tauschii. Two samples of T. araraticum and one of T. timopheevii were resistant to dark-brown leaf spot blotch. Three samples of T. araraticum and two of T. timopheevii were classified as resistant after inoculation with mixture of 7 Stagonospora nodorum isolates. All 239 samples of 6 species studied were susceptible to common root rot. The causes of differences between our results and that obtained in other studies are discussed.
23782869|Balance experiments on growing rats were conducted to study the digestibility of nitrogen and biological value of protein fractions isolated from wheat. The nutritive value of wheat supplemented with albumin + globulin or gliadin fractions was also studied. Apparent digestibility of nitrogen and of total amino acids was significantly higher in gliadin (GLI) fractions as compared with albumin + globulin (AG) or glutenin (GLN) fractions. The digestibility of lysine was very low in GLI and GLN fractions and intermediate in the AG fraction. The highest digestibility was found in proline and glutamic acid. Significant differences were found in biological value and net protein utilization of isolated proteins. The highest values were found in AG followed by GLN and GLI fractions. The 10% increase in AG content of wheat resulted in insignificant increase of biological value. The 20 % increase in GLI content decreased significantly the biological value of wheat protein.
23782742|A generation mean analysis of resistance to two sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench)grain molds, namely, C. lunata and F. moniliforme, was carried out. Parental, F1, F2 and backcross generations of eight crosses, representing high susceptible  low susceptible, high susceptible  high susceptible and low susceptible  low susceptible combinations were studied after evaluating grain mold susceptibility by inoculations in the field. The results indicated large dominance effects and significant epistatic effects for resistance to both C. lunata and F. moniliforme. In a majority of the crosses duplicate type of interactions governed resistance to F. moniliforme. Although additive and additive  additive effects were present, they were only next in importance to the dominance effects.
23788197|The aim of the project was to determine the grain quality, technological properties and baking values of 'Perenne' (registered perennial rye cultivar), obtained through the interspecific crossing of Secale cereale L. and S. montanum Guss., and to compare with annual rye varieties. The crude protein content of 'Perenne' grains was higher ('Perenne': 18%, annual varieties: 12%) and contained more crude fibre, crude fat and ash than the annual varieties. Regarding the quantity and composition of amino acids, 'Perenne' showed values between S. montanum (high amino acid content) and S. cereale (lower amino acid content). While its farinograph softening value was inferior to those of the annual varieties, its flour mixed with wheat flour outperformed them. In terms of other properties (falling number, farinograph water absorption capacity, baking test) of 'Perenne' flour, whether in mixtures or in pure form, was not left behind the annual varieties. Perennial rye can also be used for bread making since it has great grain composition.
23787268|The influence of salts, light and darkness on root NO3-N loss has been studied on four varieties of Moroccan wheat (Triticum aestivum L. var. Achtar, Sada, Saba and Tegyey32). In light, NO3-N losses in water were relatively similar in all varieties. Salts in light reduced nitrate loss from roots of Achtar, Sada and Tegyey32, and increased from roots of Saba, as compared to water, during 8 h. In the dark, salts reduced nitrate loss from roots of Achtar during 8 h, but increased from roots of Sada (6 h), Saba (8 h) and Tegyey32 (4 h) as compared to water. Salts in the dark increase nitrate losses relative to light in Sada, and Tegyey32 (8 h), in Saba (for 2 h) and in Achtar (after 6 h). On the other hand, the increasing effect of water developed slowly in the dark period for all varieties as compared to light. Our result suggests the existence of genetic variability in the relation between salts and nitrate loss which depends on light. In this study, the varietal differences in the root losses of NO3-N are discussed.
23787214|In agricultural systems, monocrop has become a common practice. Barley responds quite well to continued cultivation, however reduction in the yield can become significative. We show that, for barley grown in the Po Valley, yield reductions are associated to increasing infections by soil-borne viruses, BaYMV and BaMMV. Over the three years of trials, only the cultivars susceptible to such viruses showed high incidence of the viruses and relevant grain yield losses (33%), while the resistant ones had no virus infection and no yield reductions. Increased nitrogen dressing, although could reduce the incidence of viruses at the stage of initial stem elongation, did not allow a recovery of yield loss. Mosaic viruses are transmitted by fungus Polymyxa graminis and the repeated growth of susceptible barley cultivars can increase the incidence of the infection in the subsequent barley crop.
23783771|The present study was conducted to compare the extent of variability and mean performance in populations involving different number of parents. The mean of seven populations of single crosses exhibited significant differences for days to heading and maturity while means of seven double cross populations were significantly different for heading days and plant height. On individual cross basis, significant differences were observed for heading days in double crosses while multiple crosses exhibited significant differences for 1000-grain weight and grain yield. The mean performance of multiple crosses was improved for grain weight/ten spikes, tillers/meter and grain yield/meter, maximum being for tillers/meter as compared to parents and other populations. The coefficient of variation was higher in case of multiple crosses as compared with parents,single and double crosses for plant height, tillers/meter, 1000-grain weight and grain weight/ten spikes. Range increased in cross populations as compared with parents for all traits under study.
90002678|The classical method of growth analysis was used to examine the effect of N fertilisation on the growth dynamics and growth parameters (RGR, NAR, LAR, LWR, SLA, RLGR, LAD and BMD) of maize hybrids. The grain yield was found to be correlated with RGR and its components.
90003293|Lodging would be an important risk factor in mycotoxin production. A case-control study and invention trials were done to clarify effect of lodging on the accumulation of DON and NIV. The concentration of DON+NIV in lodged crop was higher than that of nonlodged one and the mycotoxins production was increased 30% even after 5-7 days lodging. These results suggest that appropriate management practices e.g. cultivar or fertilization to avoid lodging should be required for reduction of mycotoxin contamination.
90003361|In the real world systems are in many ways interrelated to other systems, applying stress on one of them will have an effect on the other. In a controlled system, adaptive response can be improved in a way that the connected systems face less stress. In this approach we take plant production as a system controlled through nitrogen fertilizer and irrigation, and nitrogen leaching as an example for stress imposed on the connected ecological system. A plant growth model is used to demonstrate adaptation ways to different direct environmental stressors as drought and deficiency of available nitrogen. The adaptive response of the plant (i.e. slower growth) imposes stress on the ecological system. The amount of stress transferred by a controlled system can be reduced through control. Such a control presumes using models to predict adaptive response, feedback control is prone to over regulation. Modeling also allows easy interfacing to other modeled systems like ecologic or even the economic system, and thus the amount of stress transferred can be balanced to avoid extreme consequences. Our conclusion is that careful analysis and a better control can improve sustainability of plant production even within changing climatic and economic conditions.
23789876|Gliadins were extracted from three wheat varieties, viz. Nongda 99260037 (good quality), Henan 9023 (media quality) and Nongda 98123 (poor quality), and -, -, -, -gliadins were purified from Nongda 99260037 using preparative SDS-PAGE. The total gliadins and -, -, -, -gliadins were used as antigens to immunise BALB/C mice, and the corresponding polyclonal antibodies were prepared, designated as Anti-A, Anti-B, Anti-C, Anti-A, Anti-A, Anti-A and Anti-A, respectively. Binding of the polyclonal antibodies with 8 varieties, that varied in quality properties, showed correlations with some wheat quality parameters. Correlation coefficients between antibodies against total gliadins or -, and -gliadin of Nongda 99260037 and quality parameters were higher than other antibodies. Of seven polyclonal antibodies tested, three (Anti-A, Anti-A and Anti-A) displayed significant positive or negative associations between antibody binding and dough development time, strength, valorimenter value and stability time, but no significant correlations were observed with water absorption. These results suggest that polyclonal antibodies could be used for rapid prediction and screening of wheat quality parameters.
23781327|The present studies were carried out on protein content in a 15 parent diallel cross pearl millet (without reciprocals) in three test environments. It was concluded that both additive and non-additive type of genetic components were important with the latter playing a greater role (Griffing analysis). The results obtained from Hayman analysis also revealed the importance of both additive(D) and dominance components (H1) of genetic variation over all the test environments. However, the magnitude of dominance component was higher as compared to additive component. Keeping in view the type of genetic variation it has been suggested that efforts should be made in their synthetic progenies to isolate high protein inbreds combining other desirable agronomic characters. Some of the good specific cross combinations could also be used as base material to resort to reciprocal recurrent selection and also to population improvement programme.
23785305|In vitro anther culture (AC) response of thirty hybrids (F1) of salt-tolerant and susceptible varieties was studied on N6, B5 and MS with varying concentrations of auxins and cytokinins. In most crosses, 2,4-D (mostly 2mg1) with a low level of kinetin was superior in inducing androgenic calli. Thirteen hybrids did not produce calli reaffirming that AC response is largely genotype dependent. Callus-producing ability was 0.83- 8.40%. Average numbers of calli were 1.60- 4.50 per responding anther. 19-36 days were required for callus initiation. Plant regeneration percentage ranged from 28.56-72.60. MS media with different concentrations of kinetin and BAP was superior in plantlet regeneration. Albinos (0-100%) were abundant among the regenerants. With such low callus-forming and plant regeneration abilities, producing 150 double haploid (DH) lines (minimum for effective field selection) seems to be difficult. This warrants large scale experimentation utilising non conventional, innovative techniques.
23781350|Limited information is available on the export of labelled assimilates from the leaves of cereals during the life span of the leaf. The present investigation was carried out to determine the effect of leaf ageing on the exporting efficiency of maize (Zea mays L.) leaf and the general pattern of distribution of fixed radiocarbon within the plant. The seventh leaf of potgrown maize was labelled with 14CO2 1, 3, 6, 9, 15, 21, 33 and 45 days after its emergence from the whorl. The pattern of distribution of labelled carbon in different plant fractions was determined 24 hours later. The 1-day old leaf exported very little (3%) of fixed carbon but with the growth and development of the leaf, its exporting efficiency increased and reached its peak (45%) when it was 21 days old. The ageing leaf showed a continuous decline in its exporting efficiency but when the leaf was senescing there was a slight increase in the percentage exported carbon. Young leaves were important sinks for the radiocarbon until they were mature. As the distance of the new emerging leaves from the source leaf increased, the amount of assimilates reaching them decreased. The young leaf was an importing organ and started exporting only when nearly half expanded. Stems and roots were important sinks for the labelled assimilates but the distribution to these fractions was not consistent.
23784289|Leaf blades were sampled from a field experiment including three different wheat cultivars at different growth stages. Measurements of maximum width (W), total length (L), and leaf area (A) were obtained for each blade, then leaf area was estimated using equations representing known geometric figures. None of the equations resulted in an accurate estimation of observed area. Therefore, the simplest equation (rectangle) was selected and affected by a correction coefficient (bm) which was calculated as bm=b/n; where b is the ratio between the measured area and the product of length and width of each blade b=A (L W)1 and n the number of laminae (n=498). When the predicted area, calculated as A=L W bm, was regressed against observed area the relationship had a slope lower than 1. An iterative technique to avoid this inaccuracy to calculate the coefficient was used. Thus, a new model represented by A=L W bi (where bi=0.835) was obtained. This model showed to be better than the other ones for estimating the observed individual leaf areas. Finally, the model was succesfully validated with data procedding from field experiments including different wheat cultivars, ontogenic stages, sowing dates and plant densities. It is suggested that when leaf lamina areas could not be measured, they could be estimated as A=L W 0.835.
23779169|A population of 158 F3 families derived from a cross of 'Sturdy' X 'Centurk' winter wheats was studied in a field experiment at Stillwater, Okla., during the 1972-73 crop season. Grain yield, tiller number, kernels/spike, yield/spike, kernel weight, plant height, and heading date were measured to determine estimates of heritability and genetic advance. Heritability estimates were based on two types of reference units: single replications (h2SRS) and multiple replications (hMRS). Genetic advance was calculated at both 5 and 10% levels of selection. Heritability estimates based on MRS units were nearly twice the magnitude of those based on SRS units for grain yield, tiller number, and kernels/spike. Smaller differences between the two methods were noted for traits having higher heritability values (heading date, plant height, and kernel weight). As the reference unit changed from MRS to SRS, the predicted genetic advance decreased less than the heritability estimates. This suggested that only a slight increase in genetic advance could be expected with multiple replication (MRS) selection as compared to single replication (SRS) selection.
23789845|This work aims to present a rapid and precise screening method of wheat germplasm and identification of durum wheat accessions in germplasm collections. Fifty-two wheat accessions maintained in the ISOPlexix germplasm bank at the Madeira University, Portugal, and 72 accessions from the Centre for Conservation of Crop Biodiversity of Tenerife (CCBAT), Spain, have been screened for their specific ploidy status using the molecular marker Dgas44. We have demonstrated that the Dgas44 sequence is effective in the screening of Madeiran and Canarian wheat accessions. This screening method permitted the detection of 10 and 11 durum accessions among Madeiran and Canarian wheats, accounting for 19.2 and 15.3% of screened collections, respectively. The obtained results have shown a 100% of cases correspondence with the previously performed morphological identification of the Madeiran wheats. It also permitted rectification and clarification of previous classification of some accessions based only on the morphological traits. The PCR based assay was directly applicable to the screening of seeds and was suitable for detecting seed mixtures in accessions. This rapid method has been proven to be a useful tool in gene bank accessions management including verification of their ploidy status and detection of seed lots adulteration.
23786179|Before this investigation, the existence of Triticum boeoticum ssp thaoudar (syn. Triticum thaoudar) in Iran was doubtful. The authors observed, then studied the populations of this wild wheat (using, principally, the Braun-Blanquet method) in limited and scattered habitats located in west and northwest of Iran. In addition, they found that in each habitat, there is an associated composition of species of Triticum, Aegilops and other plants; some of these associated compositions of species can be considered as the "richest wheat gene pool" in Iran.
23787149|Capillary electrophoresis (CE) of gliadins from Triticum species in acidic or isoelectric buffers is currently used. The performance of five buffers are compared here. The highest resolving power and the shortest time of analysis resulted associated to the isoelectric buffers. The slight different performance of the iminodiacetic acid (IDA) and aspartic acid (Asp) buffer systems should be taken into consideration before to start CE analyses. IDA buffer should be preferred when screening large germplasm collections or when a detailed characterisation of -gliadins is required. Asp buffer proved to be most satisfactory for cultivar discrimination or varietal identification.
23783770|The effect of gibberellic acid and kinetin on seed set was studied after applying these hormones on flowers before and after pollination in wheat-barley crosses. The maximum seed set obtained in UP 2121 x Jagrati was 2.5 per cent when gibberellic acid was applied 5 min after pollination followed by another application after 24 hr. In the reciprocal cross it was maximum (11.86 per cent) with the same treatment. Multiple pollinations and application of a mixture of hormones resulted in a higher percentage of seed set than control in both the crosses.
23786168|Genetic stability of doubled haploid (DH) lines of androgenetic origin is the prerequisite of their breeding value. In our investigations GK Gb: a traditional cultivar, GK Dlibb: a cultivar of doubled haploid origin, various DH lines of GK Gb (first cycle DH lines) and DH lines of GK Dlibb (second cycle DH lines) were compared with PCR-based molecular techniques. High molecular weight DNA was isolated from randomly selected individuals of these groups and analysed by RAPD, SSR and AFLP methods. The objective of these analyses was to determine the existence or magnitude of difference between cultivars produced by classical and haploid methods (populations are represented by the individuals of each group), and to find which marker system would be most suitable to investigate the homogeneity of DH populations. From the 30 RAPD primers tested, only 6 differentiated the two cultivars (GK Gb and Dlibb). Individual polymorphism could not be observed. There were 7 fragments generated on 12 loci with 9 SSR primers, which were suitable to differentiate the two cultivars. Individual polymorphisms could not be detected between the cultivars, or within the group of first and second cycle DH lines. In the AFLP analyses, 7 of 8 primer combinations were suitable to show differences, resulting in an average of 100-150 fragments. Eighty-one polymorphic fragments were obtained with these 7 primer combinations. Twenty-three of the 81 polymorphic (bands) markers could detect individual differences. Nine of them were suitable to separate cultivar GK Gb and its DH group. Based on AFLP fragments, the fewest individual polymorphisms were obtained within the DH group of GK Dlibb (second cycle DH lines). This result is probably due to repeated application of haploidization techniques. Presumably, the repeated DH production increased the level of homogeneity, as suggested by the significant decrease of the number of polymorphic bands in the second cycle DH lines. Each group consists of individuals, which can be genetically considered as progeny mixture of homozygous recombinants used for the establishment of the given population. Differences between the DH lines of one cultivar may be due to the consequences of the gametoclonal variation, which is fixed at individual level in the homozygous (DH) genome.
23784238|Bread with attractive volume and soft crumb can be made of corn-starch by applying binding agents, which can be used in the diet of people who need food with low protein and phenylalanine content and free from gluten (patients suffering from coeliac disease, phenylketonurea, and renal failure). Besides structure formation it is very important to come closer to the visual and production technological properties characterising the common bread, such as flavour, colour, smell, and swelling ability. The purpose of our work has been to determine the minimum quantity of the following additives and technological agents, which are used in the conventional baking technology as well: powder sugar, delta-glucono-lacton, NaHCO3 (baking soda), and margarine, in order to attain the best possible technological and visual characteristics. Bread volume, crumb penetration, and the change of the visual characteristics have been estimated so as to demonstrate the effect of each additive. Our results show that powder sugar leads to slight increase in volume and improvement of crumb. It influences considerably the crust and the flavour. Delta-glucono-lacton and NaHCO3 have no significant effect on volume and crumb penetration. But if applied at the appropriate ratio, the bread will be characterised by fine crumb and crust structure, and delicious smell and flavour. The application of margarine is not recommended in systems with low protein and free from gluten because of its unfavourable effect on the intestines.
23787081|In low-input conditions of winter wheat growing it is an advantage to use genetically based resistance for protection against common bunt and dwarf bunt not only for economical reasons, but also with respect to the environment. Within 3 years of field testing of samples of Tilletia laevis and T.tritici on the standard set of 14 winter wheat differential cultivars and lines (Bt0-Bt13) virulence of 20 European samples, one sample from the USA and one from Syria was established. In the studied set of bunt samples virulence to the wheat resistance genes Bt1, Bt2 and Bt7 and avirulence to genes Bt3, Bt5, Bt8, Bt9, Bt11, Bt12 and Bt13 most frequently occurred. The studied set represented mostly physiologic races designated as L5 or T5 (virulent to Bt1, Bt2, Bt7), followed by physiologic races L3 or T3 (virulent to Bt1 and Bt7). Among 19 cultivars tested in field experiments as potential sources of resistance, 17 cultivars were without infection, one cultivar had only 1.5% infected spikes, one cultivar had 13.5% infected spikes and the susceptible check 54.3%.
23781430|In Hungary durum wheat application and breeding research work was begun in the early 70's at the Cereal Research Institute, Szeged. The southern part of the country is the norther border of durum wheat production. As the climate conditions of Hungary differ from those of the traditional durum wheat producing regions /Ankara, Foggia/ we examined how the lower temperature, the shorter sunshine duration and the greater precipitation in May, June and July influence the quality /flouriness/ and quantity of the yield We found that during the period from heading to ripening a precipitation quantity above the mean considerable decreases the yield. Among the fertilizers - under the same conditions - first of all N influences positively the quality and quantity of the yield. On dispersing P and K fertilizers separately or together, a contrary effect could be observed: they could attain a favourable result only if they were combined with a higher dose of N /N2P2, N2P1, N2P2K1 N2P1K1/.
90003127|Rock-Eval (RE) pyrolysis was designed for petroleum exploration to determine the type and quality of organic matter in rock samples. It is a quick and effective tool for evaluating the amount and properties of the organic matter. Nevertheless, this technique can be used for bulk characterization of the immature organic matter in soil samples and recent sediments. The aim of our work was to present new fields of application of the RE pyrolysis for assessing the proportion of the organic components of different thermal stabilities, and also to apply this method for characterization of organic matter dynamics in soil profiles.
23783920|Fatty acid (FA) and phospholipid (PL) composition, as well as phosphorus turnover in phosphatidyl choline (PC) and phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE) from coleoptiles collected from Triticum durum, cv. Balcarceo-INTA seedlings under osmotic stress, have been studied. Wheat seedlings were water-stressed in darkness with 20% polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000 added to the root medium. At zero time and after a 36 h-treatment period, total lipid extracts (TLE) were obtained from coleoptiles. Gas liquid and thin layer chromatographic analyses of TLE revealed the presence of 6 FA and 11 PL classes. Double bond index (DBI) rose during coleoptile growth, being the rise less pronounced in water-stressed seedlings. The relative PL distribution did not change during treatment. However, coleoptiles from 32P-labelled seedlings grown in water at the dark increased their specific radioactivities in PC, while under osmotic stress a significant (P < 0.025) fall was evident. Here we show that lipid unsaturation and PC turnover in coleoptiles collected from wheat seedlings grown in darkness, are affected by osmotic stress.
23782923|The grain yields of the parents and F2 through F5 generations of 21 barley crosses from a seven-parent diallel, and samples of 20 doubled-haploid (DH) lines from the same crosses were evaluated in hill-plots. Mid-parental yield values, average parental general combining ability effects, and early-generation bulk performance were not good predictors of the performance of the DH lines that were derived from these crosses. The failure of these criteria to identify superior crosses may be due to epistasis, which has previously been detected in this material.
90002952|The objective of this paper was to examine influence of sowing rate, environmental conditions and genotype on yield and traits important for yield formation (number of ears m
23782830|The phytic acid content of oat varieties and breeding lines were studied in four variety trials. Nitrogen fertilization varied from 80 kg/ha in trial I to 153 kg/ha in trial III. Phosphorus fertilization was 35 kg/ha or 42 kg/ha. The phytic acid content very much depended on phosphorus fertilization. Nitrogen fertilization increased both the phytic acid and protein content of oats. Phosphorus (x1) and nitrogen (x2) fertilization explained 66.7 % of the variation in the phytic acid content (y) by a multiple linear regression analysis (y = 0.36 + 0.024x1 + 0.0017x2).
23789833|SDS-PAGE was used to determine the variation in high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS) alleles present in 170 landraces of common wheat from Sindh, Balochistan and NWFP in Pakistan. Three alleles for Glu-A1, six alleles for Glu-B1 and four alleles for Glu-D1 were detected. These included three new alleles, namely Glu-Ble, Glu-B1h and Glu-D1n, which had not previously been found in landraces of Pakistani wheat. Furthermore, Glu-D1m and Glu-Dln, which are considered to be endemic alleles in Pakistan and Afghanistan, were both detected from Balochistan. Twenty genotypes were identified based on combinations of alleles at the three Glu-1 loci. The present study showed that Pakistani landraces of common wheat have maintained a broad diversity of HMW-GS alleles, and that they may serve as genetic resources to improve wheat varieties adapted to Pakistani climatic and edaphic conditions.
23786042|An octoploid triticale developed between the common wheat line 'Martonvsri 9 kr1' and the rye cultivar 'Lovszpatonai' was crossed with the 1B/1R wheat variety 'Matador'. The frequency of chromosome associations involving the 1B/1R translocation was examined at metaphase I of meiosis in BC1 plants using genomic in situ hybridization (GISH). Most of the chromosome bonds were rod bivalents (67%) and trivalents (26.6%); one quadrivalent was also observed (1.2%). The 1RS arm of the translocation chromosome paired with that of 'Lovszpatonai' rye in only 32% of the pollen mother cells, whereas the translocated 1BL arm exhibited much higher pairing (90%) with its wheat homo(oe)logues.
23787148|A survey to detect virus diseases infecting rice grown in Edirne, Turkey was carried out in 2002-2003 interval. In order to reveal the presence of Rice ragged stunt virus (RRSV) and rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) in Turkey a survey study was carried out during July-August-September 2002 and June, July and August in 2003 covering 5 cereal-growing counties (Edirne-center, Havsa, Uzunkpr, Kean, Ipsala) of Edirne, Turkey. 742 samples with dwarfing, yellowing or stunting were collected from 61 rice fields. The samples were tested for the presence of 2 viruses by ELISA using polyclonal antisera. Serological tests showed that 2 tested viruses were given positive reaction in many selected samples in Edirne, Turkey. RYMV was detected in 82 of tested samples and RRSV in 79 of 742 tested samples in different localities in Edirne, Turkey. The positive results suggested the presence of the two viruses.
90002315|Both resistance genes
23787562|The effect of colchicine enriched culture media on embryo regeneration and the production of doubled haploid wheat plants in vitro were examined using two regeneration media enriched with 300 and 900 mg/colchicine respectively and the results were compared with results from plants treated with colchicine after regeneration. Four German winter wheat varieties were pollinated with a pollen mixture collected from two sweet corn hybrids. The number of pollinated florets, caryopses, haploid embryos and regenerated plantlets were scored. In total 14,000 pollinated wheat florets produced 10,879 caryopses from which 2,704 embryos were excised; 1,288 embryos regenerated to plants and 958 plants survived till maturity. The regeneration of embryos to plants was influenced by the wheat varieties, the colchicine treatment and colchicine concentration. The percentage of doubled haploid plants varied depending on chromosome doubling technique, colchicine concentration and wheat variety. Plants were cultured till ripening and those with seed set were scored as doubled haploid plants. The highest percentage of doubled haploids per 100 cultivated embryos across the four varieties were scored for plants regenerated on colchicine free medium and treated thereafter in vivo with colchicine (30.6 %), followed by plants regenerated on medium enriched with 300 mg/l colchicine (19.9 %) and 900 mg/l colchicine (18.4 %).
23786039|We have studied several factors influencing the transfer of the T-DNA from Agrobacterium to wheat cells. Agrobacterium tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes strains were screened using immature zygotic embryos from the two wheat varieties Bobwhite and Lona (Triticum aestivum L.). Transient T-DNA transfer to plant cells was shown using a glucuronidase (gus)-intron marker gene. A. rhizogenes LBA9402 transferred the T-DNA efficiently to wheat cells, where it was highly expressed. The efficiency of T-DNA transfer was influenced by the cocultivation time, the Agrobacterium concentration and the preculture time of the isolated immature embryos before inoculation.
23786269|The amphiploids (2n=42) Ae. variabilis x S. cereale and Ae. kotschyi x S. cereale were synthesized by chromosome doubling of the F1 hybrids (2n=21) after colchicine treatment and/or through regeneration from callus culture. The amphiploids resembled the F1 plants morphologically, however, they were larger in all respects and self-fertile. In the first generation after chromosome doubling the seeds of Ae. variabilis x S. cereale amphiploids were better developed than the seeds of Ae. kotschyi x S. cereale amphiploid, however, almost all seeds of both types of amphiploids were viable. In the Ae. variabilis x S. cereale colchicine-induced amphiploids seed set increased in successive generations. From crosses between amphiploids and rye two S. cereale x (Ae. variabilis x S. cereale amphiploid) hybrids (2n=28) have been successfully produced via embryo culture. Phenotypically the plants were intermediate to the parents, vigorous in vegetative growth and sterile. The pollination of barley cv. Emir with Ae. variabilis x S. cereale amphiploid yielded one vigorous, aneuploid and sterile hybrid.
23778599|A field experiment was conducted in 1974 to study the physiological maturity of triticale seeds and compare its behaviour with durum wheat and rye. A rapid increase in seed dry weight and starch content was observed from 14 to 35 days after anthesis in seeds of triticale and from 14 to 42 days in seeds of durum wheat and rye. The dry weight and starch content then decreased in wheat and triticale IMJ3. The dehydration of seed was essential for maximum germination to occur. Seed germination was not observed upto 14 days of anthesis and it was maximum at 28 days in rye and triticale IMJ3 and Cinnamon, at 35 days in wheat and at 42 days in S71-142. Seed dormancy was observed in rye and triticale S71-142 and Cinnamon, but not in IMJ3 and wheat. The dormancy of seeds could be broken by 1000 ppm of gibberellic acid. Triticale IMJ3 differed in many ways than the other two triticale lines included in this study. Seeds of triticale S71-142 and Cinnamon and wheat and rye attained physiological maturity by 42 days, but triticale IMJ3 by 35 days after anthesis. The pattern of seed maturation of triticale was more like rye seeds than wheat.
23780331|Aegilops ventricosa (2n = 28, genomes Dv Mv) shows the highest level of resistance to eyespot known in the Triticineae. In order to identify the genetical determinism of characteristics associated with the Mv genome, addition lines wheat  Aegilops have been extracted. One of them, line v 246, has been studied especially. The transmission rate of the additional chromosome, calculated from F2 and BC1 generations, is quite different in the male gametes (0,16) and in the female gametes (0,40). A linear discriminant function has been calculated from chlorophyll a and b content and leaf surface of F2 plants with 42, 43 or 44 chromosomes. These three characteristics as well as glume hardness, behaviour towards powdery mildew and leaf rust allow the distinction between plants with 0, 1, or 2 added chromosomes. The line v 246 possesses many interesting agronomical characters (resistances to powdery mildew, leaf rust, stripe rust and cyst nematode, high level of seed proteins). So, methods have been elaborated to introduce this material in wheat breeding programs.
23787142|Rice genotypes were evaluated for salt tolerance in a greenhouse based upon stable carbon isotope analysis under salt stress (EC = 8 dSm1) and non-stressed (1 dSm1) conditions. Ten seedlings from each replicate and genotype were randomly sampled at 25 or 33 days after sowing (DAS). Values for carbon isotope discrimination () were obtained from dried and homogenized seedling tissue of twelve genotypes. Rice genotypes were ranked from high to low salt tolerance based on whole plant average maximum  of these two salt levels at these two early growth stages. Differences in fractionation among genotypes were observed at 25 and 33 DAS. Fractionation effects of salinity stress on  were significantly different among genotypes at 33 DAS, but not at 25 DAS. The salt tolerant cultivar maintained significantly higher average flag leaf tissue  than did the sensitive cultivar. Flag leaves of salt stressed rice maintained higher  than predicted for these two genotypes based a theoretical  value. The lack of greater reductions in leaf tissue  of salt stressed rice genotypes may the result of an increased contribution of respired carbon to the total carbon budget of rice leaves.
23782822|A multiple, reciprocal translocation (MRT) involving 5 nonhomologous chromosomes was isolated from somatic cell culture of indica rice cv. IR54. The MRT plant turned out to be sterile under selfing conditions, pollen grains were almost all empty, anthers did not split during flowering and practically no seeds were set even when outcrossed. The chromosome distribution during the haplophase proved to be very irregular. The number of bivalents at diakinesis varied from 6 to 12 with only 5.7% of the cells showing 12II. 89% of examined PMCs proved to be aneuploid. Different configurations including tetra-, hexa-, octo- and/or decavalents could be recorded. Two progeny plants were obtained after selfing and three by outcrossing, one carrying a simple reciprocal translocation and the other four the MRT. Exploration of translocations induced by somaclonal variation would offer the possibility of breeding for seedless fruit crops.
23789291|Bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is an economically and nutritionally important cereal crop in the Mediterranean region. Characterization of wheat germplasm by means of DNA fingerprinting techniques provides a tool to assess genetic diversity and to identify varieties. In this study, six Tunisian bread wheat cultivars were characterized by AFLP and SSR markers. Five AFLP primer pairs showed clear different patterns and seems to be the most suitable for analysis of the bread wheat varieties. Three SSR primers were polymorphic with more than two alleles. The pairwise genetic similarities (GS) based on these molecular markers were calculated and used to construct a dendrogram that allowed the discrimination of the six cultivars. The GS among the six varieties ranged from 0.79 to 0.36. The six varieties used in this work clustered into four groups using either AFLP or SSR markers. A high GS was found between Tebecca and Vaga Varieties which have a similar pedigree.
23782935|Brome mosaic virus /BMV/ is a RNA- containing virus with isometric particles about 26 nm in diameter infecting many species of Gramineae and dicotyledonous plants. It is successfully transmitted by sap inoculation, aphids, wheat stem rust, seeds and Xiphinema species. This virus is not considered in Hungary to be among the most important cereal viruses, though the sorts of cereal are highly susceptible to infection. In our investigation, different varieties of barley, oat, rye, and wheat were tested for their susceptibility to BMV infection under greenhouse conditions. The virus transmissibility and the reduction in plant height and weight were recorded. The reduction in plant height was more expressed in case of all varieties. Therefore, the degree of the susceptibility to BMV infection was determined on basis of reduction in plant weight.
23782825|-Amylase enzyme potential and gibberellic acid (GA) sensitivity were compard in Norin 10/Brevor 14//7*Burt soft white wheat (Triticum aestivum L) lines that were nearly isogenic for eht, Rht1, Rht2, Rht1 + Rht2, and Rht3 genes. Grain was produced on plants grown in soil and nutrient solution media under controlled environments, germinated in water and GA, and analyzed for -amylase enzyme activity. Presence of Rth1 and, particularly, Rht2 genes decreased enzyme potential and GA sensitivity, but effects were not additive and were much smaller than effects of Rht3. Norin 10/Brevor 14, however, appeared to have other genes for high amylase activity and low GA sensitivity.
23782789|The investigation was carried out to obtain information about factors influencing plant regeneration during subculture of rice callus /Oryza sativa L./. Five subcultures were carried out on modified MS medium supplemented with 1,0 mg/1 2,4-D and 0,4 mg/1 kinetin. The percentage of plant regeneration in seed callus generally showed gradual decrease from 30 % to 0,0 %. The expression of totipotency during the subcultures depends on the genotypes rather than explants /seed, plumule meristem, immature inflorescence, anther/. Seed- and plumule meristem-derived calli of breeding line 42441 showed lower proliferation rate and longer duration of plant regeneration than those of other genotypes. Plumule meristems provided high totipotent callus source. Sixty percent of inflorescence callus of haploids regenerated green plantlets and 90 % of the regenerants were at haploid level in primary callus. No haploids were observed in the second subculture. Prolonged regeneration was achieved by continous subculturing on medium containing 0,5 and 1,0 % NaCl. Callus could be cultured on the medium containing NaCl with no loss of regeneration potential during subcultures and led to the increase of total production of plants. Number of plantlets per culture vial were not reduced up to five passages.
23780380|In some cases the germination of Triticum timopheevi cytoplasmic male sterile wheats is poorer than that of the fertile analogue. Experiments show that the poorer germinating ability of male sterile wheats is not caused by side-effects of the T. timopheevi cytoplasm, but can be explained by the flowering biology. When male sterile wheats are wind pollinated it may happen that only a few grains of pollen reach the stigma and that pollination does not take place until several days after the beginning of flowering. Studies show that germination is influenced by the age of the pistil and probably also by the amount of pollen reaching the stigma. Grains formed in male sterile ears pollinated with a large quantity of pollen during the first few days of flowering germinate just as well as the original variety.
23778563|The constribution of tillers and number of tiller to the grain yield of millet (Pennisetum Typhoides S & H) was examined. One, three and five tillers per stand were maintained and these were compared to a control. We found that reduced tiller number substantially increased grain yield although reducing to just one tiller per stand had a negative effect. Maintaining three and five tillers per stand increased yield by about 20 percent. Reduced tiller numbers had no advantage on the biological yield of the plant. The grain yielding advantage of few tillers are probably due to the fact that not all tillers formed in the control stands produced heads and those that did not produce heads were parasitic on the main shoot for nutrient and water. Secondly there is great intraplant competition for nutrients as more heads were formed per stand and this intraplant competition is detrimental to high grain yield.
23783921|The results indicate that the plant cultivation factors are related to each other. The irrigation - fertilization and plant density - fertilization interactions are positive, and accordingly all three factors have to be adjusted simultaneously when production levels are changed. When disaggregating the variance components, the major averages showed a mid-tech level of production. When considering a shift to low-input production it should be considered that a decrease in the use of one production factor reduces the effects of the others; relatively high amounts invested in the other factors will not be effective. No matter what production level is targeted the most favorable interactions of water, nutrient supply and plant density have to be simultaneously assured.
23783818|Exposure of corn seedlings to different concentrations of the toxic heavy metal mercury(II) led to significantly altered activities of the enzyme glutathione transferase (GT, EC 2.5.1.18) important in glutathione utilization in this plant. Markedly elevated activities were found in the shoots. In the roots, however, the activities slightly decreased, induction was observed only after 3 days of exposure to 30 M mercury concentration. The induction of GT activity was generally preceded by a decline. These responses are specific, as indicated by their time course and dose-dependence.
23783812|Nineteen spring wheat-like triticale revertants selected for high grain protein /15.1 - 20.2 %/ and lysine /2.5 - 3.2 %/ out of 976 lines were analysed cytologically to determine their rye-chromosome constitution. They were derived from the crosses of hexaploid wheat T.aestivum L. to hexaploid triticale / XTriticosecale Wittmack /. The C-banding analysis indicated that 7 revertants contained no rye chromosomes, other 7 revertants possessed 1 rye chromosome and 5 revertants retained 4 or 5 rye chromosomes. The chromosomes 1R, 3R, 4R, 5R, 6R and 7R were identified. The deletions of telomeric C-heterochromatin were localized in 1RL, 4RS, 5RS and 6RS. Neither level of grain protein nor lysine was highly correlated with the number of rye chromosomes retained. The accumulated cytological evidence indicated that several revertants have potential utility in wheat breeding programs designed to increase levels of both protein and lysine.
90003162|Results of work to transfer FHB resistance from Sumai 3 to modern Romanian winter semi dwarf wheat and chances to obtain transgressive segregation for resistance are presented. Four F2 populations of Sumai 3 top-crossed to advanced winter lines, with various levels of FHB resistance were included in the study.
23783811|The grain, flour and dough quality of the octoploid tritordeum, amphiploid derived from the cross Hordeum chilense Roem. et Schulz. x Triticum aestivum L. em. Thell., were studied in comparison with those of durum and bread wheats, and hexaploid tritordeum (H. chilense x T. turgidum conv. durum Desf. em. M.K.). Smallscale tests, commonly used for evaluating quality in cereals, together with the alveograph, were performed. Both hexa- and octoploid tritordeum exhibited quality characteristics similar to those of bread wheat and very different from that durum wheat. Nevertheless, some genetic differences were found between hexa- and octoploid tritordeum and between the different genetic lines used of each one. This genetic variability opens the possibility that both hexa- and octoploid tritordeum could be used as new genetic sources in these kind of characters.
23789325|Five maize (Zea mays L.) hybrids were grown for four growing seasons on gleysol characterized by moderate supply with potassium (K). Three rates of KCl were applied in four replicates at the beginning of April 2001 as follows (kg K2O/ha): 150 (control), 650 and 1400. The highest rate of KCl resulted in significant increases of yield of 14%, 24% and 12%, for 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively; while in the fourth year similar yields to the control were found. The OsSK552 and Bc5982 hybrids (4-year mean 8.70 t/ha) were more susceptible to soil stress in comparison with OsSK444 and OsSK458 (mean 9.07 t/ha). At the same time, Florencia hybrid yielded 9.37 t/ha. Four hybrids responded similarly to applied fertilization (yield increases from 13 to 16% in comparison to the control), while Florencia had low response to KCl (yield increase for 5% only). Under these conditions we recommend combined solution using 1000 kg K2O/ha every third year and a choice of tolerant hybrids.
90003469|The influence of precipitation deficit is shown in the paper. Dry conditions are described by Standard Precipitation Index (SPI). For this purpose, different time scales are used. The correlation between precipitation deficit and water table depth and soil moisture is investigated, the SPI time series are discussed. It can be used for statistical estimation of agricultural drought damages.
23782961|Maize dwarf mosaic virus /MDMV/ evaluations were carried out under serious natural infection of commercial corn hybrids, parental lines, and inbreds from 1981 to 1984. Hybrids were grown in four, and inbreds in two replications, respectively. A 2-meter wide stripe of Sorghum halapense /L./ Pers. was left among the replications and around the experimental plots in order to attain an equal level of MDMV infection. Modern and virus resistant commercial hybrids have been found in every maturity group /FAO 200-500/. These evaluations gave a good basis for MDMV resistance breeding and to increase corn and seed production in Hungary.
90003101|The purpose of this study was to develop a simple analytical method to determine free amino acids in honey samples by gas chromatography  mass spectrometry. After dilution of honey samples (1:10, with pH=9 boric acid buffer, 2 ml) chloroform (2 ml), methanol:pyridine solution (4:1, 1 ml), trifluoro acetic acid (500 l) and ethylchloroformate (100 l) were added. 2 l from the organic phase was injected to the GC/MS. Applying this method 12 amino acid (histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, valine, alanine, glutamic, acid, glycine, proline, tyrosine) concentration can be determined from honey samples. This method was applied for determination of amino aids in 14 honey samples from different origins.
23781555|The possibilities of using the South-American weed Hordeum chilense in cereal breeding are discussed. The amphiploid H. chilense x T. turgidum (we have named it tritordeum) seems to be very promising; it is quite fertile, the aneuploidy in its descendence being very low its protein content ranging from 19 to 24%. We have also obtained the amphiploid with T. aestivum and hybrids with H. vulgare, H. leporinum and S. cereale, as well as crosses triticale x tritordeum.
23779172|Callus tissues were derived from 10 pure genetic lines of common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). All the lines significantly differ from each other with respect to growth, on the media with three combinations of growth substances. The hereditary control of callus growth and genotype - hormone interactions have been found. Chromosome constitutions of callus cells in two lines were analysed. The chromosomal location of the factor(s) promoting callus proliferation is discussed.
23784257|Seedlings of twenty-six Triticum species from the Caspian Sea area were screened in the greenhouse for resistance to Russian wheat aphid. One test entry, Triticum vavilovii, scored a damage rating of 2 on a 1-6 scale in the initial screening test. In a second replicated test, this line was significantly less damaged than other varieties with a rating of 2.3 compared to a rating of 5.0 for susceptible control entries. Fewer nymphs were produced on T. vavilovii than on the susceptible cv. Betta in an antibiosis test. The efficacy of the screening technique and the use of clip cages in antibiosis tests are discussed.
90002636|The field experiment with three ameliorative rates of P (kg P
23790385|The effects of environment and the high molecular weight glutenins on some quality properties (sedimentation volume, % protein content, and starch pasting viscosity) of bread wheat mutant waxy lines were evaluated. Thirty-eight 100% amylose-free F 2 derived F 6 and F 7 lines were used. The results indicated that the environment did not influence sedimentation volume, mixograph parameters and starch viscosity parameters of waxy flour. Variation in the % protein content was determined mainly by the environment. The sedimentation volume and the mixograph peak development time were influenced by the variation at over expression of Bx7 and the mixograph peak development time was influenced by the Glu-D1 locus. One starch viscosity parameter, time to peak viscosity, was influenced by variation at the Glu-A1 locus. This parameter is significantly lower in the waxy lines than the parent line, which shows the influence of the waxy loci. No significant correlation was observed for sedimentation volume, mixograph parameters, protein content and viscosity parameters of waxy lines.
90003379|It is known from literature (Olson et al., 1965, Tisdale and Nelson, 1966) that some species and hybrids of maize are sensitive to the deficiency of certain microelements (especially Zinc and Copper) appearing in the early phenological phase (3-leaves, 5-7-leaves stage) as chlorosis, which is enhanced by the fact that in the case of these phases temperature (heat stress) is lower than average. As a result of these effects these individuals grow slower and have difficulties in catching the ones free from microelement deficiency. Concerning microelements this effect appears as lower Zinc and Copper content caused by the over supply of available Phosphorus (P-Zn stress). Under adverse conditions this PhosphorusZinc antagonism causes not only loss in yield but changes in amino-acid composition and lower ratio of tryptophan as compared with normal individuals. It is very difficult to prevent the maize crop in the phenological phase 3-5 leaves from the cold stress and the deficiency of Zinc supply. In addition we can not influence the weather of this period, but we can prevent the inhibition of the Zinc uptake (Phosphorus stress). Reducing and ceasing this disadvantageous effect in early phenophases of maize is difficult since leaf area is small thus spraying fertilisation is not efficient enough, even if only rows are treated, besides placing of Zinc manure into the soil also can be complicated. In model and small-plot experiments tests and investigations were carried out with Zinc compounds placing into the soil and fertilisers of different complex stability and thus of different ligand systems (mono- and poliligands). In these observations we analysed plants in different phenophases including harvesting stage.
90002998|The genetic and environmental effects on total grain protein, malt extract and hordein fractions have been studied in four spring barley cultivars grown in field trials at Croatia. Barley grain hordeins were analyzed by RP-HPLC. A significant difference was observed among the cultivars in B, C and D hordein relative proportions, but there was no statistically significant difference between locations and years. Regarding protein content, malt extract and total hordein content, there were significant differences among years, but not among locations. There were also differences in malt extract content and total hordein content between cultivars. Grain protein content was highly significantly correlated with total hordein content, but there wasnt noticed grain protein influence on particular hordein fractions proportions.
90002696|The elaboration of environmentally-friendly energy raw material technologies is opening up new possibilities in Hungary through the utilization of composts produced from biologically degradable waste and mixed artificial fertilizer. With the help of this, two pollution sources, green waste and sewage sludge can be neutralized and utilized in an environmentally friendly way. Our experiments were set up with winter wheat in small experimental plots in Gdll. The impact of different forms of nutrients on the quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the yield were examined as well as the impact of organic material based yield enhancing substances on the physical condition of the soil. In the present paper our results for the gluten and protein content of the wheat are presented as a function of the different forms of nutrients. As a result of our research it can be concluded that applying organic materials does not have a negative impact on the internal constituents of the plant.
23782766|The effects of nitrogen (N), fungicide and planting date on yield and yield components in soft white winter wheat were studied to determine the basis for differences in adaptation to the modified humid continental climate of Connecticut. Differences in yield could be attributed to effects of environmental factors other than N or diseases on source or translocation processes in `Daws', a cultivar adapted to a semi-arid climate, and the ability to produce spikes and spikelets by cultivars `Houser' and `Purcell', respectively, which were adapted to the humid climate. Environmental limitations on source strength, however, were less pronounced in the latter.
23787147|The investigations were induced by the controversial question of the generation number of European corn borer (Ostrinia nubilalis HBNER) in Hungary. Relying on the data of nation-wide light trap network surveys were made in three places in south area of Hungary (Fadd, Kecel, Kiskunflegyhza) in previous years maize fields left unharvested, by cutting 4x100 infested stalks to settle the question of a second flight peak. Beside the mentioned places 4x80 stalks were cut in current year maize fields in order to determine the larval stages. The examinations were carried out between 6 and 8 August in accordance with the second flight peak. In the previous year's stalks dead larvae and chrysales were found without exception, while the examination results of current year's stalks confirmed the development of a second (first summer) generation in this area. It is thus regarded as a fact supported by the data of the national light trap system that in South-East Hungary a true second generation has for years been developing.
90003003|Oil rape is a valuable fodder because in early spring and late autumn it produces green forage used for the nutrition of domestic animals. It has been replacing sunflower and soy in colder and wetter regions. It is additionally advantageous because it leaves behind more nitrogen in soil, which is beneficial to other plants in plant rotation.
23787221|Protein quality and functional properties of 219 hexaploid wheat landraces from nine different provinces in Iran were evaluated using SDS-sedimentation test and the mixograph. Significant differences in means for protein quality characteristics were observed among the provinces of origin, suggesting that selection of more accessions from provinces with higher means would be a worthwhile strategy for selecting valuable genetic resources. The landraces were found to represent a valuable genetic resource that could be used to develop new bread wheat cultivars with improved end-use quality traits.
90003476|The energy is not only the necessary condition of the growth and development of plants, but at the same time also the engine of evolution. Stress in the agro-ecological system (the maximum energy input) can be calculated. The agro-ecology, like the natural intact ecological systems, is a complex adaptive system. It is not true in general sense, as complexity does not mean such diversity that characterizes natural ecological systems. On the other hand the adaptive feature also does not realize, because the breeding emphasizing some characteristics of the given species, decreases the adaptation. These changes cause thermodynamic consequences. In terms of thermodynamics the change of the entropy of the agro-ecological systems evokes: 1. irreversible changes in the plants and the soil; 2. entropy exchange between the system and its surroundings. The study analyses the opportunities and characteristics of the ecological systems thermodynamic modelling.
23784194|Field selection for drought tolerance is difficult due to climatic variation, especially precipitation. This research describes the effect of drought stress induced by chemical desiccation of wheats of various height classes. Three concentrations of sodium chlorate (NaC103), 1, 2, and 3%, were applied at two growth stages (heading and 15 days post-anthesis) on three height near- isogenic lines (short, medium, tall) of two winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars ('Yogo' and 'Cheyenne'). The experiment was conducted in 1986 at one location, and in 1987 at two locations. Field plots were grown in a split-split plot design, with cultivars, isolines, and concentration-growth stage combinations assigned to main-plots, split-plots, and split-split-plots, respectively. The 3% concentration significantly (P<0.01) reduced biological yield, grain yield, harvest index, number of kernels per spike, kernel weight, when applied either at heading or 15 days post-anthesis and spike:peduncle weight ratio for post-anthesis application only. Higher concentrations of desiccant had greater affects. Treated medium height near isogenic lines exceeded the short and tall lines (P<0.05 and P<0.01) for grain yield, biological yield, and number of kernels per spike. The tall near isogenic lines had the highest kernel weight. The chemical desiccant sodium chlorate applied as a 3% solution at either heading or 15 days post-anthesis might be used to screen for drought tolerance in wheat. The medium height semidwarf wheats yielded more than the tall or short height near isogenic lines under chemical desiccant stress.
23786284|In a three year study (1994-96) reduced soil tillage variants proved satisfactory for winter wheat grown on Humogley soil in Eastern Croatia in the absence of herbicides. During the experiment the conventional tillage (ploughing, disk-harrowing, standard sowing) did not give significantly higher yields compared to the reduced tillage treatments (disk-harrowing; tillage by multitiller with chisels; seedbed preparation (rototiller) + sowing by rotosem; and ploughing, seedbed preparation + sowing by rotosem). Production of weed biomass at the conventional tillage equalled the treatment tillage by rototiller + sowing by rotosem, but was significantly lower than in other tillage treatments. Totally, nitrogen fertilisation had a significant influence upon wheat yield increase at each N level (140, 170, and 200 kg ha1), whereas the efficacy of fertilisation upon yields was higher at reduced tillage treatments without ploughing than at the conventional tillage. The correlation between crop yield and weed biomass decreased along with the increase of N level. Winter wheat had a higher N optimum than its weed component, which points out that for this crop N fertilisation at reduced tillage systems can be used as a measure for weed control. The reduced tillage variant with rototiller + sowing by rotosem turned out to be entirely competitive with the conventional tillage regarding yield and weed biomass, as well as a higher resistance to weather conditions.
23784293|A four-day root bioassay, originally used to identify aluminum toxic soils, was adapted for distinguishing among cereal species and cultivars for tolerance to soil acidity. Acid tolerance was related to the extent of inhibition of root elongation in an aluminum-toxic acid soil (pH = 4.2) relative to root elongation in the same soil treated with lime (pH = 5.1). The method is relatively quick, simple, and inexpensive. The method can also be used to screen segregating populations because assayed seedlings are still viable and can be transplanted for growing until harvest. The following ranking of acid soil tolerance of cereal species was obtained using the bioassay method: rye (Secale cereale L.) > oat (Avena sativa L.) > millet (Panicum miliaceum L.) > common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) > barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) > macaroni wheat (Triticum durum Desf.).
23783714|A two-year field study was conducted at Normandin (Quebec, Canada) to determine the effect of two row spacings (10 and 18 cm) and five seeding rates (280, 320, 360, 400 and 440 viable seeds m2) on Cadette spring barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Decreasing the row spacing from 18 to 10 cm increased grain yield by 25% in 1987 and 14% in 1988. Number of fertile heads m2, 1000 kernel weight and the number of fertile heads produced per plant were higher (P < 0.05) with narrow row spacing. Row spacing had not effect on the number of kernals per head. Seeding rate did not influence grain yield but increased the number of fertile heads m2 and decreased the number of fertile heads per plant and the number of kernels per head.
90003128|In this paper we present results of heavy metal content investigation of mosses growing under elevated air CO
90002750|Atmospheric depositions are important external factors of soil-plant systems, especially trace metals and nitrogen need to be cosidered. Annual average atmospheric concentrations and depositions of sulfur and nitrogen species, as well as trace metals in Hungary and its surrounding regions were estimated by model computations. Spatial and temporal variations of the distributions are presented in the paper. In the case of atmospheric lead, the cumulative atmospheric depositions were estimated for a sixty years long period until 2015 using historical emission factors for the past decades as well as emission scenarios for the future. It was found that Hungary belongs to the moderately polluted regions in Europe.
23782867|We have evaluated the aneuploidy of tritordeum as one of the characters of importance on the future of this new plant. Primary tritordeum lines recently sinthesized, lines with many generations, and recombination lines selected for high fertility have been studied. The relationship between aneuploidy, fertility and meiosis has been investigated. The results are compared with the obtained in triticale. The aneuploidy rate in tritordeum is lower than in triticale. No correlation between meiotic behaviour and fertility or aneuploidy has been found.
90002915|The trial included 3 planting date treatments (early, optimum and late) and 2 nitrogen rate treatments (56 kg N ha
23792342|Pherocon AM (PhAM) trapping and visual counting are two commonly used methods for identifying maize fields in the USA that contain a sufficient number of adult western corn rootworms (WCR), Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte to cause economic root damage by larvae the following year. Therefore, the estimation of adult WCR population plays an important role in management decisions (rotation or treatment). The goals of this study were (1) to compare adult WCR data obtained by PhAM trapping to "whole plant count" data in different maize developmental stages, (2) to determine the period in which the data obtained by both methods show the highest correlation, (3) to determine the regression curve between capture of WCR on PhAM as an independent variable and number of WCR observed by visual plant count, and (4) to determine if the "whole plant count" method can serve as a substitution for PhAM trapping under European conditions. Three samplings were conducted in 2006 in 38 fields in Croatia and one sampling was conducted in 22 fileds in Serbia. Sampling in Croatia was conducted when maize plants were in the R 6569, R 7377 and R 7985 developmental stages according to BBCH identification keys of maize. Sampling in Serbia was conducted when maize plants reached R 6971 developmental stages. Three to six PhAM traps were placed in each 0.5 to 4 ha maize field seven days prior to sampling. Visual counts were conducted on the same day as trap inspections. Adult WCR densities in the PhAM traps were correlated to adult densities on whole plants. Statistical analyses comparing the results of PhAM trapping with the visual "whole plant count" method showed that there is a significant medium to strong correlation between them. Correlation coefficients varied depending on the data used in the analysis. When sampling was conducted in the first half of August (maize developmental stages R 6977), the correlation coefficients were the highest (r (R6971) = 0.8677 and r (R7377) = 0.706). Coefficients of determination were the highest as well [r 2 (R 6971) = 0.753; r 2 (R 7377) = 0.4984]. Therefore, the most appropriate period for sampling is during the first half of August. At that time, the majority of the maize plants were between the R 69 and R 77 developmental stages. According to the results, 0.51 visually determined adult/plant corresponds to 40 adults/trap/week. This shows that both methods are equally useful for estimating the population densities of WCR in the Central European region.
23783031|Vernalisation response of 21 wheat strains representing a wide range of variation in flowering duration was investigated under two distinct environments with markedly different temperature and photoperiod regimes on the duration of three component phases of flowering period i.e. up to (i) appearance of floral primordia (double ridge) or the basic vegetative phase, (ii) from double ridge formation to apperance of the terminal spikelet and (iii) from terminal spikelet formation to emergence of spike from flag leaf sheath. There were marked differences in the response of varieties belonging to different physiological groups. The response was also highly influenced by the two environments. Very high response to vernalisation were recorded in the basic vegetative phase in all the winter types during both the seasons. In the mild winter types response was recorded up to the appearance of the terminal spikelet. The duration after this stage till the emergence of the spike seemed to be more influenced by photoperiod. The intermediate types also showed very high response to vernalisation during all the developmental phases but these types did not seem to show any respose to the variations in the photoperiod. The spring types exhibited varying degrees of response which was highly influenced by growing season. Sonora 64 was the only strain which did not show any response to vernalisation or photoperiod in any of the developmental phase.
23789797|Sprout damage in durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum) is caused by pre-harvest sprouting. It reduces seed quality and causes a loss of starch gel viscosity, which negatively affects the pasta industry. The objectives of this research were to study the relationship between sprouting score and sprout damage in two durum wheat populations grown at Langdon, and Prosper, ND, to test the sensitivity of the stirring number test compared with the falling number test for estimating sprout damage, and to evaluate the effect of cutting date on sprout damage. A negative correlation between sprouting and sprout damage was detected in both populations. The stirring number test was more sensitive than the falling number method, but the two tests were positively correlated when sprouted and sound seeds were used. Cutting date did not significantly affect sprouting score. There was no significant cutting date x genotype interaction. Viscosity loss due to sprouting was complete in the two populations.
23782981|Spring barley seedlings respond to an increase in CO2 concentration with enhanced net assimilation rates and crop growth rates. Among 20 genotyps the variability in the response to 400 /ul. 11 and the more to 1500 /ul. 11 was so large that it seems worthwhile considering the CO2 response in breeding programs.
23789900|The effect of inbreeding on yield potential per plant and the load of deleterious genes in maize (Zea mays L.) were studied. Twelve recycled hybrids obtained though inbreeding and selection on the basis line performance per se, along with their original hybrid PR 3183 and the check hybrid B73xMo17, were tested in a R28 honeycomb trial under very low density (0.74 plants/m2). Inbreeding depression was related with reduced yield potential per plant and increased CV of individual plant yield (estimated in F1 and F3), as well as with increased heterosis. The recycled hybrids were found to have improved yield potential per plant in both F1 and F3, lower CV values in F3, and lower inbreeding depression. Results were indicative of the effective exploitation of the additive genetic effects, which reduced the load of deleterious genes, and produced less heterozygous hybrids that were characterized by improved yield potential per plant.
23786089|Grain yield is considered to be polygenic and influenced by the environment. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) mapping experiments conducted in several environments might increase the understanding of genotype x environment interactions and improve the selection response in wheat breeding. The objectives of this study were both to compare the QTLs for grain yield and yield component traits detected in a population of durum wheat evaluated in different environments, and to investigate the relationship among the genetic factors controlling these traits. A set of recombinant inbred (RI) lines was evaluated for grain yield and test weight in four trials and for grain yield components in eight trials. By using a linkage map of 217 loci, a total of 52 QTLs was detected that were significant in at least one environment at P0.001 or in at least 2 environments at P0.01. QTLs for multiple traits were detected in 13 of 19 chromosomal regions, suggesting pleiotropic effects of single QTLs or the effects of tightly linked QTLs controlling yield components. Evidence of genotype x environment interaction was found by comparing QTL maps of the same population grown in several environments.
90003074|To evaluate the efficiency of rapid field tests for potato nitrogen management, five N fertilizer treatments (0, 100, 150, 200 and 250 kg N ha
23782925|A spring wheat (c.v. "Sappo") was grown on a sandy loam soil in lysimeters in the field. The lysimeters were automatically protected from rain by a mobile glass roof. Each drought treatment consisted of a single period without irrigation. Drought which was terminated before heading caused development of late tillers which appeared after heading had ceased. The late tillers contributed up to 39% of the final grain yield, but they ripened two weeks later than the normal tillers did.
90003121|The drive of economic growth is the continuous technical and economic renewal and innovation. For these reasons applied research based on high level may lay foundations. The utilization of the result of basic research may mean a lasting economic benefit. For this the country has to be well-founded and suitable for R+D activities, which is needed to be continued.
23787570|The comparisons among the 6 selection indices S1, S2, S3 (simultaneous selection indices comprising of X1 only; X1+X5 and X1+X2+X3+X4 respectively as their component traits), S4 (Rank summation index), S5 (Baker's standard deviation index) and S6 (Elston's weight free index) were made involving 4 primary cold tolerance traits namely field emergence per cent (X1), fresh seedling root mass (X2), seedling dry weight (X3), days to 50% silk emergence (X5) along with grain yield ha1 (X4). Highly significant rank correlations of proposed selection indices conferred the suitability in use of one index if substituted for other, to score the genotypes for selection. Selection differentials for all the indices were generally positive with respect to the traits X1, X2, X3 and X4 except S2 which, was accompanied with negative differentials for X2, X3 and X4. S1 was found to be an important cold tolerance trait depicting not so less differentials compared to other traits and had positive differentials under each selection criteria. Index S6 was efficient in selecting early silking varieties with high yield and tolerance to cold. The populations NDSM 8 WN, NDSAB (MER), NDSLC and land races GL20W and Dawar-2 showed high degree of cold tolerance among 67 genotypes evaluated and showed at par results with the C15 check which was top ranking under 5 out of 6 selection used.
23781505|Development of the seminal root system in four ert-mutants and their tall mother variety Hevilla under high and low soil irrigation levels was evaluated in relation to their shoot performance.Sloping glass-faced boxes were used.Substantial genetic variation was found for all juvenile root traits.Watering levels had an important effect on the expression of root traits, especially on the depth of soil penetration and total length of the seminal root system.But a significant genotype-irrigation interaction occured.The drought hardy ert-mutants had a deeper and more extensive root system indicating an usefulness of the seminal root traits in selection for drought resistance and yield improvement of erectoides.
90002862|The bioconversion of the inorganic Se(IV) to elemental selenium form by yoghurt culture was investigated. The whey-yeast extract media were mixed with 1, 2, 5, 10 and 20 ppm of Se(IV) and incubated with yoghurt culture at 40 C for 24 h. Up to 5 ppm of Se, the bacterial growth rate closely resembled that of the control. However, cells grown in the presence of 10 and 20 ppm of Se(IV) showed longer lag phase and low growth rates compared to the other treatments. Red color of the elemental Se was accumulated in the bacterial cell cultivated with more than 5 ppm of Se after 24 h of incubation. A dose independent bioconversion rate of selenium to organic and elemental form was observed in the media supernatant. The inorganic Se was completely bioconverted in the cultured media at the level of 1 ppm after 4 h of incubation. But in higher concentration elemental selenium nanospeheres were formed inside the bacteria as the result of detoxification mechanism. According to the electronmicroscopy pictures, the size of spheres is in the 100-500 nm range and controlled by the species of bacteria. Applying only one species of bacteria a very homogenous particle size distribution of the produced elemental selenium can be achieved.
23788055|Bridge crosses utilizing the D genome synthetic hexaploids (SH), Triticum turgidum / Aegilops tauschii (2n = 6x = 42, AABBDD), are a potent means of improving bread wheat (T. aestivum) for biotic and abiotic stresses. The synthetic germplasm enables incorporation of the genetic diversity of T. turgidum cultivars together with the attributes of the Ae. tauschii accessions. In this research, SH wheats were screened for karnal bunt in Obregon, Mexico over six crop cycles and several SHs were earlier identified with an immune response. These SHs have unique Ae. tauschii accessions as parents. Phenologicaly descriptors and additional trait evaluations led us to develop a sub-set of the most desirable combinations for wheat breeding. The SH wheats are generally tall, late to mature, have good agronomic type, and are non-free threshing with a high 1000 kernel weight. All have a spring growth habit with several possessing multiple stress resistances. The resistance exhibited by SH wheats has been transferred into elite but KB susceptible bread wheat cultivars thus generating a new and unique genetic resource that can be readily exploited by conventional breeding programs.
23783944|We assessed cytoplasmic effects on dry matter allocation in grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) plants after anthesis. Two isonuclear lines but with different (male-fertile and male-sterile) cytoplasms were used for the experiments. In male-sterile grain sorghum proportionately more dry matter used allocated to the leaf sheath and stem than in malefertile grain sorghum. However, the dry weight of male sterile sorghum plants after 40 days of anthesis was only 73 % of that of the fertile grain sorghum. When the male-sterile line was pollinated with pollen from the fertile one, the dry matter production and allocation pattern was similar to that of the fertile grain sorghum. Thus, fertilization was essential for dry matter production even though photosynthetic potential had not been genetically modified.
90003087|This paper determines relative profitability of ten sweet corn varieties grown on two locations in Slovenia during 2006 and 2007. Ear yields heavier than 220 g are sold in fresh state while the rest has industry processing purpose. We determined that highest profits in average was 2.719 EUR ha
23785407|The aim of this work was to identify a disease parameter with which the mycotoxin content in kernels of artificially inoculated wheat genotypes can be predicted for breeding purposes. In total 108 winter and spring wheat genotypes, the resistance of which varied from highly resistant to very susceptible, were artificially inoculated with a F. culmorum isolate known to produce large amounts of deoxynivalenol (DON). Several field and laboratory parameters were investigated and the data were correlated with the DON content of the harvested wheat kernels. Correlation coefficients varied (in absolute values) from 0.33 to 0.81. It is concluded that for practical breeding purposes visual scores of the disease on the field (e.g. the area under the disease progress curve: r = 0.81) or the percentage of bleached kernels in the harvested samples (r = 0.76) give a good estimation of the DON content for a reasonable labour input.
23782738|Yield and protein content were studied in the progeny from crosses of Hiproly with six two-rowed and two six-rowed barley strains. Protein content showed high heritability and a result of predominantly additive effects as indicated by a high value for general combining ability (G.C.A.). By combining Hiproly with higher yielding cultivars, it was possible to obtain progeny with high protein yield.
90002711|Alfalfa is one of the most important forage legumes which forms symbiotic relation with nitrogen fixing bacteria
23784236|Leaf blade area, blade thickness (on vein and between veins), thickness of mesophyll, cell size (height, width) of the photosynthetic tissue, and size (height, width) of vascular bundles were examined in thirty wheat genotypes of different geographical origin. Significant differences among genotype were obtained in all the means characteristics under consideration. Calculated values of the variance components (2g, 2e, 2f), variation coefficient, and heritability show the importance of the genetic variance in blade area and height of cells of the photosynthetic tissue while the role of the ecological variance is more evident in the expression of other traits.
90003052|This paper presents some detailed results on the spring growth of timothy (
90003316|Four nozzle types were tested on large scale trials with 2500 m
90003304|Fusarium head blight caused mainly by
23783644|Semolina from three durum wheat varieties (Stork-s, SZD 8, Attila) was blended with 0.25, 0.50, 1.00 and 2.00 % w/w sodium stearoyl-2-lactylate (SSL). Quality parameters including mixing properties (farinograph and mixograph tests), gluten strength (SDS sedimentation test), cooking quality (aleurograph test) and color indices were assessed. SSL-free semolinas served as controls. SSL at all levels remarkably delayed dough developing time, increased stability and total areas under curve during mixing. Gluten strength significantly increased with the added SSL up to 1.0% Addition of optimum amount (0.5%) of SSL also improved the firmness of cooked pasta and increased its tolerance to overcooking. SSL had only minor effects on semolina yellow and brown indices. Optimum amount (0.5%) of SSL added to the semolina resulted in an improved cooking quality of low protein or weak gluten verieties without sacrifying their superior color.
90002906|The limnological characters of Lake Balaton is largely determined and affected by the structures of her littoral regions. From 2000 to 2006 significant water level changes characterized the lake which had an effect on Lakes life.
90003237|To analyze the deoxynivalenol induction mechanism, effects of 12 carbon sources on the production of deoxynivalenol (DON) and 3-acetyldexynivalenol (3ADON) were examined in liquid cultures incubated with 9 strains of 3ADON-producing
90003223|Fumonisins were extracted from a rice culture which had been inoculated with
90003479|Detailed hydrophysical survey was performed on the research plot of 150  300 m near Moravsk Svt Jn village at April 10
23777667|Correlations and path coefficient analysis was studied in F1, F2 and F3 generations of a 6  6 diallel cross of wheat. Grain yield had high positive association with spike number, spikelet per spike and seed per spike in all the generations. From path coefficient analysis it was concluded that seed per spike and spike number had high direct effect on grain yield and thus they are important components of yield in wheat. It was thus suggested that the plant breeders should give maximum emphasis on seed per spike and spike number for selection of high yielding individuals in segregating generations of wheat.
23780426|Plant height, yield components and grain quality characters were examined in random F3 and F4 lines derived from crosses involving Tom Thumb wheat and two tall varieties. -amylase activity in mature and sprouted grain was reduced in lines homozygous for Gai/Rht3. Ear yields were unaffected by the gene, however spikelet fertility was increased. Tiller numbers, spikelet numbers, dormancy, nitrogen levels and sedimentation values were unaffected to any major extent.
23779178|The chemical composition of epicuticular waxes of Triticum aestivum DEMAR 4 from different plant tissue has been investigated. The largest amount of wax is on the blades followed by the heads and sheaths. The wax is composed by n-alkanes,free alcohols, esters, -diketones and hydroxy -diketones. The -dicarbonyl compounds are present in larger percentage in the heads and sheaths than in the blades. Furthermore, there is a strict relation between the alcohols and ketones content of the wax: an increse f ketones coincides with a marked decrease in alcohols percentage and viceversa.
23777672|Investigation was carried out on the inheritance of protein and lysine contents in F1, F2 and F3 in hybrids between octoploid and hexaploid Triticale forms. The prospects of some hybrid combinations in regard to protein and lysine contents were assessed and the correlation dependance between protein and lysine contents in these hybrids was studied. The parental forms in the combination AD-SOS-3-2  AD-6443 were found to be distinguished by high protein and lysine contents. The F1 hybrids showed heterosis effect for protein and lysine contents in comparison to the initial forms and this effect was retained in F3 also. In the F1 hybrids of the combination AD-SOS-3-2  AD-64 heterosis effect for protein and lysine contents was observed in single plants only. The prevailing number of plants showed intermediate inheritance of protein and lysine in F2 and F3, the average values being nearer to these of AD-64 which is the parent with lower protein and lysine contents. In studing the prospects of 440 hybrid plants from 10 combinations, it was found that hybridization between octoploid and hexaploid Triticale forms gives opportunities for development of lines much richer in protein and lysine than wheat, rye and also than initial Triticale forms. Positive crrelation dependance was established between the content of protein and lysine in the protein in hybrids between octoploid and hexaploid Triticale forms.
23782740|The crossability of hexaploid triticale (female)  durum wheats (pollinator), the meiotic stability of F1 plants and its utilization to obtain backcross and F2 progenies have been investigated. At least one hybrid plant from each of 10 different crosses from a total of 19 hexaploid triticale  durum wheat hybridizations were obtained. F1 seeds germinated well (32.8%) and the meiotic behaviour of F1 was near to expected under the assumption of homologous pairing (14 bivalents + 14 univalents). These results and the effectivity in the obtention of F2 and single backcross by both parents permit to suppose that these hybridization is a reliable method to expand the genetic potential to improve hexaploid triticale and durum wheat.
90002894|In our experiment we have examined the production of baby beetroot under different growing method from the traditional one, with shorter maturity period and with different genotypes on alluvial meadow soil. In this growing phase tender leaves can be consumed so examining the mineral element content of lamina and petiole was considered important. On the whole, it can be concluded that the suitability for growing of the examined 6 varieties for baby beetroot was proved in the case of variety
23789912|Field experiments were conducted over two years under low input conditions to know the influence of bio-inoculants, namely arbuscular mycorrhiza fungi (AMF, Glomus fasciculatum) and Azotobacter chroococcum (Azc) on the performance and gene effects for important root and plant characters in three crosses of wheat (WH147xWH157,WH147xPBW175 and WH147xWH542). Six generations representing P1, P2, F1, F2, BC1 and BC2 populations of each cross were grown in randomized block design with three replications. The estimate of means (m) indicated that bio-inoculants enhanced the mean performance of most of the characters and root length density and grain yield in some crosses only. Crop season also showed considerable effect on impact of bio-inoculants. The joint scaling test revealed adequacy of additive-dominance model of gene effects for root biomass, root length density, flag leaf area, tillers/plant, grain weight and grain yield in all the crosses and bio-inoculants treatments in both years. The AMF treatment brought about changes in the magnitude and significance of additive component for root biomass, plant height, flag leaf area in all the three crosses. Both additive (d) and dominance (h) components were affected with respect to grain yield in WH147xWH157 and WH147xWH542. The dominant component was important for tillers/plant, grain yield, root length in control, as well as bio-inoculants treated populations of WH147xPBW175 but treatment of AMF and AMF+Azc reduced the magnitude of h and increased the magnitude of d. Digenic interactions were prominent for grains/spike in WH147xWH157. Magnitude of digenic interactions was higher under bio-inoculation. Simple pedigree and bulk pedigree methods are suggested to capitalize on adequate additive gene effects for developing bio-inoculants responsive wheat genotypes.
23790359|PEG-6000 induced osmotic stress caused differences in the relative water content (RWC), in the leaves of tested varieties of winter triticale. The highest values of RWC were observed for the Hortenso, Kazo and Gniewko varieties. The observed, low values of osmotic potential, allow one to conclude, that these varieties have adapted to stress conditions by maintaining the osmoregulation. Since osmotic tolerance is part of drought tolerance, the ability to maintain the osmotic regulation can be an important factor in the selection of varieties/genotypes resistant to the water deficit in the soil. The effectiveness of the photosynthetic apparatus was observed for above-mentioned varieties, with high values of RWC. The response test to the osmotic stress induced by the PEG solution, carried out under laboratory conditions, justified the decision to include Timbo in the group of drought resistant plants and as a standard physiological response to drought.
23789852|This study was undertaken to investigate the allelic diversity in seed storage proteins in 11 substituted hexaploid triticale cultivars (all spring). These cultivars were developed at the Cereal Institute of Thessaloniki, Hellas, in the 1970s and 1980s, after selection on segregating material originating from International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT). Seeds from each line were used to determine alleles at the loci for high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS) Glu-A1, Glu-B1, Glu-R1 (or Sec-3) and gliadins (the loci Gli-A1 and Gli-B1). For this to be done, acid polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis for gliadins and SDS-electrophoresis for high molecular weight glutenins (HMW-GS) were applied. Analysis of the electrophoretic patterns obtained from the above-mentioned material revealed that only 5 out of the 11 cultivars were biochemically uniform (cv. 'Vryto', 'Thisvi', 'Dada', 'Leto' and 'Ekate'). On the contrary, the rest of the cultivars, despite they were under seed production process, exhibited heterogeneity. Cv. 'Dada', which was found to be uniform, is of special interest, due to its productivity, especially under drought stress conditions.
90002726|The effects of soil and climatic properties was studied on the winter wheat (
90003294|The objective of this research was to determine the impact of four previous crops (barley, dry pea, red clover and soybean) and four nitrogen fertilization rates (0, 40, 80 and 120 kg ha
23789297|The value of different dwarfing genes in winter wheat breeding was studied using 6 near-isogenic lines carrying different Rht dwarfing genes over three years experiment. Results showed that both the Rht-B1b and Rht-D1b semi-dwarfing genes had significantly positive effects on kernel number and grain weight per spike, and had significantly negative effects on 1000-grain weight comparing to the tall line (Rht-B1a). The Rht-B1c dwarfing gene had a significantly negative effect on kernel number per spike, and had positive effect on 1000-grain weight. The combination of the Rht-D1b and Rht-B1c gene showed significantly negative effect on yield components. All of these 5 dwarfing or semi-dwarfing genotypes mentioned above had significantly negative effect on plant height and no significantly effect on the area of flag leaf, spikelets per spike and spike length.
23782885|Interspecific and intergeneric hybridization of wheat is of increasing importance at present. When applying in vitro techniques in such hybridization programs, it is necessary to learn about the in vitro reaction of the crossing partners. In this connection, in vitro reaction of two wheat cvs. (Chinese Spring, Cheyenne), four Agropyron elongatum lines, Agropyron intermedium and Aegilops cylindrica was studied from the aspects of plant regenerating ability in embryo culture, as well as callus inducing and regenerating ability in callus cultures of immature-embryo origin. The wheat cv. Chinese Spring showed an outstanding performance in both culture systems. Among the wild species, Ae. cylindrica and the US line of A. elongatum responded similarly well, whereas plant regenerating ability of A. intermedium callus cultures was poor. It is indicated that remarkable variation might exist within a species in respect of the parameters investigated.
90002914|Two years pot experiments under glasshouse conditions were conducted in order to study the virus inhibitory side-effect of some herbicides (napropamide, pendimethalin, fluazifop-P-butyl) on pepper-
90002873|The objective of this study was to measure and compare soil-water infiltration, soil water retention and bulk density at three soil depths of non-carbonate silty clay gleyic fluvisol in the Kolubara river valley (West Serbia) under natural deciduous forest and meadow vegetation and the adjacent gleyic fluvisol used for more than 100 years as cultivated soil, with the same site conditions. Five infiltration measurement were made in each of three treatments. The results showes that the forest soil has the highest steady infiltration rate. The infiltration rate for the forest was about 2.5 times higher compared with the meadow and about 6 times higher compared with the cultivated soil. The soil water content for a selected pressure was the highest in the forest soil in the 015 cm depth compared with the meadow and cultivated soils. The meadow and cultivated soils did not show any significant (
90003381|In sense of optimization of site-specific nutrient-supply we studied the effect and interactions between hybrid, nutrient-supply and irrigation on the yield, starch-content and starch-yield within the confines of a long-term field experiment at Debrecen-Ltkp. We found that the yield and the starch-content was optimal on a nutrient-level 120: 92: 108 kg ha
23786769|Long term high plant regeneration was obtained from embryogenic callus induced from immature embryo explants of Hordeum vulgare cv RD-57 cultured on MSB medium supplemented with Picloram (2 and 4mg l1). In the subsequent subcultures different types of calli were recognised which could be distinguished from each other on the basis of their morphology, growth and plant regeneration ability. Best growth and maintenance of embryogenic state of callus was achieved on MSB medium supplemented with Picloram (2 mgl1). For plant regeneration, embryogenic callus was transferred to hormone free MSB medium. Regenerated plantlets were rooted either on hormone free MSB medium or MSB medium supplemented with IAA (0.5 mgl1). The regenerated plants were transferred to field conditions where they matured and set seeds. Histological studies of embryogenic callus revealed all the stages of typical somatic embryogenesis. In addition, atypical somatic embryos and secondary somatic embryogenesis was also observed and occasionally de novo shoot morphogenesis was seen in the same cultures.
23779091|Eighteen varieties of Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) were sown during December, 1976 at Crop Research Centre, G.B.Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar. The correlation and path-coefficient studies were made between yield per shoot, flag-leaf-area, 1000-grain weight and grain number per shoot. The grain yield was found associated positively with grain number and 1000-grain weight, whereas the association between yield and flag leaf-area was not significant. The direct effect of grain number per shoot on yield was more than the direct effect of 1000-grain weight. Multiple correlation coefficient (R2) showed that all these 3 factors (flag leaf area, grain number and 1000-grain weight) accounted 98% of the total variation in the yield (R2= 0.976).
23781340|By pollination of barley-wheat hybrids (H. vulgare  T. aestivum) with rye (S. cereale, S. montanum) viable trigeneric hybrids with 5x = 35 chromosomes could be produced without embryo culture. Analogous polyhaploid and morphologically similar hybrids (4x = 28 and 5x = 35 chromosomes) have been produced via embryo culture as result of the crosses H. vulgare  Triticale (6x and 8x). According to the hitherto existing results the hybrids are completely sterile.
23778601|Harvest Index (HI) for 17 triticale, 3 wheat, and 3 rye lines was determined in order to see if selection for higher grain yield and lower dry weight per plant could be accomplished. Wheat cultivar 'Arthur 71' had the highest HI (35.8%), followed by triticales AM 2147 (33.6%), 'Beagle' (32.1%), and AM 2149 (29.0%). A highly significant (0.768) association between grain yield and dry weight indicated that selection on grain yield alone would not result in a higher HI. Three lines having the highest HI among triticales also had the lowest dry weights. They ranked 2nd (AM 2147), 9th (Beagle), and 13th (AM 2149) among the 17 in grain yield per plant, indicating that advancement could be made in selection for higher grain yield combined with higher HI values.
23780370|Out of eleven ditelosomics and nullisomics (ditelo-1A, -2A, -3B, -4B, -5B, -5D and nulli -1B, -5A, -6A, -6D and -7A) of the var. Cadet tested for phenol colour reaction of seed coat, nulli-7A and ditelo-5D only showed almost negatively and light brown reactions respectively. Cadet and all other aneuploid lines showed black reaction. It was concluded that there are some gene (genes) controlling phenol colour reaction carried on chromosome 7A and on the missing arm of chromosome 5D and that there are at least two stages involved in this reaction. First stage of this reaction is governed by the gene (genes) located on chromosome 7A and it is carried to an intermediate brown colour. The gene(genes) located on the missing arm of chromosome 5D control the next stage and carry the reaction to the final black colour.
23782964|Genetic parameters were estimated for starch gel consistency and percent low seed density in S1 families from two related sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] populations. Considerable variability existed for both traits in both populations, and heritability values (0.60 and 0.62 for starch gel consistency and 0.92 and 0.92 for seed density) were similar in the two populations. The seed density test was simpler to conduct and was deemed to have greater utility in plant breeding programs involving recurrent selection. The starch gel consistency test could be used for screening more limited inbred material.
23786807|Fusarium avenaceum is pathogenic on a wide range of hosts. Isolates of F. avenaceum were obtained from root samples of different crops including lupins, beans, wheat and brassicas from fields at Rothamsted with different cropping histories. Nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) from 80 isolates was amplified by PCR using ITS4 and ITS5 primers. RFLP analysis revealed two definite pattern of bands suggesting two distinct groups among the isolates. Analysis using RAPDs revealed great variation among isolates, including those from the same host and from the same field. Vegetative compatibility was studied in 20 isolates by using nit-mutants and high VCG diversity was observed with 16 VCGs. Our results suggest a high degree of variation among the isolates of F. avenaceum.
23781503|Two methods of variety maintenance of hybrid maize were analysed economically. The share of variety maintenance in the total costs of the seed production verticum necessary for commercial corn production was investigated, too. Visual selection requires 1/5 of the area demanded by the variety maintenance based on the specific combining ability. Male sterile strains can be maintained on a 1.3-1.6 times greater area than normal ones. The total engagement of assets is more than treble in the case of the method based on the specific combining ability of sublines. The necessary technical development also increases the intensive demand of assets. For the determination of the specific combining ability 2.2-2.4 times more manual work is needed than using visual selection. The male sterile inbred lines require 47% and 34% more manual work, respectively, than the normal ones. On the basis of the input, the testing of the specific combining ability is 110% more expensive than visual selection. The surplus cost of the maintenance of the male sterile strains amounts to 27%, which is, however, a very advantageous "investment" being recovered already in the F1 seed production. Comparing the two methods on the level of the variety maintainers one can conclude that visual selection is a more advantageous and more economic method from the point of view of labour, energy, time and costs requirements. Also the limited supply of labour and money stimulates the variety maintainers to use this method. However, it is not sure that this is the most advantageous method from the point of view of the national economy. In order to decide this, exact experiments and the evaluation of the results are needed. The small share of the variety maintenance in the total costs of the seed production verticum does not express the economic importance of this activity. Its continuous development is made more and more necessary by the increasing level of maize production.
23785291|Two combinations of leaf rust races with different virulence in mixtures were tested for competitive ability on some isogenic Thatcher lines with "defeated" resistance genes. There was either positive and negative correlation between virulence and competitive ability. It seems that the virulence is not the factor determining the survival ability of the races, but the particular host-pathogen genotypes interaction. The "defeated" Lr genes for resistance have some residual effect conditioned lower level of resistance that is race-specific. Competitive ability of races may be explained by the particular host-pathogen genes interaction.
23785344|Hexaploid wheat lines (Triticum aestivum L.) obtained with the participation of Aegilops umbellulata as a donor of genes for resistance to brown leaf rust were investigated. The wheat lines were phytopathologically differentiated as resistant and susceptible to the disease mentioned. Protein components and subunits of three groups of storage proteins were analyzed in search of biochemical markers for resistance. The banding patterns were obtained by vertical block polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. In the gliadin and glutenin patterns were established differences which indicate that rearrangement between homoeologous loci on 1AS+1DS chromosomes of wheat and the 1U chromosome of Ae.umbellulata had occured in the resistant line R 12. These alterations in the pattern of R 12 wheat line compared to the susceptible S 15 line could be examined as biochemical markers of 1U chromosome from Ae.umbellulata.
90002986|Changes of botanical composition and concentration of P, Ca, Fe, Zn and Cu in the plants were monitored on the two rotation lowlands pastures during the pasture season. It was determined that all investigated pasture traits varied. Analysis of botanical composition of pastures showed the decrease legumes portion and the increase grasses portion. Analysis of the sheep blood serum shows significant variations in P and Zn concentrations which can be related to diverse pasture botanical and mineral composition.
23783878|Plantlets of Triticum aestivum cv. Opata. were established by the in vitro culture of mature embryos. Differences in growth and development were dependent upon excision procedures and the chemical constitution of culture medium. Dry seeds-excised embryos (DSEE), either imbibed or not, did not develop into normal seedlings. Embryo excised from imbibed seeds (ISEE) yielded normal embryos seedlings growth and development when in vitro cultured. Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium was optimum for mature embryo culture. One-half or one-quarter of strength of MS medium inhibited growth by 40% and 53% respectively. Both Gamborg and Eveleigh, and White media inhibited height, root and leaf number by 23% and 46% respectively. Ammonium (< than 1650 mg/L) and calcium (< than 440 mg/L) ion concentrations were limiting factors for normal growth and development of mature embryo-derived wheat seedlings. However, the sugar source (sucrose, maltose and glucose) did not have a significant effect on embryo performance.
23789662|Influences of irrigation rates and N fertilization on soybean grain yield and N leaching were tested under field conditions on Osijek, during the growing seasons 2001, 2003 and 2005 (A). The irrigation started on level of 80% field water capacity, A1 (FWC) and at level of 65% FWC, A2 and irrigate up to FWC, and non-irrigated, A3. Increased rates of N: 0, B1; 100, B2 and 200 kg N ha1, B3 were applied. The experiment was conducted by split-plot method. Ebermeier's lysimeters (open type: 80 x 80 x 10 cm) were conducted for collecting leachate for measuring nitrogen leaching. The soybean grain yield showed statistical very significant differences in growing season, irrigation and interaction of growing season and irrigation. Mean leaching NO3-N varied from 0.32 kg N ha1 to 7.88 kg N ha1 in year 2001, while were greater in year 2005 and varied form 2.41 kg N ha1 to 23.71 kg N ha1.
23790366|The dwarf-male-sterile wheat is unique to China and has been improved by introducing good germplasm. In order to clear the subunits background of Dwarf-Male-Sterile wheat, sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) was used to detect the high and low molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS and LMW-GS) compositions in BC 1 F 1 , F 2 and F 3 generations from Dwarf-Male-Sterile wheat. Twenty-five alleles and 49 HMW-GS compositions at the Glu-1 loci were detected in different generations. Null and subunit 1 were mainly existed at Glu-A1, and 7 + 8 and 7 + 9 were primarily detected at Glu-B1 in different generations. Subunit combination 5 + 10 mainly appeared in BC 1 F 1 , while 2 + 12 major presented in F 2 and F 3 generations. HMW-GS compositions null, 7 + 8, 5 + 10 and null, 7 + 9, 5 + 10 showed higher frequencies than other banding patterns, followed by null, 14 + 15, 5 + 10 and null, 7 + 9,2 + 12 combinations. In addition, some rare subunit combinations such as 14 + 15, 13 + 16, 17 + 18,4 + 12, 2 + 10 and 5 + 12 were found in different generations. Eighteen alleles and 51 LMW-GS compositions at Glu-3 loci were found in different generations. Glu-A3a and Glu-B3d showed higher frequencies than others among three generations. There were mainly a, b, c alleles at Glu-D3. Thirty, 31 and 14 different combinations were detected in BC 1 F 1 , F 2 and F 3 populations, respectively. There were some good combinations such as A3d/B3h, A3d/B3d/D3a, A3b/B3b/D3a, A3a/B3d/D3a for different quality characteristics. So some desirable subunit combinations could be selected from different generations and new cultivars with good quality under distinct subunits background should be bred from Dwarf-Male-Sterile wheat in future.
90003328|The objective of this research is to enhance Fusarium head blight by transferring
23784282|Water soluble, water insoluble and total -glucan and phytic acid contents were studied in three 2-row and three 6-row barley varieties at five locations in Finland. The test varieties were: Pomo, a 6-row feed and enzymic malting barley; Arra and Kalle, 6-row feed barleys; Ida and Mette, 2-row feed barleys, and Apex, a 2-row malting barley. Significant differences were found in the concentrations of water soluble -glucan and phytic acid between locations. Significantly higher total -glucan contents were found in the 2-row barley varieties than in the 6-row varieties when compared to the 6-row standard variety, Pomo. Apex, a 2-row malting barley variety had a lower water soluble -glucan content than the 2-row feed barleys, as compared to Pomo, which may partly explain the good malting quality of Apex. Ida, a 2-row feed barley variety, had a significantly higher water soluble -glucan content than Pomo. Total -glucan content had a significant positive correlation with thousand grain weight within the trials.
90002776|We found close significant positive correlation between the photosynthesis intensity of maize, sunflower, sugar beet and the water reserve of upper 1 meter soil layer. In the extreme dry 2007 year sunflower tolerated better the unfavourable water conditions, its photosynthesis and transpiration were intensive, and the stomatal conductance was high.
90003211|
               
23781498|An artificial inoculation technique for screening of germplase/varieties of wheat has been devised where in a maximum of 100 per cent Karnel bunt incidence on grain basis has been obtained in highly susceptible varieties. For inoculations the fungus was cultured on liquid medium containing potato dextrose supplemented with 0.1 per cent yeast. Favourable conditions for disease development were provided to the inoculated plants in frequently watered muslin cloth chambers in biological incubator and in the field using perfo spray equipment.
23789303|The inheritance of plant height, tiller number per plant, spike height and 1000- kernel weight was studied using a Jinks-Hayman diallel analysis in a 8x8 wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cross population with the following bread wheat cultivars: Cumhuriyet (1), Kasifbey (2), Ziyabey (3), Marmara (4), Basribey (5), Malabadi (6), Yregir (7) and Seri-82 (8). The data analysis showed that the additive variance component (D) was significant for plant height, spike height and 1000- kernel weight at 1% level. The F parameter which is effect of dominant and recessive genes has a positive value for all four traits studied and was significant for plant height at 1% level. Dominance variance component (H1),corrected dominance variance component (H2) and dominancy level variance component (h2) were significant for all four traits studied. The Wr-Vr graphs indicated overdominance can be inferred for tiller number number per plant, spike height and 1000- kernel weight while partial dominance could be inferred for plant height.
23787083|Western European, and especially German-based multinational food processing companies tend to have "alimentary purpose" sunflower hybrids and varieties grown in Hungary. This "commercial" product is highly preferred as substitute of walnuts, or as filling in chocolate, bread, other bakery products, or baked into the top layer thereof. In early 1990s German companies rejected several truckloads of export goods due to "greening of the seed in the achene". Almost 90% of the rejected consignments originated from the sandy ridge of the region between the rivers Danube and Tisza, which is severely infected with Asclepias syriaca L. weed. Field investigations revealed unambiguously that the greening of the seed in the achene had been caused by the Spilostethus [= Lygaeus] equestris L. plant bug. This species is able to cause extensive damages and discontinuities in the so-called shoulder part of the achene with its powerful stinging-suctorial mouth organ. In the damaged area of intensive chlorophyll formation begins due to the solar effect, which is the unambiguous cause of the greening of the seed in the achene. In our investigations the industrial purpose sunflower plantations in two neighbouring areas (Bcsalms and Katymr) were studied in respect of the damage caused by the Spilostethus [= Lygaeus] equestris L.. While in Bcsalms (that district was less infected with the Asclepias syriaca L.) we found a damage of decreasing intensity (8.85 damaged achenes per sunflower disc) as advancing towards the centre of the plantation, while in the area of Katymr (this area was severely infected with Asclepias syriaca L.), this value was almost three times as high, reaching 31.71 damaged achenes per disc. Though the numbers are not very high in themselves  assuming that a well-built disc contains 1100 to 1200 seeds , but the damage may result in significant fall of quality, or even prevent exporting. Our extensive research into the causes of the greening of the sunflower seeds made it clear that the Spilostethus [= Lygaeus] equestris L. has a significant influence on the contents of the seeds it has damaged: it increases the proportion of linoleic acid (C18:2) by about 2.5 %. That affects the lasting quality of the achene unfavourably (HORVATH & BUJKI, 1991). For this reason, a comprehensive study of the biology of the Spilostethus [= Lygaeus] equestris L. became necessary for the developing possible protection methods. Such studies also represented the beginning of the investigation of any external or endogenous factors, that might obstruct the successful use of alimentary purpose sunflower hybrids or varieties in the food industry. According to GNTHER (1975), the S. equestris L. is indigenous from southern England to Siberia, and from central Sweden to the Mediterranean areas. It is less common north of Central Europe; it prefers areas with warmer climate. It likes staying both on the ground or in the flowers of various plants. It especially likes the tame poison or swallowwort (Vincetoxicum officinale MNCH., syn.: Cynanchum vincetoxicum (L.) PERS.). Data on the way of life of the S. equestris L. in Hungary is extremely scarce, despite the fact that the species is widespread in our country. Information on its nourishing plants and habits can only be found in the publications of HORVTH (1984; 1986; 1987b; 1989; 1999) and BUJKI & HORVTH (1992). HORVTH (1984) inferred the nourishing plant specialization of the species from the total nitrogen contents of various plant seeds, such as those of the Asclepias syriaca L., and the sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.). Amino-acid composition in the seeds of the A. syriaca is the most similar to that of the sunflower, soy or peanut. It may be assumed that its similarity to the sunflower seed is the cause of the fact that the S. equestris willingly sucks the ripening achenes of the sunflower, too. (HORVTH, 1984).
90003359|Experiments were carried out with wheat varieties GK Garaboly, GK Kalsz, GK Verecke, GK Petur harvested in years 2005-2006. Small plots were sown at the thalom experimental station of the Cereal Research Non-Profit Company after wheat forecrop, in a four-parallel random block design. NPK fertilizer treatments of different level were combined with Artea + Amistar Xtra fungicide treatments of various doses and spectrum. Results were evaluated for rheological characteristics using three-factor analysis of variance (cultivar x treatment x year).
23785373|During 1996, 35 samples of fresh harvested wheat from the Northern Iran (Gonbad & Gorgan regions) were collected. The mycotoxins including nivalenol, deoxynivalenol, fusarenone-x, diacetoxyscirpenol, neosolaniol, T-2 toxin, HT-2 toxin, and zearalenone were simultaneously detected. Wheat samples were extracted with aqueous methanol and purified by a 2-step chromatographic procedure using Amberlite XAD-4 and Florisil columns. Mycotoxins were detected by thin layer chromatography and quantitated by gas-liquid chromatography with flame ionization detector. The data revealed that 34, 27, and 35 out of 35 wheat samples were positive for nivalenol, neosolaniol, and zearalenone with average levels being 577.6, 476.2, and 3464.3 ppm, respectively. Deoxynivalenol, fusarenone-x, diacetoxyscirpenol, HT-2 toxin, and T-2 toxin were not detected in any of wheat samples.
90002805|We examined and evaluated the contention of Hungarian plant producing farms in the European Union using the FADN database. The experience shows that the competitiveness of Hungarian farms compared both to the EU 25 and to other countries of similar agricultural aptitude, variation is shown in competitiveness depending on farm size and farm type. At the same time, low profitability is common for even farms with relative competitiveness. Our research points out that plant producing farms possess comparative advantages due to good soil plant interrelation, but current problems are to be searched within the volume and ratio of input, a problem that roots in the Regime-change. We propose that a rational solution to these problems needs well designed structural political and developmental actions, which center element has to be based on cooperation of farmers.
23789674|The objective of research was to determine grain yield, hectoliter weight, grain proteins and starch content of 17 winter barley cultivars from trials at four locations (Tovarnik, Nova Gradiska, Pozega and Osijek) and during three years (2002 to 2005). All traits were significantly influenced by year (Y), location (L) and genotype (G) while sowing rate (300 and 450 seeds per m2) and genotype*sowing rate (G*D) did not affect trait means (P>0,05). Interactions as year* sowing rate (Y*D), location*sowing rate (L*D) and year*location*sowing rate caused significant influence to grain yield and proteins and starch content in grains. Regression coefficient "bi", ecovalence "Wi" and variance of deviations from regressions "S2di" pointed out best performance of cultivars Barun, Bingo and Gvozd in more intensive growing conditions due to its top yielding, lowest proteins and rich starch content of grains. Opposite to this, best yield and quality performance of cultivars at low input production could be expected from cultivars Plaisant, Vanessa, Favorit, Lord and Heraklo.
23789740|Sainfoin (Onobrychis viciifolia Scop.) is the only species in the genus Onobrychis. Sainfoin is a Eurasian perennial herb that has purple flowers, curved pods and is naturalized in Europe, Asia and North America grasslands on calcareous soil. Sainfoin has been grown in parts of Europe and Asia for hundreds of years. Understanding the relationships among sainfoin ecogeographic, and chemical characteristics may provide insights for better utilizing exotic germplasm. Ten sainfoin populations, were sampled and determined in Serbia and B&H. Some chemical properties, such as crude protein, ash, fat, crude fibre, phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, potassium, K/(Ca+Mg) ratio, and sulfur. Serbia is an important gene origin center for most legume species. Considering the high values of their traits, some Serbian sainfoin populations could serve as a valuable breeding material. In comparison with populations from other parts of the world, Serbian populations are superior in chemical properties and nutritional quality values.
23784202|The aims of crop modeling are to enlarge our knowledge of crop development and factors affecting yield, and to help us with practical applications. However, the mathematical complexity of most crop models is prohibitive to nonexperts who would use them. We present here a simple crop model useful for evaluating environmental variation (climate and location) in spring wheat yield. The similarities between field and modeled grain yield results were found to be encouraging. A general trend toward higher yields was shown when moving from the west to east sides of eastern Washington. The simulated standard errors for grain yields showed a corresponding increase with the means, except for Pullman, which implied a more constant climate at this location. Although field results indicated that spring wheat yields have increased over the last 30 years, measurements from five of seven yield trials demonstrated a similarly random scatter response as found for the modeled yields.
90003431|The subject of the dissertation: examination of monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous species coverage under systematic mowing. Every times when we mow the turf we cut down from the plant and it is becomes a lost assimilative surface of leaf what the plant try to compensate to grow new shoots as a result of this the needs a larger amount of nutrient supply which means stress for the roots and in totality for the whole plant.
90003194|The toxin contamination in maize occurs often. High numbers of reports deal with the problem, but only a limited number of sources deal with resistance as man of decreasing toxin contamination. 30 hybrids were tested in two years against
23790349|Thirty bread wheat cultivars grown in Lesotho were analysed with sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). High and low molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS and LMW-GS) and gliadins were used to determine genetic variability and relationships between the cultivars. The HMW-GS could not distinguish the cultivars, while both LMW-GS and gliadins could. The Glu-1 score showed that all the quality classes from excellent to poor were represented in the material, but 11 cultivars had the highest score of 10, indicating excellent quality. Cluster analysis performed using gliadins in combination with LMW-GS generated dendrograms which segregated cultivars according to genetic distance. However, the genetic distance between the cultivars were so close that it could be concluded that they are from the same gene-pool and have been used several times in regional breeding programmes.
23785264|A spontaneous thermosensitive genetic male sterile line, UPRI 95 - 140 TGMS was identified and studied for its agronomic worth and nature of fertility transformation. Plants of the line are semidwarf with erect flag leaf and good yield potential. Male fertility transformation in it occurred before May 1 in dry season (DS) and August 12 onwards in wet season (WS) under Pantnagar conditions in the northwestern India. Optimum spikelet fertility was shown more than 40% and the period of complete male sterility was 104 days. The TGMS line had strong thermosensitive reaction with male fertility. The 15 - day average thermosensitive temperature for complete sterility was 27.1 (DS) to 28.7 C (WS) and for optimum fertility it was 21.8 (DS) to 26.2 C (WS). The TGMS line has great potential for exploitation in hybrid breeding and is currently being used in combination breeding programme.
23790031|Although barley is extensively grown in the Peruvian highlands as a food crop, agronomic and quality performance are poor. In addition, there are few reports of the successful application of modern technologies, such as doubled haploidy, in developing nations. Double-haploid technique was used to obtain barley cultivars better suited to this environment. From barley crosses Ya/LM94, B16/LM94 and B12/LM94, four promising double-haploid lines were evaluated in the highland Acobamba Farming Community along with their parents and two control cultivars (PPch, UNA80). Double-haploid lines, Ya/LM94-PC27 and B12/LM94-PC34, were the most agronomically acceptable. Here we describe their potential economic benefits for Acobamba farmers. Both reached the best quality grade based on hectoliter mass, and should therefore obtain the highest market price, and provide the best incomes, gains, and profitability rates. In comparison, PPch and UNA80 if grown would be unprofitable, and LM94 would be markedly less profitable. Use of the double-haploid technique in our breeding program was estimated to cut research expenses by 26%, due to the shorter time for cultivar improvement.
23786144|The far upstream regulatory region of the -gliadin gene was isolated from a wheat genomic library and its tissue specific effect on the expression of a reporter gene driven by a constitutive promoter was studied in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.). Since in earlier studies the wheat gliadin promoter containing 300 box has been previously shown to be active specifically in the endosperm of transgenic plants, therefore a hybrid promoter construct was created from -gliadin gene promoter far upstream region spanning from 421 to 71 bp and rice actin1 promoter from 95 to +12 bp. Downstream of the hybrid promoter a -glucuronidase reporter gene (gusA) was fused. This construct was introduced into rice embryo by particle bombardment. Transgenic rice plants carrying the hybrid promoter linked to gusA were regenerated from bombarded embryos and grown up to T2 generation for further studies. RNA analysis and histochemical localization of GUS in transgenic rice plants revealed that the expression of the gene was highly specific in the endosperm, although the inserted transgene could be detected in every tissue (leaf, root and seed) investigated.
23789323|The possible role of fusariotoxin-fusaproliferin in Fusarium disease was investigated with respect to ultrastructure responses in the cells of maize leaves. The seedlings of resistant (Lucia) and susceptible (Pavla) maize cultivars were grown on two fusaproliferin concentrations (5 and 35 g/mL1). Only the higher concentration caused appearance of visible symptoms on the leaves. Structural changes of chloroplasts such as dilatation of grana thylakoids in the mesophyll chloroplasts, thylakoid disorganization, and an increased number of osmiophilic globules (plastoglobuli) in the stroma were observed in mesophyll and bundle sheath chloroplasts of both cultivars. The higher toxin concentration sporadically induced severe damage to the outer chloroplast membrane. The extent of ultrastructure disturbances depended on toxin concentration and it was greater in the susceptible cultivar Pavla. Fusaproliferin may be involved in Fusarium pathogenesis as a virulence factor or, by enhancing activity of some other toxins that might be concomitantly present in the diseased plants.
23788194|A field experiment was conducted in China during winter season of 2001-2002 to study the response of time of nitrogen application on two cultivars (Xiumei 3 and 92-11) of barley. Apart from basal dose of 40 kg N/ha, 110 kg N/ha was applied at tillering (T1) or in two equal splits at tillering and boot stages (T2) or at boot stage (T3). Cultivar 92-11 attained significantly lower plant height at boot stage and number of spikes/plant but took significantly more number of days to heading, registered significantly more chlorophyll content in leaves at different growth stages, produced significantly more number of grains/spike, grain weight/spike, single grain weight, N concentration at boot stage and consequently produced significantly higher grain yield (3764 kg/ha) than cultivar Xiumei 3 (3201 kg/ha). Application of nitrogen at boot stage significantly reduced the plant height at both stages, dry matter accumulations, days taken to heading, leaf chlorophyll content at boot stage, grains per spike, grain weight per spike and individual grain weight but recorded significantly higher chlorophyll content in leaves at heading stage and higher N content as compared to its application at tillering. Split application of nitrogen at tillering and boot stages also recorded significantly better growth and yield attributes, N concentration and grain yield than its application at boot stage alone but was at par with nitrogen applied at tillering except grain weight per spike. Consequently application of nitrogen at tillering or its split application at tillering and boot stages produced statistically similar (4052 and 3816 kg/ha, respectively) but significantly higher grain yield than its application at boot stage (2500 kg/ha).
23789710|These investigations proved that aromatic plants from Croatia like lavander, laurel, rosemary and thymus, had insecticidal activity against Sitophilus granarius L on stored wheat.
23781437|Five spring wheat cultivars and four spring rye inbreds (Sg) with contrasting levels of trypsin inhibitor activity (TIA) were crossed in two complete intraspecific diallels. Analysis of the 55 wheat diallel revealed that TIA was controlled by both additive and dominance genetic effects; incomplete, bidirectional dominance was detected for TIA. Analysis of the 44 rye diallel revealed that TIA was controlled mainly by additive genetic and reciprocal effects. Selection for low TIA in wheat and rye should be effective in segregating lines since the narrow sense heritability of this trait was quite high in both species. The partial correlation coefficients among 100 seed weight, total and soluble protein contents, and TIA showed that 100 seed weight was positively related to TIA in wheat and rye. Total and soluble protein contents showed no relationship with TIA within the range of genetic variation studied.
23778598|Six basic generations, P1, P2, F1, F2, B1 and B2, of throe bread wheat crosses involving tall and semi-dwarf parents were studied to investigate the genetical control of coleoptile length and width. From the analyses of means and variances evidence is provided that considerable fixable genetical variation can be generated for these traits by crossing genotypes within tall or semi-dwarf groups rather than attempting crosses between groups. A simple additivedominance model, on means, generally failed probably due to maternal effects but because of absence of reciprocal crosses it was not possible to distinguish between failure due to these and non-allelic interactions. It is therefore emphasised that for studies involving juvenile traits inclusion of reciprocal cross families will be greatly useful
23782840|H.geniculatum All x T.aestivum L hybrids were obtained by a methods based on embryo culture. These hybrids showed partial female fertility (0.28% of pollinated florets). Callus tissue was induced from a single young inflorescence on B-5 medium with 3 mg/1 2.4-D. More than 300 plants were regenerated on B-5 medium with 0.5 mg/l kinetin and 0.5 mg/l 2.4-D supplements for a year. These plants were divided into phenotypic classes showing partial female fertility ranging from 0-16.67%. A part of the regenerants was treated with 0.5% colchicine solution containing 4% DMSO. As a result,partially self-fertile plants were produced. An BC1 (H. geneculatum All x T.aestivum L) x T.aestivum L plant was studied. Well filled grain was obtained after selfing and pollinating it with wheat pollen.
90002659|The objective of research was to determine influence to grain yield, the quality of organic wheat
23784234|Electrophoretically separated isozymes and seed storage proteins were proposed as convenient markers for express identification of wheat chromosomes in tetraploid triticale forms. The 4x triticales contained a whole rye genome and a wheat complement which consists of chromosome pairs belonging to the A and B genomes. The following enzymes and proteins were suggested as chromosome markers for the seven homoeologous group of wheat: 1A, 1B - seed MDH-2, leaf acidic peroxidase; 2A, 2B - leaf basic peroxidase; 3A, 3B - seed Est-1; 4A, 4B - seed ADH-1; 5A, 5B - seed ShDH; 6A, 6B - leaf Est-4,  gliadins; 7A, 7B - leaf Est-3. On that ground it was supposed that the investigated tetraploid triticales contain the following wheat chromosomes: 1BL, 1BS, 3AS, 4AS, 5AS, 6AL, 6AS and 7BS.
23790035|Water is a distinguished stress factor of soils and ecosystems. The description and analysis of positive or negative soilwater stresses are the preconditions of the efficient control of their mechanisms, reversible and/or irreversible consequences. The most significant soilwater stress is extreme moisture regime: water surplus (flood, water-logging, over-moistening) or water deficiency (drought). Their main reasons are the irregular atmospheric precipitation; limited water infiltration into and storage within the soil; high evaporation, surface runoff and filtration losses. In addition to the direct impacts the consequences are the changes in the mass and energy regime of soils and in their biogeochemical cycles. The possibilities of the control of soilwater stress are: help infiltration, storage and availability of soil water; improve the plants' water uptake; irrigation and drainage.
23792284|In this study the content of total polyphenolics, rutin, and antioxidant activity in different anatomical parts of common buckwheat plants (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench.) of six cultivars (Spacinska, Emka, Kasho, Jana C1 and Hrusowska) was analyzed. Antioxidant activity in plant material was determined by free radical DPPH. Highest antioxidant activity was assessed in leaves, whereas stems had the lowest antioxidant activity. Total polyphenol content was assessed spectrophotometrically by the Folin-Ciocalteu assay. The highest concentrations were detected in leaves, with values ranging from 68.74 to 90.27 g gallic acid equivalents kg -1 , while the lowest concentrations were measured in stems (2.883.12g.kg -1 ). Significant differences between the anatomical parts were confirmed also for rutin content with the exception of cultivars Kasho and Jana C1, where the rutin content in stem and seeds was not statistically different. The highest concentration of rutin (37.90 g.kg -1 ) was determined in leaves of cultivar Pyra.
23781318|Salinity appears to affect rate of germination more than total germination, and salt concentration appears to be of greater importance than type of salt. These facts suggest that a major effect of salt may be osmotic. In a pilot study, barley (Hordeum vulgare) kernels gained weight more rapidly in distilled water than in a NaCl solution. In a more detailed study, kernels of a salt tolerant cultivar gained weight more rapidly in a NaCl solution than those of a non-tolerant cultivar. This suggests that differences in rate of weight gain which reflect rate of imbibition may be useful in screening for salt tolerance.
90002688|Nitrogen fertilization (0, 80, 120 and 150 kg N ha
23783108|This study was done to determine the inheritance of maize seed quality characteristics by the generation mean analysis method. These seed characters were measured from germination test, electrical conductivity test, accelerated ageing test, complex stressing vigour test and cold test. Parental, F1, F2, P1, F1 and P2F1 generations from two pairs of maize inDred lines were included in each test. Heterosis occurred for all characters in both crosses. Heritability estimates were high and varied widely depending upon the method of calculation. A selection procedure based on additive genetic effects should be effective in improving such those studied characters.
23788182|The effect of substrate water potential (w) in root growth and proline content of maize seedlings of Tuxpeo Sequa C0 (TSC0) and Tuxpeo Sequa C8 (TSC8), sensitive and resistant to drought respectively, were evaluated. Seventy two hours old seedlings, with 5 cm root length, were maintained for 24 h in vermiculite at w between -0.03 and -2.35 MPa. Root length, fresh and dry weight, number of lateral roots and proline content were evaluated. Root enlargement of TSC0 was significantly higher than TSC8 at -0.03 MPa, but the response was opposite at low substrate w. The number of lateral roots was reduced in 23% in TSC8 at the lowest substrate w (-2.35 MPa) but it was not significantly affected in TSC0. A higher proline content was quantified in the cell division root region than in differentiation root region in both maize populations (5.64 and 6.96 mol 100 mg-1 of dry weight in TSC0 and TSC8, respectively); and w between -0.65 and -2.35 MPa induced a drastic and significant increase of proline content in both populations. The statistical interaction between maize population, substrate w, and root region was highly significant (P0.0039) for proline content. The results demonstrated that eight cycles of recurrent selection of Tuxpeo for drought tolerance induced a reduction of the number of secondary roots and proline content in the differentiation root region, but a proline increase in the cell division region when root seedling grow under no restrictive water conditions (w=-0.03 MPa), beside recurrent selection modified root reaction to low substrate w by accumulation of dry matter and proline.
23785248|Tolerance to low temperature is one of the most important component of winter hardiness in winter wheat. In the process of creation new winter wheat varieties resistant to low temperatures it is important to know the genetics of this character. Seven wheat varieties Noa, Amigo, Sava, Rana Niska, Saitama, UPI 301, NS-5260 and their F1, F2, BC1, and BC2 generations were used to determine the genetic base of low temperature resistance. The mode of inheritance observed in most of the F1 hybrids was partial dominance, although some cases where the parent with the higher or lower mean value dominated were also recorded. In the F2 generation, intermediacy was also the predominant mode of inheritance. In Noa x Sava and Noa x Rana Niska both additive and dominant gene effects were found. Frost tolerance was under control of additive genes in cross Noa x Amigo, Saitama x Sava and NS-5260 x UPI 301 and dominant genes in Saitama x Rana Niska. In the process of winter wheat breeding the most importance have combinations in which additive gene effects predominate, since those crosses have greater chance to fix the favorable genes responsible for cold tolerance. The selection of progeny tolerant to low temperatures from those combinations should be more successfully.
23786848|There was highly significant correlation between the level of heavily infected seed, as determined after harvest on seed samples in a Freezing Blotter Test, and the deoxynivalenol content in 20 winter wheat, 7 spring wheat, 13 barley and 14 oat cultivars inoculated with Fusarium culmorum at flowering. Head blight recorded in the field four weeks after inoculation did not correlate with the deoxynivalenol content.
23783052|An attempt to induce mutations for resistance of culture IL011 (race 77 Biotype A) a highly virulent and most prevalent leaf rust race in India was made in three widely cultivated but leaf rust susceptible wheat cultivars and two near isogenic lines for Lr1 and Lr10 using three mutagenic treatments, viz. 0.6% EMS, 2 mM Sodiumazide and 40 kr gamma rays. Seven resistant mutants were obtained. EMS treatment was found to be the most effective mutagen and Kalyansona was found to be the most susceptible to mutagenesis.
23786063|The concentration and composition of storage proteins in Lithuanian-grown wheat cultivars were investigated. The protein concentration did not explain the differences in bread-making quality between the cultivars. Zentos and Sirvinta were considered as good bread-making quality wheats according to the Lithuanian millers and bakers. These cultivars showed the highest Glu-1 quality scores, contained high-molecular-weight (HMW) glutenin subunits and D-zone omega gliadins correlated with high gluten strength as well as a high percentage of large unextractable polymeric proteins in total large polymeric proteins. The cultivars Jubilatka and Marabu were found to carry an 1BL/1RS rye translocation. This gave the lowest rye adjusted Glu-1 quality scores, and also the lowest percentage of large unextractable polymeric proteins in the total large polymeric protein. The strong cultivars in this study, could be interesting as breeding material in the other Nordic and Baltic countries. Also, the D-zone omega gliadin d7, found to be relatively common in the Lithuanian wheats but uncommon worldwide, could be of interest to introduce in wheat cultivars in other Nordic countries. This gliadin is correlated with high gluten strength.
23786165|Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] transformation using microprojectile bombardment was achieved in 1993. Since then there have been very few additional reports on the topic. To develop a reliable method for foreign gene introduction, a promoter sequence capable of expression in the recipient cells is a critical requirement. Transient expression of the dual 35S cauliflower mosaic virus, rice actin-1, maize alcohol dehydrogenase-1, and maize ubiquitin-1 promoters driving the GUS (-glucuronidase) gene in sorghum were compared. Transient glucuronidase activity in embryonic tissue was very low. It was concluded that there would be a significant benefit in investigating and isolating new constitutive promoter sequences potentially resulting in a higher level of transient expression in sorghum.
23782978|A new method involving chemical reactivity - biological activity relationships was used in the development of a new class of herbicide antidotes. Laboratory and field test data are presented to illustrate the effectiveness of several new active ingredients against thiocarbamate and chloroacetamide herbicide injury to crop plants, and compared with those for some marketed antidotes.
90002817|Field experiment with increased rates of carbocalk (39% CaO: t ha
23788058|Chromosome pairing was studied at metaphase I in PMCs by C-banding in diploid rye plants with 13 monosomic-substitution wheat chromosomes and 1 monosomic-addition wheat chromosome. In plants with chromosome 5A, no univalents were found. In other plants with 1 monosomic-substitution wheat chromosome (7A, 2A, or 1A), only rye univalents occurred, on average 0.020.18 per PMC. Wheat chromosomes paired with homoeologous rye chromosomes in bivalents. The addition chromosome 6A occurred as a univalent with a frequency of 0.92 per PMC. In plants with 23 monosomic-substitution wheat chromosomes, no univalents were found. In 2 diploid rye plants with substitution chromosomes 2A, 5A and in 1 plant with 2A, 7A, wheat chromosomes paired mainly with rye homoeologues, but sometimes they paired with each other, forming heteromorphic wheat bivalent. In the other 3 plants with wheat chromosomes 2A, 5A, 2 plants with 2A, 7A, and 4 plants with 5A, 7A, a reverse situation was observed: nonhomoeologous wheat chromosomes paired with one another (forming a heteromorphic bivalent) more frequently than with rye homoeologues. In plants with 3 substitution wheat chromosomes (2A, 5A, 7A), 2 of them paired with each other, forming first of all a heteromorphic ring bivalent, while the third wheat chromosome paired with a rye chromosome in a ring bivalent or rarely in a rod bivalent. Wheat chromosomes sporadically occurred in multivalents. The presented data show that the rye genome promotes both homoeologous pairing of wheat and rye chromosomes and nonhomoeologous pairing of wheat chromosomes.
23788193|The aim of this research was to examine influence of sowing rate on grain yield of four new winter wheat cultivars, taking in account their genetic characters. Statistical analysis of the obtained results showed that the sowing rate influence on the grain yield was not statistically significant. On the other hand, various sowing rates had highly significant influence on the ear number per a unit area. The largest number of ears was achieved by the sowing rate of 700 germinable seeds/m2 (794.8 ears/m2). Difference in grain yield between examined cultivars was highly significant (P<0.01) while the difference in number of ears per a unit area was significant (P<0.05). The highest average yield and highest number of ears in the two-year period were achieved by the cultivar AG 5.12 (8.56 t/ha and 770 ears/m2). Since a satisfactory and statistically significant grain yield was achieved, even with a lower sowing rate, both during and in the average of the two year research, the author's advice wheat producers to apply the above mentioned. In this way total production costs would be decreased to a lower rate.
90003414|Drought tolerance is a complex phenotypic trait that involves multiple physiological mechanisms that result of the expression of several protective genes and QTLs. We tried to compare reactions of five different barley genotypes exposed to drought stress with values of some physiological and molecular biological parameters that could describe different strategies of these genotypes for overcoming drought stress. Samples for evaluation of C
90002666|The more important soil factors appear to be pH, drainage, and fertility. All turf grasses respond extra fertility. Actually, none of the turf grasses can be grown well without plenty of plant food. We were examining the effects of the traditional and the controlled released Scotts fertilizers with regards to the quality, colour, density, species composition and the change of plant coverage of the sports grass of the FTC football field. The applied fertilizers for nutrient supply of the soil were the traditional NH
90002829|The network of National Long-term Fertilization Trials, established in 1967 and maintained at 9 experimental sites representing different agro-ecological regions of Hungary, were aimed to study the yield increasing effect of mineral fertilizers and to detect the indications of degradation of soil fertility that is the unfavourable environmental effects of fertilization on the soil. In the present study the plant-available ammonium-lactate (AL)-soluble phosphorus amounts not removed by the test plants winter wheat (w. wheat) and maize and accumulated in the soil as a long-term effect of 32 years' NPK fertilization were investigated in some selected treatments of the trials. The soil acidity had the highest effect on the phosphorus accumulation at the different experimental sites of the network. In calcareous soils the accumulation was much more considerable than in the strongly acid experimental soils. The weather in Hungary showing an inclination towards drought has an unfavorable influence on the P utilization of plants, therefore a P fertilizer dose as much as 100-120 kg P
90002835|This paper presents the results of the chemical composition and nutritive value of five temperate grasses during primary growth in 2004. Pure stands of established grass species/cultivars were sampled 5 times with 3 replicates. Both species and sampling dates had significant influences on forage quality. More leafy grasses, Hungarian brome grass (HBG), reed canary-grass (RCG) and timothy (TY) had higher crude protein contents than perennial ryegrass (PRG) and tall fescue (TF). As regards net energy contents of forage, a rank of TF, RCG, HBG, PRG and TY, with increasing energy content was found. Later sampling dates tended to have lower quality forage. Practical considerations from the results: the importance of early bite in grazing systems, PRG and TY deserve most attention in high quality forage systems.
90003159|This paper summarizes the impact of
23786898|Small-scale field experiments were carried out to determine the effect of increasing relative humidity on the development of the five major species of Fusarium known to cause ear blight in the UK. Visual and cultural monitoring indicated that the degree of ear infection by all five inoculated species was related to humidity, with evidence of differing optima. Yield and mycotoxin content of grain were significantly affected by infection with different Fusarium species and by increasing humidity.
23783781|During 6 days of water stress and after following rewatering photosynthetic and transpiration rates were measured in air containing 1 and 10 g H2O m3 for 3 wheat and 3 rye cultivars. From 4th to 6th day of stress both photosynthetic and transpiration rates substantially decreased in air containing both 1 and 10 g H2O m3. In the last day of the experiment all rye cultivars and cv. Grana had positive net photosynthetic rate independently of air humidity, while cvs. Liwilla and Mironowska 808 had higher respiration than photosynthetic rate. Generally photosynthetic rate in the air containing 10 g H2O m3 was the same from 1st to 3rd day of water stress and higher from 4th to 6th of water stress than in the air containing 1 g H2O m3. After rewatering partial recovery of photosynthetic rate was observed during several minutes. Transpiration rate was also decreasing from 4th to 6th day of water stress and its rapid increase was observed after rewatering.
23781320|Internal morphological characters of winter wheat were weakly correlated with yield. The number of vascular bundles in the flag leaf and the number of xylem vessels per leaf appeared however to be more closely related to yield than leaf area, width or specific leaf weight (the latter in two out of three experiments). Using factor analysis, the pattern of interrelationships between internal morphological characters were resolved into three main groups associated with leaf thickness, leaf size and phloem size.
90003390|Weed surveys were conducted on farms being under conversion to ecological farming system between 2005-2007. The aim was to detect the most harmful weeds, as important biotic, environmental stress factor, on the farms in the canopies of winter cereals, spring barley, maize for grain and silage and pea for grain in all production region of the Slovak Republic. The actual weed infestation was evaluated by standard methods common used by EWRS a numerous method per square. In the winter cereals 19 weed species were determined, the most problematic were: annual winter weeds (
90002753|The goal of our research was to study the long-term effect of different crop rotations and continuous maize cropping as well as different rates of fertilizers on the vertical distribution of uptakeable phosphorus and potassium content of soil. Our results shows that these parameters were influenced mainly by fertilization had an effect on the humus, nitrate, uptakeable phosphorus and potassium content of soil.. the systems of cropping on arable lands as well as its interactions with plant nutrition practices. The crop composition of crop rotations inluenced mainly the humus, nitrate, lime content and pH values of soil, while
90003355|Two-year investigations (2006 and 2007) were conducted within the three-year maize-soybean-wheat crop rotation with the aim to assess the influence of two cropping systems, conditionally marked as high-input and reduced-input systems, and of plant density on soybean seed yield and yield components of two new genotypes. Cropping system intensity had a positive effect in both years on soybean seed yield, seed number and seed weight per plant. In 2007, cropping system intensity had a positive effect also on number of pods per plant. Plant density had no influence on soybean seed yield. The highest pod and seed number and seed weight per plant were achieved at 35 plants m
90003500|the fattening test is one of main elements of Own Performance Test (OPT) in meat sheep breeding system. After weaning, the new situation of intensive fattening technology should be a cause of biotic stress for lambs. Metabolic rate and growth of animals could be influenced by the longer-term stress. This study deals with evaluation of stress hormone concentration of Tsigai lambs (n=20) under OPT (41 days). Blood samples were taken at on-test and off-test days, and level of cortisol, non-esterised fatty acid and triglyceride was determined. Lambs temperament was evaluated by the temperament score test: behaviour of animals was assessed in a 5-score system (1: calm, 5: nervous). The lambs were classified into four categories according to quartiles and median of cortisol data at off-test. Five lambs got into every category. It was found positive intermediate correlation between the cortisol level at off-test and temperament scores (r
23790036|The aim of present investigations was the increasing of knowledge of the cotton bollworm's (Helicoverpa armigera Hbn.) (CB) damages in the different breeding season corns. The damage examinations were made in a 29.2 hectares acreage between Igal and Kazsok villages (Somogy county) on the basis of the flight observation at the end of August 2008. We examined the measure of damages and yield losses based on the collected ears belonging to different breeding season corns (FAO 200-299, FAO 300-399, FAO 400-499, FAO 500-599). The relationship between the breeding season and the damages was examined by variance analysis (one-way anova). The collected samples were examined in analytic laboratory in order to calculate the quantitative alteration of the fundamental in-kernel air dry content values (raw protein, raw fat, starch). Our results proved the significant increasing of damage percentages (FAO 200-299: 8.66%; FAO 500-599: 15.33%), surface damages (cm 2 )(P = 0.026) and the calculated weight loss of damaged ears (P=0.014) parallel with the increasing of the breeding season length. We confirmed the "forced maturing" in the case of the earlier hybrids in the consequence of the damage. We recorded a decreasing percentage (correlate to the draw matter) of the starch and the raw fat (average decreasing: starch: 1.72; raw fat: 0.26) as well as the increasing starch loss per one hectare, agreeing with the breeding season length increase (starch loss/one hectare: FAO 200-299: 1.54%; FAO 500-599: 2.72%). We observed the quantitative increasing of the raw protein as a function of CB's damage too, which can be explained by a physiological response to the biotic stress.
23781388|From crossing Hordeum bulbosum (BBBB) x H. vulgare (VVVV) a hybrid plant (BBVV) was obtained which was relatively stable with regard to its chromosomes and yielded in its progenies both alloplasmio barley plants and hybrid plants. The hybrid proportion was high in the advanced generations. Backcrosses of BBVV plants with cultivated barley (VV) resulted in triploid hybrid plants (VVB), normal barley plants and barley plants with bulbosum characters. The results show that it is possible to extend the genetic variability of cultivated barley by crossing it with H. bulbosum.
90003315|Field experiments were conducted over 3 years to assess the effects of fungicides (F) containing strobilurins (alone and in mixture with morpholine, triazoles) and triazoles (epoxiconazole or propiconazole) on winter wheat Zentos grain quality, incidence of Fusarium head blight (FHB) in the field, grain contamination with fungi and mycotoxins. The effect of strobilurins and triazoles on the parameters tested was more dependent on the weather conditions of the growing season than on the F applied. The incidence of FHB was low in 2002 and 2003, but high in 2004. Averaged data suggest that strobilurin treatments decreased the level of FHB. In 2002, grain contamination with fungi was lower than in 2003 and 2004. The data on the impact of fungicides on post-harvest grain infection with Fusarium spp. and contamination with mycotoxins deoxynivalenol (DON), zearalenone (ZEN) and T-2 were controversial. The fungicides only insignificantly affected protein and gluten concentration in grain, as well as sedimentation and falling number. All grain quality components were especially dependent on the year (significant at P<0.01). However, fungicide application significantly, at P<0.01, increased grain protein and gluten yields: they were higher for the strobilurin-treated plots (with a small exception) than for the untreated and those treated with propiconazole.
23782906|Protein content in wheat grain was tested in the F1 and F2 generations of eight wheat (Triticurm aestivum L.) parent diallel cross. The parents used in this investigation varied widely in protein percent. The reciprocal differences were not evident for the expression of protein content. The genetic system governing the protein content was largely additive and dominance was present as partial dominance in both F1 and F2 generations. The F1 hybrid means revealed no true heterosis towards high protein content. Heritability estimates indicated that effective selection could be applied to produce high protein lines in segregates including Sappo genotype.
23788882|A comprehensive, countrywide ground water quality monitoring is just under development in Hungary; data that can be used for the characterization of the chemical status of ground water bodies are obtained at present from different monitoring systems and surveys. This study shows a method of developing current groundwater monitoring network which corresponds to the expectations of the Water Framework Directive.
90002745|Stress tolerance of four winter wheat genotypes in undisturbed soil columns were studied in two subsequent experiments. TDR soil moisture probes were used to monitor changes in soil water content. In order to study the drought stress reaction of the wheat plants, microsensors were implanted into the stems of the plants and connected to a quadrupole mass spectrometer for gas analysis. The stress status was indicated in the plants grown on partly non-irrigated soil columns by the lower CO
23781367|Large leaf area is considered to be conducive to high grain yields in cereals; thus, leaf area determinations are made by many researchers. This study was conducted to determine the best sampling technique to be used in assaying leaf area in oats at (1) a single period during the growing season and (2) throughout the entire growing season. The optimal time for detecting leaf area differences for the first five leaves on the plant was 45 days after planting. The sixth leaf was most efficiently measured 81 days from planting, whereas differences in leaf leaf area were most easily detected 76 days after planting. Detection of a 10% difference in leaf area for all leaves on the plant requires 6 samples with 7 replications. Detection of a 5% difference in leaf area throughout the season is not practical because excessively large samples are required. Differences of 10% can be detected throughout the season but require a sample size of 41 with 7 replications.
23792281|The genetic variations of high and low molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS and LMW-GS) as well as of - and -gliadins in 562 accessions of 7 tetraploid Triticum turgidum L. subspecies were investigated using sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). A total of 26 HMW-GS alleles (7 at Glu-A1 and 19 at Glu-B1 loci) with 63 allelic combinations, as well as 11 LMW-GS alleles (5 at Glu-A3, 4 at Glu-B3 and 2 at Glu-B2 loci) with 26 allelic combinations, were detected. Two novel HMW-GS, called B1cf and B1cg, were discovered in T. dicoccum, B1cg was also found in T. turanicum. The Glu-B1 locus showed the highest values of genetic diversity index (H), with a mean of 0.72. As regards gliadins, 8 alleles at Gli-B1 locus have been found. The dendrogram based on allelic frequencies, revealed that T. durum, T. carthlicum and T. polonicum grouped a part from the other subspecies. This behaviour suggested probably different evolutive pathways among the tetraploid wheats.
23786963|Two spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genotypes, Bob White and Fielder, and one winter genotype, NE92458, previously identified as being highly embryogenic, were examined for susceptibility to Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Cultured immature embryos of these genotypes were inoculated and co-cultivated with a disarmed A. tumefaciens strain C58C1 carrying a binary vector pPTN115 coding for the -glucuronidase gene (GUS), and a selectable marker, the neomycin phosphotransferase II gene (NPT II). Explant genotype influenced transformation success. We found Bob White and Fielder were susceptible to A. tumefaciens infection whereas NE92458 appeared to be resistant. The transformation efficiencies of two spring wheat genotypes, Bob White and Fielder, were 1.0 (2/200) and 0.8 % (2/250), respectively. Stable integration, expression and inheritance of transgenes were demonstrated by molecular and genetic analysis of transformants. Both marker genes, gus and nptII, were expressed and co-segregated in the T1 progeny plants. Three out of four cases, the genes showed Mendelian segregation predicted for transgene insertion at a single locus.
23785380|Contamination of corn with Fusarium toxins is a very detrimental problem for the animal feed industry in Central Europe. The purpose of our studies was to investigate the contamination of corn samples taken directly from farms of the eastern part of Austria, the main area of Austrian pig production. 85 samples of corn, harvested in September and October 1996, were analysed for contamination with B-trichothecenes and zearalenone. Sample clean-up was carried out with multifunctional columns (Mycosep), analysis was performed by GC-ECD in the case of trichothecenes and with reversed-phase liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection for zearalenone. Only four samples showed no detectable contamination, maximum levels detected were 2435g/kg for DON and 751g/kg for ZON, respectively.
23781408|Correlation coefficients between meiotic instability and pollen/floret fertility were worked out in F3 generations of five hexaploid triticale  hexaploid wheat crosses. Pollen fertility and floret fertility both were found independent of meiotic instability and of each other. For the improvement of secondary triticales, selection for higher floret fertility was suggested.
23783642|Many wheat, triticale and rye lines have been screened for Russian wheat aphid resistance in greenhouse tests. 'Imperial' rye and 'Chinese Spring' (CS) wheat were found resistant and susceptible, respectively. For this study, Chinese Spring / Imperial disomic and ditelosomic addition lines along with Chinese Spring / Imperial amphiploid, Imperial rye, and Chinese Spring wheat lines were evaluated to determine the rye chromosome and chromosome arm carrying RWA resistance gene(s). The addition of individual Imperial rye chromosomes 1R, 3R, 4R, and 7R significantly enhanced the RWA resistance of the Chinese Spring recipient parent. The ditelosomic addition lines CS + 1RL and CS + 3RS were significantly less damaged than CS, confirming the presence of RWA resistance genes on chromosomes 1R and 3R. We conclude that the RWA resistance of Imperial rye is controlled by more than one gene located on different chromosomes.
23781417|The tertiary seed development of four spring oat varieties was studied in the years between 1979-82. Data from this study enable us better to know the yield structure of domestic varieties and of variety candidates and to form the ideal panicle type. Essential differences have been found in mass-percent, 1000-grain-weight and lemma percent of primary, secondary and tertiary seed and the similar characteristics of the seed fractions remaining in and falling through a sieve with a 1.8 mm mesh. The development of tertiary seed seems to damage the quantitative characteristics of primary and secondary seed and it is especially unfavourable regarding seed production practice. This fact, too, must be considered when selecting for yield increase.
23786102|Recurrent selection based on dominant male sterility has proved feasible in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) breeding. Combining Ms3 with the technique of hydroponic tiller culture, little effort and space are needed to randomly intercross large numbers of selected male and female plants. Consequently, recurrent selection can readily be integrated with, and supplement, an ongoing breeding programme, such as pedigree. However, as is suggested here, it is also possible to base a breeding programme solely on recurrent selection. If mass selection is employed in the field evaluation of the male component, large populations can be evaluated very efficiently with relatively modest inputs. Such a strategy may prove especially useful to programmes with limited resources.
90003401|Keszthely is a famous Hungarian town for the potato improvement which has been starting within the frames of the Universitys Potato Research Centre for 30 years. Arthropod species as potato pests can cause severe damages. Chemical treatments are inevitable in protection of potato plants but insecticides have an effect of useful species too. We have been studying the arthropod fauna of potato fields of the centre in three consecutive years (2006-2008) with the aim of revealing the effect of insecticide treatments on the harmful and useful species. Standard sweep netting was used for collecting insects from the foliage of potato plants. Collections were made one day before then 24 and 96 hours after insecticide treatments. Collected material was preserved, separated and identified. There was a considerable difference in the numbers of species among the three investigated years. It was established that different types of insecticide treatments effect quite differently on the number of harmful and useful arthropods.
90003459|Changes of the activity of antioxidative enzymes (ascorbate peroxidase-APX; guaiacol peroxidase-POX) and organic acid-OA (oxaloacetate-Ox, citrate-Cit, malate-Mal, succinate-Suc and fumarate-Fum) content were investigated in barley leaves during a week of 0, 300 M nickel-Ni treatment in order to clarify the processes occurring during the early phase of Ni exposure as an abiotic stress agent.
23785360|Some phenotypic and genotypic features of two toxigenic species representing the Petromyces genus, P. alliaceus and P. albertensis were examined. The conidial diameters of the strains were specific for the species examined. The isoenzyme patterns, carbon source utilization spectra, mitochondrial DNA and SmaI generated repetitive DNA profiles of the two species were almost identical. RAPD analysis revealed some species-specific amplified products, which made it possible to distinguish the two Petromyces species. However, the low level of variability observed indicates that these taxa belong to the same species.
90003374|Both lack and surplus of nutrients can cause stress for crops and have unfavourable effects on chemical features of soils as well. Effects of NPK fertilisation of different dose on chemical features of a chernozem soil and on yield of winter wheat were tested in the framework of the 40-year-old National Uniformed Long-term Fertilisation Experiments (NULTFE) at Karcag in 2007. Results proved that regular application of too small and too big fertilizer doses have unfavourable effects on some chemical properties (the readily available nutrient contents, the soil acidity, the amounts and the rate of exchangeable cations) of the tested soil and the yield of winter wheat. We tested the CO
23785369|RFLPs in Mitochondrial (mt) DNAs were analyzed using 21 strains from seven Fusarium species that cause fusarium head blight in wheat, including F. graminearum, F. culmorum, F. avenaceum, F. acuminatum, F. sporotrichioides, F. nivale, and F. tricinctum. MtDNA was purified by CsCl ultracentrifugation in the presence of bisbenzimide. Molecular sizes of mtDNAs were determined after digestion with restriction enzymes. A large interspecific variation was observed in mtDNA size: the largest one was 116 Kb in strain ARC-2125-1 of F. culmorum, while the smallest one was 49 kb in strain SUF-1121 of F. avenaceum. A considerable intraspecific size variation was also detected. All the species were identified by their mtDNA restriction patterns and assigned to individual clusters by UPGMA analysis, except for one strain of F. sporotrichioides. A PstI clone library was constructed from strain KU-1615 of F. graminearum that is highly pathogenic and produces a large amount of nivalenol. Using this library, physical maps of F. graminearum and F. culmorum were constructed. The mtDNA library and physical maps would facilitate species identification and further study of mtDNA polymorphisms in Fusarium species.
23792369|Stripe rust, caused by Puccinia striiformis Westend. f. sp. tritici Eriks., is a major disease that causes substantial losses to wheat production worldwide. The utilization of effective resistance genes in wheat cultivars is the preferred control of the disease. To study the inheritance of all-stage resistance in spring wheat cultivars Louise, WA008016, Express, Solano, Alturas and Zak from the Pacific Northwest (PNW) of the United States, the six cultivars were crossed with the Chinese susceptible variety Taichung 29. Single-spore isolates of CYR32 and CYR33, the predominant Chinese races of P. striiformis f. sp. tritici, were used to evaluate F 1 , F 2 and BC 1 generations for stripe rust resistance under controlled greenhouse conditions. Genetic analysis determined that Louise had one dominant resistance gene to CYR32, temporarily designated as YrLou. WA008016 had two dominant and one recessive resistance genes to CYR32, temporarily designated as YrWA1, YrWA2 and YrWA3, respectively. Express had a single recessive gene that conferred resistance to CYR32, temporarily designated as YrExp3. The two independent dominant genes in Solano conferring resistance to CYR32 were temporarily designated as YrSol1 and YrSol2. Alturas had two recessive genes for resistance to CYR32, temporarily designated as YrAlt1 and YrAlt2. Zak has one dominant gene for resistance to CYR33, temporarily designated as YrZak1. These six cultivars can be important resistance sources in Chinese wheat stripe rust resistance breeding.
23786285|Ten accessions of emmer (T.dicoccon Schrank) and ten of spelt (T.spelta L.) have been analysed, using electrophoresis, for their HMW glutenin subunits and -gliadin fraction. Emmer has been discovered to be more polymorphic than spelt. The highest variation has been associated to HMW glutenins. New alleles, provisionally assigned to Glu-A1 and Glu-B1 loci have been detected in some accessions of emmer. The whole meals of tested accessions were also analysed for protein content and SDS-sedimentation test. Relationships between the SDS-test value, the quality index and the electrophoretic pattern are also discussed.
23782739|A Relative Dissimilarly Index RDI was used to estimate the diversity of secalins (rye prolamins) observed by electrophoresis on acrylalamide gel. The comparisons between 7 ryes populations (6 European, 1 Russian) were carried out by calculating the distances intra and inter populations. A local Central Massif population showed the largest intra diversity. The Russian population showed the largest inter diversity with all the other populations.
23788196|The wet gluten content, gluten spreading, baking value, technological water-absorbing ability and falling number of 4 wheat varieties were studied in 1 year with an average rainfall (2001) and 2 dry years (2002 and 2003). The canopies of the wheat varieties were treated with different herbicides (Granstar, Duplosan DP, Lintur, Mecaphar and Mustang). The effects of variety and crop year and the variety x crop year interaction were significant on all the studied characters. The variety x herbicide x crop year interaction was significant too, with the exception of the technological water-absorbing ability. The 5 herbicide treatments did not give rise to any significant difference in the bread-making quality of the 4 tested wheat varieties in any of the 3 years. The variety x herbicide and herbicide x crop year interactions either were not significant. The characters of the bread-making quality of the varieties differed considerably with the crop year and the herbicide Withing the bread-making quality of one variety significant differences were observed only in some cases as a function of the crop year or the herbicide treatment.
23790049|Heat stress is an important production constraint of wheat during grain-fill period in India and in other parts of the world where the temperature become high during anthesis to maturity (grain-filling) stage of plant growth. This study determined the genetic control of heat tolerance through half diallel analysis of selected wheat genotypes. Heat induced damage of plasma membrane was assayed by membrane thermo-stability (MTS), which measure electrolyte leakage from leaf tissues after exposure to high temperature. Eight genotypes comprising heat tolerant and sensitive response to high temperature stress were hybridized in a half diallel. Electrolyte leakage or MTS was conducted at grain-filling stage of plant growth as ambient temperature become high enough to cause heat hardening of leaves. The mean square for GCA was higher in magnitude than that of SCA, but the components of genetic variance indicated considerable influence of dominance variance in determining inheritance of this trait. Results suggested that the selection for heat tolerant inbred lines based on MTS in this material may be more effective by reducing the dominance variance after a few generation of selfing particularly in a self-pollinated wheat crop. The varieties, Hindi 62 and NIAW 34 were good general and specific combiners in the tolerant group, while HD 2687 and WH 147 were good specific combiners in the heat sensitive group.
23786781|The efficacy of rimsulfuron (15 g ha1 + 0.1% Sandovit as wetting agent) as single post-emergence application at 3-5 leaf stage of crop; metolachlor + atrazine (1800 + 1200 g ha1), pre-emergence; and metolachlor + atrazine (900 + 600 g ha1), as pre-emergence band spraying, on dominant weeds in two maize inbred lines ("OS 1-44" and "OS 36-16") were studied at four sites in trials conducted from 1993 to 1995. Rimsulfuron showed good effect on Sorghum halepense (93% control), Echinochloa crus galli, Setaria spp., Amaranthus retroflexus and Chenopodium album (95% control). This herbicide controlled Sorghum halepense at 10-25 cm and at high dry weight of shoots (528 g m2) more effectively than the treatments that included atrazine. Rimsulfuron was less effective on Polygonum lapathifolium (63-86% control), Ambrosia artemisiifolia (62-73% control) and Abutilon theophrasti (42-60% control). The herbicide did not cause any visible phytotoxicity to the inbred lines. Seed yields increased as a result of all treatments from a weedy control value of 1.96 t ha1 to 2.74-3.28 t ha1. Yield increase among herbicide treatments was in the following order: metolachlor+atrazine at the recommended rate> rimsulfuron>metolachlor+atrazine at a reduced rate.
90002740|Methods are suggested to decrease the error of selenium analysis from plant and soil samples. To analyse selenium in agricultural samples (plant, food, feed and soil), the most appropriate inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer is a quadrupole instrument applying a collision cell technique (CCT). The extent of interfering effect of carbon content depends on the type of compounds. The carbon content significantly affects the measured concentration (intensities) of Se, which can be corrected using internal standard (arsenic or tellurium).
23792332|Fungi of the genus Fusarium are important pathogens of numerous crops including cereals. Infection of the grain with Fusarium spp. often results in the accumulation of various mycotoxins which poses a significant risk to food safety. The Fusarium graminearum species complex, together with F. culmorum, are the main source of trichothecenes in cereal grains. They are comprised of fungal strains producing one of three specific trichothecenes: either 3ADON (3-acetyldeoxynivalenol), 15ADON (15-acetyldeoxynivalenol) (not present in F. culmorum) or NIV (nivalenol). Recently, qualitative PCR approaches have been developed for rapid determination of 3ADON, 15ADON and NIV genotypes within F. graminearum/F. culmorum. This paper presents the development of three TaqMan genotyping assays for quantitative diagnostics of 3ADON, 15ADON and NIV genotypes within F. graminearum/F. culmorum. Primers and probes were designed on the basis of 95 nucleotide site within the Tri12 gene which allowed for specific determination of trichothecene producers. Additionally, to address the problem of detecting inhibitors, an internal positive control (IPC) was developed employing primers and a probe derived from conserved fungal sequence of 5.8S rDNA. The assays developed were successfully applied for direct determination of trichothecene genotypes from Fusarium-damaged wheat kernels (FDK).
23789675|Winter barley were grown under field conditions during the 2004 growing season and residual influences of liming with carbocalk (waste of sugar factory) and phosphorus fertilization with MAP (monoammonium phosphate) were tested. By using the lowest lime rate (15 t ha1) barley yield was increased by 30%. Overliming (90 t ha1) resulted by significant yield decreases in comparison with application 15 and 30 t of lime. Using of 45 and more lime per hectare protein contents was significantly increased. In general, liming considerably influenced on grain composition of barley. For example, by application of the lowest lime rate, grain P, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Cu, Mo and Na significantly increased in comparison with the control. Differences of grain composition among lime treatments were mainly non-significant. Ameliorative P fertilization significantly increased grain yields of barley up to 25% in comparison with the control. In general, grain composition differences among applied treatments were mainly non-significant because significant differences only for P and Mn (increasing trend due to P application) as well as for Zn and Mo (decreasing trend) were found.
90003113|The uptake of copper and lead supplied in nutrient solution (500 M) and their detrimental impact on photosynthetic pigments concentration and dry matter accumulation in three lettuce cultivars were investigated. The concentration of copper and lead in lettuce leaf ranged from 8.62 to 14.20 mg kg
90002847|On the experimental non-irrigated hop-fields in Steknk, an experiment with the varieties Agnus, Premiant, Sldek, Harmonie and newly cultivated variety 4527 was launched in the years 2005 through 2007. For the monitored set of hop plant varieties, photosynthesis and transpiration rates were measured during the vegetation period. The photosynthesis rate of hop increases from the the stage at which sprouts are tied to wires until the stage of hop cone formation. The decline of photosynthesis rate occurs in the period of technological and biological ripeness of hop cones. The provably lowest transpiration rate is in the period of ripeness of hop cones. Conversely, the highest transpiration rates are reached in the period of blooming. It follows from the physiological measurements that the varieties Sldek and Premiant respond to the effect of year-specific influence less sensitively than the newer varieties Agnus, Harmonie and the newly cultivated variety 4527.
23781575|Five durum (Triticum durum L.) varieties were compared in relation to germination percentage, speed of germination, germination recovery, seminal root number and length, coronal root number and length, total root length and weight, shoot weight and shoot:root ratio under different moisture stresses in the labs and the greenhouse. Both moisture tensions and variety have shown effects on the studied parameters. Increasing moisture tension has caused significant reductions in the germination percentage, speed of germination, number of coronal roots, and length of root system. Seminal root number was not affected. The varieties differed in their germination and root system characteristics. The local tall varieties, namely, Deiralla 2 and Hourani were superior in drought tolerance to the semidwarf Mexican varieties namely, Stork 'S' and Cocorit 71. The variety F8 was intermediate. Local varieties possessed higher number of seminal roots and had longer root systems with a lower shoot:root ratio.
90002686|The soil water regime assessment is important for the development of prognosis of soil water regime changes in consequence of technical intervention and also for water balance in certain areas. Many classification systems are possible to use for the evaluation of the soil water regime, but with respect to creating optimal conditions for plants the modified agronomic classification for which water storage in the active root zone is needed seems to be applied. This method is good for soil water regime evaluating on the base of characteristics assigned by simulation with mathematical model. And it was applied for the Mal Levre area witch is situated in Morava Basin and for years 1971-2005.
90002706|We examined the effect of litter layer on the soil phosphatase and glucosidase activity. The following soil characteristics were also measured during the study: soil temperature, moisture, pH, respiration, bacterial and fungal count, carbon and organic matter content. The study site is in North-East of Hungary (Skfkt Project). The long-term litter manipulation field experiment is part of ILTER Detritus Input and Removal Treatments (DIRT) Project. Soil samples were taken 16 times during the five-year experimental period. Our results suggested that the various treatments influenced the enzyme activity. We found significant differences in the enzyme activity of the treatments after three years. The lowest average activity was measured in the No Root plots, the highest in the Double Wood plots. The soil organic matter and carbon content was more important factor than the temperature.
23787647|Several factors influence the quantity and stability of maize yield, the most important being the nutrient supply, the hybrid and precipitation. In 2004, during the maize growing season the precipitation was higher than the 30 years' average, by 68.3 mm, but the distribution was unfavorable. We tested ten hybrids with different genotypes. In the average of hybrids, there was a significant difference between the yield, the photosynthetic activity, the leaf area index in the control and the NPK treatment. The best results were reached at the N40+PK and N120+PK active ingredient doses, the higher doses depressed the yield. The agro-ecological optimum of NPK fertilization was N 120, P 75, K 90 kg.
90002838|The entomopathogenic nematodes are microscopic, soil-inhabiting animals which live in symbiosis with bacteria. The bacteria destroy the host by subduing its immunosystem and it cause host mortality within 36-48 hours. The nematodes feed and reproduce for several generations inside the cadaver. In this study experimental results are reported on Soil Inhabiting Pests and Western Corn Rootworm. Under laboratory conditions the nematodes were effective against the larvae of cockchafer, but the effect of the nematodes was not immediate. Against Western corn rootworm the nematodes was inefficient.
90003467|Groundwater systems are dynamic and continually changing in response to human and climatic stresses. Linkages with surface water, the land surface and the land use are numerous and extend over many different timescales. The aim of this paper is to evaluate quality of water at the part of the Danube Lowland  the east half of the Rye Island (itn Ostrov). This area is one of the most productive agricultural area of Slovakia, so it is very important to deal with pollution stresses in it. On the other hand, agricultural production depends also on accessibility of water by the plant roots. Groundwater level is regulated by channel network in this region. For that the next aim of the paper is to evaluate quantity of water flows through unsaturated zone of soils at this part of Rye Island area. It means to investigate and analyse the silting of the channel network and influence of the silt on the groundwater recharge. Next we tried to investigate the impact of the recharge changes on the water flow from the groundwater into an unsaturated zone of soil for some agricultural plants in their different ontogenesis phases. In this paper there were used results of field measurements and computer simulations.
23780371|Several species of rye being differentiated by their amount of nuclear DNA and the percentage of telomeric heterochromatin were crossed with hexaploid wheat for meiotic analysis of the primary and amphidiploid hybrids. The results show that there is a strong negative correlation between the increased heterochromatin content and the general pairing stability.
90002803|We would like to emphasise in our paper the basic of successful agronomy, plant production, land use in practise is the harmony between the elements of soil-plant interrelation. In this harmony the knowledge regarding the technical development and efficiency can be important as well as the classical agronomical knowledge.
23786243|1A, 2A and msm2 cytoplasmic genic male sterile lines of barley were crossed with restorers to generate 26 hybrids to know the extent of heterosis for grain-yield, malt content and their components. The best heterotic hybrids with 1A, 2A and msm2 exhibited 67, 73 and 25 per cent heterosis respectively for grain yield over the standard variety BH-75. Heterosis for grain yield was attributed to 1000-grain weight and tillers/plant in most of the hybrids. Six-hybrids showed significantly higher heterosis for malt extract over the standard variety Alfa-93. The heterosis for malt-extract was mainly due to high grain yield, low protein-content and plumy kernels (>2.5mm). Most of the hybrids showed negative heterosis for diastatic power, positive heterosis for grain-protein and husk content. Five hybrids namely 1Ax BH75, 1A x Alfa-93, 2A x BH331, 2A x DL88 and msm2 x BH75 showed significant higher heterosis for both grain yield and malt extract.
23789899|Wheat-rye 1BL.1RS translocations have been widely used in wheat breeding programs. A 1BL.1RS translocation wheat line, 91S-23, was developed from a 1R monosomic addition of the rye (Secale cereale) inbred line L155 into wheat (Triticum aestivum) MY11. A new commercial wheat cultivar, CN18, which also contained the 1BL.1RS translocation, was derived from the cross MY11 x 91S-23. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) indicated that the rye centromere was eliminated from the 1BL.1RS chromosomes of CN18 but not from 91S-23. Based on the 1RS source and the centromeric structure of the translocation chromosome, CN18 qualifies as a new wheat cultivar possessing a 1BL.1RS translocation. CN18 displayed high yield performance and resistance to powdery mildew and stripe rust, whereas 91S-23 was susceptible to these diseases. The present study provides a new 1RS resource for wheat improvement.
23790030|The viability of naked oat seeds can deteriorate during storage resulting in grain that is unsuitable for seed used in sowing the crop in the following year. This rapid deterioration has been linked to damage that occurs during harvest. The objective of the research was to determine the germination and vigour of naked oat seeds of cv. Akt, cv. Cacko, cv. Polar, the strain STH 4659, and husked seeds of cv. Bajka and cv. Skrzat, harvested at the moisture content ranging from 22.9% to 10.9%, subjected to threshing at two rotary speeds of the threshing unit: 1.6 m/s and 2.4 m/s. Seeds threshed manually at the same date were the control. The harvest carried out at the seed moisture content of 21.0% as well as the use of high rotary speed, i.e. 2.4 m/s resulted in a significantly higher number of injuries and, in consequence, a reduction in germination by 27% on average and in vigour by 48% on average of naked cultivars compared with seeds of the traditional cultivars.
23792317|Drought and high temperature are two major factors limiting crop production. The two stresses occur together in many regions of the world but they usually are investigated separately. Irrespective of the genotype, growth or treatment conditions, grain growth was severely reduced when wheat plants were exposed to high temperature, drought and combination of both the stresses during endosperm cell division. The extent of thermal as well as drought induced disruption of grain development, however was dependent on genotype. This structural data support the hypothesis that high temperature and drought during endosperm cell division reduces grain sink potential and subsequently mature grain mass, mainly by disrupting cell divisions in peripheral and central endosperm and thus reducing endosperm length and breadth to a considerable extent. The interaction of high temperature and drought stresses resulted in stronger reduction of pericarp thickness and endosperm size than either stress alone.
90003254|Our main goal in this contribution was to investigate whether
23782823|Ten Crosses were used in the present study to find cut the genetics of gel consistency and its correlation with cooking quality components in rice. The experimental populations consisted of the parents, F1, F2, B1 and B2 generations of each cross. The gel consistency was found to be governed by the supplementary gene action (9:3:4) in the crosses of T(N)1 x T-3, Thapachini x Govind, T(N)1 x Hansraj, Thapachini x IR 24, IR 8 x Basnati 370 and IR 8 x Hansraj and by the duplicate genes with cumulative effect (9:6:1) in the crosses of Tilakchandan x Govind, IR 22 x Hansraj and IR 8 x Hansraj. No genetic ratio was found good fit in the cross of IR 28 x T-3. The gel consistency showed positive and significant correlation with the water uptake, volume expansion and kernel elongation. Negative and significant correlation was found between gel consistency and gelatenisation temperature. No correlation between gel consistency and anylose content was observed.
23790047|Two bread wheat crosses were used to genetically map the genes determining anthocyanin pigmentation of the anther (Pan-D1), culm (Pc-B1 and Pc-D1), leaf sheath (Pls-B1), and leaf blade (Plb-B1, Plb-D1). The genes cluster with Rc-1 (red coleoptile) on chromosome arms 7BS and 7DS. A germplasm panel of 37 wheat cultivars and introgression lines was tested for the presence of anthocyanin pigmentation on various plant organs, and significant correlations were established between pigmentation of the coleoptile and culm, coleoptile and leaf blade, coleoptile and anther, and anther and leaf blade.
23785365|Conidia of a non-stromatal isolate of the ochratoxin producing Petromyces albertensis species were irradiated in order to obtain variants altered in ochratoxin production. Variants producing various amounts of ochratoxins, including an ochratoxin non-producing variant were readily isolated. These variants are planned to be applied to reveal details of ochratoxin biosynthesis within this teleomorphic species.
23780385|A field experiment was conducted during two growing seasons (1977, 1978) on a Decatur silty clay loam soil (Rhodic Paleudult) to determine lodging effects on two triticales, '6TA 131' and '6TA 385'. Results indicated that artifically lodged plots produced significantly lower yield than plots with erect stands and plots having natural lodging. Plants from lodged treatments showed significantly shorter height and higher grain protein content than plants from erect and naturally lodged plots. Like other cereals, one of the most important factors limiting triticale (X Triticosecale Wittmack) yield is susceptibility to lodging. Development of new short-statured plants in wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em Thell) reduced lodging and improved grain yield significantly (1, 2, 4). Fellows (3) reported that lodging in wheat can occur by stem breakage, especially after maturity, and plants can fall because of weak root anchorage.
90003425|Spontaneous wheat-barley translocation chromosomes were detected by genomic in situ hybridisation (GISH) in the progenies of wheat/barley addition lines produced from the wheat cultivar Asakaze komugi and the Ukrainan six-rowed barley cultivar Manas. The homozygous translocation line was selected from a heterozygous translocation line with the help of molecular markers and fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) using repetitive DNA probes. The wheat chromosome arm involved in the translocation was identified by FISH as 4BS. The barley chromosome segment could not be unequivocally determined with the hybridisation of the repetitive DNA sequences used in the present work (Afa family, pSc119.2, pTa71). The microsatellite marker analysis revealed the presence of an almost complete 7HL chromosome arm, but the centromeric region of 7HL was missing from this translocation line. The rearranged chromosome, identified as 4BS.7HL with a centromeric deletion of 7HL, represents a unique genetic material which can be used for the physical mapping of genes or genetic markers within 7HL. As the barley chromosome 7H is considered to be the most important chromosome for drought tolerance, the translocation line will make it possible to reveal the effect of the abiotic stress-related genes situated on the incorporated 7HL segment in the genetic background of wheat.
23783776|Resistance to Septoria tritici blotch (STB) has not proven effective in stabilizing yield in epidemic years. Tolerance may provide an interim means of broad-based genetic control until effective resistance genes can be identified. Differential loss in traits, compared to fungicide protected plots, served as the basis for evaluation of STB tolerance in soft red winter wheats. Significant variation was identified in loss-severity ratios for grain yield components, test weight and milling quality traits, in cultivars differing in resistance. It was concluded that selection under high disease pressure based on an index of low disease rating, kernel weight and test weight would be feasible in early generation nurseries and should enhance STB tolerance in derived lines.
23781351|Immature barley embryos were cultured on media containing a range of 2, 4-D concentrations for various times before being moved to basal medium for plant regeneration. At an exposure time to 2, 4-D of 4 weeks, there was no difference in the frequency of plant regeneration at 1-3 mg/12, 4-D, but at 4 mg/1, plant regeneration was lower. Progeny of these regenerated plants were grown to test for genetic variants. Those from 1-3 mg/1 2, 4-D showed no abnormalities, whereas those from 4 mg/1 had several abnormalities. Plant regeneration is assumed to occur from organised areas carried over from the initial embryo explant.
23790045|The guidelines elaborated by the Community Plant Variety Office (CPVO) of the European Union for the registration and patenting of varieties and hybrids of cultivated crops are based on the triple criteria of distinctiveness, uniformity and stability (DUS). For many species, however, morphological descriptions are not sufficient for the detection of differences between varieties. Techniques that allow varieties to be identified and distinguished precisely and reliably are essential not only for variety identification, but also to protect variety ownership rights. Biochemical and molecular genetic methods have now reached a level of development that makes them suitable for this purpose, and when these are combined with conventional field observations the breeding stock can be unequivocally identified and any existing genetic diversity can be detected. The regular application of such analyses is a fundamental criterion in the case of maize, as more and more closely related hybrids are being entered for testing. The aim of the present work was to examine how isoenzyme patterns and PCR-based genetic markers could be used in polymorphism analysis, in order to obtain information on the genetic diversity of Hungarian breeding materials. The emphasis was on finding genetic markers characteristic of individual maize varieties, rather than of maize as a species.
23782848|with a view to induce male sterility, Aegilops comosa cytoplasm alongwith some additional chromosomes were incorporated in 15 hexaploid wheats, having diverse genetic background through backcross programme. Preferential transmission of three additional alien chromosomes was confirmed on the basis of their somatic chromosomal morphology. In some male sterile lines, besides comosa cytoplasmic influence, distinct effects of three alien chromosomes were manifested on morphological traits, maturity and seed fertility in F1, BC1, and BC2 generations.
23785263|The presence of inoculum of Stagonospora nodorum was detected by placing wheat seedlings in the field for short periods throughout the year. Inoculum was monitored in growing wheat crops, on wheat stubble, and in adjacent fields of tall fescue over a three year period. S. nodorum was found throughout the year but was detected least often during the summer months and in October, the driest month of the year. Seedlings became infected when placed in wheat stubble up to 22 months after wheat was harvested. S. nodorum was infrequently found in the tall fescue within 17 m from the edge of the wheat fields. The wheat biotype of S. nodorum was recovered from wheat and barley seedlings, but the barley biotype was not found. The results show that inoculum of S. nodorum is produced within a field and is disseminated only short distances. The results provide additional circumstantial evidence that the asexual stage is the source of inoculum in the southeastern U.S.
23783981|F6-lines of two crosses of winter wheat were used to study the relation between the composition of high molecular weight (HMW) glutenin subunits, bread-making quality (protein content and sodium dodecyl sulphate-sedimentation volume) and agronomic properties, such as kernel yield, straw length, straw stiffness and leaf rust attack. As expected there was a clear effect of HMW-subunits on sodium dodecyl sulphate-sedimentation volume (SDS-sv.), which was especially due to the Glu-D1 locus. Protein content contributed considerably to the variation in SDS-sv. and this effect was comparable to the effect of the HMW-subunits. HMW-subunits had only small effects on straw stiffness and no effects on straw length or resistance to leaf rust. The effect of Glu-D1 on kernel yield and the negative relationship between protein content and kernel yield and SDS-sv. and kernel yield in the cross SVP 84015 indicated that selection for kernel yield may have a detrimental effect on selection for baking quality. Selection for kernel yield as well as for bread-making quality may be more successful if the composition of HMW-subunits is screened for in early generations.
23786181|Using greenhouse techniques that nearly-simulate field water deficit would be a supplemental method for screening potential cultivars adapted to water deficit environments. The objective of this study was to determine if there were differential responses to water deficit in chlorophyll content and chlorophyll fluorescence, and determine the drought susceptibility index (DSI) amongst eight genetically diverse wheat cultivars. An experiment was conducted in three replicates where chlorophyll content and chlorophyll fluorescence were measured at 30 days after planting following (a) an early seedling stage water deficit treatment, and (b) a non-water-deficit treatment. A separate experiment was conducted, using a common protocol, to determine the DSI. Water deficit decreased chlorophyll a, b, and total chlorophyll content in all cultivars and caused a decrease in photosynthetic efficiency (PSE) by between 44.5 and 55.7%. Results showed significant (P<0.05) cultivar x water treatment interaction for chlorophyll a, total chlorophyll and PSE and cultivars differed significantly for DSI.
90003497|Due to climate change, beech has reached its xeric limit on many sites in the Carpathian Basin. Health status and climate of the last 30 years were investigated in selected zonal beech stands. To assess the climatic conditions of beech forests a tolerance index (Q
90003018|The common milkweed causes considerable damages on the agricultural and nature conservation areas. The area occupied by this weed is continuously bigger. Though the basic biological characters of this plant is well.known, still its control is a significant problem, the damages increase on the areas occupied by this weed.
23782924|Intergeneric hybrids of Hordeum marinum (2n=2x=14) and H. depressum (2n=4x=28) with Triticum aestivum cv. Chinese Spring were produced by embryo culture technique. All hybrids were self-sterile. The morphology of H. marinum  T. aestivum hybrid was predominantly like its wheat parent. The hybrids H. depressum  T. aestivum presented some conspicuous maternal characteristics in vegetative aspect. The somatic chromosome number of two different hybrids was 2n=4x=28 and 2n=5x=35 respectively. Meiotic analysis showed a mean bivalent frequency of 0.11 and 0.04, indicating no homology between parental genomes. Since the pioneering work of Kruse in 1973, several Hordeum species including H. vulgare (Kruse, 1973), H. bogdanii (Kimber & Sallee, 1976), H. pulsillum (Finch & Bennett, 1980), H. chilense (Martin and Cubero, 1981), H. californicum (Gupta and Fedak, 1985) and H. bulbosum (Blanco et al., 1986), have been used in Hordeum-Triticum hybridization. Hybrids of H. vulgare with T. aestivum, T. durum and T. dicoccum have been obtained in our laboratory since 1983. This paper describes the morphology and meiosis of two new Hordeum-Triticum hybrids involving H. marinum, H. depressum and T. aestivum cv. Chinese Spring.
90003266|The aim of this project is the identification of genes involved in Fusarium head blight resistance and their integration into existing QTL maps of winter wheat.
23779252|Kinetin (6-furfurylaminopurine) was effective in shortening the vernalization time of Italian winter wheat Alpe. Moreover the heading began earlier in treated plants vernalized in long day (16 hr) than in short day (8 hr) photoperiod showing additivity of kinetin and day length on the speed of vernalization. No evidence of devernalization was found even in 45-day cold treated plants. An inhibitory effect on tillering of both cold treatment and 50 ppm kinetin was observed.
90002652|The water use and impact on soil penetration resistance of various green manure plants used as main and secondary crops were examined under unfavourable field conditions in Gdll. As a result of the research it can be concluded that green manure plants exert considerable impact on deeper soil layers as well.
23787254|Barley germplasm including released varieties in India were evaluated for their glucan content and wort filteration rate. Wide range of variability was observed for these qualify traits among these genotypes. -glucan content varied from 2.8% to 7.1% with the mean value of 4.8% and wort filteration rate from 80 ml/hr to 335 ml/hr with the mean value of 192 ml/hr. -glucan content and wort filteration rate showed significant negative correlation (r=0.51, P<.001). The ttest analysis of the lines grown at two locations indicated significant environmental influence (at 5% level) on wort filteration rate and non-significant effect on -glucan content.
23786980|The wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) - rye (Secale cereale L.) translocation T1BL.1RS was reported to increase the duration of the growth cycle and, in certain conditions, to enhance grain yield. It has been suggested that these effects depend on the environmental conditions and genetic background. In the present study, the effects of the 1BL.1RS translocation were analysed in a warm environment. The effect of the translocation on grain yield was negative under rainfed and nil under irrigated conditions. Under drought, the magnitude of yield reduction highly depended on the genetic recipient. The translocation was associated with higher leaf rolling and chlorophyll content. The effects of the modification of these traits on grain yield merits further investigation.
90002319|A field experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of soil application of zinc fertilizer on yield and yield components of wheat (
23784296|Seeds stored for 0,5, 5, 12 and 18 years respectively were germinated during the routine germination tests of Hungarian gene bank. Data of percentage of germination and rates of occurrence of molded seeds and abnormal seedlings were recorded by samples, and correlations to each other and to storage time periods were computed. The correlations were positive in pairs of storage time-molding, storage time-abnormality and molding-abnormality. Negative correlations were observed in case of storage time-germination, germination-molding and germination-abnormality pairs. The germinability of seeds remained above 80% after storing the seeds for 5 years, while the abnormality remained under 3% during the first 12 years of storing and rate of molded seeds was higher than 10% after 5 year.
23782741|Aneuploid frequency was determined for six high yielding hexaploid triticales in regional trials in North East of Portugal. Triticales from INRA, - France - showed average aneuploid values lower (from 5.75% to 9.57%) than Drira triticales from ENMP/CIMMYT, - Portugal, (10.81% and 11.51%) (0.01<P<0.02). Aneuploid frequency increases in smaller kernel size class (P<0.01). Aneuploid frequency was due almost exclusively to the variation in hypoploids (P<0.01). Hyperploids were rare (from 0.00% to 2.97%) and are not correlated to kernel size (P = N.S.). Some comments on the practical implications of these results are made.
23785321|Activities of superoxide-dismutase, catalase and peroxidase and pigment content in leaves of wheat inoculated with Azotobacter chroococcum strains and supplied with different amounts of nitrogen were investigated. Inoculation with Azotobacter and higher nitrogen concentration caused an increase in all examined parameters.
90002961|The field trial was conducted over the period 2000-2005 at the RIPP in Pieany in Western Slovakia. The purpose of the study was to investigate yield and yield components of spring barley undersown with red clover growing in ecological and low input systems. In the six year crop rotation pattern, incorporation of straw, crop residues, catch crops for green manure and farmyard manure was used. The effects of farming systems were assessed by evaluating the yield and yield components of spring barley. Grain yields, calculated from the mean values achieved in the six year study period, were significantly differed between ecological (4.8 t ha
23782896|N-Banding and Feulgen staining of somatic chromosomes of Aegilops markgrafii (Aegilops caudata, genome CC, 2n = 14) were applied for karyotyping. By use of these techniques it is possible to differentiate the seven chromosomes from each other by N-Banding patterns and chromosome morphology.
23785287|Plant regeneration frequency and average number of plant per callus significantly enhanced in Indica rice callus maintained under the stimulatory effect of stressing conditions. Culture on high sucrose concentration for one week before regeneration, increasing gelling agent concentrations in the regeneration medium above the recommended levels, or blotting on filter paper for drastically reducing callus water content prior regeneration lead to significant improvements of regeneration efficiency from callus, although no selection of embryogenic clusters was performed. The simple procedures described in this paper provide an alternative for improving regeneration capacity in other rice cultivars and recalcitrant cereal species for in vitro regeneration of whole plants.
23786982|Effect of heat (37C, 24 hours) and chilling (4C, 24 hours) stress on SOD activity was investigated in shoots and roots of hexaploid and tetraploid wheat cultivars. In order to analyse the changes of SOD isozymes against heat and chilling stress, shoot and root extracts were subjected to native PAGE. Extracts of both tissues revealed the presence of Mn and Cu/Zn isozymes of SOD. Cu/ZnSOD activity comprised 90% of total SOD activity in both tissues. Heat stress caused a significant increase in SOD activity both in root and shoot tissues of the hexaploid cultivars whereas a decrease was observed in the tetraploid cultivar. Under cold stress no significant change in SOD activity was observed in shoot tissues of all cultivars. On the contrary, SOD activities in the roots of the hexaploid cultivars were significantly enhanced while a decrease was observed in the roots of tetraploid cultivar. Our data suggest that enhanced SOD activity might be one of the reasons of relatively greater stress tolerance of bread wheat cultiars over durum cultivars under heat and chilling stress conditions.
23786264|The potential of somaclonal variation to contribute genetic variation for wheat improvement has been widely recognized. Thirty selected lines derived from tissue culture of spring bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivar Pavon were grown in replicated trials at CAEVY, Sonora, northwest Mexico, during two production seasons to assess their agronomic performance and quality traits. Field evaluation indicated that the tissue culture-derived lines (TCDL) possessed more grains/m2, spikes/m2, grains/spike, earlier flowering date, longer grain-filling period and shorter height than the original breeder line Pavon. Laboratory results revealed that 20% of the TCDLs had improved flour protein. In contrast, 1000-grain weight and test weight of the regenerants were inferior to the Pavon parent. No significant difference was observed between the mean grain yield of TCDLs and the breeder line. In conclusion, it appears that the variations observed in the study could have direct implications in a wheat germplasm enhancement program.
23783832|The effect of genotype, liquid and solid medium, ancymidol in liquid medium, spike cold pretreatment and their interaction was investigated in two tetraploid wheat genotypes. In each treatment approximately 1000 anthers were studied. Pollen embryoid induction frequency in liquid medium with 0.1 mg/l of ancymidol (growth retardant) was 2 times higher than control liquid medium and approximately 5 times more than solid medium. Cold pretreatment of spikes (7 days at 4C 1) usually reduced embryo yield. The highest frequency of embryoid formation per 100 anthers was obtained in the liquid medium containing 0.1 mg/l of ancymidol without cold pretreatment in Dicoccodes noir genotype (79.72). Green and total regenerations per 100 embryos were influenced by genotypes. The use of ancymidol decreased green regeneration when compared with control liquid medium. Liquid medium improved total regeneration when compared with solid medium (4.04 to 7.68%). In liquid medium the number of embryoids and green regeneration was increased for both genotypes and by using this medium, at least one plantlet per 100 to 200 cultured anthers should be obtained, and these two genotypes can be no more considered as recalcitrants.
23783845|The effect of Russian wheat aphid (RWA), Diuraphis noxia infestation on protein, free amino acid, free proline, chlorophyll and phenolic contents as well as respiration rate was studied in resistant (cv Tugela-DN) and susceptible (cv Tugela) wheat under greenhouse conditions. The results confirm that RWA infestation poses a stress condition for both resistant and susceptible wheat. Responses of resistant plants to stress induced by RWA infestation in many respects resemble known resistance responses to other biotic as well as abiotic stresses. Results indicate that metabolically, resistant plants have a better ability to survive the stress condition imposed by sustained infestation. Infestation induced changes in proline content are evidently contributing to resistance. The increased phenolic content in resistant wheat after infestation may have a deterrent effect as well.
90003035|Field experiments were conducted over two years at three different locations (ainovecki Lug (1 and 2) and Oborovo) to evaluate the influence of post-emergence herbicides (imazamox at 40 g a.i. ha
23789855|The high degree of climate variability is one of the highest risk factors of production, which has to be taken into consideration at all times even within the framework of modern agriculture. One of the most important opportunities of adapting to changing climatic conditions is the evaluation of plant types and genotypes according to fertility and genotypes. The effect of year on the yield of maize was examined through using a twenty-two year yield sequence. Weather was changeable in the examined period, therefore the effect of fertilisation was very different as well. The relationship between the quantity of precipitation in the winter period and growing season and the unfertilised treatments can be easily detected. The quantitative relationship between the two variables is average, because beside the total quantity of the precipitation the periodical distribution is also a significant factor that influences yield. Significantly small yield is not always accompanied by the lowest amount of precipitation (1994, 1995). Larger yields however, were always accompanied by higher precipitation (1998, 1999, 2001, 2004). It can be well detected that with similar precipitation quantities, different amounts of yields will form due to the periodical distribution of changing precipitation. The accessible spring water resource is decisively influenced by the winter period. Based on the evaluation of our research results we have found that the specific years showed a close correlation with fertilisation. In droughty years or in years with lower or average precipitation, the application of higher fertiliser dosages was more favourable, but only the application of 60 kg N/ha fertiliser dosage is required at most in consecutive dry years. A higher fertiliser dosage (1995) increases the risk of maize production, decreasing the risk associated, thus reducing the efficiency of maize production. In case of favourable water supply  based on experiment results  the application of 120 kg N/ha fertiliser dosage is justified. According to the results of variance analysis, the examined fertiliser effect is significant when jointly examining the twenty-two years. The effect of water supply was different, depending on the degree of water supply, when evaluating the specific years separately. The yield level of maize hybrids is 10 t/ha in years with favourable water cycles, while in droughty years the harvestable yield was 23 t/ha. Yield fluctuation can be reduced through appropriate soil cultivation, water and nutrient supply.
23786241|The influence of 1D, 3D, 4D and 5B wheat chromosomes and their parental genotypes on the number and character of the bivalent and polyvalent association as well as chiasma frequency in PMCs was studied. F1 hybrids were obtained by crosses between four hexaploid cultivars Triticum aestivum L.2n=42: Chinese Spring (CS), Mironovka 808 (M808), Zlatka (Zl), Novostepnyachka (N), as well as their monosomic lines by 1D, 3D, 4D and 5B chromosomes with two inbred lines Secale Cereale L.2n=14: Bulgarian Low Stem Rye(BLSR) and Lozen 14(L14). It was established that 5B chromosome had the strongest influence on the homoeologous chromosome pairing, followed by 3D. The strength of the systems, located on 5B and 3D chromosomes was different for the different wheat cultivars.5B and 3D systems in CS and M808 cvs. are with a definitely strong effects and they are significantly weaker in N and Zl. The strength of the suppressors of the homoeologous chromosome pairing does not depend on the male genotypes.
90003142|A new carbendazim degrading bacterium was isolated from Hungarian agricultural soil sample by microbiological enrichment methods. The molecular analysis revealed that this isolate belongs to the
23783032|Examinations were made of the activities of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase and peroxidase during the "dormancy" period of genetically different wheat samples. The antioxidant enzyme activities revealed large differences, which are useful to decribe the specific character of the samples. The measurements indicated that the antioxidant enzymes can substitute each other in wheat seeds. The mode of inheritance of the antioxidant enzymes was studied in 5  5 diallele crosses (excluding reciprocals). The highest variability was determined for superoxide dismutase, and the lowest for catalase activity. The genotypes and F1 hybrids differed significantly in enzyme activities. The inheritance of superoxide dismutase and catalase was controlled by non-additive genes (dominance and epistasis). Peroxidase activity inheritance was under the control of additive and non-additive gene action, but with a preponderance of the former.
23790365|The main goal of our work was to determine the composition of high-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS) in 84 cultivars of common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) originating from eight European countries and registered in Slovakia. Eleven alleles and 18 allelic compositions were detected. The most frequent HMW-GS patterns were "NULL", 7+9, 5 + 10 and "NULL", 7 + 8, 5 + 10 which were observed in twenty-seven (31%) and fourteen (16.1%) cultivars, respectively. The allele 5 + 10, which has the strongest association with good bread-making quality, was present in 75% of analysed accessions. The wheat-rye 1BL/1RS translocation was identified in eleven cultivars.
23786988|Present study involved 12 lodging tolerant/ susceptible spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genotypes grown at 180, 300 kg N/ha and 480 g/ha ethephon application in latter N rate at CIMMYT (Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo), Mexico during 1997-98 and 1998-99 under disease free and irrigated condition. During both the years, crop lodged 25 to 30 days after anthesis in varying degrees at different N levels whereas, ethephon application at DC 38 prevented lodging and decreased the ADF (acid detergent fibre), cellulose and lignin content by 8.47, 8.81 and 5.56 %, respectively in the basal internode and increased K content of 2nd internode by 9.6 % as compared to without its application. However, increasing N rates from 180 to 300 kg/ha determined non-significant difference for ADF, cellulose, lignin and K concentrations in the 2nd and 3rd internodes. ADF and cellulose concentrations of 3rd internode were higher by 3.2-3.8 % and 4.7-5.3 %, respectively when compared with 2nd internode whereas 2nd internode determined 1.9-4.2 % higher lignin and 12.3-13.4 % more potassium contents than the 3rd internode at different N levels. Pooled analysis indicated that genotypic differences for ADF, cellulose, lignin and K contents were significant for both the internodes. ADF, cellulose and lignin contents for the 2nd and the 3rd internodes were negatively correlated with lodging score and in combined analysis of 3rd internode its phenotypic correlation was - 0.53, - 0.57 and - 0.61 with lodging score, respectively. Also, from multiple correlations study it was observed that ADF, cellulose and lignin contents had a positive impact among themselves and their cumulative effect in turn might be preventing lodging. Therefore, it could be said that higher ADF, cellulose and lignin content of basal internode were important parameters in developing a lodging resistant cultivar under irrigated and high N conditions.
90003076|This study present the results from a batch experiments, where measurements of liquid-phase concentrations at varying liquid/solid ratios are used to estimate the total mass of phosphorus, that can be adsorbed from a soil solution. An application to concentration measurements obtained from a batch tests illustrates the applicability of the approach for a real situation. Objectives of the study were to characterize the adsorption proces of phosphorus for some types of soils.
23780372|Hull-less barley cultivars are preferred over hulled barleys in human and animal diets because of their lower fiber content. Four pairs of hulled parents and their hull-less progeny and near-isogenic hull-less lines of barley were analyzed to assess the genetic variation for mineral element content between hulled and hull-less lines. Differences in concentration of mineral elements (P, K, Ca, Mg, Zn, Mn, Fe) in mature kernels between paired hulled and hull-less lines were significant only for Fe and Mn. The hulled grain contained as much as 22% more Fe than the hull-less grain in all but one cultivar pair. The Mn concentration differed significantly only among one hulled-hull-less pair by 20% more in the hulled cultivar. Differences among cultivars for other minerals were not detected and, therefore, the hull-less gene apparently has little effect on the mineral accumulation in barley seeds.
23786114|Northern corn leaf blight (NCLB), a disease caused by fungus Exserohilum turcicum becomes more important in Central Europe. Due to usually very low severity, however, breeding for the disease resistance is reliable only in terms of artificial infection. The objective of the study was to compare two methods of artificial infection: primary (direct) inoculation and secondary (indirect) infection. 28 inbred lines and 18 hybrids were evaluated in North Croatia for the disease resistance in two year trials at two and three locations, respectively. Significant differences for severity scores were found between genotypes, and generally no differences between the two methods of infection. Thus, the secondary artificial infection was effective under climatic conditions of North Croatia. Due to corresponding results of the two methods, breeders can choose a method which is more suitable for particular breeding programs.
23782870|An electrophoretic investigation of gliadins was carried out in the initial and hybrid forms of the combinations Ae. crassa x cv. Bezostaya 1 and Ae. crassa x IBO 1828. Both cultivars belong to T. aestivum. The presumption was that the qualitative differences observed in the alpha beta, gamma and omega gliadin zones of the forms investigated are due to introgression of Ae. crassa genetic material. The quantitative variations of the alpha 6 component in the forms investigated are considered to result from complex regulatory interactions affecting the chromosomes responsible for the sinthesis of that component. On the basis of the changes in the omega gliadin component zone of the 2441 and 1946 forms, which were related to the absence of components  8 and  9, and excluding the possibility of genetic material introgression from the initial forms it was suggested that the absent chromosome is from the 1D chromosome pair.
90003310|The grain of two wheat cultivars (Hana and Samanta) was inoculated with three isolates of
23782994|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em Thell) strains Fukuhokomugi and Asakazekomugi were pollinated with three species of Agropyron (A. repens, A. intermedium and A. ponticum) and one species of Elymus (E. angustus). Hybridity was confirmed by somatic chromosome counts and plant morphology. Hybrid production, as per cent of pollinated florets, ranged from 2-38% with Agropyron species and 1-5% with Elymus.
90003212|A BC1F6 population from the cross
23783669|Stability and response patterns of grain yield and test weight in winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) with respect to stability variance (i2), regression coefficient (bi), mean square for deviation from regression (sdi2), coefficient of determination (ri2), variance of genotypic mean across environments (Si2), and genotypic coefficient of variation across environments (CVi) were compared. Analyses were performed on yield and test weight data of 14 cultivars from six tests of the Louisiana Agricultural Experiment Station wheat performance trials. The i2, sdi2, and ri2 were similar in ranking cultivars for stability of grain yield or test weight, but rankings were not correlated between the two traits. The correlations of bi with Si2 and CVi were higher for test weight than for grain yield. Since mean yield and mean test weight were as strongly correlated with each other (rs = 0.71** for Xi as their regression responses (rs = 0.72** for bi), selection for high yield and test weight as well as high stability can be performed simultaneously by using regression parameters.
90003186|The objective of this study was to identify resistant commercial hybrids and to evaluate a genetically diverse collection of inbreds as a potential source of resistance to
90002735|Excess calcium in expressly carbonate soils (up to 40 % CaO) in the Pleivica sub-region causes soil bicarbonates accumulation and ion antagonism, thereby disturbing uptake of nutrients, notably Mg and micronutrients. Deficit of some elements results in chlorosis and physiological disorders, which often depress yield and wine quality. Research results show significant differences in soil reaction and CaCO
23782761|The trigeneric Triticum-Hordeum-Secale hybrid was produced by crossing hexaploid triticale with octoploid tritordeum (H. chilense x T. aestivum ssp. sphaerococcum amphiploid). Neither hormonal treatment nor embryo culture was necessary. The hybrid plants were morphologically intermediate between the parents. The trigeneric hybrid had a genomic constitution of AABBDRHch and 2n = 7x = 49 chromosomes. The meiotic analysis showed no homoeologous pairing between wheat and rye, wheat and H. chilense or rye and H. chilense chromosomes. Reduction of homologous pairing between the A and B genomes of wheat was observed. The trigeneric hybrid was sterile.
23785285|Excised-leaf water status parameters as relative water content (RWC), rate of water loss (RWL), leaf water potential (WP), which are considered as indicators for drought resistance in wheat, as well as some agronomic traits were evaluated in two parental (Pavon, Siete Cerros) and 60 doubled haploid (DH) lines derived from their cross in a randomised block experimental design with three replications in a controlled greenhouse. Significant genotypic differences were observed among the 60 DH lines for all traits studied, while there was no significant difference between the two parents. Significant genetic gains were achieved based on a selection rate of 10% for RWC, RWL and most agronomic traits which also had high heritabilities. Genetic correlations showed an association of low RWL and low WP (in positive values) with high yield and most of its related traits; while high leaf water potential was associated with high thousand grain weight and harvest index. Multivariate analysis identified some genotypes associating high RWC, low leaf WP and good yield that have to be further evaluated in normal and dry field conditions.
90003083|These research has aimed to study how biofertilization as an option for environmentally friendly supply of nutrients influences plant production as a function of different nutrient supply; what effects the application of biofertilizers exercise on the parameters characterizing photosynthetic efficiency, and consequently what quantitative growth they result in. According to our results, the application of biofertilizers could increase the amount of dry matter production both in a root and shoot of maize. The biofertilizer intensified root growth and increased the relative amount of chlorophyll molecules. The effectiveness of biofertilizaton was the highest in presence of half amount of complete nutrient solution. The absence and normal amount of nutrients reduce positive effect of biofertilization.
90003253|We investigate secreted virulence factors of
23790005|The aim of the investigation was to determine if the CWSI could be used to determine when the irrigation water should be applied to maize under Hungarian changeable weather. Three water treatments were applied: "Ad libitum" watering in lysimeter's growing chambers, irrigated treatment (use of CWSI), and rainfed control. The theoretical approximation of crop water stress index was applied in our long-term investigation. Among the 17 consecutive seasons between 1989 and 2005 included in the study there were seven arid and four humid seasons. The remaining summers had semi-humid character. To represent the influence of drought on water stress index of maize we chose the year of 2000, the driest and warmest season from the beginning of weather observations of Keszthely. As a counterpoint stress index results of 1997 served as an example of humid seasons. The degree of the deviation in CWSI as a result of different weather may vary, but the tendency in arid or humid seasons remained the same. The basic parameter of CWSI, the canopy temperatures were measured using a hand-held infrared thermometer. Relevant meteorological and plant data were collected locally. Our final conclusion was that there is no problem in use of CWSI during arid summers, where radiation is undisturbed and the cloudiness does not disturb the canopy temperature sampling. In arid seasons increases in assimilatory surface size and yield of maize in irrigated treatments were between 2035% and 1030%, respectively. The extra production seems to be enough to cover the irrigation costs. There is also no problem in humid seasons, where the sky is often covered by clouds, but there is no need to irrigate maize in Hungary. In semi-humid weather not only the environmental circumstances may disturb the plant temperature measurements and calculation of CWSI (doubtful results caused by changeable radiation and wind), but the probable yield surplus  below 5%  is also negligible. The irrigation costs are higher than the production gain during semi-humid seasons. In Hungary about one third of the seasons have characteristics of an arid weather where sampling of canopy temperatures provides reliable basis to calculate CWSI and plan irrigation timing.
90003203|Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is an important tool for rapid assessment of gene function in plants. The ability of the Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) VIGS system to simultaneously silence two genes was assessed by comparing the extent of down-regulation of the wheat
23777639|Genetical analysis for the peduncle length in a six parent half diallel cross of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) was carried out using various techniques. All the analyses indicated predominantly additive type of gene action for the trait. There were atleast 6 genes or groups of genes governing the inheritance of peduncle length. The tall parent C273 possessed most of the dominant genes which were increasers. This variety was the best general combiner and its crosses with semi-dwarf cultivars S410 and PV18 could be used for improving peduncle length of the dwarf genotypes. The selection could be very effective since the heritability value of 93% was very high.
90003165|Advanced backcross quantitative trait loci (AB-QTL) analysis was applied to identify loci associated with resistance to Fusarium head blight (FHB) in a BC
23780384|             ,    ,      .  ,           -   .       -,       - ,       .     --   4%      -  .        -   ,            /      2,5-3-./             .
90003259|Kinetics of fungal spread and Trichothecenes B (TCT B) contamination were achieved using four hybrids of Maize characterized by different levels of resistance. Inoculation was performed using a toxigenic Fusarium graminearum strain 5 days after flowering into the silk channel. In addition, phenolic acids composition was evaluated at the different grain filling stages for the four hybrids. Results are discussed with regards to a potential involvement of phenolic acids in limitation of toxins accumulation and resistance level.
23783665|Four hundred sixty-two wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) accessions from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Turkey and the Soviet Union were screened in the greenhouse for seedling resistance to the Russian wheat aphid, (Diuraphis noxia Mordvilko). Eighteen white wheat accessions were identified as possessing moderate to good resistance. Several of the accessions had resistance equal to that conferred by either Dn1 or Dn2. Although all accessions showed some chlorosis after 28 days of feeding by D. noxia, chlorosis, leaf curling and folding were reduced in the resistant accessions compared to the susceptible check cultivar.
90003058|During 2005-06, influence of irrigation on olive fruits susceptibility to olive fruit fly Bactrocera oleae Gmelin (Diptera, Tephritidae) was explored on two locations planted in karst soil condition in middle Dalmatia. Inside olive orchards, the difference between irrigated and non irrigated plots was observed, in accordance to B. oleae adults population fluctuation and fruit infestation. Olive fruits infestation by B. oleae and fruit drop in Splitsko  dalmatinska county, was higher on irrigated plot from July till November, during both years of experiment, at signifficant level. Olive fruits infestation by B. oleae and fruit drop in Zadarska county, was not recorded during July and August, mainly because of low population of B. oleae adults and unfavourable abiotic conditions. Later, during Sept. and October, olive fruits infestation and fruit drop was higher on irrigated plot at signifficant level. Results of investigation confirm that besides abiotic factors, growing conditions with or withouth irrigation could signifficantly increase B. oleae infestation in fruits.
23782992|Two cultivars of Triticum turgidum, Modoc and Ma, and T. aestivum cv. Chinese Spring were crossed onto the amphiploid T. timopheevi x Hordeum bogdanii and meiosis studied in the F1 hybrids. The meiotic data from the pentaploid hybrids showed the best fit to kimber's 2:1:1:1 genome formulla implying homology of A genomes only. However, a bivalent frequency slightly in excess of seven and a low trivalent frequency imply additional pairing between A, B, G and H genome chromosomes.
23784201|All randomly selected 44 wheat and 3 triticale cultivars formed calli on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 1.0 mg/l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and the frequency of callus induction generally did not vary significantly among genotypes. The frequency of regeneration ranged from 1% to 93% (40% an average) in wheat and from 5% to 84% (38% an average) in triticale. Small proportion of regenerating calli of wheat cultivars contained embryoid-like structures ranged from 0% (in 30 cultivars) to 39% (4% an average); however, the proportion of this type of calli was higher, ranging from 0% to 81% (32% an average) in triticale. Precocious germination of immature embryos showed a negative, while callus growth showed a positive relationship with the regeneration.
90002656|Water retention ability and relative water content of excised leaves, post-anthesis stress induced by chemical desiccation and the determination of the canopy temperature were assessed in the nursery to study a wide range of breeding material's cuticular resistance against water loss and translocation ability of stored stem reserves. A mobile automatic rain shelter (MARS) construct was developed in nursery of CRC in Szeged. The MARS, parallel with ideal water supply gives a good chance for field testing of relatively high number of genotypes for drought tolerance. Correlation between the rankings of entries in the different tests however was low.
90003204|Until now, testing for resistance to FHB in cereals has been expensive and affected by differences in environmental conditions. Rapid screening methods are needed. Recently it was discovered that in wheat good extrusion of anthers (AE) is associated with high resistance to FHB. In one genetic study a fan- shaped pattern was found: The variation and level of FHB/DON was reduced when AE increased. In order to verify these results, 69 varieties of winter wheat from Germany and Scandinavia and 136 varieties of spring wheat from GRAMINOR breeding in Norway were tested for AE and resistance to FHB and DON. The fan- shaped distribution was found also here. Accordingly, AE is recommended as a new and inexpensive screening method for low FHB. When sufficient moisture is available in the period before flowering and wind do not remove anthers, field selection for AE could be made, in other cases greenhouse selection is recommended.
23784198|Diallel genotic analysis was carried out for a group of eight diverse genotypes of wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum Koch), to evaluate the mode of inheritance of seed weight in mg (SW), endosperm protein concentration (PROTEIN) and protein per seed in mg (PROTSD). Additive gene effects were predominant for each trait, and narrow sense heritability (NSH) estimates ranged from 0.46 for PROTEIN to 0.74 for SW and PROTSD. Wr-Vr plots indicated the presence of partial dominance effects. The H. spontaneum parental genotypes were crossed to H. vulgare lines 'Ruth' and '859B'; relative differences in the F1 were much greater for SW and PROTSD than for PROTEIN. Development of H. spontaneum base populations for use in breeding high protein barley is discussed.
23787277|The studies on the biology of seven spot ladybird beetle, Coccinella septempunctata L. were conducted in laboratory with cereal aphid, Sitobion avenae (F.) as prey at a temperature range of 20-23 degree Celsius. The incubation period was recorded to be 4.2 days with a range of 3.5-4.5 days. The average hatchability was 81.89 per cent with a range 70-90 per cent. The predator passed through four larval instars completing the average duration in 2.27, 1.81, 2.25, and 3.06 days, respectively. The total larval period was observed to be 9.39 days with a range of 8.2-10.5 days. The pupal period lasted for 4.7 days with a range 4.0-4.9 days. On an average male longevity was observed to be 36.91 days with a range of 33 to 37 days. However, the female survived for 39.9 days with a range of 33-47 days. The beetles started mating 4-11 days after emergence with an average pre-mating period of 6.4 days. The mating duration was recorded as 54 minutes with a range of 41 to 62 minutes. The average pre-oviposition, oviposition and post-oviposition periods were 8.3, 22.4 and 9.2 days, respectively. The average fecundity was 476.4 eggs per female. The female outnumbered the males in a female biased sex ratio in nature and their sex ratio was observed to be 1: 1.6.
23783112|Norin 10 dwarfing genes, Rht1 and Rht2, have been identified in more than 250 high-yielding cultivars or lines developed at CIMMYT, Mexico and various other countries. It appears that both genes are somewhat equally distributed in the germplasm, with a slight advantage for the Rht2 gene.
90003424|Commercially grown varieties of winter wheat were evaluated for their tolerance to low-rainfall cropping environments in South Moravia (Czech Republic) with the aim to provide farmers with reliable information for variety selection. This region is specific with highly variable rainfall distribution that in most years causes strong reduction of yield, particularly on well-drained sandy soils. In the years 2006-2008 the plot trials were conducted at two sites differing significantly in water availability during vegetation period. Applying incomplete-block design the performance of more than 40 registered varieties was assessed. At site with high soil and sub-soil moisture average grain yield reached 8.7 t.ha
23787240|Wheat (Triticum spp.) is a major field crop grown worldwide. The quantity and composition of protein determine baking and nutritional properties of wheat. This study was conducted to: i) evaluate three hard red spring recombinant inbred (RI) populations (ND683/Bergen, Glupro/Keene, and Glupro/Bergen) for grain protein concentration (GPC), plant height, and days to heading; ii) examine the association of GPC with plant height and days to heading; and iii) estimate heritability of GPC in these populations. ND683 and Glupro are derived from crosses of wild Emmer (Triticum turgidum L. var. dicoccoides) in a three way combination and are high in GPC. In all the populations, mean GPC and days to heading of the RI lines was greater than the low protein parents, Bergen and Keene. In both the ND683/Bergen and Glupro/Bergen populations, mean plant height of the RI lines was significantly taller than Bergen. Correlation coefficients between GPC and other traits (plant height and days to heading) ranged from 0.28 to 0.52 (P<0.01). The heritability estimate for GPC ranged from 0.37 to 0.43 (P<0.01). Results indicate selection for high GPC in these populations should be more effective in advanced generations.
23780414|Presence of germination inhibitors in wheat bracts has been established as one of the components of resistance to pre-harvest sprouting damage in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). The present paper reports the results of effective transfer of this component present in the variety Kleiber into a prime hard quality wheat cultivar Gamut. Lines showing high degree of germination inhibition have been isolated from Kleiber  Gamut and its reciprocal cross.
90003493|Salicylic acid (SA) was an essential component of the plant resistance to pathogens and also plays an important role in mediating plant response to some abiotic stress. The possible effects of SA on the growth and catalase enzymes in white mustard seedlings under heavy metal and salt stress were studied. Experimental data were analyzed to determine the LC
90002965|Changes in the amount of metal complexing OAs were investigated in barley leaves during 300 M Cd and Ni treatment parallel with the measurement of the metal accumulation. The content of five OAs (Ox, Cit, Mal, Suc and Fum) was measured in the leaves of barley seedlings hoping to identify them as parts of nickel detoxification mechanisms. Besides a 3 fold increase of Cit and Mal, the amount of Ox and Fum increased by 5-6 fold. It was found that Ox and Fum may also take part in complexation mechanisms.
23780412|Heritabilities of grain characters associated with germinability were estimated from phenotypic analyses of the cultivars Gamut, Timgalen, Sonora 64A, Pembina and Thatcher, grown in two environments. Heritabilities of embryo maturity (basic in vivo germinability), dormancy and net germination, at monitored harvest ripeness (HR), were of medium value (0.41-0.47). Heritabilities of each of these characters, when based upon observations from single heads at harvest time, were only about half of those found for the HR results. When the results from whole-plot head-bulks were considered, heritability dropped to zero for embryo maturity and dormancy, but remained at 0.25 for net germination. Germination of unthreshed ears in a spray-bunker (rain simulator) was reduced only in dormant wheats, thereby enhancing apparent genotype differences, and heritability (0.92). Therefore, screening for low germination in such a bunker appeared to be a useful selection procedure against sprouting damage. Both base-level and sprouted-level of alpha-amylase had low heritability (0.12 and 0.13 respectively), as did bulk density (test weight) of unsprouted and sprouted grains (0.39 and 0.24 respectively). Heritability for grain appearance score was moderately high for sprouted grain (0.76), but was trivial for unsprouted grain (0.09). Heritability of the difference between these scores was moderately high (0.72). These results suggested that alpha-amylase activity may not always be useful as a selection criterion because it can have low heritability. But the sprouting damage score did appear potentially useful in selection. Test weight appeared to have little value in selection against sprouting damage. Heritabilities of other characters associated with grain development and germinability were obtained also. These included days to HR and to anthesis, flavanol concentration, graincoat redness and growth (mass). Generally, heritabilities for these were moderate to high in value. Graincoat colour and days to HR would appear to be useful concomitant selection criteria against sprouting damage, on the basis of these heritability estimates.
23786283|The pot experiment was carried out in a growth-house. The dry matter weight and nitrogen uptake was examined at suboptimum and optimum water supply. Beside control and PK-treated plants there were 6 nitrogen rates. The lowest N rate was 1.2 g and the highest 7.2 g. The increment was 1.2 g. All N treatments contained the same amounts of P and K. At suboptimum water supply the plants reached their highest dry matter yield at N2.4PK-treatment, N2.4PK-treatment, being not significantly different from N1.2PK. Higher rates of N application decreased the total dry matter and the lowest value, 57% of the maximum yield, was obtained at the highest N-rate. No generative plant parts developed in the control and PK-treatment. As a result of increasing Nrates the most pronounced dry matter decline was observed in the grain yield. At optimum water supply the highest dry matter yield was obtained also in the N2.4PK-treatment, but now being almost twice as high as in the waterstressed treatment. While in the water-stressed plants the grain yield peak was observed in the N1.2PK-treatment, at optimum water supply the plants gave the highest grain yield in the N2.4PK-treatment. The grain yield ratio of waterstressed vs. unstressed plants decreased with increasing N-rate and reached the lowest value of 35% at the highest N application rate. At suboptimum water supply the grain contained more nitrogen at a higher Ndose (N2.4PK) than we could see at the grain dry matter yield (N1.2PK). The optimum water supply modified the nitrogen content of plant parts (roots, grain,husks) since the maximum value moved toward the higher N-doses. With the exception of PK-treated plants in each treatment the nitrogen concentration was higher at water-stressed plants. At both soil moisture levels the highest nitrogen concentration was observed at the highest nitrogen rate. In all treatments the nitrogen yield was higher at optimum water supply. At the lowest nitrogen rate (N1.2PK) there was only a small difference in nitrogen content of plants between the two levels of water supply. At higher nitrogen rates the differences were much greater. There was a weaker correlation between the transpired water and the total nitrogen content of the whole plant at water-stressed plants (r=0.57***) than at those grown at optimum water supply (r=0.68***).
23783647|Triticum aestivum L. cv. 'Morocco' polyhaploids (n=3=21, ABD) were regenerated from embryos resulting from crosses with Zea mays L. population 'Pool 9A'. Embryo recovery frequencies were low when an aqueous solution of 2,4dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D, 100 mg L-1) was injected to the uppermost internode of crossed spikes ( = 12.8%) or when applying 2,4-D to individual florets (x = 2.83%). A significantly (p < 0.05) higher embryo recovery was obtained using the detached spike culture method (x = 28.7%). Plant regeneration frequencies from embryos rescued did not vary for the detached spike culture (x = 81%), tiller injection (x = 77%), and floret treatment (x = 67%) methods.
23783004|The patterns of progress of stripe rust infection were examined on 22 genotypes of barley under epiphytotic conditions to a mixture of three races, G, 19 and 57, of stripe rust in the field. There was wide variation among genotypes for both slope of infection curve and date of appearance of rust uredia. The rusting behaviour of different varieties was measured by number of days taken to reach maximum infesity of infection (DMI), infection rate (r), area under disease progress curve (ADPC) and final intensity of infection (FI). Final intensity of disease appeared to be a better criterion to select for slow rusters, as measured by ADPC. Three genotypes, P103, DL79 and C164 were relatively slow rusters and Dolma possessed vertical resistance to this pathogen.
23792280|Application of glutenin macro-polymer (GMP) gel analysis compared to conventional wheat quality indicators such as total protein content, Zeleny, and SDS sedimentation values was evaluated in quality classification of 13 Iranian wheat cultivars. The results showed no significant correlation between total protein content and breadmaking characteristics. Zeleny, SDS sedimentation and GMP tests showed significant correlation with loaf volume and bread height. GMP wet weight and small-strain deformation rheological characteristic of GMP-gel were correlated with large-strain deformation rheological properties of dough measured in Farinograph and bread quality (loaf volume and height). Significant ( < 0.01) correlation was found between rheological properties of the GMP gel and Farinograph characteristics of dough. Although GMP wet weight is regarded as a predictive measure for breadmaking quality of wheat, in the light of the results of this rather small sample set we did not find significant correlation between small-strain rheological properties of GMP-gel (storage modulus and tan ) and breadmaking characteristics.
23786187|In this research, hybrid sorghum was grown for two years by using five different sowing dates, and some important characters were then examined. Green forage yield significantly increased with early sowing. Plant hight, number of leaves and stem diameter decreased with increasing number of cuttings. In addition, green forage yield and number of tillers decreased with the number of cuttings. Total green forage yield changed from 3261.57 to 4901.07 kg/da in dryland conditions.
23792370|In Hungary, stem rust epidemics caused by Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici are rare, but due to the severity of infection the stem rust fungus can pose a great hazard to wheat production. As new virulent races can appear, it is important for breeders to know of the genetic background of the stem rust resistance in their cultivars. In this study, 220 winter wheat cultivars registered in Hungary in the past 35 years were investigated using molecular markers to determine the presence or absence and frequency of the two important stem rust resistance genes Sr31 and Sr36. The results indicated that both Sr31 and Sr36 genes are widespread in wheat cultivars registered in Hungary. Sr31 was detected in 24.1% of these wheats, and Sr36 in 15.9%. These genes occurred to a somewhat larger extent in the 156 local cultivars: one-third (32.1%) had the Sr31 and 18.0% the Sr36 gene. Of these, 2 cultivars (1.3%) had both genes (Sr31 + Sr36). Among the 64 foreign cultivars only 3 (4.7%) carried the Sr31 gene. In the foreign group, Sr36 was only detected in the seven Croatian cultivars. Tests also revealed possible false pedigrees for some cultivars. Inoculation tests showed that both genes were still effective. One-sixth (16.7%) of stem rust resistant cultivars did not carry the target genes indicating the possible presence of other efficient Sr genes. Data may help breeders to incorporate effective Sr genes into new cultivars.
23781501|Meiotic behaviour of three haploids of Triticum durum Desf. fromthe cultivars Senatore Capelli and Bidi 17 was analyzed. Metaphase I showed varietal differences attributed to chromosomal differenciation and/or to genotype. These results were also compared with those reported by other authors for similar material, demonstrating that the pairing was the expected one for an allopolyploid. A study of the cytogenetic significance of non-specific associations of univalents (e-e) and (s-s) was carried out, as well as the implications of such associations for the pairing.
90003184|To estimate fungal biomass in grains infected with
90003481|A number of abnormal environment parameters such as salinity, nutrient imbalances, heavy metal pollution etc. are collectively termed as abiotic stress factors. Application of a sheep manure compost was tested as a possible way of protection of plants from abiotic stresses caused by high heavy metal contents and nutrient imbalances. Pot experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of the compost on the growth and the stress tolerance of maize. We tried to obtain detailed information about the compost feature which increases the stress tolerance of plants on the basis of experimental data originated from the chemical analysis of the tested soil and the compost and from the carried out sorption and heavy metal leaching laboratory tests. Adsorption of extracted humiclike components of the compost on contaminated soils was studied by Langmuir-type isotherm to make clear the sorption processes of soluble organic fraction of compost in the heavy metal polluted soil. We established the effects of the applied compost on the solubility of soil pollutants by measuring the extent of salt leaching from the tested contaminated soil as well.
23780413|Starch quality of wheat and barley grown in south eastern Norway, measured by the falling number test, is mainly depending on the -amylase activity of the samples. In wheat, differences in falling number at the same -amylase activity were found. Varieties with a high dormancy index have higher falling number than non dormant varieties. The varietal difference of up to 20% according to the Norwegian price grading system.
23786981|The objective of this study was to examine the dual effects of Al3+, NO2 and Si on the growth (DW) and potassium transport of roots in a moderately Al-sensitive triticale (xTriticosecale Wittmack cv. GK Marko) and in an Al-tolerant rye (Secale cereale L. cv. GK Wibro) seedlings. Plants were grown in 0.5 mM CaSO4 solution at pH 4.1 or 6.5 with different levels of AlCl3, NaNO2 and Na2SiO3. Increased levels of Al in the solution reduced root growth in order of Al-tolerance of species (rye>triticale). Shoot growth was only moderately influenced at higher Al concentration in triticale. Si in the growth solution enabled plants to overcome Al toxicity symptoms, however, a genotypic difference was found in response of cereal species to Si applications. Triticale proved to be more sensitive to Al and Si treatments then the rye seedlings. In short-term (6h) potassium uptake experiments, Si reduced the stimulatory effect of Al on K+(86Rb) influx in roots which indicates a definite Al + Si interaction at the plant level. In case of nitrite ion alone and in Al + nitrite combinations, a striking inhibition was experienced in K+(86Rb) influx of roots in both species, which was not significantly influenced by addition of Si. K+(86Rb) efflux from roots of triticale was always higher then in case of rye. The results of short-term potassium uptake suggest that Si in combination with Al and NO2 interfere with the membrane transport processes of plants.
90003373|Tomato is one of the most extensively cultivated horticultural crops in the world. Water supply is important for yield quantity and quality. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the canopy temperature and the yield on processing tomato substances with different water supply. There were two treatments, one of them was the irrigated plant material which got 333 mm water, including the precipitation and the other was the cut off substance which means the watering was stopped at the beginning of the ripening process, there was a control as well which got 189 mm precipitation. The canopy temperature was measured row by row with a Raytek MX 4 type infrared thermometer. The stomatal conductance was measured by AP4 type porometer. There were significant differences between the control and irrigated plants according to the water supply which was formulated the canopy values. The plants with a deficient water supply were decreased the transpiration rate, therefore its cooling effect didnt show up. The permanently irrigated tomato plants yield exceeded the unirrigated ones with almost 50%. It is emerged from the study that the irrigation has a positive effect on the amount of the harvestable yield. Its came from the regression analysis that over a specific amount of water (285 mm), the ripened yield is affected negatively.
23786038|Partial nitrogen supply by biologically fixed nitrogen may well be an environment friendly and energy-saving improvement in production of cereals. Nitrogen fixing associations of various Hungarian rice cultivars were established with associative diazotrophic bacterium Azospirillum brasilense and endophytic diazotroph Herbaspirillum seropedicae. The cultivars expressed different susceptibility to accept the associations, as manifested in root and shoot growth. Established pattern of colonizing bacteria within the plantlets well correlated with the host plant responses. Growth promoting effect of A. brasilense was unambiguous while H. seropedicae elicited inconsequential plant reactions. Moreover, immobilized inoculum formula was developed in order to support protection and competitiveness of bacteria in the soil and provide agrotechnical advantages in the field.
90003006|Using the DNDC biogeochemical model we have estimated the soil emissions of greenhouse gases as CO
23782977|Cytologically verified androgenetic haploid plants were regenerated from anthers of "Sarhad Yellow", a maize variety of Pakistani origin, cultured on the modified "YP" medium of GENOVESI and COLLINS /1982/. A 14-day pretreatment of the tassels with liquid N6 medium at 8C in the dark proved to be favourable to the androgenetic callus and embryoid formation. In pretreated anther cultures the highest induction frequency was shown by uninucleate microspores synchronized before the pollen mitosis I /2.38%/.
90003278|The objectives of this study were: firstly, determine the distribution of toxigenic
23784287|Two winter wheat cultivars were used to study the effect of repeated anther cultures on in vitro androgenesis. In the experiments the first and second generations of dihaploids were studied in order to determine the effect of anther cultures and changes in the F1 populations produced between the original and dihaploid plants of the two cultivars were also investigated. The results show that repeated anther cultures do not increase the frequency of pollen embryogenesis as there was no any improvement in androgenic ability of the two dihaploid generations tested. The inclusion of dihaploid plants in crosses led to similar results. The populations gave results either identical to or poorer than those found for the F1 populations of the original plants. The poorer results were obtained when the dihaploid plant was used as the male partner.
90002685|Cadmium is very toxic for all living organisms, including plants due, among others, to the inhibition of photosynthesis and the Cd induced oxidative stress. In spite of many experiences exact molecular mechanism of Cd action and Cd inducible defence processes are not known. Therefore, we followed changes in photosynthesis under long-term Cd treatment to clarify when defence mechanisms appear and how plants acclimate to Cd stress at available Cd concentration. Experiments were performed on hydroponically cultured four-leaf poplar plants treated with 10 M Cd(NO
90002775|Rutin content analysis in the grain of buckwheat varieties (19
23782894|The grain of 5 new Triticale lines was put to grinding and baking processes. Analysis of the chemical composition of grain, flour, bran and bread were carried out. The content of main chemical components, the mineral composition of ash and an analysis of aminoacid content in the examined samples were made. Statistically significant diferences were found in the chemical composition of grain on the investigated Triticale lines. Together with a bigger total protein content, also a high content of lysine in the Triticale grain was found.
23784219|Reciprocal crosses were made between seven different hexaploid wheat varieties. F1 hybrids and their parents were grown in a semi controlled green house in a randomized block design with two replications. General and specific combining abilities and general and specific reciprocal effects were determined for sodium dodecyl sulfate sedimentation tests (SDS), percentage of grain protein, grain protein and non protein content per spike, 1000 grain weight and grain weight per spike. Genetic variability and siginificant general combining abilities were observed for all the studied traits except percentage of grain protein. Specific combining ability and heterosis in F1 hybrids when compared with the best parent presented some significant cases in all studied traits. General reciprocal effect was significant only for sodium dodecyl sedimentation (SDS) and specific reciprocal effect for SDS and 1000 grain weight. Regarding combining abilities results the cross between 'Qualital' and 'Capet' was proposed for breeding.
90003487|The technological elements of precision farming in cereal production have reached the level of its practical implication. In Hungary the expansion has begun recently, but the economic aspects of introducing this new technology have not yet been cleared exactly. The paper reports about the results of economic research projects and model calculations that  on the basis of empirical data - examine the effects of soil parameters, degree and variance of weed coverage on plant nutrition and protection costs, as well as on yield and the threshold of introducing and leaving off precision farming from economic side. Simulation model was used for analyzing the effects of abiotic elements (technology, soil, etc.) on the yield, determined also by biotic factors, and combines them with economic requirements at farm level. The model examination verifies that the lower  introducing  and upper  giving up  thresholds (bounds) criteria depend i) on the soil parameters and weed coverage and their heterogeneities and variances, ii) on the additional investment costs of new technology and iii) on the yield differences due to the nutrient supply and weed coverage of crops.
90002709|Croatian agriculture tries to follow organic movement in Europe in last 15 years due to increasing demand for healthy food related to negative externalities of industry-like production which turned public attention to organic farming. Aim of this paper was to compare conventional and organic agriculture from economic point of view and to highlight the current situation in Croatian organic agriculture as basis for founded decision making. Starting data are based on theoretical approach predicting optimal production situation and the corrected regarding to actual situation and problems in Croatian agriculture. Results of researching confirmed expectedly lower yields (15-22%), while costs were significantly higher compared to conventional agriculture. Other analysis find out that organic farmers have many problems in their management, but they are generally satisfied with their occupation. To improve situation on Croatian organic market it is necessary to improve input market, to educate public as well as farmers and to ensure better logistics between government and producers.
90003177|TR05915 is an anther culture derived doubled haploid two-row malting barley line selected from the cultivar CDC Kendall using in-vitro selection with deoxynivalenol (DON) added during the anther culture step at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Brandon, Manitoba, Canada. It was jointly developed with the Crop Development Centre, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, and will be registered for commercial production in 2009. TR05915 is similar to CDC Kendall in all traits, except that it accumulates about 25-30% less DON. Commercial acceptance of TR05915 should be facilitated since its malting quality is similar to CDC Kendall, a widely grown cultivar desired by maltsters and brewers.
90003163|Durum wheat (
23785387|About 200 field samples of naturally contaminated wheat, barley and oats were collected during two years (1994, 1995) and analyzed on trichothecene mycotoxins presence. Wheat kernels were contaminated at the average contamination level (g/kg) : DON - 51 (65% of positive samples); NIV - 55 (43%); 3-AcDON - 15 (38%); T-2 - 17 (7%) and HT-2 - 16 ( 4%). All wheat kernels with visible symptoms of scab (average 17 % of kernels infected with Fusarium) the following amounts (g/kg) of toxic metabolites were found : DON 9628; NIV 57; 3-AcDON 457; 15-AcDON 265; T-2 33; HT-2 49 (50%). Barley kernels exhibited contamination with trichothecene mycotoxins : DON 120 (91%); NIV 53 (72%); 3-AcDON 20 (19%); 15-AcDON 16 (22%); T-2 38 (62%); HT2 49 (50%), while oats with : DON 69 (79%); NIV 56 (93%); 3-AcDON 19 (50%); 15-AcDON 15 (57%); FUS-X 52 (36%); T-2 110 (50%); HT-2 192 (42%). The above result indicate on wide presence of group B trichothecenes in kernels of cereals (mainly oats) in Poland.
23783983|An optimized procedure for the delivery of DNA, which carries a plant expressible -glucouronidase (GUS), directly into intact cells of slowly growing embryogenic wheat callus cultures was developed. Maximum GUS enzymatic acivity was found in cells electroporated at 6000 Vcm-1, 25 F in the presence of 6% (v/v) glycerol and 20 to 25 % (v/v) polyethylene glycol (PEG). An electroporation buffer was formulated to circumvent arcing, substantial energy loss, and shattering of the cuvette, which takes place in low resistance media (i.e. tissue culture medium). Addition of polyethylene glycol (20 to 25 %) was shown to cause at least a two fold increase in GUS activity over the control. Added tetradecanophrobol 12, 13-acetate (TPA) (a protein kinase C (PKC) activator) had no effect on the efficiency of transient gene expression by this procedure.
23783964|This study examined the effects of changes in irradiance level and photoperiod on the duration of pre-anthesis development in three barley cultivars. The duration of the pre-anthesis period of development was compared at two photoperiods (10 and 18 h) with similar levels of daily radiation and at 18 h under differing irradiance levels. The duration of this period of two photoperiod-sensitive barley cultivars, Clipper and Galleon, was reduced by a factor of ca. 2.6 and 2.7 by the 18 h photoperiod relative in comparison to 10 h. The maximum number of spikelet primordia at the apex of the main culm was higher by a factor of 1.7 under the 10 h than the 18 h photoperiod in Clipper and Galleon. Similarly the final number of leaves on the main culm (increased by 1.6 times) and the length of the main culm (increased by a factor of 1.2) were greater under 10 h than 18 h at the same level of irradiance for Clipper and Galleon. The photoperiod-insensitive cultivar, Finlay, exhibited little response to photoperiod for both of the abovementioned characters. Under a 10 h photoperiod anthesis was delayed in all three cultivars. Further effects of irradiance and photoperiod on the durations of pre-anthesis development and plant characters are discussed.
90003246|DON production by
23784031|Laboratory reseach has indicated that grain yield loss to Russian wheat aphids (Diuraphis noxia Mordvilko) in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) can be reduced by increased levels of nitrogen fertilizer. Field application of nitrogen fertilizer, therefore, might be a useful strategy for limiting grain yield loss caused by Russian wheat aphids. To test this hypothesis, a field experiment with nitrogen fertilizer as main plot treatments and Russian wheat aphid infestation as subplot treatments was conducted. Soil tests from an established winter wheat field in early spring indicated that 78 kg ha1 nitrogen was needed to attain a potential grain yield of 4800 kg ha1. Nitrogen (liquid urea-ammonium nitrate) was then sprayed onto plants at rates of 0, 39, or 78 kg ha1. Plants were infested with Russian wheat aphids for a period of 17 days. Plants given N fertilizer had increased plant dry weight, tiller number, leaf area, leaf chlorophyll content, and grain yield compared with plants given no N fertilizer. Russian wheat aphid infestation reduced grain yield approximately 31 percent. A lack of significant interaction between nitrogen fertilizer treatment and Russian wheat aphid infestation suggests that aphid infestation affected grain yield similarly for all fertilizer treatments studied. These results indicate that application of nitrogen fertilizer to winter wheat improves grain yield performance independently of the effects of Russian wheat aphid infestation.
23785366|Ochratoxin A has been determined in the sera of healthy volunteer blood donors and ill persons. The polyclonal antibody-based ELISA technique was used for screening. Ochratoxin-A could be detected in the sera of many healthy volunteer blood donors. The rate of the ochratoxin-positive sera was high (73.74%) with about 20 % difference between blood donors and ill persons. No correlation could be detected between the serum-level of Ochratoxin A and the different types of diseases. The testing of the monoclonal antibodybased ELISA technique (Toxiklon OA enzyme immunoassay kit Agricultural Biotechnology Center, Gdll, Hungary) and confirmation of the positive samples with HPLC are in progress.
23786844|Eighteen, the most important in Poland cultivars of wheat, were tested, in 3 years field experiment (crops 1994, 1995 and 1996), on their susceptibility to head blight, yield traits reduction and moniliformin accumulation in kernels after inoculation with F. avenaceum KF 203 (ATCC 64 451) isolate. The average percentage of kernels with visible symptoms of scab (crops 1995 and 1996) was 39.2 and 84.7% while the average weight of 1000 kernels and weight of kernels per head were reduced respectively to the levels of 92.5 and 86.7; 80.5 and 42 % of control (non-inoculated) group. Moniliformin concentration in total sample of kernels was 2.1 mg/kg (both seasons). On the basis of 3 years results, concerning percentage of diseased kernels, yield reduction ans level of kernels contamination with the toxin, 3 cultivars (Liwilla Caribo and Maltanka) were found as of the lowest susceptibility to fusariosis, while 3 other (Gama, Kobra and Almari) as highly susceptible.
90002846|The Alfld 90 winter wheat variety yield and quality was evaluated during five years regarding to the precipitation (the water supply) and the average temperature of the vegetation periods. The yield and the quality varied greatly by the cropyears. Regarding to the water supply we can state that the convenient distribution of the precipitation is more important than the amount of precipitation.
23783719|Five P. recondita tritici pathotypes with virulence on wheat seedlings with the ccreal rye-dcrived gene L r 2 6, been identified in India. Virulence for Lr26 probably arose by independent mutations in pre-existing avirulent pathotypes. Nineteen wheats carlier postulated to have Lr26 were shown to carry at least one additional gene for seedling resistance. A number of wheats with Lr26 were resistant in the field despite the presence of Lr26-virulent pathotypes which were also virulent for most other widely distributed seedling resistance genes. This confirmed the presence of additional, probably adult plant, resistance genes in such wheats. Many common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars possessing an alien chromosome translocation involving the long arm of chromosome 1B and the short arm of rye (Secale cereale L.) chromosome 1R have been deployed around the world as a means of providing resistance to disease (Mettin et al., 1973; Zcller 1973). About one-third of the winter wheats cultivated in Czechoslovakia (Bartos et al., 1984) and 45 percent of spring wheat lines distributed by the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre (CIMMYT) in Mexico possess this translocation (Anonymous 1985). The IBL.IRS translocation chromosome is known to carry. Lr26 for resistance to leaf rust caused by Puccinia recondita Rob. ex Desm. f.sp.tritici Eriks. & Henn., Sr31 for resistance to stem rust (P. graminis Pers. f.sp. tritici Eriks. & Henn.), Yr9 for resistance to stripe rust (P. striiformis Westend. f.sp. tritici) and Pm8 for resistance to powdery mildew (Erysiphe graminis DC. var. tritici Marchal) (Mcttin et al., 1973; Zeller 1973). Of the four diseases, leaf rust is considered most important in India because it occurs throughout the entire country. In most regions where wheats with Lr26 have been deployed, pathotypes (or races) with matching virulence were subsequently found (Bartos et al., 1984; Schaefer and Long 1988; Long e, al., 1989). In India, some wheats with Lr26 have been released for commercial cultivation and more are in advanced stages of selection. This paper provides details of five pathotypes with virulence for Lr26. Three of these were reported earlier (Nayar et al., 1987, 1989; Prashar et al., 1990). In addition the five pathotypes were used to recognise additional genes in 19 wheats carrying Lr26.
23783988|Fourteen wheat (Triticum aestivumL.) genotypes differing in the timing of apex development were grown in drained and undrained treatments on soil prone to waterlogging. A watertable was present in the undrained treatment but not in the drained treatment. The sensitive stage of apex development in the early maturing genotypes would have taken place under waterlogged conditions, but the watertable would have receded before apex development in the later maturing genotypes. There was a significant interaction between the drainage treatment and genotype in that the earlier maturing genotypes yielded much less on the undrained treatment than did the later maturing genotypes which had similar yields on both treatments. Much of the yield reduction was associated with decreased grain number per ear.
23783934|Fertility restoration patterns of sixty hybrids involving ten diverse cytosteriles and six testers were studied. Full restoration was observed in A1, partial restoration in A2 and no restoration in A3 and G1 cytoplasmic hybrids, helped in characterizing diverse cytosteriles. The order of hybrid sterility in the diverse cytoplasms increased from A1  A2  G1  and A3.
23784272|The effects of within-row plant distribution on maize (Zea meys L.) grain yield have received little attention, and there are conflicting results. Five field experiments were conducted to estimate the impact of within-row plant distribution at the same plant density (59,500 plants/m2) on maize production in the Argentinian maize core area. Grain yields, which ranged from 4.7 to 7.16 t/ha across environments, were essentially unaffected by varying plant distribution from uniform (standard deviation of 0 cm) to nearly geometrically (standard deviation of 24.1 cm) distributed plants. Nevertheless, the lack of agreement among different studies on this issue could be due to the environmental characteristics of the experimental areas considered. A hypothesis regarding these differences is proposed.
23790308|Ten winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars were tested in randomized complete block design (RCBD) trials at one location (Osijek) for several agronomic and quality traits through six growing seasons (1996/972001/02). Data were employed to develop modeling strategy for exploring genotype by environment interaction (GEI) by using models based on information on genotypic and environmental variables. The relative size, hence importance of the GEI compared to main effects of genotypes and environments was estimated for all effects from simple additive model (genotypes, environments and residuals, last including both GEI and experimental error) while the AMMI2 model was used as a basis for comparison of the GEI patterns. The final step in modeling strategy was fitting factorial regression models to all analyzed traits using available genotypic and environmental covariates, until the best fit solution was found for each analyzed trait. Comparing the relative sizes of genotypic and GEI effects, the last one was sizeable smaller, for all traits except grain yield (GY), thousand-kernel weight (TKW), and Hagberg falling number (HFN). Fitting of genotypic and environmental covariates resulted in various solutions for different traits, most frequently employing single genotypic covariate  Glu-A1. Regardless of their relatively small size, the GEI effects in wheat quality traits can offer a better insight into fluctuations of varietal quality over a range of environmental conditions, as they can be successfully modeled using various genotypic and environmental covariates. The advantage of described approach is attainable in virtually any breeding program, because during the implementation of the program breeders routinely score for a number of genotypic and environmental variables.
23780427|An assessment of variability for pre-harvest seed dormancy was made in the F4 generation of a cross involving Shortim (a white non-dormant wheat) and Kenya 321 sib (a white wheat with a relatively high degree of dormancy). The results indicated existence of sufficient variability for dormancy up to 20 days after harvest ripeness, establishing the potential use of Kenya 32-type dormancy in a wheat breeding programme.
23787586|The bread making quality of Ethiopian cultivars was studied using 18 quality traits at low and high protein environments. Significant variatio was observed between genotypes with a broad range of milling, rheological and baking traits. Three different quality prediction models were constructed explaining 48% to 73% of the variation of mixing time and loaf volume, respectively. SDS-sedimentation alone accounted for 56% of the variation in loaf volume at the high protein environment. The variation of mixing time due to protein content alone was 37% at the low protein environment. SDS-sedimentation and mixograph mixing time were common in the three models. SDS-sedimentation, protein content and mixing time can be used as selection criteria in breeding programs where resources are limited. Hectoliter weight and grain weight also contributed to the variation of loaf volume and mixing time.
23783816|Four bread wheat genotypes from Morocco were evaluated for components of resistance to septoria tritici blotch (STB). Genotype BT93 was the most resistant genotype and had fewer lesions per gm dry weight of foliage, lower receptivity (final number of visible lesions per square centimeter of leaf tissue), reduced necrotic leaf area (as measured by relative water content and total chlorophyll content), and a longer incubation period than the other three genotypes. Thus, BT93 represents a potential source of STB resistance to wheat breeding programs.
90003220|Fusarium head blight (FHB), caused by species of the fungus Fusarium is a destructive disease of wheat (
23790069|A RFLP approach was used to investigate polymorphism of -gliadin genes in Ae. tauschii using a F 2 population from the cross of accessions AUS18913 and CPI110856. A set of 150 F 2 progenies was genotyped by acid polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (A-PAGE) and only one recombinant line of Gli-D t 1/Gli-D t T1 was observed. Twelve restriction enzymes were initially tested on genomic DNA of the two parents of which four restriction enzymes revealed polymorphism. Of these four, only Dra I was associated with the novel -gliadin gene (T 1 ) using a 1,200 bp DNA fragment of a -gliadin gene as a gene-specific probe. The -gliadin gene (T 1 ) may be of interest for further studies relating storage proteins and wheat bread-making quality.
23790301|Detection of genotypic variation in response to water stress at seedling stage could help in escalating selection intensity in breeding drought tolerant varities. Nine genotypes were tested for seedling survivability under drought stress. Four genotypes, i.e. 'Sarsabz', 'Sitta', 'Fareed' and 'FD-83', showed complete survival on resumption of irrigation after drought stress. These genotypes were late dying as they withered slowly under drought. Percent wilting and percent survival on resumption of irrigation were negatively correlated. Six genotypes were selected on the basis of seedling survivability (late and early dying) and evaluated for seedling growth response under drought. Root length and dry weight increased significantly under stress in 'Sitta', 'FD-83' and 'Fareed'. Drought stress also increased the root-to-shoot length ratio in 'FD-83' and 'Fareed'. However, seedling fresh and dry weight significantly reduced in 'Nesser' and 'Inqalab-91' under stress. In 'FD-83', seedling fresh and dry weight increased over control under stress. Results indicated that seedling survivability, root-to-shoot length ratio, root length and dry weight were most important traits for screening drought tolerance at seedling stage. On the basis of these indices, 'Sitta', 'Fareed' and 'FD-83' were classified as drought tolerant, 'Sarsabz' and 'Nesser' as moderately tolerant and 'Inqalab-91' as sensitive genotypes. Collectively, results suggested that selection by combining seedling survivability, growth response, RWC and leaf water potential can be efficiently used for rapid evaluation of drought tolerance in wheat breeding.
23783897|The popular Indian bread wheat cultivar HW 741 was improved for rust resistance by incorporating various leaf, stem and stripe rusts resistance alien genes through simple back cross method. In BC2S4 generation, the genotypes with good resistance coupled with desirable agronomic characters were constituted. An increase in grain yield/plant and 1000-grain weight in the resistant genotypes was observed.
23783664|A semi-dwarf hexaploid wheat derivative carrying the variant allele Adh-B1b was crossed to Chinese Spring ditelo-4BS. The F1 was test-crossed to the hexaploid variant or to the cultivar Rageni which carries the normal allele Adh-B1a. Analysis of test-cross progeny for cytological constitution and ADH phenotype indicated that the Adh-B1 gene is located 20.03.5 crossover units from the centromere on the short arm of chromosome 4B. The progeny of test-cross plants were screened for response to GA3 in order to distinguish between homozygous and heterozygous insensitive types. The major dwarfing gene in the variant line segregated independent of the 4B centromere as well as the Adh-B1 gene.
23785296|Changes in the respiratory pathways during germination and early seedling growth were studied in wheat (Triticum aestivum) cv. Chinese Spring under normal and NaCl-stressed conditions. The initial growth during the first 21-24 hr after imbibition showed no sensitivity to KCN, while salicylhydroxamic acid (SHAM), an inhibitor of the alternative path, almost completely inhibited growth of germinating wheat seedlings if added at any time until at least day 4. Disulfirum, a specific inhibitor of the alternative path, and propylgallate, a specific inhibitor of lipoxygenase, added for 3 days after imbibition also strongly inhibited seedling growth. KCN became inhibitory when it was applied after 24 hr. The respiratory activity measured by the rate of O2 consumption reached a peak at day 2, then decreased. The cytochrome path activity showed a continuous increase until day 2, while the alternative path activity increased dramatically between day 1 and 2. Therefore the relative contribution of the cytochrome path decreased with the concomitant increase in that of the alternative path during this stage. NaCl treatment severely inhibited growth of germinating seedlings. NaCl caused an increase in the cytochrome path activity but had no effects on the alternative path activity. These results suggested that the initial growth of germinating wheat seedlings depends essentially on the alternative path. Lipid oxidation by lypoxygenase might also play an important role. Growth depression by NaCl, however, is not directly related to respiration.
23783810|Results of wheat microfeeding experiment used as model system are reported on nutritive quality expressed in weight gain and conversion efficiency. Whole grains of bread wheat (T. aestivum) varieties, partly improved for protein (N) content without and with lysine supplement were fed as the only protein source in semi-synthetic diets. Restricted level of casein in a diet served also as control. Surplus differences in protein (N) content among selected wheat cultivars without addition of lysine were not manifested in nutritive effect, only as a trend between extremities. Lysine supplement improved the nutritive quality and the feeding parameters of each wheat diet. Responses to consumption are however not in consequent correlation with the type order of varieties according to their protein content and reflect changes from the expected nutritive responses based on their close protein content rank. In case of wheat with the highest protein content weight gain reached the level of casein feeding /!/ but its protein efficiency ratio was among the worst. The conversion of free lysine was worse than that of the organically bound one. The estimated utilization of methionine was promoted by addition of lysine. Detected nutritive responses to lysine supplement show that (bio)chemically determined N, amino acid components etc. without in vivo tests are not satisfactory parameters for selection of breeding aims in nutrient quality improvement. For the same purpose it is also proven that instead of gluten whole grain should be used.
23786265|Phenotypic variability concerning seed number per spike were determined and compared in three plant densities for DH GK Dlibb and three traditional cultivars. The results showed that the plant density had no significant effect on the variability of GK Dlibb, contrary the significant changes depending on the plant density, showed by the traditional cultivars.
90003206|The current study explores the differential transcriptome and proteome of three wheat genotypes with 75% homology in their response to a series of treatments with trichothecene producing and non-producing
23780422|About 300 wheat cultivars were tested at the "Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Trigo" (CNPT), Passo Fundo, Rio Grande do Sul State (RS) from 1975 to 1978, in order to identify their behaviour in relation to preharvest sprouting. The methodology used consisted in the placing of the spikes in a water bath, air-drying and planting them in sheets of paper towel in a similar way as for germination test. Evaluation of the material was made generally after spikes had been kept in a germinator for ten days. The material tested under Passo Fundo conditions (Southern Wheat Region) has shown low sprouting indicating the presence of cultivars that behave satisfactorily under those conditions. In 1977, results obtained have been considered high even for the cultivars that in the previous years have shown characteristics of resistance. Results obtained under the Brazilian Northern Wheat Region conditions have always been high, demonstrating that satisfactory levels of resistance have not been found yet. Segregating material, deriving from crosses with introduced sources of resistance have been screened to obtain resistance levels that are adequate to the conditions of the Northern Region.
23785271|The old Hungarian variety Bnkti 1201 possesses excellent technological quality parameters despite the fact that it bears the high molecular weight (HMW) subunits 2+12 on chromosome 1D. Lines from the Bnkti 1201 population were selected carrying different alleles at the Glu-A1 and Glu-B1 loci. The analyses of different lines indicate that the HMW glutenin subunit composition is more closely correlated with properties characteristic of protein quality than with protein quantity. In various lines of Bnkti 1201 the correlation between the HMW glutenin subunits and the quality traits was stronger if the alleles of the Glu-A1 and Glu-B1 loci were considered together.
90002716|Based on interviews with individual and corporate farmers we reviewed of the transitional measures in regard to the turnover of agricultural land over the period of up to 10 years prior to accession and the third year following enlargement.
23789923|As regards wheat varieties constituting a natural ploid series the issue of analysing diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid species is tropical since ancient varieties can play significant roles in contemporary agriculture as well. Seventeen winter wheat varieties, out of which 2 diploid varieties carried genome A, 9 diploidic types had genomes AB, two varieties had genomes AG and four varieties were hexaploid ones with genomes ABD, were analysed from the point of view of their amino acid compositions. The amino acid contents of Asp, Thr, Ser, Glu, Gly, Ala, Cys, Val, Met, Ile, Leu, Tyr, Phe, His, Lys, Arg, Pro (a total of 17) were determined in the varieties listed above. It has been found that the amino acid contents of the grains genotype AA Triticum boeticum and T. monococcum exceeded the amino acid content of T. aestivum in respect of all the amino acids analysed in this experiment, with Glu being the only exception. In comparison with the aestivum wheat, essential amino acid contents showed a similarly favourable picture in the diploidic varieties mentioned. As regards type AB tetraploid varieties excesses of 1316%, in comparison to the aestivum wheat, were found in essential amino acid contents. The amounts of non-essential amino acids in all the winter wheat varieties showed decreases irrespective of the ploid level. What concerns the total amino acid content, all the winter wheat varieties with the exception of T. monococcum (A), T. dicoccoides (AB) and T. dicoccum (AB) contained less amino acid than the aestivum wheat. All the monocarbonic acid and aromatic as well as heterocyclec amino acid contents of the wildly growing Triticum boeticum (A) and the grown Triticum monococcum (A) (with polaric, apolaric R groups, diamino radicles) exceeded the same contents of T. aestivum. The value of the monoamino-dicarbonic acid, however, was lower in our experiment.
90003420|Hop plants are very demanding as concerns sufficient amount of water, and therefore the aim of the experiments was to monitor the impact of water deficit on the exchange of gases in the juvenile hop plants. The impact of water deficit was observed in controlled greenhouse conditions where the plants of
23785250|During eight-year period treated winter wheat seed samples were analysed to study mycopopulation (9 cultivars, 4658 samples). Routine moist chamber method was used. Contamination or infection was recorded in 91.66% of examined samples. Ten fungi genera (Fusarium, Alternatia, Penicillium, Cladosporium, Aspergillus, Bipolaris, Epiccocum, Trichothecium and Rhisopus) were identified on seed samples, with average frequency ranging from 0,01 to 1,84%. Fusarium spp were the most important parasites recorded on wheat seeds, with Fusarium graminearum as the most frequent species (89.27% of all Fusarium isolates). Alternaria spp were the most important saprophytic fungi.
23786771|The influence of different cytoplasms on the response of wheat somatic cultures was studied using twelve alloplasmic lines, having the 'Siete Cerros 66' nucleus substituted into different Triticum, Aegilops, Agropyron and Haynaldia cytoplasms. Significant differences were observed in the response of the alloplasmic lines for the traits callus fresh weight, green spots initiation and shoot regeneration studied and compared with the nucleus donor variety. Alloplasmic lines having the cytoplasms of Ae. cylindrica and Ae. longissima showed a significant increase in differentiation and regeneration ability, whereas alloplasmic lines having the cytoplasms of Ag. glaucum and Ag. trichophorum were significantly lower than the control for both traits.
90002903|The participants of the Central- and Eastern European agriculture are faced by a great challenge in this years as they are to enter into competition with the producers of the European Community with their modern, substantially subsidized agriculture with significant capital adequacy in order to survive. The improvement of the production efficiency of the agricultural branch is, therefore, inevitable. Efficient mechanization is one of the means towards this aim.
90003372|The yield in grasslands is determined by the ecological conditions such as soil, climate, height above sea-level, weather but mostly the amount and distribution of precipitation. The yield can be increased by using different grassland management elements (grassland usage, fertilizing, weed control). In our experiment, two different locations with different dispersion of precipitation were examined.
90003161|The aim of the project is the detection, genetic mapping and characterization of quantitative trait loci (QTL) that confer resistance against
23787174|Brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stl, BPH) is one of the most serious pests of rice. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) analysis was performed using a population of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between the susceptible variety MH63 and the resistant accession B5. Damage scores of the parents and RILs were evaluated every five days from 12th day after infestation by the insects. Six QTLs contributing to BPH resistance were detected and mapped by using either conditional or unconditional mapping. Five BPH resistant QTLs are derived from B5, and one was derived from MH63. The contributions to BPH resistance of the QTLs displayed different dynamic curves, and most of them were active in early stage of BPH infestation. Our results are valuable to development of resistant rice variety and understanding the genetics of BPH-resistance in rice.
90002755|Precision farming  besides other aspects  enables the reduction of use of chemical substances in crop production while decreases farming risks, contributes to specific field-cropplant applications, makes production processes more plannable and increases profitability. The latter, however, can be realised on farm level only under well-determined economic conditions. The objective of the study is to examine the optimal farming size of crop producing farms, when the development of own precision farming equipment is managable and the farm can become self-financing with different production structure. The study also makes recommendations for forms of co-operation. In addition to application of hired machine work, the machine clubs, machine co-operatives can offer solutions for small-scale farms, so that similarly to precision crop production they can apply the same environmentally friendly and efficient technology in economic sense.
23789871|Contribution to yield of cereals has traditionally been studied using yield and various yield components, thus neglecting the role of other organs such as ear awns and flag leaf. here, we studied the effects of genotypes on the photosynthetic activity of the flag leaf blade and the ear awns of spring wheat. The parameters related to the photosynthetic activity were analyzed in relation to the grain yield and various yield components at maturity. In the present study, ten wheat varieties/lines were tested to find out the effects of flag leaf and ear awns detachment on grain yield. There was much genetic variability among different varieties/lines for different traits. Awns detachment exhibited less effect on yield and yield related characters as compared to flag leaf detachment, while detachment of both had more significant effects than individual treatment. Flag leaf area and some other components showed positive and significant correlation with grain yield. Which suggested that flag leaf + awns might be used a morphological marker, while selecting wheat varieties/lines for good photosynthetic activity and high yield.
23782865|Using West German and French wheat cvs in the breeding programme, lines with a very long vegetation period unsuitable for a temperate climate are obtained. The early maturing forms like Sadovo 1 frequently lack desirable traits like productive spikes, resistance to powdery mildew and the thick strong stem of the West European selection. These traits go with the longer vegetation period in the hybrid progeny which makes employing them in breeding rather difficult. However in crossing the West German cv Jubilar with the Mexican cv SW 222 the line K 609 was derived which is a form with a short stem, a shorter vegetation period, high productivity and high technological and baking qualities of the flour-hard wheat, resistant to leaf rust. From the complex hybridization of the French cv Pascal and the Bulgarian cvs Sadovo 1 and Slavianka, line K 660/3564 was derived which is also early maturing and combines high productivity with good quality and an impressive cold and drought resistance.
23783002|The influence of time and rate of N fertilizer of soft red winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em Thell) on photosynthetic area above the flag leaf node was studied. For two years the N treatments were combinations of fall (0, 11, 22, 33 and 44 kg ha and spring (0, 22, 44, 66, and 88 kg ha) N rates applied to wheat. Photosynthetic area above the flag leaf node and its components showed little response to fall N application. Increases in the fall-applied N did not result in a higher number of spikes m2. Spring N rates caused significant effects on the photosynthetic area above the flag leaf node. Flag leaf area increased both years with the increased spring N application rates. Sheath area, spike area, and photosynthetic area responded in only one year to spring N application. Specific leaf weight (SLW) showed litle response to N application. Grain yields showed little or no response to fall application. Spring N applications of 66 or 88 kg ha resulted in an increase in grain yield. Photosynthetic area above the flag leaf node was correlated with grain yield (r0.54**) for only one year. Flag leaf and sheath area were more closely associated with grain yield than spike area. Flag leaf area was highly correlated with photosynthetic area.
23786772|The presence of the Hordeum chilense Roem. et Schult. proteins in the endosperm of the tritordeums (amphiploids H. chilense x wheat) has been related to the flour quality of these cereals. The objective of this work has been to evaluate the changes in the amount of Osborne's protein fractions and its repercussion on flour quality for these amphiploids. The protein fractions were obtained from several lines of hexa- and octoploid tritordeums along with their durum and bread wheat parents, after a sequential extraction. The results indicated that although the tritordeums present higher protein contents than the wheats, the different fractions were similar to those observed in wheat. On the other hand, the hexaploid tritordeums showed higher SDS-sedimentation values for all fractions than their wheat parents. Nevertheless, the octoploid tritordeums and bread wheats presented similar values. The differences among species were not great when the quality index was used.
23786045|Four induction and six regeneration media were used to obtain haploid plants from three triticale genotypes and their F1 hybrids. The induction media which contained 2 mg/l 2,4-D (2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid) and 50 g/l sucrose plus 50 g/l maltose or 100 g/l maltose respectively were the best at inducing embryogenesis, although strong genotype differences were found. RG0 medium without hormones was found to be the most successful with respect to plantlet regeneration. No differences were observed between regeneration media with respect to the ratio of green to albino plants produced. When combined use was made of the best induction and regeneration media, the number of haploid green plants per 100 anthers plated ranged between 2.42 and 15.36. It might be concluded that a successful androgenetic response can be obtained by combining SM or M induction and RG0 regeneration media in the breeding of triticale.
23780424|The rye material we are developing with sprouting resistance derives from three different sources of germ plasm, and therefore in breeding methodology has to be handled very differently. Crosses have been made between the two well known cultivars Carstens kurz x Petkuser Normal. Mass selection of elite plants followed in F1 and inbred lines with sprouting resistance have been developed by several sib matings in the following generations. Crosses between sprouting resistant inbred lines and the resistant cultivar Otello has been made to improve our basic material. In this population, pair crosses were carried out in the early generations. A typical "pedigree method" has been used. Some of the resistant lines developed up to now show an accumulation of sprouting resistant genes. It seems the low -amylase is controlled by dominant genes. At the present time we have developed the most promising lines by this crossbreeding method. The third source of germ plasm with resistance to sprouting has been detected in the wild species Secale silvestre. New genotypes could be developed by introgressive hybridisation. After backcrossing in F1 with the inbred lines, pair crosses were carried out in B1F3. The selection work is still in progress. However, it seems some uniform progenies derived by pair crosses are promising with resistance to sprouting.
23777442|Leaf azimuths were measured in field and greenhouse plantings and with both seed and row orientation and different planting patterns. Seed orientation also oriented the first leaves on main culms but top leaves were not affected. Neither row orientation nor row spacing affected leaf azimuth. A persistant wind caused a non-random azimuth in one experiment, in both border and interior rows.
23781546|Two houndred and fifty full sib families were developed by crossing randomly selected plants in a composite, J 54. These families were grown in randomized block design with two replications. Ten random plants of each family in each replication were inoculated artificially with "O" race of H. maydis. Observations were recorded on a 1-10 scale and data were subjected to statistical analysis as suggested by Kearsey /1965/. Approximately 58.8 per cent of variation in the population seemed to be under additive genetic control. The results suggest that population can be improved by mass selection as heritability of the trait is quite high.
90003483|Oxidative stress is a major damaging mediator in plants exposed to a variety of stresses such as drought, low temperature, air polutants and chemicals including paraquat. Paraquat/methylviologen/ (MV) is widely used as nonselective contact herbicide and as crop dessicant on products. Pesticides may induce oxidative stress, leading to generation of free radicals and alternative in antioxidants, oxygen free radicals, the scavenging enzyme system and lipid peroxidation. Buckwheat is a valuable source of flavonoid of rutin.
90002832|Young plants of sugar beet, the Eln variety, exposed to progressive drying-up of soil, retained a high RWC > 80 % for a period ranging from 72 to 144 hours from interruption of irrigation. However, stomatal limitation of gas exchanges occurred in them and the photosynthesis rate (P
23786116|Owing to the significant differences in the adaptability of the Hungarian state-registered varieties, those, which can adapt well to the local conditions, should be given preference. There are several high-yielding varieties available in Hungary with excellent agronomic properties, good adaptability and satisfactory baking quality. This study was conducted to analyse the adaptability of 16 state-registered winter wheat varieties tested in the small plot trials of the National Institute for Agricultural Quality Control (NIAQC) between 1995 and 1997 based on their grain yield and wet gluten content. For the comparison of the varieties the evaluation method of Eberhart and Russel (1966) was applied as modified by Bed and Balla (1977). The qualitative stability and adaptability values of the varieties differ from the adaptability and stability values calculated from the grain yields.
23790028|Understanding the relationship between root system and yield related traits is an important objective in crop breeding programs. Canonical correlation analysis has been adopted to study the strength of association between the root morphological traits and grain yield components under low-moisture stress and well-watered conditions and to find the root morphological characters that have the largest influence on grain yield and its components under the two conditions. This study revealed that root to shoot length and weight ratios and root dry weight were had the largest effect on plant height, shoot dry weight and grain yield under well-watered condition. Under low moisture stress, maximum root length and root number were also important for improving grain yield and panicle length. The interrelationships clearly identified the importance of root to shoot length and weight ratios and root dry weight under well-watered condition. While, maximum root length and root number are a better combination under low moisture stress condition.
23785292|The aim of this work was to present an scale of measurement for appraising the progress of leaf blight of wheat (Altermaria triticimaculans) in the field. Approximately three hundred diseased leaves of wheat at the milky ripe stage from an artificially inoculated crop, were collected. Based on leaf affected area in relation to the total leaf area, a nine grade scale was propose as a rapid technique to estimate this foliar disease.
90003120|This investigation was carried out (HBLFA Raumberg  Gumpenstein) on a sandy forsetsoil with differently kind of fertilization and cutting regimes on permanent meadows. This paper focuse on influence of grassland management on plant composition with special regard to herbs. Extensive management leads to an increase in herbs. The main reason is an open sward, leading to many gaps. Fodder quality is medium in these species-poor stands. Intensive management practices leads to an increases in the proportion of grasses and several herbs which are adapted to increased management intensity. Fodder quality increases, except of a high degree of coverage by Poa trivialis. Highest plant species richness is related to moderately management practice. Species richness will decreases both extensive and intensive management in a long-term.
23780326|Intergeneric hybrids obtained in CIMMYT between some Triticeae were cytogenetically analyzed, and are discussed. A few possessed the maternal euploid composition, devoid of any detectable alien chromosomes. Other plants had the somatic counts expected from the cross-combinations. Hordeum vulgare  Triticum aestivum hybrids with a chiasmata frequency range of 2.47 to 2.63 per cell suggest homoeologous chromosome pairing. T. aestivum  Elymus giganteus had a mean of 1.2 rod bivalent formation. The H. vulgare  Elymus (S2S2H2H2H3H3, 2n=6x=42) hybrid with a lesser than expected mean chiasmata frequency (4.77) suggests an evaluation of the pairing relationships amongst the HH2H3 genomes. Backcross progenies were obtained in a few hybrids assisted by post-pollination gibberellic acid (75 ppm) application.
23784025|The present study investigates the effects of media on the rate of embryoid and plantlet formation from anther cultures of four different winter wheat cultivars and their F1 hybrids. Anthers from each genotype were cultured on two different media (P2 medium and MN6 medium containing either sucrose or maltose). The results showed highly significant differences between the genotypes for all traits studied. The genotype  medium interaction, however, was only significant for responding anthers and embryoid induction, but was not significant in the case of green plantlet induction. The best media for embryoid induction and plantlet regeneration were the original P2 medium (Ouyang 1986) and 190-2 medium (Zhuang and Xu 1983), respectively. The greatest mean frequencies of responding anthers and embryoid induction were observed in the cultivar 'Mv 21' and the transformed values were 7.81 and 19.40 respectively. Heterosis was observed in the hybrids investigated compared with their parents, especially, in the case of plantlet regeneration abilities. Therefore using of F1 hybrid plants as anther donors is one of the most effective methods of increasing the yield of green haploid plants. Key words: Triticum aestivum - anther culture - medium-embryoid induction plantlet induction - genotype
90003240|possible role of the fusaproliferin in plant pathology was investigated with respect to membrane potential and respiration of maize leaves. The seedlings of tolerant (Lucia) and susceptible (Pavla) to the fusaproliferin (35 ug.ml
23792279|The influence of allelic variants of HMWG and LMWG on viscoelastic properties of dough was evaluated in parents and 98 recombinant lines derived from the crosses Rebeca F2000  Verano S91 and Galvez M87  Bacanora T88. Genotypes were grown at Roque, Guanajuato during the SpringSummer of 2008. Studied traits were mixing time, mixing stability and over-mixing tolerance, general strength of the dough and tenacity/extensibility ratio. HMWG alleles 1,2*, 17 + 18 and 5 + 10 favored the quality of the dough and variants 2+12 and 7 + 9 were associated with low levels of gluten strength. A 7 + 9 allele was associated with genotypes prone to form tenacious dough. Alleles Glu-A3c, Glu-A3e, Glu-B3g and Glu-B3h from the cross Rebeca F2000  Verano S91 affected positively the quality of gluten, while allelic variants Glu-A3b, Glu-B3h and Glu-D3c in the cross Galvez M87  Bacanora T88 were associated with higher quality standards and its counterparts Glu-A3c, Glu-B3j and Glu-D3b were associated to lower quality parameters. Results also shown interaction among loci, hence breeders need to be aware not only of the effect of individual alleles but also its interaction.
90003327|In field trials, the fungicide efficacy ranged between 25.5 and 43.6%. The application of Silwet adjuvant increased the fungicide efficacy on average of all treatments by 9.55%, 24.45% and 13.03% in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. A very important finding is that at an increased efficacy of applied fungicides, the residues of these products did not increase in grain.
90002630|Precision farming  besides other aspects  enables the reduction of use of chemical substances in crop production while decreases farming risks, contributes to specific field-cropplant applications, makes production processes more plannable and increases profitability. The latter, however, can be realised on farm level only under well-determined economic conditions. The objective of the study is to examine the optimal farming size of crop producing farms, when the development of own precision farming equipment is managable and the farm can become self-financing with different production structure. The study also makes recommendations for forms of co-operation. In addition to application of hired machine work, the machine clubs, machine co-operatives can offer solutions for small-scale farms, so that similarly to precision crop production they can apply the same environmentally friendly and efficient technology in economic sense.
90002851|Polymer and composite machine elements are used more often in agricultural machines. The main advantages are: lubrication free operation meaning a method of environment protection, low weight (fuel economy and reduction of soil compression by machines) and wear resistance [1]. Generally some types of polymers are considered to be excellent anti-wear materials, but the detailed wear effects of different soils on polymers are not clarified yet. [2, 3] At our research tests we examined the abrasive wear behaviour of polymer/steel gear pairs contacting seven different soil types. The article gives a brief review about the results and conclusions.
23783837|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivar 'GK Dlibb' was improved and released in 9 years combining conventional breeding steps and plant biotechnology methods. 'GK Dlibb' is derived from a multiple cross made in 1984. After F2 selection, haploids were induced from F3 generation in anther culture. Fertile doubled haploid (DH) seeds and lines obtained via colchicine treatment were multiplied and tested further in nursery. After three years of official tests at National Institute for Agricultural Quality Control (NIAQC) for registration 'GK Dlibb' was registered and released as a winter wheat variety in Hungary. The major agronomical advantages of 'GK Dlibb' are its excellent winterhardiness, premium bread making quality and earliness. The performance of 'GK Dlibb' suggests that for breeding lines originating from DH plants may be as valuable as lines originating from traditional breeding sources.
90003179|
               
23783807|Secondary tetraploid Triticale possessing valuable properties are produced by hybridization of early, low-stemmed hexa-ploid Triticale of good fertility used as female parent and primary tetraploids as male parent. Meiosis in PMC of F1 hybrids is characterized by univalents in diakinesis and metaphase I and micronuclei in telophase II.
23786251|Sorghum plant color refers to the pigmentation in the place where plant tissue is wounded. In sorghum the three main plant colors are: red, tan, and purple. Tan plant character is critical for producing food grain quality sorghum and it has been associated with foliar disease resistance. These effects have been determined by evaluating genotypes with different genetic background. In this study, five pairs of near-isolines (three pairs of maintainer and two pairs of restorer) for red (R) and tan (T) plant color were used to produce 24 sorghum hybrids (six RxR, six RxT, six TxR and, six TxT). Those hybrids were grown during the spring seasons of 1989, 1991 and 1992 at 10 locations under dryland conditions and two locations under irrigation in Northern Tamaulipas, Mexico. A randomized complete block-design with three replications was used for each experiment. Grain yield, days to flowering, plant height, panicle length, panicle exsertion and grain moisture were recorded. A combined analysis of variance was performed, and orthogonal contrasts were used to compare each group of hybrids. Results indicated that RxR hybrid group yielded significatively more then TxT hybrids in both dryland and irrigated conditions. In dryland, hybrid groups with at least one parent carrying the red plant trait (RxR, RxT and TxR) yielded more than TxT hybrids. Furthermore, yield differences between tan and red hybrids were significantly higher under this condition. This suggested that TxT hybrids may be more susceptible to drought. TxR hybrids was the highest yielding group. Superiority of the TxR hybrids may be due to some heterotic effects associated with this combination, which enhanced their performance under dryland condition. Regarding to other characters, some significant differences among sorghum hybrids were detected but, they were not related to plant pigmentation.
23783098|Nutritive quality of bread- and durum wheat varieties with low, middle and high N-content was studied in rat feeeding experiments (Sprague Dawley CFY). The highest weight gain from wheat diets complemented uniformly by casein for sufficient protein supply was observed when rats were fed with durum wheat. Rats kept on wheat protein exclusively ensured a restricted protein level, their growth followed the order of the protein content of different groups of wheat. The protein efficiency ratio (PER value) in rats was inversely proportional to the protein content both on sufficient and restricted protein level. When wheats with high protein content are enriched with lysine rich component (for example casein) they can be used as fully nutritive foods similarly to the standard commercial ones. However, wheats of low protein content are unable to cover the protein requirements of rats even when complemented with other feed items. As compared to the well-known physical and chemical procedures, this method is much more suitable for the estimation of nutritive quality of wheat varieties and for plant breeding sesection on this basis.
23792286|Sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) is a potential raw material for production of ethanol that on blending in petrol is expected to meet the energy demand and address the environmental issues. Well-developed hybrid technology will make the crop remunerative to the farmers. Hence, gene action and best combining female and male parents for sugar yield in sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) and the association of sugar yield with other agronomic traits was studied in 171 hybrids developed by crossing 19 female parents with nine male parents in line  tester design and evaluated during both rainy and postrainy seasons of 2006. The significant differences between the seasons for all the traits suggested that these traits are greatly influenced by the environment. The lines (female parents) ICSA 38, ICSA 479, ICSA 702, ICSA 675 and ICSA 474 and the restorers (male parents), SSV 74 and SSV 84 combined well for sugar yield during rainy season and the lines, ICSA 702, ICSA 38 and ICSA 474 and the restorers, ICSV 93046, SPV 1411 and ICSV 700 combined well during postrainy season. The magnitude of SCA variance was higher suggesting the importance of non-additive gene action in inheritance of all the traits though both additive and dominant genes controlled overall sugar yield during both the seasons. Hence, selection in early generation would be ineffective and recurrent selection with periodic intercrossing is advocated. However, breeding good combining restorer parents can fetch high sugar yield in postrainy season. There is an indication of existence of transgressive segregation for sugar yield that can be exploited. The sugar yield was weak though significantly correlated with high brix and poor grain yield during both the seasons requiring extensive crossing to improve these traits simultaneously. Keeping in view mean performance, SCA effects and heterobeltiosis, the hybrids, ICSA 474  SSV 84, ICSA 24001  ICSR 93046 and ICSA 474  SPV 422 were identified promising for rainy season and the hybrids ICSA 24001  SPV 1411 and ICSA 511  ICSV 93046 were identified for postrainy season.
23788180|Wheat production is limited primarily by water deficiency. The challenge of our days is to increase production with less water by promoting biological basis of drought tolerance and higher water use efficiency (WUE). Eight genotypes were examined to make comparison of their response to drought. The plants were grown in pots filled with 8.5 kg soil. The drought stress was started at the mid-flowering stage (Zadoks' scale: 65) and continued till maturity by adding only 50% of the water given to the control pots. Morphological and physiological characteristics known to be related to drought tolerance were examined. Duration of grain filling was shortened by 3 days in the mean of genotypes, the number of productive tillers were reduced by about 20% in case of the newly bred cultivars and 4-11% for extensive genotypes because of water deficiency. The highest root dry weight increment was measured in case of Emese (71%) and Pntlika (54%), while Cap.Des. increased it's root weight only by 24%, Yield reduction was found between 11- and 44% and was mainly due to decrease of thousand grain weight (TGW). Regarding netto photosynthetic activity, intensive cultivars had positive balance even in stress treatment, while the extensive genotypes reacted with quick closing of stomata. The genotypes with small yield decrease proved to improve their WUE to a grater extent. According to our results Pntlika and Emese proved to be drought tolerant cultivars.
90003451|The compaction of the soil basically determines its behavior. As an effect of the vertical loads, the effective stresses increasing in the soil, that cause plastic (compaction) and elastic deformations. The presentation summarizes the first measurements results but also focuses on the further applicability of CT in the other fields of agricultural engineering. The CTs working principle is based upon different X-ray absorption capability of the soil components. The CT measurement results - the HU values - depend from the density of the soil skeleton and the pore liquids, so the measured values can be converted to porosity distribution which is related to the compaction of the soil. There was a method developed to put markers (signs) into the soil samples that does not affects the deformations but which can visualize the time dependent deformation field caused by different external loads. The tests performed let us determine the evolution of compaction and the deformation characteristics of the loose, agricultural soil samples. With the CT we can analyze special processes as development of failure planes (discontinuities) and the change of the moisture content.
23783640|We studied the effects of the semidwarfing genes on accumulation and distribution of dry matter and nitrogen through a tall and semidwarf Argentinian cultivars. In two field experiments the semidwarf cultivar showed a greater grain yield than the tall one. This was attributed to its higher harvest index associated to a higher number of grains per m2. Similarly, Buck Pucara showed both a greater grain nitrogen yield and a higher nitrogen harvest index. There was no difference in grain nitrogen concentration. Most of the main differences between cultivars were defined before the anthesis stage.
23786218|The F2 progenies, from four crosses between landraces and commercial Portuguese durum wheat cultivars, were analysed by electrophoresis for storage protein composition and genetic segregation. The chromosomal location of genes was determined for gliadin and glutenin allelic variations at the Gli-A1, Glu-A3 and Glu-A1 on 1A; Gli-B1, Glu-B3, Gli-B3, Glu-B2 and Glu-B1 on 1B; Gli-A2 on 6A and Gli-B2 on 6B. The protein patterns of landraces were uncommon and four new alleles were identified at different loci in chromosome 1 and four in the chromosome 6B (Gli-B2). The presence of -gliadin bands encoded at the Gli-B2 locus was also found.
90002912|All ecosystems in the world are based on life cycles manifested in soil-plant interrelations. Plant life is determined by soil conditions and processes, however soil is also much influenced by plants. Soil-plant interrelations cover a wide range of bottom-up as well as top-down systems that may be synergistic, antagonistic, or coexistent. This paper summarizes principles of plant and soil interrelations; the processes and magnitude of some mutual impacts.
23792325|In any breeding program, it is necessary to screen and identify phenotypically stable genotypes that could perform uniformly under different environmental conditions. Such a breeding effort requires basic information of genotype x environment (G x E) interaction. Twenty genotypes including hybrids and aromatic rice were evaluated in 8 environments in two production systems viz; System of Rice Intensification (SRI) and normal cultivation environments during kharif season (MayOctober) 2009. The experiment was laid down in RBD with two replications in a plot of 1 m 2 . Pooled analysis for G x E interaction and stability revealed that the genotypes and environments were highly significant (p < 0.01) for all twelve characters studied. The G x E interaction was significant for six traits including all key components of SRI except tillers no. Both linear and non-linear components contributed towards G x E interaction. Stability parameters identified genotypes PR-114 and HKR-47 as stable for grain yield per plant and HKR-127, HKR-120, CSR-30, Pusa-1121 and IR-64 for test grain weight. Genotypes identified suitable for favourable environments were HKR-126, HSD-1, PAU-201 and Govind while for unfacourable environment were HSD-1, HKRH-1094, HKR-48 and PAU-201 for different traits. IR 64 and Pusa 1121 registered 24.31 and 12.54% increase in yield in SRI over normal production system. These genotypes need to be tested in macro environments over space and time and could be utilized for direct cultivation as well as for improvements of other cultivars.
90003367|The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of water stress (precipitation), under rain fed conditions, on the main components of maize grown for bioethanol production. Yield, starch content and starch yield per hectare of maize hybrids were investigated in a droughty (2007) and in a favourable year with optimal weather conditions (2008). This study was conducted at the Ltkp Experimental Station of the Centre for Agricultural Sciences and Engineering, Debrecen University. The investigations were part of a multi-factorial long-term field experiment. The starch content was determined by a Foss Infratec
23786150|Early maturity is an important trait for barley grown in northern latitudes, where crop loss may occur with the onset on inclement autumn weather. Early maturity, however, is associated with reduced grain yield. A better understanding of the relationships between developmental traits and grain yield would enable breeders to select for lines having growth patterns that optimize the conflicting requirements of high grain yield and early maturity. Thirty-three double-haploid lines and their parents from each of two barley crosses were grown at Palmer, Alaska, USA for four years. Growing degree days to maturity, grain fill period, % vegetative period, and grain yield were measured. In both crosses, high grain yield was associated with longer time to heading and longer % vegetative period. High grain yield was also associated with shorter grain fill period. Selection of lines with relatively long vegetative periods and short grain fill periods is recommended in environments similar to develop plants that will most efficiently use environmental resources to optimize higher grain yield and shorter time to maturity.
23785231|The value of durum wheats depends on their quality traits. In the present work the inheritance of some quality characters was studied in early generations of durum wheat crosses. Both positive and negative overdominance was found in the inheritance of semolina yield of hybrids in F1 generation, but in F2 and F3 generations the semolina yield of hybrids were similar to the their midparent values. Low pigment content was dominant in F1 generation, but in F2 and F3 generations the pigment content of hybrids was close to that of the midparent. Negative overdominance was observed in the wet gluten content of hybrids in F1 generation, but in F2 and F3 generations positive heterosis was generally observed. The vitreousness of grain inherited intermediately, and positive heterosis was often observed. Low protein content dominated in one hybrid, but in other combinations it showed recessive inheritance. The cooking value of pasta of hybrids (measured by aleurograph) after 15 and 30 minutes cooking time was similar to the value of the poorer parent.
90003023|The production and use of bio-fuels in Europe has been developing more seriously only just the past five to ten years. Bio-fuels are an important technology for reducing the CO
23790068|The wheat storage proteins, especially the high molecular weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS), play important roles in the determination of flour processing and bread-making quality. Compared with the traditional SDS-PAGE method, reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) was shown to have many advantages for the separation and characterization of HMW-GS because of its high resolving power, repeatability and automation. In this work, HMW-GS from bread and tetraploid wheats were separated and characterized by RP-HPLC. The elution time ranking of different HMW-GS was: 1Ax > 1Bx > 1Dx > 1By > 1Dy. Several subunit pairs associated with good quality properties and those with similar mobilities on SDS-PAGE, such as 1Bx7 and 1Bx7*, 1By8 and 1By8*, 1Dx2 and 1Ax2*, 1Bx6 and 1Bx6.1, were well separated and readily identified through RP-HPLC. However, other subunit pairs, such as 1Dy10  1Dy12, 1Dx5  1By18 and 1Dx2  1By16, could not be adequately separated and identified by RP-HPLC, whereas they displayed different mobilities on SDS-PAGE gels. Because 1Dx5 and 1Dx2 showed different hydrophobicities, RP-HPLC could distinguish 1Dx5 + 1Dy10 and 1Dx2 + 1Dy12. A comparative analysis between RP-HPLC and SDS-PAGE showed that a combination of both methods provided more effective identification of HMW-GS in wheat quality improvement and germplasm screening.
90003496|Biomass, the production of plants, is being richly reproduced all around the world. It can (also) be the renewing source of energy for the human race. An outstanding proportion of this renewable energy source can be used to replace fossil energy sources. Since our country, too, is concerned in saving up preserved energy, we have to look for new options. A perspective for this dilemma can be biomass, which produces energy through transforming cosmic energy.
23789315|In presented work, the influence of host and fungicide seed treatment on pathogenicity of 4 Fusarium species and M. nivale to wheat and barley seedlings were studied in "in vitro" conditions. The effect of Fusarium and M. nivale inoculation on coleoptile growth retardation (CGR) was analysed with respect to host and the origin of the isolates. Of F. culmorum, F. graminearum and F. poae, there is no significant influence of host (barley or wheat kernels) and isolates origin on pathogenicity of the species. Of M. nivale and F. avenaceum, the pathogenicity was significantly influenced by the host and isolates origin. F. avenaceum was more pathogenic to barley than M. nivale, on wheat opposite. The pathogenicity of tested species towards barley seeds (expressed as CGR) was assessed in downward order: F. culmorum, F. graminearum, F. avenaceum, M. nivale, F. poae. Of the wheat, the order was following: F. culmorum, F. graminearum, M. nivale, F. avenaceum, F. poae. The most aggressive pathogen towards both hosts was F. culmorum and F. graminearum. The weakest pathogen of both hosts was F. poae. The fungicide efficacy (FE) of all fungicides tested was decreased towards the species with higher pathogenicity. The higher FE in wheat than in barley was observed. The significant influence of isolates origin on FE was observed by M. nivale and F. graminearum only. The average FE of difenoconazole, tebuconazole and tebuconazole + thiram against certain Fusarium and M. nivale species decreased in following order: F. poae, F. culmorum, F. avenaceum, F. graminearum, M. nivale. The FE of quazatine was decreased as follows: F. avenaceum, F. poae, F. culmorum, F. graminearum, M. nivale. The FE of iprodione + triticonazole was estimated in downward order: F. poae, F. avenaceum, F. culmorum, M. nivale, F. graminearum. The FE of carboxin + thiram decreased in following order: F. poae, F. avenaceum, M. nivale, F. culmorum, F. graminearum. The results shoved great variation of FE depending on host and tested fungal species. There is no fungicide with universal and equal FE against all Fusarium species for seed treatment. The results highlighted the importance of selection of the most effective fungicide towards the prevalent pathogen in ecosystem or in seeds, based on laboratory myco-analysis.
90003170|The objective of this research was to compare kernel contamination by deoxynivalenol and
23787219|The three-year study was carried out on lessive pseudogleic soil in North-eastern Croatia. Effects of tillage intensity (mouldboard-, chisel plough, disk harrowing) and sulfonylurea herbicide combinations were evaluated on dry biomass of certain life cycle weed groups and on maize grain yield. Annual grass of Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) PB. was the main species in all years, with dry biomass reaching from 175 to 305 g m2. E. crus-galli biomass was significantly greater in chisel plow and disk harrowed plots than in mouldboard plow plots. No significant tillage effect was recorded for biomass of annual broad-leaved and perennial weeds. The differences in total weed biomass between mouldboard ploughing and reduced tillage practices as well between years were considerable. All herbicide combinations provided consistent biomass control of annual grass weeds (91-98%) and annual broad-leaved weeds (86-95%) but inadequate control of perennials (45-87%) on average. Nicosulfuron + 50% prosulfuron & 30% primisulfuron-methyl gave the best total weed control effect, followed by rimsulfuron + thifensulfuron-methyl and rimsulfuron + 50% prosulfuron & 30% primisulfuron-methyl without any significant effect on the yield. Maize yields were significantly affected by year and tillage. Tillage, which included mouldboard ploughing, gave significantly higher yields and showed higher resistance to weather conditions than less intensive tillage.
23783952|The crossabilities of twenty tetraploid wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum) varieties with Hordeum bulbosum L. and maize (Zea mays L.) were compared. The embryo formation frequencies had variations ranging from 0.0% to 26.3% in crosses with H. bulbosum, and 0.0% to 20.6% in crosses with maize. A significant correlation coefficient (r=0.540, P<0.05) was obtained for embryo formation frequencies between H. bulbosum and maize crosses, indicating that some genetic factor(s) controls the crossabilities in these crosses. In comparison with the results previously published on hexaploid wheat (T. aestivum L.), it is also supposed that absence of D genome in tetraploid wheat results in the crossability variation in crosses with maize.
23790055|Shifts in sowing date change the combination of temperature and photoperiod to which durum wheat is exposed, affecting crop phenology and grain yield. Three durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum) varieties were field sown at month intervals over a whole year. The number of spikelets on the main culm and the duration of the period of spikelet initiation were recorded. Grain yield, spike number, and mean kernel weight were determined, too. With all sowing dates, plants formed a spike within the main culm and reached the stage of first node detectable. Physiological maturity was achieved only for sowings performed between October and May. Grain yield was highest in November and both yield and yield components were strongly affected by sowing date. The number of spikelets ranged from 11 to 24, according to sowing date and variety. It decreased from November to May in consequence of the shorter initiation period, and we hypothesize that a 12-h-daylength or longer interrupts spikelet initiation. The decrease of spikelet number was the main determinant of yield reduction with the delay of sowing from November to March.
23789853|For six wheat varieties with different quality it was shown that GSH-dependent protein-disulphide oxidoreductase (TPDO) increases the activity to the third week after anthesis, a period of maximum synthesis of storage proteins in wheat kernels. The study revealed a correlation between TPDO activity in maturing kernels and dough stiffness. The addition of exogenous TPDO to flour significantly increased dough extensibility (from 17 to 49% for cultivars with different quality), which implies the ability of the enzyme to disrupt SS bonds in high-molecular weight gluten polymers.
23783918|The water-soluble carbohydrate concentration (WSC) of the peduncle and the penultimate internode was determined for the main stem of tall (rhtrht) and semidwarf (Rht1Rht1) 'Maringa' spring bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) under well-watered and droughted glasshouse conditions. The WSC concentration of the peduncle was greater than that of the penultimate internode in most cases. The concentration of WSC was greater in well-watered than in droughted conditions. Under well-watered conditions, the two genotypes exhibited similar patterns of WSC concentration from anthesis to 18 days post-anthesis. However, they showed contrasting patterns over the same period in droughted conditions. The specific weight of the peduncle and the penultimate internode at anthesis was negatively correlated with their WSC concentration under well-watered (0.94) and under droughted conditions (0.64).
23789844|Rye (Secale cereale) plays an important role in wheat improvement. Here we report a new triticale, named Fenzhi-1, derived from the wide cross MY11 (Triticum aestivum) x Jingzhou (Secale cereale) after the in vitro rye pollen has been irradiated by He-Ne laser. Morphologically, Fenzhi-1 is characterized by branched-spikes. Genetically, Fenzhi-1 displays stable fertility and immunity to wheat powdery mildew and stripe rust. In situ hybridization (FISH) and seed storage protein electrophoresis revealed that Fenzhi-1 is a new primary hexaploid triticale (AABBRR). The present study not only provides a new method to synthesize and artificial species, but also shows that Fenzhi-1 could be a valuable source for wheat improvement.
90002673|Our experiments was motivated by more accurate knowing of damages of corn weevil (
23784221|The effect of temperature on the SDS volume test was evaluated. In the study of a contrasted cross between a genetic resource with outstanding SDS volume and a breeding line, SDS volume and the 4 heaviest SE HPLC fractions appeared heritable, protein content heritability was low in F4 offsprings. Protein content, HMW Glutenin Glu-B1 7+8 and SE HPLC F2 were found positively related with a higher SDS volume. SDS volume could be predicted through forward regression.
90003350|Alfld 90 winter wheat variety was studied in agronomic replicated block treatments representing organic and conventional plant nutrition. Organic versions have not recieved any mineral fertilisers, while conventional blocks were supplied with identical 80 kg/ha N amounts in form of ammonium nitrate. Both variants have been simultaneously treated with foliar fertiliser substances. Treated and untreated plots were evaluated concerning plant height (cm), leaf area (cm2), ear size (cm), yield (kg/plot), germination (%), and quality parametres  farinographic value, wet gluten content (%), protein (%). The preliminary results suggest, that wheat crop performance was influenced by means of plant nutrition. Most of the parametres studied had minor alterations only, however plant height, and ear size had consequent alterations of various levels of significance. As a consequence it can be stated, that lack of nutrients should be considered as abiotic stressor to crop plants. The magnitude and the mechanism of the influencing effects need to be cleared in further experiments
90003352|The effects of different water supply cropyears (2007 year=dry, with water stress; 2008 year=optimum water supply) on the yields and agronomic traits of wheat in different crop models (crop rotation, fertilization, irrigation) were studied. In non-irrigated treatment the maximum yields of winter wheat were 5590 kg ha
90003232|A lateral-flow technique using colloidal gold-labelled monoclonal antibodies (ROSA  DON Quantitative Test) for the rapid detection of deoxynivalenol (DON) content was compared with two commonly exploited analytical methods ELISA and HPLC-UV. The grain samples of 10 winter wheat varieties, showing varying level of resistance to accumulation of DON, spray inoculated with
23786239|Microsatellites and minisatellites are the most informative molecular genetic markers and dispersed throughout the genome. Methylation of cytosine and adenine residues is associated with various biological phenomena. We show the microsatellite and minisatellite loci in rice to be methylated differentially in various rice cultivars. We propose that few of these differential methylations might be associated with the morphological variations observed in rice cultivars and wild rice species. Since microsatellites and minisatellites have been suggested to be hot spots of recombination, these methylations in general could be involved in maintaining genome stability by suppressing the high levels of recombination.
23790064|Genetic variation in Aegilops tauschii, the genome D donor of common wheat, is an important natural resource. Ae. tauschii is a stochastic steady-state genetic system of numerous small populations belonging to the two subspecies, tauschii and strangulata. The level of genetic differentiation is high; most of the genetic variation is among populations. Local populations are rather isolated and genetic drift plays an important role. Under such conditions important "new genes" are found not only in the recognized centre of Ae. tauschii genetic variability, but also in accessions collected in the parts of the species range with relatively low general levels of genetic variability. Moreover, additional collections in the regions which are already well represented in germplasm collections could also have previously unknown "new" alleles.
23786050|Wheat is predominantly grown under rainfed conditions in the subtropics where the crop growth mostly depends on stored soil moisture content. As the evaporative loss of soil moisture exceeds rainfall for several months, wheat crop suffers from moisture stress at reproductive stage. The objective of this study was to analyze the effect of water stress at reproductive stage on grain growth pattern and yield responses of wheat. Variety Kanchan was grown under well-watered conditions in two large plots (4m  5m). At heading, one plot was subjected to water stress (1/3rd moisture at field capacity), and the other one received regular irrigation. Water stress affected most of the plant characters. Only 79% of tillers of stressed plants produced ears, compared to 94% of the irrigated plants. Water stress did not affect grain setting, however, affected greatly the individual grain weight. The grain yield was reduced to 65% in the stressed plants compared to that of irrigated plants. The grain growth period was shortened from 39 days after anthesis (DAA) to 33 DAA due to the stress. The linear growth phase of grain growth was primarily affected by the stress. Water stress treatment did not influence the dynamics of grain moisture content. The smaller grain in water stressed plants was presumably due to shortened linear grain growth phase as well as slower grain growth.
23781572|The present investigation was carried out using 16 diverse lines and three promizing testers to find out the genetic architecture of harvest index and other related traits. Additive gene effects were found to be more important for grain yield per plant, biological yield, harvest index, grains per spike, tillers per plant and flag leaf area whereas spike length, spikelets per spike, grain weight per spike and 1000-grain weight were under control of non-additive gene effects. Heritability and genetic advance were observed high for yield, biological yield and harvest index. WH 147 and HD 2009 were the good general combining males and among females S 331 Nor 67 followed by Papaju were the best general combiners for most of the important traits under study. Cross Papaju  WH 147 for yield and its components while S 331 Nor 67  HD 2009 for tiller per plant and 1000-grain weight were found best on the basis of s.c.a. effects and per se performance. The implementation of results has been discussed.
23786983|Drought during flowering negatively affects both leaf physiology and grain yield in maize (Zea mays L). We found that Azospirillum brasilense BR11005 could ameliorate these effects. Hybrid DK 636 seeds were inoculated with either autoclaved (control) or living bacteria and sown in pots buried in the field. During flowering, irrigation treatments were: high (HM), medium (MM), and low (LM), corresponding to 100%, 50%, and 25% of the evapotranspirative demand, respectively. Water potential (), water content (WC), stomatal resistance, chlorophyll content, photosynthetic rate, and proline concentration were determined during the stress period. At harvest, grain number, grain weight (GW, mg grain1), grain yield (g plant 1), and harvest index (HI), were determined. After LM treatment, plants had increased stomatal resistance, and also showed pronounced reduction in , WC and chlorophyll content. These effects were weaker in plants previously inoculated with living bacteria, where a significantly higher leaf proline concentration was also evident. Moreover, GW and HI drop due to water restriction during flowering was more pronounced in controls. In short, the physiological improvement of maize plants due to Azospirillum inoculation, could account for the amelioration of the harmful effects that a water shortfall during the flowering period could cause on grain production.
90002684|Pot experiment was design to study the effect of municipal and industrial sewage sludge doses with high (6157mg kg
23790112|Ear rot of maize caused by Fusarium species results in yield decrease as well as in decrease of grain quality. Seven inbreed lines were sowing during three years (20012003) at two locations (Kutjevopseudogley, Nova Gradikaamphigley). If comparing average values of examined inbreed lines, planting years and soil types, there were significant differences in occurrence of maize ear rot caused by Fusarium species. The most tolerant lines in all the years examined on both locations were OS 89-9 and OS 8639. The least infection intensity was observed in OS 138-9 inbreed line.
23782782|Aluminum (AL) toxicity is a major constraint to rainfed wheat production in Zambia. The objective of this study was to test three wheat varieties (Triticum aestivum L.) cv. Jupateco 73, cv. Whydah, cv. B7901 and three triticale varieties (X. triticosecale) cv. Ptr 'S'  MA106, cv. UNZA T-1 and cv. Puppy - Bg1 for their reaction to Al in nutrient solutions containing 0,4, 8,12, 16 and 20 ppm Al. Increasing Al levels reduced root length but increased root number. Shoot length did not reflect differential Al tolerance in the varieties tested. Based on root length, Jupateco 73 was judged sensitive. Whydah and triticale variety UNZA-T-1 were unaffected by 4 and 8 ppm but injured at 12, 16 and 20 ppm. B7901 wheat and triticale varieties Ptr 'S' - MA106 and Puppy Bgl were unaffected at all concentrations of Al. These results agree with other reports and indicate the possibility of breeding for Al tolerance by screening genotypes. The nutrient solution method is efficient and enables rapid identification of varieties suitable for adaptation to acid soil areas where Al toxicity affects crop growth.
23788062|The purpose of this study was to examine the reductive antioxidant properties of methanol extracts of wheat grains. Three wheat varieties (GK Garaboly, GK Kalsz and GK Petur) grown in the experimental field of the Cereal Research Non-Profit Company in Szeged in the years 2001, 2002 and 2003 were investigated. Two reagents, iron(III) chloride and 2,2'-dipyridyl dissolved in absolute ethanol, were used to characterize the antioxidant effect of the methanol extract of the defatted whole grains. Fe3+ was transformed into Fe2+ by the reductive agents of the extract and a red Fe2+ complex was formed with 2,2'-dipyridyl. Colour intensity was measured spectrophotometrically and the absorbances found were converted to amounts of L-ascorbic acid (L-AS) in mg after calibration. The "reducing capacity" (RC), was introduced, i.e. the quantity of L-AS (mg) in 1000 g defatted wheat grains determined by this method. The examinations revealed that different quantities of given fertilizers did not influence the RC values for a particular variety. The fungicide-treated and control samples did not display characteristic differences in RC value for the same variety. The different varieties exhibited different characteristic RC values. The RC values proved to be dependent on the crop year. The determination of RC values is a relatively rapid method and these values can be used as important biological characteristics of different wheat grains.
23784029|In the present paper two methods for obtaining wheat lines with translocations from T.speltoides promoting homoeologous pairing by means of genome-substituted form Avrodes have been considered. Genome-substituted form has been easily crossed with wheat and produced fertile progeny. The homoeologous pairing in hybrids between wheat and genome-substituted form was estimated by a number of multivalents in M1 cells. Meiosis in hybrids and their foregoing progeny was studied. Characteristics of some agronomic traits of obtained lines are given.
23781409|The effects of the phytohormone 2,4-D on ovule development, pollen fertility and crossability of wheat (Triticum aestivum) with Hordeum bulbosum were studied in a series of experiments. Application of 2,4-D to unfertilised ovules induced parthenocarpic seed development and increased ovule size due to cell expansion in three wheat varieties. The application of 2,4-D at rates up to 160 ppm to wheat florets did not consistently affect pollen fertility, however, treatment of the ovule with 2,4-D prior to self-fertilisation reduced subsequent seed set. The crossability of wheat cultivars that are not crossable; or poorly crossable, with Hordeum bulbosum was not enhanced by treatment of the ovules with 2,4-D prior to fertilisation.
23787141|Changes in the yield components of 35 barley varieties, which formed eight adaptation groups, were studied as a function of daylength and vernalization treatment under controlled conditions. Changes in the daylength had a significant effect on the yield components in the majority of adaptation groups, though the extent and direction of these changes varied. In spring barley groups there was an increase in plant height, number of reproductive tillers and in the thousand kernel weight, while the number of spikelets, the grain number of the main spike and the grain yield decreased as the daylength became shorter. Among the winter barley varieties, changes in daylength had a significant influence on yield components only in those groups, which were sensitive to long and/or short days. The groups sensitive to long days produced higher grain yields under long-day conditions than the insensitive group. Under short days the grain yield of groups sensitive to short days declined to a greater extent than that of the insensitive group. The effect of vernalization on the yield components depended strongly on the vernalization requirements of winter barleys. Most of the yield components of winter barleys with the highest vernalization responses were significantly influenced, with the exception of the grain number in the main spike. Changes in yield components showed specific patterns between these eight groups well corresponding to the different adaptation types determined by their heading date characteristics.
23782847|Wheat variety Frontana accessioned in India was found to possess three genes for leaf rust resistance (Lrl, Lr13 and Lr15) when seedlings were inoculated with leaf rust culture IL004-162A. Frontana accessioned in India exhibited differences with respect to Frontana accessioned in Canada for growth habit at germination, days to flower, extrusion length, number of spikelets per ear and sterile florets at base, glume color, 100 grain weight, branching of spikelets and adult plant leaf rust reaction, and one isozyme of peroxidase. These results suggest that two accessions might have orginated from the same source but are different.
23777752|Fertile and male sterile plants of six spring wheat varieties were grown at Bozeman, Montana, in 1969, to provide material for lodicule weight, length, width, and thickness measurements. Lodicules may be important in the production of hybrid wheat because they are known to be associated with flower opening at anthesis. Lodicules from sterile flowers were significantly heavier, longer, wider, and thicker than those from fertile flowers. Lodicules from emasculated fertile flowers were also heavier, wider, and thicker than those from fertile flowers. Therefore, hybrid wheat seed producers might benefit by selectively evaluating genotypes for seed set that result from lodicule growth potential.
23783747|Linkage relationship for two isoenzymatic Ioci, Aat 3 and Est 5, was investigated. Results of genetic analysis support the previous information on the localization of these loci in chromosome 3 and 1, respectively. Recombination value was estimated with responding morphological markers.
23790046|Uniformity in the height of main stem and tillers is a key factor affecting ideal plant type, a key component in super high-yielding rice breeding. An understanding of the genetic basis of the panicle layer uniformity may thus contribute to breeding varieties with good plant type and high yield. In the present study, a doubled haploid (DH) population, derived from a cross between indica rice variety Zhai-Ye-Qing 8 (ZYQ8) and japonica rice variety Jing-Xi 17 (JX17) was used to analyze quantitative trait loci (QTL) for panicle layer uniformity related traits. Six, four and three QTL were detected for the highest panicle height (HPH), lowest panicle height (LPH) and panicle layer dis-uniformity (PLD), respectively. qHPH-1-1 and qPLD-1 were located at the same interval on chromosome 1. The JX17 allele(s) of these QTL increased HPH and PLD by 2.57 and 1.26 cm, respectively. Similarly, qPLD-7 and qHPH-7 were located at the same interval on chromosome 7, where the ZYQ8 allele(s) increased HPH and PLD by 3.74 and 1.96 cm, respectively. These four QTL were unfavourable for panicle layer uniformity improvement because a decrease of the PLD was accompanied by decrease of the plant height. qPLD-6 and qLPH-6-1 were located at the same interval on chromosome 6, however here the JX17 allele(s) increased LPH, but decreased PLD, suggesting that this QTL was favourable for improvement of panicle layer uniformity. The markers identified in this study are potential for marker assisted breeding for the improvement of the panicle layer uniformity and ideal plant type.
23783911|Perennial grass species of Thinopyrum . Lve and Lophopyrum . Lve of the wheat tribe Triticeae contain a host of genes for disease resistance, and tolerance to environmental stresses and salinity. These desirable traits can be transferred into wheat by hybridization, but lack of homoeologous pairing between wheat chromosomes and grass chromosomes can prove to be a major bottleneck. However, it is possible to bring about homoeologous pairing, using appropriate genotypes of the donor species. Pairing between wheat chromosomes and alien chromosomes varies with the genotypes used to make the hybrid. Attempts aimed at effecting alien gene transfers into wheat are summarized, with special emphasis on meiotic chromosome pairing and fertility in intergeneric hybrids involving wheat.
23783958|A collection of 14 cultivars of Triticum aestivum was screened for tolerance to concentrations of 50, 100 and 150 mM NaCl. Excised mature embryos were in vitro cultured in Murashige and Skoog medium, supplemented with 30 g/L of sucrose and varying concentrations of salts. After 8 days, the cultured seedlings were evaluated for height, root length and root number. The test set showed tolerance to NaCl at concentrations of 50 mM and 100 mM. The cultivars were classified as tolerant (0-35% inhibited) and moderate tolerant (36-68% inhibited). In relation to height and root length, at 150 mM NaCl, cvs. Kharchia and Shorawaki were tolerant. NaCl did not affect root number significantly. Anions (in the presence of Na+) and cations (in the presence of Cl-) distinctly affected some parameters. For anions, either at low and at high concentrations, the ranking order of increasing inhibition was: AcO- = NO2-  SO4- > HPO4 > Cl-. For cations, the ranking order of increasing inhibition was: Mn++  Ca++ > Mg++ = K+ > Na+.
23787086|The yield response of winter wheat to water deficit was measured in the western Turkey during the 1998-1999 and 1999-2000 cropping season. Four wheat genotypes (MV17, Flamura 85, Saraybosna and Kate-A-1) were grown under five different irrigation treatments varied in amount. The amounts ranged from zero to 100 % of soil water replenishment in 25 % increments. As a result, irrigation significantly increased crop water use and therefore grain yield. When compared with the no irrigation treatment, the average grain yield increased by about 37 %, 48 %, 53 % and 66 % with the application of 25 %, 50 %, 75 % and full crop water requirement. Grain yield was linearly related to seasonal ET with a slope of 1.21 kg m3 for Flamura 85, 1.22 kg m3 for Saraybosna, 1.39 kg m3 for Kate-A-1 and 1.69 kg m3 for MV-17. The yield of MV-17, Flanura 85 and Kate-A-1 were similar to each other and higher than that of Saraybosna. The yield response factor (ky), representing relative yield decrease to relative evapotranspiration deficit, was found as 0.79, 0.74, and 0.56 for Saraybosna, MV-17, and both Flamura 85 and Kate-A-1, respectively.
90003365|To study the effect of chloride stress, and potassium and magnesium supply of soils, we set up field trials on acidic sandy soil with different fertilizers, such as potassium chloride, potassium sulphate and Patentkali (which contains both of magnesium sulphate and potassium sulphate). It was stated, that the application of the potassium chloride was ineffective on the strawberry yield. The most favourable conditions for the berry development were ensured by the joint treatments with potassium sulphate and magnesium sulphate. Nutrients applied in form of sulphate inhibited the uptake of chloride ions. It is presumable, that the decrease in the chloride ion content of plants contributed to the yield and quality increment.
23782767|Five strains of triticale, viz., Beagle, JNK 6T 192, JNK 6T 135, TL 38 and TL 54 were cytologically analysed for their chromosomal constitution, especially for presence of D genome chromosomes. Except Beagle, all the other strains were observed to have D-genome chromosomes. The presence of two D chromosomes was observed in 6T 192 and TL 54 and of four D chromosomes in JNK 6T 135 and TL 38. No relationship could be established between different genomic compositions (D-R or RR) and fertility.
23785337|Seedlings of 15 rye (Secale cereale L.) cultivars and lines were evaluated regarding the dry matter accumulation and the content of essential nutrient elements, grown in modified Hoagland nutrient solution in the phytotron of the Agricultural Research Institute in Martonvsr. Osmotic or/and nutrient stresses were imposed by applying PEG or/and 81 strength nutrient solution. This paper only discusses the effect of nutrient deficiency. The dry matter accumulation of cultivars can be evaluated according to absolute and relative quantities: the most dry matter was accumulated by the variety Lovszpatonai, but it was reduced by 47% compared to its control. On the other hand S838587 accumulated the same quantity of shoot dry matter in nutrient solution of low and normal mineral content. Decrease in the concentration of the essential nutrient elements was found in the seedlings because of the nutrient deficiency in solution. In the mean of the genotypes the greatest decrease was measured in the K2O content, that reached only the 31% of the control, while the N- and P2O5 content of the stressed plants were measured 43% and 53% respectively. The N content of roots of plants grown in nutrient solution of low mineral content in all cases exceeded the N content of shoots. In opposition, the P2O5 content of the shoots was always higher than that of the roots. There was no clear tendency in the change of K2O content of stressed plants.
23787293|Modern maize hybrids are found to have better stress tolerance and stay green longer than those available in the 80s and 90s. Physiological maturity takes place at ever lower values of grain moisture content. The lower the grain moisture content the slower the kernel filling rate. The length of the kernel filling period may thus limit further increases in grain yield. Hybrids belonging to the FAO 200500 maturity groups were studied at the same five sites over four years in order to determine whether an increase in the kernel filling rate and/or in the effective kernel filling period would allow further increases in the grain yield. The results showed an unexpectedly large variability in both the kernel filling rate and the effective kernel filling period, indicating the existence of substantial reserves. The data suggest that in a non-limited environment the effective kernel filling period could be extended to cover the whole of the time available for kernel filling. If these reserves are to be exploited, more water must be made available during kernel filling (irrigation) and/or new lines and hybrids must be selected which are not only stress-resistant, but also utilise whatever quantity of water is available more efficiently than their rivals to give higher yields.
90002929|This paper presents results of plant density and yield of maize, winter wheat, winter barley and oil seed rape grown on soil polluted with crude oil and oil solidificate. Research involves monitoring of changes in soil chemical composition. The experiment was set up in May 2006 and included seven treatments with four replicates on a total trial field area of 750 m
23785253|Potassium, sodium and sulphur content of winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. GK thalom) seedlings grown hydroponically in the presence of different concentrations of sodium nitrite and sodium sulphate at pH 6.5 were studied. The toxic effect of nitrite on the sulphur and potassium contents appeared in roots and shoots, but in roots it was more expressed. Nitrite decreased the S contents even at the highest (10 mM) sulphate concentration. The K contents steeply declined with increasing NaNO2 and Na2SO4 concentrations, while Na contents were not reduced by both anions, and increased with the increasing external Na+ amounts, the elevated Na content of shoots was definitely due to the nitrite. This Na+ accumulation in upper plant part reflects the injury of Na+-exclusion mechanism of roots.
23788066|European corn borer (ECB) flight and ecotype spread examinations were made in Hungary with the help of catching results of 44 agricultural Jermy light traps (2004). We wondered about alteration of flight types spread borderline as a function of global climate change. Catching data were evaluated by simple mathematical proportional numbers. Catching results originating from different points of the country were compared with Walter-Lieth climate diagram (2004) and Pczely's Hungarian climate districts. Latter was to reveal correlations of flight types and different climatic districts. The previously published flight alteration tendency of ECB (Keszthelyi 2003, 2004b) continued in 2004. Generation quotients proved this process too. Average generation quotient of populations in South-eastern Hungary was 6, and the top of the same rate in this district was 10,84. The earlier observed one peak flight type was replaced by two peaks flight type in North-western Hungary (average generation quotient of this district: 2,5). The 1RIN (relative individual number per one day) shows regressive tendency from South-eastern Hungary to North-western Hungary (1RIN of 1.district: 6,99; 1RIN of 4.district: 4,69; 1RIN of 10.district: 2,78), but unequivocal conclusions cannot be drawn from these values for places of ecotypes. There is no unambiguous connection between Pczely's Hungarian climate districts and spread of ECB flight types as proved by the statistical examinations.
23777612|The inheritance of the flowering-time in maize was studied in crosses of a dent inbred of long vegetation period, 200 g thousand kernel weight, and flattened ear /P1/ and a mid-early inbred popcorn of 50 g thousand kernel weight and globular ear /P2/. According to means, the range of the populations was as follows: F1  P2  B2 < F2 < F3 = = 1/2 / P1 + P2 / < B1 < P1. In early planting the F1, in late planting the P2 and B2 flowered earlier. Notwithstanding the 34 days interval between the two planting dates, flowering-time was delayed by 15.3 days, and the number of days between planting and flowering was reduced by 18.7 days. In the digenic epistasis test the mean genotype effect / m = 82.7+++ /, the additive effect / d = 7.9+++ / and the dominance effect / h = 6.9++ / proved to be significant. but the d  d /i/, d  h /j/ and h  h /1/ interactions were not significant. Only the general genotype effect was significantly influenced by the planting date / m1  m2 = = +19.5++ /. Heritability in the broad sense / $h^{2}_{b} = = W_{Y2/\bar{Y}3}$ : VF2 /, was estimated as 0.42.
23782972|Date of spike emergence was studied in F1 and F2 generations of eight wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) parent diallel cross and their reciprocals. The parental genotypes involved in the crosses represented a fairly wide range of character expression for earliness. Differences between reciprocal crosses were not evident for the expression of date of spike emergence. Means and degrees of dominance of F1 and F2 populations suggested partial dominance of earliness over lateness. The gene action governing the expression of date of spike emergence was largely additive. Evidence was obtained for non-additive gene effects in both generations for all crosses. The F1 hybrid means revealed true heterosis towards earliness. Estimates of heritability indicated that effective selection could be practiced for early wheat lines in segregating populations from crosses, which include Giza 155 and Pitic 62 genotypes.
23779255|Seeds of the disomic substitution lines Wichita5  Cheyenne 1B and Wichita5  Cheyenne 2D were analyzed to evaluate the effects of the two chromosomes on nitrogen and lysine contents. Chromosome 1B promoted a significant increase of the nitrogen percentage of the grain in Wichita but did not improve the nitrogen yield. Chromosome 2D had no effect on the lysine percentage of the grain protein of Wichita even though it caused a significant reduction of grain nitrogen percentage and grain yield which would be expected to cause an improvement of the lysine percentage in the grain protein.
90002687|Tillage, in spite of creating convenient media for cultivated plants, often causes soil structural decline and decrease of soil organic matter. In our paper we investigated the extent of soil structural modification affected by N mineral fertilizer with a wet sieving method. We observed the dispersion of the larger aggregate fractions into smaller aggregate fragments and primary particles. According to our results application of N mineral fertilizer may cause disaggregating of larger size soil units.
23786768|Anther culture efficiency is low in triticale compared to wheat, due to low levels of green plant regeneration. The aim of these experiments was to study how the plant regeneration of five hexaploid triticale varieties is influenced by different maltose concentrations in the induction medium and by the type of carbohydrate in the regeneration medium. The maltose concentration in the induction medium significantly influenced the anther culture efficiency, but the genotype and the genotype x maltose interactions were also highly significant factors. In most cases the application of 0.21 M or 0.26 M maltose resulted in higher embryo induction, while a further increase in the maltose concentration to 0.31 M had no further enhancing effect or was detrimental, with the exception of one variety, TF12. The strong genotypic effect was also pronounced in the total and green plant regeneration frequencies. The best carbohydrate source in the regeneration medium (sucrose vs. maltose) was also genotype dependent. Of the three basal regeneration media those based on 190-2 and MN6 proved to be more efficient with a strong genotype dependece, while all the triticale varieties gave the poorest results on MS-based regeneration medium. Among the triticale varieties, Moniko and TF12 possessed the highest green plant induction and showed the largest changes in this frequency as the result of different treatments, while the reactions of the other varieties, with extremely poor green plant regeneration (less than 5 green plants/100 anthers cultured), was not altered significantly.
23786985|Deoxynivalenol (DON), moniliformin (MON) and zearalenone (ZON) are the most important mycotoxins detected in Fusarium infected wheat grains in Austria. Our goal was to identify an evaluation method for Fusarium head blight (FHB) symptoms, which is closely related to the toxin content in grains of artificially inoculated wheat genotypes. In total 108 wheat lines with varying FHB resistance were treated with F. culmorum (DON producer), F. avenaceum (MON producer) or F. graminearum (ZON producer). Several FHB evaluation methods were investigated and the data were correlated with the mycotoxin content of the grains. Data on the visual scores of the FHB development in the field, percentage of Fusarium damaged kernels and specific grain weight showed acceptable correlations with the DON content (r=0.75-0.81). MON contamination was closely related to the percentage of Fusarium damaged kernels (r=0.70). No suitable method was identified to predict ZON concentrations. Only in grain samples of highly resistant genotypes consistently a low ZON content was measured.
23783751|The effect of gamma rays radiation treatment on somatic cell culture of Basmati 370 selection, an indica rice strain, was studied. Radiation treatment at different dosages was applied to the germinating embryo, callus, callus with green spots and callus with developing shoots. Results indicated: 1. induction rate of callus reduced with the increase of the radiation dosage on germinating embryos, but the influence of 2.5 KR treatment was not severe, 2. effect of radiation on redifferentiation percentage and/or green plantlets percentage from callus varied with different treatment dates as in the order of callus treatment - treatment of callus with green spots - treatment of callus with developing shoots - treatment of germinating embryo 3. irradiation of in-vitro cultures induction reduced the fertility of regenerated plants, but was able to increase their exserted stigma rate and the frequency of early-maturing variants in their progenies 4. a number of promising mutants were obtained from the progenies after invitro mutagenesis. The authors believe that the low dosage radiation treatment (2.5 - 5.00 KR) applied to callus with green spots is a method worthy of adoption in rice improvement.
23780415|The germination response of excised embryos towards externally applied catechin-tannins was determined in the offspring from a cross between a sprouting resistant and a sprouting susceptible genotype. A genetic analysis of the results revealed that the response presumably is controlled by a single, semi-dominant gene.
90003454|Using green manures is an efficient way of ensuring that the organic matter content of soils is not reduced, their nutrient management is improved, the soil is protected and the chance of the stress for the following crop is decreased. In 2007, in experiments on rusty brown forest soil in Gdll we examined the impact of phacelia, mustard, and oil seed radish on soil condition and plant. In the present paper we evaluate phenological parameters and impact on soil moisture content as well as their interaction taken as functions of sowing time, nutrient dose and impact on crops following the green manure plant. The largest amount of dry mass was measured for those plants that were sown at the end of July, provided nitrogen was supplied at the same time. For plants that were sown at the same time but received no extra nitrogen, the amount of biomass produced was significantly less. Moisture content values were significantly higher in plots where green manuring was applied and where plants were left on the surface than in those which were uncovered
23788192|In our long-term experiment the analyses of stability were conducted in one shorter (years 2001-2003) and one longer (years 1994-2003) periods by using different numbers (2-6) of varieties in each one of the periods. The results of our research proved that the method, applied can be efficiently used to analyse the environmental responses, the behaviour under varying environmental conditions of different varieties. Varieties can adapt themselves differently to favourable and unfavourable environmental conditions. In general, varieties (e.g. older varieties, like Mv 15, Mv 20, and new varieties, like Lupus, Mv Emese) that give relatively good yields under unfavourable conditions (2-3 t ha-1 environmental average) will utilise improving environmental conditions (7-8 t ha-1 environmental average) to a lesser extent and vice versa. Varieties Mv 21, GK thalom and Mv Palots (a currently cultivated variety) made good use of intensive growing conditions. The data in this paper may assist in choosing varieties best suited to the production and cultivation conditions of the production site. By applying stability analyses we proved that the stability of the control treatment was the most favourable over the investigation period, which good yield stability, however, manifested at very low yield levels. Our findings showed that under more intensive environmental conditions (7-9 t ha-1 yield level) appropriate and optimum fertilizer application was very effective and in comparison to the control treatment the yield differences between optimal fertilizer treatments were up to as much as 1-6 t ha-1. Under favourable environmental conditions the highest yields were obtained when a fertilizer ratio of N120+PK was applied. Under unfavourable conditions (these may be either or both ecological and cultivation conditions), however, only retrained, moderate fertilizer doses are recommended. Under extremely unfavourable conditions (very dry cropping year) the linear regression curves for fertilizer treatments were below those of the control treatments, which referred to yield depressions due to water deficiency.
23786176|The aim of this work was to relate the possible response of wheat seedlings to the metabolites of Fusarium culmorum with their resistance to the pathogen. We used the resistant cvs Hana (resistant), Samanta (medium resistance) and Barbara (susceptible). Seedlings were exposed to different concentrations of DON, DAS and culture filtrates of F. culmorum. Phytotoxicity was evaluated according to biomass production and level of free proline accumulation. Trichothecenes are the most potent specific inhibitors of protein synthesis known and cause free amino acids are accumulate in the tissue. Free proline was determined as indicator of this accumulation. The highest level of accumulation free proline was found in the susceptible cv. Barbara, accompanied by a reduction of biomass. Highly resistant to the toxins was the medium resistant cv. Samanta, but not cv. Hana which is most resistant to the fungus. Our results seem to support the theory that the four types of resistance (Mesterhzy 1995) to the pathogen and its toxins also apply to seedling resistance. More detailed experiments should be done to answer the question whether the toxins are not translocated into the tissue (IV. Type of tolerance) or are degraded by special gene products (III. Type of resistance).
23780336|The harvest of soft red winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em Thell) is often delayed because of unfavorable climatic conditions. The effects of delayed harvest on grain yield, test weight, and milling and baking characteristics were studied in 1974, 1975 and 1976. Three semi-dwarf cultivars were harvested at maturity and at 7-day intervals until 21-days following maturity. Grain yield for all cultivars was similarly reduced an average of 10% when harvesting was delayed 21 days over the 3-year period. Delay in harvest resulted in a decrease for percent ash content, and in an increase for pearling index. Milling characteristics of grain and flour protein, particle size index, flour yield and adjusted viscosity were not influenced by delay in harvest. Cookie diameter and top grain also did not change. Therefore, delay in harvest of soft red winter wheat has only a minor effect on over-all quality.
90002990|Alfalfa is the most important forage legume at cultivated fields. In the Republic of Croatia sown areas by alfalfa are limited primarily with soil conditions i.e. by low soil pH reactions. The aim of this study was testing of deegres of soil and germplasm influences on dry matter yield (DMY) and protein yield (PY) of alfalfa under conditions of the Eastern Croatia. The experiment was conducted on Osijek eutric cambisol (pH in KCl = 6.41) and Petrijevci loessive-pseudogley (pH in KCl = 3.88), respectively. Twelve alfalfa germplasm (eight domestic and two foreign origin; two domestic newly bred populations) were tested for two growing seasons (2002 and 2003, total 9 cuts). In the study we found for 31% lower DMY and for 43% lower PY at acid soil. Germplasm
90002629|Our objectives were to assess and rank 3 soil condition variants  root zone improving (RI), mulch leaving (ML) and minimum disturbing (MD)  suitability to soil quality improvement and demonstrate the plant responses to different soil state and find a possible relation between soil condition and plant growth under extreme climate. To rank the soil-plant interrelations twelve soil and plant factors were assessed; quality and depth of loosening state, surface protection by plants and stubble residues, soil aggregation, earthworm number, water supply in the root zone, tillage-induced C-flux, rooting depth of plants, yield, dry biomass and biomass recycling. Finally, seven fundamental requirements were selected to mitigate climate-stress and to improve plant resistance to the heat damage. A climate damage mitigation soil tillage strategy can establish a harmony between soil conservation and the demands of crop production.
23787224|We studied effect of sample size of S1 progenies of two synthetic populations of maize, 326PO1 and 316PO2, one the estimation of mean value and genetic and phenotypic variability for grain yield and grain moisture. Three sample sizes were formed at random, containing 50S1, 100S1 and 200S1 progenies per population. Progenies in one sample were randomly assigned in sets. Each set contained 25 progenies arranged in two replicates per set. Progenies were tested during 1995 in field experiments at three locations. Sample size of S1 progenies had no significant effect on the estimation of genetic and phenotypic variability for grain yield and grain moisture in the examined synthetic populations in the analysis over environments, and had significant effect within environments. In the estimate of mean value of investigated traits sample size had significant effect, over and within environments. Sample of 100S1 progenies studied in more than one environment is sufficient for reliable estimate of mean value and variability of grain yield and grain moisture in synthetic populations of maize.
23790360|An experiment was conducted for the measurement of membrane thermostability and chlorophyll fluorescence in parents and their six F 1 's at post-anthesis stage. Parents and F 1 's showed significant variation for high temperature stress tolerance in late sown conditions. Genotype PBW 435 and the cross PBW 343 x PBW 435 exhibited less relative injury and greater thermotolerance possibly through maintaining cellular membrane integrity under high temperature stress. Data based on chlorophyll fluorescence revealed reduction of mean values of all genotypes and their F 1 's for F v /F m , proportion of efficiently working Photo system II (PSII) units among the total PS II population in late sown conditons. The genotypes EIGN 8, UP 2425 and Raj 3765 and F 1 s EIGN 8 x UP 2425 and PBW 343 x WH 283 figured important for further wheat improvement progremmes.
90003413|The increase of the greenhouse gases caused by the change of climate, the rising environmental pollution and the limited sources of fossil fuels make the words countries cooperate and use renewable energy sources in a wilder field. Hungary is eager to meet the criteria in the Kyoto protocol. The usage of biomass energy has the greatest potential in Hungary.
90003263|In the period of 42 days from spike inoculation grain and glumes of three wheat cultivars were examined in 7 day intervals after independent inoculation with two, chemotypically different, isolates of
23777719|Relationships between culm yield, culm yield components and morphological characters were studied in genotypes chosen at random from the world collection. Culm yield differences between genotypes were primarily due to grain number per spikelet. Characters of the lowest of the uppermost leaves were better related to yield than the flag leaf itself. More attention should be given to the period of spike development preceding grain filling and to morphological characters related to spike development before anthesis.
90002956|The aim of this work was to screen several plant species for chromium accumulation by measuring the metal uptake capacity relation with ecophysiological functional types of plants. The main grouping factor was the index of plant water demand. Our study presents the results of the vegetation and chromium accumulation examinations performed in 1998 and 2007 in the units of a former secondary chromium contaminated sedimentation pond system of a Hungarian leather factory near town Kunszentmrton. The Cr concentration in the sediment samples was between 70-23,722 mgkg
23786886|We evaluated the susceptibility of all winter wheat cultivars in spike and seed authorised in Slovakia to the fungus F. culmorum (W.G.Smith) Sacc.. The most resistant to the head blight cvs. Hana, Blava, Ilona have been searched. Cvs. Butin, Regina, Iris and Selekta were the most susceptible ones. After seeds infection the cvs. Hana, Selekta, Kotka were the most resistant and cvs. Regia, Zdar, Barbara the most susceptible ones. In both types of testing cvs. Hana, Blava, Ilona belong to resistant cvs. while cv. Zdar was susceptible one The resistant cvs. posses the stem rust resistance genes and common ancestor Mironovsk.
23777584|A diallel cross consisting of 21 F1 hybrids from 7 selected winter wheat varieties were grown in trials at two plant densities /100 plants and 400 plants per m2/. The hybrid vigor in the field trial was compared to data from the mitochondrial complementation /MC/ test. At low plant density no significant differences were discovered between the lines with respect to the following characteristics: grain yield per plot, ear number per plant, grains per ear, grains per plant; and at high plant density, the ear number per plant. With respect to GCA no significant difference was found between high and low plant densities. The SCA-value of the separate combinations did not change significantly for half of the combinations under the influence of plant density, but did change for other half. The GCA didn't change significantly even under influence of the plant density. It is possible to draw some conclusions about the yielding ability of the combinations at low plant density. The MC-test can be used to predict the GCA for some characteristics.
90003411|
               
90003002|Laboratory and field tests were conducted to evaluate differences among red clover (
90003271|The fungal pathogen
23784217|Starting from the biological principal that maize is an allogam plant, a hypothesis can be proved: maize hybrid seed can be produced by the mutual random mating of the parental components. The mutual random mating of the parental components means that the F1 hybrid seed is not produced by the traditional methods (female and male rows with detasseling or using male sterile female) but the advantages of the mutual selective fertilisation of maize are utilised, and the inbred lines (and/or basic single crosses) are planted mixed and they are random mated vica versus. The hybrid seed produced in this way will certainly include the self-fertilised grains of the parental components as well to some percentage. On the basis of the trials up to now it seems to be easy to attain 70% (or more) cross-pollination ratio rooting in the preference between the individual genotypes. If this F1 seed, which is mixed with the seed of the self-fertilised parental components, so genetically contaminated, is planted with an increased - at least according to the ratio of contamination - seed quantity, the yield of the commercial maize producing area will be only by 3-8% less (not significant difference) than that of the 100% check according to the results of the small plot trials. This seed production method, which is cheaper and simpler than any other known seed production -methods, could be applied successfully in those developing countries, in which the conditions of the modern large farm maize production and those of modern seed production are not available.
23779347|Size of crease and the adjacent endosperm cavity as well as thickness of aleurone and subaleurone layer were examined in a number of wheats belonging to different species. All traits studied were clearly under genetic control with thickness of aleurone layer showing the smallest variability. The environmental influence will, however, always intervene and may often impair selection efficiency to considerable extent. Among the observed Triticum spp., seeds were found with their endosperm cavity filled by starch or with double aleurone or subaleurone layer. The relative proportion of embryo to endosperm varies with possibilities for selection in either direction. Carthlicum wheat has special interest due to a relatively high lysine content in the protein.
23783833|Cold treatment and three various solidified culture media were studied for their effects on callus induction, embryoid formation and plant regeneration capacity in anther culture of two winter wheat genotypes Mv 06-83 and Mv 15. Generally, cold treatment inhibited the anther response and callus productivity. It had no effect on, or slightly decreased, the androgenic response and ultimate plant regeneration frequencies. Of the two genotypes tested, Mv 06-83 had better induction capacity, but in plant regeneration Mv 15 was better. W14 culture medium appeared to be practical for plant regeneration and gave good anther induction percentage compared to the others tested. Consequently, the effectiveness of the anther culture technique can be improved by utilizing the optimal culture medium in conjunction with classical cross breeding methods combining notably responsive genotypes with cultivars of high green plant regeneration capacity.
23781346|Protein content of eleven parents and their 30 F1 hybrids were examined at two seed rates, 400 seeds/m2 and 20 seeds/m2. Higher protein contents were found at high seed rate than at low seed rate. The average protein content of the parents was higher than that of the hybrids. A superior protein line, with a per se performance of 17.2% and 15.8% at high and low seed rates respectively, proved to be the best combiner for protein content. Using this line in crossing programmes seems to be a promising way to increase the protein content in wheat.
23782758|This study was conducted to determine broad-sense heritability and expected genetic advance for cell death (senescence) in leaf midribs of maize. A study of 15 inbreds, 14 F1's and 14 F2's revealed that broad-sense heritability estimates for leaf midrib ratings for cell death ranged from 0.0 to 71.5% and from 12.9 to 69.1 % at 8 weeks and 9 weeks after planting, respectively. Expected advance for cell death rating was as high as 37.1 % of the F2 mean at 10 % selection intensity for W64A X B14A cross at 8 weeks after planting. A cyclic selection (recurrent selection) procedure might be effective for population improvement for leaf-midrib cell death. The 8th and 9th week ratings were highly correlated (r=0.98** for inbreds, 0.89** for F1's, and 0.86** for F2's) indicating that desirable plants can be identified for crossing about one week prior to flowering (8th week rating).
90003317|Experiments conducted at the Lithuanian Institute of Agriculture in 2004-2005 were designed to investigate the contamination of winter rye cv. Duoniai and triticale cv. Tornado grain with fungi of genus
23782915|To determine if centric fusion occurs between established wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) telosomes, selfed progeny from plants double monotelsomic for chromosomes 3D, 4B and 7A were examined cytologically. In the 526 offspring no monosomic plant was identified. This suggests that centric fusion can occur only when both telosomes undergo some kind of misdivision which seems to occur at a negligibly low frequency.
23789916|Wheat is an important source of staple food and has a major role at human nutrition and it is essential to know the relationships between yield and its components in wheat breeding programs. In the examined characteristics, positive and the expression significant correlation were found statistically between the flag leaf area, germination in mannitol, survival after desiccation and number of tillers per plant with grain yield. Negative and significant relationships were determined statistically between the plant height, water loss of excised leaves, root length and root depth with grain yield. Path coefficient revealed that number of tillers per plant (9.166) and root depth (0.2675) had the highest positive direct effects on grain yield. In addition water loss of excised leaves (9.057) and survival after desiccation (0.449) have highest negative direct effect on grain yield. The improvement in grain yield will be efficient if the selection is based on the number of tillers per plant, root depth and flag leaf area under drought conditions. Comparatively high genetic variability was found in grain yield, flag leaf area and tillers per plant. Number of tillers per plant had direct and marked effect and majority of the traits affected grain yield through it.
23783736|This paper summarizes the experiences gained in the past with the utilization of semi-dwarf and powdery mildew resistant mutants in conventional barley breeding. From the early 1970's different semi-dwarf sources were widely utilized in our barley breeding. As a result a considerable reduction in plant height of the breeding lines was obtained. At present, most of our breeding material is of semidwarf type. In the powdery mildew resistance breeding programmes, in addition to spontaneous resistance sources, different ml-o mutants were extensively used. In spite of the fact that ml-o resistance is considered a promising source of resistance, we found it difficult to utilize ml-o mutants in breeding. The preliminary results of a novel mutation programme to select powdery mildew partially resistant mutants as well as net blotch resistant mutants are discussed.
23787576|Temperature is a dominant factor in rice development. Various thermal time methods are a possible way to model the development, and are able to predict phenological stages such as flowering. In our studies three different bilinear models were studied concerning the predicting of duration from emergence to flowering of rice based on phenological data collected from rice experiments carried out in the Irrigation Research Institute between 1991 and 1999 with the rice variety Ringola. The advance from linear model, which is preferred in agriculture involves an upper threshold temperature as a second parameter, and describes the development rate with a constant (Method 1) and two different steepness functions of linear decrease (Method 2 and 3) above this threshold. The duration of the phenological phase showed only slight variations (coefficient of variation, CV=6.43), thus the average number of days offered an acceptable prediction. The linear method did not show a significant improvement (CV=3.96) on the level P=5%. However the three tested bilinear methods resulted in significant development (CV=2.75; 2.71 and 2.73) if adequate parameters were applied. The distribution of variation coefficients according to different parameter combinations gave information on sensitivity of methods, while the adequate parameters of lower and upper thresholds provided some hints about climatic demands of rice.
90003448|As means of agro-environmental protection are becoming more frequently used in the world, lands of organic production getting wider, demand for organic production increasing, studies and research in the field of organic production are becoming more important. The rules of organic production forbid usage of synthetic fertilizers and means of plant protection replacing them with natural means and means of biological origin. Organic farming helps to prevent soil contamination with mineral fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, however it may cause certain problems and put soil into stressful situations especially during the transitional period of organic farming. Long-term research at the centre of Agro-environmental Science, at Lithuanian University of Agriculture that stressful condition of soil during transitional period- when main indexes characterizing soil fertility keep decreasing- lasts approximately 8 months. Later on increase tendencies of those indexes are observed. This is maintained also by biological characteristics of soil. Activity of a hydrolysic ferment saccharase and urease in organic farming shows increase in speed of decomposition of hydrolysic carbohydrates and process of mineralization of organic matters intensifying in soil.
90002329|Grain protein concentration is a major factor in determining bread-making quality of wheat. We studied the effect of chromosome 7B of the high protein line F26-70 on protein content, yield and heading date, by testing 45 recombinant substitution lines derived from the cross Favorit//Favorit/F26-70(7B) in field trials, in 20052007. In 2006 and 2007 the lines were tested with and without nitrogen fertilization. Genes located on chromosome 7B of line F26-70 had significant effects on grain protein concentration and on heading date of recombinant substitution lines, but not on grain yield. In the conditions of our trials, protein content was not negatively associated with grain yield. Association of high protein content with earliness was significant in one year out of three. The interaction between RSLs and nitrogen fertilization was not significant, suggesting that the high protein gene(s) on chromosome 7B might be also useful at low nitrogen availability. Segregation of RSLs for grain protein concentration suggests a small number of genes, possibly one gene, responsible for the variation caused by chromosome 7B. We conclude that the high protein gene(s) on chromosome 7B might be potentially interesting for breeding.
23785286|The response of sixteen triticale genotypes to the anther culture induction medium composition was investigated. Two sugar versions of P2 and C17 media were tested, containing 9 % of either maltose or sucrose. Subsequently obtained embryo-like structures were regenerated on 190-2 medium. The results showed the significant differences between genotypes for all the investigated traits. Green plants were obtained at frequency ranging from 0 to 2.3 per 100 plated anthers. Maltose was superior to sucrose (on average respectively 0.69 and 0.03 green plants per 100 plated anthers). P2 with maltose yielded the highest number of green plants in more genotypes than either of remaining media. The genotype x medium, genotype x sugar and medium x sugar interaction appeared significant. Both, P2 and C17 media supplemented with maltose are advisable for triticale haploid production.
90003228|Wheat heads with symptoms of
90002848|On the experimental hop-fields in Steknk, experiments with drop irrigation were launched in the years 2005 through 2007. A virus-free Saaz, Osvalds clone 72, was chosen as the experimental plant. It is apparent from the results obtained that drop irrigation provably increases the yield of hop cones as compared with non-irrigated plants. There was an average 21 % increase of the yield over the monitored years. The content of alpha bitter acids in the irrigated plants increased by 7 % on the average as compared with the non-irrigated group of plants.
90003085|The field trial with increased rates of air-dried carbocalk (waste of Osijek Sugar Factory; 39% CaO) was conducted in autumn of 2000 on planosol in the amounts 0, 15, 30, 45 and 60 t ha
23777592|Nitrate reductase activity was monitored during the development of dwarf, semi-dwarf and normal wheat and oat cultivars grown under high and very high levels of N fertilization. Distinct yield differences were attained, along with corresponding differences in NR activity and N accumulation. Although the dwarf cultivars withstood lodging at high N rates, they were unable to utilize fully the available N. Very high N levels were detrimental to both yield and quality.
90002653|Root system size (RSS) was measured in 6 barley varieties using electrical capacitance. Estimates of RSS were taken twice during plant development: 3 tillers detectable (RSS1) and middle of heading (RSS2). The barley varieties were assessed during three years on the abice (N4901 E1636) site (CZ). Grain yield (t.ha
23785283|Nine teosinte lines were evaluated as pollen sources for haploid wheat production together with elite maize lines. Evaluation was performed based on the percentages of seed set, embryos / seed and germination. Pollinated wheat spikes were grown under two environments; as detached spike culture (SC) or on the plants (OP). The overall efficiency of OP was 5.5% higher than that of SC. However, such difference may be compensated by the elimination of labor for 2,4-D treatment in SC. No differences in seed set between the teosinte and maize lines were detected, with a mean of 80.8%, but percentage of embryos / seed varied significantly, ranging from 13.0% to 55.5%. There was also a significant difference in germination rate, ranging from 33.6% to 89.6%. Four teosinte lines showed a significantly higher efficiency of haploid production (haploid plants / 100 florets pollinated) than the best maize line, 3 of these showed an efficiency as high as 30%. It is considered that the use of the elite teosinte lines may be advantageous for producing wheat haploids, although most of the teosinte lines had the flowering, as compared with the maize lines.
23786051|By examining the data of our polyfactorial long-term experiment carried out on chernozem soil with lime deposits at the Experimental Farm of Debrecen University of Agricultural Sciences we wanted to find out that out of the three given hybrids (A,B,C) which and in what percentage we should grow in order to achieve a certain yield with the possibly lowest yield-risk. The factors were the following: three types of fertilisation (no fertilisation, 120 kg N+90 kg P2O5 +106 kg K2O/ ha, 240 kg N + 180 kg P2O5 + 212 kg K2O/ha), three soil cultivation methods (without ploughing, with spring ploughing, with autumn ploughing), four types of plant density (60, 70, 80, 90 thousand plants per ha) and two types of irrigation (irrigated and non-irrigated). The randomly arranged experiment was carried out for four years (1990-1993) and was repeated four times each year. It is a well known fact that the majority of growers try to reduce the risk of agricultural production. By using mean - variance criterion applicable for the decision-makers who are risk-averse, we have made plans which suggest that at the lower parts of the possible yield range the cultivation of hybrid B, while at higher yield levels hybrid C is recommended on a larger proportion of land (both with irrigated and non-irrigated soil cultivation methods). We are going to prove that if the decision -maker chooses the plan which promises a lower yield, instead of the one with the highest yield perspective, then with a few percentage of yield loss he can achieve a higher percentage of yield-risk decrease.
90002813|Field experiment study was conducted at the Farm of Faculty of Agriculture, Debrecen Univerisity., Hungary, to investigate the tolerance of different sugar beet genotypes to glyphosate and the effect of IAA (Indol acetic acid) as seed treated in improvement of sugar beet tolerance. A randomized complete block design in three replications was used. The main effect mean squares for herbicide and genotypes were highly significant for stand count, plant dry weight, and visual injury %. However, IAA effect was significant of plant dry weight. The soaking sugar beet seeds in IAA before glyphosate application recorded significant decrease in visible injury percentage. Regarding relative rank of several genotypes tolerance to glyphosate under treatment 1 (IAA), it could be observed that Begonia, Cesira, Belinda and Alios sugar beet genotypes gave the highest values of plant dry weight with insignificant difference untreated treatment.
23786220|Richer genetic diversities in leaf color mutations were detected in temperature-sensitive male sterile (TSGMS) line 2177S after gamma-irradiation treatment. According to temperature response, it could be classified into two types. In temperature-insensitive type, some mutations expressed during the whole growth period, some only at specific developmental stage. Further observation indicated that some mutants could be recovered to normal green, some only partly greenish. However, temperature-sensitive mutants only expressed under specific higher or lower temperatures. Biological effect analysis revealed that expression of some mutations would induce rice plant lethal. It was also observed that some exotic substances could mediate leaf color phenotype effectively. Genetic research showed that a single recessive nuclear gene controlled the leaf color phenotype. Allele test demonstrated there were richer genetic diversities in loci controlling these mutations.
90003067|The Soil Thematic Strategy of EU is seeking to
23782979|Crosses between Hordeum chilense and 6-triticale succeeded, in bringing forth 8 polyhaploid hybrid plants. Clones from three of these plants were treated with colchicine to induce chromosome doubling. Two chimeric clone plants with both polyhaploid and amphidiploid tillers were obtained from one hybrid. Cytological investigations in meiosis of the three colchicine-treated hybrids showed that the chromosome number (28 in the polyhaploid tillers; 56 in the amphidiploid tillers) was largely stable. The level of chromosome pairing in the polyhaploid metaphase I cells differed considerably between the three hybrids, with an average chiasma frequency of 0.97 resp. 1.06 Xta/PMC in two plants and 3.00 Xta/PMC in the third. The amphidiploid metaphase I cells exhibited partial failure of homologous chromosome association (2.86 I/PMC) and a very low frequency of multivalent pairing. The two chimeric clone plants with partially doubled chromosome number yielded, up to now, four seeds. Plantlets could be obtained from all caryopses.
23785246|Seventeen lines of the wheat cultivar 'Saratovskaya 29' isogenic for dominant genes marking various wheat chromosomes have been developed. The objective of the development was to introduce these genes into the corresponding monosomic lines of the cultivar. The lines are isogenic for such marker characters as hairy glume, black glume colour, elongated glume, club spike shape, pubescent auricles, red auricles, non-waxiness, purple culm, reduced height, purple pericarp. We expect to introduce some of them into the corresponding monosomic lines soon. The genes for hairy glume (Hg), black glume colour (Bg), elongated glume (Eg1), non-waxiness (Wx1I), club spike shape (C), pubescent auricles (Pa) have been introduced into the corresponding monosomic lines of 'Saratovskaya 29'. The genes for purple pericarp, Pp1, Pp2, Pp3 and for elongated glume, Eg1(P), are located on chromosomes 7B, 6A, 2A and 7AL, respectively. The introduction of other marker genes is currently at various stages of progress.
23781440|A field study on crop development, yield and light energy utilization in barley was conducted. The distribution of dry matter (DM) on different plant components was differentially maintained during crop development. A maximum percentage of root dry matter at the early stage of development was followed by a gradual decrease although the absolute values increased until anthesis. The area indices of the components were changing functions of time and none of the components assumed any steady value at any stage of development. The relative growth rate, from its maximum at the early stage of growth, had a continual departure. The net assimilation rate, calculated as a function of leaf area index (LAI), indicated an overestimation after ear emergence, while calculated as a function of total green surface area was fairly constant. This explained the post emergence photosynthetic ability of the components other than green leaves in a barley canopy. The reflection of light was almost constant and amounted to 6% for the entire growing period. The inversely related light absorption and transmission amounted to 64 and 30%, respectively, for the whole growing period. The overall gross production corresponded to 4.7% of the incident and 7.4% of the absorbed light energy, while the net top DM production and calculated respiration amounted to 55% and 45% respectively of the gross production.
23783721|Hungarian maize pathogenic potyviruses could be divided into three different serotypes. The most common isolates (Z1) were identical with maize dwarf mosaic virus (MDMV), the second (T1) with sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV). Third type of isolates (designated D1) did not react with MDMV antisera in agar gel double diffusion test. D1 isolates infected systemically the Johnsongrass (Sorghum halepense) producing white stripes on the upper leaves. Symptomatological properties of this isolate was distinct both from MDMV and SCMV. Distribution of potyviruses in Hungary was depending from the abundance of aphid vectors. Among about 25 viruses infecting the maize, only two, namely the maize dwarf mosaic potyvirus (MDMV) and the barley yellow dwarf luteovirus (BYDV) has been reported in Hungary (Szirmai and Paizsn, 1963; Szirmai, 1967). Both viruses (MDMV and BYDV) represent two groups of closely related viruses, however there no attempts were made to characterise the individual viruses in their groups. This heterogenecity of maize infecting potyviruses caused difficulties in the resistance breeding. This report gives a short summary of the main properties and distribution of different potyviruses infecting the maize in Hungary.
23780409|Detachment and drying of wheat grains has been shown by Nicholls (1979) to influence the capacity to produce -amylase in response to gibberellic acid (GA3). This paper shows that slow drying (50% water loss in 10 days) is most favourable for the establishment of -amylase synthesis potential. Rapid drying (50% water loss in 3 days) can reduce potential by 80%. This test applied to a range of varieties showed differences in their magnitude of response to GA3 and in their interaction with drying conditions. These responses can be examined in isolation from other determinants of sprouting.
23792313|The diploid wheat Triticum monococcum (2n = 2x = 14, A m A m ) constitutes an excellent and simplified model to study wheat genome expression since it has lower genome complexity compared to polyploid wheat species. The analysis of a collection of near 10,000 ESTs obtained from two libraries of T. monococcum (TM011XXX and TM043E1X) and one from T. monococcum ssp. aegilopoides (TM046E1X), lead to 2246, 1843 and 2405 unigenes, respectively. The unigenes from each library were individually analyzed through the Blast2Go interface revealing higher identity compared to EST databases. However, a low percentage of sequences showed significant similarity with Triticum databases, reflecting that several novel Triticum expressed genes have been identified in these libraries. The sequences annotation and classification under GO categories showed similar distribution for the three libraries, but differences were identified in some subcategories. When a virtual unique library was constructed including the sequences from the three libraries, seventeen genes were found to be over-expressed between reproductive and vegetative tissues and thirty-five showed genotype-specific expression. These differentially expressed genes included several regulatory proteins and some unreported sequences. Some of these differentially expressed genes were validated by qRT-PCR. The exploration for specific polymorphisms allowed the identification of several SNPs. These EST libraries constitute a valuable tool for the assessment of active metabolic pathways in vegetative and reproductive tissues in diploid wheat species. A more detailed assessment of expression profiles of genotypes with spring and winter growth habits would allow the identification of the transcriptomic strategies developed under the pressure of these antagonistic growth conditions.
23785377|Several strains of Fusarium culmorum, F. graminearum, F. moniliforme, F. tricinctum, F. roseum, F. semitectum and F. sporotrichioides were investigated on corn and rice substrate for F-2, zearalenol and T-2 toxin synthesis. Toxin production was confirmed by GLC and estimated by TCLC. Substrate didn't influence significantly recovery of the investigated mycotoxins in case of rice and corn and was about 70%. Sensitivity of TLC method is lowest for T-2 (0,05 g/spot), detection of F-2 and zearalenol could be improved with Sarudi reagent. Toxin synthesis of individual strains showed depence on substrate. Species of Fusarium produce mycotoxins known as zearalenone Mirocha et al. (1971). It is the most frequently encountered mycotoxin mycotoxin in cereal grain. Fusarium plays an important role in fungal deterioration of feed quality and in animal diseases caused by mycotoxins. Feed may often be infected by several fungi, moreover the same fungal species often produces several fusariotoxins. On the other hand T-2 toxin is one of a family of closely related compounds produced by several Fusarium species. The T-2 toxin can cause so called "mouldy corn toxicosis" of swine, symptoms of which refusal to eat, loss of weight, digestive disorders, ultimately leading to death. Zearalenol is one of the naturally occuring derivatives of zearalenone isolated from Fusarium and oestrogenic effect of it is 4-5 times higher than zearalenone. The aim of this study to investigate substrate effect on mycotoxin production Fusarium species and the detection of mycotoxins.
90002720|Rhizomania is the most prevalent and the most harmful sugar beet disease, but nowadays does not account for serious threat to production owing to the advancement in plant breeding. Investigations were carried out to determine genetic potential of fertility of tolerant hybrids on both, health soil, and soil infected with BNYVV virus. The trials were set up on Eutric Cambisols, on the plot with no BNYVV viruse detected, and on the plot infected with the virus. We used 10 tolerant and 2 sensitive hybrids during three year-investigations. On the basis of the triennial results all investigated parameters of sugar beet yield and quality on infected soil were found to be significantly higher (p<0.01) in hybrids tolerant to rhizomania relative to the sensitive hybrids. The differences between the hybrids obtained on health soil were exclusively result of genetic diversity between the hybrids.
23787274|The correct evaluation of the breadmaking quality of 1BL/1RS wheat-rye translocation lines in breeding programs requires the use of tests which are most suitable to the peculiarities of these materials. The SDS-sedimentation test, the Pelshenke index, the 10-gram mixograph and the Chopin microalveograph have been jointly used in four sets of F3-F4 lines, descending from crosses between wheat cultivars with and without the 1BL/1RS translocation. The parameter measured by the mixogram which was most positively related to dough strength was height 3 minutes after reaching the peak (H3). The values of H3 were relatively independent from quality parameters slightly influenced by the presence-absence of the translocation such as optimum mixing time and tolerance range. The predictive value of the flour quality of the Pelshenke index and SDS-sedimentation volume varied according to the genetic background. The use of the Pelshenke test in selection processes results in a lower loss of potentially good-quality genotypes. The relative independence of the values obtained in the two tests regarding protein content, recommends the use of both tests together as selection indices in early generations of 1BL/1RS materials.
23785251|Postanthesis drought stress is a persistent problem for winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) production throughout much of the Great Plains of the USA. Chemical desiccation has been proposed as a method for improving postanthesis drought stress tolerance by identifying genotypes that support grain growth from nonstructural carbohydrates stored in the stems. The objectives of this study were to define cultivar responses to different chemical desiccants and dates of desiccant application and examine grain filling and stem dry weight loss patterns to assess the suitability of chemical desiccation as a screening method for postanthesis drought stress tolerance. In the first year of the study, 10 field-grown winter wheat cultivars were subjected to chemical desiccation with 2% sodium chlorate (NaClO3), 0.15% potassium iodide (KI), and 0.30% KI at 10 and 15 days postanthesis (DPA). Chemical desiccation 10 DPA induced significantly (P0.01) greater desiccation injury (for grain yield and its components) than chemical desiccation 15 DPA. Levels of desiccation injury were similar for NaClO3 and 0.30% KI, whereas the 0.15% KI treatment did not induce yield or yield component reduction. The second year of the study included evaluation of stem and grain dry weight changes following chemical desiccation. Chemical desiccation resulted in apparent reduction in grain filling rates and increased stem dry weight losses during grain filling. Cultivars that were more tolerant of chemical desiccation demonstrated increased stem dry weight immediately after anthesis and subsequent increased rates and amounts of stem dry weight loss during grain filling.
23792337|Maize seeds from inbred line Mo17, susceptible to Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV), were investigated for SCMV seed transmission. The seed quality significantly influenced the seed transmission rate. There were more infected seedlings derived from larger seeds than smaller seeds in both golden (G) and buff (B) seed groups, the proportion of infected seedlings in G1 was similar to G2 and B1, and significantly higher than the others (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). While the proportion of SCMV seed transmission was higher in golden (3.9%) than buff seeds groups (2.3%), and there were significantly difference (P < 0.05) between the both colors seeds. However the percentage of infected seedlings was closely related to the location of seeds on ears, most infected seedlings were derived from seeds of the middle (Part III) and mid-base regions (Part IV), and the both parts (Parts III and IV) were significantly higher than that of Part I (P < 0.05). Fisher's exact test indicated that the seed quality was associated significantly with the efficiency of SCMV seed transmission.
23783646|Intergeneric hybrids were produced by reciprocal crosses between Triticum aestivum and T. turgidum and various salt tolerant accessions of Aegilops ovata, Ae. cylindrica and Ae. squarrosa. Significant variation in crossability was observed between and within the Aegilops species. Generally, accessions of Ae. ovata were easily crossed with all wheat varieties irrespective of the cross direction. Ae. squarrosa was most difficult to cross. Almost all accessions of Ae. cylindrica were crossed as the pollen parent with Chinese Spring and Durum whereas only five accessions could be crossed with Pak-81 and one with Lu-26. When Ae. cylindrica was used as female parent, only two accessions could be crossed with Chinese Spring and none with the remaining wheat varieties. The results indicated that not all identified salt tolerant accessions of Aegilops species may be amenable to hybridization for the transfer of salt tolerance to cultivated wheat.
23790370|Hybrid maize is produced using inbred lines that originate from genetically different (divergent) sources (heterotic groups). Inbred lines from at least two different sources that produce heterotic F1 progeny make up a heterotic pair. Thus far, a large number of heterotic pairs differing in their heterotic potential for grain yield and other traits have been identified. The BSSS  Lancaster heterotic pair is often used in the temperate zone to develop medium-late to late maize hybrids beloning to FAO maturity groups 500 to 700. The lines B73, Mo17 and derived lines are typical representatives of the BSSS  Lancaster heterotic pair. In order to determine the contribution of breeding to the increase of grain yield in B73  Mo17 hybrids, lines had been introduced from America (the original versions of B73 and Mo17) or developed at the Institute of Field and Vegetable Crops in Novi Sad between 1980 and 2000 and represent three different cycles of selection. B73- and Mo17-type inbreds were used to study the combining abilities for grain yield of the lines and hybrids and assess the contributions of the selection cycles to grain yield increases in the lines and hybrids. With both types of germplasm, s the lines from the third cycle of selection had the highest grain yields. Based on the coefficient of linear regression, the increase of yield in the hybrids from the third selection cycle compared with the first cycle was found to be over 124 kg cycle with B73, and 677 kg cycle with Mo17 inbreds.
90003217|A number of old Hungarian wheat varieties are maintained in the institute gene bank. The analysis of lines developed from these populations has shown that, like landraces, the old varieties were genetically heterogeneous. It has been observed that line BKT9086, developed from the variety Bnkti 1201, has
23780330|H2O2 imbibition, pricking the seedcoat, and germinating at 4C were used to increase the percent and rate of immature winter wheat seed germination. H2O2 and low temperature were more effective than pricking, and combinations were marginally better than single treatments. Seed harvested 15 days after anthesis, even with special treatment, had too little germination to be practical where the amount of seed available is a limiting factor. Seed harvested 20 days after anthesis treated with H2O2, low temperature or combinations of H2O2, pricking or low temperature germinated as fast and as much as fully mature seed.
23789892|In order to investigate the origin of two 4B-5R wheat-rye translocations a number of microsatellite markers were considered, (a) which were specific for the rye chromosome arm 5RL and (b) which should enable precise characterisation for the gene pool of a 'Cornell' wheat derivative. Seven out of eight markers revealed amplification fragments with the rye control, while the marker WMS0186 amplified only a PCR product with the appropriate chromosome arm of the wheat control. The heterogeneity of the DNA fragment patterns among five wheat-rye translocation lines confirms different wheat backgrounds of the American, Danish/UK, Hungarian, and Swedish sources of the 4B-5R translocations. The homogeneous DNA marker patterns of 'Viking-hairy neck' and 'Cornell Sel. 82al-2-4-7' are particularly clear. The corresponding molecular markers together with the cytological data, genomic in situ hybridisation, the physiological investigations, and the historical review support the hypothesis of a common origin of 'Viking-hairy neck' and 'Cornell Sel. 82al-2-4-7'. The importance of the results for practical breeding and for introgression experiments is discussed.
90002892|The formerly widespread wetland habitats and floodplain forests are in danger today, as the number of such places has been sharply decreased in the river Danube due to the lowering of the groundwater level caused by the river regulation works. The statistical multivariate data analysis of the coenological surveys that were carried out in floodplain forests  being developed on floodplain soils  in two distant parts of the Hungarian Danube section revealed that the recorded quadrates of the two islands mainly differ from each other in species composition and the ratio of their most characteristic species. According to the nature conservation assessment of the forests, the most natural plant associations of the islands are the willow gallery forests
23786242|A 291-bp DNA fragment (Zi35) was cloned by PCR amplification using partial degenerate primers from genomic DNA of Zizania latifolia (Griseb.), a wild species related to rice. Southern analysis shows that Zi35 occurs, by a dispersed pattern, in the haploid genome of Z. latifolia at a copy number of ca. 400, whereas, it is completely absent from the rice genome. It is also absent from other four major cereal species. The utility of this sequence in identifying somatic hybrids between rice and Z. latifolia was demonstrated. The sequence however did not hybridize to one of the somatic hybrids and all four rice lines known to contain small pieces of introgressed DNA fragments from Z. latifolia, suggesting that Zi35 is probably not distributed on all chromosomes of the Z. latifolia genome. Sequence analysis shows that Zi35 is most probably non-coding, and has no significant homology to known-function sequences in the databases.
23783074|4 spring and 2 winter wheat varieties were studied in fall and spring sowing in Hungary. The spring varieties planted in fall yielded about 30 % more than the spring planted ones. The most productive spring wheat varieties were Mexipak and Abu ghraib. Winter wheats in fall sown trials generally overyielded the spring wheats. The spring sown winter wheats headed imperfect and yielded nothing.
23785295|The high molecular weight (HMW) glutenin subunits from different lines of five populations of wheat landrace Barbela, collected in northeast Portugal, were fractionated by SDS-PAGE. Different populations possessed between three and five HMW glutenin subunits patterns, the most frequent being the 2*, 13+16, 2+12 and null, 13+16, 2+12 patterns. Most common subunits were 2* (Glu-A1), 13+16 (Glu-B1) and 2+12 (Glu-D1). Subunits 2+12 were the only ones observed for Glu-D1 locus. The highest genetic diversity, using the Nei index, was observed for locus Glu-A1. Quality scores ranged from 6.6 to 7.0 in the five populations studied.
90003434|Grass yield and sward compositions of rangelands are determined by soil nutrient status, summer rainfall (potential moisture deficit). There are two very important concepts of sward composition. One is that pasture composition moves toward equilibrium with the environment. The second is that botanical composition is a dependent variable and not a driving variable in the climate  soil  plant - animal system. Sward composition reflects what happening to the system. With financial support from the GAK, JUHFETA4 an experimental trial has been carried out at the grassland of AWASSI Rt. The objective was to investigate the relative effectiveness of fast-acting fertilizers and farm manure treatment to control the changes of rangeland sward composition by the effect of summer rainfall. There were control, and five fertilizer 100kg N ha
23782781|A mitotic analysis of foundation seed of the wheat variety "Las Rosas INTA" showed 27% of aneuploidy. Chromosome number ranged from 2n=39 to 2n=47, telocentrics and acrocentrics being found as well. Fifty progenies belonging to off-type plants were also checked, and 58% of them showed aneuploidy. In a control group constituted by 9 other varieties, tall ones had very low percentages of aneuploidy (0-1.7%) while semidwarf varieties had aneuploidy percentages ranging from 3 to 11. All the analyses carried out in this group were made in foundation seed provided by the breeders. The origin of aneuploidy in commercial varieties of common wheat and the reasons for its persistence over generations are discussed herein.
90003214|The objective of our investigations is to study the infection process of two
23785335|This study was conducted to determine the stability of grain yield and test weight, and the susceptibility index (S) of durum wheat under stress conditions. The genotypes were grown in replicated trials at Ceylanpinar State Farm in Southeast Anatolia under supplementery irrigation between 1992 and 1994, and in lowland and upland conditions in the Mediterranean region of Adana under rainfed conditions between 1992 and 1995. Stability parameters were estimated from the regression analysis as linear regression coefficient (bi) and coefficient of determination (r2), and from Kang's yield stability index (Ysi). Stress tolerances were estimated using stress susceptibility index (S). Genotypes evaluated in this study exhibited a wide range of stress tolerance and adaptation to stressful environments. Considerable variation in the S values of certain genotypes occurred between stress environments in this research. Stress susceptibility index (S) ranged from 0.835 to 1.243, and from 0.588 to 1.513 for grain yield and test weight, respectively. Test weight index showed greater variation than grain yield index. Differential variation among genotypes for S probably depends on heat stress and drought stress which occurred during grain filling periods. Regression coefficients ranged from 0.674 to 1.306 and from 0.574 to 1.424 for grain yield and test weight, respectively. Kang's yield stability statistic index ranged from 4 to +27 and from 6 to +28 for grain yield and test weight, respectively. Stable lines, stress-tolerant and susceptible lines were identified for use in the evaluation of stress tolerance screening techniques and of stability parameters. Based on these findings, selected lines have been chosen as valuable initial material in durum wheat breeding for stress environments.
23789875|Lanzhou Alkaline Stretched Noodles (LASN) has introduced by Meng et al. in previous research paper (2007). In order to discover the LASN specialty wheat quality requirement for allelic variations at Glu-1 of northwest China spring wheats, 2 northwest China spring wheat cultivars and 39 elite F6 breeding lines were adopted to determine the high-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GS) composition by one step one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) based on the protocol of Singh et al. (1991). The results showed that the wheat quality and LASN quality were characterised by Glu-1 alleles significantly. Glu-A1/1 correlated to high protein content and better extensibility (L) than other allelic variations. Glu-A1/1, Glu-B1/17+18 and Glu-D1/5+10 were beneficial to dough strength (W), meanwhile Glu-A1/2* and Glu-D1/5+10 were good to dough tenacity (P). Glu-D1/5+10 strongly correlated to high volume of SDS-sediment significantly. Allelic variations at Glu-A1/(1, 2*), Glu-B1/17+18 and Glu-D1/5+10 were beneficial alleles for wheat quality as well as LASN quality. However, Glu-A1/null and Glu-D1/2+12 were inferior alleles for wheat quality and LASN quality.
23782868|The gliadin component composition of different sets of cv. 'Chinese Spring' wheat aneuploids were studied as well as that of the synthetic wheat with genome formulae AAGGDD. It was shown by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAG) that gliadin of some aneuploids contains additional (AdC) components as compared to the euploid. The gliadin spectrum of synthetic wheat (AAGGDD) also contains AdC as compared to the parental species and vice versa some components found in the latter do not manifest themself in the synthetics (AbC). The data are interpreted from the point of view of gliadin-coding systems interaction in complex common wheat and synthetic wheat genomes.
90003100|Nutrient supply experiments of Jerusalem artichoke were started in 2002 in Galambos Experimental Farm of Agricultural Sciences Institut of Faculty of Agricultural, Water and Environmental Management of Tessedik Samuel College with two varieties, 15 treatments in split-split plot experiment in four repetitions, on chernoziem meadow soil The height of plants, the number of main and side shoots, the green and dry matter yield as well as the tuber yield were analyzed monthly during the growing season. The aim of this presentation is to demonstrate the influence of nutrient supply on energetically utilizable components of the Jerusalem artichoke variety Tpii korai, namely on the tuber yield, sugar content of tuber and sugar yield.
23786172|General (GCA) and specific (SCA) combining abilities for five agronomic characters of parental components produced in the hybrid rye breeding programme carried out at the Plant Breeding and Acclimatization Institute at Radzikw was assessed. Twelve restorers (R) were crossed with four male-sterile single crosses (CMS-SC) in polythene greenhouses. 48 hybrids (CMS-SC  R) were sown in a field trial (4 locations, 3 replicates, plot size - 5m2, sowing density - 320 viable kernels/m2). The following characters were assessed: grain yield, heading date, plant height, lodging, and pollen fertility. Analysis of the combining ability was carried out according to the factorial mating design (North Carolina II Design) with the computer software WAKOMBS (TP), elaborated at the Department of Cereal Plants in Krakw. A highly significant general combining ability of both males and females was found for all the characters under study. Significant specific combining ability was detected only for heading date and pollen fertility. The relative magnitude of GCA/SCA sums of square ratios suggested, that additive gene effects were more important than nonadditive gene effects in controlling all characters under study. However, significant SCA effects detected for heading date and pollen fertility also implied the contribution of nonadditive gene effects to the variation. The results indicated that for this set of parents, breeding procedures that utilize GCA effects should be most effective to improve all the characters studied. The tests allowed to choose several restorers and females with significant favourable GCA effects and several hybrids with significant SCA effects for further stages of hybrid rye breeding programme.
23787175|Stability performances of some introduced malting barley genotypes were compared by using regressions on environmental means. Grain yields of 16 genotypes at 14 environments (locations x years) were analyzed. The regression coefficients of genotypes ranged from 0.598 to 1.208 for grain yield. When the grain yields and regression coefficients of genotypes were evaluated together, Carusa, Schooner, Texana, Yerel (land variety) and Bornova (check variety) genotypes were considered to be as the group of the best adaptation to all environments. Plasiant was the most stable genotype according to three stability parameters (high grain yield, regression value of one and deviation mean square of zero).
23786774|To determine the value of phenotypic variability of populations of different origins, two DH varieties (GK Dlibb, GK Szindbd), a DH variety candidate (Ambitus) and two conventional winter wheat varieties (GK Istvn, GK Kincs) were compared for seven agronomic traits. The aim of the study was to find out if values of phenotypic variability of theoretically homozygous DH varieties are lower than variability of not homozygous traditional varieties, which have some genetic variation. On the basis of our analysis it can be established that there is no obvious difference in the variability of examined characters (plant height, spike length, spike width, spikelet length, spiklet width, number of node/spike and number of seeds/spike) of populations of different origins. The value of coefficients of variations (CV) ranged between 5-10%, which is characteristic for the balanced population. Only the value CV of seednumber/spike was higher. In conclusion, it appears that the examined populations of different origins cannot be separated by the value of variability.
23780421|Sprout damage in wheat occurs sporadically in the U.S.; most often in the white wheat producing area of the Pacific Northwest (PNW). The problem has received more marketing and research attention during the 1970's than in any previous period. Wheat farmers in Michigan formerly were vulnerable to sprout damage nearly every year. Through a marked change in production management, the problem now is of minor importance in that State. Wheat within a U.S. market class and grade is commingled with other wheat in that same category in the market channels. Wheat with nonvisible sprout damage, or with the grade allowance of sprout damage, is intermixed with sound wheat. There is an urgent need for an accurate, rapid, but simple test procedure which would identify lots of seed even with low levels of -amylase activity. A colorimetric method and a nephelometric method are under evaluation. A unique situation is confronted by the PNW farmer located in the areas of limited rainfall where alternate year summer fallow is practiced. Early fall planting of winter wheat under high soil temperature and moisture stress conditions requires rapid germination and emergence so that a good stand of wheat can protect against soil erosion. Ironically, some degree of dormancy or delayed germination is desired particularly in the white kernel varieties, to prevent pre-harvest sprouting in the occasional rainy harvest season. There is no immediate solution to the farmer's dilemma. Temperature during the period of seed development, from floret fertilization to maturity, has a critical effect on development of seed dormancy. Temperature at the time of attempted seed germination is critical to measurement of dormancy. Resistance to sprout damage is a complex genetic phenomenon, highly influenced by environmental conditions. Nonetheless, breeders and geneticists are hopeful that progress can be made through incorporation of one or more components of resistance into selected varieties, so that some degree of protection from damage during rainy harvest seasons will be possible.
23785229|Four corn (Zea mays L.) genotypes (A632xVa35, Va35, CO255, and Mol7) were inoculated with maize dwarf mosaic Potyvirus strain A (MDMV-A), sugarcane mosaic Potyvirus strains A and MB (SCMV-A and SCMV-MB). After inoculation plants were divided into three groups and put in three growth chambers at constant temperature of 10, 14, and 28C. Four days later each group of plants were transferred to the greenhouse. Number of the plants with mosaic symptoms were recorded every 1 or 2 days until the disease incidence did not increase. The average incubation periods were 13.7, 13.1, and 9.0 days, and average disease incidences were 34, 35, and 66% at temperature treatments of 10, 14, and 28C respectively. Lower temperature treatments altered in different degree the pathogenicity of the three virus strains which manifested in length of incubation period and in percentage of diseased plants. SCMV-MB seemed to be less susceptible to lower temperature than MDMV-A and SCMV-A.
90003445|In the long term fertilization experiment of Debrecen University, CASE (Debrecen Ltkp) the effect of fertilization lasting more than 25 years was examined on the soil microbiological properties. With the increasing doses of the fertilizers applied decreased the pH significantly and increased the hidden acidity, while changed the ratio and occurrence in the soil bacteria and microscopic fungi and also decreased the quantity of microbial groups. These changes show the answer reactions of living organisms; it corresponds to the resistance stage of stress effect, and while in case of nitrifying bacteria reaches the exhaustion stage.
23786252|Several studies have indicated that the breadmaking quality of tritordeum (Hordeum chilense-wheat amphiploid) are related with the presence of the H. chilense proteins into the endosperm of the amphiploid. The objective of this work has been to group these proteins by the Osborne's categories and stablish their degree of genetic variation. These protein fractions were obtained from eight lines of tritordeum (5 hexa- and 3 octoploid) and analysed by SDS-PAGE. The results indicated that the H. chilense genome incorporate variable number of protein components to each fraction. Likewise, although the globulin fraction did not presented any variation for the tested lines of tritordeum, a certain degree of variation could be observed in the other three fractions.
90002643|Gluten, rheological and fall number investigations were performed in the years 2004 and 2005 on four winter wheat varieties; GK Garaboly, GK Kalsz, GK Verecke, GK Petur; treated with herbicides. In both years, the effect of variety was significant (p<0.001) on each baking parameter tested, while the effect of crop year was significant on wet gluten content, baking value, technological water absorption and falling number. The effect of herbicides was significant (p<0.01) on the gluten spreading only. Taking the two years and four varieties together, only Lintur caused significant decrease of gluten spread. Variety-treatment interaction was seen in both years. The averaged wet gluten content and technological water absorption of the fur wheats was significantly higher in 2004 than in the somewhat more wet year 2005.
23785342|Biochemical and technological characteristics of twenty stabilized progenies of the crosses Pliska/Krasnodarskaya 39 and 4133-409/Odeskaya 76 were studied. Breadmaking quality characters and HMW glutenin subunits were investigated. The correlations between Glu-1 quality score and some qualitative features are statistically significant. HMW glutenin subunits 5+10 controlled by Glu-D1 locus demonstrated the highest effect on qualitative characteristics followed by subunit 2* controlled by the Glu-A1 locus.
23783775|Six maize inbred lines and six hybrids were evaluated under greenhouse and field conditions following mechanical inoculation with maize dwarf Potyvirus A strain (MDMV-A), and two strains of sugarcane mosaic Potyvirus (SCMV-A and SCMV-B). Inbred line Mo17 proved to be very susceptible to all the three virus strains, both in the greenhouse and in the field. Disease incidence in Mo17 ranged from 71% to 100%. Only the inbred line Pa405 and its hybrids remained symptomless in every case. Disease incidence of the other inbreds and hybrids was influenced by different greenhouse and field conditions. Some genotypes (eg. A632, Oh514Mo17, A632Va35) that appeared to be resistant to MDMV-A and SCMV-A in the field became infected 29% to 87% in the greenhouse. In contrast with MDMV-A and SCMV-A, the SCMV-MB seemed to be more infectious under field conditions, and the percentage of SCMV-MB incidence was two times higher in the field than in the greenhouse. Inheritance of resistance was largely dominant in inbred Pa405 in both the field and greenhouse tests. Resistance in inbred Oh514 appeared to be dominant in the field but was intermediate in the greenhouse.
23785288|Understanding relationships among traits is crucial for usage these relationships effectively. Two synthetic maize populations (Syn103NS and Syn140NS) were studied for correlations between stay-green, stalk water content, leaf water content, vegetative period and grain moisture. The set of genetic correlations was subjected to path-coefficient analysis, in which stay-green represented the dependent and the other traits the independent variables. Highly significant genetic and phenotypic correlations were found between studied traits in both populations. The most consistent genetic correlations established between stay-green and leaf water content (rg=0,852**; rg=0,900**). Leaf water content showed the strongest direct effect on stay-green in both populations (py2=0,600** py2=0,648**). Stalk water content and grain moisture had less direct effect than was to be expected based on their correlation coefficients. Weak and insignificant direct effect of the vegetative period (py4=0,031; py4=0,032) indicate that stay-green genotypes can be selected regardless of the length of vegetation.
23783813|Homozygous population F Maja X Viner (=var. Krasnoufimsky 95) was studied on isozymes, hordein composition and malt quality characters. Parental genotypes in hordein, - and -amylases allelic composition could be presented as follows: P1 (=Maja) Hrd A2, Hrd B8, Hrd F2, Bmy 1Ma, Amy 1Ma and P2(=Viner) Hrd A12, Hrd B19, Hrd F1, Bmy 1Vi, Amy 1Vi. Significant differences for amylolytic activity between genotypes Hrd B8, Hrd F2 (710.211.3 SKB units) and Hrd B19, Hrd F1 (669.29.3 SKB units) as well as in malt extractivity between genotypes having alleles Amy 1Vi (4.140.03 g/100g) and Amy 1Ma (4.240.01 g/100g) were found. The data showed that the alleles Bmy 1Ma, Amy 1Ma, Hrd A12, Hrd B19(+F1) caused predominantly positive effect on barley malting quality. Following breeding tests have confirmed our findings with respect for alleles of loci Bmy 1 and Amy 1 obtained from var. Krasnoufimsky 95 families evaluation. In these experiments significant differences between genotypes with alleles Amy 2Vi (50.30.4 g) and Amy 2Yu (53.70.6 g) as well as alleles Sod S1 (51.30.3 g) and Sod S2 (47.91.5 g) in 1000 kernels weight were also found.
23783750|Five semi-dwarf rice varieties were used to induce callus on MS medium supplemented with sucrose, yeast extract and 2, 4-D. Among them BR 3 callused best. Vigorously growing callus of cultivar BR 3 produced multiple shoots on MS medium supplemented with NAA, kinetin, sucrose, yeast extract and casein hydrolysate. Nine regenerants from the callus of a single seed were transferred to pots. The progenies from these plants were tested on experimental field for various agronomic traits in R2 generation as well as disease and insect pest reaction in R3 generation. The progenies of these somaclones exhibited phenotypic variation from the parent variety BR 3 in several agronomic characters including plant height, panicle length, grain size, etc.
23789802|The High Molecular Weight Glutenin Subunits (HMW GS) in bread wheat landraces were studied using the SDS-PAGE technique. Out of the 32 landraces, 23 were homogeneous while nine showed heterogeneity with respect to the HMW glutenin subunits. Novel variants were observed in HMW GS in four of the landraces. One novel subunit coded by the Glu-B1x locus and two novel subunit pairs at the Glu-D1 locus were identified. A modified system of nomenclature over that of Payne and Lawrence (1983) is suggested for numbering the new subunits. Accordingly, the novel subunits are numbered as 71(Glu-B1x) and 2+122; 51+122; 52+123 and 53+123 (Glu-D1x+y) and the allelic designations are given as Glu-B1 bh for 71 + 9; Glu-D1bp for 2+122; Glu-D1bq for 51+12; Glu-D1br for 51+122; GluD1br for 52+123 and GluD1bt for 53+123.
23786811|Heterokaryons obtained by pairing nitrate nonutilizing (nit) mutants from Fusarium poae made it possible to divide 24 isolates into 13 nonoverlapping, vegetative compatibility groups (VCG). The isolates were cultured on rice and in two liquid media. Twenty of the isolates produced type A trichothcenes: DAS and MAS, while twelve of the isolates produced type B trichothecenes: nivalenol, acetylnivalenol and diacetylnivalenol. There was correlation between mycotoxin production on the media and VCG groups.
23790340|To identify feedback signal(s) controlling nitrate uptake by wheat roots, the effects of 13 amino acids on time course of net nitrate influx have been investigated. A new non-invasive technique of measuring net nitrate influx with a high time resolution of minutes has enabled us to make this comparison. The results showed that glutamate caused a rapid and large decrease of net nitrate influx by roots. Aspartic acid, asparagine, glutamine caused a relatively slow decrease of net nitrate influx with a lag of 0.51.5 h. Other amino acids had a small effect or even no effect. It is speculated that glutamate is most likely to be a negative feedback signal.
23787078|A pollen test, which is used in wheat to detect an osmoregulation gene, was evaluated in 16 barley doubled-haploid lines. In the presence of water stress, created using a 40% polyethylene glycol 6000 solution on microscope slides, the application of a low concentration of KCl produced a size response in approximately 50% of lines. Visual selection was confirmed by quantification in 8 lines, with significant responses in 5. The lines were then evaluated in the field in low and high soil-water deficit sites. Water deficit was produced by exclusion of rain after initially wetting up the soil profile. The group selected for a pollen response showed significantly lower leaf zero turgor water potentials (ie. greater turgor maintenance). This was, in turn, due to differences in osmoregulation. At ear emergence, mean turgor pressures at low deficit and mean relative water contents at high deficit were higher in lines with high pollen osmoregulation. There was also a separate effect due to differences in maturity between the lines. Higher turgor maintenance and osmoregulation occurred in lines with faster maturity. Because lines were dissimilar, accurate dry weight and yield comparisons between osmoregulation groups were not feasible. A drought susceptibility index was used to accommodate variation in low stress growth and yield, and to allow comparisons with wheat experiments. In all experiments high osmoregulation groups had lower mean values than low groups. Indices calculated for osmoregulation groups in barley were not significantly different to those from similar wheat experiments conducted over 4 seasons with differing evaporative demand, suggesting operation of a similar process or gene. Further confirmatory work is needed using more closely related lines.
90003412|Fertilization is a yield-increasing procedure, but its effects on botanical composition have also been proven by several experiments. In case of fertilizing, the major yield increasing nutrient is nitrogen, but phosphorus and potassium are also having a profound influence. Effects of extensive (without nutrient supply), medium (150 kgha
23786154|Yield, yield components, morphological traits and earliness have been assessed during three consecutive years in a collection of naked barley. This collection was composed by 49 accessions originated from three genebanks. The variation of the assessed traits was described by taking into account the origin of accessions. Relationships among traits were studied. Carbon isotope discrimination in the grain was also analysed for one trial, corresponding to the driest year. Its relationship with the other characters was investigated and its potential use as a predictive criterion for yield under drought was discussed.
23788967|The field research was conducted on hypogley in Vrbanja, Croatia, during four growing seasons from 1992/1993 to 1995/1996. They included five soil tillage systems and three nitrogen fertilization levels in four replications for winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) after soybeans (Glycine max L.) as a preceding crop. Tillage treatments were: PL=conventional tillage (ploughing to 20 cm depth, diskharrowing and standard sowing); DS=diskharrowing and standard sowing; MC=tillage by multitiller and chisel, standard sowing; RS=soil tillage and sowing by RAU-Rotosem; PR=ploughing to the depth of 20 cm + RS. Nitrogen fertilization treatments were 140 (N1), 170 (N2) and 200 kg N ha1 (N3). Wheat grain yields effects by tillage were as follows: 6.00 (PL), 5.79 (DS), 5.65 (MC), 5.61 (RS) and 5.90 t ha1 (PR). Significant differences of yields were found only in the first year of testing. Nitrogen fertilization resulted by non-significant differences of yields as follows: 5.56 t ha1 (N1), 5.85 t ha1 (N2) and 5.96 t ha1 (N3). The conclusion is that under certain environmental conditions it is possible to apply reduced soil tillage and moderate N fertilization.
90003167|The progress of FHB resistance in Canadian wheat is documented, and is related to the use of a sufficient number of sites with artificial inoculation. The abundance of type I mechanisms in the best advanced lines is highlighted and discussed.
23781412|Percentage and weight of dry matter (DM), black layer (BL) formation, and pericarp characters were studied on kernels of nine maize (Zea mays L.) genotypes. Commercial hybrids, high-protein and high-lysine (opaque-2) experimental hybrids were included. The number of days from sowing to silking ranged from 70 to 80, from silking to maximum kernel DM attainment from 76 to 86, and BL formation required from 23 to 32 days. No association could be detected between these characters. Kernel protein contents varied from 9.7 % to 14.5 %. At the point of maximum kernel DM accumulation, kernel weights varied from 206 mg to 314 mg of DM, and percentages of DM from 62.7 to 71.5 %. On a scale of 1 to 5, BL ratings varied from 3.1 to 4.9 at this maturity stage. Part of the BL development occurred after the attainment of maximum DM weight. Pericarp thickness was, on an average, 97  at the crown region of the kernel and 187  at the basis region. Pericarp weight was 4.4 % of the whole kernel and varied only slightly, except for one hybrid. Kernel drying of the nine genotypes varied and they could be grouped. It was concluded that, under the growing conditions of Central Europe, BL expression can serve as a useful criterion for maturity in maize grains.
23780419|Wheat varieties displaying various degrees of harvest-time dormany germinated readily when tested at 20C, four to five months after harvest. However by increasing the germination temperature to 30C, the varietal ranking in germination rate was similar to that at harvest time. Treatment with gibberellic acid almost completely eliminated these temperature induced differences in germination. Storage of harvest-ripe seed at 15C appeared to delay after-harvest ripening. Testing for dormancy can therefore be delayed severeal months either by using a high germination temperature or sub-zero seed storage.
90002760|During the last decade, as our Planet became more vulnerable, the demand for improved knowledge of environmental process and the impact of human activity on their dynamic increased. It is there for clear how important agricultural land use change is for European environment in all its varied components. Different factors, including demographic trends, economic growth and affluence, technology, agricultural and rural policies, institutional structure, attitudes and social values and other key driving forces, lead to changes of land use and land cover, which result in a range of impacts on yields, farm income, biodiversity, landscape identity water quality, flooding, greenhouse gas emissions, soil erosion. Information about causal relationships driving land use development is needed to build models of land-use and land cover change, the result of them help governments and other agencies to shape land-use decisions by creating the incentives that motivate individual decision makers in changing their practice toward sustainability. This paper presents the main drivers of European land use change, focusing on regional differences of them and their impacts.
23781569|Transmission of D-genome chromosomes through the male and female gametes of an alloplasmic wheat pentaploid with Aegilops uniaristata Vis. cytoplasm was determined in the progenies from reciprocal backcrosses involving Triticum durum Desf. or T. aestivum L. The effect of Ae. uniaristata cytoplasm on the transmission of gametes with different numbers of D-genome chromosomes was similar to the effect of Ae. crassa Boiss. and Ae. juvenalis Eig. cytoplasms published before by Tsuji and Maan (1981). These results were considered as indicative of the cytoplasmic similarity between diploid Ae. uniaristata and the two polyploids Ae. crassa and Ae. juvenalis.
23789851|Five giant embryo mutants, described as MH-gel, MH-ge2, MH-ge3, MH-ge4 and MH-ge5, which were derived from the same indica rice cv. 'Minghui 86' and characterized by 2.0, 1.88, 2.08, 1.93 and 1.88 times enlarged embryo than that of wild type, were selected for the current study. The mutated giant embryos were controlled by a single recessive gene, and except mutated locus with MH-gel other four loci were allelic to each other and the previous reported locus ge in japonica rice cv. 'Kinmaze'. No obvious differences in physicochemical properties such as apparent amylose content (AAC), alkali spreading value (ASV), gel consistency (GC), and starch paste viscosity were observed between giant embryo mutants and wild type. Significant increases in the contents of crude lipid (LC), crude protein (PC), Vitamin B1 (VB1), Vitamin B2 (VB2), Vitamin E (VE), essential amino acids such as Arginine (Arg), Aspartic acid (Asp), Glutamic acid (Glu), Lysine (Lys), Methionine (Met), and mineral elements such as calcium (Ca), iron (Fe), potassium (K), phosphorus (P) and zinc (Zn) were detected in brown rice (BR) of giant embryo mutants. The amounts of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter, were similar in the BR of giant embryo mutants and wild type, and more GABA content was observed in germinated brown rice (GBR) than BR. Significant enrichments were detected in the GBR of giant embryo mutants, basically corresponding to the enlarged embryo.
23785371|This work decribes the suitability of new clean-up techniques for subsequent determination of B-trichothecenes by GC-ECD and of zearalenone by HPLC-FLD. Using the Mycosep multifunctional clean-up columns for purification of B-trichothecenes the clean-up procedure is reduced to a 1-step extract purification, thus saving much time in comparison with classical clean-up methods without sacrificing the purity of the extract. This work also shows the good performance of immuno-affinity-chromatography as a new clean-up technique for the determination of ZON in corn.
23790344|Drought and high temperature are especially considered as key stress factors with high potential impact on crop yield. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of short periods of high temperature, drought and their combination at different growth stages of plant under controlled conditions. The effects of high temperature and drought on grain yield were additive. However, high temperature increased the degree of water stress and the combined effects of drought and high temperature were much more severe than those of each individual treatment. High temperature and drought applied at post- anthesis shortened duration of maturation, grain filling duration and reduced grain yield, mean grain weight, grain number and thousand-grain weight.
90002674|The optimal germinative ability, carbohydrate and in-kernel air-dry content values of corn seeds are essential for the distilling industry. Our examinations were focused on the investigations of the hailstorm and corn smut fungus [Ustilago maydis (DC.)Corda] infection effects on corn seed germination, as well as in-kernel air-dry content values of the seeds. The corn samples were collected in 3. September 2007 from three plots (control, hail stormed and transition areas). Beside, smut-infected samples were collected, too. The samples were analysed by Wendei-analysis in order to get information about the in-kernel air-dry content value changes of the hail stormed and smut infected seeds. In order to supplement our study -amylase activity, sucrose, glucose and fructose content in the first 7 days of seed germination were also investigated. In the case of hail stormed samples cob mass and in-kernel air-dry content values decreased. The smut fungus infection decreased the raw protein (-2.7 %), raw fibre (-0.3%), raw ash (-0.5%), extractable matter exempt from N (-12.9%) and starch (-9.2%) contents. It was evident that enzyme activity and sugar content in the stressed germinating was significantly lower compared with the control ones. The lowest data were detected in the seeds originating from corn smut fungus infected plants. Our results clearly show that stress conditions applied altered not only the chemical components in the seeds but decreased their germinating activity as well.
23781504|The effect of soil and air dryness on the yield components, green mass and crude mass of washed roots was examined in the phytotron for two spring wheat varieties, Siete Cerros and Penjamo 62, in five three--week periods which approximately coincided with the 1-3 leaf stage, tillering, stalk formation, heading /from heading to the beginning of ripening/ and maturity. The experiments showed very clearly that the spring wheats examined are extremely sensitive to drought in the stalk formation phase. This was obvious not only because of the reduction in plant height, but also from the decrease in the number of grains per plant and in the thousand grain mass in all treatments where drought was programmed during stalk formation alone, or for several phases including stalk formation. The more intensive growth of the root system compared to the green mass due to the effect of drought stress may act as an indicator and also as one cause of hardening, or adaptation-like phenomena.
90002658|Nine winter wheat varieties were tested in a network of a ten location field test series under different environment conditions. Presently many mono- and oligogenic features had been characterized by molecular markers by which the selection for these parameters can be accelerated. On the other hand both the stability of yield and quality - as polygenic - very complex attributes cannot be approached by marker assisted selection technique. The multi-location trial system is the most suitable way to select for these traits. Stability of different quality traits (wet gluten content, gluten stability, kernel hardness, farinograph water absorption, farinograph value, Zeleny-value, falling number) were evaluated to test the varieties adaptability to the different location, and year effects. The most significant differences were found in falling number, farinograph water absorption and developing time of dough.
23786240|Six durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L.) cultivars were pollinated by Cando/Veery to produce chromosome 1B, T1BL.1RS F1 heterozygotes. Each F1 combination was pollinated by its respective durum maternal parent to yield the first backcross (BC1) derivatives. Heterozygous 1B, T1BL.1RS plants were identified by glucose phosphate isomerase (GPI) electrophoresis and Giemsa C-banding. These BC1F1 heterozygotes were backcrossed further to their durum parents to yield BC2 derivatives, which were similarly advanced to BC7 and then self-pollinated. From the selfed progeny, plants homozygous for chromosome 1B and T1BL.1RS were identified biochemically and cytologically. We discuss here the utility and uniqueness of this germplasm to elucidate the contributions of the 1RS translocated chromosome arm in different durum genotypes.
90003021|Research is based on grain yield results reached from field trials carried out with 14 winter barley varieties (
23783960|All commercial F1 single cross hybrids of crop plants have three lines in their composition: the A (male sterile), the B (maintainer) and the R (Fertility restorer) lines. Two line hybrids are desirable since the cost of hybrid seed is reduced and the problems of seed production common with three line hybrids can be avoided completely. We report here the successful production of a two line F1 sorghum hybrid SSH1. Its parents are CS 3541 A2 (A-line, female parent) and SPV 489 (R-line, male parent). The female parent of the hybrid CS 3541 A2 is male sterile during the winter and is fertile during other seasons and is maintained as a single line. Incidentally the hybrid has all the features of sweet sorghums with juicy stems, although both parents of the hybrid are grain types without sweet stems. The brix values and the sugar content of the juice were very close to a released sweet sorghum variety SSV 84. Methodology for breeding two line commercial hybrids was suggested using SSH1 as a model.
23783839|F2 hybrid plants obtained via the following hybridization schedule: (F1 wheat-rye polyhaploids)x primary hexaploid triticales were analyzed. More expressed variability of plant height and number of spikelets per spike is observed in the hybrid combinations with S.cereale as compared to those with S.montanum. Number of florets show least variability in both types of hybrid combinations. Grain number per spike and plant grain weight show the greatest diversity. A proposition is made for the leading role of triticale and wheat parents in determination of the hybrids' productive variability.
23782791|Plants regenerated from embryo-derived callus of Triticum aestivum on transfer to field-plots matured and set seeds. They showed a wide range of variation and remarkable differences in their height, length of the awns, the number and fertility of the spikes and seeds.  The microspore derived pollen-embryos, and the zygotio-embryos frozen to -196C in the presence of cryoprotectants survived. There was increase in survival of frozen androgenic anthers when they were cut open, or teased with needles to expose the pollen-embryos before freezing. The retrieved cultures formed plantlets and callus capable of undergoing embryogenesis. These observations on the regeneration of complete plants from frozen cultures establish the use of cryopreservation for the conservation of somaclonal and gametaclonal variations in wheat, and point to the use of freeze-preservation of embryos as a valuable tool where crosses are incompatible and the hybrid embryos abort, in such cases immature embryos can be cryopreserved, and cultured when needed.
23789794|Rice straw represents a significant energy source for ruminant animals, and fibers and lignin contents of rice straw are negatively related to intake potential of forages. For improvement of the digestibility of rice straw, it is necessary to understand the genetic basis of the related traits. In present study, mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTL) for acid detergent fiber (ADF), neutral detergent fiber (NDF), and acid detergent lignin (ADL) was carried out using a doubled haploid (DH) population derived from a cross between indica variety Zai-Ye-Qing 8 (ZYQ8) and japonica variety Jing-Xi 17 (JX17). The results indicated that all three parameters were continuously distributed among the DH lines, but many DH lines showed transgressive segregation for all the three traits. A total of three main-effect QTLs were identified for ADF and ADL, two of which, qADF-9 and qADL-9, shared the same region on chromosome 9. These two main-effect QTLs explained more than 20% of the total phenotypic variations, whereas the other QTL, qADF-5, explained 12.8% of the total phenotypic variation for ADF. In addition, another two epistatic QTLs, qADF-2 and qADF-3 could explain 17.6% of the total variations. Thus, we concluded that both main-effects and epistatic QTLs were important in controlling the genetic basis of ADF.
90003385|In the resistant infected plants reactive oxygen species (ROS) are produced after inoculation, such as superoxide (O
23790066|This study examined the mutagenic, antimutagenic and antioxidant activities of the DMSO extracts from the wheat bran. Wheat bran extracts showed no genotoxicity toward Salmonella typhimurium TA98, TA100 and TA102 with or without S9 mix (an external metabolic system). In addition, wheat bran extracts expressed a dose-depend inhibitory effect on the mutagenicity of promutagen aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), an indirect mutagen which requires metabolic activation, and 3-(5-nitro-2-furyl)acrylic acid (5-NFAA), 2-nitrofluorene (2NF) and hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ), direct mutagens, in Salmonella typhimurium TA98, TA100 and TA102 strains. Significant total antioxidant capacity of wheat bran extract was found by two standard spectroscopic assays based on ABTS and DPPH reagents. A special attention was focused to the reactive radical scavenging capacity of bran extract as one of its antioxitant activities. Wheat bran extract possessed higher ability to scavenge oxygen- and carbon-centered reactive radicals generated by the thermal decomposition of K 2 S 2 O 8 than BHT (70 and 65% scavenged radicals, respectively) during the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR)/spintrapping test. The total phenolic content of wheat bran samples expressed in gallic acid equivalent was 2.7 mg/g, total flavonoid content expressed in rutin equivalent was 70.8 g/g and the most abundant phenolic acids established by GC-MS method were isoferulic (3-hydroxy-4-metoxycinnamic) and ferulic (4-hydroxy-3-metoxycinnamic) acid, sinapic, caffeic, p-coumaric and vanillic acids.
23783715|Near-isogenic lines carrying the Norin 10 and Tom Thumb dwarfing genes, singly and in combination, in two varietal backgrounds were examined in yield trials over two seasons in typical Eastern European conditions in Szeged, Hungary. Over varietal backgrounds and seasons the Rht2 and Rht2 alleles were associated with a yield reduction of 6%, due to a 25% decrease in grain weight partly compensated by a 10% increase in grain number per ear and a 13% increase in tiller number per square mater. Yields of Rht1 + Rht2, Rht3 and Rht3 + Rht2 genotypes were much reduced, by 45%, 48% and 71% respectively. The contrast between these results and others showing yield advantages of the same semi-dwarf lines when grown in the U.K. is discussed in relation to interactions between the Rht alleles and environmental factors.
23784286|Copper ion used as cupric sulfate and applied at 5 to 1000 times higher concentration than that of the original Murashige and Skoog's (1962) medium effectively promoted shoot regeneration in wheat callus cultures derived from immature embryos. The highest number of shoots (at 10 uM CuSO4) was eight times higher than on the medium containing the original amount of MS CuSO4 (0.1 uM), and 23 times higher than those on CuSO4-free medium. Similarly to the shoot production, cupric sulfate also had a strong stimulating effect on root formation. Cupric sulfate used at high concentrations also resulted in a significantly higher increase in shoot regeneration than kinetin or benzyladenine (0.5 to 4 mg/l) treatments.
23783104|A study on eight parents durum wheat of diverse origin with their possible combinations of F1 and F2 generations under normal field and aphid infestation conditions. The results indicated that grain yield/plant was highly and positive correlated with each of biological yield/plant, spikelets/spike, spikes/plant and harvest index. While it was negatively correlated with each of 1000-kernel weight, spike length and days to heading in both generations under normal field conditions. The results also revealed that grain yield/plant of the control was negatively correlated with each of aphid effect on grain yield/plant as a percentage of the control, biological yield/plant as a percentage of the control infestation scale and damage scale under aphid infestation conditions. These results demonstrated that cultivars have high yielding ability was susceptible to aphid infestation. The results of path analysis revealed that number of spikes/plant had the highest direct effect on yield in all generations, followed by 1000-kernel weight and number of spikelets/spike for the parents and F2 generation.
90003499|Mycotoxins are a major source of biotic stressors affecting plant, animal and human diseases, as well as human alimentation and animal nutrition. In a monitoring study completed at an intensive dairy sheep farm with awassi ewes in the year 2006 with laboratory processing at the Georgikon Faculty, University of Pannonia 29 samples of feed were evaluated for mycotoxin content (DON, OTA, F-2, and T-2) and the propagula of moulds. Highest level of mycotoxin contamination was found in red clover haylige #1 sample (4.29 mg/kg DON) and in corn silage #1 sample (2.3 mg/kg F-2).
23780425|An 8  8 diallele cross was made in spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) between selected varieties possessing sprouting resistance, seed colour and earliness differences. This allowed a study to be made of the genetics of seed coat colour and seed dormancy and the relationship between these characters. About 3000 F2 progeny in F3 were grown in the field and analyzed for colour and seed dormancy. A selection experiment in this material was made in the next year, and estimates of heritability and response to selection were calculated. In the diallele graph of seed colour three distinct groups of the parental varieties occurred. At least five different genepairs for seed coat colour were indicated. The seed dormancy diallele graph showed the same three distinct groups. Whiteseeded grains were far less seed dormant, and another genetical system was discovered when the whitegrained crosses were excluded. Red seed colour intensity was poorly correlated with seed dormancy (r = 0.387) and therefore it is not a useful selection criterion for the latter character.
90002945|Five maize hybrids were grown on two soils in eastern Croatia (Rakitovica gleysol and Bicko selo luvisol) in the growing season of year 2007. Significant differences in leaf K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn and Zn content (the ear-leaf at flowering stage) were established depending on specific agroecological conditions of the localities. For example, leaf K, Fe, Zn and proline contents were higher on the gleysol, probably due to lower soil pH, and more severe drought stress. Leaf K content was negatively related to Ca and Mg. Synergistic relation of K to proline in maize leaves could be the reaction of plant to environmental stress, whereas proline was negatively related to grain % in ear mass. Soil influence was not significant for evaluated yield components (grain ear
23787278|Four single-pustule isolates of Puccinia recondita f. sp. tritici were tested for infection frequency (IF) and latent period (LP50) at seedling stage on five Bulgarian partially resistant wheat cultivars (Zlatoklas, Vratza, Charodeika, Skitiya and Katya). Two combinations of the same isolates in mixtures were used to determine their competitive ability in field experiments on each cultivar. The level of partial resistance was assessed using AUDPC. Specific cultivar-isolate interactions were established. Isolates differed significantly on IF and LP50 when tested on the same cultivar, as well as one isolate expressed different aggressiveness depending on the cultivar. In most of the cases isolates showed different competitive ability still after first generation. The results from IF and LP50 test confirmed those from the established competitive ability.
90002642|The effectiveness of biological nitrogen fixation in soybean linked to genotype and environment was tested using the number and dry weight of nodules per plant, above-ground plant mass, nitrogen content in the above-ground part of plant and grain yield. A field study conducted in eastern Croatia from 2004 to 2007 year and involved 8 cultivars in two variants of seed inoculation by
90003178|The objective of this work was to evaluate quantitative-genetic parameters of
90003394|Oat has been more often used in human nourishment in recent years for any rational diet. Grains contaminated with Fusarium spp. are unsuitable for both human and animal consumption because of the adverse health effects of fusariotoxins. The aim of this work was to examine the reactions of covered oats to artificial infection with Fusarium culmorum (W. G. Smith) Sacc. and the accumulation of deoxynivalenol mycotoxin in seeds. Covered cultivars registered in Slovakia (Zvolen, Auron, Atego, Flmingsstern, Kanton, Viktor, Zlak, Euro and Ardo) were inoculated during flowering in 2006 and 2007 with conidial suspensions of aggressive isolate of F. culmorum Sacc. After ripening, twenty panicles were harvested manually from each plot of blocks (block 1. inoculated, block 2. uninoculated). The threshed seeds were then manually cleaned and hulled. The reduction in 1000-kernel weight (R-TKW) was calculated. The kernel samples were also analysed for deoxynivalenol (DON) content by a commercial ELISA kit for quantitative analysis of DON in cereals. The differences between the oat cultivars were observed in R-TKW and DON contents. A high R-TKW was discovered in Flmingsstern and a low reduction in Euro, Ardo and Zlak. The average range of DON accumulation was from 3.45 mg kg
23787244|The effect of cadmium and combined cadmium and magnesium was examined on wheat seedlings (Triticum aestivum L. cv. Alfld-90). The one-week-old hydroponically-grown seedlings of wheat were exposed to Cd2+ (107 M, 103 M) and Cd2+ (107 M, 103 M) + 1 % MgCl2 stresses. The stress effects were followed by changes in free amino acid, polyamine contents and peroxidase enzyme activity in roots and shoots. Free amino acid content was determined by ion-exchange liquid chromatography. Polyamine content was identified by OPLC (overpressured layer chromatography). Peroxidase activity (U/mg protein) was measured by spectrophotometric method. The results showed significant differences between the two organs of the plant (root and shoot) with respect to the biochemical response to the applied stress. The cadmium stress caused the accumulation of proline in both shoots and roots. Magnesium reduced the proline content in the samples treated with cadmium. The magnesium treatment seemed to reduce the negative effects of cadmium in wheat seedlings.
23777597|Three green- and three purple-coleoptile cultivars studied for cross-pollination in 1974 showed that 39.4 and 10.1 percent average outcrossing occurred at Normal and Fairhope, Alabama, respectively. No significant differences existed between cultivars. The combinations of good wind exposure and coinciding flowering dates resulted in the highest levels of cross-pollination.
23781493|Fourteen male sterile lines of wheat with S-cytoplasm from three sources, viz., T. timopheevi, Ae. ovata and Ae. caudata were crossed in all possible combinations with 16 male fertility restorer lines carrying R-genes from the same three sources. The R-lines with a particular fertility gene source were observed to restore fertility in A-lines with S-cytoplasm from different sources. Fertility restoration was sometimes partial and grass clumps were observed in some interspecific hybrids.
23789872|The current study was focused on fungi colonizing the stem bases of wheat. Particularly, fungal species with significant harmful effect on wheat were studied. The dynamics of the stem base colonization by these fungi over the growing season were observed, and the association between individual pathogenic fungi was also evaluated. In addition, the fungal leaf sheaths penetration, which can cause physical disturbance, was assessed. The asymptomatic presence of fungal DNA in wheat tissue was confirmed. Microdochium nivale was found on the stem bases most frequently. Other fungi, such as Oculimacula spp., Rhizoctonia cerealis and Fusarium spp., were presented considerable less frequently. The statistical significant association was confirmed only between M.nivale var. nivale and M. nivale var. majus. Out of these, M. nivale tended to decrease in summer season, the frequency of occurrence of Oculimacula spp. and R. cerealis increased at later growth stages. Along with this, these species infected only plants previously colonized by M. nivale. A significant relationship between visual symptoms and presence of M. nivale DNA in the host tissue was confirmed.
23789922|High molecular weight glutenin and IBL.IRS translocation employing the standard sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS-PAGE) and acid (A-PAGE) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis methods were classified in 43 Slovak wheat cultivars registered between 1976 and 2006. Total number of 9 alleles was detected at all Glu-1 loci. The most frequent HMW-GS alleles were "Null" for Glu-1A, 7+9 for Glu-1B and 5+10 for Glu-1D, respectively. At the same time these alleles also constituted the most frequent HMW-GS genotype and phenotype 0, 7+9, 5+10. Such HMW-GS combination was found in 48.8% of all genotypes analyzed in Triticum aestivum L. ssp. aestivum. Eleven different HMW-GS genotype-phenotype combinations were found, occurring at various frequencies.
90003095|The vegetation of dolomite grasslands used as sheep pastures in the Transdanubian part of Hungary was investigated. Besides grazing, the sampling sites were loaded with some anthropogenic influences (trampling, artillary activity, abandonment) as well. Parallel with the grazed pastures, some abandoned grassland areas were also investigated. 22 m sampling quadrats were used in open and closed grasslands alike. In addition to the phytosociological records, including the abundances of the species present, coenotaxa and nature conservation values, which are all good indicators of the state of naturalness of the grasslands, the soil characteristics of the areas were also evaluated. Our results suggest that the vegetation of open grasslands resists better to the strong anthropogenic impacts (grazing, artillary activity). As a result of similar influences, closed grasslands get completely degraded: several weed and poisonous species increase their abundances, the dominant graminoid species get exchanged, the nature conservation value of the area decreases, and, at last, the grassland almost disappears. In these areas grazing has to be diminished. Although with decreased abundances, the constituent plant species of the open grasslands survive even the impacts of intensive grazing and artillary activity. Overgrazing of grasslands results in more significant degradation in the natural state of the area than its regular burning down as a result of artillary activity. The total abandonment of the area results in strong shrubification and homogenization of the species composition.
23786794|Improvement of forage yield in oat (Avena sativa L.) depends on thorough understanding of the influences of genotype, environment and the genotype x environment interaction (G X E). The objective of this study was to analyze G X E interaction in oat for biomass forage yield according two different models, joint linear regression analysis (JRA) and AMMI analysis. Twelve genotypes were grown in different environments during three years (1993-94-95) at the locations of La Dulce and La Plata, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. The forage yield (dry matter yield Kg/ha) was determined at 60, 100 days after emergence and at ripening. Heterogeneity of regression in JRA was nonsignificant. Interaction sume of square accounted for by heterogeneity of regression were 12.08 % (three years mean). In contrast, the first principal component axis in AMMI was highly significant (P<0.001). This first axis accounted for by 68.46% of interaction SS (three years mean). The AMMI model was found tobe more effective than JRA analysis in accounting for GXE interaction under low environmental diversity The use of AMMI is recommended for the study of GXE effects in the oat breeding for forage yield.
23777653|Correlation coefficients were calculated from parental, F1, and F2 data of a cross between two cultivars of winter wheat in order to assess the possibility of combining desirable characteristics from the parents. Path coefficient analysis was performed to show the magnitude of cause-and-effect relations among yield and yield components. The results Indicated that earlier heading was associated with fewer spikelets per spike and heavier kernels. Taller stature was correlated with later heading, more spikelets per spike, and larger kernels. A positive genotypic correlation was found between spikes/plant and kernel weight indicating the possibility of deriving from this cross genotypes combining the high tillering capacity of one parent and the heavier kernels of the other. Path coefficient analysis at the genotypic level showed that kernel weight exerted the highest direct and indirect effects upon grain yield. Therefore, more emphasis should be placed on kernel weight in selection for higher grain yield based on morphological characters.
90003039|We studied the element composition of wild-grown
23787301|Four new chemicals were compared, to commercial standards, in order to determine their effect on thousand-grain weight, germination ability and kernel infection with Fusarium of wheat in two consecutive years. Significant differences were observed between the years in all three investigated disciplines. The treatments provided statistical differences both in kernel infection (p=0.05) and germination ability (p=0.1), where the best treatments were metconazole and coppertetraminehidroxide with no statistical difference between them. The other commercial standard was outperformed both by coppertetraminehidroxide and mixture of coppertetraminehidroxide + zinctetraminehidroxide. Contrary to literature, no significant differences were found among the treatments in respect of the thousand-grain weight, whereas coppertetraminehidroxide and a mixture of coppertetraminehidroxide + zinctetraminehidroxide numerically higher Thosand-GrainWeight than any other treatment. There was no crop injury observed in either trial at any time. The results suggest a possible use of coppertetraminehidroxide and mixture of coppertetraminehidroxide + zinctetraminehidroxide for plant protection purposes in wheat.
23782888|After one day feeding period adults of cereal leaf beetle were able to transmit the brome mosaic virus. Feeding on healthy plants the insects rapidly loosing their infectivity.The transmission experiments and the life cycle of the vector suggest the role of Oulema melanopus in the natural spread of the virus.
23786927|The effect of nutrient supplies on the crude protein content and amino acid composition of naked oats was examined on chernozem meadow soil at 4x4x4 N, P and K levels. The crude protein content of naked oats increased over an NO3-N range of 124179 kg ha1 in the 060 cm soil layer. Over-fertilisation with N led to a reduction in the crude protein yield. Better N supplies caused an increase in the quantity of certain amino acids, to an extent differing in each experimental year. The amino acid composition of the protein was not influenced to any great extent by the N supplies. The crude protein content and crude protein yield exhibited little change over a soil P supply range of 120360 mg kg1 AL-P2O5, but considerable changes were observed in the quantity of amino acids and in the amino acid composition of the protein. The water supplies in the various years influenced both the protein content and the amino acid composition.
90003267|The current study investigates the impact of three trichothecene-chemotypes on fusarium head blight (FHB) disease spread in wheat.
90002719|During two-year studies we investigated influence of genotype and protection against pathogenic fungi
23785381|The toxic function of deoxynivalenol (DON) is the 12,13-epoxy-group because of its potential to inhibit protein biosynthesis. A possible way to detoxify DON is microbiological transformation of the epoxide to a diene. The aim of this work was to develop rapid analytical methods for monitoring of anaerobic and aerobic microbiological transformation experiments with DON. Thin-layer-chromatography (TLC) is beside high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and gas chromatography GC known as a conventional method for the determination of trichothecene mycotoxins. We developed a TLC method with silica gel 60 plates for the determination of the aerobic transformation products of DON and a RP-TLC method for the determination of anaerobic metabolites. Without the need of any clean-up these methods give extremely rapid results at a very low cost.
23789877|Eight malting barley cultivars were used to investigate the cultivar and environmental effects on grain protein components and the relationships between protein fractions and -amylase or -glucanase activity. The results showed there was a great variation for three protein fraction (albumin, hordein and glutelin) contents over cultivars and locations, and a distinct difference in each protein fraction content between the locations for a given cultivars. Correlation analysis indicated that -amylase activity was significantly correlated with three protein fraction contents and there was a negative correlation between glutelin content and -amylase activity, but -amylase activity positively correlated with albumin or hordein content. Furthermore, there was a significant positive correlation between total protein content and -glucanase activity, and we found the hordein and glutelin content did not show correlated with -glucanase activity but the albumin content was a significantly negative correlation with -glucanase activity.
23783805|More than 200 wheat varieties from all over the world show the presence of a 1RS.1BL wheat rye chromosome translocation. In order to determine a possible selective advantage of the introgressed alien segment crosses between translocated and non-translocated wheats were made for the development of F2-5 subpopulations with and without the translocation. Yield testing and analysis of yield components revealed that plants carrying the rye translocation significantly outyielded the control plants. This was mainly caused by an increase of spikelet fertility. A QTL is postulated which is located on the short arm of rye chromosome 1R.
23787257|Forty-six triticale experimental lines of our breeding program were grown for two seasons for evaluation of kernel and milling properties. Flour yield and quality characteristics were studied to determine their relationship to test weight. Test weight was correlated with flour yield but it was not correlated with flour protein content, falling number, sodium dodecyl sulfate sedimentation index (SDS-SI), alkaline water retention capacity (AWRC) and gluten content.
23790341|Fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (FBA, EC 4.1.2.13) catalyzes an aldol cleavage of fructose-1, 6-bisphosphate to dihydroxyacetone-phosphate and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and a reversible aldol condensation. Three candidate genes with 1077bp coding for fructose-bisphosphate aldolase were cloned and sequenced in wheat, barley and rye. These genes could encode 358 amino acid residues. Sequence analysis indicated that wheat, barley and rye FBA genes were conserved with high identity (94.13%), while maize sequence had a 9bp deletion near the 3' terminal. According to the alignment of 75 amino acid sequences, conserved domains of the FBAs were detected. These conserved domains might be the important functional sites of the FBAs. The cytoplasmic FBAs of wheat, barley and rye were clustered together, and the cluster was close to maize and rice FBAs. Nine peptides of the FBAs and the last amino acid Tyr (necessary for preference for fructose 1,6-bisphosphate over fructose 1-phosphate) were most conserved in plants, animals and algae. Current findings suggested that the FBAs could be divided into three main subgroups: plant cytoplasmic FBA, plant chloroplastic FBA and animal FBA. These results also indicated that the active and binding sites of FBAs had rare variations during the long-term evolution.
90003099|In this reashirching we found the reduction of germination with damaging and lossing seeds through process of harvesting and husking. We notice the fall of germination from 96.3% in hand harvesting to 95.3 % in field machinery harvesting, without husking in field, followed by final process husked by two husking section and to 94.7% in machinery harvesting with field husking followed by husking with two husking section that occured with hybrid Bc 462.
23786222|High molecular weight (HMW) glutenin subunits are known as one of the most important components determining functional properties of wheat flour. The aim of this paper was to investigate HMW glutenin subunit composition of OS wheat cultivars and their contribution to bread-making quality. HMW glutenin subunits of 15 OS wheat cultivars were determinated by sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Ultroscan laser densitometer. The quality parameters of wheat grain: protein contents, sedimentation value, wet gluten, gluten index, rheological properties of flour and loaf volume, were measured. In the investigated OS wheat cultivars the most frequently subunits in the locus Glu-A1 were N, in the locus Glu-B1 7+9 and in the locus Glu-D1 2+12. The quality scores of each subunit were summed to create a Glu-1 quality score that ranged from 5 to 9 for OS wheat cultivars. The positive correlation between Glu-1 score and gluten index as well as extensographic properties of dough of investigated wheat cultivars, were noticed.
23788059|To examine the seedling characteristics of nine different bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) varieties, several variables regarding seedling size and germination characteristics were analyzed using canonical correlation analysis. Significantly correlated first canonical variate pairs indicated that the variables within each set such as coleoptile length, shoot length and fresh weight within the size set, and emergence rate index and germination percentage can be regarded as main factors for vigorous wheat seedlings. The variables such as root number, root weight and dry weight did not seem to have predictive power on seedling size measurements of wheat. Both emergence rate index and somewhat germination percentage within the first canonical variate of germination set appeared to be the correct factors for vigorous germination of wheat seed. Our analysis revealed that compared to other variables, coleoptile length and emergence rate index are powerful determinants of reliable germination, and in turn for better wheat stand establishment. Selecting for these traits in early generation is expected to increase the seedling vigor of wheat. Canonical correlation analysis was shown to be suitably sensitive to detect relationships between seedling variables in bread wheat.
90002977|The present work was undertaken in order to provide data of the biochemical parameters imported hinds, settled in confined area and restricted pasture. It also provided data about differences between hinds age categories. Blood samples were collected from 82 red deer hinds aged between 1 and 11 years, kept at 7.5 ha at the altitude of 87 m, 6 months after import from Hungary. While mean total protein was lower, glucose level was higher in our investigation in relation to other authors (Poljiak-Milas, 2004, Bouda et al, 2000). It is probably due to the insufficient grazing, stress condition and parasite infection.
23783831|Electroporation, a method of DNA delivery successfully used to transform other cereal crops, shows potential to be a useful method for wheat transformation. The goal of this research was to identify the electroporation parameters that would result the highest number of regenerated plants and evaluate selection criteria for transformation. Anther culture-derived embryoids were electroporated at 500 and 960 F with and without an enzyme pretreatment. Electroporation at 500 F produced more regenerable embryoids than electroporation at 960 F. The plasmid used for electroporation and transformation selection contained the uidA (GUS) and bar genes encoding for -glucuronidase and phosphinothricin acetyl transferase which imparts resistance to the herbicide Basta. Of the 66 plants regenerated thus far, one has expressed GUS activity. None have expressed Basta resistance.
90002816|The object of the research is the evolving of the Russian preferential national project as the basic financial resource for agricultural development. Based on the goals, resources and possible outcomes of the project we estimate the future of the countrys agriculture.
90003393|In this paper the effect of high dose mineral fertilizer application as a major stressor to the grain yield of maize in continuous maize cropping long-term field experiment was studied, as well as the crop year effect in Keszthely, Hungary. The two factors of the experiment are:
23781386|Studies were made of protein content variation in the progeny of crosses of two hexaploid wheat cultivars, "Warrigal" and "Barkaee", each with three different wheat pentaploids ("Chinese Spring" x Triticum turgidum dicoccoides). In the pentaploids, "Chinese Spring" was (i) normal or (ii) possessed the homoeologous pairing promoter ph2 or (iii) the promoter ph1b. Segregation for protein content in a 42-chromosome F3 population from the normal pentaploid, and in a 42-chromosome population of the normal pentaploid x "Warrigal", revealed quantitative inheritance and partial dominance of low protein content. However good scope appeared to exist for selecting for increased grain protein content over the level of the hexaploid parents in both crosses.
23786900|It was found that F. culmorum and F. graminearum isolated from wheat were also virulent to spring oats. The degree of infection differed in the two years examined. Of the eight spring oat varieties examined 'Muresan' was less infected than the others. As the result of pathogen attack a substantial decrease was observed in thousand grain mass and in germination, thus causing a considerable reduction in the value of the seed.
90002698|Sweet potato
23789672|Aim of this study was testing of field crops (maize-maize-sunflower-winter barley rotation) to lime (carbocalk: waste of sugar factory, 39% CaO) application in five rates up to 90 t/ha. Field trial was conducted in autumn 2000 in four replicates. Liming with carbocalk resulted with considerable increases of field crop yields as follows: up to 50% and 36% (maize for 2001 and 2002, respectively), up to 49% (sunflower 2003) and up to 30% (barley 2004). In general, by application of carbocalk to level of 90 t/ha, yields drastically decreased mainly to level of control as affected by over liming. Concerning oil contents in sunflower grain, it was significantly higher compared to control for treatments 15, 30 and 45 t/ha, but similar for control and 60 t/ha. Using of 45 and more lime per hectare decreased grain quality of malting barley because protein contents were significantly increased.
23777682|The F2 data from three crosses of tall C303 bread wheat cultivar with tall NP847, semi-dwarf S227 and triple dwarf S409 were used for correlation and path coefficient analyses of yield. Grain yield showed a positive and significant association with plant height, spike number, grain number and grain weight in all populations. The correlation of plant height always resulted from its indirect associations with other traits correlated with yield. Consistently spike number was the most important yield predictor which needs to be combined with grain number for tallxtall populations and grain weight for tallxsemi-dwarf crosses.
90003157|Ear rot in maize caused by
90003071|Zeolite is a well known mineral, it has huge cation exhange capacity (1,47 meq/g), has porous structure (7  10). Hungarian zeolite is an amazing natural mineral because of its extraordinary ability to absorb, hold, release, and exchange different chemicals, nutrients, toxins and ions according to need. Hungarian zeolite was formed from the glass component of volcanic ash millions of years ago. We can found zeolit mainly in Tokaj mountain, especially, inthe south part, there are occurences of zeolite in Cserht mountain, in Nemti and a minor amount of zeolite are in Mecsek, too. The whole zeolite resources are 300 million tons (t) in Hungary (Dvnyi Schweitzer, et al., 2004.) This kind of zeolite contains more than 50 % klinoptilolite, and mordenite. Zeolite is an inert material which can be used in many fields such as waste water treatment, agriculture, industry. Hungarian zeolite has a particularly affinity for ammonium (NH
23792285|The D genome of wheat (Triticum aestivum cv. Panda) was used in this study to improve traits of hexaploid winter triticale (x Triticosecale Wittmack). Genome D expression was studied in hexaploid triticale lines with single substitutions (1D/1A, 3D/3A, 4D/4A, 5D/5A, 6D/6A, 7D/7A) and a line with 4 substitutions (1D/1A + 3D/3A + 4D/4A + 6D/6D). Chromosomes 1D and 3D have introduced to the analysed substitution lines resistance to wheat leaf rust (Puccinia triticina, synonym P. recondita f. sp. tritici) and resistance to preharvest sprouting (which is very important in hexaploid triticale), reflected in a high expression of seed dormancy, a high falling number, and low alpha-amylase activity in grain.
90002700|Leaf growth parameters, pigment composition, chlorophyll fluorescence, leaf gas exchange were studied in saplings of
23784190|Length of the third leaf (soil surface to extended tip of the leaf blade), measured nondestuctively, was examined as a criterion to select for barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) resistance in spring oat, Avena sativa L. Ten cultivars of oat with differing levels of field resistance were inoculated with BYDV 24 hours after emergence. Plants of cultivars with greater field resistance tended to have longer third-leaf lengths. Truncated selection using length of the third leaf identified more plants of the resistant cultivars than random selection. We think length of the third leaf is a viable method for selection of BYDV resistance in oat.
23783855|Changes occuring in the tRNA and rRNA contents of the winter wheat variety Mv 8 as a function of the nutrient supply were studied in the shooting phenophase in field-grown samples taken from a fertilisation experiment. The correlations between the RNA contents and the dry matter and N, P and K accumulation in the whole aboveground plant were studied by means of regression analysis. The results canbe summarised as follows: -The RNA contents rose as the vegetation period progressed; the effect of age could be consistently observed. Under the given conditions, fertilisation did not usually increase RNA contents in the early stages of development and even in later stages the rise was not significant, probably due to a more balanced nutrient supply. In winter wheat the RNA content was found to be in close significant correlation with the dry matter mass of the whole plant and with phosphorus accumulation in the shooting phenophase.
23787583|The effects of nitrogen (N) applications on Hungarian, French and Serbian winter wheat cultivars were studied in field trials, which were conducted from 1996 to 2003 in a central Hungarian region, Hatvan-Nagygombos. Nitrogen fertilizer rates of 0, 40, 80, 120, 40 + 40 and 80 + 40 were applied at tillering and after anthesis fazes (Feekes 3 and Feekes 10.5.). The nitrogen used was 36 % ammonium-nitrate in. Split-split plot design with four replications was used. In the experiment we analysed the changes of quantity and baking quality of yield. Amount of rainfall during the vegetation period had a significant effect on wheat yield. Differences in rainfall during the vegetation period  especially in April and May  had a significant effect, too. It turned out that in drought periods nitrogen top-dressing has a great importance. In the dry 2001-2003 years even the 40 kg/ha dose resulted in extra yield. 80 and 120 kg/ha fertilizer rates was even more effective. The increasing dose of nitrogen top-dressing and its division resulted in this trial in an outstanding quality improving effect in spite of the unfacourable ecological circumstances. Especially great improvement was observed in the case of foreign varieties. Nitrogen top-dressing stabilized the falling number values.
23782926|Cultivars and lines of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), in 1986 in SW Ontario naturally infected with Fusarium graminearum differed significantly in scab incidence and in deoxynivalenol (DON = vomitoxin) concentration in the grain. Concentration of DON in the grains of the various cultivars and lines were correlated (r = 0.74) with scab incidence, but some deviated significantly from regression having either less or more grain DON concentration than expected given their scab incidence. An unreleased line, H60-2, had both low scab incidence and low grain DON content, and should be a useful parent in breeding for resistance.
23789293|The use of genetic markers allows the study of polymorphism and genetic distances between maize lines in greater depth than can be achieved on the basis of phenotype and DUS traits. The analysis of polymorphism between 46 maize inbred lines with known genetic background and the classification of these lines in related groups was carried out by means of morphological description, isoenzyme analysis, RAPD analysis, and identification using gene-linked microsatellite (SSR) markers. The genetic distance or degree of relationship between the lines was determined using cluster analysis. Only a very limited extent of allele polymorphism could be detected in isoenzyme analyses; the 46 lines formed only 18 gel electrophoresis groups. Nevertheless, on the basis of RAPD and SSR markers, all the lines could be distinguished from each other. This was reflected by the PIC (polymorphism index content) values, which ranged from 0.04 to 0.55 (mean 0.27) for the various enzyme loci, while far higher values were obtained for RAPD and SSR markers (0.200.91, mean 0.61, and 0.540.90, mean 0.73, respectively). Due to the large number of lines, two lines, derived from each other or from common parents, were chosen from each related group as the basis for grouping the lines according to genetic background. It was found that, while the individual marker systems only partially reflected the actual relationships between the lines, a joint processing of the genetic markers, supplemented with morphological data, revealed a close correlation between the groups formed on the dendrogram and the genetic background.
23792322|As a first step of a project aimed at the identification of potential biocontrol agents of Rhizoctonia solani, the rice sheath blight fungus, we surveyed the biodiversity of the genus Trichoderma based on sequence of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) 1 and 2 of the ribosomal RNA gene cluster in paddy fields in Mazandaran province, Northern Iran. Amongst the six obtained species of Trichoderma, T. harzianum and T. virens proved to be the most frequent species in this habitat. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis revealed that the T. harzianum isolates can be divided into 14 different ITS genotypes clustering in four groups. Our results are in agreement with previous molecular studies, which also revealed that T. harzianum is a complex species comprising more or less different ITS genotypes. T. virens was not as diverse as T. harzianum and three different genotypes were distinguished which constitued only one cluster. All T. atroviride and T. hamatum strains had identical ITS sequences.
23781471|Callus cultures were initiated from haploid immature barley embryos, produced by the Hordeum bulbosum chromosome elimination technique. The culture medium used was Gamborg B5 either with or without 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D). In order to investigate the effect of orientation of embryo, embryos were cultured either with the scutellum in contact with the medium or with the scutellum uppermost. Three types of callus were induced and the type of callus produced was dependent upon the orientation of the embryo. However, the size of the callus produced was not dependent on the orientation of the embryo. A significant amount of callus was formed when embryos were cultured in the inverted position on medium devoid of 2,4-D. The regeneration medium was 85 with the major salts at half the recommended concentration and the 2,4-D was replaced by 1-napthalene acetic acid (NAA) at 1 mg 11 and 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) at 2 mg 11. The possible applications of these findings to barley breeding are discussed.
23780381|Kinetin shortened the vernalization requirement of winter wheat cultivar Newton. The effect was operative after 20 days of cold treatment. Vernalization for 30 days with 50 ppm kinetin gave a higher rate of heading than did 40-day vernalization alone. However, kinetin retarded initial seedling growth.
90002837|Soil herbicides can influence directly the emergence and physiological processes of cultivated plants and weeds. These chemicals can also change processes of nutrient transformation, so can indirectly effect on mineral nutrition of plants. The aim of our experiment was to study the effect of different preemergence herbicides on mineral nutrition of two sunflower hybrids in a pot experiment. Experiment was set up in greenhouse. We examined changes of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and calcium content of Itanol and Rigasol PR sunflower hybrids. The applied herbicides were Afalon Dispersion (linuron), Galigan 240 EC (oxyfluorfen), Pledge 50 WP (flumioxazin), Proponit 720 EC (propisochlor) and Stomp 330 (pendimethalin) with the highest field suggested doses. Plants were grown for four weeks. Thereafter fresh- and dry weights, as well as N-, P-, K- and Ca concentration of shoot samples were measured. We established that fertilizers increased biomass and nutrient content of shoots in every treatment. Herbicides decreased fresh- and dry weight of four weeks age sunflower shoots in different extent, moreover influenced mineral nutrition of two hybrids unequally.
23783913|Plant regeneration was obtained from embryogenic callus induced from immature embryo explants of two species of Hordeum, H. spontaneum and H. vulgare cultured on B5 medium. Growth and regeneration potential of callus initiated on low levels of 2,4-D (2.5 mg/l) in combination with kinetin (0.5 mg/l) was poor. However, higher concentration of 2,4-D (5 and 7mg/l) in combination with kinetin (0.5mg/l) favoured long term high plant regeneration in both the species of Hordeum. The embryogenic callus initiated on higher levels of 2,4-D was maintained for ten to twelve months, after which it lost its potential to regenerate healthy green plants. Proper rooting of regenerated plants was achieved either on plain B5 medium or supplemented with IAA. The regenerated plants of both the species were transferred to field conditions where they developed to normal fertile plants.
23784263|Sixty entries of common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and 22 entries of durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.) were tested for acid soil tolerance. Wheat seedlings were grown in umlimed and limed acid soil, root elongation was measured, and relative root length was calculated as a measure of tolerance. Segregating populations of common wheat showed a high level of tolerance to soil acidity, indicating the presence of genes for acid soil/aluminum tolerance. The acid soil tolerance level of durum wheat generally was much lower than that of common wheat.
23782853|A new method, based on the application of MG-191-safened cycloate is proposed to control proso millet and other weeds in corn grown on "thiocarbamate history" soils. Laboratory and field tests indicate superior herbicidal activity without significant crop injury even at cycloate rates of 16 kg/ha a.i.
23787204|Karyological and phenotypic analysis were used to study the transmission rate of homoeologous univalent chromosomes 5A, 5D, and 5R via the eggs and pollen in the F2 progenies of the di-monosomics: 5A-5D, 5A-5R, 5D-5R. It was shown that chromosomes 5A, 5D, and 5R were transferred with various frequencies through gametes of these aneuploids, both under similar or divergent genotypic conditions. We estimated the expected frequencies of gametes with different composition of chromosomes 5A, 5D, and 5R transmitted separately through male and female gametes. It was demonstrated that two different homoeologous univalent chromosomes of the same dimonosomic are transmitted through eggs cells and pollen with different rates. In the progeny of each di-monosomic, the difference in intergenomic chromosome substitution have been observed. The results obtained allow to conclude that the differences in the pattern of intergenomic chromosome substitutions in the progeny of self-pollinated wheat-rye di-monosomics 5R-5A and 5A-5D is determined by the different transmission rate of univalent chromosomes.
90002860|Implications of soil erosion are of the utmost importance for the overall economic development, notably for agriculture, forestry and water management. For this reason, land management should involve permanent soil protection from erosion. This requires preparation of maps of soil erosion risk, as the basis for implementing the policies of soil protection steps. This paper presents results of the investigation which comprises the estimation of the water erosion risk on Croatian soils. For assessing a qualitative cartographic method according to the CORINE program was used depending on the maps of potential and actual erosion risk (scale 1:300.000) comprising the total territory in Republic of Croatia. In this reason pedocartographic investigations were applied with the GIS technology assistance. Research results indicate that the largest part of the Republic of Croatia has a low potential risk of soil water erosion, account for 42.3% of the total area of the country. A moderate degree of water erosion occurs on 24.1 % of the total area and high erosion risk can be estimated on 31.8% of the total area. In Croatia, however, a low actual erosion risk was assessed on 53.3% of the studied area, a moderate actual risk occurred on 31.5%, while a high actual risk accounted for 13.4% of the measured area.
90003236|Mycotoxin contamination of sheep feed, blood, milk and milk product was studied in a conventional dairy sheep herd in East Hungary. Content of DON, Ochratoxin, F-2 and T-2 of 28 sheep feed and at the same time DON and F-2 content of blood, milk and milk product (kephir) was analysed. Mycotoxin was found in almost all feed samples tested. Highest DON content was shown in winter concentrates (1,53-1,6mg/kg) and corn silage (1,119-1,045mg/kg). Higher F-2 was found in corn silage (0,187-0,216mg/kg) and alfalfa haylige (0,181mg/kg). T-2 was detected at lower content (0-0,0035 mg/kg) in nearly all samples. Ochratoxin contamination was shown only in few samples at low levels. F-2 (0,1-9,6 g/l) and DON (0,9-12,4 g/l) were also found in plasma samples of ewes tested. These later two toxins were also detected in milk (F-2: 0,2-2,5 g/l; DON: 0,4-7,2 g/l). However no mycotoxin was detected in kefir.
23782832|Diplodia maydis spores produced on sterilized sorghum seeds at 23C, harvested and stored in water at 10C, were viable for 10 weeks. Best spore germination occurred at pH 4 and 5 and least at pH 8. Autoinhibition for spore germination was discovered at high concentrations of spores in germination tests. Producing and germinating spores at 29C resulted in greatly reduced longevity; no germination observed 16 days after spore maturation. Care should be taken to insure that inoculum used to incite stalk rot in maize is viable when used.
90002951|The response of five maize inbred lines and their three commercial hybrids to acid soil with low nutrients availability were studied in a field trial over a three year period (2003 to 2005) in the east Croatia. Grain yield and P, Ca and Mg concentration in leaves were analysed. Highly significant effects of the both, year and genotype for all traits were determined. Grain yield of maize genotypes ranged from 5.11 t ha
90003030|The paper compares simulated and measured values of soil water content. Soil moisture was measured on research basis of SUA (Slovak University of Agriculture) in locality Kolany (48 22' 0" latitude, 18 12' 0" longitude and 200 m above sea-level). The soil type of experimental area is classified as a sandy-loam Haplic Luvisols with humus content of 2  2.99 %. There was used VIRRIB instrument for measuring of soil moisture which works on TDT (Time Domain Transmissometry) method. Two kinds of models have been used; the first one was the Global and the second one was DSSAT 4 model.
23782930|Analysis of F1, F2, and F3 generations of reciprocal crosses between two types of wild emmer wheat (Triticum dicoccoides), differing in leaf sheath pubescence, yielded data which generally fitted a monogenic Mendelian segregation. Hairy leaf sheath was dominant over non-hairy leaf sheath. It is proposed to use the symbol H1s for hairy leaf sheath. The pubescence also showed up in a hybrid between hairy wild emmer and non-hairy common wheat (T.aestivum).
23786151|The LMW glutenin subunits of 9 old Hungarian wheat cultivars were studied using one-step, one-dimensional SDS-PAGE. The separation resulted in 6-14 bands (patterns) of proteins with a molecular weight range of 30-60 KD. The relative mobility and intensity of the bands was evaluated using a computer program. A comparison of the cultivars (which all showed differences in their HMW glutenin subunit patterns) demonstrated that the LMW glutenin patterns of the cultivars differed both from the qualitative and the quantitative points of view.
23781472|Thirty primary triticales, derived from crosses of two hexaploid and three tetraploid wheats with ten rye inbred lines, were studied for the characters seeds per spike in C2 and C3, and plant height in C3. Parental wheat and rye genotypes exerted substantial influences on the traits investigated and considerable interactions were detected. The level of seed set was generally lower in octoploid triticales as compared to the hexaploids, which was attributed to their greater cytological instability. Triticales produced from Triticum turgidum seemed to have higher levels of stability resulting in better seed set. Judicious choice of wheat and rye parents for hybridization appears to be more profitable and offer more scope for selection than variability within cross combinations of triticales. Selecting forms of medium height and satisfactory fertility seems to be feasible.
23785227|In 1994 and 1995 267 leaf samples were collected from naturally infected wheat leaves and tested for presence of BSMV, BMV, WSMV and BYDV. All viruses occurred in a significant amount, 19-38% of the samples were infected by one of the viruses in 1994 and 10-40% in 1995. More than 60% of the samples contained more than 1 virus and nearly 10% was characterised by four viruses. The high ratio of BSMV was surprising. The infection due to a single virus was relatively rare, usually complex virus infection of diseased wheat plants occurred. This is an additional reason, why field symptoms are not suitable for virus identification.
23783748|Isoenzymatic diversity of 526 mutant lines developed from 10 cultivars was described. The analysis was based on allozymic variation in proteins encoded by 18 loci. Enzyme phenotypes that differ from those produced by standard variety Atlas were detected for 9 loci. There are esterases Est 1, 2, 4, 5, acid phosphatase Acp 3, aminopeptydase Amp 2, aspartate aminotransferases Aat 2, 3 and phosphogluconate dehydrogenase Pgd 2. Among 36 detected allozymes 5 are unique for European cultivated barley while 2 of them are unique for the genus Hordeum.
23777606|A Giemsa C-banding karyotipe of rye from hexaploid Triticale is described. The modified "denaturation-reannealing" method has resulted in three types of heterochromatic regions which correspond with the morphological characteristics of the chromosomes. All of the chromosomes of rye were characterized by their heterochromatic properties.
23783817|To establish criteria for early-growth stage detection of Lr37, the effects of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) developmental stage, pathotype of Puccinia recondita Rob. ex Desm. f. sp. tritici Eriks. and temperature on resistance expression were studied. Infection types indicated that interaction among these factors occurred. Resistance in primary leaves (infection types;1 to 2-) was most clearly detected at 15C. Testing of backcross-F1, F2 and F3 populations involving Lr37 at 15C indicated segregation of a single recessive gene in seedlings.
23786061|A survey of the systems used for pearl millet storage, the species of insect pests infesting stored pearl millet and their damage potential, was carried out in 1997/98 in the sudano-sahelian zone of northeastern Nigeria. Polypropylene sacks with a frequency of 65.6% were employed more frequently by farmers for pearl millet storage than rumbus (mud silos), clay pots or underground pits with frequencies of 18.8, 9.4 and 6.3%, respectively. Three species of secondary pests, Tribolium castaneum (Tenebrionidae), Cryptolestes ferrugineus (Cucujidae) and Liposcelis bostrychophilus (Liposcelidae) constituted 47.7, 27.8 and 17.0% of the total number of insects collected from millet sub-samples, respectively; two species of primary pests, Rhyzopertha dominica (Bostrychidae) and Sitophilus zeamais (Curculionidae) constituted 6.8 and 0.6%, respectively. Percentage of damaged pearl millet grains was significantly higher in grains stored in the underground pit storage system (80.1%) than in grains stored in the rumbu (39.2%), clay pot (15.8%) or polypropylene sack (14.0%). Damage by insect pests was significantly higher in grains stored for a longer duration than in grains stored for a relatively short period.
23789319|The occurrence of virus of the family Luteoviridae on maize and annual grasses was studied in the south region of the Czech Republic during three years. On maize and annual weed grasses no BYDV-MAV and CYDV-RPV pathogens were found in test samples. Out of 246 maize samples taken, BYDV-PAV was found in 50 of them. The occurrence of this pathogen on maize varied with the locality and the year of sampling. In the test annual weed grasses BYDV-PAV was found in Echinochloa crus-galii, Setaria pumila and Phalaris canariensis plants. The occurrence of this pathogen was also dependent on the locality and the year of sampling. This pathogen was not found in Setaria viridis. The present results suggest that maize and some species of annual weed grasses in the territory of southern Moravia may serve as a major source of BYDV-PAV for winter cereals because these species are a green bridge for this virus species
90003488|Stress - as a threat from the outside world - can originate from various sources. For the natural ecosystems the most dangerous stressor is coming from abiotic sources. Anthropogenic influence on natural ecosystems most of the time appear in form of pollution. Due to this activity, conditions for the natural environment are changing which appears in degradation. Degradation can be indicated with various ecological values. These values  since they appear spatially  can be mapped with the help of geographical information systems (GIS) softwares. On the other hand to sustain artificial ecosystems  namely plant production  information on stress  being biotic such as weed, disease, pest, or abiotic such as temperature, available water, soil parameters or nutrient supply  is mandatory in order to achieve the aim of plant production. In order to apply this kind of knowledge in decision making processes, according to the collected information, stress maps (e.g. soil water content map, nutrient supply map, weed map) can be drawn. This article is focusing on the different information collecting methods  applicable in natural and artificial ecosystems  as well as difficulties and problems appear during mapping process. In order to create spatially correct and precise maps, different mapping and interpretation techniques are available, this paper provides information on the possibilities how stress can be mapped using various input data about our surrounding environment.
23777456|The application of a mechanised mass selection system in a cereal improvement programme is discussed. The field and laboratory procedures are described.
90003255|The production of the trichothecene mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON) is an important virulence factor of the plant pathogenic fungus
90003226|The absorption, distribution and elimination of fumonisin B
90002857|The maize hybrids seed from three different FAO groups (FAO 400, FAO 500 and FAO 600) in four fractions (KO, KP, SO and SP) produced in two climatically different years (extremely dry 2000 and extremely wet 2001) had been different in quality and chemical composition. The effects of year, genetic specifity and seed fraction at the kernel mass, chemical composition (starch, proteins, cellulose, oil and moisture content) and seed vigour have been evaluated. The influence of agroecological conditions during two production years have been exposed at seed chemical composition and vigour indicators (cold test  CT and bulk seed electrical conductivity - EC). The genetic specificity and seed fraction had significant influence at all tested indices, with the exception of the influence of the fraction at the starch content.
23782866|The effect of genetic differences on the activity of leaf acid protease and crude protein content in T.aestivum cultivars and lines developed by various methods (including remote hybridization with Ae. crassa used as donor of high protein content) is discussed in the article. Correlation between crude protein content and proteolytic activity and the effect of climatic conditions on proteolytic activity and crude protein content are also objects of the study.
90003231|Deoxynivalenol (DON) and zearalenone (ZEA) contents were determined in kernel and cob fractions of maize ears inoculated with
23790298|Mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTL) was carried out in a set of 114 RILs of the International Triticeae Mapping Initiative (ITMI) mapping population under salt stress. Seedling population was grown during 8 days, under salt treatment (Hoagland's 1/2 strength + 110 mM NaCl, EC 12.4 mS/cm) and normal treatment (Hoagland's 1/2 strength, EC 0.9 mS/cm). We calculated starch degradation, measuring the dry weight of the grains on the 4th, 6th and 8th days of culturing. Formation of biomass was calculated measuring leaf and root length on the 4th, 6th and 8th days of culture. Interval mapping resulted in 13 QTLs, 2 major QTLs (LOD> 3) and 11 minors QTLs (LOD> 2). A total of 10 QTLs were associated with saline treatment and 3 QTLs at normal treatment. The data show that a high percentage of QTLs were in chromosomes 2B (3, 23.0%), and 1A (3, 23.0%), followed by 4D (2, 13.6%).
90002897|The transformation and recycle of toxic materials in soil are fairly less known so far. Anthropogenic effects may change the condition of top soil. In our experiments we have examined how the total and endurable element content and humus stability coefficient (Q index) changed in 2005 in the experiment started in autumn,1994 with 8 elements (Cu, Zn, As, Hg, Al, Cr, Cd, Pb) at 3 loaded levels (0/30, 90 and 270 kg/element/ha) conducted in 3 repetitions. The samples are taken from plots charged with elements of 270 kg/ha. The soil of the experiment is chernozem forest brown soil, with slightly acid chemical reaction in the ploughed layers, with no lime content. It can be concluded that the heavy metal contamination from 12 years earlier had a traced effect in the humus quality of the tested soil. After the big dose (270kg/ha)
23787070|Two DNA markers, i.e., a fragment mixture (Thg-m) and a Thinopyrum intermedium-enriched moderate-repetitive sequence (Thg36) were obtained by microdissection of a pair of added chromosomes in a wheat-Th. intermedium disomic addition line (TAI-27), followed by direct cloning of the amplification product. The amplification product was produced by two sequential PCR amplifications: first by degenerate oligonucletide-primed PCR (DOP-PCR) on the dissected chromosomes as a template; and second by sequence-specific PCR using primers designed according to highly conserved domains between two plant disease-resistance genes. Genomic Southern blot hybridization on relevant plant materials, including partial amphiploid, addition line, putative translocation line as well as parental lines, showed that the two DNA markers are useful in detecting Th. intermedium chromatin introgressed into the wheat genome. Allocation of two low-copy sequences cloned from the same source to individual wheat chromosomes confirmed the origin of the microdissected target chromosome.
23789823|The reliable monitoring of field virus infections of crop species is important for both farmers and plant breeders. The aim of this study was to detect virus infections of winter wheat in the 2006/2007 season. Twelve well-known winter wheat varieties were sown on two different dates (11th of October and 3rd of November 2006). Leaves of two individuals from each genotype were collected on 23rd of April 2007 to detect the virus infections (Barley stripe mosaic virus  BSMV, Barley yellow dwarf virus  BYDV-PAV, Wheat dwarf virus  WDV and Wheat streak mosaic virus  WSMV) after an extra mild autumn- and wintertime. Virus infections were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The aphid-transmitted BYDV-PAV was found frequently whereas other viruses were presented very rarely or were not detected. Forty-six per cent of the tested wheat plants proved to be infected by BYDV-PAV in ELISA, while using PCR, the virus infections with BYDV-PAV was found in 58% of the samples. Further, these results suggest that the optimal sowing time is critical in the control of cereal virus diseases, and additionally, that wheat varieties respond to the virus infections differently.
23787079|Three accessions of diploid wheat Triticum monococcum var. monococcum (AmAm) evaluated in respect of response of spikes to sprouting showed a markedly high values of sprouting resistance indices (number of sprouted kernels/spike, Hagbergs' Falling Number). The genome of T. monococcum var. monococcum (f. macedonicum Papag.) was incorporated into two triticale strains representing high and moderately level of susceptibility to sprouting. The appropriate two sets of introgressive triticale/T. monococcum lines were analysed in respect of variation of mature spikes sprouting (SR) and Falling Number (FN) values. The results showed different manner of inheritance of both characters. Full expression of Triticum monococcum genetic material responsible for resistance of mature spikes to sprouting was found and it was independent on hexaploid triticale recipient parent. In opposite to this, FN values higher than 200 sec. were originated on the basis of specific combination property of Triticum monococcum and triticale genes.
23790310|When using genotypes of different heterotic groups, the scarcity of information on the inheritance of traits that are of economic importance to popcorn has hindered the implementation of more appropriate methodologies to obtain higher genetic gains. To date, the diallel of Hayman (1954) has not been used by popcorn researchers, but it has robust properties that can minimize this gap in scientific information. Therefore, ten popcorn lines were used to obtain 45 diallel hybrids, which were evaluated along with their parents and three controls in a randomized complete block design with three replicates at two different locations in the State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Three agronomic traits of interest for the crop were scored based on the Hayman method (1954). The positive correlation between  ii and W i + V i showed that mostly recessive genes determine the expression of popping expansion (PE). It was concluded that dominant genes are mostly responsible for the trait expression of mean ear weight (EW) and grain yield (GY). A predominance of non-additive genetic effects for EW and GY existed and a prevalence of partial dominance and a high narrow-sense determined heritability for PE. For EW and GY, overdominance predominated and heritabilities were moderate to low. As an interpopulation method, popcorn lines with high concentrations of recessive alleles linked to the expression of PE can provide gains in PE and yield traits.
23784189|Several wheat-rye crosses have been analyzed in order to determine their crossability level. Monosomic and ditelosomic lines of Chinese Spring have been used as female parent as well as other Triticum species and cultivars. The pollen donors have been a series of different cultivars of Secale cereale, one of them (JNK) carrying different numbers of B-chromosomes, and several Secale species and subspecies. Our results indicate that wheat-rye crossability is significantly affected by both parental genotypes. A significant reduction in seed set is observed when four or more Bs are present in the rye parent. Moreover, the data show that chromosomes 3D and 3B are highly involved in the level of crossability.
23790150|In an experiment with two modern varieties (Amulet and Krona) and one historical variety (Nrnberg) of the spring barley stress, invoked by drought, significantly reduced the % content of N and the total amount of accumulated N in the plant bodies in all varieties. On the contrary significantly increased the percentage of N from fertiliser (15N) to the total nitrogen in the plants. Varietal differences were expressed as a tendency to greater accumulation of total N and N from fertiliser (15N) in the modern varieties than in the variety Nrnberg. On the contrary this variety was found that there was a greater proportion of 15N to the total amount of N in the plants. Under normal moisture conditions the nitrogen from the fertiliser (15N) was taken in and utilised by the spring barley primarily in the first half of vegetation period and, as a rule, its accumulation in the plants peaked during flowering. Drought slowed down its intake and usage and shifted the maximum accumulation to the post-stress i.e. post-floral period.
90002843|The healthy seed of good quality is necessary for every grower to reach the yield planned. The paper turns a light on the different agronomic effects to grow proper seed.
23782872|The paper presents the evidence of induced mutations for pelshenke value and caryopsis weight. M2 population of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum,L.) variety Pak 70 derived from different doses of gamma rays (100, 150, 200 Gy) and fast neutrons (300, 450,600 Rads) were screened for pelshenke value and caryopsis weight. The coefficient of variation for pelshenke value was considerably higher in Nf 450 Rads and 100 Gy gamma rays treatments in comparison with the untreated control. Gamma rays treatments were comparatively more effective than fast neutrons in increasing the caryopsis weight. Both traits were negatively correlated in the treated and control populations except at 150 Gy of gamma rays treatment where the correlation was positive but non significant. Selection strategy based on highly heritable traits such as pelshenke value and caryopsis weight can result in breeding varieties with high yield and improved baking quality.
23786917|Spoilage caused by fungi is a serious problem for the food industry because it renders products unacceptable for consumption. Fungi can contaminate foods and feeds at different stages before and after harvesting, processing and handling. The most important aspect of food spoilage is the formation of mycotoxins, which may cause food poisonings. Although traditional morphological and physiological characters are fundamental parameters contributing to the identification of microorganisms in foods and feeds, these criteria may be influenced by environmental conditions. To supplement classical methods, a number of nucleic acid based methods have been developed in the past few years. These methods have the advantage over phenotypic methods that they can give a more accurate amount of fungi than any other methods described, and they are useful also when no spores or other characteristic organs develop. This review attempts to give an overview of the molecular methods developed for direct detection of mycotoxin producing fungi in different foods and feeds.
90003465|In the spoil heaps, i.e. in the waste dumps of the soil removed in open-pit coal mining, the emergence and development of spontaneous vegetation is a prerequisite for "bringing them to life", i.e. for development of flora and fauna. Here, the diversity of plants is the result of locally different conditions  often extreme ones (such as drought and overheating of the surface, toxicity of the substrate, erosion, etc.). At initial stages, phytocenoses, which are not rich in the number of species and which usually have a dominant edificator species, emerge here. The abiotic stress in the spoil heaps is a regular and predictable phenomenon. The theory of primary strategies, represented by the relations of stress, disturbance and competition, was applied. A general diagram of succession development of vegetation in the spoil heaps in the North Bohemia has been prepared; the basic concept is the concept of C-S-R strategies here. The stress-tolerant taxa are determined by the conditions of these anthropogenic areas, i.e. these species are diagnostic indicators for an environment strongly burdened with stress factors (S-strategists). On the other hand, there are species well adapted to unpredictable disturbances (R-strategists); these often include field weeds and ruderal plants. Competitive C-strategists grow in the relatively stable habitats of spoil heaps areas. They are able to resist stress and disturbance only with difficulties. The C-S-R life strategies represent intersections based on the principle of the compromise of profits and losses.
90003145|The field trial with hydratized dolomite meal (47% CaO + 34% MgO) applications in four amounts (0, 5, 10, 15 and 20 t ha
23788924|The replenishment of phosphorus (P) in the soil solution is of considerable importance from the standpoint of plant nutrition, since the quantity of inorganic P in the solution phase at any time, is usually insufficient to meet the crops' requirements during the whole growing season. Acidification is a natural process in the environment; however, human activity often increases this tendency. Through this study we are concerned in the P recovery from soil soil phase that have received different levels of P-additions and of acidification applying three different water extraction methods. A calcareous loamy soil, pHH2O=7.9 was incubated with 0, 80 and 320 mgPkg1 soil for one month. Four different levels of P-acidification (pH 7.9, 7.3, 6.0 and 4.5) were adjusted by adding calculated volumes of HCl and incubating the soil samples for further one month, then equilibrated with different rates of phosphorus as 0, 80, 160 and 240 gP10cm3. The desorbed quantity of phosphorus was determined applying EUF, HWP and multistep desorption methods. Some part of the added phosphorus can be recovered by all methods, depending on the dose and time of P addition (previous or recent), on acidity of the soil and on the method used. The desorbable phosphorus amounts are in average 19 % of sum of P-loading at 0 mgPkg1 level, and 31 and 64 % at 80 and 320 mgPkg1 levels, respectively. Phosphorus recovery is generally more in acidified soil then in non acidified one but at high fertilizer dose it is somewhat less.
23777668|Phenotypic corelation coefficients among the 13 yield and physiomorphological characters were estimated from 136 progenies. (120 F1 + 16 parents). Progenies were classified into four height groups i.e. tall, 1-gene dwarf, 2-gene dwarf and three-gene dwarf. The phenotypic correlation coefficients of each group were estimated and compared over the height groups and the whole population. Considering the whole population most of the character associations were significantly positive while in different height groups only a few associations were significant. In three gene dwarf group only extrusion length and 1000-grain weight were significantly positive with yield. There was change in the magnitude and direction of the estimates of correlation coefficients among the components of yield and between the components over the different height groups. The character contributing to photosynthetic efficiency remained consistently positively associated with yield in all the height groups.
23787139|The data obtained by different researchers on growth habit in Triticeae species often appear contradictory. The reason for such discrepancies could be the differences in the methods of dividing F2 segregating populations into spring and winter forms. A common is for researchers to consider F2 plants that fail to form ears by some arbitrary date (or the time of heading of tester plants used as a control)  as "winter". Analysis of the distribution of heading dates is ignored in such cases. This approach actually treats a quantitative trait as an alternative one, violating the principles of genetics. As a result, the conclusions made, even in simple cases (when diploid species are studied), may be misleading.
23788199|By using the baking quality parameters from a long-term experiment the effect of fertilization (N+PK) on wet gluten contents and farinograph values were determined on chernozem soil under continental climatic conditions. In the average of years and varieties fertilization highly increased the wet gluten content (in the control treatment 27,6 %, in the N300/150+PK fertilizer treatment 35,97 %). Fertilizer application also had favourable effects on farinograph values. These effects, however, were rather moderate (in the control treatment 56,2, in N300/150+PK fertilizer treatment 61,4). We could increase the stability of the quality by using of appropriate fertilizer doses. The correlation between fertilization and wet gluten content was medium (0.343xx-0,694xx) and between fertilization and farinograph values was weak (0.030-0,419xx).
23789806|The objective of this paper was to evaluate the adequacy of different methods of planting in small plots and compared with the grain yield rank of wheat genotypes in large plots under different planting densities. Significant differences were found among cultivars, same cultivars under different planting densities, years of testing and planting densities. The estimated values of heritability in narrow sense for grain yield were high and varied from 68 to 99 %, depending on the method of planting and planting density. Comparison of correlation among cultivar's rank between Method 1 (planting with drilling machine) and other Methods (manual planting) revealed that these relationships were dependant upon the year of testing and varied from low to high, positive or negative and from significant to non-significant. The highest correlation was found between Method 1 and Method 3 (20 kernels/hill) in both years of testing. If we wish to test a larger number of genotypes from gene bank collections or advanced lines in early phase of breeding program for grain yield on small plots we can recommend the use of hill plots with planting density as close as possible to those in large plots.
23782812|The effect of mancozeb for control of Septoria nodorum blotch of wheat and on agronomic characters of 27 wheat lines was investigated. Mancozeb spray decreased significantly the severity of disease caused by Leptosphaeria nodorum. Yield, test weight, and 1,000 kernel weight increased significantly at Knoxville, TN, Normal, AL, and Griffin, GA. Grain yield, test weight, and 1,000 kernel weight were significantly reduced on inoculated wheat. Infection of leaves, glumes, and seeds were increased significantly at the same locations. Septoria nodorum blotch rating and seed infection were significantly higher on the control in Giffin, while days to heading, kernel weight, and yield were significantly higher at Knoxville. Test weight was the only agronomic character that was significantly higher at Normal. There was a significant correlation between yield components and L. nodorum infection on leaves, glumes, and seeds. Warm weather and rainfall after the emergence of ears favored Septoria nodorum blotch incidence at Normal. Tallness and late heading in some wheat lines contributed to partial escape from infection by the pathogen on glumes and seeds.
90003160|It has proved difficult to combine high FHB resistance with desirable agronomic and quality traits while advancing through cycles of crosses with elite but FHB-susceptible parents. Instead of aiming to transfer the complement of genes that condition FHB resistance in such sources as Sumai 3, our goal is to emulate in the desired germplasm the evolution of resistance that occurred in Sumai 3 as it derived from moderately susceptible parents. Genes in resistance pathways induced by
23780337|Soils in the southeastern USA are characteristically low in organic matter (<2%). In addition, escalating production costs and decreasing supplies of nonrenewable energy resources are creating concern among farmers. This study was initiated to compare early and late-planted sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] hybrids double-cropped after a winter annual legume. Crimson clover (Trifolium incarnatum L.) was planted in September and turned under as a green manure crop in April. Seven sorghum hybrids were planted 35 and 53 days after the clover was turned under. Fertilizer N was not applied to the plots at any time during the experiment. Mean grain yields were 8108 and 7549 kg/ha for the early and late plantings, respectively. Hybrid selection is a primary consideration in double-cropping clover and sorghum. This double-cropping scheme provides a very promising alternative in crop production since it provides organic material as well as slow release N during the summer growing season. Production costs could be decreased even more where no-tillage practices are utilized.
23779090|The causes for large variations in success in crossing particular wheat genotypes with rye were investigated using two hexaploid and three tetraploid wheats. In contrast to hexaploid wheat-rye hybrids, embryo and endosperm tissue from tetraploid wheat-rye crosses exhibited a lack of differentiation during early development. The failure manifested itself in the form of aberrant endosperm nuclei, endosperm failure and a cessation of embryo volume growth. The tetraploid wheatrye fertilized ovules generally appeared to cease developing by 10 days, whereas those of the hexaploid wheat-rye hybrids were still slowly growing at 18 days.
90002787|Stability of 9 dry pea (
90002881|Improved understanding of the variability of soil water content (SWC) is demanded for agricultural management. The soil water distribution at a field scale as influenced by the textural heterogeneity and tillage was studied on a 4.5 ha field near Moravsk Svt Jn village in southwest Slovakia. The variation of SWC followed the textural variations within the scope of the research field. On the loamy sand soil, there was found no influence of tillage on spatial correlation of SWC data there. However, in clay loam the marked spatial anisotropy due to direction of agricultural traffic was detected. We have assumed that tillage has disturbed the spatial structure of SWC in northern direction in case of the clay loam soil.
23780329|The crossability of wheat  rye as effected by the number of B chromosomes in the rye pollen donor plants was investigated. It was found that 2B rye plants have a much higher crossability than 0B and 4B rye plants. The cause of this difference is not known. Among 86 Transbaikal rye plants no plant with an odd number of B chromosomes was found.
23786992|This experiment was carried out to evaluate the genotypic variations in mineral nutrient content among bread wheat genotypes. Commercial wheat varieties Kutluk -94 and Gerek-79 and Kisla and Aksu genotypes from regional wheat populations were chosen based on the results of initial screening experiment with 26 wheat genotypes. The contents of total N (nitrogen), P (phosphorus), K (potassium), Mg (magnesium), Na (sodium) and the micronutrients Fe (iron), Mn (manganese), and Zn (zinc) of each wheat genotypes were determined in whole plant different growth stages (tillering, jointing and heading stages). The contents of minerals varied with growth stage. Except for Mg and Fe, wheat genotypes had higher mineral contents at the earlier growth stages (especially during tillering and jointing stages). Aksu regional population had higher magnesium content when compared to other genotypes.
90002913|Variability of harvest index and some yield components (plant height, number of spikelets per spike, number of kernels per spike) were studied in 10 wheat genotypes. Wheat genotypes were grown during three years on the experimental field in 3 replication. Samples of 60 wheat plants (20 plants/replication at each year) were analyzed in full maturity stage. Harvest index was computed as a ratio of grain yield and a total above ground part of the plant. The differences in average values for all the studied parameters among investigated cultivars were determined. High variability of investigated traits was established. The highest variability for grain yield (CV=5.60%) and stem height (CV=4.84%) and the lowest variability for number of spikelets per spike (CV=2.66%) and harvest index (CV=3.66%) was found. The strongest correlation was found between grain No.of kernels/spike and grain yield (0.485) as well between harvest index and grain yield (0.455).
23789915|This study aimed to analyze drought tolerance in bread wheat by examining the effect of soil water deficit on yield performance of synthetic bread wheat derivatives. Thirteen genotypes of synthetic bread wheat derivatives selected from a backcross (Cham 6 ///Haurani /Ae. tauschii ICAG400709 //Cham 6) were used for field evaluation in two experimental sites for two consecutive years. In addition, three synthetic wheat genotypes grown under different planting dates were compared for yield performance. Grain yield was highly correlated with harvest index under all of four cropping environments. No significant contribution of biomass to the grain yield was found in these plant materials. Late planting generated plant growth under the drier soil conditions after the heading time than under normal planting conditions, which resulted in considerable grain yield reduction. A synthetic wheat genotype selected from the materials showed significantly higher grain yield under late planting condition than the check variety, Cham 6. These results suggest that higher grain yield in a synthetic bread wheat genotype is associated with rapid translocation of photosynthetic carbohydrates to the grains after heading time.
23784239|Four barley genotypes, Azhul (waxy), Azhul sister-line (non-waxy), Waxbar (waxy) and Shonkin (waxy) were milled through an 8-roller dry mill following tempering to 10% moisture for 12 h. Fractions obtained were first break flour, flour, fifth middlings, red dog, break shorts, reduction shorts and bran. The fractions were analyzed for protein, ether extract, ash, starch, -glucans, neutral and acid detergent fiber (NDF and ADF, respectively), and acid viscosity. Protein was higher (P < 0.05) in fifth middlings, red dog, break shorts, reduction shorts and bran when compared to first break flour and flour. First break flour and flour contained the greatest (P < 0.05) concentration of starch and the least (P < 0.05) fiber while -glucan and fiber was concentrated (P < 0.05) in red dog, break and reduction shorts and bran. Acid viscosity was the greatest (P < 0.05) in the red dog fraction. Results of this experiment indicate that certain components of barley can be isolated in relatively high concentration in select milling fractions obtained roller-milling in a mill designed for wheat.
90002764|A greenhouse pot experiment was carried out to study the effects of bio- and N fertilization on total N, nitrate, calcium and phosphorus content of lettuce (
23787565|Thirty-one somaclones in two advanced successive selfed generations (R6 and R7) regenerated in vitro from immature inflorescences or embryos of six spring bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) cultivars (Sakha 8, Sakha 69, Giza 157, Giza 160, Lerma Rojo 64 and Tobari 66) have been evaluated under field conditions during two agronomic seasons. Agronomic traits and yield components were studied in the somaclones and compared with their donor parental lines. The combined analysis of variance revealed the presence of highly significant differences between somaclones and their original cultivars. In general, variation was observed within and between somaclones and their original cultivars for days to heading, days to physiological maturity, plant height, grain yield and yield components, especially in those derived from two Egyptian cultivars (Sakha 8, Sakha 69). Moreover, 5 out of 19 somaclones derived from Sakha 8, 4 out of 5 somaclones from Sakha 69 and one somaclone from Giza 157 were superior to their original cultivars. Thus, somaclonal variation arising from tissue culture could successfully produce genotypes agronomically superior to the parental cultivars and useful for wheat breeding programs.
90003482|Four to five decades ago significant areas in numerous regions of Hungary were planted by bird cherry (
90002941|A total of 96 hybrids from four maturity groups (FAO 200, 300, 400, 500) were tested in two years (2006, 2007) at two locations (Martonvsr, Szarvas). Considerable differences were found between the years for the grain yield per hectare and for the grain quality parameters. In 2006 record yields were achieved at both locations, averaging 11.61 t ha
23779105|The effects of the genetics systems in chromosomes of the 3rd and 5th homeologous groups of T. aestivum cv. Chinese spring, which control chromosome pairing in its hybrids with Ae. variabilis, Agr. intermedium and S. cereale were established by cytological studies of PMC chromosome meiotic behaviour in metaphase I.
90003171|The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of breeding for resistance to Fusarium head blight (FHB) in triticale varieties released at NARDI Fundulea. A large variability for parameters of resistance to this pathogen was noticed in experiments over three years (2005-2007). The newest varieties Gorun and Lotru combine higher resistance, expressed as AUDPC with desirable agronomic traits, weight of inoculated grains, as % of control, respectively.
23786797|The phylogenetic relationship between the diploid and polyploid species was investigated on the basis of variability for high molecular weight (HMW) glutenin subunit composition in wild diploid and tetraploid progenitor species of cultivated wheats. The analysis of diploid progenitor species showed that T.urartu(Au) possesses two type of accessions, one expressing only Ax subunit and other expressing both Ax and Ay subunits at Glu A1 locus. All accessions of other diploid species, T.boeoticum (Ab), possesess both the Ax and Ay subunits. The presence of only Ax subunits or null allele at Glu A1 locus in cultivated polyploid species indicated that T.urartu possessing only Ax subunit is the plausible donor of the A genome to wheat. Observation on HMW glutenin profiles also suggested that Ae. speltiodes may have contributed the G genome to T. araraticum (AG) and some other S genome species might have contributed the B genome.
23790305|The interrelationships among the grain protein, oil, fatty acids, starch, Na, K, Fe concentrations and chemical grain characteristics were determined by correlation analyses in thirty-five commercial dent corn hybrids. An increase in oil content of the corn is accompanied by a decrease in starch content and by an increase in caproic acid content. The correlation coefficients involving protein content of corn hybrids with oil content (r = 0.066) and with saturated fatty acid (SFA) (r=0.247*) evidence that protein content is more related to fatty acid distribution than the oil quantity. Linear relationships between refractive index (RI) (nD40 C) and saturated fatty acid (r = 0.369**) and between refractive index and oleic acid (r = 0.364**), and between iodine number (IN) and unsaturated fatty acid (UFA) were determined. In addition, oleic acid is strongly correlated with linoleic (r=0.769**) and linolenic acids (r=0.335**).
23790309|Hordeum chilense Roem. et Schult. is a South American wild barley that occurs exclusively in Chile and Argentina, where it is a component of natural pastures. This species has been crossed with durum and bread wheats to obtain a new amphiploid, called tritordeum, which presents agronomic traits of a new crop. Two groups represented by H1 and H7 lines have shown differences for spike length and density, number of spikelets per spike and various other characters which are interesting for tritordeum improvement. This study was conducted to investigate inheritance of these three characters in a cross between H1 and H7 lines, including parents, F 1 and F 2 generations. The three characters studied fitted the additive model. The dominance effects were less strong than the additive effects, indicating partial dominance of positive sign for number of spikelets per spike; whereas spike length displayed small dominance effects of negative sign and the spike density showed intermediate inheritance, with the inheritance being almost exclusively additive.
23790302|Bulk segregant analysis (BSA) was used to identify molecular markers associated with yellow rust disease resistance in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). DNAs isolated from the selected yellow rust tolerant and susceptible F2 individuals derived from a cross between yellow rust resistant and susceptible wheat genotypes were used to established a "tolerant" and a "susceptible" DNA pool. The BSA was then performed on these DNA pools using 230 markers that were previously mapped onto the individual wheat chromosomes. One of the SSR markers (Xgwm382) located on chromosome group 2 (A, B, D genomes) was present in the resistant parent and the resistant bulk but not in the susceptible parent and the susceptible bulk, suggesting that this marker is linked to a yellow rust resistance gene. The presence of Xgwm382 was also tested in 108 additional wheat genotypes differing in yellow rust resistance. This analysis showed that 81% of the wheat genotypes known to be yellow rust resistant had the Xgwm382 marker, further suggesting that the presence of this marker correlates with yellow rust resistance in diverse wheat germplasm. Therefore, Xgwm382 could be useful for marker assisted selection of yellow rust resistances genotypes in wheat breeding programs.
23784218|The relationship between the high Mr glutenin subunit alleles and components of bread-making quality (BMQ) in 160 wheat cultivars grown in Novi Sad were studied. Significant differences were observed among alleles within Glu-1 loci for some bread-making quality components. The null allele at the Glu-A1 locus had the largest positive effect on all the BMQ components (except loaf volume) when compared with its counterparts (1 and 2*), only in presence of subunits 2+12 (in Glu-D1). In cultivars with 5+10 (in Glu-D1), subunit 2* was superior to subunit 1 and to the null allele.
23786095|Powdery mildew caused by the pathogen Blumeria graminis (DC.) Golovin ex Speer f. sp. hordei Em. Marchal is one of the most serious foliar diseases of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) in Europe. This study was conducted to determine the number of genes, the types of genes action and the gene loci conferring resistance to powdery mildew in two selections E 1059-1-1, E 1067-1-2. These lines were selected from barley landraces collected were collected during expedition organized by Warsaw Agricultural University SGGW-AR in Southern Morocco (Agadir Province). Two types of crosses were made: (1) the lines were crossed with the susceptible cultivar Pallas, (2) the lines were crossed with six Pallas isolines with Mla3 (isoline P2), Mla12 (isoline P10), Mlp (isoline P19), Mlat (isoline P20), Mlg (isoline P21) and mlo5 (isoline P22) genes for resistance. The parents, F1, F2, F3 were evaluated for the powdery mildew resistance with isolate R303.1. On the basis of segregation ratios it was found that resistance in tested lines was determine by a single dominant gene at the locus Mla. Results are compared with previous study in which the presence of genes in Mla locus was postulated based on testing of these lines with 30 differential isolates of powdery mildew. The possible use of new identified sources of resistance to powdery mildew was discussed.
23783069|Seventy-four accessions of barley that were selected from the U.S. Department of Agriculture World Collection of Barley to represent major barley-growing areas of the world were crossed and then backcrossed four times onto the male sterility inducing cytoplasm, msml. Alternating generations of crosses and backcrosses and the recurrent parents were grown in Arizona (32.27 N) and Montana (45.41 N). The amount of selfed seed set was determined on plants in the msml cytoplasm of all lines in all generations. Only 18 (24.4%) lines were completely male sterile in all five generations and none of the 74 lines completely restored male fertility. No relationship between maintenance of male sterility or of partial restoration of male fertility and geographical origin of the accessions was detected. Partial restoration of male fertility of many of the lines appeared to be influenced by the environment. In general, the amount of selfed seed set on plants with the msml cytoplasm was greater in Arizona than in Montana.
90003486|Osmotic adjustment represents one of the most important mechanisms of plant stress responses to drought and some other stresses. Accumulation of soluble compounds in plant cells enables turgor maintenance, improved soil water extraction and water saving; moreover, organic compounds (e.g. proline) provide stabilization and protection of cell membrane system. In our experiments with varieties of winter wheat we observed the changes in osmotic potential of leaf tissues during progressing drought stress. In addition, we determined free proline content in leaves using spectrophotometric method. The obtained data showed important differences among genotypes in capacity of accumulation of osmotic active compounds. We observed two groups of genotypes: with high and low osmotic adjustment. Similar distribution of genotypes was observed also for accumulation of free proline. The higher osmotic adjustment was correlated with delayed stomatal closure and thus can be considered as advantageous for higher photosynthetic assimilation in water limited growing conditions in wheat. Moreover, osmotic adjustment showed high level of correlation with grain yield maintenance in observed genotypes.
23783877|Dn5, a gene for Russian wheat aphid resistance that was derived from the wheat accession PI 294994, was allocated to chromosome arm 7DL. Dn5 was found not to be linked to the chromosome 7D centromere.
90002680|The dynamics of growth and yield in winter wheat is in part a genetically determined trait, but also depends on environmental conditions. Among the environmental factors, the growth and yield responses of three diverse genotypes to the nutrient supply level were investigated. In 2007 the dry matter production of winter wheat was found to depend primarily on the N supplies, with similar responses being given by all the varieties. Differences were observed, however, between the reproductive (spike) mass and the leaf area index (LAI) as a function of both N supplies and variety. Under the given experimental conditions the early maturing variety Mv Palots had the most favourable fertiliser response. With rising N rates there was an increase in LAI and dry mass, while the reproductive yield (dry spike mass, grain mass per square metre) was highest at the 160 kg ha
23782763|Influence of fast and slow changes of temperature on carbon dioxide exchange rate (CER) of six cultivars of wheat and seven cultivars of rye was studied. Temperature optimum.of photosynthesis during fast changes of temperature was from 24 to 27C, and was about 3C lower during slow changes of temperature. Response of CER of both wheat and rye cultivars to an increase of temperature from 18C to the optimum was higher during fast changes of temperature. Above the optimum, a decrease of CER was lower for wheat and was independent of fast and slow changes of temperature. At 5C, CER of rye cultivars was higher than that of wheat, with the exception of wheat cultivar Grana which had CER values 2-fold higher than other wheat plants. After temperature decrease from 31 to 16C a post-lower temperature burst of CO2 was observed.
90003363|The soil  as the most utilized biotic factor in food production  is one oft the main renewable energy resources (Vrallyay, 2007) and also the key factor of rational and environmental friendly use of the sustainable development. The environmental stressors as: soil, weather, nutrients, etc. are greatly influencing the successfulness of agricultural production. With a logical farming we can alleviate both environmental and anthropogenic impact with an applying of precision techniques (e.g. tillage, site site-specific nutrient and chemical assignment, yield and moisture measuring during harvest). The grain moisture varies on filed not only during the season or the day, but especially spatially, therefore to determine the exact harvest time, as an alleviating biotic tool a continuous measurement of this parameter is required. During my investigations I compared an on-field, combine mounted capacitance moisture sensor results with the filling of the grain tank and a NIT (Near Infrared Transmittance) sensor mounted on a clean grain elevator. With our near-infrared on-combine grain analyzer we are capable to record also oil and protein content beside moisture that makes the whole measurement more valuable. Based on the new results an earlier measuring method (capacitance) should be corrected or a new one (NIT) could be used.
23787190|Research has shown that the two most important factors in maize yield formation in Hungary are water and nutrient supply. Utilising eleven years of data from a long-term maize field experiment at the Debrecen University Ltkp Experimental Station, the interaction between irrigation and nutrient supply of maize was analysed. Calculations were made to determine the schedule of irrigation based on soil moisture, precipitation, and transpiration. The experiment had three levels of nutrient supply: plots without fertilisation (T1); fertilised plots at rates of 120 kg ha1 N, 90 kg ha1 P and 106 kg ha1 K (T2); and fertilised plots of 240 kg ha1 N, 180 kg ha1 P and 216 kg ha1 K (T3). Statistical methods of stability and relative stability analysis were used to evaluate the effects of irrigation and fertilisation on grain yield. Nutrition treatments behaved differently in non-irrigated and irrigated plots. Without irrigation, if the environment was unfavourable the control yield was greater and more stable than fertilised treatments. In high yielding environments, fertilised treatments produced similar amounts grain. In the case of irrigation, the yield of fertilised plots exceeded the yield of the control, irrespective of the environment. In irrigated plots, fertilised treatments reacted similarly, but the most stable treatment was treatment T2.
23786117|The objective of this study was to establish the competitive ability of Argentinean wheat (Triticum aestivum L) varieties in competence with Lolium multiflorum, and to determine the nitrogen level influence in the competitive process. Fields experiments were conducted at the La Plata National University Experimental Station (34S, 58W) La Plata (Argentina) during 1997 and 1998. Two wheat varieties (Klein Cacique and Pro Inta Super) and a local ecotype of L.multiflorum were used. The aggressivity index for above dry matter and grain yield and relative yield total were used as a measure of competitive ability and complementary resources, respectively. The aggressivity index variation due varieties was significant (p<0.05) for above-dry matter at first node detectable of wheat in 1997. No effect of nitrogen fertilization was observed. Neither varieties nor nitrogen fertilization effects were registered at anthesis and maturity. At these crop stages, L.multiflorum had a higher aggressivity than K.Cacique and P.I.Super. Weed registered a higher aggressivity in 0 N2 and 100N2 for grain yield. A higher aggressivity of wheat varieties at first node detectable up to 100 pl.m2 of weed was observed in 1998 for above-dry matter. Higher weed aggressivity than wheat varieties, irrespective of nitrogen application, were obtained at anthesis. There were no resources complementarity (RYT  1) and a complete competence amongst crop-weed association was detected. A higher weed relative growth rate from first node detectable stage could explain this reversion onto weed aggressivity index. The application of nitrogen would result in losses of wheat aggressivity and that these losses would increase with increasing L.multiflorum density.
23787102|The distribution of nitrogen in culms, leaves, chaff and grain at maturity was examined in eight semi-dwarf wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars differing in culm length and maturity, and grown under both low and high nitrogen. There were significant differences between cultivars in days to anthesis and culm length but these were not influenced by the nitrogen treatment. The length of the culm was strongly correlated with the above-ground biomass in both nitrogen treatments (r = 0.52, low nitrogen; r = 0.74, high nitrogen), while the correlations between the length of the culm and plant nitrogen accumulation, total grain weight and total grain nitrogen content, were weaker in both nitrogen treatments with correlation values ranging from r = 0.31 to r = 0.39. In the low nitrogen treatment, nitrogen harvest index increased as the length of the culm increased but it was the reverse under the high nitrogen treatment. The length of the culm was not correlated with grain nitrogen percentage. The correlations between the primary and secondary tillers were positive and moderately high for the nitrogen concentration of grain, culms and leaves, but the correlation was lower for chaff. Mean grain weight and mean nitrogen content per grain from both tiller sources were not substantially different between primary and secondary tillers but values were generally higher for grains from the primary tiller.
90003305|In this study we characterized
23789835|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) grain production in the Central Highlands of Mexico occurs under rainfed conditions. Traditionally this crop has been planted by conventional means in solid stands combined with heavy tillage and lack of ground cover. These practices have been leading to soil erosion in the sloping lands, frequent drought stress, and water logging after occasional heavy rainstorms in the low lands. To ameliorate those constrains, farmers have started to replace the traditional planting system by the planting system on narrow raised beds. However, information on N management and varieties is needed. This 5-yr study was conducted from 1999 to 2003 to test a set of eight wheat genotypes using a raised-bed system to evaluate their performance as affected by N fertilizer management. Three N rates (40, 70 and 100 kg N ha1) were applied at planting, at the end of tillering-early jointing, and split at planting and at the end of tillering-early jointing. Treatments included an unfertilized check plot. Results indicated that the optimum N fertilizer rate for wheat grain production varies from 0 to 40 kg N ha1) depending upon the variety. Nitrogen timing practices had no effect on grain yield but on N use efficiency (NUE). The split application of 40 kg N ha1 increased the NUE. Higher N rates reduced the NUE irrespective of the N timing practice. According to the differential performance among varieties, this study showed that the planting system on narrow raised beds is a variety-specific technology. The relative grain yield, stability, and NUE, indicated that Tlaxcala F2000, Nahuatl F2000 and Romoga F96 are the most adequate varieties for the planting system on narrow raised beds in the Central Highlands of Mexico.
23783815|Type II embryogenic cultures were established from immature embryos using local inbreds and a commercial hybrid on MS medium supplemented with 2 mg/1 2,4-D + 3% sucrose. Genotypic differences have been observed. Aminoacids like L-proline and L-glutamine were found to have an enhancing effect on embryogenic callus frequency. Plant regeneration was observed on MS medium with low levels of 2,4-D and plantlets were normal.
90002789|We have set up a unit that can produce combined, fake-coloured infra and thermal infra pictures, that allows to examine an area in the 500-900 nm and in the 3500-5600 nm spectral range in the same time. In 2006, the remote sensing apparatus of Hungarian Institute of Agricultural Engineering increased with a new high-technology device. The Water- and Environmental Economy Department of the Agricultural University of Debrecen and our Institute with EU support (GVOP) purchased an aerial AISA DUAL type hyperspectral imaging sensor that can produce pictures in the 400-2500 nm spectral range and provides new possibilities for the Hungarian remote sensing practice in the field of agriculture and environmental economy too.
23787205|Interspecific and intergeneric hybridization of euploid and monosomic by chromosomes from 3rd and 5th homeologic groups lines of the varieties Ch. Spring, Bezostaya and Mara of T. Aestivum with the species T. sphaerococcum, var. globosum, T. durum var. 788, T. timopheevi, Agr. intermedium, Ae. ovata and S. cereale, var. Lozen 14 has been performed. It was established that the monosomic condition of the chromosomes from 5th and 3rd homeologic groups of T. aestivum definitely influenced the number and percentage of the obtained hybrid seeds. The effect from the action of the genes, localized in the studied chromosomes was different and specific for the individual crosses. There were variety dependent differences in these genetic systems. Their action was influenced by the genotype characteristics of the mother form and the genes interaction between the parents' forms. Variety dependent differences were expressed better in the intergeneric hybrids and especially in the hybrids with S. cereale and among the interspecific hybrids  in those with T. timopheevi. The intraspecific differentiation of T. aestivum regarding its crossability with Triticeae species is defined not only by the allelic condition of the genes from the series Kr, localized in the chromosomes from 5th homeologic group, but also by the genes in other chromosomes.
23779388|The inheritance of resistance to downy mildew (Sclerospora graminicola (Sacc.) Schroet) disease was studied in ten crosses of pearl millet (Pennisetum typhoides S. & H.). The F2 and test crosses data revealed the presence of duplicate dominant factors in the inheritance of this disease. Gene symbols DM1 DM2, DM1 dm2 and dm1 DM2 were proposed for the resistant genotypes and dm1 dm2 for the susceptible genotypes.
23782803|Naturally infected wheat tissue from the field is a useful source of wheat spindle streak mosaic virus (WSSMV) for purification. This source is readily available and provides large quantities of tissue for obtaining a highly concentrated purified virus. Using field tissue eliminated the need for growing infected plants in growth chambers for a long period of time. Infected field tissue has virus titers equal to tissue produced in growth chambers. A purification procedure consisting of extraction in Tris buffer followed by clarification with chloroform, concentration using polyethylene glycol, and virus/protein separation in sucrose gradients was superior to previously reported procedures. An antiserum was produced from the purified virus which was effective in identifying WSSMV using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with little protein background reactions.
23787271|Qualitative and quantitative changes in glycine betaine, polyamine and proline contents were studied in varieties of common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) differing in origin, drought and salt tolerance during mild and serious drought stress. Flag leaves were used for the quantification of the osmoprotectant concentration and comparable results were obtained from wheat lines. Water potential, water saturation deficit was determined under control and stress conditions, too. The different physiological responses found were due to the different water uptake capacities based on compatible organic solutes. The salt tolerant wheat, Kharchia, accumulates higher amount of proline and glycine betaine than the drought tolerant or sensitive lines. Drought tolerance is a complex character and can be associated with thickness of cuticle, opening and closing of stomata, root depth and extension, hormone composition, osmotic adjustment and antioxidant production. This method based on our results can be used in plant breeding.
23786991|Thirty advanced lines and cultivars were investigated for their specific B-LMW glutenin (LMW-1 and LMW-2) and -gliadin (-42 and -45) composition by SDS-PAGE. Their relationship to SDS-sedimentation volume (SDSS), mixograph development time (MDT) and loaf volume (LFV) were studied. The proportion of genotypes with LMW-2/-45 was much higher than LMW-1/-42 types. Lines with LMW-2/-45 had higher SDSS, MDT and LFV values. Line CD96486 having subunits N, 7+8 and LMW-2/-45 had the highest LFV and it had better values for SDSS and MDT than the rest of the genotypes. The high proportion of advanced lines having LMW-2/-45, which is genetically related to good grain quality, is an advantage for selection of suitable genotypes for intended products. Selection for higher values of SDSS and optimum MDT usually leads to better loaf volume. Screening of genotypes using wheat storage proteins as genetic markers will help to devise an effective breeding program for the region.
23782855|A serious new virus disease of wheats causing considerable yield loss was observed in South Hungary since 1984. The pathogen was identified by comparing its host range, particle morphology and size as wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV). Resistance to WSMV infection has been checked in some winter wheat breeding lines when tested in greenhouse and field conditions.
23783008|Shoot and root tissues of etiolated maize seedlings treated with thiocarbamate herbicides (EPTC, butylate, pebulate, vernolate, molinate and cycloate) contain increased levels of glutathione S-transferase. The enzyme level is increased within 10 h and at herbicide concentrations higher than 10 M.
90002954|The field experiment was conducted (April 2004) on planosol (a = ordinary fertilization, b = a + P1, c = a + P2, d = a + P3, e = a + P1, f = a + P2, g = a + P3, h = a + P2K2). The amounts of added either/or phosphorus (P
23782786|Cell death patterns in the first and fourth stalk internodes, and in the five shank internodes of maize are not well interrelated. The relationship between cell death patterns in cob parenchyma were better with those in shank internodes than those in stalk internodes. Cell death in cobs increased rapidly as grain-filling and maturation progressed. Inoculation of stalk internodes internodes with Diplodia maydis delayed cell death in the shank internodes in all cultivars tested and cell death in cobs of some cultivars. We conclude that where critical studies of shank and ear rot response to fungal pathogens are desired, stalk internodes internodes should not be inoculated or wounded and the amount of naturally occurring stalk rot determined.
23778568|Influence of light intensity levels at certain growth phases of Sona rice on dry matter production, grain yield and yield components was studied during a monsoon season. Dry matter production decreased with reduced light intensity irrespective of growth stages at which light levels were reduced. The reduction in dry matter was due to reduced tillering and death of existing tillers. Reduced light intensity at both phases of growth (vegetative and generative) decreased grain yield. The decrease in grain yield was due to decrease either because of reduced LAI by previous shading or current photosynthesis, due to shading. Decreased light intensity during the generative phase of rice caused greater reduction in grain yield than during early stages of growth due to adverse affects of shade on yield components. Grain yield reductions were closely associated with the yield components. Practical significance of the data obtained in this experiment was discussed in relation tothe augmentation of production in monsoon season of the tropics. It was also suggested that panicle density, a principal factor limiting production in farmers' field needs to be improved.
90002876|Wheat kernel texture differentiates cultivars of hard and soft wheat classes. The kernel hardness is a genetic factor (control by friabilin protein). The friabilin presents in high concentration in soft grain varieties and low concentration in hard grain varieties (Bksi, 2001). Wheat kernel hardness determines quality, flour yield, flour particle-size, water absorption and other quality characteristics of cereals.
23782871|Intergeneric hybrids H.vulgare x T.aestivum were produced by crossing two forms of barley to common wheat variety Saratovskaya 29 with use of an embryoculture. The hybrids were partly female fertile. Plants with 30- or 49-chromosomes were produced after pollination of these hybrids with pollen of different wheat varieties. Additional and alloplasmic forms with high female fertility and partial self-fertility were obtained from barley x wheat hybrids with wheat in the BC3 and BC4.
23787179|Fourteen hexaploid and tetraploid wheat genotypes mostly resistant to Russian wheat aphid (RWA) were subjected to antixenosis, antibiosis, and tolerance tests. Genotypes were then planted in two completely random designs. Seedlings were infested with RWA in one experiment and the other experiment was used as control. Plant height, spike length, grains per spike, 1000 kernel weight, total biomass, and grain yield were assessed in each experiment. The regression of reduction ratio of each character on resistant components was obtained. The relationships between reduction ratios of plant height, grains per spike and total biomass and antibiosis were not significant. Leaf chlorosis was not consistently correlated with plant resistance index and plant tolerance did not show significant relationship with reduction in total biomass.
23781523|By colchicine treatment of diploid wheat-rye (T.monococcum  S.cereale) F1 hybrid the mixoploid plants were obtained. Based on the vegetative propagation of the sectors with doubled chromosomal number and continual selection on the cytological examination basis in their vegetative progeny the stabile amphiploid plants with AARR genome formula were produced, as it was impossible to obtain by self-pollination using gametes of plants after colchicine treatment. According to the hitherto existing results there is much higher fertility of these amphiploid plants in cross-pollinations than in self-pollination.
90003103|Lignite is a potential chemical stabilising agent for a chemical stabilization remediation technology. We studied effects of lignite on immobilization of toxic metals under laboratory conditions. A soil incubation experiment was carried out in a complex experimental system with Cr, Pb, Zn salts with respect to the normalized matrix-plan. After incubation there were assayed the metal fractions with different mobility: nitrohydrochloric acid soluble (total) metal concentration, and distilled water, acetate buffer, Lakanen-Ervi buffer soluble metal concentration for mobile fractions. The strongest stabilisation effect of lignite can be seen in case of Cr while the weakest in case of Zn. It is confirmed that the lignite is a suitable additive for chemical stabilisation during combined chemical- and phytostabilisation of contaminated soils.
90002852|Agricultural machines are often subjected to abrasive wear caused by soil particles. The hard mineral particles of different soils can cause severe wear and damage in working machine elements. To get to know the wear resistance of structural materials and compare the different soil types from the point of abrasive effects laboratory models were developed on the base of system approach and DIN standard recommendations.
23777652|The "molograph" is a special piece of equipment that determines the firmness of maize grain by measuring the quantity of electric power necessary for grinding. The equipment registers a "mologram", where the electric power needed is traced during the course of the experiment, and the surface of the tracing, measured with a planimeter, is expressed in m2. Four maize hybrids and one line were tested with the "molograph" in six series, 50 g each, with 14-14.5 % humidity content. The "molograph" can determine the hardness of maize grain and other cereal grains. With this equipment grain quality, especially raw protein content /r = 0.69/ and oil content /r = 0.93/ of maize can be determined almost precisely. On basis of these preliminary data it seems to us that maize can be classed, as far as its quality is concerned, with the "molograph", and that further experimentation with this technique is entirely justified.
23787567|Based on the approach of maximization of total selection response (response from selection between crosses plus response from selection within crosses), optimum number of crosses and progeny per cross in the breeding of self-fertilizing crops have been determined. Optimum numbers of crosses and maximum selection responses depend on testing capacity, number of selected crosses, number of lines selected from each selected cross, and heritability. For the general case of various numbers of selected crosses and various numbers of selected lines from each selected cross, the main results are: The maximum selection response increases (i) with an increasing testing capacity, (ii) with an increasing heritability, (iii) with a decreasing number of selected crosses and (iv) with a decreasing number of selected lines from each selected cross. If a certain predetermined fraction of the total testing capacity should be finally selected, the maximum selection response (a) exhibits a maximum for very small numbers of selected crosses and then steadily decreases (very slowly) with increasing number of selected crosses, (b) increases with increasing heritability, (c) increases with decreasing selected fraction, and (d) increases with increasing testing capacity.
23792372|Regular disease monitoring is currently carried out in the most important Italian wheat growing areas. In 200708 stem rust was absent in all locations tested except Montelibretti (Rome, Central Italy), where two common wheat varieties "Arsenal" and "Compair" had stem rust infections. Two stem rust pathotypes were identified by testing in the greenhouse a set of differential lines/varieties carrying known genes for resistance to Puccinia graminis. These pathotypes corresponded to races MSK and PTK on the basis of the North American classification system. Genes Sr24 and Sr25 (both derived from Thinopyrum ponticum) and Sr31 (from Secale cereale), were resistant to the Italian pathotypes, and the lines carrying Sr38 (from Triticum ventricosum) were susceptible. Tests were carried out to determine the seedling stem rust response of durum and common wheat cultivars grown in Italy. Many durum wheat genotypes were resistant to MSK and PTK, while several common wheats were susceptible. The different response of the two species could be due to the source (common wheat) of stem rust inoculum. Molecular PCR markers, linked to Sr24, Sr25, Sr31 and Sr38, were used to detect their presence/absence in the genetic background of the durum and common wheat cultivars. The presence of Sr31 was shown in only two common wheat cultivars ("Colledoro" and "Sollario"), while several genotypes carried Sr38. No common wheat genotype was positive (to PCR analysis) for the presence of Sr24 or Sr25 genes, whereas no durum wheat was positive for the presence of Sr24, Sr25, Sr31 or Sr38.
23779381|An attempt was made to map genes Pm3a for seedling resistance to powdery mildew and Hg for hairy glumes with the aid of a IAS telocentric chromosome and by test-crossing and selfing procedures. Both genes segregated independently of the centromere. Consequently the gene order with respect to the centromere could not be determined. Marked telocentric stocks carrying these marker genes separately, or in coupling, should be available following seed increase.
23789314|As in the case of other wheat diseases, adult plant resistance (APR) to powdery mildew remains effective longer than monogenic hypersensitive resistance, so the objective was to identify winter wheat genotypes with this type of resistance. Field and greenhouse tests conducted on 41 varieties and breeding lines indicated that 36 were susceptible in the seedling stage, and only five were resistant in all stages of development. It is probable that these latter genotypes contain major resistance genes. The area under the disease progress curve was the same for most of the wheat genotypes as for the APR control variety Massey, but varieties and lines with significantly better resistance were also identified. Among the genotypes in the Martonvsr breeding stock, Mv Tltos and the line Mv07-03 were found to have excellent adult plant resistance.
90003503|There are stresses and threats to living plants when they meet a dead material or construction through technology. Among normal circumstances harvesting causes the biggest stress to plants because there is a direct contact between the living plant and the dead machine. In our paper the living material is illustrated by dry peas and the dead material by the harvesting machines. We examine the extent of the effects on losses and profitability caused by the machines.
90002649|
               
90002800|The field experiment with four rates of phosphorus (P) fertilization was conducted in spring of 2004 with treatments as follows: a) ordinary fertilization (kg ha-1: 200 N + 80 P2O5 + 120 K2O); b) a + 500 kg P2O5; c) a + 1000 kg P2O5; and d) a + 1500 kg P2O5. In the next three years (2005-2007) only ordinary fertilization was applied and residual effects of applied fertilization were tested. Drought and high-temperature stresses were main factors of maize yield dropping for the 2007 growing season because it was even 60% lower than in the previous year (means 3.41 and 7.63 t ha-1, respectively). Under these conditions it was not found effect of applied fertilization However, under favourable conditions of the 2006 growing season, residual effects of P fertilization resulted by yield increases up to 20%. Also, maize responded on the P fertilizations by yield increases up to 32% and 17%, for 2004 and 2005, respectively. Residual effects of P fertilization on leaf nutritional status was found (testing for 2006 only). For example, leaf P, K Cu, and Cd were increased (for 11%, 7%, 25% and 53%, respectively: status on the control = 0.33% P, 1.93% K, 13.1 mg Cu and 0,172 mg Cd kg-1). At the same time, leaf Mg, Mn, Cr, B, Ba and Al were decreased (for 14%, 13%, 16%, 31%,25% and 28%: status on the control = 0.146% Mg, mg kg-1 = 37.3 Mn, 0.28 Cr,4.41 B, 2.8 Ba and 47.8 Al). For remaining tested elements (Ca, S, Zn, Fe, Mo, Ni, SR, Na and Co) differences were non-significant. Grain composition was less depended on fertilization and only for four tested elements significant differences were found as follows: increasing influences for S (+17%), Zn (+25%) and Ni (+54%) and decreasing influences for Sr (-15%)  status on the control = 0.78% S, 20.0 mg Zn, 0.94 mg Ni and 0.69 mg Sr kg-1).
23783005|Inheritance studies of coleoptile length and plant height indicated the absence of epistasis. Importance of additive component with partial dominance was apparently revealed. Coleoptile length exhibited close correlation with plant height in parents. F1's and F2's means and estimates of general combining ability effects. However, the association between the two characters for specific combining ability effects and parental order of dominance of dominant and recessive alleles among the parents was rather weak, thus demonstrating non-pleiotropic effects associated with the expression of coleoptile length and plant height. The results, including monosomic analysis indicated that long coleoptile could not be combined with semidwarf wheat in crosses involving Norin-10 'Olesen Dwarf' and 'Tom Thumb' sources of dwarfism.
23783756|Chemical and physical mutagens were used to induce desirable variability in Triticale cv. Lasko. Selection was done mainly for semi-dwarfness and grain characteristic. MNH in concentration of 1.0 and 1.5 mM and fast neutrons with a dose of 600 rad were applied. The main selection was done in the M3 generation. 234 mutants were selected in total. Some of the most promising mutant lines were evaluated in microtrials in comparison with cv. Lasko.
90002996|Symbiotic nitrogen fixation is a key process for agricultural sustainability. Sustainable soybean production strongly rely on biologically fixed nitrogen that can be ensured by application of high quality rhizobial inoculants. The main aim of this study was to evaluate the symbiotic properties of selected indigenous and reference
23783742|Progress on the production of haploids in barley via anther and microspore culture appears to have achieved a breakthrough in the past year. This has been achieved through media alterations of sugars, N source and hormones with the basic MS media. More genotypes need to be tried in order to determine the role of genotype with the media. Although albinos are still produced, the proportion of green plants is much higher. Microspore culture in barley can be achieved through either shed pollen or mechanical isolation and would appear to be a potential replacement for anther culture procedures. While progress is being made with wheat anther cultures, the new procedures developed for barley have not been successful. Similarly, microspore culture in wheat is not as successful as in barley. Further research on field evaluation of anther or microspore derived doubled haploids is required. As embryo production becomes the norm, the level of gametoclonal variation may decrease. At present, gametoclonal variation is quite extensive in doubled haploids derived from anther culture as illustrated in wheat. Evaluation of doubled haploids in barley produced from the Bulbosum Method is continuing. Recurrent selection has not made significant progress for yield but a quantitative basis for improved powdery mildew resistance is evident. With further improvements, the isolated microspore culture system may become a tool for monocot transformation and mutation.
23786106|The duration of the basic vegetative phase (measured as the time from transplanting to awn appearance and final number of leaves after four weeks cold treatment at 4C and growth under an 18 h photoperiod) was determined for the barley cultivars Galleon and Parwan on four, and Schooner on three occasions with different mean temperatures during each experiment. The length of the basic vegetative phase decreased as the mean temperature increased although the ranking between the three cultivars remained consistent. The final number of leaves for each cultivar, however, was not influenced by mean temperature; ie, it was a more intrinsic character than time to awn appearance. A measure of basic vegetative phase, therefore, should always include a record of the final number of leaves on the main culm. Seedlings of the cultivars Galleon and Parwan (which vary for basic vegetative phase and photoperiod response) were interchanged between a short (normal daylength) and a long (normal daylength extended to 18 h) photoperiod at various times up to 22 days after seedling emergence. This technique was used to determine the length of time after seedling emergence that the plants are insensitive to photoperiod. The results showed that the duration of the photoperiod insensitive phase lasted for six to eight days for Galleon and 18 to 22 days for Parwan. Flower initiation, which coincides with the initiation of the final leaf, started between 10 and 12 days for Galleon and at or after 22 days for Parwan. These data suggest that the duration of the photoperiod insensitive phase is associated with the length of the basic vegetative phase and ends sometime before the start of flower initiation.
90002710|The effect of liming and different rates of mineral fertilizers upon the changes in the soil chemical properties were monitored on two sites in the eastern Croatia. After liming (10 t ha
23784258|Forty-three common wheat accessions previously selected for resistance to the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilka), were tested for resistance to the wheat curl mite, Eriophyes tulipae Keifer, which is the vector of wheat streak mosaic. The following lines were resistant in laboratory and greenhouse tests: CI 9355, PI 221699, PI 222651, PI 222655, PI 222661, PI222679, PI222680, and PI 222682. Resistance to WCM is available from wheat relatives, but this is the first report of resistance in common wheats.
23785316|Six corn hybrids were tested, how the susceptibility to maize dwarf mosaic potyvirus strain A (MDMV-A) is influenced by the age of the plants. Seeds were planted with 1 week delay in greenhouse at four replications, 25 plants per replication. The plants were inoculated in 2, 4, and 6 leaf stage. Mechanical inoculation with MDMV-A was carried out simultaneously for each development stage. The number of the plants with mosaic symptoms was recorded after inoculation on every 2nd or 3rd day, until the disease incidence did not increase. The tested corn hybrids responded in a different way to the inoculation. The corn hybrids Pa405xMo17 and Oh514xMo17 remained symptomless at every development stage even on the 40th day after inoculation. Disease incidence in corn hybrid CO255xCM7 was similar in each development stage, but first symptoms appeared two days earlier in plants inoculated at 2 leaf stage, than at those inoculated at a later stage. In case of corn hybrids GK202xGK211, Dea SC, and A632xVa35 the disease incidence was significantly less in the plants inoculated at 6 leaf stage than in the plants inoculated at 2 leaf stage. This suggests that resistance in these hybrids evolve only after a certain development stage.
90003031|The paper is focused on evaluation of climate change influence on soil water content in Danubian Lowland. Impact assessment was carried out on base of simulation results obtained by agroecological model Daisy. The meteorological data have been generated according to general circulation model CCCM for emission scenarios SRES A2 and SRES B2. Five field crops were used for modelling study. According to statistical analyses of simulation results the increasing of variability and the decreasing of soil water content is expected in vegetation period of researched region.
23787298|In the present study, potato extract was used as an additive supplemented to a synthetic induction medium in anther culture of wheat (Triticum aestivum), attempting to make reasonable utilization of potato extract and improve the efficiency of this induction medium. The concentration of the potato extract in the medium was 5% (water extract from 50g of potato tubers for a litre of medium), the basic synthetic medium used was W14 medium, but the inorganic salts (except iron) and the vitamins were reduced to three fourths of the original strength of W14 medium. The experimental results showed that the potato-extract-supplemented W14 medium could elicit more pollen-derived calli (or embryoids) and these calli possessed greater green shoot regeneration ability compared with both the original W14 medium and a modified W14 medium in which the five major inorganic salts were each reduced to three fourths strength of the original W14 medium, and in turn the calli produced on the original W14 medium possessed greater green shoot regeneration ability compared with the modified W14 medium. However there were no significant differences in albino shoot differentiation frequency of the calli between the above-mentioned three media, it varied only with different genotypes of the anther-donors. This indicates that the medium components affecting green shoot regeneration would not certainly affect albino shoot regeneration as well.
90003036|Field experiments were conducted over two years to characterize maize inbred responses to herbicide nicosulphuron. In the first year of research (1999), 30 maize inbreds were tested (preliminary screening). Based on the first year results, eight inbreds were selected and evaluated in the second year of research (2000). Herbicide nicosulphuron was applied at the permitted (48 g a.i. ha
90003308|The JKI's own culture collection contains over 7500 strains of micro-organisms. 2571 of these represent
90003504|Land use is a major stressor influencing agroecosystems. Limited land is available globally to grow food, feed and fuel and there are direct and indirect pressures on forests and other lands to be converted. There is a future for a sustainable biofuels industry but that feedstock production must avoid agricultural land that would otherwise be used for food production. Advanced technologies have significant potential, but may only produce biofuels with higher greenhouse gas (GHG) savings if feedstock production avoids use of existing agricultural land that leads to indirect land-use change. Mechanisms do not yet exist to accurately measure, or to avoid, the effects of indirect land-use change from biofuels. Current lifecycle analyses of GHG-effects fail to take account of indirect land-use change and avoided land use from co-products. Consequently, the net GHG emissions from current biofuel targets cannot be assessed with certainty, and there is a risk that any biofuel target could lead to a net increase in GHG emissions. GHG-based targets may result in a greater land requirement, and land-use change, than a volume or energy-based target; and second generation biofuels using feedstock grown on existing agricultural land may cause greater net land-use change than first generation biofuels that also produce co-products that avoid land use. However, support of carbon taxes and broad-based oil taxes is currently limited.
90002655|Influence of soil reaction on phosphorus content and dynamics in grapevine (V
23787069|The herbicide chlorate has been used extensively for isolation of mutants or for selection of transgenic plants defective in nitrate reduction. Chlorate, acting as an analogue of nitrate, is substrate of the enzyme nitrate reductase (NR), which reduces chlorate to the toxic chlorite. Plants being lack of NR function are resistant to chlorate. In this work chlorate resistance was used to control the efficiency of gene transfer cnx1 antisense in wheat. Cnx1 was transferred with cotransformation of pAHC25 containing bar and gus into immature embryo-derived calli of a spring wheat genotype (CY-45) by microprojectile bombardment. The nitrate  chlorate interaction was investigated via nitrate reductase activity (NRA) assay and necrotic symptoms of chlorate toxicity. The optimal conditions of chlorate resistance test signalling the decrease of NRA were determined, and found to be 0.4 mM nitrate for NR induction, and 7 mM chlorate content for evoking greatest differences in toxic symptoms. We succeeded to regenerate of 10 plantlets resistant to phosphinothricine (PPT) indicating the expression of bar, and 6 of them were fertile producing 6 PPT resistant transgenic lines. Among the T1 progenies of PPT transgenics, two (designated as 117 and 124) showed a significant reduction of NRA. Though T2 progenies had a less decreased NRA in the mean of the population, but a higher chlorate resistance as compared to that of the control was still experienced.
23786266|A partial amphiploid Triticum aestivum cv. 'Chinese Spring' x Aegilops ovata was backcrossed to 'Chinese Spring' to produce wheat-Ae. ovata addition lines. Using the chromosome N-banding technique five different Ae. ovata chromosomes were identified as additions to the wheat genome in the backcross-derivatives. Plants with 2n=43 carried either single alien chromosome as monosomic addition, or more than one alien chromosomes as addition-substitution. The 44-chromosome plants were identified as disomic additions, double monosomic additions, or addition-substitutions. Some of the alien chromosomes had modified heterochromatin structure in comparison with the corresponding chromosomes of the Aegilops ovata parent.
23785358|Aflatoxins are carcinogenic metabolites produced by several members of the Aspergillus flavus group in grains and foods. Three genes: ver-1, omt-1 and apa-2, coding for key enzymes and a regulatory factor in aflatoxin biosynthesis respectively, have been identified and their DNA sequences published. In the present study, three primer pairs were generated, each complementing the coding portion of one of the genes. DNA extracted from mycelia of five Aspergillus species, four Penicillium species and two Fusarium species were used as PCR templates for each of the primer pairs. DNA extracted from peanut, corn and three insect species commonly found in stored grains was also tested. Positive results (DNA amplification) were achieved only with DNA of the aflatoxigenic molds A. parasiticus and A. flavus in all three primer pairs. The detection limit of the PCR was determined using the primer pairs complementing the omt-1 and ver-1 genes. Sterile corn flour was inoculated separately with six different molds, each at several spore concentrations. Positive results were only obtained following a 24-h incubation in enriched media, with extracts of corn inoculated with A. parasiticus or A. flavus, even at the lowest spore concentration applied (102 spores/g). No DNA amplification was observed from corn inoculated with other molds, even at the highest inoculum level (106 spores/g).
23783885|In offspring of 4500 selected spikes (breeder's seed) in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em Thell) cv. PITOMA, 17 sterile and deformed spikes were found. They were divided into three groups, basically by their phenotypic characteristics. For the purpose of detection causes of such phenomena, the cytogenetic analysis of seedlings obtained from seeds of atypical spikes has been carried out. The cytogenetic analysis showed a decrease of mitotic index (MI) in Group I and Group II of atypical spikes (17.5% and 61.9%, respectively) and increase of MI (14.5%) in the third group of atypical spikes in comparison with the control. The frequency of chromosomal aberrations ranged from 0.5% (in Group III) to 7.3% (in Group II). The chromosomal bridges were the most represented types of chromosomal aberrations in all three groups. Possible connections between the observed spikes abnormalities and influence of herbicide Dicuran (79.25% chlortoluron) could be predicted in consideration of the type and frequency of chromomal aberrations.
23786064|This paper describes the results of a field experiment carried out in India at Shalimar Campus of Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Science and Technology during winter season of 1995-96. The objective of the trial was to study the effect of 4 cutting regimes and 5 graded doses of nitrogen on oat biomass production(fodder, grain and straw) and quality. Plant height and number of tillers were adversely affected by increasing cutting intensity whereas increase in nitrogen levels resulted in improvement in the above two parameters. The grain yield attributes (panicle/m row length, grains/panicle and test weight) were all favourably placed in a no-cut system and increased nitrogen levels upto 80 kg/ha helped to improve these as well. Maximum green and dry fodder was recorded with two cuts (one each in autumn and spring) whereas maximum grain or straw was obtained when crop left for seed only. Fodder (green and dry) and straw yields increased significantly upto 160 kg nitrogen/ha, however grain production response was significant only upto 80 kg N/ha. Highest protein yields/ha were obtained in a pure grain crop of oats or in that crop where two cuts were taken. Increase in N levels resulted in an overall significant enhancement in both protein content and total protein yield/ha
90003001|Investigation of influences of precipitation and temperatures on grain yield of 8 genotypes of field pea was conducted in conditions of east Croatia. Locations, genotypes and interaction between them had highly significant effect on grain yield. Rainfall from February to May and rainfall during the pea vegetation were in very high positive correlation with average yield of pea, whilst temperatures in May and Jun were in negative correlation. Semigley soil type provided higher average yield than eutric cambisol in 2005.
23787108|Corn is an important crop in northern Turkey, where it is used mainly as a source of energy for animal and food for human. Two-yr field experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of plant density on the green herbage and dry matter yield (Experiment I); the grain yield and yield components (Experiment II) of hybrid corn. In both experiments, four hybrids, Sele, RX-770, RX-899, and RX-947 were grown at 51 282, 60 154, 76 923, and 102 564 plants/ha. Regression equations on the mean green herbage and grain yields of each hybrid estimated optimum plant density of each hybrid. There was a significant difference among hybrids with respect to green herbage and dry matter yield. Maximum green herbage and dry matter yields were obtained at RX-947. Plant density significantly affected green matter and dry matter yields. The highest green herbage and dry matter yields were obtained at 102 564 plants/ha. Hybrid x plant density interactions were not significant for both traits. Differences among hybrids for grain yield and yield components were significant, and RX-899 gave grain yield more than other hybrids. It was observed that plant density had a significant effect on grain yield and yield components. There also was a significant hybrid x plant density interaction for grain yield. The highest grain yield for Sele, RX-770, RX-947 were obtained at 76 923 plants/ha, for RX-899 was obtained at 60 154 plants/ha.
23778595|Seed of three spring triticale genotypes was divided into three groups, large, unsorted and small, to determine the effect of seed size and weight on coleoptile length, fresh weight and dry weight. Colsoptiles produced by large seeds were significantly longer than those derived from unsorted and small seeds. The fresh weight of coleoptiles produced by large seeds was significantly higher in two of the three genotypes; in the third line, there were no differences among coleoptiles produced by large and unsorted seeds. In all instances, small seeds produces significantly lighter coleoptiles. In the three genotypes, the dry weight of coleoptiles derived from large seeds was significantly higher.
23787579|In a twenty five years old long-term fertilizer experiment with rice-wheat-cowpea system on a mollisol at Pantnagar; rice and wheat responded well to applied N, Zn and FYM over the years; whereas, responses to other applied nutrients are improving with the passage of time owing to decline in their availability in soil. Uptake of micronutrients by the entire cropping sequence of rice-wheat-cowpea varied from 143 to 597, 2274 to 6169, 384 to 1234 and 119 to 521 g ha1 for Zn, Fe, Mn and Cu, respectively. The highest removal of Zn by crops was observed under 100%NPK+Zn, while that of Fe, Mn and Cu was under 100%NPK+FYM. Removal of micronutrients by the annual cropping cycle depleted the availability of Zn, Fe, Mn and Cu in soil in the range of 0.02 - .0.37, 0.1-1.8, 0.1-1.6 and 0.1 - 0.2 mg kg1, respectively under different treatments.
23781324|Gamma-ray induced semidward mutants of two tall indica rice varieties, T 141 and GEB 24, were compared with their respective control for the associated changes in the components of panicale morphology, viz. length of the panicle axis, numbers and lengths of the primary and secondary branches, their distribution along the panicle axis, and the total number of spikelets per panicle. It was observed that concomitant with the reduction in plant height, different panicle component characters had also changed, almost all in the direction of plant height change. The pattern of change in both mutants, as compared to their respective control, differed in degrees rather than in kind. Underlying genetic bases of such changes have been discussed.
90003199|Wheat scab is a serious disease in South China, especially in the mid-lower reaches of the Yangtze River. This paper highlights significant progress made on inheritance and breeding for wheat scab resistance at Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences (JAAS).
23789910|A barley mapping population consisting of 96 doubled haploid lines of anther culture origin was developed from the varieties Dicktoo and Kompolti Korai, which represent diverse types with respect to geographical origin and ecological adaptation. Several molecular marker techniques were used in mapping: among the markers with known chromosome location, RFLP, STS and SSR markers were applied to identify linkage groups and for comparative mapping, while RAPD and AFLP markers, which have random binding but provide useful information on polymorphism, were employed to fill in the linkage groups with markers. A total of 496 markers were tested in the DH population, 246 of which were included in the linkage map after eliminating markers that were completely linked with each other. The ratio of markers with known chromosome location to random markers in the 1107 cM map was one to three, and the mean recombination distance between the markers was 4.5 cM. Application of various marker methods and the effect of the population structure on the development of marker linkage maps are discussed.
90003158|Fusarium head blight (FHB) of oat in western Canada was determined to be caused by a complex of Fusarium species, the composition and proportions of which varied considerably among years, and between Manitoba and Saskatchewan, the two main oat production regions (provinces) in western Canada. The levels of deoxynivalenol (DON), associated with Fusarium graminearum infection, were considerably higher in oat than in wheat and especially in barley, when levels of DON were compared to those of F. graminearum on seed, suggesting that oat may stimulate production of the mycotoxin by this causal species during the infection process, compared to that in other cereals. Testing of oat cultivars and lines for reaction to FHB indicated that while differences existed, these were relatively small. Naked oats, in general, were more resistant. Several of the exotic oat accessions tested appeared to have superior levels of resistance and these are being used as parents in crosses to improve resistance in adapted, high quality oats.
90003104|Copper is an inevitable microelement for plants. Its biological role is very important, especially in enzyme activity in order that plants receive sufficient copper supply. Therefore their replacement is essential. Foliar treatments were launched with copper-tetrammine complex on winter wheat in small plot trials. Treatments were applied at phenological state of flowering, on alluvial Danube soil in Darnzseli in 2007. Copper treatments resulted in significant yield increase. Raw protein and gluten content increased as well.
23781387|Hungary lies near the northern border of the European maize production area. The length of the growing season is quite different in different regions of the country. On the basis of this characteristic the area of the country was divided into 5 zones. The establishment of these zones would permit maize producers to choose the most suitable hybrid, and at the same time it would guarantee production. So it would be more reasonable to give the length of the growing season /in days/ for the 5 zones instead of the FAO-grouping of hybrids. Although the ratio and the number of hybrids of different maturation groups are quite different in each zone, one can conclude that in Hungary - considering the environmental conditions, the production and economical possibilities - first of all the hybrids of the FAO groups 300 and 400 are worthy of production. /FAO numbers are used here because of the quick change of hybrids/.
90003191|In spite of progresses realized toward understanding resistance to FHB in wheat, the improvement of field resistance has been slow and often largely based on Chinese source Sumai 3 although other resistance sources have been identified. The slow progress and absence of major breakthrough in resistance improvement in recent years is due to the complex nature of resistance. Since targeted crosses to further improve resistance to FHB are needed, we evaluated in detail Type I and Type II resistance in a set of lines that have emerged as promising for FHB tolerance in CIMMYTs wheat program. Lines with confirmed combination of Type I and Type II resistance should receive higher attention for future targeted crosses.
90002833|The species composition of mown, grazed and long-term unmanaged permanent grasslands in relation to the site conditions expressed through selected Ellenbergs indicator values and the nutrient content in the soil. A significant prevalence of nitrophilous species at pastures grazed by cows and of species undemanding for nutrients on long-term unmanaged lands. The influence of management on species diversity was not demonstrated.
23785233|The aim of this paper was to study the behaviour of a wheat cultivar inoculated with Bipolaris sorokiniana under different tillage methods and nitrogen fertilization. In field inoculation tests the tillage methods used were: conventional tillage (CT) and no-till (NT) both under no-nitrogen (N0) and application of 90 kg N/ha (as urea) splitted half at sowing and half at the end of tillering (N1). Wheat heads were sprayed at anthesis with a conidial suspension of B. sorokiniana and covered with plastic bags. At ripeness, the ears were collected and handthreshed. The seeds were analyzed by the blotter test method, following the rules given by the International Seed Testing Association (ISTA). The presence of the fungus was confirmed by the development of a dark brown mycelium on the grains surface. A higher number of contaminated seeds with Bipolaris sorokiniana and a higher proportion of contaminated seeds no germinated were found under CT than NT, which could be related to differences in plant senescence.
90003192|Five genotypes of wheat were artificially infected with
23787184|Micronutrient malnutrition afflicting globally over two billion people can be reduced by improving major staple food crops through traditional plant breeding. This study was conducted to ascertain genotypic variability and prospects of maize breeding for higher concentrations of boron (B), copper (Cu), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni), and zinc (Zn) in grain among 121 genotypes. Genetic material was set and grown in a field trial in Eastern Croatia in 1998 and 1999. Micronutrient contents were determined by an ICPOES (inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry). Significant differences among genotypes were found for all micronutrient concentrations using analyses of variance. The grain concentration ranges were 0.5-6.1 (B), 0.5-3.4 (Cu), 11.0-60.7 (Fe), 4.7-14.8 (Mn), 0.1-1.0 (Ni), and 11.9-33.2 (Zn) (all in mg/kg dry weight). The greatest repeatability estimates were obtained for Cu (85.1% and 83.3%), Mn content (58.2% and 73.0%), and Zn content (48.2% and 50.9%) in 1998 and 1999, respectively. Combined over two years, significant differences among genotypes as well as between years were found for all micronutrients investigated, except for Ni status. Highly significant (at P>0.01) interaction year x genotype was detected only for Cu and Ni content. The highest heritability estimates were found for Cu, Mn and Zn content. Our results suggest that improving micronutrient content in maize genotypes appears to be the most reliable for mn and Zn content due to high repeatability and heritability estimates and parameter stability across environments. Moreover, there were no tight negative associations between micronutrient contents in grain and grain yield indicating a possibility to combine micronutrient-rich traits with high yield.
90003010|Species of the
23790053|Two new y-type HMW-GSs in Ae. tauschii, 1Dy12.1* t and 1Dy12.2 t with the mobility order of 1Dy12.2 t > 1Dy12.1* t > 1Dy12.1 t >1Dy12, were identified by both SDS-PAGE and MALDI-TOF-MS. Molecular cloning and sequencing showed that the genes encoding subunits 1Dy12.1* t and 1Dy12.2 t had identical nucleotide acid sequences with 1,947 bp encoding a mature protein of 627 residues. Their deduced molecular weights were 67,347.6 Da, satisfactorily corresponding to that of 1Dy12.2 t subunit determined by MALDI-TOF-MS (67,015.7 Da), but was significantly smaller than that of the the 1Dy12.1* t subunit (68,577.1 Da). Both subunits showed high similarities to 1Dy10, suggesting that they could have a positive effect on bread-making quality. Interestingly, the expressed protein of the cloned ORF from accessions TD87 and TD130 in E. coli co-migrated with subunit 1Dy12.2 t , but moved slightly faster than 1Dy12.1* t on SDS-PAGE. The expressed protein in transgenic tobacco seeds, however, had the same mobility as the 1Dy12.1* t subunit, as confirmed by both SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. Although direct evidence of phosphoprotein could not be obtained by specific staining method, certain types of post-translational modifications (PTMs) of the 1Dy12.1* t subunit could not be excluded. We believe PTMs might be responsible for the molecular weight difference between the subunits 1Dy12.1* t and 1Dy12.2 t .
90003047|A huge amount of experimental information concerning the effects of N-fertilizers and the pathways of N-transformation in ecosystems is available. The general evaluation of this, however, is hardly possible, while the ecological conditions of the experiments are different and the dynamic studies mostly deal with certain subprocess but neglecting their interactions. In this paper the quantity of amino acids proteins hydrolisable with 6 molar HCl in winter wheat grain was determined by amino acid analyser, while the quantity of free amino acids were analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography (with ophthaldialdehyde reagent) and protein content was measured by acryl-amide gelelectophoresis (PAGE). It can be stated that in the content of protein amino acids the quantity of glutamic acid and proline increased most, but in all other N-fertilised treatments the quantity of amino acids raised apparently. In case of free amino acids, primarily the content of asparagine and leucine, increased compared to the control samples due to the effect of fertiliser. All changes of the measured protein, free amino acids and proteins were significantly different from the control.
90002946|In this study the effects of variety and crop year on the quantitative traits in old and modern winter wheat were investigated. The timing and amount of rainfall during the season, the soils ability to hold water, and crops water requirements are all factors which influence quantitative traits. The highest yielding varieties during four years were Klara and Demetra. In contrast, varieties U1 and Sirban Prolifik had the lowest grain yield, but the highest protein content, wet gluten content and sedimentation value. The highest test weight had variety Super Zitarka. Year 2006 was the most favourable for grain yield and test weight, 2006 and 2005 for sedimentation value, while protein and wet gluten content were the highest in 2004. These results suggest that rainfall in growing season affected soil water which changed quantitative traits of winter wheat.
23783724|Ethylene production by drought-resistant and droughtsensitive genotypes of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] was measured under drought stress to determine if they varied in ethylene production. Plants were grown in sand in a greenhouse. When they were 19 days old, they were watered with tap water (control) or with three different concentrations of polyethylene glycol (PEG) (mol. wt. 8000): 0.5, 1.0, or 1.5 MPa. One day later, ethylene evolution was analyzed. The drought-resistant genotype ('IA 28') produced more ethylene than the drought-sensitive one ('Redlan'), when the plants were watered with tap water or with the 0.5 and 1.0 MPa PEG solutions. Ethylene emission by IA 28 was not related to the level of stress. It produced a high amount of ethylene (between 30 and 60 nL per gram dry weight) under all four treatments. In contrast, the amount of ethylene emitted by Redlan increased as the level of stress increased. Thus, at the highest level of stress (1.5 MPa), it evolved more ethylene than IA 28. The results showed that whether or not a drought-resistant genotype produces more ethylene than a drought-sensitive one depends upon the level of drought stress.
90002814|In the case of diaporthe stalk staining and dry-rot contamination
23783717|Reciprocal F1 wheat variety hybrids and chromosome substitution lines with different varietal and alien cytoplasmic background were developed and tested for frost resistance under controlled environment conditions. A small cytoplasmic effect on frost resistance was revealed in some alloplasmic substitution lines. This slight effect can be explained by differences in the structure of cytoplasmic organelles such as chloroplasts and mitochondria.
23782927|Work on the physiological specialization of wheat powdery mildew has been underway since 1966. During this period fourteen new races have been identified. These were given the numbers 45; 46; 47; 48; 52; 53; 66; 80; 81; 84; 85; 86; 87 and 88 by Nover and Frauenstein. This paper describes the infection types produced by the new races on the differential set and their behaviour with respect to various genes for resistance. The races described are present in varying proportions. On the basis of their extensive occurrence, races 52 and 85 deserve special attention.
90003136|The bioenergy industry offers benefits and threats to soil and water resources. The biofuel industry must have these residues to make liquid fuels and profits. Soil and wter resources need the residues to control soil erosion and maintain water quality. Sustainability of the biofuel industry depends on conserving both soil and water resources. These conflicting issues must be resolved successfully if biofuels are to play a significant role in furnishing the worlds energy supply.
90002772|This research examined influence of different amounts of bovine manure supplemented with technological wastewater on dominant physiological groups of microorganisms in arable soil layer (0-30 cm) of semigley loess type of soil during silage corn vegetation. Exact fertilizing vegetation experiment was conducted in 2006, in 7 variants and 4 repetitions. Amount of manure supplemented with disinfectants applied in arable soil layer was vital for soil biogenity, what had direct influence on silage corn yield. It was determined that smaller amounts of manure (10-30 m
23789836|Discovering the relationships among plant morphological and quantitative features is very important in maize breeding and production, particularly if they can be altered by selection or agro-technical methods. We examined tassel characteristics (tassel weight, tassel stalk diameter, number of primary branches, total length of branches, tassel length from lower and upper branches, Tassel Area Index) and several quantitative features (plant height, ear height, LAI, number of leaf, yield, 1000-kernel weight, test weight) of 12 hybrids in randomized block design during two subsequent years on two locations. Our aim was to find correlation between traits. Tassel weight was positively correlated with total number of branches (0.59**), number of primary branches (0.53**) and tassel area index (0.63**), and negatively correlated with plant height (0.45**) and yield (0.39**). Tassel area index was negatively correlated with plant height (0.63**) and yield (0.55**), as were number of branches and Leaf Area Index (0.39**). Number of primary branches showed medium correlation with plant height (0.43**). Test weight correlated negatively with plant height, ear height, yield, leaf area index (LAI) and 1000-kernel weight. Because a number of these traits are highly heritable, these correlations could be used as a basis for indirect selection of special features in maize breeding programs.
23783880|The behavior of immature embryos of a T. aestivum L. cv. Chinese Spring line with a disomic addition of the 2H chromosome from H. vulgare cv. Betzes and of tetrasomic Chinese Spring lines placed on callus initiation culture medium was studied with respect to the following factors: chromosome composition, concentration of 2, 4-D in the culture medium. Inhibition of the zygotic embryo germination depended mainly on the chromosome composition and 2, 4-D content in the medium. The effect of these factors was slightly affected by the growing conditions of the donor plants. The frequency of callus formation and somatic embryogenesis was more dependent on the environment. Effects of the alien generic chromosome and of the chromosome dose of wheat second group on in vitro response with respect to 2,4D level were established. The increased dose of homoeologous group two wheat chromosomes and disomic addition of 2H chromosome to its genome changed the embryo reaction to exogenous auxins in vitro. By their degree of similarity the chromosomes could be divided in two groups: 2A and 2D; 2H and 2B. Four doses of 2A or of 2D chromosomes increased the number of the total and the embryogenic calli produced by the respective tetrasomes at lower 2,4-D concentrations. Endogenous auxin content in the coleoptiles of barley cv. Betzes was two times higher than that of wheat. Chromosomes 2H, 2A, 2B and 2D took part in the regulation of endogenous auxin level in vivo. The long arm of chromosome 2D showed the highest effect in this regulation.
90002868|Sustainable crop production can be accomplished in a good structured and nutrient enriched soil. Regarding environmental and economical aspects, soil condition improvement and soil protection are needed. For the improvement of the soils physical and biological condition in addition to favourable tillage methods catch crop can be inserted in the crop rotation. These catch crops, which are less known in Hungary, are supposed to increase the effectiveness of crop rotation and facilitate the workability of the soil and in some cases loosen the soil. In this research work, different production purposes of catch crops are evaluated considering their implementation possibilities.
90002628|The organic farming means returning to that traditional production methods, in which the producer intervenes into the plant-soil connection the least. The share of organic farming has increased dynamically during the last two decades, as a result of the growing demand of the conscious consumer attitude. A few years ago the rate of growth has stopped, beside decreasing organic price premium, which sign that the market has been overstocked. The article analyses the change of market positions of organic products in relation to the rate of growth and share of market. It has been found that cereals and oil seeds have significant market share, but the rate of growth slows down. Because of the increasing demand for organic animal products the demand for organic forages has grown dinamically.
23789849|The deoxynivalenol content, presence of kernels infected by Fusarium spp. pathogens and the frequency of visually scabby kernels in wheat intended for human consumption were monitored in 2003-2005. About 1000 samples provided by growers from various regions of the Czech Republic were analysed each year. Immunochemical assay ELISA-based kits for the analysis of deoxynivalenol content were employed. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, deoxynivalenol was detected at the maximum levels of 5090 g.kg1, 18300 g.kg1 and 4437 g.kg1, respectively. Significant correlations were found between the deoxynivalenol content and percentage of kernels infected by Fusarium spp. pathogens, and percentage of visually scabby kernels. In all years under study, the relationship between the deoxynivalenol content and percentage of visually scabby kernels was closer than that between the deoxynivalenol content and percentage of kernels infected by Fusarium spp.
23785399|Authors observed increasing number of early telarche/mastopathy patients in the South-East Region of Hungary since 1989. Parents reported unusually frequently high amount of "healthy" foods in the diet of the patients. The disease is mentioned as harmless in the literature, but differential diagnostic measures are necessary to exclude premature puberty or malignancies. A few epidemics were reported in the last decades, but etiology of the disease remain unknown. Authors supposed possibility of Fusarium toxin contamination of foods in etiology of this epidemic. Extremly high concentration of estrogenic Fusarium toxins was found at the analysis in this cereal products. In competitive receptor-assay system on human myometrial tissue high affinity of Zearalenon and Zearalenol was experienced to estrogen receptors. Serum samples of patient were investigated in HPLC-system. 5 of 36 examined serum samples contained 18.9-103.5 mcg/l Zearalenon. According to our knowledge this is the first time to demonstrate estrogenic Fusarium toxins not only in foodstuffs, but on human estrogen receptors and in the sera of premature telarche patients.
23783889|Stable shoots regeneration systems from somatic cells are crucial for genetic manipulation for cereal crops. The objective of this study is to establish a regeneration system by isolating the shoot competent cells from sorghum calluses [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench], and to evaluate the fertility and chromosomal variation of those regenerants. Callus derived from the immature embryos of sorghum containing heterogeneous cell types. Different cell types responded differently to the regeneration media by producing black pigments, regeneration of roots or shoots, or proliferation into embryogenic calluses. These differential responses were evaluated for their effectiveness in selecting the shoot regeneration competent cells. RSC 599 shoot competent cell clumps were easily identified and isolated from 2 mm2 calluses placed onto the regeneration medium (SR). Calluses that had not differentiated with the milky white color were transferred to SC medium for proliferation and to SR2 medium for further regeneration. The calluses on SR2 medium produced somatic embryos on the surface and only multiple shoots have been regenerated from them. Ninety-eight percent regenerated plants were fertile, 90% with normal chromosome number and 10% of the plants were mixoploid with both 40 and 20 root-tip chromosome counts. From two 5 mm2 selected cell clumps, hundred of shoots were regenerated. The strategy of isolating shoot competent cells through regeneration selection may provide a stable system for genetic manipulation in sorghum.
23786191|In Hungary in the last few years there has been a renewed interest in improving oil and/or protein content of the soybean crop, because these components have positive economic values both for the purchasers and the sellers. For this purpose mutant soybean germplasm was developed by pedigree method from a Krptalja local variety by 100-300 Gy chronical gamma irradiation to produce mutant soybean lines with an increased oil and/or protein content and acceptable agronomic performance. Chronical gamma irradiation increased the genetic variability of the oil content. In the M4 generation, function index predicted up to 28% oil content in the irradiated Krptalja germplasm. Plants with 24.1 and 23.6% oil content were selected from the 150 Gy and the 100 Gy populations. Due to the limited genetic variation for protein content, no mutant genotypes with higher protein content were identified. In the M5 generation, progenies of a superior plant with 23.6% oil content were homozygous for this characteristics, while progenies of a superior plant with 24.1% oil content were segregating. Their oil content ranged from 20.3 to 22.1%. Oil content had a moderate negative correlation with 1000-seed weight in both of the studied generations (r = 0.40*** and  0.39***). The 200 Gy dose significantly increased the number of pods, the number of seeds and the yield per plant. The applied doses, except the 150 and the 200 Gy ones, significantly decreased the 1000-seed weight as compared to the control. A function index was introduced to evaluate the genetic variability. The seed yield performance at two locations showed significant differences.
90002717|Though the wheather conditions of Hungary are ideal for winter wheat growing, our arrears concerning average crop and homogeneous crop quality are significant. Consequently, the export chances are in many cases endangered. The heterogeneity of crop quality and quantity is first of all due to the diverse features and nutritive contents of our soils even within one plot. The farmers have to find the appropriate technology and means by which the problem can be solved. The application of precision crop growing can be reasonable on heterogeneous soils. The aim of the present large-scale experiment is to examine the impact of precision nutritive deliveries on crop quality and quantity and to determine up to what extent the opportunities offered by precision method crop farming testify our hopes in practice.
23783876|The requirements of some experiments in wheat cytogenetics dictate screening of large populations of hybrids. Because cytogenetics is perceived as tedious, such experiments may not be undertaken, or be limited in scale. This note describes a simplified C-banding procedure and the organization of work in a cytogenetic laboratory which permit screening of 240-960 wheat plants per day. Depending on the level of motivation and experience in cytology, this pace can be sustained over a period of several days to several weeks. However, at this pace of cytology, the development of populations for screening quickly becomes a new bottleneck.
23783860|Hordeum chilense is highly resistant to mildew and brown rust fungi. The H. Chilense resistance to powdery mildew conferred a substantial reduction of the infection frequency of Erysiphe graminis f.sp. tritici in wheat  H. chilense amphiploids (tritordeum) and of E. graminis f.sp secalis in rye  H. chilense genome combinations. The reaction of H. chilense to rusts was overruled by the wheat reaction in tritordeum. Resistance of H. chilense to rye brown rust was expressed in rye  H. chilense combinations. In tetraploid triticale (DDRR) wheat contributed to E. graminis f.sp. secalis and to P. recondita f.sp. recondita resistance, and rye contributed to E. graminis f.sp. tritici, P. recondita f.sp tritici and P. striiformis f.sp. tritici resistance.
23780393|The impact of pre-harvest germination on primary and secondary industries is outlined. The papers of the First International Symposium on Pre-harvest Sprouting Damage in Cereals are reviewed. In addition, the outstanding features of a book and a review published since the past symposium are discussed. In conclusion, the importance of mission oriented comprehensive research is emphasised.
23787273|The LMW glutenin composition of nine old Hungarian wheats (several lines per variety), and one Canadian wheat was studied using one-step, one-dimensional SDS-PAGE (Gupta and MacRitchie, 1991), after which a method was developed for the determination of wheat LMW glutenin patterns using SDS capillary electrophoresis (CE). In both cases the samples were prepared as described by Gupta and MacRitchie (1991), with some modifications in the case of CE. Both methods were used to analyse the homogeneity of the varieties, and the electropherograms obtained with the two methods were compared. It was found that the new method based on CE was suitable for the demonstration of differences and similarities between the wheat LMW glutenins. The method can be used to reveal differences not only between varieties (e.g. between the Hungarian variety Bnkti 1205 and the Canadian variety Marquis), but also between the genotypes making up a variety population (e.g. the sublines of Bnkti 1205). The results indicate that CE is a satisfactory alternative to the traditional PAGE method for the determination of the LMW glutenin subunits of wheat varieties.
23786146|Grain weight in wheat is the product of rate and duration of grain filling (GF). GF rate represents the rate of dry matter accumulation per grain during grain fill. The lack information regarding the genetic base of GF rate prompted this study to determine kind of inheritance, genetic components and heritability for the GF rate. Nine spring wheat cultivars (Dugoklasa, Lelija, Radua, Vesna, Bobwhite, Buckbuck, Glennson 81, Mitacore) and their F1, F2, BC1, and BC2 generations were used for investigation. In order to determine the genetic base of GF rate the additive-dominance, and six-parameter models have been used. The mean values of the F1 and F2 generations depended on the cross and were either closer to the mean of the parent with the low or higher GF rate. The additive-dominance model explained the variation of GF rate in two and six-parameter model in four crosses. Additive and dominance effects were the most responsible for GF rate in spring wheat. The most significant interaction were additive x dominance and dominance x dominance epistasis. A primary part of genetic variability for GF rate was associated with additive gene action, although dominance effects also were involved in the inheritance. Narrow-sense heritability estimates ranged from 0,35 to 0,73. Results suggested that early-generation selection for GF rate would be less effective and selection for this trait should be done in later generations.
23789805|The effects of sowing date, nitrogen application level and timing on barley protein components and malt quality were investigated. There was a significant difference in total protein and its protein fractions among the four barley genotypes. The protein component was changeable over the different growing conditions, and the extent of change varied with protein fraction and genotype. Marked variation in malt quality over the different environments (sowing date, N fertilizer rate and applying time) was also observed. Increased N fertilizer application increased diastatic power (DP) value, but reduced malt extract. Grain protein content was significantly and positively correlated with albumin, globulin and hordein, but was not correlated with glutelin. However, glutelin was significantly related to other malt quality parameters.
90002734|Three-year field fertilization trial with red beet (
23787300|Twenty corn (Zea mays L.) hybrids were grown under the field conditions during the 2000 and 2001 growing seasons. The ear-leaf at the beginning of the skilling stage was taken for chemical analysis. The experimental field was acid hydromorphic soil with moderate levels of mobile fractions of megnesium (Mg), calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P). In our testing considerable influences of growing season (mean 0.273 and 0.177 mg Mg/kg, for 2000 and 2001, respectively) and heredity (range of 2-year means among the 20 hybrids: from 0.120 to 0.291 mg Mg/kg) were found. Three corn hybrids (OsSK395, RK1456 and OsSK332) had low Mg (<0.2000 % Mg) concentrations in both growing seasons (means 0.177 and 0.138 % Mg, for 2000 and 2001, respectively). Four other hybrids (OsSK277, OsSK2-91, OsSK247 and OsSK234) had adequate Mg status (means 0.297 and 0.228 %, for 2000 and 2001, respectively). Grain yields of the hybrids ranged from 4.06 to 11.69 t ha1. Six hybrids yielded less than 7 t ha1 (Alpos, OsSK2-191, OsSK247, Bc278 and Clarica: mean 5.49 t ha 1). Yields of other three hybrids were above 10 t ha1 (OsSK378, OsSK298 and OsSK277: mean 10.91 t ha1). Mean yields of two hybrid groups differing in Mg status totaled 8.60 and 7.52 t ha1, for the low Mg-group and high Mg-group, respectively. Although Mg status in soil and plant was mostly either moderate or low, correlation coefficients between the yield and Mg status were low under these conditions.
23780428|Starch paste viscosity is shown to be an important factor governing the quality of noodles made from wheat flour. Falling Number and Viscograph tests on the flour do not always indicate noodle making quality, as they are affected by components other than the starch. Variation in the apparent amylose content of the starch accounted for approximately half the variation in paste viscosity. This variation was governed both by environmental and genetic influences.
23789902|Aegilops tauschii is the generally accepted D genome diploid donor of hexaploid wheat. The significance of Ae. tauschii HMW-GS genes on bread-making properties of bread wheat has been well documented. Among them, Ae. tauschii HMW-GS Dx5t+Dy12t was thought as the pair with potentially value in endowing synthetic hexaploid wheat with good end-use qualities. In this paper, we isolated and sequenced genes Dx5t and Dy12t from Ae. tauschii accession As63. Amino acid sequence comparison indicated that Dy 12t from Ae. tauschii is more similar to Dy rather than Dy 12 of bread wheat. The sequence of Dx5t in Ae. tauschii accession As63 showed higher similarity to that of Dx5 in bread wheat than others. However, it is notable that Dx5t lacked the additional cysteine residue in Dx5, which is responsible for good bread-making quality in common wheat. Moreover, compared to Dx5, Dx5t has an extra hexpeptide repetitive motif unit (SGQGQQ) as well as five amino acid substitutions.
23789824|Canary seed (Phalaris canariensis L.) is a cereal crop belonging to the tribe Phalarideae of the Poaceae family. A prevailing virus infection, which causes dwarfing of plants and yellowing of leaves, was observed in canary seed fields in the Tekirdag province of Turkey. The aim of this study was to identify, clone and sequence the cereal viruses naturally occurring on P. canariensis by employing serological tests as DAS-ELISA and TAS-ELISA tests combined with transmission electron microcopy (TEM) and molecular analysis. One hundred and one plant samples showing symptoms were collected and tested serologically using polyclonal antisera against Barley yellow dwarf virus-PAV (BYDV-PAV) and Cereal yellow dwarf virus-RPV (CYDV-RPV). The results of both immunoassays showed that 48% of the samples were infected with BYDV-PAV, 2% with CYDV-RPV and 14% were mixed infection. 36% of the samples were uninfected or infected at level below detection. Aphid transmission experiments revealed that barley (cv. Rubina) exhibited characteristic of CYDV-RPV. Investigations of infected canary grass seedlings using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) supported the findings of serological tests and revealed the presence of isometric particles of approximately 25 nm in diameter. These results were also confirmed by using BYDV-PAV and CYDV-RPV specific primers. Sequence analysis of cDNA and probable translation products revealed a high level of homology to BYDV-PAV and CYDV-RPV isolates found in other plant species. The sequence data obtained from this research were deposited in the EMBL/GenBank Data Libraries under the accession nos. EGO19056 and EF372272.
90003155|Soft winter wheat (
23783865|The speed of growth and development of the varieties of triticale used ranged between a very fast growing winter rye and a slower developing winter wheat. There were no major differences between varieties, but it should be mentioned that of the varieties investigated LASKO variety developed the fastest. With normal weather conditions in autumn before the beginning of winter the plants develop to contain 0.07 - 0.1 g dry matter and with a leaf surface of about 40 cm2 by which they achieve the 20th to 25th phase of DC scale and do not exceed stage III of the apical growth organogenesis. This can be considered the optimal state of development before the winter conditions prevail and for good hibernation. With its dry-matter formation dynamics triticale mostly ranged between the values of rye and wheat. Only in the second half of the vegetation, especially after earing, triticale formed more dry matter. Rye and triticale showed less contents of dry matter in the main stem than wheat. The optimum leaf-area index - /LAI/ for grain yields from 3.5 to 5.7 tonnes per hectare ranged from to 8m2 per 1m2 of land /from 7 to 9 m2.m2/. Maximum LAI values were reached in the second half of May to early June. Small varietal differences were observed. Leaf area duration /LAD/ in our experiments was higher in triticale than in wheat or rye. Its value was favourably affected by later application of nitrogen and the application of cytokinins in the post-floral period. Triticale also had a higher proportion of the assimilation area of the blades of flag leaves than rye of triticale.
23789913|Set of 10 winter wheat cultivars was evaluated in pot experiment at 4 levels of N-fertilization (0, 30, 60, 90 kg ha1) with the aim to find out contribution of above ground and root translocated biomass on increasing of grain yield of modern cultivars. Modern semi-dwarf cultivars headed earlier, accumulated less above ground biomass till heading, but more root biomass and their intensity of root biomass accumulation was higher than at old cultivars. The highest root biomass produced cultivar Astella, carrying Rht 1. On the doubled grain yield of modern cultivars grain number per ear (r=0.907++) contributed more than grain weight (r=0.889++) and ear number per plant (r=0.512) lowered moderately with the year of cultivar release. Grain yield increased as a result of higher harvest index, without increasing biomass production. Translocation of above ground biomass increased with the year of cultivar release, except of the semi-dwarf, earliest cultivar Kosutka. In all cultivars, root biomass was decreasing from the heading to the maturity and their contribution on translocated dry matter in grain was three times higher than from above ground biomass. Portion of total biomass translocated in grain varied among cultivars from 2.34% (Kosutka) to 41.51% (Astella).
23785313|In the present study the frost resistant capacity of 10 modern secondary triticale cultivars has been evaluated by using field and laboratory tests. The cold-acclimation kinetics of the most frost resistant triticale (cv. Aubrac) has been then compared with a winter wheat and a winter rye cultivars during hardening and dehardening experiments in controlled conditions. The results show that the most frost resistant triticale genotype can perform much better than a winter wheat and, under specific test conditions, even as good as a typical frost resistant rye. The analysis of the cold acclimation kinetics suggest also that frost tolerant plants have usually a faster hardening and a slower de-hardening process than susceptible types.
23783961|The individual amino acid content of wheat seeds from long-term NPK fertilizer trials grown on heavy-calcareous and humus-rich meadow soil in 1991 has been examined by a RP HPLC method, in order to determine the effect of increasing NPK supply. Higher N doses increased the amount of ASP, GLU, SER, HIS, GLY, THR, ARG, ALA, TYR, VAL, PHE, ILE, LEU and LYS by 6-24%. The highest values were obtained at 180 kg N/ha fertilizer level, except for ARG and HIS. Increased PK doses significantly decreased the quantity of ASP, GLU, SER, HIS, GLY, THR, ARG, ALA, TYR, CYS, VAL, PHE, ILE and LEU. When N and PK were applied together, the amount of amino acids did not change to such an extent as in the case of separate N or PK doses. The two wheat varieties studied showed significant differences only in the amount of SER, CYS and PHE.
23785309|Light quantity and quality within canopy of a narrow-leaf mutant and wide-leaf plants of spring barley (cv. Damazy) were compared. The mutant induced in the result of Co-60 gamma irradiation displayed horizontally oriented leaves of reduced blade width by about 50 per cent and the blade length decreased by about 30 per cent, in comparison to the original form. The narrow-leaf trait was found to be controlled by a single recessive gene. Photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) was enhanced by about 50 per cent at the level of the third upper leaf and by about 150 per cent at the stem base in the canopy of the mutant, in comparison to the wild-type plants. Spectroradiometric measurements showed also the effect of the leaf size on the light quality. The red (600-700 nm) far-red (700-800 nm) ratio was higher in the mutant canopy in comparison to the wild-type plants, mostly due to increased contribution of the red wavelengths. Possible benefit effect of reduced leaf size on plant morphogenesis is discussed.
23783649|In grain sorghum, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, embryogenic callus obtained from three types of explants : scutella from mature seeds; shoot portions of young seedlings and immature inflorescences was studied for plant regeneration. The regeneration media tried were BGS, UM, N6, MS with 20 mgl1 IAA and MS with 20 mgl1 IAA + 0.1 mgl1 kinetin. Maximum frequency of regeneration was obtained on N6 medium from callus induced from immature inflorescences followed by shoot portions. It was concluded that in sorghum, for long term biotechnological studies, suitable material can be obtained from immature inflorescences.
90003409|The primary aim of cultivation is to provide permanent quality for food industry because new processing technologies need constant features of raw materials. In real conditions, biosystems are widely influenced by different factors that are hard or unpossible to manipulate. For example the cropyear effects are such factors that consist of two important parts: the temperature and precipitation. The author has investigated the geometric and agro-physical parameters of wheat kernel sampled from four different years. The width of kernel varied year by year but there was no significant difference between dry and moist years. The effect of a dry year caused notable difference for the length and thickness. The kernel length was significantly smaller in the year of drought and at the same time the thickness increased.
90003187|The Green Revolution genes considerably increased the yield potential of modern wheat varieties, but also rendered them more susceptible to Fusarium head blight (FHB) causing problems with mycotoxin contamination. In order to study the association of reduced height (Rht) genes and FHB resistance,
23787679|The year effect greatly determines also the efficacy of the NPK fertilizers besides yields. Depending on the hybrid and the year, an economical and reliable yield increment was achieved by applying lower fertilizer doses. The higher fertilizer doses did not result in a reliable yield increment compared to lower doses. The most advantageous and most effective NPK treatment was when N 40-120, P2O5 25-75, K2O 30-90 kg ha1 active ingredient dosages were applied. The hybrid and the fertilizer had a significant individual and combined effect on the photosynthetic activity and consequently on the yield of maize hybrids The LAI values have varied greatly depending on the hybrid and the year. The LAI value of early hybrids ranged between 2-4 m2 m2, while that of the medium and medium-late maturing hybrids almost reached 5 m2 m2. LAI values of the hybrids varied in the different fertilizer treatments and during the vegetation period. There was a tight correlation between LAI and yield. The different hybrids had a different photosynthetic activity, which was influenced by the fertilizer treatments. For most hybrids, the highest activity was measured in the treatment with the highest (N 200+PK) dosage. Photosynthetic activity also correlated with yield to a varying extent up to the treatment with N 120, P2O5 75, K2O 90 kg ha1. The maximum yield of hybrids in the experimental year was 8.44 t ha1, 9.97 t ha1, 10.86 t ha1 and 11.24 t ha1 for Monessa (FAO 200), Norma (FAO 380), DK 527 (FAO 490), and Florencia (FAO 530), respectively.
23781497|The experiments on the effect of herbicidal treated water to certain cereal crops conducted at Haryana Agricultural University, Hissar, India showed that Paraquat, Nitrofen and 2,4-D were the safest herbicide if the herbicide treated water is to be applied in cereal crops. Diuron was found to be very toxic in Corn, Wheat and Oats but it was moderately toxic to pearlmillet. Atrazine and Dalapon were moderately toxic to wheat and oats and both showed no phytotoxicity to corn under the doses employed in the study.
23781552|Winter and spring types wheats, originating from winter x x spring crosses of CIMMYT were investigated regarding the ecological stability of their characteristics at normal and low plant densities, at spring and autumn sowing. As a result of these investigations significant differences were found between the winter and spring wheats. These differences cannot be explained by the genetically different growing habits of the two wheats. Comparing the winter and spring wheats sown normally with the spring wheats sown in autumn we have found that a difference in the character of "spring habit" and "winter habit" is manifest only in relation to the environment. The degree of the genotype-environment interaction depends on the genotype, on the investigated character and on the environmental effect. The stability of the studied characteristics of the wheat was lower at low density, than at regular /500 plants/m2 / plant density. In this last fall the 1000 grain mass and the flag leaf length was determined fifty percent by the genotype. In all other characteristics the environmental effects influenced the manifestation to a higher degree than the genotype both in the single cases and in the population. Only a quarter of all changes are of genotypical origin and three-quarters result from environmental conditions. The genetical analysis of the winter and the spring habit as a characteristic - apart from the vernalization requirement is problematical.
90003407|The aim of our research has been to survey the impact of precision plant growing on the quality and quantity of autumn wheat on compound soil in Hungary. Our goal is to size up the possibility of the homogenization of the quality of wheat on compound soil. The results of the first year have shown a significant correlation between the quality of wheat and the phosphorus contents of the soil of the plot. For the sake of the yield of the second year potash and phosphorus fertilizer was distributed by precision technology in the course of autumn nutrient supply. The extraordinary vintage had a strong effect on crop quality this year as well as in the first. The quantitative data were acceptable but certain quality parameters were reduced to the level of forage wheat due to the heavy rainfall right before harvest time which also delayed harvesting.
23786092|For the identification of the vernalisation response gene determining spring growth habit of the Siberian variety 'Onokhoyskaya' crosses were initiated between 'Onokhoyskaya' and 'Petka', the latter is carrying Sp1 and between 'Onokhoyskaya' and the two winter ryes 'Moskovskij Karlik' and PC361'. Both by allelic test cross and RFLP mapping it is clearly demonstrated that the Siberian rye is carrying a vernalisation response gene allelic to Sp1, however, weaker in expression. The homoeologous relationships to vernalisation response genes (Vrn) of other Triticeae members are discussed. A new nomenclature for the Vrn genes in rye according to the recommended rules for gene symbolisation in homoeologous sets is proposed.
23779384|Light leaf colored barleys (Hordeum Vulgare L.) have potential for better adaptation to semi-arid agriculture due to their ability to reflect more radiation from the leaf surface. The effect of the lightening of the leaf color on the growth and development of the plant, however, needs to be well understood before this character may be incorporated in cultivars released for large scale barley production. This study was conducted to compare the growth of two light green spring barleys, Pale Green Liberty and Golden Liberty with their isogenic normal green cultivar, 'Liberty'. The light green lines had great er leaf area and leaf dry weight than Liberty. Liberty, however, had greater specific leaf weight and leaf weight ratio than both Pale Green Liberty and Golden Liberty. There was no significant difference in the plant and spike dry weights of the three color lines. The results indicated that the low efficiency in dry matter production of the light green lines was compensated by the increased leaf surface for dry matter synthesis.
23785223|Callus cultures were initiated from mature excised embryos received from seeds of the Triticum aestivum L. cvs. 'Aeges' and 'Generoso' and the Triticum durum L. cvs. 'Mexicali' and 'Capeiti'. The embryos were cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with various combinations of growth regulators. The four cultivars differed remarkably in their response to embryo culture with various growth regulators, with the T. durum cultivar 'Capeiti' being the least responsive. No callus growth was observed when no growth regulator was applied and maximum callus growth was obtained on a medium supplemented with 2,4-D and kinetin. For both T. aestivum and T. durum cultivars, better plant regeneration rates were obtained by inducing callus formation, shoot induction and root induction on a single medium, rather than submitting explants to four separate culture phases. Addition of 1 mg I1 NAA to the medium was beneficial to root and shoot induction in all cases. T. aestivum callus rooted better when NAA was used alone or in combination with 2iP, while application of NAA and BA proved to be the best PGR combination for the T. durum cultivars. The combination of 2,4-D with kinetin, which improved callusing, had a rather adverse effect on root and shoot induction.
90002697|The medicinal plant
23786167|In our two earlier studies on bread wheat, we identified three molecular marker loci - one (Xwmc41) associated with grain protein content (GPC) was located on 2DL and the other two (Xwmc104 and Xmst101) associated with pre-harvest sprouting tolerance (PHST) were located one each on 6BS and 7DL. These studies were extended using additional marker loci already known to be located on these arms. Seven STMS marker loci, that were already mapped on 2DL (Rder et al., 1998a), and 13 STMS marker loci that were already mapped on 6BS and 7DL were tested for possible genetic association with GPC/PHST. Although, some of these markers did show polymorphism between the contrasting parents, none of them showed linkage with GPS/ PHST or with the markers associated with them. This encouraged us to undertake physical mapping of all the loci known to be located on 2DL, 6BS and 7DL. The marker loci and the regions to which they were mapped included the following: (i) Xwmc41 (an STMS locus), that was associated with a QTL for GPC, was assigned to the terminal 0.24 fraction of 2DL; (ii) from among two molecular marker loci associated with PHST, Xwmc104 (an STMS locus) was assigned to terminal 0.76 fraction of the 6BS satellite and Xmst101 (an STS locus) was assigned to proximal centromeric 0.10 fraction of 7DL; (iii) 13 STMS marker loci, earlier genetically mapped on 6BS and 7DL, were also assigned to specific physical regions of these two arms. The marker loci that were physically mapped during the present study were integrated with those earlier mapped in a similar way, and integrated physical maps with 27 marker loci on 2DL, 42 marker loci on 6BS and 54 marker loci on 7DL were prepared. We believe that these integrated physical maps should prove useful for a variety of studies in future.
90003084|When we process the bread-stuffs, we select, cleaning and comminuting the kernel. The comminuting has a lot of form, from the grind by hand to modern roll milling. My first aim was to determine the milling of hard and soft wheat varieties, and measure the particle repartition. The samples were two different kernel hardness of wheat from two different year. The GK Mr has a soft; the Gk thalom and Jubilejnaja 50 have hard kernel hardness. I got two good define results, which can use in practice.
23781404|Genotypes of the F8 population from two spring wheat crosses were screened for excised-leaf water retention and stomatal and cuticular vapor transport resistance (rvs). Flag leaves, obtained from four locations differing in available soil moisture, were air dried for 8 hours.The highest water loss was from leaves sampled from the well watered environment and the lowest loss was from the driest environment. Grain yield averaged over four environments was significantly correlated with excised-leaf water retention and rvs. High excised-leaf water retention capability appeared to be a characteristic of some drought tolerant wheat genotypes.
23782933|Interspecific hybrids of T. turgidum  Ae. caudata and Ae. caudata  T. turgidum ph1 mutant were produced at a frequency of about 2.8% of pollinated florets. The hybrid involving the ph1 mutant showed a chromosome pairing of 9.69 univalents, 5.40 bivalents and 0.20 trivalents per cell, which is higher than that of the normal hybrid.
23781474|Two BYDV-tolerant oat cultivars, Ogle and Porter, were crossed with the susceptible cultivar Orbit. The F2 populations were inoculated with the PAV isolate of BYDV and grown in the greenhouse, and selections were made for high harvest index and against low biological yield. F3 progenies of random and selected F2's were grown under infection in the field to evaluate the response to selection. In both populations, F2 selection resulted in reduced visual symptom expression, increased harvest index, increased biological yield, and increased grain yield in the F3. F2 selection for HI and against low biological yield under infection was effective in increasing BYDV tolerance in the F3.
23786281|Leaves, formed at later developmental stage, in barley genotypes native to Syria are lighter green than those adapted to wetter areas. In the present study, six barley genotypes were objectively assessed for leaf colour throughout a cropping season. Leaf colour was measured by using a chroma meter. The L*, a* and b* axes provide a three-dimentional coordinate space of colour that relates to human perception. L* measures psychrometric lightness. The a* axis transects the red and green hues, while the b* axis transects the blue and yellow hues. Syrian landraces showed considerably higher L* indicating that they have a lighter leaf colour. They had higher a* and lower b* values than those of dark-green group until February, and then turned to lower a* and higher b* values thereafter. This indicated the leaves of Syrian landraces had lesser green and yellow hue in winter than in spring. The relationship between leaf-colour variables and the photosynthetic electron transport rates were also explored both in winter and in spring. It is considered that low chlorophyll content and/or higher chlorophyll a/b reduces the risk of damage from photoinhibition.
23789671|The field experiment with four rates of phosphorus (P) fertilization was conducted in spring of 2004 with treatments as follows: a) ordinary fertilization (kg/ha: 200 N + 80 P2O5 + 120 K2O); b) a + 500 kg P2O5; c) a + 1000 kg P2O5; and d) a + 1500 kg P2O5. The triplephoshate enriched with sulphur and zinc (45% P2O5 + 1,2% S + 0,06% Zn) was used as a source of P. Maize (Bc5984 and OsSK494 hybrids, for the growing season 2004 and 2005, respectively) was grown on the experimental plot. P fertilization significantly influenced on decreases of the leaf Mg by 38%, Mn by 30%, Zn by 48% and Mo by 53% compared to the control (mg kg1 on the control: 1526 Mg, 44.3 Mn, 45.2 Zn, 2.62 Mo) and increases of the leaf Sr by 31% and Cd by 84% (mg kg1 on the control: 62.3 Sr and 0.25 Cd), while differences of the remaining measurable elements (P, K, S, Fe, Cu, Ni, Cr, B, Ba, Na, and Al) were non-significant. Also, the leaf As, Hg and Se concentrations were under detectable levels of the method. In general, grain composition was less dependent on the fertilization in comparison with the leaf composition. For the 2005 growing season, only ordinary fertilization was applied. As affected by applied fertilization maize grain yields increased up to 32% and 17% compared to the control, for 2004 and 2005, respectively.
90003111|Application of physiological methods in selection process may help considerably to improve wheat breeding efficiency. In vegetation pot experiments with a collection of winter bread wheat genotypes of different provenance the drought tolerance screening methods were applied. Evaluation of drought effect in selected genotypes by chlorophyll fluorescence was based on the performance index (PI), the most sensitive fluorescence parameter characterizing better the drought susceptibility of plants. The genotypes differed in sensitivity of stomatal closure, and hence in the CO
90003227|In 130 pre-harvest maize samples from Southern Ethiopia, Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), Fumonisin B1 (FUMB1) and Ochractoxin A (OTA) were detected with mean concentration of 22.72, 1679.3 and 147.32g/kg respectively. FUM B1, OTA and AFB1 were also detected with mean concentrations of 984.97, 694.54 and 32.56 g/kg respectively in storage samples. FUMB1 was predominant both in pre-harvest and stored maize samples. The high incidence of kernel infection with the
90002953|Designation of the Special Areas of Conservation (SAC) is ordered by the Habitat Directive for the protection of plants and animals (except birds) and their habitats. The Navad-patak mire which was previously known for its
23781389|The occurrence of disturbances to normal embryo differentiation following tridemorph ('Calixin') application to barley spikes is reported. The highest proportions of embryo abnormalities were obtained when florets were treated with 1 mg 11 'Calixin' at times ranging from 96 h before pollination to 48 (72) h after pollination. Translocation of the active ingredient from treated florets affected the development of embryos derived from florets not directly receiving the chemical, but which were located on the same spike.
90002899|There can no longer be any doubt that the quantity of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is increasing. The most important of these is CO
23786238|Three alloplasmic wheat lines and the donor of nuclear genome have been tested for their ability for inducing pollen embryogenesis in microspore culture. Cultivation with an initial density of 2 x 105 microspores per ml in C17 medium conditioned by young anther-derived embryoids was used to induce microspore cell division and the subsequent plant regeneration. Microspore viability after pre-treatment and during cultivation, cytoplasm reorganisation, frequency of microcalli and embryoids, the number of regenerants have been studied. Cytoplasmic effects during the first stages of pollen embryogenesis in isolated microspore culture were detected. Alloplasmic line (turgidum) x M808 was the best genotype for all parameters studied. One way analysis of variance and determination of the genetic distance also exhibited cytoplasmic influence. It can be concluded that the cytoplasmic effects exist at early stages of pollen embryogenesis induction in wheat microspore culture and they should be taken into account in investigations involving pollen embryogenesis induction.
90002785|In this paper the authors describes the new methodology of the economic land valuation, witch has been developed in the framework of National Research and Development program No. 4/015/2004 Land quality, land value and sustainable land use in conditions of European Union research work.
23789792|A new enzyme-encoding gene set, Acph-2, is reported for common wheat. These genes, orthologous to Acph1 of Aegilops tauschii, encode electrophoretically fast acid phosphatases. The electrophoretic phenotype of Acph-2 is presented.
90003094|In 2006 we sampled 900 ha of sowing seed production area in the Hajdsg and Bks production zones. During our examinations we justified that there are significant differences between the degree of nutritive supply of the examined production zones. The humus and nitrogen content of the soils is more favourable in the Hajdsg region, whereas their potassium content is more favourable in the Bks region. The proportion of soils not sufficiently provided with humus, nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium is high in both production zones. A more intensive organic fertilizer treatment and a locally adjusted fertilization is needed with higher doses in order to maintain the fertility of soil.
90002975|The authors developed the virtual hydrologic  hydraulic model of the River Beretty and its environment, based on its conceptual model. They analyzed the relationship between the significant hydroecological and water-quality factors, and investigated the hydrological and morphological characters and conditions of the flow in the examined cross-sections, according to the recommendations of the Water Framework Directive of the EU.
23789881|In a long-term experiment set up in Martonvsr (N 4721, E 1849), Hungary in 1960 on a humous loam soil of the chernozem type, the effect of five crop production factors in increasing maize yields was studied in seven treatments. The factors studied were soil cultivation, fertilisation, plant density, variety and weed control. All the factors had a favourable and an unfavourable level. Yield data recorded over 42 years were evaluated using analysis of variance and stability analysis. The highest yield (8.59 t ha1) was obtained when all the production factors were favourable and lowest (2.09 t ha1) when these factors were unfavourable. When only one factor was unfavourable and all the other factors were favourable the following yields were obtained (t ha1): soil tillage: 8.32, fertilisation: 5.21, genotype: 4.98, plant density: 6.31 weed control: 7.01. The crop production factors contributed to the increase in maize yield in the following ratios (%): fertilisation 30.6, variety 32.6, plant density 20.2, weed control 14.2, soil cultivation 2.4. The highest value of the coefficient of variation (CV%) was obtained when all the production factors were at the unfavourable level (45.7%) and when weed control or fertilisation were unfavourable (36.6% and 34.8%, respectively), while the lowest value was recorded when all the factors were favourable (19.5%). The significant treatment x year interaction could be attributed principally to treatments in which weed control, fertilisation, genotype or all the factors were unfavourable. The regression coefficient of linear regression analysis provided a satisfactory characterisation of the stability of the treatments in different environments, while the distance between the straight lines expressed the yield differences between the treatment pairs. The AMMI (Additive Main Effect and Multiplicative Interaction) model proved to be a valuable approach for understanding agronomic treatment x environment interactions and assessing the mean performance and yield stability of treatments.
23782788|The cultivar 'Betzes' and two spontaneous erectoides mutants of Betzes were planted in 30 and 15 cm row spacings at Bozeman, Montana in2 1972 through 1976. Characteristics studied were: heading date, plant height, tillers per m2, kernels per spike, leaf length, width, and area, straw yield, grain yield, biological yield, test weight, kernel weight, percentage of plump or thin kernels, and percent protein. Significant differences were found between: years for all characteristics; spacings for heading date, tillers per m2, and leaf size (length, width, and area); isolines for all characteristics except yield, leaf width, and percent protein. Significant interactions were found for isolines x years for yield, percent plump, kernel weight, tillers/m2, and percent protein. In years with high yield (no stress) the Betzes Double Erectoides isoline yielded more in 15 than 30 cm spacings, while in low yield (stress) years, the isolines yielded about the same at both spacings. Erectoides isolines are equal in grain yield, stiffer strawed, shorter in height, but smaller seeded than the parent cultivar. One year's data indicate the erectoides isolines are higher than Betzes in biological yield, but not in straw yield.
23782831|Three trials were conducted at North Dakota State University in 1983. Two trials were to screen some Egyptian wheat varieties for resistance to greenbug [Schizaphis graminum (Rondani)] and oat bird sherry aphid (Rhopalosiphum padi (L.) ), and the third trial was to test cycocel for its antifeeding effect on the greenbug. The data revealed that "Largo" and "Amigo" were resistant to biotype C, of the greenbug. All Egyptian varieties were highly susceptible to greenbug but "Sakha 8" and "Daker 52" exhibited a modest level of resistance. The bread wheat varieties "Giza 157", "Giza 155" and "Sakha 8" were tolerant to R. padi. Also the durum varieties "EDM" and "Stork's" were moderately tolerant. The greenbug toxicity caused reduction in plant height, total leaves dry matter and growth rate during infestation, and increased dead tissue dry matter percent. Meanwhile, R. padi reduced the growth rate during infestation and increased dead tissue dry matter percent as demonstrated by correlation study. Cycocel treatments caused decrease in greenbug effect score and plant height, and increase in number of tillers per plant.
23782873|The number of cells per unit volume of cob pith parenchyma tissue obtained from the center of the cob decreased from 4.1  106 cells/cm3 on the mid-silking day to 1.0  106 cells/cm3 five days after silking. No further cell enlargement occurred in the sample region. A new method was devised to section the young, soft cob pith parenchyma tissue using a Hooker rotary microtome: embed frozen tissue in warm 20% agar; freeze agar block with dry ice; chill block holder; and section.
23787243|Pre-harvest sprouting (PHS) of wheat occurs when the mature seed germinates on the plant prior to harvest. Sprouted grain has lower test weight and poor baking quality. It was of interest to evaluate the levels of PHS resistance in soft red winter wheat because moist conditions during harvest are common in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States. Field studies to evaluate PHS resistance among eighty genotypes of soft red winter wheat were conducted over two years at two locations in Maryland (USA). PHS resistance was measured by conducting germination tests of seed harvested six weeks post-anthesis. Average sprouting was 15.8% in the first year and 69% in the second year. Genotypes that were highly resistant and highly susceptible to PHS were identified. This information will be useful for breeding of PHS resistance and for development of segregating populations for mapping of PHS resistance in soft red winter wheat.
23786261|Experiments were undertaken to study the use of anthocyanin biosynthesis stimulatory genes under the control of CaMV35S promoter and first intron of maize alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh1), as marker genes for genetic transformation of wheat haploid embryos and microspores by microprojectile bombardment. Transient expression was monitored for isolated microspore cultures of 1 and 8 days, after bombardment at 650 and 1100 psi. Anthocyanin expression in 1 day cultured microspores was only recovered at 650 psi, while a higher expression efficiency was obtained with 8 days old microspore culture at 1100 psi. Experiments conducted on embryos show that total regeneration as well as albino and green plant regeneration of embryos were not affected by bombardment. 64.5 % embryos presented spots and 6.2 % of the regenerated plants were chimeric, with sectorial expression of anthocyanin on leaves. The comparison of GUS and anthocyanin expression was realized and we have shown that anthocyanins are more reliable markers when compared with GUS. Besides being more practical, they give a better estimation of transformation procedure efficiency. Results show that anthocyanin biosynthesis stimulatory genes should be used as markers in haploid embryos and isolated microspores transformation in wheat.
23779382|More than 1400 common wheats and 52 interspecific Triticum-hybrids were screened both for grain protein and lysine content. In contrast with that of common wheats, protein-bound lysine content of interspecific hybrids is independent of the grain protein level. Since high-lysine crosses occur more frequently among the interspecific hybrids also, their utilization in breeding bread wheats for improved protein seems to be reasonable.
23792330|A wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum) mutant, designated k-plus, constitutively possesses high leaf potassium content and light-green leaves. To study the genetic basis of these traits and to find out their association, k-plus mutant was crossed to the wild type (WT) Trinakria, F1 and F2 populations were developed. The flag leaves of parental lines, F1 and F2 progeny were assayed for ion content, at the heading stage. Potassium content was greater in k-plus than in WT; the F1 hybrids behaved like to the WT, in both potassium and leaf colour. The number of genes conditioning leaf potassium content, was not more than one, as estimated by Castle-Wright method. A single recessive locus controls potassium content of k-plus mutant, with the wild type allele completely dominant over the new mutant. Broad sense heritability can be considered sufficient to obtain progress from selection, of k-plus phenotype. Light-green leaf colour was inherited as monogenic recessive allele, which co-segregate with the locus controlling potassium accumulation. Light-green F2 sub-population had, on the average, significantly more potassium content than green F2 sub-population. These preliminary results encourage further physiologic and genetic analysis of k-plus mutant.
23790383|Two new pathotypes of Puccinia triticina, 121R60-1 and 377R60-1 the latter virulent on Lr28, are described for the first time. Both the pathotypes are designated as MHTTS as per North American system of pathotype identification. Pathotype 377R60-1 appears to be the result of a single step mutation for virulence to Lr28 in pathotype 121R60-1. Both pathotypes appear closely related to the most prevalent virulent pathotype 121R63-1(THTTS). The avirulence/virulence profile, resistance sources and their possible relationship with other pathotypes are discussed. Lr28 is now included as one of the differentials for the identification of leaf rust pathotypes.
23783957|In tissue culture, use of various plant growth regulators has been shown to modify callus growth and plant regeneration rates. This study examined the effects of 0.5, 1.0, 1.5 and 2.0 M concentrations and two modes of application of abscisic acid (ABA), namely in the medium and topical application, on callus growth and plant regeneration of two wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genotypes, PI 137739 and 'Stephens'. Callus induction and proliferation were arrested by ABA treatments in the first month. Enhanced growth of up to 3-fold was observed in ABA treated calli compared to control when they were transferred to maintenance medium without ABA in the second month. In 'Stephens', increased plantlet production was observed when ABA was incorporated in the medium. Thus, wheat genotypes responded differently to ABA treatments with regards to calli growth and plant regeneration capability.
90003082|During the examinations we isolated bacteria from soil of some areas which are covered by litter and have previously been under crop. Our aim was to point out the possible differences in the lipid composition in case of bacterium strains of certain bacterium species which are living in the four different and diversely polluted ecological habitats. The environment can change and affect the bacterial lipid composition. The diversity of microorganism in soil is a critical factor, regarding the maintenance of good soil health. Changes in fatty acid composition of bacteria can indicate the environmental load on soils. According to our results, we can establish that different soil pollutions induce qualitative and quantitative changes in the lipid composition of microorganisms. FAME (fatty acid methyl-ester)-analysis can be effectively used for demodulation of environmental stress factors. According to our results, we can establish that different soil pollutions induce qualitative and quantitative changes in FAME composition of
90003439|Tillage interrupts natural processes in the soil. The greater the difference between man-made and natural state the heavier is the stress on soil biological activities. An intervention deforming the soil structure will have both positive and negative impacts on plants. Heavier negative impacts may cause stress. Tillageinduced compaction is an abnormal change in the soil structure causing stress both directly and indirectly. Until recent years scientists knew more about compaction than did farmers, who tended to explain losses by referring to adverse weather conditions. Research is now underway in two directions: studying soil state in soil quality trials and monitoring selected fields in 67 districts. In the course of our research we have been studying some climatic, edaphic and tillage stress factors. This paper comprises an evaluation of certain impacts of tillage pans on the soil (structure) and plants (root zone depth). One important finding is proof of structure degradation in the wake of interventions that have a negative impact on the soil biological activity along with proof of structure improvement in the wake of tillage causing as little stress as possible. Compaction was found to be a stressor limiting water transport and aggregation in the soil and aggravating damage caused by drought and waterlogging alike. Plants responded to compaction stress in terms of weakened emergence, deficient nutrient and water uptake, root deformation, and low yields.
23787106|Field studies were conducted in northeastern Mexico in 1992 and 1993 to determine the effect of wild sunflower density on its own growth and interference in spring wheat, and the effectiveness of triasulfuron and thifensulfuron on wild sunflower chemical control. Full -season interference of wild sunflower at 2, 4, 8, 16, and 32 plants/m2 decreased spring wheat grain yields by 27, 49, 60, 71 and 75%, respectively, compared to weed-free plots. Wild sunflower was more competitive with spring wheat at low densities and intraspecific interference was evident at 12 plants/m2. As a result of intraspecific interference, individual wild sunflower weight decreased and height increased as number of plants/m2 increased. Triasulfuron at 10.1 g/ha and thifensulfuron at 18.8 g/ha provided excellent (> 90%) wild sunflower control and adequate wheat yields. This research indicates that wild sunflower at densities as low as 1 plant/m2 reduces spring wheat grain yield significantly, and that both triasulfuron and thifensulfuron are good options for its chemical control.
23783085|Twenty-two grain sorghum genotypes [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] were evaluated for yielding ability under five varied treatments of water stress during 1987 and 1988 seasons. The relative stability of these genotypes were computed across environments. Highly significant differences due to environments, genotypes, and their interactions were detected for all the studied traits. Yield reduced greatly as a result of water stress shortage during flowering stage, while, 1000-kernel weight was much affected by moisture stress during grain filling period. Eight genotypes surpasses significantly the check cultivar Giza 15 in yielding ability. However, only one genotype exceeded the check in 1000-kernel weight. Some genotypes which were superior in panicle weight and grain yield showed average stability Hence, the other superior genotypes were not stable. The highly stable yield genotypes were nos. 9, 11, 12 and 18. The commercial cultivar Giza 15 gave high yielding ability but unstable.
90003272|The objective of bio-essay carried on in 2007 was to evaluate the aggressiveness of 27
90002968|Information about cultivar yielding ability and some other important agronomic traits in trials over years and locations are valuable piece in precision farming puzzle, for breeders and producers booth. Consequently, with that aim field trials with seven cultivars of winter wheat (representing about 40% of production share in Croatia) were set up as RCB design with three repetitions and two seeding rates (600 kernels/m
23787212|Differential virulence of Pyrenophora tritici-repentis (PTR) on durum wheat (Triticum turgidum var. durum Desf.) and bread wheat (T. aestivum L.) may be the first concern in developing a strategy for breeding cultivars resistant to tan spot. The objective of this study was to evaluate the variation in virulence and host specificity in PTR isolates from North Dakota, USA and Morocco. Eleven wheat genotypes were inoculated with nine PTR isolates collected in North Dakota and by eight isolates collected from different regions of Morocco. The experiments were planted in the greenhouse as split-plots, using isolates as main plots and wheat genotypes as subplots. Lesion size on individual leaves was used for disease ratings. Highly significant host genotype, pathogen isolate, and genotype X isolate effects were observed in both experiments. Cluster analysis indicated that differences among clusters of PTR isolates were larger in North Dakota, but more dissimilar patterns were observed in Moroccan isolates. Differences in host genotypes' ranking and disease reaction patterns indicated differences in virulence between the PTR isolates from North Dakota and Morocco.
23779353|Both kinetin and the two other examined cytokinins /benzimidazol, 6-benziladenin/ were effective in shortening the vernalization time of winter wheat. Treatment with two cytokinins /kinetin, benzimidazol/ in acetone solution also had some effect on the speed of the vernalization.
23789829|The contamination level of grain samples by Fusarium mycotoxin deoxynivalenol in the grains of wheat grown in different growing areas of Slovakia between 2004 and 2006 was investigated. DON content was analysed in 139 wheat samples from the maize, sugar beet and potato growing areas. The highest mean DON content was found in the potato growing area and lowest in the maize growing area. There was a positive correlation between DON content and rainfall in the growing areas. A negative correlation was found between the content of DON and temperature. The limit specified by the EU 1.25 mg kg1 DON content exceeded 9.3% of the samples from the maize growing area, 5% from the sugar beet growing area and 14.3% from the potato growing area. The results show the tendency of increasing toxin contamination of wheat grown from the maize and potato growing areas and also the need for more information on the problem about the distribution of Fusarium mycotoxins in wheat grown in Slovakia.
23783840|The effect of the anther culture method on agronomic and quality characters has been investigated in 6 spring wheat crosses. Doubled haploids have been compared with single seed descent derived lines from the same crosses in one- or two-year trials. Maturity, plant height, resistance to mildew and yellow rust, biological yield, grain yield, Falling Number, seed protein and SDS sedimentation have been studied. Analyses of variance detected highly significant genetic variation among genotypes derived by either method in all cross/character combinations. The DHs were inferior to their SSD counterparts in height and yield characters in four of the crosses. Maturity, resistance to mildew, Falling Number and seed protein (%) were unaffected.Resistance to yellow rust was reduced in four crosses and SDS showed no consistent pattern. The results indicate that negative effects of anther culture occur, but their presence and magnitude depend on the cross and character studied. It is suggested that the conflicting reports of anther culture effects on agronomic characters in wheat may be a reflection of the different genotypes studied.
90003314|FHB of wheat is a serious regional problem in Punjab. An outstanding bread wheat line RP-1/10 and three durum lines viz; WH 896, HD 4715 and MPO 1192-resistant to FHB have been identified. Aphids are important insect-pests in wheat and the FHB severity can be significantly reduced by more than 30%, by controlling these aphids by the application of Monocrotophos (insecticide) at boot + heading or at heading alone. A single application of Monocrotophos @ 0.1% followed 72h later by Tilt@0.1% at heading significantly improved FHB control and grain yield. The strobilurin fungicide-Amistar@ 0.1%, applied as a single spray at heading, was the best treatment in reducing FHB severity and improving grain yield. The efficacy of the fungicide was much higher in bread wheat compared to durum wheat. The results suggest that wheat aphids are important in FHB development and their management through insecticide in combination with fungicide can reduce FHB and improve grain yield.
23777708|Glucosyltransferase activity was extracted from maize seedlings, mature seed, leaves, and sheath. The enzyme was assayed for the formation of isoquercitrin although chrysanthemin was formed as well. Ammonium sulfate fractionation resulted in a two to seven fold purification of the enzyme.
23778569|Gibberellic acid was found to be very effective in breaking the seed dormancy in wheat over a wide range of concentrations. Lower concentrations of GA were ineffective while the higher concentrations delayed the initiation of germination. IAA, NAA and kinetin were practically ineffective. In a cultivar with no seed dormancy ABA inhibited germination which was overcome by GA. Endogenous ABA might be responsible for inducing seed dormancy in wheat.
90003300|Chromosome rearrangements between fungal strains may reduce fertility in sexual crosses through the production of genetically inviable recombinant progeny. As such, rearrangements can be important postzygotic reproductive barriers that contribute to the speciation process. The presence of chromosome rearrangements in crosses with
23779383|The study was conducted on 25 entries in the Fifth International Winter Wheat Performance Nursery. The cultivars, originating from different countries, were grown at the Agronomy Research Station, Stillwater, Oklahoma, U.S.A. The analysis of variance of all characters under the study showed that cultivars were different (P=.01) for all the characters studied; therefore, the nursery was suitable for the purpose of this study with cultivars differing genetically for all tracts. There was no significant difference among the top six cultivars for yield (L.S.D. .05). Golden Valley (Zg 5994/64) produced the highest yield ranking 8th, 5th, and 18th respectively, for kernel weight, kernel/spike and tillers. Among the yield components, kernel weight was the most important and tiller number the least important in terms of their influence on grain yield. Most high yielding cultivars had high kernel weight. The lowyielding cultivars were mostly late, and their maturity was hastened by hot, dry wind. A highly significant positive correlation between yield and kernel weight and significant positive correlation between yield and peduncle length was obtained. Yield was highly negatively correlated to percent protein and days to heading. Yield was positively related to kernels per spike, flag leaf area, flag leaf width, and chaff weight, but none of these correlations were significant. A good balance of yield components with more emphasis on seed weight should be helpful in selecting for increased yield.
23785339|Triticale is a material in evolution; thus, it carries typical reproductive problems of those individuals with two genomes in an unique cytoplasm and where the stabilization process is yet evolving. The objectives of this study were to estimate the strict sense heritability of spikelet fertility and meiotic index in hexaploid triticale and to determine the respective correlated responses and those related to several agronomical traits. Sixty 60 F2: 3 families were evaluated during 1997 using a completely randomized design. A random sample of five principal culms per family was taken in order to analyse ten traits. A 0.25 and 0.38 values of realized heritabilities were obtained for spikelet fertility an meiotic index, respectively.Correlated responses respect to grain number and grain yield per spike, but not for other agronomic and cytologic characters analysed were observed when the plants were selected according the spikelet fertility selection criteria. The grain number per spikelet could be used as selection criteria to improve it and indirectly grain yield per spike.
23790075|Superior grain quality is the main goal of rice breeders because of its high commercial value. Progress in selection for grain quality with yield in harsh environments is markedly affected by environmental variation. The genotype by environmental (G  E) interaction influence on grain quality was analyzed in this study, comprised of 17 rice hybrids grown in six location-year environments. The objective of this study was to examine the influence of G  E interaction for grain quality in hybrid rice by using AMMI model. Results of the trial revealed that grain quality was highly influenced by environmental factors and brings out the suitability of specific genotype to specific location/season through the biplot. On the other hand, external environmental variables can be regressed on the environmental scores to lead to a useful biological interpretation of the interaction effects, which is not possible in additive effect models. The implications of these results for rice hybrids on grain quality in varied environmental location are discussed.
23780420|Case histories of sprouting in 1976 and 1977 are presented. Sprouting can occur before some predictive methods would be applied to assess sprout susceptibility. The possible physiological basis of this is briefly discussed.
23787234|In three field experiments, conducted in 1998, 1999 and 2000, the pollen shedding of six Polish triticale cultivars and the effect of their proportion on seed set on five male sterile forms with Triticum timopheevi cytoplasm were tested. In the cultivars, the anther extrusion was high (78.0 - 97.3%) and they differed in anther length and pollen shedding intensity. Pollen viability was almost uniform and averaged 97.5%. With changing the proportion of the male sterile forms to the pollen parents from 1:2 to 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1 and 8:1 the number of pollen grains on pollen traps gradually decreased. The seed set on the male sterile forms was only slightly affected when their ratio to the pollen parent rows was as high as 8:1. The average seed set in the females averaged 59.2%, 68.4% and 70.4% compared to 86.2%, 86.6% and 90.3% in the male parents, in 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively. The seed set in the lines was negatively correlated with the difference in the flowering time between the lines and the pollinators. The seed yield was significantly positively associated with the number of seeds per spike and the number of spikes per plot. Except for the ratio 8:1, there were no significant relationships between the seed set, the amount of pollen on pollen traps and the proportion of pollinators.
23790362|The mechanism of the fact that Mn deficiency damages the photosynthesis of plants is not yet fully understood. The main aim of the study was to determine Mn deficiency effects in photophosphorylation and key enzymes of CO 2 assimilation of maize. Maize plants were cultivated in Hoagland's solution. They were subjected to Mn deficiency and to Mn administered in the Mn-deficient Hoagland's media. The results showed that Mn deficiency was found to cause extensive declines in plant weight and chlorophyll a content, electron transport and oxygen-evolving rate, photophosphorylation rate, activities of Mg 2+ -ATPase, Ca 2+ -ATPase, Rubisco and Rubisco activase, and mRNA expressions of Rubisco and Rubisco activase of maize, but it only slightly affected chlorophyll b and carotenoid formation. However, Mn addition decreased the inhibition of the photosynthesis in maize caused by Mn deficiency.
90002758|During our R&D works we have been worked out different GC and GC-MS methods for the separation and identification of vitamin E isomers and some phytosterols from different type of breeded oil seed samples. We optimised the sample preparation, separation, identification, and quantitative determination steps.
23790016|Simple sequence repeat (SSR) DNA markers were used to characterize the genetic diversity in 70 accessions of Aegilops crassa from Iran as well as to determine relationships among these accessions with 9 accessions of Aegilops tauschii (subsp. tauschii and strangulata) and 5 Triticum aestivum landraces. All twenty SSR primer pairs were polymorphic and identified a total number of 149 alleles corresponding to an average of 7.5 alleles per locus. The highest and lowest PIC values were obtained in subsp. strangulata and Ae. crassa accessions, respectively. Data obtained were used to estimate genetic similarity using the Dice coefficient, and dendrogram was constructed using the UPGMA method. The dendrogram separated the 84 accessions into two main groups. All species grouped according to their genomes. A good level of genetic diversity was observed in the accessions of Ae. crassa, even in geographically close regions, which can be used in the broadening of the genetic base of bread wheat. In addition, T. aestivum and subsp. tauschii were clustered further away from Ae. crassa, confirming probably chromosomal rearrangements in the D genome of Ae. crassa during the processes of evolution
90002788|The objectives of this study were to determine variation for important agronomic traits of alfalfa collection and to identify valuable germplasm that could be used in alfalfa breeding programs in brown soil. Fifteen cultivars/populations of differing geographical origin were evaluated. Investigation was carried out at location Osijek for a period of two years (2004 and 2005). Field trial was arranged in a randomized complete block design with three replications. Ten agronomic traits were analysed: dry matter yield, number of stems per plant, plant height, regeneration after cutting, protein yield, number of internodes per stem, leaf to stem ratio, content of crude protein, neutral and acid detergent fibre. High yields and favourable values for the most of the investigated traits were found for Australian cultivars
23781337|The study of the incidence of Septoria nodorum on the dry matter accumulation and water weight evolution in the grain was made in Aegilops squarrosa n 33 and Triticum aestivum cv. "Champlein". Ae. squarrosa n 33 is weakly attacked by S. nodorum and its 1000 grain weight is not altered T. aestivum cv. "Champlein" is more susceptible and the decrease of 1000 grain weight reaches 11 % although the weather conditions were not favorable to the disease. Considerations on the use of Ae. squarrosa in a breeding program are given.
23789791|Partial abortion of gametes possessing S-5j in S-5i /S-5j genotype at locus S-5 is responsible for hybrid sterility between indica and japonica subspecies in rice (Oryza sativa L.), while a single wide compatibility (WC) allele S-5n can restore normal hybrid fertility between the two groups. In this study, Pei'ai 64S, one of the most popular WC line widely used for subspecific hybrid rice breeding program in South China was studied for location of its S-5 locus. Twenty SSR (Simple Sequence Repeat) markers derived from Cornell SSR linkage map and 9 developed using sequences from GenBank database were employed to perform bulked segregant analysis of the mapping population derived from a three-way cross (Pei'ai 64S/T8//Akihikari) to tag fine location of the hybrid sterility locus, S-5. This S-5 locus was mapped on chromosome 6 approximately 0.2 cM from GXR6 and RM276 SSR markers. This tight linkage of the markers and the S-5 locus would be very useful for efficient marker-assisted selection for WC varieties and for map-based cloning of the gene.
90002808|Results of the long-term experiments on chernozem soil proved that cropyear, mainly via its water supply, had a major impact on the natural nutrient utilization, yield surpluses of fertilization, maximum yield and optimal N+PK dosage in the case of winter wheat varieties. In years with favourable water supply (such as 2005) and in dry years (2007), the maximum yield of varieties ranged between 7700-8500 kg ha
23789309|In the years 2003 and 2004, diametrically different in temperature, in total amount of precipitation and in its distribution during vegetation, winter wheat lines in generations F4 and F5, originated from seven crossings, and with three local adapted varieties, were examined in field experiments. This study was conducted to assess effects of year and genotype on the rate of biomass produced till anthesis from total one at maturity and the rate of photosynthate produced before anthesis in grain. In hot and dry conditions of the year 2003, in comparison to 2004 (higher precipitation, lower temperature), lower total biomass was produced (1258 g.m2 to 1859 g.m2), higher rate of accumulated biomass till anthesis (60 % to 52 %) and higher portion of translocated biomass in grain (15 % to 13.6 %), and lower grain yield (591 g.m2 to 782 g.m2) were observed. Differences occurred among crossings and lines within crossing in ratio of photosynthate produced till anthesis in grain. The ratio of translocated photosynthate in grain on one side and grain yield and total produced biomass on the other side, were negative correlated. Genotypes with high proportion of translocated dry matter in grain are recommended for marginal growing areas. For intensive growing areas, genotypes with high biomass production and with higher biomass portion from anthesis to maturity are required. Rate of translocated biomass in grain depends on the harvest index, and on the portion of biomass produced till anthesis from the total one.
23792373|Wheat yellow rust resistance gene Yr17 was originated from the wheat-Aegilops ventricosa introgression, and still effective on the adult plant in Southern China. The previous studies located the gene Yr17 on the translocation of 2NS-2AS using the molecular and cytological markers. In the present study, we screened new PCR-based markers to map the gene Yr17 region from the investigation of a segregating 120 F2 population. All markers including four EST-PCR markers, a SCAR (sequence characterized amplified region) and a PLUG (PCR based landmark unique gene) marker specific to Yr17 gene were mapped on the chromosome 2AS, and located on the chromosomal deletion bin 2AS5-0.8-1.00 region. Based on the wheat-rice collinearity, we found that the sequences of the Yr17 gene linked markers were comparatively matched at rice chromosome 4 and chromosome 7. However, the identified closely linked genomic sequence of Yr17 gene is most likely collinear with genomic region of rice chromosome 4. The newly produced PCR based markers closely linked to Yr17 gene will be useful for the marker-assisted selection in wheat breeding for rust resistance.
23783953|Anther culture of 3 genotypes of tetraploid wheat (Triticum durum, T. dicoccum and T. turgidum) were cultured on four kinds of media (three synthetic media (C17, W14 and MN6) and Potato-2 medium). Genotypic differences were obtained in the microspore-derived embryoid formation on each medium. The C17 medium containing 0.26M maltose as a carbohydrate source was the most effective for the microspore-derived embryoid formation in tetraploid wheat. Green plants were obtained in T. durum var. agricunum, T. dicoccum var. farrum, T. persicum var. stramineum.
23790043|Cytomixis has been described in many plant species, but not in Thinopyrum. The present study reports spontaneous cytomixis during microsporogenesis in Thinopyrum intermedium (2n = 42), Thinopyrum ponticum (2n = 70), and their F 1 hybrids with wheat. Cytomixis frequently occurred in early prophase I but very rarely in meiosis II. The type of cytomixis that occurred most often was where chromatins migrate from one nucleus into an adjacent cel1. Migration from one nucleus into two or more cells or from two or more nuclei into one cel1 was also observed. After a donor cell transferred chromatin to a recipient cell, the recipient cell would sometimes pass the chromatin on to another cell. Migration did not necessarily occur between cells in the same stage. Cytomixis in Th. ponticum and its hybrids with wheat was more complex than that in Th. intermedium. The possible causes, cytological consequences and genetic significance of cytomixis are discussed.
90002863|Thirty-four isolates taken from the head surface of winter wheat varieties were investigated for azoxystrobin and propiconazole plus cyproconazole resistance and degradation ability. The 22 isolated bacteria were able to grow in the presence of both fungicides, but their degradation ability could not be verified. The 3
90003377|The experiment with increased rates of fertilization was conducted in spring of 2003 in Badljevina (west edge of Pozega-Slavonia County). Total seven treatments were applied as follows (kg ha
90002676|Soil flux measurements of nitrous oxide and methane have been carried out at a grassland site between August 2006 and July 2007. Eight static chambers and a GC-FID-ECD system have been used for sampling and determination, respectively. Mean soil emission of nitrous oxide is 0.15 kg Nha
90003384|Plant adapt to heat stress by morphological, biochemical and metabolic changes. Sweet sorghum is a C
23788195|Xinjiang rice wheat (Triticum petropavlovskyi Udacz. et Migush, 2n=6x=42, AABBDD) is one of the endemic Chinese wheats, only distributing in Xinjiang and Xizang (Tibet), China. A novel high-molecular-weight (HMW) glutenin subunit gene 1Dx2.1 was isolated and characterized from Xinjiang rice wheat accession Daomai2. The complete open reading frame (ORF) of 1Dx2.1 is 2508 bp, encoding 836 amino acids. The primary structure of 1Dx2.1 consists of three distinct domains, a non-repetitive N-terminal domain with 89 residues, a non-repetitive C-terminal domain with 42 residues and a large central repetitive domain with 684 residues. In the N-terminal of 1Dx2.1, there is an R (arginine) at position 75, whereas there is a Q (glutamine) in other known x-type subunits. Four cysteine residues are observed in 1Dx2.1 with three in the N-terminal region and one in the C-terminal region. The number and distribution of cysteines in 1Dx2.1 are identical to those in x-type subunits except for 1Dx5, which possesses an extra cysteine residue. Differences between the repetitive domain of 1Dx2.1 and those of known HMW subunits resulted from substitutions, insertions or/and deletions involving single or more amino acid residues. The phylogenetic tree, which was constructed on the basis of amino acid sequences, and indicated that 1Dx2.1 was highly related to 1Dx2.1t, then to 1Dx2 and 1Dx5.
23787172|To locate the genes controlling field and laboratory predictors of drought tolerance, chromosome addition lines of Agropyron elongatum (donor) into the genetic background of Chinese Spring (recipient) were tested in the field, green house and laboratory conditions. Disomic addition lines revealed significant differences for relative water content (RWC), relative water loss (RWL), water use efficiency (WUE), chlorophyll flourescence (CHF) and stomatal resistance (SR), indicating genetic variation and possibility of selection for improving drought tolerance. Physiological indicators of relative water loss and water use efficiency showed a great contribution in the regression equation of yield under stress. Based on the physiological multiple selection index (MSI) most of the QTLs controlling physiological indices of drought tolerance were located on chromosomes 3E, 5E and 7E. Evaluation of disomic addition lines indicated that most of the genes monitoring stress tolerance index (STI) and germination stress index (GSI) are located on chromosomes 3E, 5E and 7E. It is therefore, suggested that these lines to be used in the breeding programs to transfer useful drought tolerance traits into wheat genetic background.
23784233|Tissue cultures of 12 genotypes of Triticum aestivum and 2 genotypes of T. durum were established from immature embryos on Murashige and Skoog's (MS) (1962) medium supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (2.5 mg/l). Both the non-regenerative and the regenerative type of calluses developed from all the genotypes. The compact, white regenerative callus was maintained on the medium having 2,4-D (2.5 mg/l) by regular sub-culturing for more than 3 years. Plant regeneration from the regenerative type of callus occurred on MS medium supplemented with Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) (0.2 mg/l) + 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) (1.0 mg/l). Regenerated shoots or plantlets were rooted on MS medium supplemented with IAA (0.5 mg/l). The well developed plantlets were transferred to pots under field conditions. Seeds were collected from fertile plants for somaclonal variation studies in the subsequent generations.
23787297|The quantity of four enzymes belonging to the antioxidant system (glutathione-Stransferase, ascorbate peroxidase, guaycol peroxidase and glutathione reductase) was determined in plant material raised and hardened under field conditions. One variety each of the winter cereal species wheat, barley, rye, triticale, durum wheat and oats were used for the analyses. The varieties were sown in small plots at the optimum date (in mid-October) in 1999 and 2000. Plant samples were taken at three dates at the beginning (December), in the middle (January) and at the end (late February or March) of both winters. The exact dates were determined on the basis of the state of hardening and the weather conditions. When the frost resistance of the cereal varieties was determined in the phytotron, the rye variety Motto was found to be the most resistant, followed by the winter wheat Mortonvsri 18, the triticale Presto, the durum wheat Odmadur 1, the winter barley Hardy, the winter durum wheat GK Basa, the winter oat varieties, which had very poor frost resistance, and finally the spring oat variety Freja. The activity of the antioxidant enzymes was greater in cereal species with good frost resistance than in those with poor resistance. Differences in enzyme activity were also found within the varieties at different stages of hardening, but these were smaller than those between the varieties. It can be seen from the results that antioxidant enzymes help to protect cereals from the damaging effect of the active oxygen species produced in substantial quantities during exposure to frost.
23777444|A diallel of six wheat cultivars was studied in the F2 generation in respect of grain yield and its two components- grain number and weight. Non-allelic interactions played an important role in the inheritance of grain yield. The interactions were localised to S339 parent. The interactions were, however, useful and the cross of S339 with PV18 was predicted to give high yielding lines. Both the components were controlled largely by additive gene action and showed partial dominance. The crosses of PV18 with S210, S386, S339 and C273, and C273  S339 were predicted to be promising for the three traits. Simple progeny selection could be used to handle these crosses in the subsequent generations.
23788181|The adaptability of twelve single cross maize hybrids was investigated at five different locations in Hungary over a three-year period. The characters examined were individual plant production (total mass of the ears on a single plant), thousand kernel mass, number of kernel rows, ear length, number of kernels per row, shelling % and the assimilating leaf area above the main ear. Among these yield components, the individual plant production, the ear length, the number of kernels per row and the grain-cob ratio (shelling %) were influenced to the greatest extent by the year, followed by the variety and the location. The greatest average yield was achieved by the tested hybrids at all five locations in 1997 (263 g/plant). The average yields in 1998 and 1999 were significantly lower (221 and 203 g/plant, respectively). The outstanding yields achieved in 1997 could be attributed to the favourable ecological conditions, which led to the development of secondary ears in Keszthely and Sopronhorpcs. At the other three locations there was only one ear per plant, but these ears were longer than in the following years. The greatest year effect was recorded in Sopronhorpcs, where the individual plant production amounted to 305 g/plant in 1997 and 238 g/plant in the worst year, 1999. In Gyngys conditions were very dry in all three years, so the year effect was least pronounced at this location (grand mean of 195 g/plant in 1997 and 201 g/plant in 1999). Stability analysis was carried out using the coefficient of variance for individual plant production. Hybrids Mv 3, Mv 5, Mv 9 and Mv 12 were found to have the best adaptability. The shelling % was not significantly influenced by the location; the grain-cob ratio is relatively stable for maize hybrids. A correlation was found between the individual plant production and the leaf area above the main ear (R2=0.66). Hybrids with the largest leaf area above the main ear also had the greatest ear mass.
23785294|In wheat breeding, the selection for good flour quality requires methods of quality testing which can be carried out quickly on small samples, for example the SDS test. The objectives of the present study were to determine the heritability of the flour SDS sedimentation volume in generations F1, F2 and F3 of 4 crosses of 3 Hungarian and 4 North American winter wheat varieties. The dominance of a variety with a lower sedimentation volume was generally observed in generation F1, but the means for generations F2 and F3 of crosses were similar to their midparent values. The heterosis depended on the crop-year and plant density, too. For two crosses, the heritability (h2) and gene number could be estimated via the means and variances for different generations. The heritability estimates in a broad sense (h2b) of the combinations Gb/Andr and Be/WA were 0.56 and 0.63, respectively, which imply a rather good heritability. The h2 values in narrow sense were 0.50 and 0.35, respectively; these were quite good estimates, since the quality is strongly affected by environmental factors. It was assumed that the SDS sedimentation test can be used as an effective tool of selection for breadmaking quality. Gene number estimations indicate that the differences in the SDS sedimentation volumes of the parents of these two combinations are caused by one gene.
23789308|Wheat genotypes from various Triticum L. genus species (T. dicoccoides Krn, T. durum Desf, T. spelta L. and T. aestivum L.) were analysed by stereological analysis in order to explore the existence of inter-species differences and similarities in anatomical characteristics of wheat flag leaf tissue. The genotypes of the tetraploid species did not differ significantly among themselves in the volume density of the analysed tissues of the flag leaf. Among the hexaploid species, the results showed highly significant differences in volume density of the photosynthetic tissue and volume density of the mechanical tissue; and significant differences for the volume density of the vascular tissue. The analysis of the main vein of the flag leaf showed smaller volumes of the vascular tissue in hexaploid species  of the phloem and parenchyma of the main vein. The analysed species showed the greatest difference in the volume of the main vein, the parenchyma of the main vein and the mechanical tissue. When compared to the volume and volume density of the xylem of the main vein, the tetraploid species had greater volumes and volume densities of the mechanical tissue of the main vein. With hexaploid species the results were reverse.
23786248|A field experiment was conducted during rabi season, 1995 at research farm of Chaudhary Charan Singh, Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar to study the sunflower development in relation to growing degree days (GDD). Two sunflower genotypes namely; 'HS-1' and 'Morden' were sown in sandy loam soil on 24th September, 1995 and 24th October, 1995. The growing degree days were computed using 5C base temperature for different phenophases of sunflower genotypes. The GDD required for vegetative emergence, vegetative stage and reproductive stage by HS-1 genotype were 149.5, 463.4 and 761.7 day C, respectively. The corresponding values for 'Morden' genotype were 103.9, 470.4 and 585.3 days C, respectively. HS-1 genotype required 215 days C more GDD to complete its growth cycle. The days taken for occurrence of different phenotypes were correlated with GDD in both the genotypes. The regression models are as under : Y1 = 0.0771x1.001GDD xGDD0.8909 (R2=0.9992) Y2 = 2.428+0.0304GDD+0.0000314 GDD2 (R2=0.9993) Where Y1 and Y2 are the days of occurrence for different phenophases in HS-1 and Morden genotypes respectively. On the basis of these studies, it was concluded that these models could be used for prediction of development of sunflower grown in semi-arid region.
23779257|Based on the poligenic inheritance of most of the characteristics valuable in a wheat breeding program, a new method of cross-planning was developed to find new genotypes with dwarfness, good standability, yielding potential etc. By this method the selection of partners can be made more consciously and the results show that this breeding scheme makes possible to select those genotypes which can be valuable for largescale production.
23783887|Eight parent half diallel set involving four spring and four winter triticale lines was studied over three unilocation environments. The three environments under study were observed to be divergent. The mean squares due to genotypes were highly significant for all the characters evaluated. Both general combining ability(GCA) and specific combining ability(SCA) variances were influenced by environmental conditions, thereby suggesting that to have unbiased estimates of GCA and SCA, such studies be made over a range of environments. The non-additive gene effects were more pronouced in the inheritance of charactrers under study. On the basis of per se performance and GCA effects, winter parent WTCB 29 was adjudged as being the best overall combiner for grain yield, number of grains per spike and second best combiner for 1000 grain weight while TL 1210 emerged as the best combiner for 1000-grain weight and harvest index. The desirable crosses on the basis of SCA effects were : WTCB 29 x JNIT 108(winter x spring), WTCB 29 x WTCB 21 and WTCB 22 x WTCB 119 both involving winter x winter parents.
90002739|Computer analysis was used to separate the very fast, fast and slow carbonate dissolution reactions in the genetic horizons of a Keszthely chernozem soil. In the 0-25 cm, 25-45 cm, 45-64 cm and 64-115 cm horizons of the soil the manometric data were analyzed in the coarse sand and clay fractions. The fitted first order kinetic equations very well described the parallel reactions. At the same time calcite and dolomite were used to demonstrate the fast and slow dissolution reactions, respectively. During soil development the fast dissolution process disappeared from the coarse sand fraction of the upper horizon, but this process significantly increased in the accumulation horizon both in the coarse sand and clay fractions.
23787269|The aim of this work was to compare the effects of water deficit on chlorophyll content, chlorophyll fluorescence and photosynthetic oxygen evolution in the drought tolerant triticale (tricosecale wittmack; Triticum aestivum L. x Secale cereale L.) cv. Eronga and the wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cv. Temporalera (tolerant to water stress) and Ciano (sensitive to water stress) during the vegetative stage. Triticale and wheat cultivars were grown in a greenhouse. Water deficit was induced by withholding irrigation during 15 days after the first to fourth leaf blade had emerged. After each of these periods, plants were well-watered. Chlorophyll content, chlorophyll fluorescence and photosynthetic electron transport were evaluated after water deficit and after rewatering. Except for the rate fluorescence variable/maximum, significant interaction genotype x water condition x number of leaf can be interpreted as indicating that genotype x water condition relation differs depending on the developmental stage (leave number exposed) when deficit water was induced. It was clear that when the third leaf blade had emerged water deficit induced substantial alterations. Rewatering affected chlorophyll content and this did not depend on the genotype; in contrast, in chlorophyll fluorescence and oxygen evolution genotype x re-watering condition depended on the leaf number. In both, wheat and triticale, the third leaf blade hardly recuperated their physiological activities after re-watered.
23786178|Fusarium head blight (FHB) has caused devastating losses to barley growers in ND, MN and SD since 1993. A major component of these losses has been the formation of protein synthesis inhibitor trichothecene toxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON) by the Fusarium species that cause FHB. Genetic transformation of barley with genes that chemically inactivate or transport the toxins out of cells has potential for reducing DON levels. The ability to directly select for callus cells transformed with these genes would simplify production of transgenic plants and avoid the introduction of a second selectable gene. Differences in seedling germination and growth on medium containing toxin would help identify transgenic plants expressing the antitoxin genes. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of DON and the related toxin diacetoxyscirpenol (DAS) on barley callus growth and seedling germination, root and shoot growth. The effects of the toxins on callus growth were small. Although statistically significant differences were seen at the higher toxin levels after eight weeks, the differences were not large enough for selection between toxin resistant and toxin susceptible calli. Neither toxin had an effect on seed germination. DON at 5 and 10 mg/L significantly reduced root growth by day 7, and 10mg/L significantly reduced shoot growth by day 4. The effects of DAS were greater, with all toxin levels significantly reducing root growth by day 2 and shoot growth by day 4. The results indicate that DAS maybe usable for screening progeny of transgenic plants for expression and segregation of anti-toxin genes.
90003289|Fusarium Head Blight (FHB) is one the most important diseases in small grain cereals and often is caused by a complex of
90002870|It is known, that on soils with better characteristics a higher yield can be produced, than on poorer soils. It has been, however, indicated that a higher yield can also be achieved by improving nutrient supply in fertilisers. Several plots have been created on sandy soil with humus around Kecskemt with soil well supplied with phosphorus, potassium, calcium, magnesium and microelements. These plots differed only in their nitrogen supply. Our results has shown how much corn ear, grain and grain-dry matter were produced in case of sweet corn with different nitrogen supply.
23783078|A durum wheat collection comprising of about 8500 accessions was evaluated for drought tolerance at Breda (Northern Syria) in small, single row plots by a visual field observation based on a nine-level score. A set of standard plot size experiments was established to assess the efficacy of the visual evaluation and the optimal degree of complexity of the evaluation score. The nine-level score was compared with other scores characterized by three and five levels respectively on randomly selected materials as well as on elite germplasm already selected for drought tolerance. The nine-level score always gave the highest correlation to grain yield, which rose to values of 0.88 and 0.82 for the whole of the materials planted in two stress sites in 1988-89, coupled with a generally greater sensitivity and capability to detect the best grain yielding lines. When compared to randomly selected germplasm, the materials selected from the collection according to the nine-level score showed grain yield advantages of 98.8 % and 74.3 % in two stress sites, while considering the whole of these materials the correlations between site grain yield and catalog evaluation score from the previous seasons of evaluation were 0.70 and 0.59 in the same locations.
23789313|Tan spot of wheat caused by Drechslera tritici-repentis is a major leaf spot disease. The objectives of this work were to estimate the incidence of D. tritici-repentis in wheat seed using different techniques, determine the rate of seed transmission under greenhouse and field conditions, and to evaluate fungicide seed treatments for disease control. The incidence of seed infection was 22.5%; 17.5% and 11.25% on a selective medium for Cochliobolus sativus, lima bean agar and in the deep-freezing method respectively. On agar, the fungus produced black immature pseudothecia on the seeds and sometimes on the roots; the pseudothecia maturated after 30 days in darkness at 5C. The pathogen was transmitted from seed to coleoptiles of symptomless plumules seedlings at a rate of 15.5% under greenhouse conditions, and to the plumule with tan spot symptom at a rate of 31% under field conditions. The seed treatment study indicated that a mixture of iprodione + triticonazole was the most effective treatment, reducing the rate of transmission from 31% to 8.8%. This is the first report of detection and transmission of D. tritici repentis in wheat seed in Argentina. The importance of infected seed and its epidemiological role are discussed.
90002662|A field experiment was conducted in order to determine the influence of contrasting soils on sweet corn (
23784271|Thiocarbamate - acetochlor interaction was investigated in the presence of MG-191 safener in corn (Zea mays L.), oat (Avena sativa L.), ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), pea (Pisum sativum L.) and velvetleaf (Abutilon theophrasti Medik.) under provocative growth-room conditions. Treatments containing EPTC were more toxic than those of butylate to the plants investigated with the exception of corn. Thiocarbamate sensitive corn hybrid was more susceptible to safened mixtures of herbicides as well. The thiocarbamate - acetochlor combinations showed synergism in sensitive corn hybrid, weeds and plants investigated. Thus precise application of thiocarbamate - acetochlor mixture containing herbicides is suggested.
23787199|The most abundant jasmonate-induced protein (JIP) in barley leaves is a 23 kDa protein (JIP23). Its function, however, is unknown. In order to analyze its function by homologous transformation, new plasmid vectors have been constructed. They carry the cDNA coding for JIP23 in sense or antisense orientation under the control of the Ubi-1-promoter as well as the pat resistance gene under the control of the 35S promoter. Barley mesophyll protoplasts were transiently transformed with the sense constructs. PAT activity and immunological detection of JIP23 could be achieved in transformed protoplasts but not in untransformed protoplasts indicating that the construct was active. Thus, these new vectors are suitable for stable transformation of barley. Carrying a multiple cloning site (MCS), these vectors can be used now in a wide range of transformation of barley.
23785262|Under Hungarian conditions, head blight (caused by Fusarium spp.) means a risk of infection for wheat between flowering and harvest. The infection level and the damages of economic importance may be significant for both quantitative and qualitative aspects. Its qualitative damages must be noted because Fusarium species does not only attack plant germs, but they may also produce toxins harmful to the health of man and animals. Following the epidemics of head blight in 1970, the National Plant Protection Organization provided for a regular survey of the nation-wide spread of wheat seed infection. Out of the 27 years studied, epidemic spread of the disease occurred in 9 years. Spread of head blight on a large area was supported by the rainy weather during heading and flowering of the wheat, but it was also influenced by the plant protection techniques used. It is necessary to go on with the survey of Fusarium internal seed infection started in 1970, because seed-dressing and control management can be recommended for the farmers based on the adequate infection events. However, in addition to the establishment of Fusarium infection level determining the sowing value of seeds, it is also necessary to define the toxins produced by the pathogens together with their volume.
23787213|Fusarium Head Blight (FHB) has become a disease of increasing concern in all wheat growing areas and the evidence suggests that currently available varieties in Northwestern Europe are susceptible to this disease. The purpose of this experiment was to assess the FHB resistance status of exotic germplasm. Exotic entries were compared with three locally adapted, susceptible check varieties under field conditions over three seasons (1997, 1998 and 1999). The exotic germplasm exhibited extensive variation in response to inoculation with local ecotypes of Fusarium culmorum. Several entries were characterised by consistently low levels of plant symptoms, kernel symptoms and grain yield reduction. A further two exotics may merit further investigation as possible sources of novel tolerance or resistance mechanisms. In addition to this elite germplasm the exotic entries also included ones that were consistently inferior to the locally adapted, check varieties. Thus, despite the fact that all of this germplasm had been ranked as resistant to FHB by CIMMYT it was evident that this resistance was not always expressed under Irish conditions. These results highlight the necessity for local evaluation.
23783858|A simple method is described for making efficient hand crosses in wheat (Triticum aestivum) parents with large differences in flowering dates. It involves the cold storage of emasculated plants at 5 C between emasculation and pollination. The seed set of cold-stored females was high when spikes were pollinated 30 days after emasculation (DAE). Female plants kept only in a greenhouse (30 C/20 C day/night temperature) without cold storage showed a poor seed set when pollinated 10 DAE, and the stigmas had completely lost their receptivity 15 DAE.
23786968|Quantitative adult-plant resistance is an alternative for short-lived single major-gene resistance in the control of wheat powdery mildew caused by Blumeria graminis (DC) E.O. Speer. Cultivar 'Knox 62' is known to have adult-plant resistance to powdery mildew, but the relationship between the genes conferring its resistance and corresponding chromosomes has not been documented. To determine the chromosomal locations of adult-plant resistance genes, Knox 62 was crossed with the susceptible disomic Chinese Spring and a full set of Chinese Spring monosomic lines. The adult plants of F2 populations and their parents were evaluated for resistance to powdery mildew in a condition of polycyclic infection, based on their infection type (IT), infected leaf area (ILA), area under disease development curve (AUDPC) and daily disease increase index (DDII) controlled in the glasshouse. Results indicated that the resistance genes in Knox 62 are mainly additive, and 7 chromosomes were involved in the adult-plant resistance of this cultivar. Chromosomes 5A, 7A, 4B and 5D carry genes showing positive effects on resistance, while chromosomes 3A, 1B and 1D have factors increasing susceptibility. The segregation of the disomic F2 populations and noncritical crosses fit a four-gene model, suggesting that chromosomes 5A, 7A, 4B and 5D each contain one gene or one cluster of tightly-linked genes.
23782883|'Clark's Cream' hard white winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) has excellent resistance to preharvest sprouting but poor plant type and genetic combining ability. It was crossed to six sprouting-susceptible hard white wheat lines, five of which have improved plant type. Sixty-five F2-derived lines from each cross were maintained until the F4 generation. Six to 24 plants each from 84 selected lines were grown in a glasshouse and evaluated for agronomic type. Main culm spikes were uniformly harvested and the grain was after-ripened for 12 d and then germinated for 10 d. Single plants were selected that had dormant seed and improved plant type. Thirty-eight of the single plant selections were increased, evaluated again, and released as sprouting-resistant germplasm lines.
90003061|Nowadays it is commonly accepted that we need a more efficient utilization of the natural resources. Organic agriculture is a comprehensive system affecting all levels of sustainability by the integrated approach to production which draws on century old traditions and the latest best practice based on scientific results to work in balance with nature. Under organic conditions different plant types are successful than in conventional conditions. The offsprings of the composite crossing YQMS/H2 originating from diverse wheat parents evaluated in this paper produced segregating population, resulting in a wide diversity in characteristics examined. Composite cross populations (CCPs) can provide dynamic gene pools and may be an efficient way of providing heterogeneous crops and of selecting superior pure lines for low input systems characterized by unpredictable stress conditions
23782748|4-Chloro-5-dimethylamino-2-phenyl-3(2H)-pyridazinon (BAS-10500W) was applied to the foliage of direct seeded rice in an effort to increase yield. There was no significant yield response in two experiments and a negative yield response in a third experiment; thus, under the conditions of these experiments BAS-10500W was not an effective yield enhancer for direct seeded rice.
23784285|Number of days to complete spike emergence is known to be influenced by vernalization, photoperiod, and temperature in winter wheat, Triticum aestivum L. In this study we observed the effect of pre- and post-vernalization clipping of leaves on days to complete spike emergence. Seedlings of one hard red spring and four hard red winter wheat cultivars were clipped immediately before or after a 49-day vernalization period. Pre-vernalization clipping significantly delayed emergence of the spike from 10 to 26 days depending upon the cultivar. Post-vernalization clipping delayed spike emergence of the spike an average of 3 days.
23781380|The existence of a relationship between the specific density and the nitrogen percentage of the grain has been studied in four wheat varieties. The type of relationship is obviously specific for the variety. The variation of seed density may reflect modifications of the internal structure of the endosperm rather than actual changes of the protein percentage. Mutants with increased nitrogen percentage have been selected from a small M5 population of the variety Cheyenne by selecting via seed density grains likely to have high protein percentage. The effectiveness of seed density fractionation in the selection of high protein wheat needs further confirmation. However, the simplicity of the method opens the possibility to screen millions of seeds to identify useful high protein variants.
90002667|Plant water supply of different crops in drought and normal weather years in the alluvial plain of the Szigetkz area is studied. Monthly precipitation sum, ground water table course, non-limited plant available soil water storage of three different soil varieties are evaluated considering the crop water demand. initiates about According to model calculations 2 mm daily water flux to the root zone for soils studied occurs at about 120 and 150 cm ground water table depth. It means that crop water supply is not highly dependent on the amount and distribution of precipitation in case of high ground water table course.. The non-limited available soil moisture storage proved to be suitable for judging the actual plant water supply.
23783942|Young age resistance of maize- and sunflower hybrids and of soybean cultivars to Macrophomina phaseolina was studied in small plot field experiment between 1989 and 1993. The number of plants coming up from inoculated seeds was recorded after emergence then compared to the control.There was a significant difference in resistance between the hybrids and cultivars examined. Among the three plant species examined soybean proved the most susceptible. In the case of maize Kiskun SC 297, Tisia SC and Pioneer 3764 A TC were the best hybrids in 1991, and Rosa MSC, Bekenova DC and Tau in 1992 in respect of resistance. Among the sunflower hybrids NS-H-43, NS-H-6 and NS-H-3 proved the most resistant in 1990, and NS-H-26 RM, Dra and Albena in 1991. Out of the inoculated series of the soybean cultivars Nova, Mira and Imola emerged in the highest plant number.
90003137|Our research investigates the effects of climate change on the soil forming minerals and vegetation of a meadow solonetz. On the study site, located at the Szabadkgys Steppe, the analyses of the mineral composition, salt, Na and humus content of soil samples, and the botanical mapping of the entire territory were performed in 1979 and 2005. Results indicate that due to climate change the ground water table has descended significantly, and the past 25 years has brought considerable changes on the site. Alteration of hydrological conditions generated changes in the mineral composition and chemical parameters of the soil, simultaneously with which the vegetation of the area transformed too. It has been proved that botanical structure is in a strong correlation with soil composition.
90003346|The distribution of Fe, Cu, Mg, Mn and Zn was measured in healthy and infected by Crown-gall tumour (
23792335|The effect of low molecular weight (LMW) glutenin subunits (GS) in presence of high molecular weight (HMW)-GS has over SDS sedimentation volume (SDSS) and kernel elasticity is presented. Twenty-six wheat lines having differnet origins and classified by SDS-PAGE into 14 different LMW-GS genotypic allelic groups were analyzed. When good HMW-GS background, i.e. Glu-1 1, 2*, 7 + 9 or 17 + 18 and 5 + 10 was associated with a number of allelic variants of Glu-3 loci (LMW-GS), i.e. Glu-A3 c and b; Glu-B3 g, h, d, higher kernel modulus of elasticity and SDSS were generally present. However, when poor HMW-GS background was present, i.e. Glu-1 null, 7 + 8, 2 + 12, a poor to medium modulus of elasticity and SDSS were generally found. Glu-B3 j allelic group, which possesses the wheatrye translocation showed a tendency to have low elastic modulus, high plastic work (WP) and low SDSS. The effects of good LMW-GS are enhanced by a good HMW-GS background, yielding higher kernel elasticity and SDSS.
23780365|Dvorak and Knott developed lines of wheat in which each chromoxome pair of Agropyron elongatum (2n = 14) was added separately to Triticum aestivum 'Chinese Spring'. These lines were screened for resistance to infection by Septoria tritici. Lines with A. elongatum chromosomes I and VII were resistant with resistance in the chromosome VII line appearing the most stable. Reactions of all other lines were indistinguishable from the susceptible reaction of Chinese Spring.
23786270|The complete sets of D-genome substitutions in the 'Langdon' durum wheat and their parents were studied in two pot experiments under high and low soil nitrogen to identify effects of D-genome chromosomes of the 'Chinese Spring' wheat on the efficiency of water use (WUE) and tolerance (T) of the durum wheat to reduced N supply. Results indicated that factors located on all D-chromosomes might enhance the low N tolerance of the vegetative plant organs with the most consistent effects of chromosomes 7D, 2D and 5D. However, only genetic factors located on chromosomes 7D, 4D and 2D appeared to have positive effects on the economic T, evaluated on the grain weight basis. Almost all the substituted D-chromosomes caused a more efficient water use only in the vegetative plant tissues. Chromosomes 2D, 3D, 5D and 7D might carry genes with the strongest positive effects on the vegetative WUE measure. Except of 1D, chromosomes of the D-genome did not improve the economic WUE of the reproductive plant parts. Genotypically specific, stress-induced relative changes in the harvest index and economic WUE exhibited the most close correlations with the tolerance to N-shortage suggesting an importance of differences in the partitioning of dry matter between straw and grains.
90003508|The paper discusses the effects of N supplies, variety, plant density and year on the yield of energy hemp in 2006 (favourable weather) and 2007 (dry year), based on the results of a long-term mineral fertilisation experiment and a variety  plant density experiment. The year was found to have the most pronounced effect (6876 %), followed by the N effect in the case of good water supplies (2837 %), the variety effect in the dry year (2636 %). The effect of the higher plant density was manifested under better rainfall conditions, leading to yield surpluses of 1423%, depending on the variety, while in the drier year the lower plant density resulted in higher yields.
23792341|The objectives of the study have been to determine the effects of winter precipitation, NO 3 -N distribution in the soil profile and their interaction on corn yield in different fertilization systems. Corn yield varied across fertilization systems and winter rainfall in the investigated years (20012004). Significantly higher yields were found in variants with manure application in diculture (DC-M-NPK  12.11 t ha 1 ) and in monoculture (MC-M-NPK  9.25 t ha 1 ). Path coefficients showed that the highest direct positive effects on corn yields were exhibited by NO 3 -N amounts at soil depths 3060 cm and 6090 cm (p = 0.4336** and p = 0.2346**, respectively). Winter precipitation had a direct negative effect on the yield performance (p = 0.1159), however, the downward movement of NO 3 -N from topsoil (030 cm) to deeper soil layers (3060 and 6090 cm), whose N levels were directly positively correlated with yield, made the indirect effect of winter precipitation on yield positive.
90002826|Using cost effective, environmentally friendly phytoremediation technology, heavy metal contents may be able to be reduced from polluted matrixes. Concerning any phytoremediation technologies, the ecotoxicological and phytotoxicological effects of a polluted material is one of the main point, which should be evaluated in order to get precise basis for choosing the best phytoremediation technology. In this study widely accepted phytotoxicological methods such as seed germination, root growth inhibition were carried out. In many cases the polluted site is not appropriate for revegetation of its own properties because of toxic content of heavy metals, pH, and lack of nutrients. Therefore in this study, the effect of mine tailing was assessed by using composted sewage sludge in different ratios, which can buffer the toxic effects of metals to some extent. Often applied indicator plant species, such as cabbage (
90002895|Legumes, especially pea, could play an important role in the enhancement of available nutrients of soil and in the organic cropping system. In the long-term experiment was studied the effect of major production factors (fertilization, irrigation, cultivation, sowing time, pea varieties) on the yield of pea and their relationship with quality of soil.
23786971|The translocation of rye (Secale cereale L.) chromatin 1RS to wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genome has been observed to be beneficial to grain yield, but also has a negative impact on baking quality. In order to gain understanding of the influence of T1DL.1RS genotype on agronomic performance and end-use quality, F2: derived F6 recombinant inbred lines from two crosses: Kanto107/Gabo(1DL.1RS) and Gabo(1DL.1RS)/Jaypee were tested. Grain yield and test weight of T1DL.1RS from Kanto107/Gabo(1DL.1RS) were significantly lower than non-1RS siblings, but no significant differences were observed between T1DL.1RS and non1RS from Gabo(1DL.1RS)/Jaypee. The effects of T1DL.1RS for quality traits were undesirable for cookie quality. The relatively smaller variation of quality traits among T1DL.1RS lines revealed the large effects of 1RS for quality traits. The range of baking traits for T1DL.1RS indicated that some of the lines had values near the mean of non-1RS lines in the Kanto107/Gabo(1DL.1RS) background. The effects of T1DL.1RS on agronomic performance were modified by wheat genetic background, while milling and baking qualities were less affected.
90003020|Numerous methodologies are used in the EU Member States to assess the risk for different soil threats related to various agricultural practices (erosion, salinisation, organic matter decline, compaction and landslides). Our aim was to evaluate the risk assessment methodologies (RAMs) utilized for salinization in the Member States based on questionnaires sent to experts and policy makers. A first analysis of the obtained information reveals that most countries affected by the problem do not have official methodology and some countries do not have any methodology at all. Hungary has an officially recognized assessment. Slovakia and Spain has a RAM used by scientists. Greece and Cyprus provided information about RAM that they would prefer. Salt-affected soils occur in Bulgaria, France, Italy and Romania also, but we didnt get answer from these countries. To fill the information gaps we need a further analysis on scientific papers.
23785361|Aflatoxins are toxic metabolites produced by strains of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. They occur worldwide and contaminate certain foods and feedstuffs, especially wheat, corn, soya and groundnut products. Although the climate in Hungary is not favourable for production of these moulds, by consumption of imported foods these mycotoxins can cause serious health problems. As aflatoxin B1 is highly carcinogenic, its accepted level is regulated in many countries, the official limit in Hungary is 5 ng/g. Five years ago our institute started a research program for developing ELISA tests to detect mycotoxins in food and feeds, resulted in reagent-kits for T-2, zearalenone and ochratoxin-A. This program continued by development of sensitive, monoclonal antibody-based direct, competitive ELISA test and reagent kit for quantitative measurement of aflatoxin B1 with detection limit of 1.5 ng/g in cereals. The mean within-assay and interassay coefficients of variation of the standard curves were less than 10 %. With acetonitrile based extraction solvent the mean recovery values from cereals contaminated artificially with this mycotoxin was about 80 %. This test was offered for screening of samples in control laboratories.
23790018|Genetic improvement in aluminium tolerance is one of the most cost-effective solutions to improve the productivity of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) in acid soils. Sources of tolerance to this abiotic stress within adapted germplasm are limited, so the identification and characterisation of new sources are of some priority for the future of plant breeding in target areas. The aim of this study was to evaluate the response to aluminium stress of an old Portuguese wheat collection and to select the most tolerant ones for genetic and breeding purposes. An old collection of Portuguese wheat cultivars and some 'Barbela' lines were tested and classified in relation to aluminium tolerance and compared to modern wheat cultivars using a hydroponic approach. Three bread wheat cultivars ('Viloso Mole', Magueija' and 'Ruivo') showed greater tolerance to 5 ppm aluminium than the international wheat standard cultivar 'BH1146', and so represent excellent material for understanding the genetic control of aluminium tolerance. In addition, several accessions of the Portuguese landrace 'Barbela' were outstanding in terms of aluminium tolerance. In particular, line 7/72/92 had a pronounced advantage over 'BH1146' in terms of root regrowth.
23786928|The adoption of the wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) production on raised beds in NW Mexico has created a need to re-examine the traditional production technology, especially the population density (PD) and the distance between beds (DBB). The objective of this study was to determine the effect of these factors and their interaction on grain yield and other yield components of wheat in northwestern Mexico. An experiment was carried out during fall winter 1991-1992 at the Yaqui Valley Agricultural Experiment Station, which consisted of a complete factorial of three DBB; 0.80, 0.90, and 1.00 m, by 6 PD; 50, 100, 150, 200, 250, and 800 thousand plants per hectare (TPPH), in a randomized complete block design with four replications. Results indicated that yields were not modified when the DBB was changed. The response to PD was significant at the studied levels. The most important yield compensating factor for different PD was the number of tillers per plant (TPP), while the variations upon changing the DBB were explained apparently by increased number of spikes per square meter (SPSM). The optimum PD was around 150 TPPH, which is equivalent to the sowing of 6-8 kg of seed per hectare.
23790027|Two durum wheat varieties, Saturn-1 and Neptun-2, were used in the production of Triticum durum  Triticum monococcum ssp. aegilopoides amphiploid (AABBA m A m ), thus generating two amphiploid lines, designated A1 and A2, respectively. Anther culture response was studied involving callus induction, plant regeneration, albino- and green plants produced. The wild wheat parent did not respond to any of the parameters studied while the tetraploid wheats yielded only albino plants. Amphiploid lines differed in between for plant regeneration ability and produced albino and green plants, ranging from 1.93.2 and 0.40.8 per 100 plated anthers, respectively. Thus, the lines reacted equally in androgenesis for green plant yields and might be of use in the haploid wheat production.
90002865|These investigations aimed to determine bioactivity of cineole essential oil against rice weevil (
90003144|As the soil  besides the climate and weather  is one of the main factors of plant production, which basically determines the quality and economical conditions of production, that is why the knowledge of the effects of plant production on soil is very important. The main goal of the soil cultivation experiment set in 1997 was to determine the application possibilities and the efficiency of the applied reduced tillage system that can stop the physical degradation of the soil. We established that the machinery and tools of the soil protective production technology (soil cultivation tools and sawing machines) are well applicable within the frequently extreme climatic conditions characteristic for the investigated area. The quality of the tillage operations is higher comparing to the conventional operations. We figured out that by the application of the new method 50 percent decrease of fuel consumption and 50-60 percent decrease of labour and operation hours can be achieved, while weed control was found to be the critical point of the new soil protective system.
23779351|Correlations and path analysis was studied in 30 triticale varieties under two diverse environments. Analysis revealed that associations among characters and their contribution to yield gets modified under diverse environments. Early varieties appeared to be favoured under stress environment. Direct effect of number of seeds per spike was negative in stress environment, whereas it was positive in rich environment. In biological systems, characters themselves are not independent entities existing in isolation. Phenotype of the plant is the end result of interaction of a large number of factors both genetic and environmental. Phenomenon of linkage brings out association among various characters. However, environmental factors further modify such interrelationships. An attempt has therefore been made to study the extent of modification in character association under two extreme environments in triticale. Such information is necessary for breeding for adaptability. It is particularly important in triticales since adapted types of this crop are extremely limited.
23789320|Flight activity and species composition of alata aphids was monitored by yellow water pan traps for 20 years (1982-2001). Yellow water pan traps were placed into wheat fields; the species composition of wheat colonizing aphids was also studied in Mosonmagyarvr. The results of the study are relevant to the region of Kisalfld. Yellow water pan traps collected 30 aphid species. The proportions of the cereal aphids in the yellow pan traps varied between years. Their proportions were the followings: Diuraphis noxia Kurdj.: 0.0-2.3 %, Metopolophium dirhodum Walk.: 0.9-35.4 %, Rhopalosiphum padi L. 2.4-48.9 %, Shizaphis graminum Rond.: 0.2-11.9 %, Sitobion avenae Fabr.: 0.5-32.4 %. The proportions of cereal aphids feeding on winter wheat varied between 0.0-3.0, 1.0-85.0, 1.0-89.0, 0.0-5.0, 1.0-97.0 %, respectively, during the period of the study. R. padi proved to be the most dominant species during the study (57%), followed by S. avenae (24%), M. dirhodum (17%) S. graminum and D. noxia (1-1%). Linear regression analyses revealed a significant relationship between the relative number of species caught and those living on the plants (R2=0.825) providing a reliable forecast. There was a strong relationship between the effective heat sum, calculated from the temperature between 1st April and 31st July, and the number of aphids caught by yellow pan traps and the number of aphids feeding on plants, R2=0.932 and R2=0.9612, respectively.
90002924|Values of Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) were calculated for East Slovakian Lowland for the period of 45 years (1961-2007). Dry and wet periods were determined and analysed according to the PDSI. To compare obtained results with other way of drought identification, courses of selected meteorological drought indexes were computed. Results have shown that the most similar results to PDSI gave those indexes, which take into account the values of evapotranspiration.
90002784|A Hungarian CERES based model (4M) was used for modelling the seasonal changes of the available nutrients in the soil, and the dynamics of the whole nutrient balance. Changes of soil moisture content of the profile has also been measured and simulated. These data are key for any modeller to test the capability of a given crop model. 4M performed well in estimation of water and nitrogen dynamics. Phosphorus and potassium dynamics are more complicated in nature. Availability for plant uptake is a difficult question to follow and even so to measure. The results certainly give a step forward in modelling of P- and K-cycles.
90002691|The aim of our study is sward renovation with different methods. Pasture of a low productivity was under-seeded with three plant species (
90003180|Fusarium head blight (FHB) caused mainly by
23790015|A new unstable organ-specific Adh1 mutant was isolated from autotetraploid S 25 Wf9 maize line after germinating kernels under water for two days. Adh1-Fm4x-1 expresses normal and/or reduced levels of ADH1 in anaerobic scutellum. No activity or approximately 3375% of wild type level of ADH1 in pollen grains was observed. The organ-specific phenotype of the Adh1-Fm4x-1 could be maintained by selfing for ten subsequent generations. After crossing with the wild-type allele the Adh1 mutation transmitted to the next generation both by female and male gametophytes. The appearance of one- and two-banded patterns in anaerobic scutellum and pollen grains of heterozygous F 1 plants showed the lack of FF homodimers. DNA sequence analyses of the wild type allele, the Adh1-Fm4x-1 mutant allele and four F 1 revertants revealed that the Adh1-Fm4x-1 mutation contains a Dissociation (Ds1) transposable element in the 5' untranslated leader of the maize Adh1 gene, which regulates organ-specific expression at a quantitative level.
90003063|During 2000  2007 years on heavy soils of the East-Slovakian Lowland effect of soil tillage on hydrophysical soil properties and soil water supply were observed. Research was realized in experimental locality in Milhostov. Experimenal locality is situated in central part of the East-Slovakian Lowland and has continental climate. Two methods of soil tillage (conventional tillage and no-tillage) were examined. From hydrophysical and physical soil properties were determined as follows: bulk density (
23782875|Protective activities of new, original antidotes highly effective in combinations with the thiocarbamate herbicide EPTC were evaluated against the phytotoxicity of the chloroacetanilide herbicide alachlor to corn. The sequence of activity of the antidotes studied is MG-191 > MG-235 > AD-67.
90002991|Our research aims at the complex geochemical study of the solid phase of salt-affected profiles, originating from natural lakes and lakes under anthropogenic use. This paper presents the results of pH and clay mineral XRD analyses performed on sediment profiles taken from four sites, two of which operate as a hatchery. It has been proved that pH in saline areas is primarily determined by post-sedimentation processes, such as the water household, the salt content and the mineral composition of sediment.
23784235|The potential of the delayed chlorophyll fluorescence technique in predicting genotypic frost resistance of winter wheat was assessed by registration the temperature dependence of delayed fluorescence (DF). DF intensity at the temperature 2-3C lower then the temperature of the DF low-temperature maximum in frost resistant variety had a high correlation coefficient with plant survival after controlled freezing. The method was rapid and could be used as a tool for preliminary frost resistance estimation of winter cereals.
90002724|Application of undegradable polyethylene (PE) mulches ensures higher yield and earlier harvest in conventional production of lettuce and some kinds of vegetables. Use of polymer materials, however, increases inputs into production and poses a serious environmental pollution problem. Different organic surpluses  residues from the processing industry and agricultural production are singled out as alternative, promising mulching materials for vegetable crops. The research goal was to determine the effect of degradable organic mulches on agronomic traits of iceberg lettuce. Field trials with organic mulches (hay, straw, chopped up maize cobs and stalks), white/black PE-mulch, paper and uncovered soil were conducted in the continental climate zone of Croatia, in the spring-summer and summer-autumn growing periods of 2006. Daily fluctuations of air (5 cm above ground) and soil (10 cm depth) temperatures were monitored in each treatment throughout the lettuce growing period. Yield components were analyzed at harvest that is head biomass, number, mass, diameter and height of marketable heads, and were used to calculate marketable yield. The studied parameters of lettuce grown on PE-film and paper were in the rank of statistically highest values in both growing periods. Hence, a possible alternative to PE-film is paper mulch, while chopped up stalks and straw are promising organic mulches.
23783979|BC3 - BC5 plants of H.vulgare L. (2n=14) x T.aestivum L. (2n=42) hybryds and BC1 - BC4 plants of H.geniculatum All. (=H.marinum subsp. gussoneanum) (2n=28) x T.aestivum (2n=42) hybrids were studied. It was revealed that cytoplasmic and nuclear genomes of H.vulgare and H.geniculatum exerted different influence on cytogenetic characteristics of BC plants. Cytoplasmic and nuclear genomes of H.geniculatum had more positive effect on self-fertility and viability of additional and alloplasmic lines of T.aestivum in comparison with genomes of H.vulgare. It is necessary to study new obtained hybrid genotypes using biochemical tests to indentify substitutional lines.
90002830|On the leaves of two modern varieties (Jersey and Malz) and one old variety (Valtick) of spring barley (
90002840|Buckwheat
23786040|Maize seeds (Zea mays, L.) hybrid DK 636 (FAO 530) were inoculated either with live (L) or control (autoclaved) Azospirillum brasilense BR 11005 cells during imbibition. Seeds were then dried up to 14% humidity, and stored at 15 - 20C in the dark. After 0, 5, 15, and 25 days of storage, seeds were germinated in the dark in a humid chamber at 20C, and seedlings were grown for 5 days. Afterwards, length, fresh weight (FW), dry weight (DW), and water content (WC) were determined in coleoptiles, while roots were used to determine Azospirillum most probable number (MPN), DW and root surface. The growth-promoting effect of Azospirillum on root DW and radical surface was significantly evident in all periods of seed storage. However, the effects on coleoptile length, DW and WC were significant only after 15 days of storage. On the other hand, Azospirillum MPN in roots of seedlings from L seeds was 108 cells g1 at 0 and after 5 days of seed storage, while decreasing to 107 and 105 at 15 and 25 days, respectively. These results indicate an optimal bacterial concentration of 108 - 107 cells g1 of roots, for a general growth promotion effect on maize seedlings, and 105 to have an effect in roots only. The inoculation system adopted here was able to maintain this last MPN even after drying and storing seeds for up to 25 days.
23782999|Root respiration in winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em Thell) is not well described. Three instruments, a carbon dioxide specific electrode, infrared gas analyzer, and galvanic electrode were evaluated for estimation of root respiration rates of five hydroponically grown wheat cultivars. Four plantings were made for study of each instrument with three observations made on each planting. Respiration rates were found to decrease with increasing plant age. In the infrared gas analysis study and the galvanic electrode experiments cultivar differences in root respiration were observed. The infrared gas analyzer appeared most effective of the three systems studied as it is a more direct method of obtaining root respiration data.
23784030|Amino acid based medium AA was tested for culture of immature embryos of eight triticale genotypes of different genomic composition. Four media were compared for promotion of somatic embryogenesis. AA medium promoted formation of embryogenic callus and somatic embryoids with all genotypes and was overall significantly better than the other media. Significant differences between genotypes in embryogenic capacity and significant medium  genotype interactions were found.
23781335|Sr14 was located in chromosome 1B. In small populations derived from monotelodisomic 1BL heterozygotes, Sr14 failed to show recombination with the centromere. A 1BL monotelosomic isolated from a monosomic 1B plant carrying Sr14 was shown to carry Sr14. Together these results indicate that Sr14 is situated near the centromere in chromosome 1BL. Sr14 was inherited independently of Bg for brown glume colour located in chromosome 1BS.
23786967|Emmer is the tetraploid wheat (genome constitution: AABB) from which hexaploid or common wheat (Triticum aestivum L., genome:AABBDD) was derived. We examined transferability of 180 microsatellite markers from hexaploid wheat to wild emmer wheat [T. turgidum ssp. dicoccoides (Krn. Ex Asch. & Graebner) Thell.] and cultivated emmer wheat [T. turgidum ssp. dicoccum (Schrank ex Shbler) Thell.]. Among the 180 primer pairs, 121 (67.2%) amplified microsatellite loci from the ssp. dicoccoides genome and 122 (67.8%) from the ssp. dicoccum genome. Between these two subspecies, polymorphic banding patterns were observed at 97 (53.5%) microsatellite loci. Five primer pairs (2.8%) produced amplification products only from the ssp. dicoccoides genome while 7 other primer pairs (3.9%) produced products only from the ssp. dicoccum genome. Fifty microsatellite markers (27.8%) failed to amplify any products in these two subspecies of T. turgidum. The microsatellite markers we identified to show cross-species transferability should be useful in studies of gene mapping and genome evolution in tetraploid wheat.
90002822|This paper presents some detailed results on spring growth of perennial ryegrass (PRG) based on field investigations between 2004-2007. Extended shoot height, number of leaves and number of dead leaves per shoot were increasing during primary growth. Number of active leaves and sum of active leaf lamina length were first increasing than decreasing. Index of leafiness was decreasing through the investigation periods. The weather conditions were different in experimental years. The spring growth of PRG primarily showed positive response to annual precipitation.
23787082|Water stress in maize (Zea mays, L) after planting slows down germination and initial seedling growth. This study determined that seed inoculation with Azospirillum brasilense BR11005 could mitigate negative water stress effects in seedlings. Pots containing a mixture of sand and vermiculite were divided in three lots and irrigated with a nutrient solution, to 200 g moist kg1 bed dry weight (HM), 100 g kg1 bed dry weight (MM), or to 50 g kg1 bed dry weight (LM), respectively. The first lot corresponded to well irrigated pots and the other two, to 50% and 75% water supply reduction, respectively. Hybrid DK 636 maize seeds were treated during imbibition with either 107 live or autoclaved (control) A. brasilense cells seed1, pre-germinated in a humid chamber, and planted in the pots. All seedlings were then grown in a greenhouse at their corresponding water regimes, for up to 15 d after planting. Total aerial biomass (TAB) and foliar area (FA) was determined in shoots. Relative water content (RWC), water content (WC), and water potential () were determined in leaves. Free proline concentration was determined in both leaves and roots. In addition, surface and dry weight (DW) were determined in roots. Seed inoculation with Azospirillum improved both leaf RWC and WC, prevented a significant  drop in leaves, increased root growth, TAB and FA, and promoted proline accumulation in both leaves and roots, in seedlings grown for 15 d at 75% water supply reduction.
23792366|Two intervarietal substitution lines of common wheat cv. Sava bearing chromosome 5B from Saratovskaya 29 and Diamant 2 donors and two near-isogenic lines (NILs) of winter cv. Bezostaya 1 with the Vrn-B1 locus from the same donors were developed. Multiple allelism of the dominant Vrn-B1 locus was studied in these lines. It manifested itself as earing time variation in plants grown near Novosibirsk (West Siberia), Almaty (Kazakhstan), and in a greenhouse. One dominant allele, Vrn-B1 S , having a stronger effect on earing time, was detected in Saratovskaya 29 and another, Vrn-B1 Dm , in Diamant 2. The NILs and substitution lines are late-ripening. Lines with Vrn-B1 S come to earing earlier than with Vrn-B1 Dm .
23784187|A backcross-1 derivative was obtained from the hybrid Triticum aestivum cv. Chinese Spring  Psathyrostachys juncea by pollinating with the amphiploid Triticum aestivum  Triticum tauschii. The backcross plants had the expected chromosome number of 2n=49 which gave an average metaphase configuration of 21.512 univalents plus 9.26 rod bivalents and 4.34 ring bivalents. Chromosome behaviour abnormalities such as laggards, bridges and multipolar anaphases were observed at late meiotic stages. The backcross plant was more vigorous in growth than the F1 hybrids with a considerable reduction in amount of leaf chlorosis.
90003207|Wangshuibai is an indigenous scab resistance germplasm originated from Jiangsu, China. To characterize the genetic basis of scab resistance in this germplasm, QTLs for type I and type II resistances were detected using a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population created by single seed descent from Nanda2419  Wangshuibai and a molecular marker map of more than 4000 cM constructed using RAPD, SSR and STS markers. The major QTLs for type I resistance in Wangshuibai were mapped to chromosomes 4BL and 5AS, and those for type II resistance were mapped to chromosomes 3BS. In addition, a QTL on chromosome 2B showed association with both types of resistance. These QTLs were verified with QTL near-isogenic lines. We found, by mapping QTLs for agronomical traits in the same population, that on chromosomes 4BL and 5AS the scab resistance QTLs co-located with QTLs for plant height, thousand grain weight or flag leaf width. However, these associations could be break down by recombinant selection. We concluded that Wangshuibai is a valuable scab resistance gene resources and marker assisted selection would be of great help for its better utilization.
90002844|Weediness cause serious problem in winter wheat breeding. For the precision and sustainable farming we should know in advance the level of weediness in each year. As the interaction between weed and soil or climate or any other element of its environment and crop year is a usual plant-soil or plant-environment relationship. We studied if we could estimate weediness from simple climatic data on a given experimental field.
90002769|Speeding industrial development causes hurried life style as well as unstoppable energy consumption increase. During last years of 20th century in all developed countries raised awareness of limited amounts of major energy sources (fossil fuels), and attention is now directed to finding other energy sources. European Union emphasises production of alternative energy sources, like: methane, biogas, bio-diesel, bioethanol, liquid biomass, liquid gas and hydrogen. By utilizing organic waste from agricultural production for energy production, it is possible to gain profit and preserve environment. Sugar beet leaves and heads stay on plough-land during sugar beet root extraction and present great biomass potential that can be used for biogas production.
23790299|Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is one of the most economically important crops around the world. Diseases caused by fungi and viruses significantly reduce yield. The most important fungal diseases are leaf rust caused by Puccinia hordei, and powdery mildew caused by Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. The most economical and ecologically friendly way to avoid losses caused by these diseases is growing resistant varieties. Concerning practical breeding for powdery mildew and leaf rust resistance, simple, cheap and robust selection methods are required. Marker assisted selection (MAS) is of great potential to fulfil this demand. In this paper, we present development of a robust duplex marker for simultaneous selection of Rph7, and presence of one of the following Mla alleles: Mla16, Mla19, Mla20, Mla21, Mla27 or Mla28.
90002908|Our examinations were carried out in summer of 2007, when we marked out three sampling sites in Stream Balta and two sampling sites in Stream Kata-rti as a control area. The first sampling site in Stream Balta is an area, which was not influenced by mining activities. The second sampling site was marked out on a recultivated area, while the third site had been formerly recultivated but later it went through intensive erosion. The aim of our examinations was to determine the impacts of the deposited mine tailing pile and to prove the effects of recultivation on living communities of Stream Balta. Our researches consisted of fieldwork and laboratory analyses. Besides retaining samples of biotechton from the subaquatic stems of vegetation, analysis of zootechton community was carried out as well. Additionally, we determine the concentrations of certain elements in periphyton samples.
23788068|Soil gravel content affects many soil physical properties, i.e. bulk density, porosity, water infiltration and storage, as well as crop yield. Little is known regarding the influence of soil gravel content on grain yield of durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.). In this paper the accumulation of dry matter during the vegetative and reproductive periods and the contribution of pre-anthesis assimilates to grain yield have been evaluated in two durum wheat varieties grown on soils with 0, 10, 20, and 30% gravel content. The two varieties showed similar behaviour and more soil gravel decreased plant biomass both at anthesis and at maturity. Soil gravel content greatly reduced grain yield and dry weight of all plant parts both at anthesis and maturity. Post-anthesis dry matter accumulation was 16% lower in plants grown on 30% gravel soil and dry matter remobilization was 53% lower, compared to plants grown in gravel-free soil. The differences in growth rate were attributed to the restriction of the volume of soil available for root growth.
90003225|Deoxynivalenol (DON) and zearalenone (ZON) are mycotoxins frequently detected in
90003441|Research of spatial variability of soil properties was realized in years 2006  2008. Eight soil profiles were observed. Soil samples were taken from depths 0.0  0.3 m and 0.3  0.6 m in spring time. Sampling sites were represented with arable land and perennial grass stands (pastures, meadows), wetty and dry soil. Important spatial variability of soil properties at no-regularly overflowing area was confirmed with large range of soil parameters. Specific gravity was in range 2485  2760 kg m
90003196|The aim of the investigation was to compare visual rating index (VRI) in the field and visually scabby kernels (VSK) in laboratory conditions for 23 winter wheat genotypes under conditions of artificial infection with
23789822|The set of 44 near-isogenic lines of spring wheat cv. Thatcher and wheat genotypes known to carry specific leaf rust resistance genes were included in the present study for the preliminary validation of twelve STS and SCAR markers linked to leaf rust resistance genes Lr9, Lr19, Lr20, Lr21, Lr24, Lr25, Lr26, Lr28, Lr29, Lr37. Seven Lr genes were specifically tagged by STS and SCAR markers. The presence of genes Lr9, Lr19, Lr20, Lr24, Lr28, Lr29, Lr37 in the tested plant materials was confirmed by a unique amplification of markers SCS5550, SCS265512 and SCS253736, STS638, SCS73719, SCS421570, IPY10 and Lr29F24/R24, cslVrgal3, PS10R/L, respectively. Evaluation of the repeatability and the reliability of selected markers (pTAG621 for Lr1, STS683 for Lr20, D14L for Lr21, Lr25F20/R19 for Lr25, Lr29F24/R24, IPY10 for Lr29, cslVrgal3 for Lr37 and PS10R/L for Lr47) across four European laboratories and PCR conditions demonstrated the usability of STS638, Lr29F24/R24, IPY10, cslVrgal3 and PS10R/L markers in marker-assisted selection. STS markers pTAG621 for gene Lr1, D14L for gene Lr21, Lr25F20/R19 for gene Lr25 were found to be unsuitable for effective screening of large segregating populations in breeding programs.
23781531|Line  tester analysis was carried out using 16 lines and 3 testers for three traits viz. grain size, volume weight and hulling percent in rice. Additive gene effects, partial dominance, high heritability and high genetic advance were noticed for grain size. Simple breeding procedures like selection based on progeny testing is suggested for the improvement of this trait, whereas for other two traits non-additive gene effects low heritability and low genetic advance were observed. Partial dominance for volume weight and over dominance for hulling percent was also observed. For these traits biparental mating and recurrent selection may be useful. Parent Saket-3 and Sonafor grain size, Pusa 2-21 for volume weight and IR 24 and HG 4 for hulling percent may be considered as good general combiners. Similarly cross combinations FH 109  N 22, Jaya  T 3 and Sona  T 21 for grain size, Krishna  T 21, C 85-85  N 22 and HG 4  T 21 for volume weight and IET 2361  T 3, Sona  T 21, Jaya  N 22 were found the good specific combinations.
23786969|In a test of the efficiency of various methods of chromosome doubling among several genotypes of hexaploid triticale (xTriticosecale Wittmack), 506 green plants from seven hybrid triticales were obtained from 15104 cultured anthers with the efficiency ranging from 0.4 to 7.2 plants/100 anthers for different genotypes. Flow cytometry of the leaf nuclear DNA content showed that among those 506 green regenerants, 215 (42.5%) were haploid and 291 (57.5%) were diploid, presumably spontaneously doubled haploids. The haploids were treated with a colchicine solution in four different regimes and 128 doubled haploid lines were obtained, for 59.9% efficiency of chromosome doubling. The best doubling rate was observed when plants were treated with colchicine solution on the regeneration medium in the tubes and cooled for 10 days at 8C in 16/8 h light/dark. Assuming that all regenerated diploid plants were spontaneously doubled haploids, the overall efficiency of doubled haploid production was very high, ranging from 66.7 to 90.7% among the green regenerants from different genotypes.
23782736|Dry matter accumulation and dynamical characteristics of NPK uptake of winter wheat variety "Jubilejnaja 50" were studied in a fertilizing field experiment and was described using a biomathematical modell as well, then evaluated. Our conclusions can be summed up as follows: - dry matter accumulation continued untill full ripening without any reduction, in all treatments; - phosphorus and N uptake was similar to dry matter accumulation and differed only in its intensity; - the dynamics of K uptake significantly deviated from NP ones it had an considerable and typical reflux component evermore; - the model has indicated the characteristics of the plant linked to the individual phenophases, further on the characteristics features existing in the uptake of various elements; - during verification of the model significant and vary high correlations were recorded for all elements investigated.
90002849|In greenhouse experiments, we have monitored the photosynthesis and transpiration rates in 15 genotypes of maize. Juvenile maize plants were cultivated in two versions of the experiment  a control version and a stressed version. The control plants were irrigated with 70 % of the field water capacity. For the stressed version, irrigation was completely discontinued for fourteen days. The experiment was started when five genuine leaves were grown. The lowest level of photosynthesis rate was in the stressed plants of the genotype 810*13 (4.28 mol CO
90002923|Atmospheric precipitation represents the main water source for rivers in Slovakia. The water storage in the unsaturated zone is a resultant of the interaction processes between the unsaturated zone and the surrounding subsystems, while the intensity of these interactions depends on the hydrophysical properties of water. To assess the available water storage for the plant cover, we conventionally use the following characteristic points of the moisture retention curve (soil-water content), wilting point (WP) representing the value of pF = 4,18 (it is a soil moisture state where the plant cover is permanently insufficiently supplied with water and wilts), threshold point (TP) representing the value of pF = 3,3 (it is a soil moisture state where the physiological processes in the plant cover are limited by the lack of water), field water capacity (FWC) representing the value of pF = 2,0 to 2,7 (Field capacity is the quantity of water that a well-drained soil would hold against the gravitational forces) (tekauerov et al., 2006, tekauerov et al., 2003). The following submission presents the data concerning the dependability of water storage in root zone of a soil profile to the depth of 1m, in relation to hydrolimits.
23785406|The efficacy of naloxone and morphine on acute toxicity of T-2 toxin, a potent cytotoxic trichothecene mycotoxin, was investigated. In this study, mice received naloxone (4 or 8 mg/kg, sc) or morphine (5 or 15 mg/kg, sc) 24, 18, 1 hr before and 6 hr after ip injection of 2 or 1.8 mg/kg of T-2 toxin, respectively. In addition, naloxone (8 mg/kg, sc) were administered at 13, 7, 1 hr before, and 5 hr after T-2 toxin administration (1.8 mg/kg, ip). The acute lethal toxicity and change in body and organ weights (including liver, spleen, and kidneys) were evaluated. The acute lethal toxicity of T-2 toxin was reduced by administration of the first regimen of naloxone (8 mg/kg, sc). It also caused a protective effect against T-2 toxin-induced weight changes. On the other hand, morphine increased T-2 toxin-induced lethality (although not statistically significant). It could be concluded that opioid agonists may exacerbate the lethal toxicity of T-2 toxin-induced shock and opioid antagonists such as naloxone could antagonize this shock.
90003422|Nowadays high yield, good baking quality, suitability for intensive production and good adaptation ability to non optimal conditions are generally required for winter wheat varieties. The more than 130 registered varieties offer a wide range of opportunities to select the right genetic basis being the most suitable for the cropping location and agronomy. The expression of genetic potential both in yield and quality is highly influenced by ecological conditions, and under the Hungarian weather conditions, the low level of precipitation, and this way, the plant available soil moisture is a significant stress factor of production in almost half of the cropping years. Kosutny (1907) says that quality of wheat is determined first of all by precipitation and temperature and in the changeable weather conditions of nowadays more and more verify his findings.
23790044|Knowledge of the chromosomal distribution of long terminal repeats (LTR) is important for understanding plant chromosome structure, genomic organization and evolution, as well as providing chromosomal landmarks that are useful for chromosome engineering. The aim of this study is to investigate the genomic distribution of Sabrina-like LTR pDbH12, which was first isolated from Dasypyrum breviaristatum (V b genome), on Triticeae species in relation to the genomic evolution and chromosome identification. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis showed that pDbH12 is present on Dasypyrum (V genome) and Hordeum (H genome) species with the hybridized signals covering the entire chromosomes. However, clone pDbH12 did not hybridize to the genomes of Secale, Triticum, Lophopyrum, Pseduoroengeria, Aegilops, Agropyron desertorum and Elymus. Thinopyrum intermedium displayed fourteen chromosomes that hybridized with pDbH12. Sequential FISH identified these chromosomes as belonging to the J s genome. Results from sequence characterized amplified region (SCAR) marker and dot blot both support the FISH results, and the integrative results suggest that amplification of Sabrina-like LTR retrotransposons is an important factor which involved in the speciation process. Clone pDbH12 could serve as a cytogenetic marker for tracing chromatin from V or V b , H and J s genomes in wheat-alien introgression lines.
23787100|Qualitative and quantitative variation of high molecular weight (HMW) glutenin subunits is very important for wheat bread-making quality. The aim of this investigation was to estimate the relative amounts (%) of HMW glutenin subunits in OS winter wheat cultivars and their contribution to bread-making quality by SDS-PAGE and scanning densitometry. In this paper 10 winter wheat cultivars created at Agricultural Institute Osijek (OS) and cultivar Divana (Jot-Sjeme, Krievci), as Croatian standard improver, were investigated. The wheat quality evaluation was done by indirect parameters, rheological properties of dough and baking test. The quantitative analysis of HMW glutenin subunits have demonstrated that subunits encoded at Glu-D1 locus (Dx2, Dy10 and Dy12) were the dominant components. Subunit Ax1 and subunits encoded at Glu-B1 locus (Bx7, By8 and By9) were the minor ones. The proportion of subunit Dx5 depends on presence of subunit Ax1. When subunit Ax1 was present (1 7+9 5+10) the proportion of subunit Dx5 was approximately 50% reduced. The positive correlation between the relative amounts of the y-type HMW glutenin subunits and extensographic resistance and energy of dough, loaf volumes and appearance of bread (h/d) was found. That indicates that the y-type HMW glutenin subunits are more important for bread-making quality of investigated cultivars than the x-type. This investigation has indicated that the presence of HMW glutenin subunit 1 and both the presence and proportion of subunits 5+10 contributes to very good and good bread-making quality, while good bread-making quality of cultivars with subunits N 7+8(9) 2+12 is due to higher proportion of subunits at Glu-D1 locus.
23787216|The frost tolerance of nine T. durum (Desf.) genotypes of various origin was determined in the phytotron at 13.5C at different soil moisture contents. At the end of preliminary growth (stage 4 on Feekes scale) and during the first phase of hardening five different soil moisture content levels were established by adding various quantities of water. The majority of genotypes survived freezing best in very dry soil (water content was 28.3% of natural soil water capacity). Cultivars with poorer frost tolerance suffered the greatest mortality in wet (water content 67.3%) or very wet (water content 74.8%) soils. For all the genotypes a negative correlation was observed between the survival percentage and the soil water content. The frost tolerance of cultivars with good winter hardiness was not greatly influenced by the soil moisture content prior to freezing. For the other genotypes close correlations of various sizes were found between frost tolerance and soil water content. The scoring data of plants that survived freezing and exhibited regrowth also reflected the fact that freezing caused the least damage to the plants in the very dry treatment. In a similar experiment on bread wheat differences in soil moisture content during freezing had little influence on the test results of cultivars with excellent frost tolerance, while for those with moderate or poorer frost tolerance, the survival values of plants frozen at different soil moisture contents showed deviations of more than 50%. These results are confirmed by the present experiment with durum wheat. Soil moisture content influences the concentration of the cell solution in the plants, which in turn affects the survival of the plants due to ice formation at below-zero temperatures.
23782996|Of the 20 agronomic and yield-associated characters measured in ten barley introductions, all but one were significantly influenced by changes in controlled daylengths and temperatures, and all but two showed significant genotype  environment interactions with them. Long days and cool temperatures were the most beneficial for most growth and yield characters as found in earlier studies (Fejer and Fedak 1980). As can be expected, newer cultivars such as Loyola yielded much more than non-adapted introductions and old cultivars such as Manchuria, but the less adapted cultivar Nord and the older Trebi yielded more than Vanier, a recently bred cultivar. Nord combined high yield with high percent protein and the other Northern cultivar, Gateway, also excelled in the latter, providing good breeding material. A promising parent among the introductions was the Chinese large-seeded hulless selection, while Colsess showed promise for forage barley. Both two-rowed entries showed low yield.
23786046|The objectives of this study were to investigate the variability, gene effects and mode of inheritance of harvest index in the crosses of wheat genotypes carring different Rht genes. The parents used in the crosses were Siete Cerros (Rht-B1b), Aobakomughi (Rht-D1b), Tom Thumb (Rht-B1c), Ai-bian 1, (Rht-D1c) Sava (Rht 8) and Bankuty 1205 (rht). The data recorded for the F1 and F2 generations suggests that promissing crosses for selection of genotypes towards increased harvest index (HI) are Bankuty 1205/Aobakomughi, Bankuty 1205/Sava and Sava/Ai-bian 1. For the crosses Bankuty 1205/Aobakomughi and Bankuty 1205/Sava additive-dominat model was adequate for determination of gene efects. For both crosses higher effects of dominant genes compared to additive once have been recorded. In the crosses Siete Cerros/Ai-bian 1 and Sava/Ai-bian 1 HI was determined by additive as well as additive/ dominant [i] epistatic gene effect. For the crosses Bankuty 1205/Aobakomughi and Bankuty 1205/ Sava the mode of inheritance of HI was overdominance of the parent with higher mean value (Bankuty 1205) and for the cross Sava/Ai-bian, overdominance of the parent with lower mean value (Sava). In crosses Siete Cerros/Ai-bian 1 and Siete Cerros/Tom Thumb superdominance of parent with lower mean value of HI (negative heterozis) have been determined.
90003247|Toxicological profile and fertility of twenty four isolates of
90003154|We review and report the progress of germplasm enhancement for FHB resistance in Japan. Since 1970s, numerous wheat and barley germplasms have been screened for FHB resistance in intensive national breeding system. Resistance to FHB varies not only among wheat varieties but also their wild relatives, but no accession has been found to be completely immune. Spring wheat varieties from the Japanese and Chinese gene pools were screened and analyzed for their genetic diversity. It showed the uniqueness of the Japanese gene pool, and its distinction from the Chinese one. We traced the pedigrees of resistant wheat varieties to examine genetic diversity and potential in Japanese breeding programs. Shinchunaga, in addition to Saitama 29 and local varieties such as Nobeokabouzu-komugi and Nyubai, is considered to the main donors for moderate resistance to FHB in many Japanese commercial varieties. Another contributor Sumai 3 from China made gains of the resistance level for modern Japanese commercial varieties. These results showed the advancement in development of new varieties with pyramiding of genes to enrich FHB resistance and low level of mycotoxin contamination in the breeding programs.
23782728|The control of tolerance to low temperature, ice-encasement, and flooding in wheat was evaluated using the 5A, 5B, and 5D chromosome substitution lines of 'Cheyenne' into 'Chinese Spring'. The lines were acclimated and then: (a) frozen to temperatures between -6 and -16C, (b) encased in a block of ice at -1C for between 3 and 14 days, or (c) submerged under water at 2C for between 3 and 14 days. All three substitution lines were more cold hardy than "Chinese Spring". Genes for ice-encasement tolerance are localized in chromosomes 5A and 5D. Genes controlling tolerance to severe flooding stress are present in all three group 5 chromosomes. With a moderate flooding stress, only the alleles in chromosome 5D differed in 'Cheyenne' from 'Chinese Spring'.
23786279|The aim of this work was to define photosynthetic capacity of youngest wheat leaves, flag leaf and the leaf below it, during the period of anthesis and grain filling. Fourteen tetraploid and hexaploid wheat cultivars were used in order to study the effect of genotype on the photosynthetic O2 evolution, quantum yield and leaf area duration. Significant variations among the genotypes and between the examined leaves were most apparent towards the end of vegetation. Correlations between most of the examined photosynthetic parameters and yield were not significant. Post-anthesis duration of photosynthesis showed to be one of the grain yield determinants.
23779350|Triticale (X Triticosecale Wittmack), like other small grains has potential to be a forage and/or a grain crop in the future. But information on cultural practices and methods of fertilization for this crop is lacking. This experiment was conducted to study the effects of four plant densities ('Normal stand' vs 91, 61, and 31 plants/meter) and two methods (conventional vs foliar) of N-application on comparative performance of triticale, wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and rye (Secale cereale L). Results indicated that the tillers/plant, seeds/spike and 1000 kernel weight increased significantly as the plant density decreased and the conventionally fertilized plots produced more tillers and seeds/spike than foliar application of nitrogen in all three species. Kernel weight was increased due to conventional N-application than foliar but differences were not significant. Increase in plant density gave significantly higher grain yield and conventionally fertilized plots produced 20% more grain than that of foliar fertilization. Wheat yield (156 gm/plot) was highest followed by triticale (144 gm/plot) from 'Normal stand' and 5 cm plant to plant spacing, respectively.
90002675|In the course of the small plot trials which was appointed on the corn large field we searched for answer, what happened in the competitive ability of the corn, the dicotyledonous (
90003510|Growth chamber pot experiment was set up to study how biowaste compost can reduce the metal mobility in a contaminated soil. The contaminated fulvisol (Cd-10.7; Cu-332; Pb-792, Zn-1906 mg kg
90002921|In this paper the effects of 10 nutrient treatments on different yield components of winter wheat have been investigated. The research was established in 3 growing seasons (2003/2004, 2005/2006, 2006/2007), with 2 winter wheat cultivars (GK Kalsz, GK Petur), in 4 repeats, on 20 squaremeter random layout plots. We can diagnose that the PK and the NPK treatments significantly extended the number of shoots, the number of ears, the number of spikelets and the weight of grain per area unit, but we couldnt find a significant difference in each yield component in the effect of N treatments.
23781384|The nucleus of Aegilops speltoides was introduced into Triticum timopheevi cytoplasm by backcrossing. The alloplasmic lines obtained were completely fertile, with normal meiosis (2n=14=7"). This indicate that Ae. speltoides and T.timopheevi are isoplasmic.
23783738|A study was carried out to evaluate the effects of rye cultivars on the meiotic pairing control system in hexaploid wheat. F1 hybrids were produced between combinations of rye cultivars Petkus  Prolific and Prolific  Puma and used to pollinate the wheat cultivar Chinese Spring. A total of 89 plants from 28 families (each from a different F1 plant) from the Petkus  Prolific combination gave a range in chiasmata (Xta) frequency from 0.07 to 10.40 per P.M.C. The distribution of Xta frequencies was bimodal and discontinuous indicating the presence of major and minor genes affecting the meiotic pairing control system of wheat. In the second hybrid combination, Prolific  Puma the range in Xta frequencies that was observed varied from 0.07 to only 2.68; the distribution was continuous, implying polygenic control of an additive nature. To study the segregation of these factors, F2 rye plants from high and low-pairing-inducing F1 hybrids were used for pollination of Chinese Spring. The range of Xta frequency in resulting populations was only 0.00 - 6.07 per cell although the high and low parent effects were significantly different. Partial amphiploids with chromosome numbers of 35, 36, 38 and 41 were obtained in progenies of these crosses. A study of the meiotic behaviour of these aneuploids showed that the bivalent frequency was nearly equal to the number of chromosomes in excess of 28. They most likely arose from gametes carrying partially duplicated portions of the wheat genome. The short and long arm D genome detelos of Chinese Spring were crossed onto nine triticale cultivars to identify the D/R chromosome substitutions that had occurred. Meiotic analysis of the hybrids revealed that the cultivars Towan, Tyalla, Caborca 79 and Armadillo had 2D/2R substitutions. Welsh had a 6D/6R substitution; the substitution in Mapache was not identified, while Venus, Currency and Carman carried no detectable chromosome substitutions.
23782731|The genetic system controlling harvest index and its components i.e. biological yield, economic yield and straw yield in eight cultivars of wheat was studied using data of the F1 & F2 generations of a diallel cross. It is evident from the Wr Vr graphs and the analysis of the genetic components that additive and non-additive gene effects were the most genetic effects controlling such characters. Harvest index was the only trait showed marked heterosis. From the diallel graphs it was evident that heterosis was due to dominance effects. Heritability estimates indicated that effective selection could be practiced for harvest index in segregating populations from crosses includes Mexipak, Super X and Penjamo in it.
23790041|We report the application of wheat microsatellites (GWM) for the investigation of Aegilops species carrying C and U genomes. Overall, 89 microsatellite markers located in A, B and D genomes of bred wheat were used for the analysis of Ae. cylindrica Host. (CCDD) and Ae. triuncialis L. (UUCC). Ae. tauschii Coss. (DD) was included as a control of amplification of the D-genome markers. Twelve, eleven and seven of the A-genome-specific markers produced amplification fragments in Ae. cylindrica, Ae. triuncialis and Ae. tauschii, respectively. The level of amplification of the B-genome markers was similar in all investigated species and amounted to 6065%. The markers of the D genome showed a significantly higher polymorphism level among Ae. tauschii accessions than among those of Ae. cylindrica. Twenty-one microsatellite markers revealing polymorphism in Ae. cylindrica and Ae. triuncialis can be used as a markers for discrimination of C and U genomes. The results of microsatellite analysis were used to estimate genetic relationships among the Aegilops species. The dendrogram distinguished all Aegilops accessions and clustered them into three groups according to their species classification. There was no strong relation between the molecular data of the studied accessions and their geographical region of origin. Obtained data could be utilized for characterization and assessing genetic diversity of wild wheat relatives with C and U genomes.
23787173|Stripe rust (yellow rust) is one of the most devastating diseases of wheat worldwide. The most effective control method of stripe rust is the use of resistance genes. A very effective stripe rust resistance gene, Yr26, originating from Triticum turgidum L., was transferred into two common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars of Turkey through backcrossing using closely linked microsatellite markers. A 6vs/6al translocation line (92R149) was used as the source of Yr26 because this gene was originally thought to be located in the short arm of chromosome 6V. Wheat cultivars, Gerek-79 and Gn-91, were used as the recurrent parents in backcrossing. Resistant backcross lines were selected using closely linked chromosome 1B microsatellite markers (Xgwm11 and Xgwm18). Resistant backcross lines were also screened with a 6VS specific SCAR marker (SCAR1265), and results reconfirmed that Yr26 was not carried on 6VS. Highly resistant BC4F3 plants of Gerek-79 and Gn-91 were produced and the existence of Yr26 was confirmed with the linked Xgwm11 and Xgwm18 microsatellite markers.
90002928|Quantities of sulphur losses via lysimeters and sulphur wheat grain uptake were studied in a field experiment set up on Stagnosols near Popovaca, Central Croatia. Winter wheat was cultivated in 2005/2006. The highest grain uptake of 16.9 kg S ha
23780327|A range of diploid wheats was crossed to the hexaploid wheat Chinese Spring. Some hybrids of some combinations had sterile anthers. This pattern is compared with that of the semi-lethal effect found in crosses between diploid and tetraploid wheats. Meiotic pairing studies revealed slight differences in the level of chromosome pairing. There was no significant difference in the pairing level within accessions of any species, but there were differences between accessions. These differences, however, were not confined to any particular species. It is concluded that there may be genes in diploid wheat which affect homoeologous chromosome pairing in hybrids, but they are of low potency.
23781496|Seed of winter wheats, spring wheats and oats were stored at The Small Grain Centre in air-tight metal containers and in cloth bags in a cold room at 5 C from 1956 to 1981. Seed germination was excellent for 10 to 14 year old seed. Germination of spring wheats was consistently higher than winter wheats and oats. Germination in winter wheats was found to be more erratic than spring wheats. Germination of reserve or original seed, which was at least one year older and also treated with fungicides, was less than that of seed harvested at Bethlehem. The percentage germination is apparantly influenced by moisture at time of storage and type of container.
23782914|The chanN, P, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, B,ges of Ba,Be,Bi,Sn,Sr,Te,Ti,As,Hg,Se,V,Sb,Li,Mo,Ni, Cr,Co,Cd contents were studied in winter rye samples taken above the soil. The samples were collected every ten days under field conditions. The data suggest the following statements: The concentration of most elements decreased permanently or fluctuated during the vegetation perios -The highest concentrations - exept that of B - were measured at tillering -At full ripening in plant the N,P,Mg,Zn,Cu, Sn,As,Hg,Se contents in the grain and the K, Ca,Fe,Be,Bi,Cr,Sr,V contents in the straw were higher, due to the direct or indirect functions of the elements -After the milk ripening the N,P,Zn,Sn,As,V contents increased in rye, while in case of others the decrease was continous.
23786966|We have carried out QTL analyses for flowering date in a population of 89 F1 hybrids of M. sinensis from two years of field trial data. Five putative QTL were located using the Multiple QTL Model (MQM) approach and the program MapQTL 4.0, in a previous map of this species developed using the offspring cross mapping strategy. The QTL F12 was consistently detected over both years while the rest were detected in a single year. Fl1, Fl2 and Fl3 accounted for the 62.5% of the phenotypic variation in the first year while Fl2, Fl4 and Fl5 explained the 65% of this variation in 2001.
90003057|Plant species which grow at particular habitats may point out at specific abiotic characteristics of these habitats. There is a need for a more generic approach to link soil and vegetation responses. An alternative approach is to use Ellenberg indicator values as a means of assessing the likely competitive advantage between different species as projected by dynamic soil models. The way of utilization and maintenance, and different environmental influences change the specific soil conditions at their locations by human-induced and natural stresses. Different ecotypes of red clover registered at surveyed locations are adapting to such environmental changes, and may represent the breeding pool for red clover breeding to abiotic stresses.
90003285|The effect of harvest time on incidence of seedborne
23786280|Mature embryos of 17 cultivars of Triticum aestivum and 3 cultivars of Triticum durum were evaluated for their ability to produce embryogenic callus in tissue culture. Mature embryos were cultured on Murashige and Skoog's (1962) medium (MS) supplemented with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (0.5, 2.5 and 5.0 mg/l). MS medium supplemented with 2,4-D (2.5 mg/l) was used for callus maintenance. Plant regeneration was achieved on basal medium supplemented with 0.2 mg/l 1-naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) and 1.0 mg/l 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP) from callus subcultured once on maintenance medium. MS medium supplemented with 0.5 mg/l indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was used for profuse rooting. Percentage regeneration varied widely from cultivar to cultivar. Regenerated plantlets were successfully transferred into pots under field conditions where all the plants survived and set normal seeds.
23784260|Twelve R0 somaclones of HybriTech lines and three R1 somaclones of cv 'Len' of wheat derived from embryo callus were analyzed for seed and seedling characteristics, chromosomal aberrations, and fertility. Somaclones varied in seed number, seed weight, seed shrivelling, and incidence of yellow berry. Seed weight was higher in R1 somaclones but lower in R0 somaclones than 'controls'. Seedling vigor was lower in several but not in all somaclones. Ninety percent of the plants studied had normal pollen viability and seed set. Chromosome pairing was regular in all the plants analyzed. Ninety percent of the R1 plants and all of the R2 plants were free from chromosomal alterations.
90002918|In a pot experiment, we have studied the effect of an organic manure, Bactofil
23786090|A dominant gene Bph9 of rice (Oryza sativa L.) confers resistance against a serious insect pest, brown planthopper (BPH; Nilaparvata lugens Stl). To map the Bph9 locus, a susceptible japonica breeding line 'Norin-PL9' was crossed as a seed parent with an indica cultivar 'Pokkali', which is a Bph9-carrier. Due to high sterility in the F1 and F2 progenies, genotypes for BPH response of F2 individuals were estimated indirectly by the phenotypes of F3:4 families in BPH bioassay. Segregation of BPH resistance in 62 F2 individuals did not deviate from the single dominant gene ratio. Seven RFLP and two RAPD markers were selected in the bulked segregant analysis, all of which showed normal segregation in the mapping population. Bph9 was mapped on the long arm of rice chromosome 12.
23780416|Genetic and physiological aspects of sprouting resistance of wheat and of available breeding techniques were reviewed. The screening procedure at the Swiss Federal Research Station for Agronomy was described. This method is based in the Falling Number test and was applied to early generation and advanced breeding material. Selection in the F3-generation resulted in acceptable genetic gain in the F4. Comparison of the sprouting indices of winter wheat varieties (Probus and Zenith) and the spring wheats (Kolibri, Lita and Tano) clearly showed the superiority of Zenith. Differences among the other varieties were quite small. Significant effects were also found for years. The eco-analytical examinations showed large differences in the genotype  environment interactions. Zenith showed consistently good resistance. Phenotypic stability of sprouting resistance was lowest for Probus, indicated by the large ecovalue.
90002715|Research area is situated on the island of Pag (Adriatic sea). Calcareous and dolomite mould and rocky karst terrain are the most common soil types on the islands pastures. Large areas of pastures on these soil types are exposed to vegetation succession with species of genus
90003200|DNA markers near
23781494|A three year anther culture study consisting of 20 wheat, rye, triticale and over 7,534 anthers showed significant differences among cultivars for callus initiation frequency. Among species highest callus initiation frequency was observed for 6TA 131A triticale (34.6%) followed by PI 243741 rye (9.2%) and Atlas 66 wheat (6.5%). Different media and temperature pretreatment combinations were also utilized, however, despite excellent callus initiation frequency, only one triticale callus differentiated into a shoot. Level of success in plant regeneration from anther cultures as recently reported in literature for cereal cultivars does not necessarily apply to anther culture of many cereal genotypes as substantiated in this study.
90002855|Hairy vetch (
23784036|Experiments of drying at temperatures of 20, 40, 60, 80, 100C were carried out with two varieties (Mv-5, Jubilejnaja-50). According to the results of the experiments drying at high temperatures deteriorated the quality of both wheat varieties. There was no difference in reactions between the varieties. The heat damaged lots could not be organoleptically (by colour, smell) distinguished from the other samples. The amount of wet gluten removable by washing considerably decreased at 80C, while at 100C gluten could no longer be washed out. The 20-40-60C drying temperatures did not modify the farinographic value, 80C caused a substantial decrease of value, while wheats dried at 100C could not be evaluated by farinographic examination. Examinations by gel chromatography showed that the proteins -first of all those of high molecular weight- were damaged by a drying temperature of 80C.
23786169|One way to promote chromosome pairing between wheat and alien genomes is by using chromosome 5B deficient-genetic stocks (monosomic 5B) as female parents in hybridization. Such a stock is available in the cultivar Chinese Spring that has superior crossability but is a poor agronomic wheat. We have developed monosomic 5B stocks in three elite bread wheat cultivars (Ciano 79, Nacozari 75, Pavon 76) using Chinese Spring as the monosomic 5B donor source through a backcrossing protocol. The three new monosomic 5B stocks produced were validated by C-banding and by meiotic analyses of the 5B deficient F1 hybrids (2n=5x=34) of each cultivar with Aegilops variabilis.
23782929|Selection method for late winter frost resistance was elaborated for testing wheat genotypes in segregating generations. Selected plants do not lose their hardiness at the end of vernalization during the temporary rise in temperature frequent late winter, and remain resistant to the recurring frosts. The results of the repeated tests showed that frost resistant plants can be selected if at least two thirds of the progeny originating from the same F2 ear are frost resistant.
23787289|Genetic main effects and genotype x environment (GE) interaction effects for amino acids histidine (His) and arginine (Arg) in milled rice were analyzed by using the genetic models for quantitative traits of triploid endosperm. Nine cytoplasmic male sterile lines as females and five restoring lines as males were included in an incomplete diallel cross in two environments. Results indicated that the His content and Arg content were mainly controlled by genetic main effects, whereas the ratios of His content to protein content (RHP) or Arg content to protein content (RAP) were mainly affected by GE effects. Since genetic variances involved were found significantly for all traits, the genetic controlling of these two amino acids could be simultaneously affected by the endosperm, cytoplasm and maternal genetic effects. For genetic main effects, the cytoplasm and maternal additive effects for these two amino acids possessed high percentage of 60.2-70.9%, which indicated that selection for these amino acids based on maternal performance could be more effective than that based on single seed. The total narrow-sense heritabilities were high for Arg and RAP with 82.4% and 82.3%, and low for His and RHP with 46.4% and 18.2%, respectively. Since general heritabilities for these two amino acids were found to be much larger than GE interaction heritability, the selection advance for these traits could be expected at different environments. Most cytoplasmic and maternal additive correlations were significantly positive and dominance interaction correlations were also important among all the pairwise traits. Indirect selection of these two amino acids applied in rice breeding was discussed.
23789807|The purpose of the study was to determine the influence of temperature and rainfall on selected quality traits and parameters of the yield structure in the period from kernel filling to maturity. The research material comprised 30 strains and variations of winter wheat collected by the staff of the Plant Breeding and Acclimatization Institute. The following traits were marked: resistance to pre-harvest sprouting, falling number and sedimentation value, protein content, 1000-kernel weight, the number and weight of kernels in an ear as well as the number of days from heading to full maturity. The least stable trait over the annual periods proved to be the resistance to pre-harvest sprouting and the falling number. It was observed that dry and hot summers tended to shorten the period between kernel filling and maturity and also to increase falling number and sedimentation value. Also, a very high correlation was observed between the number of days without rain and resistance to pre-harvest sprouting. In the years with a high level of rain and a balanced distribution of rainfall, there were significant negative correlations between the number of kernels per ear, on the one hand, and protein content and sedimentation value on the other, and also between the sedimentation value and the kernel weight per ear. In the years with the least number of rainfalls, such correlations were not observed.
23786170|Est5 is a monomeric, polymorphic, electrophoretically slow leaf esterase of Aegilops tauschii. Previously it was found that Est5 was involved in the process of adaptive intraspecies divergence, and was genetically linked with another Ae. tauschii enzyme locus of unknown chromosomal location - Nadhd2. The genes orthologous to Est5 are found to be located in chromosomes 3DL and 3AL of common wheat cultivar 'Chinese Spring'.
90003093|The effects of mineral nitrogen fertilization on the total organic carbon (TOC), total nitrogen (TN), soil microbial biomass C and N (MBC, MBN), root length density and carbon input and the rate of cellulose decomposition were studied in soils with different physical properties and fertility in intensive, high productive tomato culture. Plant C and N accumulation as well as fruit yield were depended on soil type and N rate. N fertilization significantly affected on the carbon input by the root biomass of the crop. Significant effects of N fertilization rates neither on soil MBC nor on MBN were shown at harvest; by that time the inorganic N content of the soils became depleted by crops and only the effects of the soil type could be detected. Stimulating effect of N fertilization on the rate of cellulose decomposition during crop growth indicates the inorganic N demand of MB competing with crop roots for the nutrients.
23789826|The present study was focused on the selection of S. cereale cultivars of different geographic origin showing polymorphism detectable by fluorescent in situ hybridization on their 1RS chromosome arms. One perennial and four annual genotypes were tested. FISH was carried out with the DNA probes pSc119.2 and (AAC)5. The pSc119.2 probe gave hybridization signals different from that of the rye 'Petkus' on the 1RS arms of all five rye cultivars examined. Differences were manifested mainly in the intensity of the labelling, but the complete lack of FISH signals and double signals were also observed.
23784035|Proso millet (Panicum miliaceum L.) is generally regarded as tolerant to various stress conditions; however, it has not been studied for variability in acid soil tolerance. A short-term bioassay was used to evaluate genotyperesponse to acid soil high in extractable and exchangeable aluminum (A1). Four genotypes showed susceptibility, six were intermediate, and four proved to be tolerant, indicating the potential for improving acid soil tolerance within this species.
23783967|The morphology of teliospores of Neovossia indica, N. horrida, Tilletia caries, Urocystis tritici and Ustilago nuda was studied using scanning electron microscope. Thin sections of teliospore of N. indica were also observed with transmission electron microscope. The mature teliospores of T. indica were brown to dark brown, spherical or sub-spherical to oval in shape and ranged from 28.88 to 31.9 m in size. The spore wall consisted of three layers. The perisporium was the outermost layer and filled spaces between the projections and extended beyond them to form an envelope and appeared to be fibrous and stretchable in nature. The perisporium enclosed young, immature spores completely. The episporium had surface projections of 3.1-4.0 m in size. N. horrida teliospores were 15.1- 16.8 m in size and had a more smooth looking outer surface and regularly spaced pointed projections. The teliospores of T. caries were oval to round, 12-16 m in size with depression on two sides of some of the spores and had well developed reticulate ridges which appeared to be continuous with one another with few exceptions. The teliospores of Urocystis tritici were compound in nature. The number of cells in front view ranged from 13-20. The shape of the cells was deep cup like with thick raised margins (1.5-1.8 m) and conspicuous depressions. The teliospores of Ustilago tritici were 3.6 x 4.8-5.2 m and had small pointed regularly spaced surface spines and had small depressions on their sides which appeared spherical, oblong or cup shaped.
90003323|Prosaro, containing tebuconazole and prothioconazole, exhibits superior efficacy against Fusarium head blight and can reduce the infection up to 90%. Both triazoles do not only reduce drastically the fungal infection, but also reduce trichothecene contamination, as shown in numerous field trials over several years. Best results in FHB efficacy as well as in mycotoxin reduction were achieved through perfect application timing, combined with an optimal nozzle type.
23789301|Developmental genetics of phenylalanine content in indica-japonica hybrid rice (Oryza sativa L.) have been studied through 7 indica rice crossed with 5 japonica rice by using the developmental genetic models and corresponding statistical approaches for quantitative traits of triploid seeds in cereal crops. The unconditional genetic model was used to analyze the cumulative genetic effects (from flowering to a specific time) along the developmental stages, and the conditional genetic model was used to analyze the genetic effects in one specially developmental stage from one filling time to another time (t1t). Results showed that phenylalanine content of indica-japonica hybrid rice was simultaneously controlled by the triploid endosperm effects, cytoplasm effects, diploid maternal effects and their genotype x environment interaction effects. Endosperm dominance effect, maternal additive effect and cytoplasmic effect were more important at the initial stage of rice development than endosperm additive effect and maternal dominance effect. With regard to the components of heritability, maternal and cytoplasm general heritability and their interaction heritability were higher for phenylalanine content at all 5 developmental stages. Respectively, it occupied 68.3, 92.4, 100.0, 100.0 and 78.9% among all the component of heritability. It was suggested that improving the phenylalanine content of indica-japonica hybrid rice would be more efficient when selection was based on maternal plants at early generations in rice breeding program.
90002802|High-level pest control has high priority in the competitive agriculture. Within the pest control the weed management has the highest priority in a way of agronomy and economy. In our research we examined different weed management technologies in a way of income considering yield and costs in corn production. Prime factors were the whole field spraying and the band spraying at sowing complemented with in-row cultivation. In the Hungarian agriculture the practice of precision farming technology is spreading. The great importance of the precision farming technology is the reduction of environmental damage and to preserve the soil productivity. The aim of this study is to make analysis about material and operational costs of the precision weed management technology according to the traditional/conventional technologies in both cases mentioned above.
23782891|Mixing properties (mixograph and farinograph tests), gluten strength (SDS sedimentation test), firmness of normally cooked and overcooked pasta (aleurograph test) of seven durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.) varieties grown in Hungary from the 1983, 1984 and 1985 harvests were studied. Moreover, their gliadin proteins were separated by aluminium lactate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (AL-PAGE) and compared. Based upon the gluten strength, cooking quality and presence or absence of the -gliadin bands 42 and 45 respectively, the studied varieties could be classified into two quality groups and AL-PAGE is suggested to use as a screening test for cooking quality in early generations of durum wheat.
90003132|There are several grassland products the economic values of which are unclear in several cases. Besides demonstrating the social benefits of grassland products, the objective of the present study is to present the value of their diverse forms of utilization and their definitions in practice. The study groups marketable and non-marketable grass products and introduces a new category, the animal husbandry value of grasses.
23783080|Variation in stomatal density and size were examined in field trials on graminaceous species (Triticum durum Desf., Hordeum vulgare L., Dasypyrum villosum L. Candargy) and in the amphiploid obtained by interspecific cross between Dasypyrum and "Creso" durum wheat cultivar. Wide variation of stomatal traits were observed and, in general, stomatal density was lower in durum wheat than in barley. Correlation analysis of stomatal and bioagronomic traits showed the implication of leaf growth in determining the distribution of stomata on the leaf. In respect to amphiploid study, stomatal traits variation appeared related to Dasypyrum allogamy and to amphiploid ploidy level. The possibilities to employe the morphoanatomic knoledges on stomata in plant breeding programs to select genotypes with improved water use are discussed.
23789842|Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis was carried out with a set of 114 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from the International Triticeae Mapping Initiative (ITMI) population of 'W7984' x 'Opata 85' to identify genomic regions controlling traits related to post-anthesis drought tolerance of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). In two experiments performed in Gatersleben in 2001 and 2003, the amount stem reserves mobilisation was estimated by measuring of changes in 1000-grain weight after chemical desiccation treatment. QTLs for stem reserves mobilisation (Srm) were mapped on chromosomes 2D, 5D and 7D. The mapping positions obtained in the present investigation are discussed with respect to studies on drought tolerance performed in wheat previously. QTLs for drought tolerance preferentially appeared in homoeologous regions at distal parts of the group 7 chromosomes.
23787208|The bread-making quality of wheat depends on the grain protein content and composition, which is accompanying with yield depression. Our research, demonstrated that only a small part of protein variation can be explained by variation of yield (r2= 0,128), which provide a solid evidence that simultaneous progress in breeding for elevated protein and grain yield is possible. The genotype x environment interaction was made by ANOVA and permitted the estimation of percentage contributions of different sources of variance involved in phenotypic expression of wheat bread-making quality parameters. Indeed, the heritability coefficients were small for protein content (H=0,37), but large enough for sedimentation index (H=0,89), gluten content (H=0,66), deformation index (H=0,52), and loaf volume (H=0,58). By using of high quality genotypes as parents for crosses in the wheat-breeding program at Agricultural Research Station Turda, we have released in the last 10 years, three quality improved winter wheat varieties (Apullum, Turda 95, and Turda 2000). Also, some new promising high quality lines (T51-97, T53-97, and T95-97) that combine superior agronomical characteristics and acceptable productivity with excellent gluten properties have been developed.
23785317|Response to artificial infection with Fusarium culmorum was evaluated in two sets of winter wheat varieties for a five year period. Each set included the Czech and Slovak registered varieties and selected foreign varieties (mainly the sources of resistance). The development of Fusarium head blight apparently differed in the years of testing, but the ranking of genotypes according to the symptom reaction, ADPC (area under the disease progress curve) and reduction of thousand grain weight was similar in different years. The visual symptom scoring was in each year correlated with the reduction of thousand grain weight, but only in three of five years with the reduction of grain number per spike. This trait did not show significant interannual correlations. For the selection of resistant genotypes in a single year, visual scoring and grain weight reduction could be recommended as criteria. Among the foreign varieties tested in five years the varieties Arina and Praag 8, followed by Bizel and Kooperatorka had the highest resistance level. Moderate resistance to Fusarium head blight was detected also in some modern Czech and Slovak varieties. Recent detection of high resistance in the Czech advanced breeding lines SG-U-466 (Bona) and SG-U-513 is particularly important for breeding purposes.
23784024|The effect of various sugars as a carbohydrate source on pollen embryo formation was investigated in 11 wheat cultivars. In all cultivars, the largest number of pollen embryo was formed on the medium containing maltose among the media containing various sugars. Pollen embryos produced in maltose containing medium showed more vigorous green plant regeneration than those in media containing other kinds of sugars.
90003283|To investigate pathogenicity of Fusarium graminearum, Fusarium verticillioides and Fusarium subglutinans to maize ears artficial infection was done. Isolates of
23780399|The alpha-amylase activities of individual kernels taken from nine ears of Maris Huntsman wheat grown under a variety of conditions were determined. In spite of enormous variations in activity levels, underlying trends which applied to more than half of the ears were detected. Amylase activity increased from apex to base of the spike while within spikelets a distribution similar to that of grain weight emerged. Grain morphology could not be regarded as an indicator of likely enzyme level.
23783111|Effect of flag-leaf and/or awn removal on grain yield of 100 spikes, kernel number and 1000-grain weight were investigated in eleven durum wheat/Triticum durum, Desf./ genotypes grown under irrigated conditions at Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, India. The treatments were control, removal of flag-leaf at boot-leaf stage, removal of awns at eat emergence and after anthesis and a combination of awns and flag-leaf removal at ear emergence. Genotypes differed significatly for all the traits under study. Flag-leaf removal, awn removal at ear emergence and after anthesis, and combination of both significantly reduced grain yield of 100 spikes by 12.52, 17.31, 13.49 and 28.09%; and 1000-grain weight by 12.09, 16.85, 13.00 and 26.01% respectively. Grains per spike were least affected following all removal treatments. High, positive correlation coefficients of flag-leaf area and awn length were observed with their respective contributions /r = + 0.78** and +0.81** respectively/ towards grain yield. Nonsignificant correlation coefficients between grain yield of 100 spikes of untreated tillers with awn length /r = 0.05/ and flag-leaf area /r= 0.04/ indicated that flag-leaf and awns had more consistent advantage for grain weight than for yield i.e. these individually can not be used as an index of selection for getting higher-yielding plants from a mixture of genotypes. Removal of flag-leaf and its combination with awns affected more adversely grain yield in dwarf genotypes than taller ones.
90002777|The microbial respiration, calculated from O
90003462|Negative effects from the environment appear as stress on landscape forming factors (bedrock, soil, relief, water, vegetation etc.), and some factors have sensitive reactions to these effects. The aim of this paper is to show how landscape forming factors respond to the environmental stress by giving some examples (soil pollution, changes of groundwater level, natural vegetation and plant production). An example of soil pollution in nearly natural environment is the area along the Orf-Pcs road in Western Mecsek. We detected that the total cadmium content is higher than the allowed limit in samples taken near the surface, presumably because of an anthropogenic effect. Vehicles travel slowly in the so-called Szuad-bend because of the sharp hairpin bend and this is why the soil is susceptible to transport-related pollution. Aridification of the sand ridges between the Danube and Tisza Rivers is a serious stress on groundwater as landscape forming factor. Because of aridification, the level of the groundwater sunk 1,5-2 m in the last 25-30 years, and saline lakes between the Danube and Tisza are in a desiccation state. Changes of the vegetation are one of the most apparent examples of the response to stress caused by a decreasing level of groundwater. In this paper, it is attempted to reveal the changes that occurred in the last 25 years by analysing vegetation maps of Szvs-szk and Szappan-szk from different periods. The influence of environmental stress on agricultural production is emphasized by the sensitivity of sandy soils with high organic matter content to nitrate-nitrite pollution. The results of the nitrogen calibration test on soil with good pervious and bad water keeping characteristics show that  depending on groundwater level  pollution due to excessive fertilizing can reach the groundwater after 3-4 years. In case of excessive fertilizing the overdosed fertilizer could also be a stress-factor for cultivated plants.
90002882|Carbon source treatment was applied on three sites differing in elevation, soil moisture and productivity in order to lower soil nitrogen availability and facilitate the natural regeneration process on an ex-arable field. The treatment significantly decreased the available nitrogen content of the soil on all sites. The plant composition according to the N demand of species was significantly influenced by the abiotic differences of the three sites. The vegetations response to the treatment could only be detected on the most productive site, where the change in the soil caused by the carbon treatment was the most pronounced. Thus our results showed that the initial soil characteristics had a great influence on vegetation composition change and the effect of the carbon treatment.
23781418|The effect of two plant densities and six levels of N fertilizer on grain yield, chemical components and quality characters of two hexaploid triticale and two wheat varieties grown at two locations: Kecskemt and Szeged, Hungary, for 2 years were studied. Increasing the nitrogen rate from 0 to 120 kg/ha significantly increased grain yield, protein content, gluten content and sedimentation value of all the varieties, but crude fat, starch content and falling number decreased, however, ash and crude fiber contents were not affected. On the other hand, average of grain yield, chemical and quality characters over two seasons and locations were not affected by plant density. There was a marked effect of season and location on grain yield and protein content. Both triticale had a lower gluten content, sedimentation value and higher crude fiber, ash content, and alpha-amylase activity than the two wheat varieties.
90003360|The field experiment was carried out over the period 1999-2005 on Luvi-Haplic Chernozem in Western Slovakia. The purpose of the study was to investigate the impact of weather conditions, organic and low input system under two N fertilization treatments on yield and yield components and quality traits of winter wheat. Winter wheat was grown in six-crop rotation pattern as follows: common pea - winter wheat -early potato - spring barley with the under-sowing of red clover - first year red clover - winter wheat. The partitioning of the variance showed that weather conditions prevailing during particular evaluated year were the most important factor in determining yield of winter wheat, thousand of kernels weight, number of spike per m
23786920|This study was carried out to determine the influence of water deficit on yield and yield components of winter wheat under Thrace conditions. Four wheat genotypes (MV-17, Flamura 85, Saraybosna and Kate-A-1) were grown under five different water stress treatments during the 1998/1999 and 1999/2000 growing seasons. The water stress treatments were unstressed control (S0), water stress at the late vegetative period (S1), at the flowering period (S2), at the grain formation period (S3) and the full stress (non-irrigation S4). The effects of water stress treatment on grain yield and yield components were statistically significant compared with non-stressed conditions. Grain yield under nonirrigated conditions was reduced approximately 40 %. Among the genotypes, MV 17 gave the highest grain yield.
90002791|We established a long-term eld study in a sessile oak-turkey oak forest in Central Europe Hungary (Skfkt Experimental Forest (SIK) to address how detrital quality and quantity control soil organic matter (SOM) accumulation and soil respiration. Due to the climate change the species composition of forest has been changing (Kotrocz et al., 2007), and the total leaf litter production has been slightly decreasing. According to our long-term litter manipulation field experiment, after a 5 year treating period, at the No Litter, No Root and No Input treatments the soil organic carbon, the soil pH, the soil enzyme activity (Fekete et al., 2007; Tth et al., 2007; Kotrocz et al., 2006) and soil respiration decreased. If the average soil temperature raise by 2C at the dry SIK site, the soil respiration would increase by 22.1%. The increasing soil respiration could speed up the global warming by positive feedback mechanism.
23783987|A major limitation in breeding for insect resistance is the escape of genotypes. Recurrent selection schemes for intrapopulation improvement based on alternate evaluation of first generation families (half-sib or full-sib or selfed) and second generation families developed through selfing or crossing in them, are presented. These enable selection of genotypes over two generations which should help in minimising the escapes and increasing the genetic progress for insect resistance.
90002845|The subject of the dissertation: research of the different cutting mechanism mowers. The different fertilizing technologies on the park type of lawn, wich is not or just sometimes irrigated.
90003019|Our study was carried out at Keszthely, in 2006. The effect of different cultivation methods: no-till drill, disk tillage, conventional tillage (ploughing) and five increasing N doses were studied on the weediness. Samples were taken 4 and 9 weeks after the sowing of maize. For the reason of competition studies no herbicides were applied on sampling sites. For comparison, maize plants from neighbouring herbicide-treated sites were harvested and analyzed. The aerial parts of plants were collected, and the fresh and dry matter weight was measured. We analyzed in detail, the occurrence of weed species, and the biomass production of weeds in comparison with maize. Data obtained from weedy and weed-free control areas were then compared. The effect of different cultivation methods markedly demonstrated the weed cover, the number of perennial and annual weeds and the number of occurring weed species. As a result of crop-weed competition we can establish, that the shoot mass of maize plants was more than 40 % lower on weedy sites than on herbicide treated (weed free) sites. We found that uptake of nutrients in large amounts by weeds at the early stage of the development of maize is an important factor in crop-weed competition.
23789846|Protein sets, enzyme activities and immune reactivity against wheat germ agglutinin in the albumin-globulin fractions of parent and herbicide resistant transgenic wheat lines were studied. Our results showed significantly increased amylase activities and increased immune, reactivity against wheat germ agglutinin in the herbicide resistant transgenic wheat lines, investigated. The amylases and lectins belong to the plant food allergens; this explains why both scientists and consumers are interested in assessing the allergenic potential of plant proteins and the safety assessment of novel foods and GM foods in highlight of food safety. This paper is an important contribution to our database and the understanding of what is going on with genetic engineering of crop plants.
90002781|In our long-term soil tillage experiment situated in Lower-Austria, the effects of conservation tillage systems on soil physical properties, hydro-physical characteristics and crop yield were examined in maize monoculture during ten years. Even though the results of bulk density and penetration resistant measurements show that direct drilling resulted soil compaction in topsoil in contrast with ridge tillage and conventional tillage, in case of crop yield were not considerable differences between the tillage treatments thanks to the soil moisture and plant available water content.
23783910|Five barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genotypes were tested for their anther culture responses under two conditions with or without cold pretreatment. Among these genotypes, four (Thibaut, Morex, Steptoe and Villa 2X) were diploid. The last one (Villa 4X), was an autotetraploid genotype obtained by colchicine treatment of Villa 2X. The experimental design was a randomized complete block with 4 replicates. Each replicate consisted of one pot with three plants per genotype and per cold pretreatment. Anther donor plants were grown in a controlled greenhouse. The study of about 1400 anthers per genotype and per cold pretreatment showed that the effect of genotype on androgenic ability was highly significant. Thibaut was by far the most androgenic genotype while, at the other extreme, Villa 4X did not even produce a single green plantlet. The anther culture responses dropped significantly in Villa 4X compared with Villa 2X, probably because autotetraploids typically exhibit a great loss of pollen fertility. Finally, the cold pretreatment of excised spikes at 4C for 14 days significantly enhanced the percentage of responding anthers and the number of embryoids produced as well as the frequency of green plantlet regeneration.
90003369|The effect of an abiotic factor the crop year on the sowing time and crop density of sunflower hybrids was examined in a field research. We have evaluated the crop yield and the pathologic reaction of sunflower hybrids in two years with different amount of precipitation (2007 and 2008), at three sowing times (end of march, middle of april, beginning of may) and at 4 crop density levels (35000 plant ha
23786262|Successful plant transformation is dependent upon a reliable plant regeneration system. In cereals, immature embryos are the explants of choice but are inconvenient due to their temporal nature and maintenance requirements. The effects of three different auxins, 2,4-D, dicamba, and picloram, on two mature tissue explant types, mature embryo and hypocotyl, of three Avena genotypes, GAF/Park, Park, and 88Ab3073, were evaluated for callus formation, somatic embryogenesis (SE), and plant regeneration capabilities. Both mature embryo and hypocotyl explants were proliferated on modified Murashige and Skoog (MS) basal medium containing 5, 10, and 20 M of each auxin and were regenerated on 1/2-MS medium without hormone. Although plant number was significantly correlated with SE number, it was not absolutely linked to a priori somatic embryogenesis, especially for 88AB3073 explants. While stimulating callus growth, both dicamba and picloram decreased embryogenicity and regenerability over that obtained with 2,4-D. Picloram may be useful for the isolation of SE-related genes as somatic embryogenesis in oat callus was strongly inhibited in the presence of picloram.
23781336|Segregation for seedling resistance to Puccinia graminis tritici culture 334 in a monotelodisomic 3BL heterozygote involving the chromosome substitution line Chinese Spring (Thatcher 3B) as one parent indicated that the recessive hemizygous ineffective gene was located in chromosome 3BS, or possibly close to the centromere in 3BL. This gene was interpreted to be Sr12 although Sheen and Snyder (1964) originally allocated Sr12 to a dominant gene thought to be very closely linked in coupling to a second recessive gene.
23785379|The role of FA in pathological processes is still unclear. The first step to solve this question is to divide FO strains into FA-producers and FA-nonproducers by a bioassay using Bacillus subtilis (BS). The differences in size of the zones answered to the quantity of FA production. The modified method of FA extraction need to be use from infected plants.
23790054|The effect of gamma irradiation on five common wheat cultivars which are all the spring cultivars, namely Gonen, Cumhuriyet, Ziyabey, Izmir and Basribey were studied. Various doses of gamma irradiation, i.e. (0-150-300 Gy) were applied to dry seed. The mutated populations were grown at two locations (Bornova and Alasehir) in the 20032004 and 20042005 growing season. A total of 100 single plants were selected from each mutant and control population in 20032004 growing season. Twenty-five percent selection pressure was applied. The progeny rows of the selected mutant plants were grown at two locations in 20042005 growing season. A second stage selection was applied in each progeny population and selected mutant lines were advanced to the micro yield testing. Genetic advance at each stage of selection was estimated for single plant yield, and expected progeny means for plot yield was estimated. In certain mutant populations, heritability and phenotypic standard deviation values, genetic gains were higher than control population. The progeny means of the certain mutant populations were higher when compared with control populations as well.
23792340|A total 332 Aegilops tauschii accessions represented by 180 ssp. tauschii and 152 ssp. strangulata accessions from across the range of the species were studied. All ssp. tauschii plants were glossy. Plants with waxy spikes and leaf sheaths were found in 19 accessions belonging to ssp. strangulata. Waxy plants were mostly found in relatively warm and drier parts of ssp. strangulata area. About 0.03 of ssp. strangulata accessions from the Pre-Caspian regions had waxy plants, whereas among inland accessions of ssp. strangulata this ratio was 0.28. Accessions with waxy plants were not present in latitudes higher than 40N; and in Pre-Caspian regions they were not found to the west from 51 longitude.
23786278|In acid soils, aluminium (Al3+) toxicity is the primary stress factor for growth and ion transport of roots. Beside Al3+, nitrite (NO2) may also be a significant stress factor in low pH environment. The objective of this study was to examine the dual effects of Al3+ and NO2 on potassium (K+) transport of common winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. Jubilejnaja 50) and durum wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. GK Betadur). In 24 h Al3+ treatments, the K+ influx increased with increasing AlCl3 concentrations in roots and shoots of both species. At the same time, the K+ concentration of roots and shoots was not elevated by Al3+. In the cases of nitrite + aluminium treatment combinations, a strong inhibition were observed in K+ uptake along with K+ concentration of roots and shoots in both species. High concentrations of Al3+ and NO2 together with low pH conditions may play significant role in stress condition of cereal crops produced in acidic soils.
90002766|Significant carbon losses from temperate grasslands on different soils may occur due to interannual variations in microclimatic patterns most notably due to increased drought and heat stress extremities. The investigated grassland ecosystems can take up 186 gC m
90003181|Native alleles for resistance to
23783720|A scheme of recurrent selection involving S1 selection, within-S1 selection and half-sib selection (RS-S1S1wHS) is proposed. This and two other schemes, namely alternate recurrent selection based on modified S1 selection and half-sib selection (ARS-MS1HS) and on S1 selection and half-sib selection (ARS-S1HS), are compared for their expected genetic gains per year. A year was considered to have one growing (evaluation) season. The expected genetic gains of RS-S1S1wHS and ARS-MS1HS schemes were comparable with each other, but were slightly higher than that of ARS-S1HS (4-11%).
90002922|The current climate changes that we have been experiencing during the past few years have caused remarkable changes of the parameters of climatic elements. Concerning the changes in atmosphere there has been an increase in the periodicity of the occurence of extreme hydrologic events in the past few years. Both periods without rain have lengthened and the occurence of extremely heavy and intense rainfalls increased. These changing parameters of the climatic elements has significant impacts on the soil-water regime and plant production. The aim of this study is to quantify the impact of climatic elements on the soil-water regime.
90002867|A greenhouse study was carried out to determine N, P, K, Ca and Mg leaching as well as water uptake in tomato growing on three different substrates. The assumption that various physicochemical properties of growing media can affect plant water uptake and nutrients absorption was confirmed. The same fertigation management significantly affected amounts of drained nutrients (327-373 g m
23784188|A genuine amphiploid was developed between the ditelosomic line of cv. Chinese Spring (T. aestivum L. - ABD) with missing short arm of 5A chromosome and Ae. ovata (MU) as a result of hybridization and polyploidization of F1 plants. The process of cytogenetics stabilization of the amphiploid in the various generations was studied. In the initial generations an enhanced homeologic pairing was observed, particularly in the third generation, while in later generations homologic pairing was increased. Falling apart of the individual chromosomes in the process of stabilization affected all subgenomes. In the fifth generation the presence was established of all chromosomes from subgenome B, 2A, 3A, 4A, 5A, 6A, 7A and 1D chromosomes, using differential staining of the chromosomes by the method of N-banding. 6B chromosome was in momosomic state, while 2B was reduced in length, compared with the initial form. The amphiploid was distinguished by relatively high fertility and high complex disease resistance and presents an interest for the future genetical and breeding investigations. The increased dose of the separate genomes in the amphiploid caused unequal changes in the main quantitative characters. Spike length and number of spikelets per spike were less affected by the polyploidy. The chromosome number of the amphiploid varied from 60 to 62.
90003509|The vegetation period of 2007 was droughty in Hungary. There was only 2.1 mm precipitation in the spring of 2007 from 25
90003461|Although we have not yet the scientific founded statement about global climate change, some institutions of the today world are offering the models for prediction of these changes. Global climatic model has been run prediction on monthly basis for the southern Mediterranean part of the Country (Popovo Polje) the percentage decrease of precipitation (25%) and air temperatures increase (2 C) with respect to mean monthly values for the last fouty years. In our paper we would like just to test how this change could exert influence on the future soil water stress.
23786058|The effect of crop production factors on the maize yield was studied on a chernozem soil with lime deposits at the Ltkp Experimental Farm of the Department of Land Use of the Debrecen Agricultural University between 1989 and 1994. A multifactorial long-term experiment made it possible to evaluate the effects and interactions of fertilization and soil cultivation. Soil cultivation can only be considered to be up-to-date and adaptable if it is adjusted both to soil status and to farming conditions. The method, tool and depth of cultivation must be chosen to suit the physical state of the soil. A consideration of the moisture content of the soil reduces damage to the soil structure. The experimental results prove that on a chernozem soil, provided precipitation supplies are at least average, winter ploughing, even without fertilization or with low fertilizer rates, causes a substantial increase in the maize yield by making the soil nutrients available to the plant. The extra yield achieved with winter ploughing without fertilization was 1.4-2.3 t/ha compared to the unploughed variant. In fertilized treatments the yield increase was greater, averaging 2.8-3.3 t/ha. Over a six-year average, the yields were 0.6 t/ha lower after spring ploughing than after winter ploughing. In dry years the yield difference was somewhat smaller, but under favourable rainfall conditions maize grown after spring ploughing yielded 1.0-1.4 t/ha less than after winter ploughing. Fertilization was able to compensate in part, but not entirely, for other unfavourable agrotechnical effects. Without ploughing the extra yield due to fertilization was 2.8 t/ha in dry years and 3.8 t/ha under more favourable rainfall conditions. After winter ploughing the difference between the years was smaller (0.6 t/ha), with an extra yield of 3.1 t/ha in dry years and 3.7 t/ha after average rainfall. The yield-increasing effect of fertilization, averaged over the six years examined, differed in the three soil cultivation variants. Linear and quadratic terms were significant in the fertilizer effect, so the relationship can be described well using an optimum curve. The breakdown of the interaction between fertilization and soil cultivation using orthogonal polynomes indicates that in the linear phase, representing initial low fertilizer rates, there is no substantial difference of the three types of soil cultivation.
23787252|The combining ability of each of 11 parents and their 55 F1s for fodder yield, quality and physiological attributes were worked out in three diverse test locations. In most of the instances, the GCA and SCA interacted significantly with environments. The estimates of 2gl revealed significant differences for all the characters except plant height, leaf-stem ratio, crude protein content and IVDMD. Highly significant differences were also exhibited among the estimates of 2sl for all the characters. The 2gl interaction were comparatively of lower magnitude for all the characters than their respective 2sl showing better stability of GCA variances for all the traits. Among them, 2gl interactions were not significant for plant height, leaf-stem ratio, crude protein and IVDMD of which GCA variances reflected much higher stability. The parents Kent, JHO 822, OS 240, OS 277 and UPO 212 showed stable performance for green fodder yield, dry matter content and crop leaf area. Five F1 hybrids namely, JHO 94-1/UPO 212, JHO 94-1/JHO 999, JHO 94-1/OS 240, OS 277/OL 966 and UPO 240/ OS 240 were found stable for green fodder yield and related attributes. The crosses, UPO 212/ EC 130639, JHO 94-1/ JHO 999, JHO 999/ OS 240, UPO 240/ OS 240 and UPO 240/ EC 130639 exhibited significant SCA effects and desirable per se performance for green fodder yield. These highly stable F1 hybrids could be exploited for production, developmental and quality traits in further breeding programme for getting them adapted under varying conditions.
23780397|This report deals with two topics : firstly, it describes the kind of information obtained on -amylases in a few cereals by using the immunochemical approach, with emphasis on seed maturation and germination. Secondly, it indicates different possible applications of the immunochemical characterization of -amylases (immune serum used as specific molecular sieve, immune serum used for detection and determination of enzymatic proteins).
23786219|Early and late durum wheat varieties, T. durum/T. dicoccoides interspecific lines, accessions of the wild Triticeae species Aegilops geniculata Roth and Hordeum chilense Roem. et Schult., and Ae. geniculata/T. durum and H. chilense/T. durum amphiploids were compared for root attributes and some agronomical traits as earliness, tiller number and above-ground biomass production. A wide variation was observed for most traits and strong correlations were noted between them. The tested genetic material however significantly differed for root development, root depth, tiller number and earliness. H. chilense exhibited a lower shoot: root dry weight ratio. Primary root axis was found significantly longer in the interspecific tetraploid lines and Ae. geniculata/T. durum amphiploids. A high tillering capacity was noted in the wild wheat Ae. geniculata and in Ae. geniculata/T. durum amphiploids. The highest tiller number: total root number ratio (TN/TRN) value was noted in Ae. geniculata. The potential interest of these traits for durum wheat improvement is discussed by takink into account their relationship with biomass production and plant architecture.
23781352|Development and use of random-mating population is an important aspect of our population improvement, in addition to the conventional line breeding methodology in the sorghum breeding program. The discovery of the genetic male-sterile ms7 from an indigenous sorghum cultivar, and the subsequent formation of breeding populations at Samaru, have enabled us to start a viable population improvement and recurrent selection program. Two breeding systems were used in the scheme: stratified mass selection and SI progeny testing. Progress made so far indicates that yields in the two composites B and Y, have been increased, though not significantly, by three cycles of mass selection. Selection differentials in the SI evaluation indicates an expected increase for yield in B composite.
23782982|The yielding capacity of the recurrent parent winter wheat variety Tadorna, its 5 components, developed by recurrent back crossing and the multiline Tumult composed of these five components were investigated at two sites under control versus disease free treatment. No significant difference in yield was found. Hence the components have obtained the yielding capacity of the recurrent parent. As there was no severe disease attack, a positive or negative multiline effect could not express itself.
90002646|Germination of four soybean cultivars across four years and three locations was tested in main soybean production area in Croatia. The analysis of variance of the four cultivars in 12 environments shows that environment (E), genotype (G), and their interaction (GEI) were significant (P<0.01) for soybean seed germination. The paper shows that AMMI (additive main effects and multiplicative interaction) model was effective for studying genotype by environment interaction. The biplots show that cultivars Podravka 95 and Ika had the highest stability for investigated trait. No genotype has superior performance in all environments.
23786148|Present-day Spanish hulled wheats, Triticum monococcum L., T. dicoccum (Schrank) Schulb. and T. spelta L. largely collected from the Asturias mountains have been grown and conserved at the John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK. A number of morphological characters have been recorded, including height, glume colour and pubescence, awn colour and grain colour. A preliminary screen of storage protein composition was also carried out. The value of these hulled wheats as a genetic resource and their possible unique origin is briefly discussed.
90003284|
               
23792273|Nowadays, identification of the novel physio-biological and therapeutic functions of plant cysteine proteinase inhibitors "plant cystatins / phytocystatins" are the great of interests for molecular biologists. Whether for biochemical, structural or functional studies, their successful expression along with an easy purification method is required. To date, fusion tags are the best available tools that meet all those requirements. We report here the cloning and simple functional expression and purification of a barley putative cystatin in Escherichia coli cells. For the first time, a part of barley coding sequence containing a predicted active cystatin was amplified by polymerase chain reaction and expressed as maltose binding fusion protein in TB1 strain of E. coli cells using pMALc2X over-expression vector system without affecting the bacterial growth. The expressed product was purified by single step affinity chromatography from the soluble fraction of induced culture at a yield of about 37 mg/ liter of bacterial cell culture. The purified fused protein could efficiently inhibit papain activity in vitro without the cleavage of the fusion partner.
90003055|During our experiment we examined the action of Bactofil B10 bacterial fertilizer on two industrial poppy species (Kk Duna, Kk Gemona) concerning the chemical composition volume of them. Field experimentation was started on the experimenting fields of University of West Hungary in Mosonmagyarvr in 2007. The bacterial fertilizer was spread onto the surface of the ground just before sowing, then it was rotated into to soil with seed-bed tillers. Crudeprotein as well as P-, Ca-, Mg-, Mn- and Fe-contents of the plants treated with Bactofil 10 bacterial fertilizer grew significantly, while K-, Na- and Cu-content decreased compared to the chemical composition volume of the control group.
23781416|Eight oat lines were infected with BYDV and evaluated under field conditions for grain loss, straw loss, economic loss, and tolerance index. In 1982, grain losses for the susceptible genotypes were 56-77%, straw losses were 38-55%, and economic losses were 40-66%. For the resistant genotypes, grain losses were 22-34%, straw losses were 16-27%, and economic losses were 19-30%. Tolerance index was an excellent indicator of varietal resistance to BYDV. The susceptible genotypes had tolerance indexes of 45-73% in 1982, and the resistant genotypes ranged from 91-98%. Tolerance index was more stable than the other measures of resistance, and it was negatively correlated with economic losses due to infection.
23781413|The standing ability of silage maize and the chemical composition of the stalk were examined in 1980 and 1981 in two early maturing and two medium maturing, normal hybrids of different stalk strength. Among the hybrids of different stalk strength there was a significant difference in the power necessary for rind puncture at the third internode above the earth at the time of tasseling. Standing ability of the hybrid can be chracterized only together with the dimension of the leaf area exposed to wind pressure. Though there is a close correlation between rind puncture and lignine content, standing ability shows considerably less correlation with lignine content than earlier experiences indicated. Protein and ash indicate for low stubble harvesting, while structural carbohydrates indicate tall stubble.
23781495|Triticum longissimum disomic addition line, G, one of the seven addition lines produced recently on the genetic background of T. aestivum, cultivar Chinese Spring, carries genes coding for powdery mildew resistance and brittle rachis. Preliminary data indicate that this T. longissimum chromosome is homoeologous to the group three chromosomes of common wheat. To determine this, studies were made on the phosphodiesterase zymogram of this line and on those of addition lines for each of its two arms. The diploid line of T. longissimum (genome S1S1) which donated chromosome G exhibited a single phosphodiesterase band which differed from the three bands of the cultivar Chinese Spring. All the lines which contained chromosome G or its short arm in addition to the genome of the cultivar Chinese Spring showed six phosphodiesterase bands, two of which were not expressed by either parent. It has been concluded that the short arm of chromosome G carries a T. longissimum derived gene which is functionally homoeologous to the phosphodiesterase triplicate gene set of the cultivar Chinese Spring. The staining intensity of the T. longissimum derived phosphodiesterase in disomic addition line G was about twice the intensity of its homoeoalleles from the A and B genomes and about eight times the intensity of its homoeoallele from the D genome of hexaploid wheat. The findings presented here strongly support the hypothesis of homoeology between chromosome G and the group three chromosomes of hexaploid wheat.
23786841|Response of 108 recombinant inbred lines from the cross between winter wheat Sincron (medium resistant) and F 1054 W (susceptible to Fusarium head blight) to artificial inoculation with FHB was studied for 3 years, using several assessment criteria. Area under disease progress curve (AUDPC), relative weight of inoculated spikes (RWIS), relative weight of grains from inoculated spikes (RWG) and percentage of diseased (scabby) grains (PDG) were strongly correlated (r =0.78 to 0.90). The genetic component of variance was 45% of the total variance in AUDPC, 40% in PDG, 35% in RWIS and 33% in RWG, while genotype x environment interaction varied from 53 to 57%. Frequency distributions of lines were continuous for all assessment criteria, suggesting a quantitative inheritance of resistance to FHB, with no significant transgressions and with a slight asymmetry towards susceptibility. Significant differences were found between average AUDPC and RWIS of recombinant inbred lines with alternative alleles at the Gli1B and Gli1D loci. This suggests that quantitative trait loci (QTL) with relatively large effects on FHB resistance are located on chromosomes 1BS and 1DS.
23782909|Variability in the grain-filling patterns of 29 mainly early maturing triticale lines was evaluated in relation to bread wheat at EI Batan and CIANO experimental stations in Mexico. Grain filling in triticale was very different from bread wheat and in particular was associated with high peak water contents, especially in the earliest maturing lines. However, there was considerable variability within the early triticales and some evidence that, as a group, the earlier lines tested were more sensitive to a postanthesis water deficit. Smaller reductions in single grain dry weight were associated with a longer grain-filling period under stress and with slow rates of water loss from the seed in the few days prior to physiological maturity under stress. Some of the better early maturing lines are recommended for increased use in the breeding of early triticales at CIMMYT.
23792272|The parents (the landrace Chinese spring (CS) and a synthetic hexaploids (S6x)) and 17 derived single chromosome substitution lines (SL) were grown in parallel in the field under non-saline (1.0 dSm 1 ) and saline (12.0 dSm 1 ) conditions, and evaluated for a set of phenotypic traits. The performance of CS indicated it to have borderline salinity tolerance with respect to all of the traits except for leaf area (for which it behaved in as a salinity sensitive type). The SL 4D was early in booting, ear emergence, flowering and maturity, while 5D and 2B SLs were both late. The 2B SL produce 33% more ears than CS. The 5D SL under-performed with respect to ear weight, grain number per ear, grain weight per ear and 1000-grain weight both under non-saline and saline conditions. Under saline conditions, four SLs (1A>5A>1D>2B) outperformed Cs for ear length, and six SLs (1D>6A>4B>3A>3B>3D) showed an improved grain weight. The grains produce by the 2B SL were smaller than those of CS. Leaf area developed better in four SLs (4D>2B>1A>7D) than in CS.
23783657|Laboratory screening of 93 accessions of wild Hordeum species revealed inter- and intraspecific variation in the susceptibility of this material to the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko). Resistance to D. noxia was located in accessions of Hordeum sp., H. bulbosum, H. bogdani, H. brevisubulatum, H. brevisubulatum violaceum, H. chilense, and H. marinum, suggesting that wild Hordeum species are a rich source of D. noxia resistant genes.
23783734|Improvement of anther culture response in recalcitrant but high-yielding varieties was studied, applying radiation on the seed, grown and used as panicle source in anther culture. Rice cultivars IR8, IR28, IR36, IR42, IR43, IR50, IR54, IR64, Pokkali and Taipei 309 were used. Three experiments differing in callus induction medium were conducted. Seedling lethality was proportional to increasing radiation dosage. Taipei 309, IR43 and Pokkali proved responsive and the rest of the varieties, recalcitrant in zero radiation treatment. Application of radiation improved callus induction and plant regeneration in recalcitrant varieties, but not so in the responsive varieties. Addition of-agarose is beneficial for callus induction and plant regeneration of all genotypes. The mixture of amino acids induced significantly a higher percentage callus induction but not green plant regeneration. Proline at 17.4 mM induced green plant regeneration but not callus induction. Addition of 25 mM (NH4)2SO4 is inhibitory. No synergism was observed in the medium between proline and increased NH+ 4 concentration. A total of 1,396 plants were regenerated. Reduction in plant height and percent fertility were observed with increasing radiation dose. The anther culture-derived lines will be screened for salt tolerance and will be evaluated further in the field.
23789304|Two monosomic alien substitution lines (MAS lines, 2n=41=40+5R) of wheat Triticum aestivum L. cv. 'Saratovskaya 29' were used as recipients in the development of inter-varietal substitution lines for chromosomes 5A and 5D. In the MAS lines, chromosomes 5A or 5D of 'Saratovskaya 29' were replaced by homoeologous univalent chromosome 5R of rye Secale cereale L. cv. 'Onokhoiskaya', which bears the Hp marker gene coding for hairy peduncle. The donors included 18 spring and winter wheat varieties. The MAS lines were developed by crossing monosomic lines of 'Saratovskaya 29' for chromosomes 5A and 5D to a wheatrye substitution line of 'Saratovskaya 29' 5R(5D) followed by cytological and morphological selection of plants with chromosome configuration 20II +5RI in metaphase I of pollen mother cells from F1 and F2 plants with slightly hairy peduncles. It was shown that MAS lines could be maintained during long-term propagation (18 generations). Use of MAS lines with the Hp marker gene allows acceleration and abbreviation of cytological analysis and elimination of the probability of 'univalent switch' in the course of the development of substitution lines. The method was applied to the development of 22 'Saratovskaya 29' lines with inter-varietal substitution for chromosomes 5A and 5D. Fourteen and thirteen microsatellite markers located in chromosomes 5A and 5D, respectively, were used to prove the authenticity of the inter-varietal substitution lines. According to these markers, 21 substitution lines from 22 studied were correct.
23786775|A new descriptive method for stability estimation based on genotype's ascending ecological row was proposed. Dynamic meanings of an analyzed agronomic character-dynamic descriptive row and dynamic descriptive statistics were calculated. The proposed statistics estimated stability to the average level and variability of the studied trait. The stability evaluated had. dynamic character. It is genotypically individual and statistically differentiated. The method was illustrated by a numerical example.
90003028|The most significant problems of the agricultural enterprises are the asset deficiency, the capital shortage, the low profitability and the financing problems of current production and development. The subsidies, the favourable credit terms, the European Union sources play an extremely important role in the improvement of financial condition, realization of investments and current assets financing of the farmers. In my survey by means of a questionnaire I analysed the application of agricultural subsidies and borrowing credit in Bks county, besides I studied the changes during the application of subsidies and credits in the last two years, comparing the results of my former analysis in 2006 with the results of my current questionnaire survey.
23784195|A barley crop (Hordeum distichum L., cv. Zita) was grown in sandy loam soil in lysimeters, and exposed to drought either during the vegetative growth stage or during the grain growth stage. The growth rate of grains was calculated for the linear phase of grain growth. For the fully irrigated treatment the growth rates of grains of main shoots and first tillers were 1.74 and 1.70 mg day-1 grain-1, respectively. treatments the daily increase in grain dry matter from all tillers were 21.1 g day-1 m-2. The growth rates of grains from normal shoots of the drought treatments did not differ significantly from those of the fully irrigated treatments. In the humid temperate climate where this investigation was conducted, and for the variety of barley grown in this experiment drought during the grain growth phase did not affect growth rates of grains until all plant available soil water had been utilized.
90003198|Fusarium head blight (FHB) or scab resistance in wheat is a complex quantitative trait. Nearisogenic lines (NILs) carrying single FHB resistance QTL are valuable genetic stocks for genetic analysis and breeding. In previous studies, we mapped type I resistance QTLs against initial penetration and type II QTLs against fungal spread within spikes in the Nanda2419  Wangshuibai RIL population. Using the molecular markers linked to the QTLs, we have developed NILs for four of the FHB resistance QTLs by marker-assisted introgression into the susceptible line Mianyang99-323. Background examination indicated that the recipient genome contents of the NILs have reached over 98% after three generations of backcross. These NILs showed significantly better resistance than the recurrent parent, providing another piece of evidence for successful enhancement of scab resistance by marker-assisted selection.
23783954|Drought is one of the abiotic environmental stress factors that reduces wheat yield worldwide. In our experiment, chromosome addition lines of Agropyron elongatum (Host.) Beauvois to Triticum aestivum L. cv. `Chinese Spring' were tested for drought tolerance in growth chambers in the Martonvsr phytotron by creating three different moisture regimes: E1. fully irrigated control, E2. mid-season water stress (preanthesis), E3. terminal water stress during grain filling. The data were analysed for relative water content (RWC), drought susceptibility index (DSI), multiple selection efficiency (MSE) and general adaptability. Ag. elongatum chromosome 5E is very important in controlling drought tolerance and has shown to be promising for the improvement of wheat yield stability under drought-prone conditions.
23787181|Induction of para-nodules on maize contributed to increase in yield. The nodules on maize (Zea mays L.) cv. Kiran were induced using plant growth regulator 2,4-D (1ppm) in nitrogen free Hoagland solution. Concentrations of 2,4-D greater than 1ppm caused stunting and death, while concentrations less than 1ppm has no obvious effect on seedling growth. The associative symbiosis (using Azospirillum) was noticed in the nodulated and non-nodulated maize plants. The presence of nitrogenase activity (acetylene reduction assay) and leghemoglobin was noticed in the plants treated with Azospirillum either alone or with nodulated plants, but higher activity was noticed in the nodulated Azospirillum treated plants. The 2,4-D induced nodule like structures provided niche for the establishment of the bacteria, thereby enhancing nitrogen fixation in the nodulated roots. These results confirmed the nitrogenase activity of Azospirillum brasilense in association with the 2,4-D induced nodules of maize. After transplanting in the pots, it was noticed that nodulated and Azospirillum treated plants showed higher chlorophyll content in leaf, enhanced NR activity leading to higher yield as compared to controlled plants (non-nodulated). The nodulated plants treated with Azospirillum had higher physiological activities as compared to only Azospirillum treated plants. Thus, the gramineous plants are potentially able to create a symbiosis with diazotropic bacteria, which colonize para-nodule tissue intracellularly, promoting a higher level of N2 fixation for the better growth and development of the plants.
90003133|The aim of this study is to determine the processes of migration and transformation of nutritional in model systems of untouched soils using different amount of organic fertilizers. Investigations shows that the greatest amount of nitrates, nitrites and phosphates was found in the first layer of the soil in 60 days time after application of organic fertilizers. Later concentration in this layer decreases as it increases in the second and the third layers of the soil. However, even in 150 days time after application of organic fertilizers, concentration of nitrates, nitrites and phosphates in the forth and the fifth layers of the soil increases insignificantly. Concentration of ammonium ions was found the greatest in 10 days time after application of organic fertilizers. It was found especially great in the first layer of the soil (11.69 mg l
90002783|The improvement of the range of horticultural crops can give benefits for the customers and producers as well. A tool for these efforts is to involve new species and types of different vegetables. In the case of peppers there are some promising wild or partially domesticated species and types. Two years of experiments in Hungary under cold forcing conditions proved that there are opportunities of growing several types of chile on loamy send soil under greenhose. Different parameters were evaluated such as the time from sowing to the first anthesis, the time from sowing to the full maturity of the first fruit, and the cumulated yield.
90003117|The investigation was carried out in a temperate deciduous forest from snowmelt until peak leafing. Soil respiration was measured in 5 permanent plots (both litter covered and bare) with closed chamber technique. Most important abiotic factors (T
23783072|The influence on grain conditions of meiotic abnormalities present in a hybrid wheat was established through a mitotic analysis performed in the F2 progeny, where an association between aneuploidy and wrinkled grains was found.
23786788|Androgenetic response in two segregating populations (F3 and F4) and their parents ('Ghods' and 6605) was investigated. The F3 and F4 generations were obtained by Single Seed Descent (SSD) in a greenhouse. The experiment consisted of 69 pots, each containing four plants ('Ghods', 6605, F3 and F4). Embryo production, green and albino plants per 100 anthers as well as total plant regeneration per 100 anthers have been determined. The difference between F3 generation and mid-parents was significant and positive for embryo production, green plant regeneration, and total plant regeneration. The difference between F4 generation and mid-parents was positive and significant only for green and total plant regeneration. Heritability estimates were high and important genetic advances based on 10% selection were predicted. The best F3 and F4 plants have produced 329.46 and 492.59 embryos per 100 anthers, and 62.72 and 65.11 green plants per 100 anthers, respectively. As androgenetic traits are highly heritable, so a rapid gain from selection of such F3 or F4 genotypes should be possible.
23792329|Semi-dwarf varieties in wheat associated with gibberellic acid (GA 3 )-insensitive height reducing genes have led to significant increases in yield but often fall below this potential because of poor seedling emergence after deep showing. Alternative semi-dwarf genes may have the potential to reduce plant height without compromising early plant growth. In durum wheat, bulk segregant analysis was used to screen microsatellite markers linked with the GA 3 -sensitive genes Rht14 in cv. Castelporziano, Rht16 in cv. Edmore M1 and Rht18 in cv. Icaro. Molecular marker Xbarc3-6A for Rht14, Rht16 and Rht18 showed significant polymorphic differences among DNA bulks for height classes. The genes Rht14, Rht16 and Rht18 were linked with Xbarc3 (11.7-28.0 cM) on the short arm of chromosome 6A and they appear to be allelic. Semi-dwarf genes on chromosome 6AS may potentially be used in breeding for improved establishment.
90003495|Rural economy in Croatia with its small sized sector of peasant enterprises still stays in the shadow of restructuring of large industrial sector. The slow leading process of privatization, the wandering in the claim to the best solution in agricultural development, absence of consensus about key development priorities, as well as common indicators of backwardness, are only part of gray scale of problems which dented the continue pauperization of wide rural area in Croatia. The Croatian government administration late with implementation of new rural policy measures, which are recommended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999. This act emphasises the balanced development of the countryside alongside the market support measures in the lights of the social and territorial cohesion. It is based on the following principles: recognising the multifunctional role of agriculture, improving competitiveness, ensuring that environmental issues are taken into account, diversifying economic activity, and conserving rural heritage.
23786916|Primitive cultivated wheat, Triticum monococcum, is often viewed as a source of genes to be used in durum and bread wheat breeding programmes. In the present study, two chlorophyll b-deficient mutants of T. monococcum were used to analyze the consequences faced by chlorophyll b-deficient mutation. We assessed inheritance of chlorophyll b-deficient mutants, "purple mutant" and "moegi mutant". Both mutations are determined by different single recessive genes. "Moegi mutant" is one of the chlorina mutations based on light environmental effect on chlorophyll accumulation. A striking difference was found between the wild type and "purple mutant", which had much higher PSII and electron transport rate (ETR) at the given level of absorbed photon irradiance. It can be attributed due to the severe reduction of in PSII antenna size in the absence of LHCII.
23781391|Twenty-two barley populations were tested under eight environments to determine genotype-environment interactions. Eberhart and Russell (1966). Perkins and Jinks (1968) and Freeman and Perkins (1971) models provided similar ranking with respect to both responce (b) and stability (s2d) for most of the traits. Ranking under ecovalence was similar to that of Eberhart a nd Russell model. F2 and/or F3's were more stable and responsive. Different stability mechanisms appeared to beinvolved in the determination of the grain yield stability.
90002761|Based on the new soil acidity determination method a new technology has been developed for the amelioration of acid soils. According to this technology the amount of liming material is equal to the amount of H
23778582|A complete diallel set with reciprocals, of one typical opaque-2 inbred, four modified opaque-2 inbreds and two normal inbred lines of maize (Zea mays L.) was analysed. The inbred lines and the F1-plants were selfed and their kernels classified according to their degree of translucence. We found an expected 3:1 segregation ratio between translucent and non-translucent kernels in the hybrid combination of all opaque-2 and normal inbred lines, with one exception, where a significant deviation from a 3:1 ratio in a cross between a normal line and a modified opaque-2 line was due to an excess of normal kernels. The greatest proportion of the non-translucent kernels of the crosses 'normal  modified opaque-2' exhibited modified endosperm structure. The combinations 'opaque-2  modified opaque-2' and 'modified opaque-2  modified opaque-2' segregated into phenotypes with a high frequency in rating classes within the range of the parent lines. A combining ability analysis revealed that the ratio of the variance of general combining ability to the variance of specific combining ability was 17:1. The opaque-2 lines with the highest degree of modified endosperm structure had the best gca for this character. This indicates that it is possible to identify good combiners for modified endosperm structure already from the phenotype of the inbreds
23781441|Serial lysine determinations were carried out by means of a photometric method based on the specific Storherr-reaction. Comparisons were made with amino acid analyser and the standard differences were eliminated via mathematical calculation. This method is suitable for screening cereals for higher lysine, or in combination with any protein assay for higher lysine/protein ratio.
23786109|Approximately 1000 plants of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L., cv. Nestos) were evaluated in Technological Education Farm of Florina, Greece, during the 1998-99 season, in the absence of competition (1 plant/m2). Grain yield of the individual plants ranged from 1 to 90 g (mean: 30.5 g/plant, and SD = 17.1 g). Ten plants with high yield (51-83 g) and ten plants with low yield (10-23 g) were selected to investigate, whether phenotypic variation of individual plants for grain yield was resulted from genetic variation or not. Carbon isotope discrimination (), considered to be an indirect assessment of water use efficiency, and ash content were determined in grain samples of the selected plants. Statistically significant differences were found for both traits with high yielding plants having higher  values and lower ash content compared to low yielding plants. Yield of individual plants correlated significantly and positively with  values (r=0.65) and negatively with ash content (r=0.43). Negative correlation was also found between  and ash content (r=0.43). These results confirm the existence of genetic variation within cv. Nestos.
23780383|From the results /obtained by a direct injection technique/ that the phytotoxicity of EPTC-sulfone, EPTC and EPTC-sulfoxide to corn is decreasing in this order, and the mixed function oxidase inhibitors piperonyl butoxide and SKF-525A are synergists but glutathione is an antagonist for the toxic action of EPTC on corn it is concluded that a/ sulf-oxidation and glutathione conjugation are equally important for the detoxification of EPTC and, b/ play a key role in the antidote effect, c/ phytoxicity of EPTC to corn is not due to the action of the sulfone and is only partly resulted by the sulfoxide metabolite; and it is suggested that a phytotoxic mechanism of EPTC not involving the sulfoxide exists.
23781343|The hybrid embryos of an otherwise incompatible cross between durum wheat (Triticum durum)  rye (Secale cereale) have been successfully reared in vitro, and triticale plants have been obtained. Placing the embryos on a layer of macerated immature endosperm from the young kernels of durum wheat considerably enhanced their growth and development, whereas the mature endosperm tissue was almost ineffective.
23787073|Progeny R3 of 8 regenerated in in vitro culture durum wheat lines from cultivar Progress were analyzed and compared to the initial genotype for agronomical and physiological traits. The plants were regenerated in culture from mature embryo and immature inflorescences on MS basal medium. The resistance of plants to abiotic stress was estimated through an express method of growth depression of seedlings placed in stress conditions. Significant differences between regenerated plants and controls for both agronomical traits and cold- and drought resistance were found. The coefficient of variation for most traits was higher in population of plants regenerated from immature inflorescences than in that from mature embryos. By cluster analysis was estimated that lines R5, R4 and R3 regenerated in culture from immature inflorescences were the most phenotype and genotype distant from initial genotype.
23781549|The apical meristems of the shoots of barley x rye and barley x wheat hybrids were dissected from lateral five-leafed seedlings and placed on Gamborg medium B-5 containing 2 mg/1 2,4-D. To support callus growth, the initiated callus tissue was transferred on fresh medium of the same composition every 4-5 weeks for 8-12 months. To induce organogenesis, the callus tissue was transferred on Murashige-Skoog medium with 0.1 mg/1 kinetin, 1 mg/1 2,4-D; 0.05 mg/1 IAA or on Gamborg medium without the phytohormones. As a result, 150 regenerated plants were obtained from a single apical meristem.
23789867|Twenty four SSR primer pairs were used to determine the genetic diversity in the subspecies of Aegilops tauschii. All microsatellite markers showed a high level of polymorphism. The average number of alleles observed was relatively similar in subsp. tauschii (9.00) to that in strangulata (8.30). The tauschii group had also similar average PIC value (0.80) with the strangulata group (0.77). The range of similarity was higher in subsp. tauschii than subsp. strangulata, reflecting a higher level of genetic variation in the first subspecies. Cluster and PCO analyses revealed a relative pattern of differentiation between two taxonomic classified subspecies, but there were some exceptional accessions in each group, reflecting possible intermediate forms between these two subspecies. Wide distribution of alleles found in both subspecies can be used for wheat improvement.
23777581|The inheritance of plant height was studied using diallel analysis in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Both numerical and graphical approaches of the diallel and the combining ability analysis revealed that plant height was governed predominantly by additive genetic variance. The character was found to be highly heritable. Diallel analysis, using only the parental and the F1 generations, established the presence of 3 genes of gene groups for plant height and the semidwarf parent Sonora 64 appeared to possess the maximum recessive genes. Dominant genes for tallness were present in the remaining varieties. Sonora 64 also proved to be a good general combiner for semidwarfness. Parental as well as array means were highly correlated with the GCA effects. It was concluded that in order to study the genetic architecture, diallel analysis (Hayman, 1954) is the most informative as well as reliable and less time consuming approach as only the parental and the F1 generations are required.
23788188|Thirty-two Brazilian spring wheats (Triticum aestivum L. em. Thell.) were evaluated for partial resistance to Stagonospora blotch under greenhouse conditions to an isolate of Stagonospora nodorum from the southeastern U.S. Incubation period was shortest (5.6 days) in the susceptible cultivar BR 4 and longest (12.7 days) in the resistant cultivar CEP 14. Latent period was significantly longer for CEP 14 than on any other cultivar except BR 38. Resistant wheats had latent periods that were 3-5 days longer than susceptible lines. Disease severity was negatively correlated (P < 0.01) with incubation period and latent period. Cultivars with long incubation period and long latent period also had a slow rate of disease progress. The widest range of response to S. nodorum infection was for area under the disease progress curve (AUDPC). CEP 14 and BR32 had AUDPC values that were less than 25% of the values of seven cultivars with the highest AUDPC. CEP14 had the longest IP and LP and the lowest AUDPC, exceeding the next closest entry by almost 5% for each parameter. Ratings for components of partial resistance closely paralleled field ratings for resistance in southern Brazil. Because genotypes are generally well-adapted agronomically and responded similarly to an isolate representative of S. nodorum in the southeastern U.S., resistant lines from southern Brazil may be useful in breeding programs in the southern U.S.
90003430|We carried out foliar fertilization trials with copper-tetramine-hydroxide complex compounds on small plots with alluvial Danube soils of high CaCO
23781520|A double disomic wheat rye substitution line with the rye chromosomes 1R and 2R was crossed to winter wheat, spring wheat and 8 winter triticale. The rye chromosomes were found in disomic dose in much higher frequencies in the F2 of the cross to 8 triticale compared to the crosses to bread wheat. The cross of wheat-rye substitution lines to 8 triticale is recommended when the substitution has a low transmisson rate and is unbalanced.
23787218|Preharvest sprouting of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is affected greatly by conditions after ripening, but effects of conditions during maturation are not clear. The objective of this research was to ascertain the effects of drought and high temperature during maturation on susceptibility of wheat to preharvest sprouting after ripening. 'Betty' hard white winter wheat was grown at 25/20 C day/night until anthesis, when plants were subjected to no drought (field moisture capacity) and drought (1.7 MPa leaf water potential) at 15/10, 22.5/17.5, and 30/25 C until physiological maturity. Drought had little effect, but high temperature reduced all yield components. Neither stress affected -amylase enzyme, but high temperature increased polyphenol oxidase enzyme, probably by increasing the proportion of bran in kernels. Grain protein percentage and SDS sedimentation were highest at the intermediate temperature. The germination promptness index of the grain, a measure of the rate and magnitude of sprouting, was increased by drought and unaffected by temperature. We concluded that drought during maturation increased susceptibility of wheat to preharvest sprouting, and high temperature reduced yield and might reduce quality of grain for noodles by increasing activity of polyphenol oxidase enzyme.
23784203|Multiple range tests (MRT) were designed for comparing three or more treatments to determine which treatments are statistically different. However, MRT procedures are frequently misused by crop science researchers in their comparisons of means. The objective of this paper was to describe some of the common misuses of MRT procedures, and to suggest more appropriate methods of analysis. Misuses addressed included: (i) comparison of two means; (ii) comparison of treatments which are factorial; and, (iii) comparison of several levels of a quantitative factor. Applying appropriate alternative methods demonstrated that these are more concise, efficient, and increased the information obtained from the data compared to the MRT procedures. These results suggest that using the proper statistical analyses will substantially improve the interpretation of agricultural experiments.
23790023|The western corn rootworm (WCR, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte) is one of the most important maize pests, and was introduced to Slovenia in 2003 by natural spread from both the East and West. In Slovenia, as in other European countries, different patterns of spread and population growth of the WCR have been observed in maize growing areas, depending on the density of maize fields in the area and the frequency of maize in the crop rotation. In this study, the spread, population growth and impact on agriculture practice of the WCR have been analysed using GIS tools. In the period from 2003 to 2007, the spread and population growth were observed to be different between western and eastern Slovenia due to differences in population pressure from neighbouring areas and the portion of maize in the area. In the West, the distribution and prevalence of WCR has remained approximately unchanged since the first year of introduction, while in the East, both spread and population growth have become more progressive. However, both parameters showed only moderate progress up to 2006, while in 2007, conditions became more favourable for WCR development and spread. Spread was influenced significantly, although there were only 45 captured imagos per positive PAL pheromone trap per year after 4 years of presence, on average. Moderate growth of the WCR population was a consequence of the implementation of area-wide containment measures in a delimited area, which resulted in a considerable decrease of monoculture maize growth. This altered pattern of agricultural practice was confirmed with GIS analysis in areas that were demarcated in 2004 and 2005. In the maize growing area in the East, the portion of area under monocultural maize cultivation decreased from 28% to 5% in demarcated areas of WCR from 2004 and 2005, and decreased from 18% to 2% in 2007. In the area demarcated in 2004 in the West, the portion of monocultural maize is decreased in 2007 to only 3%, compared with 34% in 2003. Obviously Slovenian farmers have followed the legislation to a great extent and adopted crop rotation as the main WCR control measure. Implementation of area-wide containment measures from the first year of WCR infestation resulted in slower population growth and expansion.
90002801|Interrelations between NPK nutrients and precipitation were evaluated from 1971 to 2003 using pea as an indicator plant in a long-term fertilization experiment (code: OMTK A-17) was set up on calcareous chernozem soil in Nagyhrcsk in autumn 1967. In the average year the yield on control plots was 2.4 t ha
23792331|Fusarium head blight (FHB) is a serious problem in many wheat-growing areas worldwide. The breeding and cultivation of resistant wheat cultivars is the most promising strategy to reduce the risk of FHB. We report on the comparison of 20 Canadian and 20 European genotypes for FHB response and associated traits (deoxynivalenol content, Fusarium damaged kernels, plant height, heading date) in multi-environmental field trials in Canada and Germany after artificial inoculation with Fusarium culmorum (Germany) / F. graminearum (Canada). Our study revealed Canadian and European wheat lines that were stable in performance across countries and which therefore appear as valuable FHB resistance donors in Canadian as well as in German wheat breeding programs to further improve the resistance level of wheat cultivars against FHB.
90003392|The appearance of corn rootworm is one of the greatest plant protection challenges that European maize production has faced in its 500-year history. Since the first specimens were caught in 1992, the pest is to be found on all the major maize-producing areas. In several regions the damage it causes has reached the threshold of economic loss, making it the most problematic of all the biotic and abiotic stress factors faced by maize growers. The aim of the research was to determine the level of corn rootworm tolerance in various maize genotypes and to use selection methods to breed maize hybrids whose tolerance level provided satisfactory protection against this biotic stress factor. The present paper describes studies on the tolerance level of 43 Martonvsr hybrids at three locations in two years and that of the parental lines at two locations in one year. Significant differences were found in the tolerance levels of the hybrids, and a close positive correlation was revealed between root-pull resistance and yield, while there was a close negative correlation between root lodging and yield and between root-pull resistance and lodging. Root regeneration is also an important factor, good values of which were found for three hybrids. Inbred lines had smaller root diameter and lower root pull resistance than hybrids. The heterosis on root diameter was 140 %, while in case of root pull resistance the heterosis is 123 %.
90003222|
               
23780335|Earlier studies on the inheritance of plant height in rice largely dealt with short and tall stature types indicating single genes involved. This study is one of the few investigations that also involve deep-water (very-tall) types. In all crosses between short  tall and short  very-tall, the height frequency curve in F2 showed a more or less pronounced depression dividing the population into a short and a tall/tall to very-tall class that fit a 3:1 ratio. The F2 frequency curve for tall  very-tall was unimodal indicating a typical polygenic inheritance. Tall and very-tall stature is dominant over short, the latter type being controlled by one major gene. All F2 height distribution curves showed transgressive segregation and especially in crosses with very-tall types, minor adjustments in plant height can easily be selected for.
23783930|For the development of saturated linkage maps of plants, it is necessary to get as many informative probes as possible. By using, the methylation sensitive restriction enzyme PstI, we developed a library of single/low-copy DNA sequences of rye. A total of 180 clones were selected, 12 sequences were located on rye and wheat chromosomes and two of them were mapped with respect to known RFLP markers on chromosomes 5R and 7R.
23789873|In the presne study, correlations between wet gluten content, valorigraphic value and alveographic parameters (P,L,P/L,G,W) of winter wheat varieties were investigated as influenced by fertilizer and fertilizer + fungicide treatment in the years 2001 and 2002. Various correlation analyses (Pearson correlation, principal component analysis, cluster analysis, stepwise regression) evidenced that alveographic W primarily was closely related with valorigraphic value. The correlation was not close enough to allow us to estimate the alveographic W parameter on valorigraph as precisely as it is demanded by industry and trade. There was no strong correlation between wet gluten content and any other parameters involved in the study.
23782737|Spaghetti and other pastas have been successfully prepared from barley (Hordeum vulgare) flour; however, dark color decreases acceptability. Flour from a series of barley cultivars derived from Betzes (C.I. 6398) was bleached by two methods before preparation into spaghetti. Flour color was measured objectively and pastas were evaluated organoleptically for bleach effectiveness and influence on flavor. Genetic characteristics of the barleys examined were the following: nude, waxy, fractured starch and short-awned. The nude characteristic was associated with the darkest color before bleaching, and the dark color was less pronounced when in combination with waxy and short-awned traits. Cultivars varied in their response to bleach. Chlorine and benzoyl peroxide were both effective in color improvement and neither bleaching method had an influence on flavor. The presence of one or more mutant genetic characteristics in barley influences color of flour for pasta products and alters response to bleaching.
23786929|All maize inbreds have been classified into heterotic groups based on pedigree information or combining ability. The Lancaster Sure Crop and BSSS heterotic groups are the most commonly used heterotic pair to developing commercial maize hybrids in central and southern Europe. One of the best middle late hybrids was that between B73 (BSSS) and Mo17 (Lancaster). In the present study, we analyzed the means of test cross grain yield, grain yield per se, ear length, number of grain rows, grain mass, cob diameter, kernal length, kernal width and stem rot of 19 maize inbreds derived from Mo17 family. The Mo 17 derivative inbreds are characterized by divergence of all the above traits. Two of the 19 inbreds crossed with the B73-type inbred tester 568 had significantly higher grain yield (P<0.05) than the standard hybrid B73xMo17. Germplasm unrelated to Mo17 one, namely that originating from the domestic populations Vukovarski Zuti zuban and Zuti zuban, as well as that from the public-domain line N152 brought to the Mo17 family a longer ear, a larger number of grain rows per ear and a higher potential for grain yield per se and in test crosses with B73 inbred line relative to Mo17.
90002880|In 1993, the cultivable land was estimated at 5,94 million ha, or 32 % of the total area of the country. The cultivated land was estimated at 4,94 million ha, which is 83% of the cultivable area. Of this area, 4,27 million ha consisted of annual crops and 0,67 million ha consisted of permanent crops. In 1993, agriculture employed around 22,5% of the total labour force, accounted for nearly 28% of GDP and 60% of non-oil exports. The
23783922|The effect of weather and precipitation on maize yield has been examined by analyzing 14 years of yield of the hybrid Pioneer 3732 SC. Years have been characterized by climatic parameters. Precipitation from the harvesting of pre-crop till the sowing of maize and that during the growing season, and the average monthly temperatures during the growing season and the average temperature for the entire growing season have been analyzed. The dependent variables used were the grain yields of 1-hectare fertilized and unfertilized treatments. Upon examining the correlation between the factors the precipitation during the growing season and the average monthly temperatures were found to be (weekly) negatively correlated. The average temperature of the growing season and the grain yield are negatively correlated. At the same time the precipitation both from the harvesting of the precrop till the sowing and that during the growing season are positively correlated with the grain yield. The grain yield response to 1 mm of winter precipitation was 29 kg, and to the precipitation of the growing season it was 18 kg, on average the grain yield response was 23 kg ha1. It results in 39.8 kg ha1 dry matter with 15 % grain moisture content and 50 % harvest-index. Consequently during the 14 years on average 251 g precipitation was available for the production of 1 g dry matter (DM).
23789306|The effectiveness of Cu2+ accumulation was investigated in three wheat cultivars with different copper sensitivity (Triticum aestivum cv. GK Tiszatj, GK Kata and GK thalom). Supraoptimal Cu2+ concentrations result in toxicity symptoms in the sensitive genotype and increase the production of the stress hormone, ethylene both in the leaves and root tissues of wheat seedlings. The sensitive cultivar, cv. thalom produced less ethylene than the tolerant genotypes (cvs Tiszatj and Kata) in the roots whether the ethylene measurements were done over the 6-h period after Cu2+ exposure. Levels of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), the immediate precursor of ethylene, did not change characteristically during this period in either the tolerant or sensitive seedlings. The biosynthesis of ethylene has a common intermediate, S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) with the synthesis of the polyamine spermidine and 2 -deoxymugineic acid, a Fe3+-solubilizing and transporting wheat phytosiderophore. These chelating substances also mediate the transport of different bivalent cations, such as Cu2+. The biosynthetic pathways of ethylene and polyamines, spermidine and spermine may compete for SAM with the phytosiderophore synthesis. Simultaneous inhibition of SAM decarboxylase by 0.5 M methylglyoxal bis(guanylhydrazone) (MGBG), and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid synthase by 10 M (2-aminoethoxy-vinyl)glycine (AVG), significantly increased the Cu2+ accumulation in root tissues of the wheat cultivars independently of their sensitivities. MGBG alone resulted in an enhanced copper content but AVG proved to be ineffective. This suggests that the amount of SAM allocated for polyamine formation may limit the phytosiderophore synthesis or spermidine (spermine) in itself may control the uptake of Cu2+.
23787296|Genetic manipulation may not replace any conventional method in crop breeding programs, it can be an important adjunct to them. Plant regeneration via tissue culture is becoming increasingly more common in monocots such as corn (Zea mays L.). In vitro culturability and regeneration ability of corn decreased as homozigosity increased, which suggested that these two attributes were controlled primarily by dominant gene action. Pollen (gametophytic) selection for resistance to aflatoxin in corn can greatly facilitate recurrent selection and screening of germplasm for resistance at a much less cost and shorter time than field testing. Integration of in vivo and in vitro techniques in maize breeding program has been developed to obtain desirable agronomic attributes, speed up the breeding process and enhance the genes responsible for them. The efficiency of anther and tissue cultures in most cereals such as maize and wheat have reached the stage where it can be used in breeding programs to some extent and many new cultivars produced by genetic manipulation have now reached the market.
90003141|The aim of this experiment was the evaluation of the rumen degradation kinetics of the dry matter (DM) and crude protein (CP) of grass-clover silage harvested at three phenological stages of grass-clover mixture. Samples were collected from cultivated grass-clover plots established in Zagreb (Croatia) in 2002. The kinetics of degradation of dry matter and crude protein was determined by the technique of nylon bags using 4 Charolais sheep provided with a rumen cannula. Significant differences (P<0,01) were obtained among phenological stages in rapidly soluble and potentially degradable fractions, degradation rates of DM and CP and in the effective degradability (ED) of DM and CP.
23787241|In the course of broomcorn, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench breeding (1) plant characters (plant height, panicle excertion from the point of view of harvesting, the idea of combined use of the plant, and earliness), (2) panicle characters (yield, defective brush types, fiber length, fiber fineness, number of fibers per panicle, fiber appearance and fiber colour) as well as (3) seed characters are considered. Special attention is payed to (4) breeding of hybrid cultivars (using male sterility) and (5) disease resistance.
23785235|Experimental evidences exist, showing that wheat seeded at a rate as low as 5 kg seed/ha can yield as much grain as the conventional seeding rate (150-200 kg seed/ha). Some mexican wheat growers are reducing the seeding rate down to 40 kg seed/ha, since this reduction does not affect grain yield. In this work the advanced hypothesis was that wheat grown with lower seeding rate requires less fertilizer. The objective was to assess the seeding rate x fertilization interaction and the optimum fertilization for low seeding rate wheat planting. Three experiments were conducted at the Yaqui Valley Experiment Station, Sonora, Mexico, with spring wheat cv. Rayon F79 in an aridisol calcium ortid soil. The first experiment included five levels of nitrogen (0, 50, 100, 150 and 200 kg/ha) and five levels of plant population (20, 40, 80, 160 and 320 thousand plants/ha). Second and third experiments included five levels of N (0, 60, 120, 180 and 240 kg/ha), and five levels of P (0, 30, 60, 90 and 120 kg/ha), at two levels of seeding rate (120 and 4 kg/ha). A negative seeding rate x fertilization interaction was obtained indicating that nitrogen can not be reduced in low seeding rate planting. Physiologic optimum for nitrogen application was similar in low and high seeding rate planting (180 kg N/ha).
23786096|Seven good agronomic wheat varieties lacking Karnal bunt tolerance were crossed with two Karnal bunt tolerant varieties. The F1 plants from these crosses were crossed with diverse maize lines. Immediately after pollination solution containing 2,4-D (50mg/l) + GA3 (100mg/l) was injected into upper most node. After 24 hours florets of the pollinated spikes were flooded with same solution. The pollinated spikes were harvested 13 to 16 days post pollination and were taken for rescuing embryos. Rescued embryos were used to obtain callus as well as direct plant embryogenesis. The haploid plantlets and the embryoids of haploid calli were converted to double haploids (DH) using colchicine. For DH production the direct germination of rescued embryos followed by colchicine treatment of haploid plantlets figured to be more efficient method than obtaining plant via haploid callus
90002997|In field trials with four spring barley cultivars (Astor, Fran, Matej and Scarlett) during four years (2004-2007) at two localities (Osijek and Nova Gradiska) researches of grain yield, hectoliter weight, protein and starch content, extract content, friability of malt, Kolbach index and malt viscosity were carried out. Cultivar Matej (5.535 t ha
23781476|Using the Giemsa C-banding technique the morphology and linear C-band differentiation, of Triticum aestivum L. cv "Chinese Spring" chromosomes was studied during mitotic metaphase. An idiogram showing Giemsa C-bands was constructed with the primary objective of elucidating the discrepancies between C-bands in previously published idiograms of "Chinese Spring". A number of minor as well as major differences were observed and these are indicated and briefly discussed.
90003388|Tan spot (
90002937|To gain more detailed information on the dynamics of CO
23787201|To locate the genes controlling drought tolerance and screening quantitative indices of drought tolerance, wheat substitution lines of Cheyenne (Donor) in the genetic background of Chinese Spring (Recipient) were tested in a completely randomized block design with three replications under two different water regimes (irrigated and rainfed) in the Agricultural Research Station of College of Agriculture, Razi University. Based on the yield potential (Yp) and stress yield (YS) quantitative criteria of drought tolerance such as: mean productivity (MP), tolerance index (TOL), geometric mean productivity (MP), stress susceptibility index (SSI) and stress tolerance index (STI) were calculated. The results of analysis of variance exhibited highly significant differences between the lines for Yp,Ys and yield components indicating the presence of genetic variation and possible chromosomal localization of the genes controlling the traits investigated. Mean comparison revealed that most of the genes controlling yield and yield components in the rainfed condition are located on chromosomes 4A, 7A, 2D, 5D and 6D. Correlation analysis indicated that the most suitable drought tolerance criteria for screening substitution lines were MP, GMP and STI. Three-dimensional and multivariate biplot display resulted from principal component analysis showed that most of the genes controlling quantitative criteria of drought tolerance are located on chromosomes 7A, 1B, 2D, 4D and 6D.
23782931|Crosses between Hail wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), a nodding spiked type, and two erect-spiked wheats, Sandy and C0810005, were made to evaluate the mode of inheritance of spike nodding and the association among spike characteristics. One-, two-, and three-gene models were inadequate in describing the inheritance of spike type in both crosses. High broad-sense and low narrow-sense heritability estimates suggest dominance gene action for nodding. Heritability estimates for spike type at anthesis were larger than those at harvest in the Hail by Sandy cross, suggesting environmental influence on spike type over time. Path-coefficient analyses of the F2 population of the Hail by Sandy cross determined that spike length was the major contributor to spike type.
90002689|Oats (
23789882|North West Himalaya Region of India faces serious shortage of green fodder up to 60 percent, particularly in winter months of November to March. Possibility of augmenting green fodder availability from cultivated lands, which is very limited (10% of geographical area) is explored by cultivation of dual purpose wheat, providing green fodder a part from grain production. Influence of wheat variation and their cutting schedule on fodder and grain yield were studied. Selected wheat varieties included VL Gehun 829, VL Gehun 616 and advance lines of VL 818 and VL 840, respectively. Significantly higher green fodder yield (69.32 q/ha) was obtained from VL 818 than under VL Gehun 616 and VL Gehun 829, while it was at per with fodder yield of VL 840. Cutting of green fodder scheduled at 70 and 85 DAS resulted no significant difference in yield. However, it showed the possibility of extended availability of green fodder without affecting the production the grain and straw yield obtained under VL Gehun 829 (60.05 q and 121.5 q/ha, respectively) were statistically superior to VL Gehun 616 and VL 818 and at par with VL 840. Harvest of green fodder affected grain yield of wheat up to 7% through it was not statistically significant. Therefore, it can be concluded that among the different cultivar VL Gehun 829 and VL 840 are the most suitable for dual purpose and can be cut after 70 and 85 DAS for green fodder as both stage of cut produced at par green fodder, grain and straw yields, thereby ensuring fodder and food security in the region.
23781524|Six winter wheat varieties were tested at five nutrient levels /O, 100, 300, 500, 700 kg NPK/ha/ with and without irrigation. Using the standard method to determine the germinating ability the seed was found to be good in each case. On the other hand the stress vigour test we used showed significant year and treatment interaction. The seed of most varieties had the highest biological value at the 300-500 kg nutrient level. Among the varieties studied the vigour of Mv 4 and Mv 10 was not satisfactory in certain treatments, however this was improved by optimal fertilizer rates. Mv 8 and Mv 9 was affected the least by the treatments. The responses of the varieties to the treatments were significant.
90003466|Interest in the soil profile water motion is concentrated upon problems related to preservation of the optimum unsaturated soil layer water content for use through plants. Relevant input data for solving of water transport in the soil are hydrophysical characteristics, among others. Saturated hydraulic conductivity is a critical value for soil water regime. Objective of this study is to compare values of hydraulic conductivity estimated by two methods based on the in situ measurement techniques (by Guelph permeameter - K
90002861|In Hungary irrigation is indispensable in modern agricultural production because of Hungarys continental climate and the uneven and few amount of rainwater. The water channelled to the fields in time and to the right place can increase the quality as well as the quantity of agricultural products. As a result of interrogation also we can observe favourable changes in the structure of the soil. One of the basic aims of irrigation is to improve the food supply of the ever increasing population. In Hungary the size of the territory authorized for irrigation is about 200 thousand hectare, about 5% of the cultivated area, but the watered area in reality is about half of that, depending on year it happens. 80% of the irrigated areas can be found in Hajd-Bihar, Jsz-Nagykun-Szolnok, Bks, Csongrd and Bcs-Kiskun counties. About two-thirds of irrigation water is provided by water works such as ones in Tiszalk, Kiskre, the barrage in Bksszentandrs and their sub-canals such as ones called Eastern-, Western-, and Nagykunsgi main canal.
90003053|Sunflower production has become the most important industrial crop in Hungary in the last decade. The planting area of sunflower has gone up very rapidly (in 2007 it was 530 thousand ha). In the last decade the hibrid-sortiment of sunflower improved both in quantity (number of hybrids) and in quality (yield-ability, agronomic traits etc) in Hungary. It is very important for the agronomic and economic efficiency of sunflower production that we could select the best hybrids to special ecological and agrotechnical conditions. From 2001 to 2006 1 early, 2 medium-ripening and 1human consumption varieties in Hajdsg on chernozem soil were tested. Our scientific results proved that there are fairly big differences among cropyears and sunflower hybrids concerning the yields (in 2001 year 2899-4264 kg/ha, in 2004 year 2791-3968 kg/ha. We trust that these results of our test will be useful in helping farmers to choose the best up-to-date varieties for their purposes from the ever widening choice available.
23789856|The effect of rainfall on crop fertilization factors, such as macronutrients and yield, were studied during a long-term field experiment on a calcareous sandy soil with low humus content in North Hungary at the rbottyn Experimental Station of Research Institute for Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences from 1961 to 2004. At the time of the set-up of the experiment, in 1959, the soil's ploughed layer had the following characteristics: pH(H2O): 7.57.8, pH(KCI): 6.97.1, humus content: 0.61.0%, clay content: 5%, CaCO3 content: 37%, AL soluble P2O5 and K2O content: 4060 and 50100 mg kg1. The experiment included ten treatments in five replications, giving a total of 50 plots (35 m2 each) arranged in a Latin square design. From the 1st to the 25th year the fertilization rates were 0, 50 and 100 N kg  ha1  year1; 0 and 54 kg P2O5 ha1  year1; 0 and 80 kg K2O ha1  year1 and their combinations. From the 26th year on these rates were 0 and 120 kg N ha1  year1; 0, 60 and 120 kg P2O5 ha1  year1 and 0, 60 and 120 kg K2O ha1  year1 and their combinations. The major findings can be summarised as follows. At average rainfall years on the control plots without any mineral fertilization the rye yield in monoculture stabilised at a level of around 0.8 t  ha1 (Table 3). The yield doubled (1.81.9 t  ha1) in the N, NP and NK treatments while the full NPK doses gave the maximum yield of 2.1 t  ha1 significantly (mean: 1.7 t  ha1). Without mineral fertilization on the control plots in droughty and dry years yields of 0.7 t  ha1 and 0.8 t  ha1 were harvested. This was a 13% yield reduction in droughty years as compared with an average year. Yield depressions of 33, 16, 21 and 20% were caused by drought (dry and droughty years) in the N, NP, NK and NPK treatments. In wet year the yield was 0.9 t  ha1 in the control plots, representing a yield grown of 12.5% compared with average years (0.8 t  ha1). In the case of N, NP, NK nutrition the increase in the harvested main yield was 43.1% while NPK treatments led to yield increment of 36.9% only. In the very wet years the rye yield declined even more than in case of drought. The unfertilised plots yielded 25% less than in the average years. In the case of unfavourable nutrition (N, NP, NK) the decrease in the main grain yield was 32.8% and in the case of NKP plots the negative effects was 26.2%. Rye in monoculture has approx. 29.4% less tolerance of very wet years than to dry. This yield depression is in line of Mrton et al. (2007) statement whereas the over-wet conditions could be resulted oxygen deficiency in the crop's root zone. Depending on the nutrient supplies, significant quadratic correlations were observed between the rainfall quantity and the yield (Control: R=0.7489***, N: R=0.8974***, NP: R=0.8020***, NK: R=0.7370***, NPK: R=0.9047***, mean R2=0.8180; 66.9%) during the vegetation period. The increase in grain yield per mm rainfall ranged from 3.0 to 6.4 kg ha1 in the case of optimum rainfall supplies, while the quantity of rainfall during the vegetation period required for the production of 1 kg air-dry yield ranged from 1529 to 3360 litres in the case of maximum yield. Based on the meteorological database for the 44 years of the long-term experiment (19612004) the frequency of years in which the rainfall was optimum for various levels of nutrient supply was as follows: control: 2%, N: 7%, NP: 7%, NK: 9%, NPK: 7%, giving an average of 6% over the treatments. This suggests that the occurrence of optimum rainfall supplies and the possibility of achieving optimum yields in the rye production will decline in the future. Under two different arable site plant ecological conditions (rainfall quantity, NPK fertilization) the yield average of rye in monoculture on calcareous sandy soil (rbottyn) was 86% less than that achieved in a biculture (rye and potato) on acidic sandy soil (Nyrlugos).
90002909|Immature embryos of field-origin were cultured following an
23779103|Stomatal number is of fundamental biological interest and has been reported to be associated with drought tolerance. Several factors appear to influence stomatal number: environment, intraplant variation (specific leaf, adaxial vs. abaxial surface, and position on the leaf surface), and genetic effects. Stomatal numbers of the leaves of 10 plants of each of 12 cultivars of spring wheat, Triticum-aestivum L., were scored for both greenhouse and field-grown plants at Bozeman, Montana. Six random microscopic fields in the middle position on both surfaces of the leaf immediately below the flag leaf were scored. Fewer stomata occurred on leaves of plants grown in the greenhouse than on those grown in the field, more stomata occurred on upper than on lower leaf surfaces, and cultivar means varied significantly in stomatal number. However, a significant interaction between environment and cultivars, together with significant variation among plants within a cultivar, suggests that breeding for stomatal number would be difficult.
23789800|The effects of Mycosphaerella graminicola, the causal agent of Septoria tritici blotch of wheat on the content and quality of storage proteins were studied. Field research was undertaken by comparing plots with and without artificial inoculation. Twenty-one Syrian cultivars, 11 (Triticum aestivum L.) and 10 (T. turgidum var. durum Desf.) were used in this study. The results show high differences in the susceptibility levels among cultivars which were subsequently divided into four groups: resistant, moderately resistant, moderately susceptible and highly susceptible. Results also showed that protein content decreased significantly in severely infected cultivars. However, the disease did not affect the protein quality using both A-PAGE and SDS-PAGE techniques.
23779170|The optimal sample size for determining seed weight of oats was found to be 100. With a ratio of cost per plot to cost per sample of 7:33, the optimal number of samples per plot and replicates per experiment were found to be three and one, respectively, but for practical reasons, oat seed weights should be taken from two replicates and one sample per plot.
23789997|Barley is more sensitive than the other major cereal crops to aluminium (Al) toxicity. Here, a doubled haploid mapping population was exploited to study the inheritance of Al tolerance in barley. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping was based on a genetic map constructed with genic markers. Al tolerance QTL were identified on chromosomes 2H, 3H and 4H. A sequence homology search was used to derive the putative function of the genes linked to the QTL, in order to identify potential candidate genes for Al tolerance. Some of these candidates are implicated in stress/defence responses, in particular, stress signal transduction, transcription regulation factors and cell metabolism.
90002731|Three pot experiments in greenhouses were set up in 1993-94-95 in the same condition (soil, fertiliser, soil moisture, maize hybrids) at Keszthely, Hungary. The effect of N fertiliser treatment (control, KNO
23782857|Severa; wheat cultivars from Argentina were compared for their nitrate reductase activities (NRA) in the field, in the greenhouse and in a growth cabinet. Measurements in the field and in controlled conditions showed significant but not consistent differences in NRA, but when leaves were assayed for their ``potential'' activity all differences dissapeared. Also, no differences could be detected in the root NRA. It is concluded that there are no genetic differences in the nitrate reductase activity among the compared Argentine wheat cultivars, whether they contain or not mexican germoplasm.
23782809|In wheat, genes controlling interspecific crossability and chromosome pairing have been located on the same chromosomes suggesting a possible common genetic control. To examine this hypothesis wheat genotypes and wheat x rye hybrids segregating for allelic differences at the crossability locus, Kr1 on chromosome 5B, were examined for frequencies of meiotic chromosome pairing. In these materials no relationship between crossability and pairing could be established. The wheat x rye hybrids, however, appeared to be segregating for a factors(s) independent of the locus Kr1 affecting the level of pairing. The implications of these results are discussed.
90002962|To determine the optimal sowing density and fungicide application for rapeseed crops in the agroecological conditions of north-western Croatia, exact micro-trials were set up at the experimental facility of the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb in the period 2005-2007.
90003415|Many agronomical features of winter wheat have molecular markers which may accelerate the selection process significantly. However, the stability of yield or rheological parameters as polygenic attributes cannot be approached simply by the MAS (marker assisted selection) technique. The use of multi-location trials is a more practicable way and provides the first possibility to describe the adaptability of the advanced lines after their 6-8-year-long breeding procedures. In 2008, 57 wheat lines were tested in an experimental network at nine growing locations representatively. The abiotic and biotic stress factors like drought, nutrient deficiency, soil acidity or pathogen pressure affecting heavily these important agronomic parameters were different over locations. Yield, TKW (thousand kernel weight) were weighed, and wet gluten, protein content and hardness index of seed samples from each location were measured by NIR (near-infrared) method on intact seeds. The data were evaluated by different statistical methods. Variance analyses, mainly the dispersion along the series of the location were an effective way to characterize the adaptability of wheat lines. Cluster analysis was efficient to identify the similarity of flexible lines or similar locations, respectively. The statistical quantity of the locations and their diverse growing conditions allowed to measure and predict the yielding stability of each wheat line related to their tolerance to different stress factors. The main goal of the rough quantity screening was similar and could make easy to identify genotypes with fluctuating parameters. This experimental network decisively contributed to register seven new candidate genotypes in the Hungarian state variety experiments in 2008.
23789804|Protein concentration and composition varies in different part of the wheat grain and also in different mill streams. This investigation aimed at determining protein concentration, composition and disulfide crosslinkings in different wheat flour mill streams. Flour mill streams were obtained by milling grains of two Slovakian bread wheat cultivars in a Brabender Quadromat Senior test mill. Protein concentration, amount of protein groups, amount and size distribution of polymeric and monomeric proteins, free thiol groups and disulfide crosslinkings were measured. The results showed that the break flour contained high amounts of gliadins and glutenin subunits, SDS-extractable large polymeric proteins and disulfide crosslinkings. The shorts contained high amounts of SDS-extractable and SDS-unextractable smaller monomeric proteins, SDS-unextractable larger monomeric proteins and free thiol groups. The bran contained high protein concentration, high amounts of high-molecular-weight glutenin subunits, SDS-extractable and SDS-unextractable smaller monomeric proteins and SDS-unextractable larger monomeric proteins.
90002712|Decline of soil organic matter and soil biodiversity are among the eight threats defined in the 2002 Communication Towards a Thematic Strategy on Soil Protection by the EC. In the frame of the ENVASSO (Environmental Assessment of Soil for Monitoring) Project, that targeted the development of the principles of a harmonized European monitoring system,
23780334|Mean performance, variability and interrelationships among NPR (the ratio grain yield:area of upper two leaves), grain yield and various agronomic characters were studied in a complete diallel of 5 spring wheat varieties and 20 F1 crosses. Great average heterosis and nonadditivity was found for grain yield and 100-grain weight, while additive gene action appears to be particularly important in determining plant height, spikelet number per spike and grain number per spikelet. NPR values were positively correlated with number of grains per spikelet and grain weight, which is in accordance with genetical conditions for achieving high grain yields. The selection for high NPR may lead to elimination of ecologically unsuitable types with excessive leaf area or an extreme amount of tillering. Whether grain leaf ratio is a genetically controlled character to the extent detected in certain varieties (for example in Siete Cerros) or whether environmental factors are predominant, needs further research.
90003114|The aim of the research project was to assess the long-term impacts of elevated air CO
23782826|Incidence of wheat scab caused by Fusarium graminearum Schwabe was lower where the fertilizer nitrogen source was urea ratherthan ammonium nitrate.
23777684|A complete diallel set with reciprocals, of five opaque-2 inbreds, four of them with modified endosperm structure, and of two normal inbred lines of maize (Zea mays L.) was analysed for protein and lysine content and yield of kernels, of protein, and of lysine per ear. The average lysine content of translucent kernels from segregating ears of selfeld hybrid combinations amounted to 2.6 %, whereas that of the modified opaque-2 and typically soft opaque-2 kernels ranged from 3.6 to 3.9 % lysine in protein. Thus, the modifying factors interacting with the opaque-2 allele and having a large effect on the endosperm structure, only exerted a small influence on the lysine content of the kernel. The yield of kernels per ear did not differ significantly between 'normal  normal', 'normal  opaque-2' and 'opaque-2  opaque-2' hybrid combinations, but the latter ones had the lowest protein yield and the highest lysine yield per ear. On the average, only a small deviation of less than 9 % of the hybrid performance from mid-parent values was observed for protein and lysine content. Within the combinations of opaque-2 inbreds with modified endosperm structure, all hybrids had more than 3.5 % lysine in protein and more than 0.4 % lysine in dry matter. The lysine content in protein was not significantly correlated with translucence ratings or with protein within the combinations being homozygous for the opaque-2 allele. A combining ability analysis showed that the ratio of the variance of gca to that of sca was 6:1 for protein content and for lysine content in dry matter, but 1:1 for lysine content in protein.
23783924|Various internodes in sweet corn (Zea mays L.) stalks at fresh market harvest exhibit different stages of senescence. This study was conducted to determine if internode senescence is an indicator of mineral content in internodes. On 2, 19, and 30 April and 14 May, 1993, seeds of standard sugary (su), sugary enhancer (heterozygous, Sese; homozygous, sese), and shrunken2 (sh2) sweet corn cultivars were sown at Lane, Okla., in a Bernow fine-loamy (siliceous, thermic Glossic Paleudalf) soil. At fresh market harvest senescence rating and amounts of Kjeldahl nitrogen (N), NO3, NO2, total phosphorus (P), HPO42, K+, SO42, Ca+2, Fe+1, Mn+1, Mg+2 and Na+1 in internodes near the base of the stalk, subtending the ear, and between the ear node and the tassel were determined. Senescence ratings were higher with later planting dates and internodes were higher on the stalk. Senescence ratings were different for genotypes. About 0.3% of N was NO2 and NO3, and about 30% of P was HPO42. Nitrogen and Na+1 content decreased with delayed planting date. Lowest total P and highest K+ contents were in plants sown on 30 April. Content of total N was not changed, total P increased, and those of K+ and Na+1 decreased as internodes were higher on the stalk. Contents of total N, total P 'and K+ were significantly different for genotypes. Mineral contents were not significantly correlated with senescence ratings in internodes.
23790297|A quick and reproducible tool for cultivar identification is useful to assess in certified seed production programs and to resolve legal conflicts. Simple Sequence Repeats (SSRs) have been the elected markers to carry out cultivar identification studies. The main aim of this research was to define the minimum number of SSR markers to distinguish 80 durum wheat cultivars. Preliminary, an analysis of 11 SSRs informativeness was carried out on a subset of 28 durum wheat cultivars. The discriminating ability of each primer was estimated both with Polymorphism Information Content (PIC) and with Resolving power (Rp). Rp resulted the best parameter for assessing the discriminatory power of SSR primers (r=0.94***; P0.001). The marker Xwmc597 was able to discriminate all the 28 cultivars. Successively, 80 genotypes were analysed using three SSR markers with the higher Rp value. Two SSRs were able to distinguish all the 80 genotypes. Particularly, Xwmc597 was able to distinguish 69/80 genotypes while Xwmc415 identified the other cultivars. An identification key was obtained combining the data of these two markers.
90002792|Effect of soil parameters on one of the least, but so much the more important fraction of soil organic matter so called dissolved organic matter fraction, was investigated. We have hypothesised that soil quality have substantial influence on dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and nitrogen (DON) concentrations. Based on soils of Soil Monitoring System of Hungary, relationship between soil parameters and DOC and DON were carried out by correlation and regression analysis. DOC concentration of soils was determined to the greatest extent by soil organic matter (r = 0.558**). The DOC content and two parameters (y
23785382|The main problem for the determination of trichothecene mycotoxins in cereals is not detection but sample pretreatment, obtaining a selective and fast extraction of the trichothecenes from the matrix. Supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) is a useful alternative to the commonly used time-consuming solvent extraction and clean-up procedures with high consumption of solvents and various steps of solid phase extraction (SPE). The goal of this study was to establish the SFE conditions that would optimize the simultaneous extraction of the five trichothecenes deoxynivalenol (DON), 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-AcDON), 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol (15-AcDON), nivalenol (NIV) and fusarenon X (FUS) from wheat flour. The extracts containing the five trichothecenes were analyzed by using a GC supplied with an electron capture detector (ECD) after derivatization with TRI-SIL-TBT.
23779089|The investigations concerned the influence of simulated drought conditions on germination of nine wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars. Tolerance to osmotic stress was quantified for each cultivar by measuring rate of germination and total germination and computing two separate relative drought tolerance indices. Significant genotypic differences for tolerance to osmotic stress was observed among the nine cultivars. 'Gatcher' and 'Shortim' were found to possess a high degree of tolerance to simulated water stress during germination. The two osmotic agents, D-mannitol and polyethylene glycol were equally efficient in inducing water stress during germination and determining relative drought tolerance of the cultivars. Osmotic stress levels of 10 and 12 bars induced by D-mannitol appeared to give almost similar germination responses. Cultivar differences for the two relative drought tolerance indices may be used as a guide in selecting parents for developing drought tolerance during germination in a wheat breeding programme.
23790306|A field experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of nitrogen fertilizer applications on some quality components of wheat. For winter wheat genotypes (Ana Morava, Vizija, L-3027 and Perla) were grown at Small Grains Research Centre Kragujevac in three years (20052007) at three levels of nitrogen fertilization (N 1 = 60 kg N ha 1 , N 2 = 90 kg N ha 1 and N 3 = 120 kg N ha 1 ). Zeleny sedimentation value and wet gluten content in divergent wheat genotypes were analyzed in depending on the nitrogen nutrition and years. Nitrogen fertilization significantly increased sedimentation value and wet gluten content. The highest increasing of both traits established in N 3 variant when applied 120 kg ha 1 of nitrogen. Genotypes reacted differently to N level increasing. Cultivar Perla had the highest value of sedimentation and wet gluten content and this cultivar the best reacted to increasing N levels. Statistically significant differences for sedimentation value and wet gluten content were found among cultivars, years, N-doses and for all their interactions. The results have shown that the best quality of wheat was with nitrogen applied of 120 kg N ha 1 . Correlation between nitrogen applications and sedimentation value was significant (r = 0.208*), while between N-doses and wet gluten content was high significant (r = 0.290**). Sedimentation value and wet gluten content positively correlated (r = 0.783**).
23792315|Availability of markers that distinguish commercially important premium Basmati rice varieties from cheaper Basmati or non-Basmati indica rice varieties is of interest to exporters, commercial suppliers and consumers to ensure the varietal purity of Basmati rice supplies. In this study, a fingerprint database of 27 rice varieties including commercially important traditional Basmati (TB), cross-bred (evolved) Basmati and some non-Basmati indica rice varieties has been prepared using 50 microsatellite markers. A total of 271 electromorphs (alleles) were detected at 50 SSR (simple sequence repeat) loci, 92 of which were observed only in 210 of the 16 Basmati rice varieties. Notably, 710 of the sixteen Basmati rice varieties had the same Basmati specific electromorphs at RM562, RM551 and RM547 loci. A large number of unique (22) and null (16) electromorphs were noticed in Basmati rice varieties. A combination of four SSR markers (RM224, RM248, RM547 and RM594) can be used to differentiate all the 27 rice varieties. Specific SSR markers have been identified for the authentication of Premium Basmati rice cultivars such as Taraori Basmati (RM547, RM594 and RM511), Basmati 370 (RM252, RM426 and RM527), Karnal Local (RM248, RM423 and RM488) and Pusa 1121 (RM252, RM400 and RM410), and for the detection of adulterant like Sharbati (RM215, RM423 and RM259). SSR database reported here, shall broaden the list of SSR markers already recommended for varietal identification and detection of adulteration in Basmati rice supplies.
23784253|The efficiency of early selection was tested in field trials in Szeged in 1987-1989. Six winter and spring wheat varieties and their 15 combinations in F1,F2 and F3 generations were investigated. The plants selected from the F1 plants showed great differences in yields, but their F2 family means did not differ. Consequently, the variability in F1 was due only to environmental factors. Selection of the same efficiency could be carried out to both positive and negative directions from F2 populations sown in fall and spring. Higher yielding plants could be selected more effectively from the visually preselected group than from the randomly preselected group. The negative selection was more efficient from the random group. This difference between the offsprings of visually and randomly selected plants disappeared in F3 generation. The correlations for yield between F2 plants and their F3 offsprings were between 0.466 - 0.688, (P=5%), when all plants selected for positive and negative directions were considered together with their progenies. This means that a successful selection in F2 generation - in contrary to a number of literature sources - is possible and a possibility to be exhausted in the improvement of breeding procedure. A number of lines could be selected from F3 which yielded 20-50% more than F3 bulks.
23786987|Fungal attack on maize ears by Fusarium spp. leads to severe yield losses in Hungary almost every year. The severity of damage is influenced by modifying ecological factors (e.g. late sowing, susceptible varieties, hybrids of long vegetation periods, high plant densities, foggy or humid weather at the end of summer, etc) as well as by damage caused by insect pests like the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis HBN. Different maize varieties were included in comparative studies on industrial scale plots at Bcsalms Sunflower Production Company in 1994. In the course of studies on the incidence of the fusariosis disease, the feeding of minute beetles was observed on the ends of the ears not covered by husk leaves. By determining these beetles of 4 to 6 mm they were found to belong to the group Heteromera, family of Anthicidae, species of Notoxus and Formicomus. Notoxus brachycerus FALD., Notoxus appendicinus DESBR. and Formicomus pedestris ROSSI were the most common of these insects. Both coleopterus genera (Notoxus and Formicomus) feed on the maize seeds at the end of July or in early August, each ear may contain 10 to 15 beetles injuring the young seeds (stage: waxy ripeness). The opened, partly consumed seeds present good growing conditions for Fusarium fungi that may spread under suitable humid weather conditions to the whole ear, causing not only yield reduction but also the appearance of fungal toxins dangerous for domestic animals or even humans. Earlier literature data reported the mass appearance of anthicid beetles as scavengers on cadavers of other Coleoptera that contain cantharidin, foremost on Melo species. It needs further research to establish whether the feeding of Anthicidae signalled a change in their originally necrophagous feeding habits or feeding on such substitute aliments has been caused by the prolonged drought period that had prevailed in Hungary in 1994. Be as it may, the damage they caused in year 2000 had been the most significant ever.
23785359|A collection of 86 isolates of Phoma lingam obtained from infected oilseed rape (Brassica napus L.) plants from different geographical locations in Poland has been studied by PCR and PFGE methods. The results show that the majority of isolates (95%) belonged to NA1 sub-group, which is regarded as less virulent to oilseed rape. Only 4 isolates (5%) were classified as belonging to the virulent group.
23787077|The increase of wheat production was mainly due to a considerable increment in growing areas and the improvements in grain yield through plant breeding programs. At present, ear analysis is one of the most relevant features in the development of new cultivars. The objectives of this study were to assess the effects of three cycles of recurrent selection of grain yield on the number of floret primordia and fertile florets per spikelet and to determine the relationship between grain number and the number of primordia and fertile florets. Forty eight families were evaluated in two running years (1997-1998) at the Ferreyra Experimental Station in Crdoba, Argentina (lat. 31 29 S, long. 64 W). Five main shoots from each plot were divided in thirds for analysis. Results between cycles indicated that the most advanced cycle always had a higher mean value in the number of floret primordia per spikelet in 1997 than the values recorded for the other cycles. Statistical differences were observed in the number of fertile florets per spikelet between cycles in the lower and middle thirds both in 1997 and 1998. Significant differences were also observed in the kernel number per spikelet in the lower and upper third in 1998. Statistical analysis also showed that the number of floret primordia, fertile florets and kernels per spikelet increased mainly in the lower third during the microevolutive process. The mean values of all variables considered, regardless of cycle effects, were higher in the middle third than the other ones.
23786156|The effect of the sexual stage of wheat leaf rust (Puccinia persistens Plow. subsp. triticina (Eriks.) Urban et Markov) on virulence patterns was studied. The main objective was to obtain new combinations of genes for virulence/avirulence for the postulation of genes for resistance to leaf rust in wheat cultivars. Wheat straw from a field trial inoculated with six pathotypes of leaf rust from earlier race surveys was left outdoors over winter. In spring, straw with telia was placed over plants of Thalictrum speciosissimum L. ex Loefl., T. minus L., T. foetidum L., T. aquilegifolium L. and T. lucidum L.. Abundant aecia were formed on T. speciosissimum, only a few on T. minus, and none on the other species. Aeciospores were inoculated on wheat. From the resulting uredia, 67 single pustule isolates were taken, increased and tested on 13 near isogenic Lr lines. Thirty different virulence patterns were revealed.
90003362|Weed invasion is a serious biotic stress on fallow lands. To suppress weeds, it is suggested to sow high diversity seed mixtures composed by non-weedy disturbance tolerant and generalist members of the biological flora. Available seed ecological knowledge on these species is more or less satisfactory regarding seed weight, seed shape and dispersal type, however, more research needed to learn their soil seed bank types, germination and seed storage requirements. To determine exact composition of multi-species seed mixtures applicable in practice, case studies should be conducted under major climatic and soil conditions.
23783778|Inoculated field tests determined the reaction of winter wheat to Septoria nodorum during 1991-93. Tolerance to the pathogen was found in only 4 % of the 750 entries screened. Only 11 varieties and one breeding line showed very stable tolerance. In eight of these entries, the ears were more infected than the flag leaves. The variety Turda was the most tolerant entry, as determined by low loss of yield. In this group of entries, there was no significant correlation between visual symptoms of infection and yield reduction. Six entries were highly susceptible and gave consistently high yield losses. These entries and the stable tolerant ones could be used as comparative standards for screening tests on the field.
23786973|Stagonospora (Septoria) nodorum Berk. leaf and glume blotch can cause severe yield losses in triticale (xTriticosecale Wittm.). In diallel crosses the relationship between disease symptoms and grain yield losses were measured and general combining ability (GCA) and specific combining ability (SCA) for disease symptoms on leaves and spikes estimated. Seven parents and their 21 F1 crosses were grown in micro-plots in two locations as a non-inoculated variant and also artificially inoculated with S. nodorum. Infection caused a mean reduction in kernel weight per spike of 18.1% in the parents and 12.6% in the F1 crosses, which was mainly a result of a 13.1% and 8.2% reduced 1000-kernel weight, respectively. The number of kernels per spike and the 50-ml weight were little affected. The phenotypic correlations in F1 crosses between symptom ratings and grain yield traits were low. Heritability was high to very high in parents and F1 crosses. Both combining ability variances GCA accounted for most of the genetic variation for spike and leaf ratings, indicating predominantly additive gene effects for resistance. The close relationship between parental performance and their GCA effect allows in most cases a prediction of the resistance of F1 crosses from parental values.
23785397|The cytotoxicty and ability to produce mycotoxins of 35 strains of the eight most common Fusarium species isolated from Norwegian cereals were determined. The examined species were F. avenacetum, F. culmorum, F. equiseti, F. graminearum, F. poae, F. sporotrichioides, F. torulosum and F. tricinctum. The strains were cultivated on rice and their cytotoxic properties examined with an in vitro MTT-cell culture assay, and analysed for the most common trichothecenes, fusarochromanone, wortmannin, moniliformin and enniatins.
23787236|The objective of this study was to study the heritability, correlations and the genetic gains for grain yield and protein content in the populations of Ege 88 and Kunduru cultivars irradiated with different doses of gamma rays. The experiment was conducted over three years (from 1997 to 2000) in Bornova-Izmir, Turkey. The seeds of the two cultivars were irradiated by 0 (control), 5, 10, 15, 20 and 25 krad doses of gamma rays just before sowing in 1997. In the 1997-98 and 1998-99 growing seasons, the irradiated seeds were grown in a randomized complete block design (RCBD) with two replications. In 1998-99, 150 spikes of wheat were taken from each plot, bulked and grown in RCBD with two reps in 1999-2000. In each generation, plant height (cm), heading date (days), thousand kernel weight (g) and grain yield/plot (g) were measured and protein content (%) was determined. Using the data, the analysis of variance, phentoypic and genotypic variances, heritabilities and genetic gains and correlation analysis were performed. Ege 88 populations had higher grain yield but lower protein contents than those of Kunduru. None of the Ege 88 populations had gave higher grain yield than the control over three years. However, this situation was reversed in the Kunduru populations where the control population had only higher yield (1300 g/plot) than the mean (1215 g/plot) of the population irradiated with 25 krad gamma rays. Genetic gains computed based on population means for grain yield/plot and protein content were 513 g and 2.87 % for the Kunduru, and 872 g and 2.54 % for the Ege 88 populations, respectively. Grain yield had positive significant correlations (r=0.66** and r=0.67**) with days to heading and plant height for Kunduru where these correlations were found to be negative for Ege 88 (r=0.64** and r=0.36*, respectively). Protein content had negative significant correlations with heading date, plant height and grain yield (r = 0.67**, r=0.53** and r=0.63**, respectively).
23777452|Germination of seeds and winter hardiness of A/ms/-lines were compared with their normal fertile counterparts B/mf/-lines. The investigations were conducted with 10 cultivars of common wheat during a two year period. Germination capacity of the seed produced on male sterile plants was lower for 10.5 %. After low temperature treatment /6 hours at 15C/, seedlings of A/ms/-lines had higher percentage of the 1st leaf injury /8.0 %/, and higher percentage of dead plants /14.9 %/. Difference between years for winter hardiness was highly significant.
23783965|Effects of cessation of watering on Nitrate Reductase Activity (NRA) were studied in plants grown in bags in a greenhouse under two nitrogen regimes (application of urea or no application of nitrogen fertilizer). Nitrate Reductase Activity was reduced by water shortage only in plants well supplied with nitrogen. The effect was more marked on potential NRA (NRA+) than on actual NRA (NRA-, measured without addition of nitrate to the assay medium), and it was not associated to a reduced concentration of nitrates in the leaves. Low nitrogen level in the soil reduced strongly NRA and nitrate content of tissues. The level of nitrate present in the tissues (endogenous nitrate) seemed always to limit NRA activities, considering the lower values of actual NRA compared to potential NRA.
23783989|The correlation between water use efficiency (WUE) and carbon isotope discrimination of C3 photosynthesis has been reported by various authors. On the basis of these data, we were expectin that the WUE affects grain yield during drought conditions. To test out hypothesis, we have collected samples of 110 spring barley varieties and breeding lines in stage 'Feekes 16' during the year 1989. This year was characterized by extremely low precipitation. The ratio of carbon isotopes 12C and 13C determined as 13C-values and the grain yield was measured. The correlation coefficient obtained for these two parameters was small (r = 0.226) but significant. Methodically perhaps the determination of  13C values could be helpful in breeding for an improved water use efficiency.
23785320|The aim of the present study was to detect the residues of propiconazole- and bromuconazole-based fungicides in flour and bran produced from grain of 4 fungicide-treated wheats by gas and liquid chromatography. When Tilt 250 EC was applied in the 1-2 nodes stage of the stem development propiconazole could be detected in the flour of two wheat varieties. In bran no propiconazole residues were detected in any of the varieties. In case of treatment carried out in a later phenophase - after development of the flag leaf and in the beginning of heading - propiconazole residue could be detected in the flour of only one wheat variety. The active substance of Grnit SC - bromuconazole - was detected in the flour of only one wheat variety in two cases: on the one hand when the fungicide treatment was done in the 1-2 nodes stage of stem development, and on the other hand when the fungicide treatment was done after the development of the flag leaf, at the beginning of the heading. In bran no bromuconazole residues were detected for all the varieties studied. It seems that the residues of the fungicides studied do not translocate in bran, which is constituted mainly from pericarpium parts. Their detection in flour is probably due to the fact that during milling the embryos get mainly into flour and the triazoles can be translocated partly to lipids, and partly to the hydrophobic regions in the amino acid chains in the gluten molecule.
23785230|Data are presented on Fusarium head blight (FHB) or head scab resistance of 96 winter wheat, 2 winter triticale and 38 spring wheat genotypes. The genotypes have been evaluated after artificial inoculation in one or more seasons from 1992 to 1995. The disease development was estimated by visual scorings. A standardized area under the disease progress curve (SAUDPC) was calculated to estimate disease severity. The single trials were analyzed according to their experimental designs. The mean values of the single trials were then subjected to an analysis across years and least square means were calculated for all genotypes. Considerable variation for scab resistance was found. A number of wheat genotypes showed consistently low levels of scab attack, for instance Sumei # 3, CM 82036, Wuhan-lines and Frontana (spring types) as well as Sgv-NB*MM-Sum3.11, BVAL-lines and Praag 8 (winter types). Some of the resistant genotypes are used in practical breeding and for genetic studies as well as for the identification of molecular markers for scab resistance.
90002807|The results of our long-term experiments on chernozem soil proved that the sunflower hybrids could adapt well to the dry, warm year partially due to the favourable soil characteristics. According to our scientific results we can state, although the occurrence of Diaporthe infection (control 14-18 %, N
23783914|We have studied the possibility of developing lines with the alien substitution of chromosome 5R from the rye cultivar Onokhoyskaya for its homoeologues 5A or 5D of various cultivars of common wheat recognized by the manifestation of the Hp marker gene. The scheme suggested is based on using the Hp gene as a phenotypic marker for isolation of 42-chromosome plants with the genotype 20W+5A+5R for weak pubescence of culm. Analysis of gamete transmission frequency in the reciprocal hybrids BC1 with the chromosomal constitution 20W+5A+5R showed that the frequency of transmission of gametes 20+5R is higher through the male parent than through the female (37.8% and 17.8%, respectively), and that of gametes 21+5R is practically identical through either (7.7% and 8.4%, respectively). Following our method, we have developed nine lines with chromosome 5R substituted for 5A, one line with 5RL(5A) and monosomic alien substitution lines and addition lines with rye chromosome 5R in various recipient cultivars.
90003017|We investigated the changes of nutrient concentration of yellow nutsedge in pot trials. Samplings were made at 11 occasions, weekly between June 1 and 24 August in 2007. Summarised it can be stated, that the nutrient concentration of yellow nutsedge shows just a minimal changes. The concentrations of all tested nutrients were higher in the shoots than in the underground parts.
23786918|Haploid induction response through wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) x maize (Zea mays L.) system was studied in each of six winter and spring wheat genotypes and their six winter x spring wheat F1s by crossing them with maize in separate experiments. Data were recorded with respect to successful pollinations, % embryo formation and % regeneration. Analysis of variance revealed considerable genetic variation among the parental genotypes for embryo formation and regeneration. Although high heritability estimate was obtained for embryo formation (88.97%), it was low for regeneration (33.94%). Line x tester analysis of the data suggested the influence of wheat and maize genotypes and their interaction on embryo formation, whereas significant influence of maize genotypes and wheat x maize interaction was observed in case of regeneration. On the basis of GCA effects, 'Pnfjoumee x HPW 93' and 'Sentry x RL 10-22' of wheat and 'Early Composite' and 'KH 517' of maize were good combiners for embryo formation, while 'Sabet Sweetcorn' was the only good combiner for regeneration.
23792275|Variation in tolerance of prolonged drought was identified among a set of single chromosome bread wheat substitution lines, involving the replacement of each cv. Chinese Spring chromosome in turn with its homologue from a synthetic hexaploid (Triticum dicoccoides x Aegilops tauschii). Water stress was applied under controlled conditions by limiting the supply of water to 30% from 100% aqueous soil. The reaction to the resulting long-term drought stress was quantified by three indices, based on grain yield components. Enhanced drought tolerance was associated with the presence of donor chromosomes 1A, 5A, 1D, 3D, 5D and 6D, and enhanced susceptibility with chromosomes 3A, 4B and 7D.
90003174|Evaluation of resistance to the spread of Fusarium head blight (FHB type 2 resistance) in 25 Asian wheat varieties revealed that the some Japanese varieties showed similar level with Sumai 3. The varieties with high type 2 resistance tended to have low grain damage and deoxynivarenol accumulation due to FHB. It was considered that type 2 resistance is one of the factors related to
23785306|Five spring hexaploid wheat genotypes were evaluated for their androgenic ability, rate of spontaneous chromosome doubling and efficiency of different colchicine treatments on plantlets, and on embryoids obtained 45 days after anther culture. A concentration of 500 mg/l of colchicine was used for 1 or 3 days for embryoid treatment. Results show significant genetic effects on androgenesis parameters; 'Yecora Rojo' and 'Pavon' being the best genotypes. Total, green and albino regeneration rates decreased when embryoids were colchicine treated. In most cases there were no significant differences between 1 or 3 days treatment, except for PI-49 and 'Chenab' genotypes which could not regenerate green plants with 3 days treatment. Chromosome doubling rates varied according to genotype. Spontaneous doubling ranged from 0% for PI-49 and 'Chenab' genotypes to 56% for 'Yecora Rojo'. Chromosome doubling rate was at least 50% and raised to 100% in some cases when embryoids were colchicine treated, but because of a low regeneration frequency of these embryoids, treatment efficiency remained low. We propose that embryoid treatment with colchicine be recommended, for genotypes producing a high number of embryos or those which have a low rate of spontaneous chromosome doubling.
23784259|The correlations between meteorological elements and karnal bunt disease of wheat have been obtained.The important meteorological elements have been identified which are included in multiregression model developed for forecasting this disease. The detailed analysis of historical data show that the maximum temperature for 10th and 11th standrad meteorological weeks (SMWs) and sunshine duration from 9th to 11th SMWs are negatively related while evening relative humidity during 9th through 11th SMWs and number of rainy days for 9th SMW are positively related with the disease intensity. The regression analysis showed that these elements result in a coefficient of determination of 0.89 and D.W value of 2.01. The ranges of the critical values of weather elements have also been determined.
23792318|Durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. Desf.) is a species well adapted to the Mediterranean environments where salt stress due to seawater intrusion is an increasing problem. The purpose of this study was to deep insight into the relationships among physiological, productive and qualitative aspects under salinity, being these aspects still poorly investigated in durum wheat. In 20042005 crop season 10 durum wheat genotypes of different origin and breeding time were grown in a naturally-lit polycarbonate greenhouse under three irrigation water salinity levels (0.9, 6.0 and 12.0 dS m 1 ). A complete randomized block design with three replications was adopted. The osmotic damage was evaluated by estimating relative water content (RWC), leaf water potential ( w ) and osmotic potential at full turgor ( 100 ). The toxic damage to the plants was evaluated by measuring Na + accumulation and Na + /K + ratio in the leaves. Differences in yield performance were evaluated by assessing the main yield components and some qualitative traits, carotenoid pigment and protein content and Sedimentation test in sodium dodecyl sulphate. A significant effect of genotype, salt stress and of their interaction on all the characters was observed. Durum wheat genotypes generally showed a moderate tolerance to salt stress. The genotype performance was dependent on stress level and RWC maintenance. Osmotic adjustment and low sodium accumulation were found to play a key role in salt tolerance. An improvement in the grain quality characters on increasing salinity level, consistently with a yield decrease, was observed.
90003073|The grain moisture content, the water content of the cob and internode and the thousand-kernel mass were examined at very low grain moisture content for 22 hybrids in the FAO 200500 maturity groups between 2 and 17 November 2006. It was found that no practically significant grain drying or change in thousand-kernel mass could be expected after the equilibrium grain moisture content was reached, either due to average weather conditions or to higher moisture content in other plant organs. As no further reduction in costs can be achieved, it is advisable to begin harvesting.
23782772|Acid protease activity (pH=4.00) was studied in five durum wheat (T.durum Desf.) lines, having valuable properties: Nos. 348, 360, 426, 427, and 264. Flag leaves of individual plants as the grain formation stage were investigated. It is established a great variation in the protease activity levels during the two years of the investigation and the positive correlation between the enzyme activity and protein content. The variance and coefficient of determination were analysed too.
23786185|Grain yield potential of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) can be markedly affected by environmental stresses that occur early in the life cycle of the crop. This study was conducted in greenhouse sand cultures to determine the effects of salinity either applied or withdrawn at three different stages of wheat shoot organogenesis: (1) late in the leaf primordium initiation phase (LLPI), (2) double ridge stage (DRS), or (3) terminal spikelet formation (TSF). Plant response to changes in salinity was evaluated in terms of mainstem phenology, timing of tiller appearance, yield, and yield components. Leaf primordium initiation was more sensitive to changes in salinity than was spikelet primordium initiation. For changes in salinity at LLPI, final mainstem leaf number was controlled by the new, rather than the original, stress level, whereas when salinity was changed at DRS, final spikelet number was controlled by the original salinity level. Changes in salinity level did not inhibit tiller bud initiation, but affected the timing of tiller emergence. Grain yields were reduced by relatively brief periods of salinity, but losses were minimized if stress was withdrawn at LLPI or DRS or if stress application was delayed until TSF.
23787171|This study was performed to determine whether agronomic traits in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants are affected by the expression of a selectable marker gene, hpt. The hpt gene was transferred to embryogenic calli derived from mature rice embryos by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. These transgenic lines represented a range of copy number and their gene expression at mRNA level was approximately proportional to the transgene copy number up to three copies. The genetic analysis showed that the transgenes generally segregated in a Mendelian inheritance pattern assuming co-integration (3:1; 15:1) in the T1 generation. In transgenic rice plants, most of agronomic traits were similar to those of nontransgenic plants, except that fertility was different from that of nontransgenic plants. We conclude that differences of agronomic traits of transgenic lines between their parents could be overcome by shortening in vitro culture duration or by backcrossing transgenic lines with their parents and selecting for the desirable genotype.
23782955|T. monococcum/T. durum amphiploids and T. aestivum lines were screened in the greenhouse,for antibiotic and non-preferance resistance to D. noxia. Some of the amphiploids exhibited antibiotic resistance on the basis of number ' of developing embryos in the aphids feeding on the test plants. Significantly more apterae colonized the susceptible wheat, Betta, than the amphiploids after being given a free choice. Two wheat lines were moderately resistant to D. noxia. A genetic explanation is given for the observed variation in the number of embryos per aphid, feeding on different plants in the progeny of a specific amphiploid. Methods to transfer the resistance from T. monococcum to T. aestivum are outlined.
23784199|Quantitative changes of amino acids induced by NPK fertilization in the seeds of two wheat varieties grown on a heavy-calcareous and rich in humus meadow soil have been examined by a RP-HPLC method, in order to determine the effect of growing NPK supply on the amino acid composition of wheat seeds. The higher N dose resulted in higher (7-20 %) content of the ASP, SER, HIS, GLY, THR, ARG, ALA, TYR, VAL, PHE, ILE, LEU and LYS in seeds of both varieties. Maximum amounts were achieved usually at 180 kg/ha N fertilizer level, and the 240 kg/ha N dose did not cause any further increase. The content of CYS and MET hardly depended on N fertilization. The amount of GLU, SER, THR, CYS and MET decreased by 7-10 %, with increasing the PK doses, while the quantity of other amino acids decreased slightly, or remained unchanged. Improving of PK supply acted synergistically with the N effect on the amino acid content. The two examined wheat cultivars showed reliable differences only in the amount of GLY, ARG, TYR and ILE.
23783036|Inheritance of bacterial blight resistance in rice was studied in two crosses, viz., TKM 6 (resistant) x Karuna (susceptible) and IR 20 (resistant) x Dular (susceptible). Segregation pattern in both the crosses showed that the resistance was governed by a single dominant gene.
90003004|
               
23777711|The effect of small oral doses /10 ppm and 30 ppm/ of the cholinesterase inhibiting insecticide Birlane was investigated in feeding experiments. The body weight, weight gain, food intake, food utilization efficiency; serum, red blood cell and bowel epithelium cholinesterase activity; 45Ca, 35S-methionine, 24Na and D-glucose absorbtion ability of bowel, were determined. It was shown that neither the larger nor the smaller doses caused significant differences in the Ca and methionine absorbtion of the bowels, in the weight and in the food intake. The absorbtion of glucose and Na and the food utilization efficiency slightly changed. The decrease of the blood's cholinesterase activity showed the effectiveness of the insecticide used.
90003306|With the introgression of highly effective FHB resistance QTL the question arises, whether
23786978|Using conventional breeding methods for obtaining the homozygous lines in segregated population takes a lot of time. This study presents the intensification achieved in the breeding process of wheat by application of embryo culture and dihaploidization on the material in intervarietal hybridization. Hybrids with high regeneration capacity at anther culture cultivation were obtained. For a considerably short period of 6-7 years large number of androgenic wheat lines were selected and analysed. Some of them combine valuable economic properties from both parental forms: higher yield and higher stem density. In the recent years these lines were used as initial breeding material for hybridization in Dobroudja Agricultural Institute. A candidate-variety was released, which exceeded both the initial parental forms and the standards by grain yield.
90002699|Responses of some physiological traits of
23783912|Hybrid plants were obtained by a hybridization between tetraploid rye varieties and hexaploid triticale forms. They were intermediate in ear morphology and possess high sterility. To improve the seed set the F1 hybrids were backcrossed with hexaploid triticale forms. The plants in F5BC1 were characterised with long ears, high number of spikelets and florets per main ear and 43.98 number of grains on average.
90003275|Effects of nine isolates of
23789834|The natural climate variability may be masked by the anthropogenic made global warming, today. With a warmer climate, drought and excess rainfall conditions could become more frequent and longer lasting. The potential increase of the hazards result stresses and high costs in cereal production. For this reason a long-term study was conducted on a sandy acidic lessivated brown forest soil; WRB: Haplic Luvisol in the 44 year old Nyrlugos Field Trial (NYFT) in a Hungarian fragile agroecosystem in Nyrsg region (N: 470 41' 60, and E: 220 2' 80,) on triticale (x Triticosecale Wittm.) yield between 1999 and 2006. In 1962, at the trial set up the soil had the following agrochemical properties: pH (H2O) 5.9, pH (KCI) 4.7, hydrolytic acidity 8.4, hy1 0.3, humus 0.7%, total N 34 mg kg-1, ammonlactate (AL) soluble-P2O5 43 mg kg-1, AL-K2O 60 mg kg-1 in the plowed (025 cm) layer. The trial consisted of 32 x 4 = 128 plots in randomised block design. The gross plot size was 10 x 5 = 50 m2. The average fertilizer rates in kg ha-1 year-1 were nitrogen 75, phosphorus 90 (P2O5), potassium 90 (K2O), calcium 437.5 (CaCO3) and magnesium 140 (MgCO3). The groundwater table had at a depth of 23 m below the surface. During drought conditions the respective yield of the control areas was 25% less than for average years. The application N alone or NP and NK treatments led to yield reduction of 19.7%, while that of NPK, NPKCa, NPKMg and NPKCaMg caused an 28.3% yield drop. In the wet years the yield decreased by 22.2% on the unfertilized soils; in case of the N, NP and NK nutrition the yield dropped with an 14.1%; and the yield increased at 13.8% on NPK, NPKCa, NPKMg and NPKCaMg treated plots. Yield dropped in the very wettest year 43.1% on control soils; 39.3% of N, NP and NK loadings, and 35.8% on NPK, NPKCa, NPKMg and NPKCaMg treatments to those in the average year. The relationship between rainfall quantity during the vegetation period and N, P, K, Ca, Mg nutrition and Yield was characterised by polynomial correlation (control: R = 0.7212***, N: R = 0.7410***, NP: R = 0.6452***, NK: R = 0.6998***, NPK: R = 0.5555***, NPKCa: R = 0.5578***, NPKMg: R = 0.4869**, NPKCaMg: R = 0.4341**). total regression coefficients ranged from 0.43 to 0.74 in depence on the different nutrient application. Maximum yields of 5.86.0 t ha-1 were achieved in the rainfall range of 580620 mm. At values above and below this domain of the precipitation the grain yield reduced quadratically. So, it can be stated that both drought and excess rainfall conditions resulted dramatically significant negative effects between fertilization (N, P, K, Ca, Mg) and triticale yield.
23783852|A modified single doubled haploid descent method, involving the analysis of F1 populations produced using gametocide, the selection of F2 plants following the principles of single seed descent, and the regeneration of dihaploid plants, is recommended for the breeding of agronomically valuable dihaploid wheat. In the present experiment, 346 green dihaploids were obtained from the anthers of ears isolated from 280 anther donor plants. However, the number of dihaploids originating from one ear ranged from 0.08 to 7.37, indicating the genotype dependence of in vitro androgenesis. The competitiveness of the method with traditional breeding is proved by the fact that dihaploid lines with a performance equal to that of the best control varieties were successfully produced despite the small initial stock.
23786153|The inbred lines of maize (OS 86-39, OS 89-35 and OS 87-24) were grown in pots filled with soil from localities where zinc defficiency symptoms were noticed in corn production during several years. The fertilization experiment was established in five replicates, and 9 treatments of phosphorus and zinc fertilization were applied. The influence of phosphorus and zinc fertilization doses (140 and 420 kg P2O5/ha; 10 kg Zn/ha on the soil surface and 5 kg Zn/ha as the foliar application) on some morphological characteristics of maize was investigated. The total dry matter of aboveground plant part, dry mater of stem and leaves as well as the plant height were determined in tasseling phase. The significant differences in investigated characteristics among tested inbred lines and applied amounts of phosphorus and zinc were established. In average of all fertilization treatments, the highest plant dry matter mass, the stem mass and plant height had the inbred line OS 87-24, and the lowest values of all determined parameters showed the inbred line OS 89-35. The phosphorus fertilization increased values of all investigated morphological characteristics meanwhile the zinc fertilization have had negative influence on the total plant dry matter as well on the dry matter of leaves.
23782801|Five winter wheat cultivars grown in the field were evaluated for photosynthetic activity, using infrared gas analysis. Photosynthetic efficiency as defined by the ration of fixed CO2 contained in the grain to carbon dioxide exchange rate (CER) per unit land area was determined. Mean CER per unit leaf area failed to be significantly different among cultivars. Thus, no relationship to grain yield could be established. Calculations of CER per unit land area did provide significant differences among cultivars but no relationship to yield was observed. Photosynthetic efficiency (grain CO2/CER (kgCO2 hahr) differed significantly among cultivars. High grain yield was not necessarily associated with high CER per unit land area. Further study into source-sink relationships of wheat is needed before improvements in grain yield through increased photosynthesis can be made.
90002639|Isolations of
23783100|Spring barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and oat (Avena sativa L.) genotypes were compared to estimate the variation of seminal and adventitious roots and its importance for the shoot performance in greenhouse box-experiment. Wooden boxes with a sloping glass face were modified whereby plants could be grown with a completw root system, with only seminal roots or with only adventitious roots under thin and dense spacings. Genotypes differed in the total length of root systems and their depth of soil penetration. Interplant competition affected the growth of root systems. Under higher plant density, adventitious roots were strongly restricted to top soil layers and their proportions in the entire root systems attained only 14-21 %. After an amputation or inhibition of roots, a compensation in their growth was more evident for adventitious roots. Plants with a complete root system and with only adventitious roots formed the longest straw. Grain yield and its components were significantly reduced when plants were grown with only adventitious root system.
23790051|The presence and frequency of the resistance gene complex Lr34/Yr18 was investigated in the wheat breeding programme of the Agricultural Research Institute, Martonvsr, Hungary. A total of 226 wheat cultivars and advanced lines from Hungary and other countries were tested with an STS marker, csLV34, to understand the distribution of the Lr34/Yr18 resistance gene complex. A 150-bp PCR fragment was amplified in 64 wheat cultivars and lines with the resistance genes Lr34/Yr18, while a 229-bp fragment was detected in 162 genotypes without Lr34/Yr18. The genotypes with Lr34/Yr18 accounted for 28.3% of the wheat cultivars and advanced lines tested. Among the 128 varieties and breeding lines of Martonvsr origin tested, 34 carried the Lr34/Yr18 genes, with a frequency of 26.6%. The frequency of these genes was 30.6% in genotypes of other origin. The STS marker csLV34 could be used as an effective tool for the marker-assisted selection of Lr34/Yr18 genes in breeding wheat cultivars with durable rust resistance.
23786228|In our polyfactorial 4-year long experiment, which was carried out on chernozem soil with lime deposits at the Experimental Farm of Debrecen University of Agricultural Sciences, we wanted to find out that out of four different plant densities (N1=60, N2=70, N3=80, N4=90 thousand plant ha1) besides a fixed and most advantageous manuring level and tillage method, which one is the most favourable in irrigated and non irrigated treatment. Our aim was to choose the plant density by which a favourable yield can be achieved and the yield risk of which is acceptable for the decision maker. By using both mean (E) - variance (V) and stochastic dominance (SD) criteria we came to the same conclusion. In non-irrigated treatment N1 and N2 gave the best results for risk-averse decision makers but on the basis of neither criterion could we decide an order between the two plant densities. In the case of irrigated cultivation both criteria proved that the most advantageous plant density with regard to yield and its risk was N2 with 70 thousand plant ha1. With the E-V criterion we use only mean value and variance parameters to describe the effects of plant density, while with the SD criteria it is possible to make comparisons on the whole range of the crop. With smaller number of data the use of the E-V, while with larger data number the use of the SD criterion is suggested. We will get the same results from the use of the two criteria only if the factors and conditions of cultivation are well represented in our database.
23787072|Feasibility of wheat x corn hybridization to produce doubled haploids (DHs) for soft red winter wheat (SRWW) breeding was assessed. Seven intervarietal wheat hybrids were pollinated with the same corn genotype (Seneca 60) in a greenhouse, followed by 2,4-D application, 6-24 hours post-pollination, embryo rescue at the end of third week after pollination and chromosome doubling by colchicine in the media at 1-2 leaf stage of the plantlets. The plantlets were transferred to soil, maintained in a growth chamber for two weeks and then grown in the greenhouse. There was no seed set without 2,4-D treatment and 81-90% (mean 87%), including proliferated ovaries, with 100 ppm 2,4-D treatment. Wheat hybrids differed significantly for percent seed set with corn pollination and for percent seeds with embryos but not for differentiation of cultured embryos. Haploid seed development was better in coin envelops than in glassine bags. 16% seeds had embryos, 37% embryos had normal organogenesis, 50% seedlings survived to maturity and 25% of them set seed. Wheat hybrid 5156 was the best with 86% seed set, 35% seeds with embryos, 54% embryos producing plantlets of which 57% survived to maturity and 50% of the survivors set seed. Overall, if 100 DHs are needed for selection of desirable segregants, enough intervarietal wheat hybrid seed would be required to have 289 plants of an intervarietal cross for pollination with corn.
23783900|The endosperm storage proteins of hexaploid tritordeum (X Tritordeum Ascherson et Graebner) were analyzed by electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) in two lines with similar genetic backgrounds, differing principally, although not exclusively, for one H. chilense parental line, and exhibiting large differences in quality characteristics. Although the role of the H. chilense proteins seems to be more important that those durum wheat proteins, the results suggested that endosperm storage proteins from both parents (durum wheat and H. chilense) influence breadmaking quality in tritordeum. Also, the behaviour of the H. chilense proteins seems to be similar to that observed for the storage proteins from Aegilops squarrosa L. in bread wheat.
23789795|One of the major challenges for maize breeders is to develop hybrids that have an advantage in water-limited environments. A considerable number of grain production studies in maize include correlations between agronomic and physiological characteristics and grain yield. The main objective of this study was to identify traits that may relate to stay-green and grain yield in two maize synthetic populations. S1 progenies were evaluated in an incomplete block design in four environments. Correlations and path coefficient analysis showed that the leaf water content had the greatest impact on stay-green. At the same time, stalk water content had a less direct effect on stay-green than it could be expected from its correlations. The highest positive direct effect on grain yield was determined for stay-green in both populations (P2.1=0.717** and P2.1=0.649**, respectively). Breeding for stay-green seems to be feasible in many applied breeding programs, especially due to its simplicity to score on a large number of entries.
23777680|The sphaerococcum gene s was mapped 5.7 crossover units away from the centromere on the beta (short) arm of chromosome 3D of wheat by the telocentric method. Male transmission of telocentric-3D(beta) in competition with complete 3D was 12.2%.
23781341|A new hybrid Hordeum chilense  Triticum turgidum is reported. Data on meiotic behaviour of the hybrid are presented.
90002869|Our botanical survey at the great pasture of Hajdbagos is a part of a broad research that aims to predict the production of the grass at the given area. As the mentioned pasture is a nature conservation area, the usage of artificial fertilizers or other classic grassland management methods in its handling are prohibited. Therefore grazing is an important tool for the management of this area, however the not suitably regulated grazing order and the poorly calculated carrying capacity cause serious problems at some parts of the pasture. The prediction of the grass yield is essential to avoid both over- and both under-grazing and for determining the optimal number of the grazing animal stock and the grazing method, thus the most suitable management strategy.
90002770|Importance of agricultural production (besides strategically significant food production) increases, because of the need for strategic production of energy crops used for energy production. Term energy crop includes crops that can be processed using different technologies in order to obtain different energy-generating bioproducts, such as: biodiesel, bioethanol, biogas and biomass for incineration. Correct management and better exploitation of existing land resources, as well as introduction and development of new crops makes possible higher production of plant organic material for processing and production of energy-generating bioproducts. In biogas production, biogas production plants work continuously throughout the year without stopping. To insure that, it is necessary to provide enough organic material in quality and quantity, which will be converted into biogas in production plants. Due to its distinctly high green mass yield, Sudan grass (Sorghum sudanense L.) becomes interesting crop that can replace silage maize in biogas production plants. Sudan grass is an annual high grass, which gives exceptionally high green mass yields that can be used as green forage, haylage or silage. Due to its late sowing period, it is suitable as stubble crop. In conducted research, obtained Sudan grass yield amounted to 82 t/ha. Due to its high yield it is possible to obtain the same amount of silage using only 60% of land we used for maize silage production.
23786098|Thirteen Egyptian bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars and Bobwhite were evaluated for their potential use in tissue culture studies using three different concentrations of 2,4-dicholorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). Modified medium of Cheng et al (1997) supplemented with 0.5 mg/l, 1.0 mg/l, and 2.0 mg/l of 2,4-D were used. The results showed genotypes, 2,4-D concentrations and their interactions significantly affected the percentage of embryogenic calli induced, regenerable calli and regenerated green plants. The highest responding genotypes across the three concentrations of 2,4-D were Gemmieza 3 (69.6%) for embryogenic calli, Sakha 69 (88.2%) for regenerable calli and Gemmieza 3 (92.3%) for regenerated green plants. The most favorable concentration of 2,4-D, across all genotypes, was 0.5 mg/l with high frequencies of embryogenic calli (48.6%), regenerable calli (77.3%) and regenerated green plants (76.7%). Highly significant genotype by 2,4-D concentrations interactions were observed for all studied traits. The best responding genotypes at the lowest concentration of 2,4-D (0.5 mg/l) were Gemmeiza 3 (80.7%) for embryogenic calli, Giza 167 (90.1%) for regenerable calli and Gemmieza 3 (95.3%) for regenerated green plants. At the higher 2,4-D concentrations, Sakha 69 was the best cultivar for embryogenic calli (68.7%; 2.0 mg/l 2,4-D), regenerable calli (94.2%; 2.0 mg/l 2,4-D) and regenerated green plants (94.8%; 1.0 mg/l 2,4-D). The response of Gemmeiza 3, Giza 167 and Sakha 69 was better or equal to Bobwhite at different 2,4-D concentrations.
23790071|In PI466495, a powdery mildew resistance source of wild barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. spontaneum), one gene conferring powdery mildew resistance was identified in the Mla locus. In this paper, the RGH1a gene sequence was used as source for the development of a cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) marker. Co-segregation between this marker and powdery mildew resistance was analysed by specific DNA fragments associated with each allele of the gene using 286 F 2 plants derived from a cross between winter barley (H. vulgare L.) variety 'Tiffany' and PI466495. For the co-dominant marker RGH1aI1a, three fragments, 370 bp, 82 bp and 59 bp in size, were amplified from F 2 plants exhibiting resistance reaction types 0 and 01 to powdery mildew; whereas two fragments, 429 bp and 82 bp in size, were amplified in susceptible plants. Simple procedures based on polymerase chain reaction and restriction enzyme digestion allowed for identifying the plants susceptible to powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei) and plants homozygous or heterozygous for the resistance allele. The RGH1aI1a marker was positioned 0.85 cM to the resistance gene and the efficiency of marker-assisted selection (MAS), evaluated as the probability of crossing-over between the marker and the targeted gene, was 99%. The CAPS marker RGH1aI1a is a valuable candidate for MAS and gene transfer into barley varieties susceptible to powdery mildew.
23789866|Six different 1RS-specific molecular markers (RMS13, Bmac213, GPI, 5S, SCM9, IAG95) were tested in twenty rye cultivars of various origin. The aim of the experiments was to choose rye cultivars which give polymorphic PCR products with these 1RS-specific markers compared to the wheat cultivar Mv Magdalna, which contains the 1BL.1RS translocation. The polymorphic rye cultivars can be presumed to differ from the 1BL.1RS translocation originating from the Petkus rye cultivar and will hopefully carry effective resistance genes which can be incorporated into the 1BL.1RS translocation in wheat. Twenty rye cultivars (at least two plants per cultivar) were analysed with these markers. Of fifty-two rye samples analysed, three plants were found to be polymorphic, one (Kisvrdai Alacsony from Hungary), for the 5S marker, one (Kriszta from Hungary) for the RMS13 marker and one (Porto from Portugal) for the SCM9 marker. The polymorphic plants were grown to maturity in the phytotron.
23786224|The leakage of ions from detached leaves and chlorophyll degradation after exposure to PEG 6000 and elevated temperature were assessed as possible indicators of drought and heat tolerance in wheat. Exogenous application of cytokinin showed concentration dependent increase in cell membrane and chlorophyll stability in drought sensitive (Kalyansona) and drought tolerant (C-306) cultivars of wheat at anthesis and boot stages which were significantly correlated with the grain yield.
23777608|Comparative studies comprising some characteristics of the photosynthetic apparatus were conducted on A/ms/- and B/mf/-lines of common wheats, during two years. Significant differences between A/ms/-line and fertile analogs were determined for the characters:flag leaf blade area /D=3.09 cm2/, stomatal frequency per mm2 /D=4.18/, length of stomatal pore /D=1.43m/, specific leaf weight /D=0.014 g dm2/, chlorophyll /a+b/ content in the flag leaf during the grain filling stage /D=0.88 mg g1 of dry matter/. For the total number of stomata per flag leaf blade and for the chlorophyll a/b ratio - significant difference was not obtained.
23780328|A mutant of durum wheat cv. Cappelli causing high homoeologous pairing has been crossed with rye. F1 hybrids analyzed at meiosis have shown on the average a chromosome pairing of 11.4I, 4.3II and 0.3III per cell which is much higher than that of the hybrid control (Cappelli  rye). In this cross a pairing of only 0.36 bivalents per cell has been observed. A relatively low pairing between wheat and rye chromosomes is inferred according to the frequency and size of the trivalents. From these results this mutant seems to be a very promising tool for the introduction of alien variation in wheat. Recombination between rye and wheat chromosomes could also be pursued and exploited in triticale breeding.
90003118|Study of landscape pattern changes is necessary to understand the major vegetation dynamics of an area. Histories of changing land use and vegetation of a 31 km
23783050|Intergeneric hybrids were produced using Chinese Spring and four commercially cultivated varieties of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) with various Aegilops species. Crossability success ranged from high to low in the order: Chinese Spring, Pak-81, Lu-26, Faisalabad-85, Punjab-85. Variations in crossability of different wheat varieties with one Aegilops species and of various Aegilops species with one wheat variety were highly significant. Possible factor(s) underlying these variations are discussed.
23778593|One hundred and seventeen conventional inbred lines, and 50 high-protein lines were evaluated for g lysine/100 g dry matter, g lysine/100 g crude protein and g crude protein/100 g dry matter, and appreciable variability was observed for these traits. Study of high-protein lines indicated considerable progress for crude protein content. There was a negative correlation between crude protein in dry matter and lysine in crude protein, and these two traits showed a positive correlation with lysine in dry matter.
90002660|Agricultural producers who possess large areas of arable land and a lot of machinery can achieve substantial savings, thus improving their business performance, if they manage to ensure adequate assignment of machinery to appropriate jobs during the entire production cycle. When attempting to establish the optimum assignment set of agricultural machinery, a variety of factors need to be taken into consideration, for example the features of human and technical resources engaged in production, weather conditions, characteristics of soil and crops, distance of fields from the machinery storage space. In this domain it is possible to use the assignment model as a decision support. The initial assignment model, which is deterministic in character, has undergone improvements in this paper by means of computer simulation, which makes it suitable for usage in conditions of uncertainty, which are quite common in agriculture. In the proposed model, simulation is carried out for the values of all the parameters estimated to be stochastic. On the basis of scores assigned according to set criteria, the efficiency matrix is then formed, whose elements represent the expected benefits from assigning the machinery to particular activities in agriculture. The optimum assignment set of agricultural machinery is the one in which the sum of efficiency for all assignments is maximum. Usage of modern information technologies is an essential prerequisite for implementing the model discussed in this paper.
90002939|Inbred sugar sorghum lines (Sorghum bicolour L/Moench.) were examined in the point of view sugar and cellulose production for breeding hybrids for energetic utilization. We measured the sugar content of 32 lines by refractometric method, and the cellulose content of 53 inbred lines by acidic digestion method.
23786180|The aim of the investigations was to identify and select the starting material capable of producing differentiated callus and well-growing suspension cultures from immature embryos and inflorescences. The cultivars have been ranked in order of decreasing ability for callus induction on the basic of callus mass. The ability for callus differentiation has been also compared, based upon intensity of the process. Finally, the number of regenerated plants was recorded. All explants of both immature embryos and inflorescences of the examined cultivars were capable of callus induction. However, the genotypic differences were statistically significant. The greatest mass of callus/embryo was obtained from the cvs. Sakwa, Olcha, Kobra and Almari, and the smallest from the cvs. Korweta and Emika. The greatest mass of callus/inflorescence was obtained from the cvs. Kaja and Zorza. The most intensive callus differentiation was observed from cvs. Almari, Emika, Sakwa and Korweta. Cvs. Tercja and Maltanka regenerated the greatest number of plants per gram of callus. Some tissues were maintained for a long-term culture. The growth index (GI) of callus in successive transfers has also been determined. Suspension cultures from calli both of immature embryo and inflorescence origin of cv. Kaja have been initiated. The growth kinetics of these suspensions was evaluated on the basis of settled and packed cell volume, fresh and dry mass during 17 days of culture. Increase of these parameters was similar for both explants showing that they are equally good sources of the suspension culture.
23785352|A pair of primers was desingned from conserved regions of the Tri5 genes of Fusarium sporotrichioides, F. poae, Gibberella pulicaris, and G. zeae. A test panel of 64 different species and varieties of Fusarium, as well as isolates belonging to other fungal genera, bacteria, and plants was tested for a positive reaction in an optimized PCR assay. A fragment of the appropriate size (650 bp) was produced with DNA of 18 species and varieties of Fusarium and of Cladobotryum dendroides NRRL 2903. The method was used to detect trichothecene producing fusaria in contaminated wheat malt samples. Tri5-PCR product sequences were used for the development of primers specific to subgroups of trichotecene producers.
23786177|The effects of planting date, cultivar, and seed treatments on wheat leaf rust (Puccinia triticina Ericks) were studied in the 1995 and 1996 at two sites in Louisiana. Three winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars, differing in susceptibility to leaf rust, were planed 21 to 35 days early and at a recommended date. FFR 525 was susceptible, Coker 9835 was moderately susceptible, and Pioneer brand 2566 was moderately resistant to prevelent races of leaf rust. Seed fungicide treatments were: Vitavax 200 and Baytan 30 plus Captan 30DD, plus a non-treated control. Across cultivars, early planting resulted in higher leaf rust levels in both years compared to planting wheat at the later date. The rust susceptible FFR 525W, when planted at the recommended date, had lower areas under rust progress curves than when planted early. The moderately resistant Pioneer 2566 may be planted early or at the recommended date, while Coker 9835 should be planted at the recommended date. Seed treatment fungicides provided limited control of leaf rust in only one environment. Planting within the recommended planting period with a resistant cultivar provided the most reliable disease control.
90003421|The effect of three microbial consortia (comprise of
23786830|Twenty-six samples of maize kernels collected at harvest time from geographically different corn field in Slovakia were examined for the occurrence of Fusarium species. The most frequently species were: F. moniliforme, F. proliferatum, F. subglutinans. Other species isolated included F. graminearum, F. semitectum, F. nivale, F. anthophylum, F. coreuleum.
90002795|The crude protein and protein, free amino acid and nitrate contents in potato tubers of five varieties growing in organic and conventional crop management systems were studied in the field experiment. Field trials were carried out on two localities of different altitude and soil conditions. Mean content of crude protein was significantly higher in tubers from organic crop management than in tubers from conventional system (11.02 and 9.83 % in dry matter, respectively). Similar result was observed in protein content (in organic 5.51% and in conventional 5.08 % in dry matter, respectively). Variety was the factor having the highest direct effect on crude protein as well as protein contents. Tubers from conventional crop management showed an increased tendency to accumulate nitrates.
90003106|The organic matter of soils is an important element of soil fertility. In our experiment by administration of compost we tried to improve the physical properties and the nitrogen supply of the soil We composted sewage-sludge in the two chamber ripening compost equipment of Kommunlis Szolgltat Kft., Gyr (Communal Services and Sewage Farm Ltd.). The sewage sludge was used for the production of biogas. Due to the fermentation a part of the organic matter content was microbiologically decomposed. After a ripening period of six months the compost was brought out to the fields and incorporated into the soil by ploughing. Different doses of compost was applied. To compare the effect of the compost NPK fertiliser was also applied. Maize was the test plant. As a result of the treatments yields rapidly increased, and zinc and copper accumulation was to be detected among toxic elements.
23782849|Two hundred fifty six hexaploid triticale lines and one wheat variety WH-147 were evaluated for their biomass production, harvest index and grain yield. Only 17 percent of the triticales exceeded wheat in biomass production and 3.9 percent in case of harvest index. On an average grain yield, biomass and harvest index were lower in triticale than in wheat. Significant positive correlation was observed between biomass and yield. Harvest index and yield were also observed to be positively associated. However, correlation between biomass and harvest index was anomalous. Based on these observations, a selection criterion including biomass and harvest index was suggested to ameliorate the triticale.
23787267|Time to awn emergence and leaf number on the main culm were recorded for 10 barley cultivars grown under a short and long photoperiod after 4 weeks cold treatment at 4C; the appearance of leaves on the main stem was also recorded at regular intervals. There were differences among the cultivars for photoperiod response and the duration of the basic vegetative phase. Photoperiod response tended to be complementary with basic vegetative phase, as one increased the other decreased and vice versa. Leaf appearance generally did not differ significantly between photoperiod treatments. In the short day, leaf appearance continued for a longer period with more leaves produced on the main stem. Leaf appearance as a function of time was best described by a cubic or a quadratic exponential polynomial function. The absolute rate of leaf appearance (leaves d1) under short day showed an increase to a maximum followed by a decrease to a minimum and then a further increase. Under long day, three patterns of absolute rate of leaf appearance were evident. There was a rapid increase to a maximum followed by either a rapid or more gradual decline; in several cultivars the pattern was similar to the one seen for the cultivars in the short day treatment, although it was somewhat truncated. The significance of photoperiod response and basic vegetative phase are discussed in relation to crop adaptation and the change in the absolute rate of leaf appearance is discussed in relation to the stage of plant development.
23789857|Maize breeding, on which the future of maize production is based, can be expected to undergo further important developments in the 21st century. Opportunities for development are latent in a more scientific approach to production methods and in the better exploitation of the available genetic resources. There is no lack of favourable gene combinations contributing to higher yield (e.g. 2022 t/ha). However, the genes and gene combinations controlling the improvement and stabilisation of performance are unfortunately scattered over various different races, varieties and individual plants, where they occur at low frequency. Combination breeding and, more recently, cumulative source management are designed to collect these genes and concentrate them in special parental lines and heterosis sources. The pure line method has been a basic procedure in maize breeding for the last 100 years, and is likely to remain so for the next 100 years. Combination breeding and cumulative source management are an integral part of this method. The concentration of favourable genes has been facilitated to an unexpected extent by the use of this method. When breeding open-pollinated varieties all the gene combinations required had to be collected into a single population, while in the case of heterosis breeding it is sufficient if the male and female parents each contain half the required gene combinations. These are then combined automatically in the course of crossing. Over the last 20 years too little attention has been paid to the breeding of basic material, so the number of heterosis sources has declined and some have become eroded due to unsupervised mixing. There have been few reports on the development of new heterosis sources vying in quality with earlier sources. In the course of hybrid maize breeding, closely related pedigrees have been crossed to develop new elite lines in the hope of quick results. Due to the lack of substantial initial divergence this is unlikely to result in any great increase in yield. Authoritative opinions consider this to be the reason for the slower rate of yield increase, and for the very small differences now existing between the yield levels of rival hybrids. There is no lack of genetic resources, but more attention should be paid to the careful breeding of basic materials. The future of maize breeding will depend on the discovery of new gene combinations more efficient than those currently available, and on their successful concentration in different sources of heterosis.
23785290|In the semiarid Pampas of Argentina, durum wheat yields are highly dependent on rain distribution and N availability, and consequently very variable. The aim of this study was to determine if simple phenotypic parameters, evaluated at the spike differentiation stage, which in term are influenced by prevailing environmental conditions, can be used to predict grain and protein yield, with a certain precision at an early enough stage of the crop cycle to allow interventive decisions. In order to assess the influence of the developmental stage of the main stem apex (APEX), the number of tillers per square meter (TILL) and the dry matter production (DMW), upon grain yield, thirteen trials were conducted in the Semiarid Pampas over two years, with two durum wheat cultivars (Buck Cristal and Buck Candisur), two fertilization treatments: unfertilized (YUNF) and 138 kg N ha (YFER) at the end of tillering. Multiple linear regression analysis was performed. Kernel weight, protein content and protein production per unit area were also regressed with APEX, TILL and DMW. For each model variables were selected with the "forward" selection STEPWISE procedure in the SMDP New System computer program package. In the best model, APEX and TILL significantly predicted grain yield of unfertilized plots at the spike differentiation period (R2 = 0.596; p 0.01). These variables also correlated significantly with kernel weight and protein production, although these results must be considered as preliminary ones.
23784267|Chromosome pairing configurations in PMCs at MI in Chinese Spring (CS) ph1b  Ae. crassa, CS ph1b  Ae. syriacum, and CS  Ae. syriacum were studied. It was obvious that the ph1b gene could induce homologous chromosome pairing. Backcrosses of the two ph1b hybrids with CS indicated that it should be possible to induce the transfer of genes from the wild species into the cultivated using the ph1b system.
90002940|The reutilization of residues of the bio-energy processes in crop production is important to realize nutrient cycling in agriculture. Studying the effect of these residues, the nutrient contents of four ashes remained from combustion process of different biomasses were analysed as well as the effect of a selected poultry litter ash on plant and soil characteristic in pot experiment. For all ashes the very high percentage of the total phosphorus (P) was found in a good available form for plant uptake. All ashes increased the yield and P uptake of test plants as well as the soil pH. The use of secondary raw materials in agriculture provides an opportunity for waste recycling and an adequate substitute for commercial P fertilizers.
23784214|The major aim of this experiment was to compare the effectivness of RFLP probes and RAPD primers in evaluating genetic diversity and separating different groups of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). For this purpose, five barley varieties were chosen to represent different groups based on growth habit and head type. They were tested parallel with 12 RFLP probes in five enzyme combinations and with 19 RAPD primers. The number of DNA products and the frequency of the polymorphic bands generated by RAPD primers were higher than those obtained with the RFLP probes. The value of the polymorphic bands averaged over all the variety x primer or all the variety x probe x enzyme combinations was 3.50 for the RAPD primers and 0.82 for the RFLP probes. On the other hand RFLP was more informative as there was much lower variation in the estimations of genetic diversity using the individual RFLP probes than using the individual RAPD primers. There was a definite distinction between the different groups of barley with RFLP, while only the variety with two-rowed heads was separated from the others with RAPD. The correlation between the JD genetic diversity values generated by the two methods was r2=0.69. Based on the results, RFLP probes appear more efficient in establishing a reliable grouping of relatedness between varieties, while RAPD primers are more effective than the RFLP probes in giving a good characterisation of individual varieties and breeding materials.
90003351|Cultivated plants during the vegetation period are exposed to various abiotic stress factors (such as chill, drought, storm in addition to undesirable soil effects). The main task, from a breeding point of view, is the development of genotypes with better adaptability to environment conditions and soil properties. Irrespective of weather the hybrids are developed
23783739|Doubled haploid mutant lines were obtained with the use of two different methods of mutagenic treatment. The Bulbosum technique was applied for doubled haploid production. Semi-dwarf DH mutant lines were found and evaluated in multi-replication trials in field conditions in DHM3 generation. A high frequency of mutations of Est loci was demonstrated among analyzed DH lines.
90002957|Seed oil content in sunflower is very important trait for seed production and breeding. Aim of this research was to estimate stability of oil content of seven single cross and seven three-way cross hybrids in different environments. The trials were set up on the three locations (Osijek- Eastern Slavonia County, Karanac- Baranja County and Ferianci- Western Slavonia County) during 2002 and 2003 growing seasons. Estimation of stability was conducted by regression coefficient and AMMI model. Oil content was lower in conditions of rainfall deficit and high temperatures in flowering time and during seed maturity process. Three-way cross hybrids had slightly higher oil content. According to regression coefficient, most of the hybrids were stable. According to AMMI model, the most stable hybrids were experimental hybrids OS-H-103 S, OSH-219 S, OS-H-259 S, OS-H-59 T and OS-H-189 T. Hybrid Apolon had the highest oil content and it was adapted to high yielding environments. Hybrid Fakir was according to, both regression coefficient and AMMI model, adapted to low yielding environments.
23782890|Early-maturing varieties of spring wheat must combine high productivity with resistance to environmental stresses occurring at different stages of their development. Thus the varieties of an intensive type must have and retain 1000-1500 ear stems/m2 at grain weight of 0,8-0,9g/ear, providing the sufficient moisture content(600 mm of annual precipitation rate). Using hybridization of distant eco-geographical forms and selection of the transgressive forms early-maturing varieties (Druzhyna,Spectre) and advanced lines were developed.
23782892|Three strains of hexaploid triticale namely UPT 78268, UPT 75233, and UPT 7681 and two varieties of hexaploid spring wheats namely UP 2003 and UP 262 were taken to study seed germination, mitotic index, seedling growth, mitosis and plant height. It was found that in triticale, bigger the seed more was the germination but this was not observed in wheats. A higher mitotic index resulted in a greater seedling height. Varieties showing wider adaptability and a better grain type had a higher mitotic index. Maximum abnormalities at mitosis were observed in UPT 78268, whereas wheats showed a normal mitosis.
90003450|Nutrient deficiency in soil and plant system can be stressed the optimum growth of plants. Manganese is a potential environmental stressor in case of crops at early stages of growth since Mn
23780333|Parents with different generations of three crosses of wheat viz. HD 2160  UP 368, Sonalika  WG 377 and Sonalika  WH 157 were studied for the number of ears per plant, the number of grains per ear and 1000 grain weight. Additive genetic variance was found to be significant for all the characters in each cross. Additive  additive, additive dominance and dominance  dominance types of epistasis were also important for all these characters except for the number of grains per ear in crosses Sonalika  WG 377 and Sonalika  WH 157. Duplicate type of epistasis was recorded for number of ears per plant and 1000 grain weight in cross Sonalika  WH 377 and for the number of grains per ear and 1000 grain weight in cross HD 2160  UP 368, whereas complimentary type of epistasis was observed for 1000 grain weight in cross Sonalika  WH 157. It is suggested that by simultaneous exploitation of epistasis as well as additive gene effects through the adoption of biparental mating system and multiple crossing followed by selection, it will be possible to bring about further genetic improvement in grain yield in wheat.
23786835|The FHB is a disease that appears irregularly in most wheat producing area. Therefore artificial inoculation tests are needed to breed effectively for resistance. It is easy to produce symptoms under artificial inoculation conditions. However, their meaning is often not clear. Many possible methodical problems should be considered to have a data basis for solid conclusions. High level of resistance in winter wheat can be achieved by using spring wheat sources or winter wheat genotypes. Our program has breeding results in both directions. It is not enough to determine only the FHB reaction. Yield, kernel infection and DON response should also be considered. They can deliver additional information on the nature of resistance, as tolerance, DON resistance or kernel infection resistance that are of high importance to choose the best of the mostly susceptible commercial genotypes grown now on millions of hectares.
23786905|The reaction of 20 pea genotypes (Pisum sativum L., Pisum arvense L.) to the filtrates of Fusarium oxysporum, F. solani, F. poae and F. semitectum was searched. Experiments were carried out on the levels of intact plants and in vitro cultures. Degree of resistance / sensitivity was evaluated as the regeneration capacity. Convenience of using tissue cultures for the resistance tests and dependence and connection of the resistance to the filtrates and to fungi is discussed. Research is focused on the improvement of the breeding process.
23789300|Choice of an appropriate donor of alleles for use in reselection programs of existing inbred lines of maize (Zea mays L.) is crucial to the success of such programs. Well-adapted local inbred lines might be used as donors to improve a target genotype. The objectives of this study were to: (i) evaluate Serbian maize inbred lines as donors of favorable alleles for improvement of a single cross hybrid and (ii) estimate Dudley's relationship values to determine which inbred parent should be improved. Evaluation of four donor lines as sources of new favorable alleles for the yield of grain yield not present in the elite hybrid parent line was conducted, (Dudley, 1987a; 1987b). Each of the potential donors had significant values of the parameter G, so they can be used as the sources of new alleles in the improvement of elite hybrid A654 x Fu4 yield. The greatest number of favorable new alleles for the improvement of grain yield of hybrid A654 x Fu4 was recorded in inbred line ZPLB368. The improvement of yield in hybrid A654 x Fu4 would be conducted by improving inbred parent Fu4, since all donor lines showed higher genetic parentage with this parent than with A654. The best way for developing initial population is self-fertilization of F1 generation (Pw x Fu4), which would allow greatest probability for obtaining new lines (improved Fu4).
23781328|Field experiments were conducted to determine the performance of sorghum genotypes (viz. CSH-5, CSH-6 and CSV-3) at varying planting geometries (viz. 4512 cm, 609 cm and 1204.5 cm) during rainy seasons (June to October) of 1976 and 1977 on fertile silty loam soils. Entry CSH-5 yielded highest followed by CSH-6 and then CSV-3. At a constant plant population (180000 plants/ha), a 4512 cm planting geometry appeared to be the best for grain production of sorghum. Grain yields were depressed at other planting geometries, though moderate or no yield depressions were observed at 609 cm planting geometry. The deleterious effects of wide row spacing (viz. 906 cm and 1204.5 cm) on grain yield/ha was mainly due to severely reduced number of panicles/ha. Experiments were also conducted to examine the performance of CSH-6, a dwarf hybrid with semi-erectophyle canopy, at varying plant populations (150, 200, 250 and 300 thousand plants/ha). row spacings (45 and 60 cm) and nitrogen rates (80 and 120 kg N/ha). Hybrid CSH-6 exhibited an increasing trend, though nonsignificant in one of the two experiments, in grain yield/ha with increasing plant population upto 250000 plants/ha mainly because of increased number of panicles/ha. Both the row spacings (45 and 60 cm) were equally good for final productivity of crop. An application of 120 kg N/ha caused little improvement in grain yield/ha over 80 kg N/ha.
23783110|Triploid hybrids between diploid Triticum speltoides and induced autotetraploid T. longissimum were made and cytologically studied. Optimization of the meiotic data showed that they fit the 2:1 model best, with x = 0.951. This suggests that the two species contain genomes which are comparatively distant from, rather than similar to, each other.
90003402|Drought is one of the most common environmental stresses that may limit agricultural production worldwide. To overcome the drought problems efficiently, an innovative sustainable irrigation technique called Partial Root Drying (PRD) was proposed. PRD is an irrigation technique where half of the root zone is irrigated while the other half is allowed to dry out. The treatment is then reversed, allowing the previously well-watered side of the root system to dry down while fully irrigating the previously dry side. The PRD benefit is in the terms of improved water-use efficiency (IWUE). The aim of presented work was to compare the effects of PRD with full irrigation (FI) on yield of field-grown potato, and to test for effects of PRD on IWUE, tuber yield and quality. The experiments were conducted during 2007 and 2008 seasons. In PRD treatment in 2007 season 70% of the irrigation water in FI was applied to one half of the root system, although in 2008 season PRD was applied dynamically (by replacing 70% PRD with 50% PRD in last two weeks). Irrigation scheduling was based on evapotranspiration and soil water data (measured by TDR). Experimental results for both seasons confirmed that with PRD irrigation it is possible to increase IWUE, save water for irrigation and increase quality of potato tuber (starch content).
23786232|The form of nutrient solution nitrogen (NH4-N or NO3-N) provided to plants can have profound influence upon the severity of many crop diseases. It is not known if nutrient solution nitrogen form would affect wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) resistance to bird cherry-oat aphids (Rhopalosiphum padi L.). The objectives of our growth chamber experiments were to determine if the form of nitrogen provided in plant nutrient solutions affected aphid population growth parameters or the ability of wheat to withstand infestation. For aphid population growth experiments, winter wheat plants were watered with a complete nutrient solution containing NO3-N or NH4-N for 13 d prior to infestation with nymphs. The time period to adulthood and the number of progeny produced were recorded. For plant growth experiments, spring wheat plants were grown in sand culture using half-strength complete nutrient solution containing NO3-N or NH4-N. Approximately 100 apterous aphids were applied to half of the plants 7 d after germination. Plants were harvested for shoot and root fresh weight measurement 6 days after infestation. Aphid population growth (development time, number of aphids produced, and intrinsic rate of increase) were not significantly affected by nutrient solution N form treatments. Plants grown with NH4-N nutrient solutions had significantly less shoot fresh weight (0.181 g for NH4-N; 0.230 g for NO3-N). Aphid infestation also significantly reduced shoot fresh weight (0.149 g in infested; 0.262 g in control). There were no significant interactions between nutrient solution N form and aphid treatments for shoot fresh weight. Aphid treatment did not reduce root fresh weight in plants given NO3-N nutrient solution (aphid infested = 0.15 g; control = 0.15 g), but did in plants given NH4-N nutrient solution (aphid infested = 0.11 g; control = 0.17 g). Thus, while N form given to wheat plants had no effect on aphid population growth characteristics, plants given NH4-N nutrient solution showed less root growth than plants given the NO3-N nutrient solutions.
23790040|The International Triticeae Mapping Initiative (ITMI) recombinant inbred line (RIL) population was used to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) underlying some key agronomic characters in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Trait measurements were taken from five independent field experiments performed in Serbia. Stable across environment QTL involved in the determination of heading/flowering time and ear morphology/grain yield were detected on, respectively, chromosome arms 2DS and 4AL. These map locations are consistent with those obtained where the same population has been grown in contrasting geographical sites. However, as a result of QTL x environment interactions, not all these QTL are expressed in all environments. Nevertheless the (pleiotropic) effect on ear morphology appears to be expressed in almost all environments, and so represents a high value target for wheat improvement.
23781438|Selected growth regulators and herbicides, previously reported to inhibit alpha-amylase synthesis or activity in seeds, were applied on one or two occasions, to ears of wheat borne on pot plants grown in a glasshouse. Spray treatments with ABA, Ethrel (late applications only) and Chlormequat were associated with significantly lower enzyme activities than the control.
23783769|New cytoplasmic-genetic male sterility systems have been developed in grain sorghum which increases variability and reduces genetic vulnerability. Our study was conducted to compare agronomic characteristics of hybrids with A1 and A2 backgrounds. Hybrids were evaluated under ten different environments (five under irrigation and five under dryland conditions). Results indicated that cytoplasm type did not affect significantly grain yield, grain moisture content, plant height, panicle lenght and panicle excertion. Under irrigated conditions A2 hybrids flowering occurred one day later than in A1 hybrids. Such similarity on both cytoplasms (A1 and A2) and that little difference in days to flowering suggests that A2 cytoplasm can be exploited to develop commercial hybrids as an alternative to milo cytoplasm (A1).
23783893|The race composition and virulence of wheat powdery mildew as well as the effect of known resistance genes on the pathogen have been studied in Martonvsr since 1970. The powdery mildew population is very heterogeneous; a total of 72 physiological races were isolated, with between 15 (1993) and 35 (1986) races being identified each year. Within the pathogen population, the number of virulence genes per race rose steadily from 2.03 (1973) to 5.63 (1993). Significant changes have occurred in the race composition and virulence of the pathogen. Correlation coefficient (r) calculations and the results of principal component analysis (PCA) have confirmed that the wheat powdery mildew population during the period in question can be divided into at least four distinct groups on the basis of race composition and degree of virulence. The vast majority of powdery mildew isolates is virulent to genotypes with known resistance genes. Complete resistance is only provided by gene Pm 4a. The cultivation of varieties with vertical resistance due to the resistance genes Pm 8 and, probably, Pm 2+6 has led to a change in the race composition and virulence of the pathogen. With the spread of races virulent to resistant genotypes, previously resistant varieties have become susceptible, so the search for new resistance sources providing efficient biological protection is a constant necessity, requiring the breeding and cultivation of new, resistant varieties. Resistance breeding is thus a permanent process. Among the wheat varieties developed in Martonvsr, Mv 22, Mv 23, Mv 24, Mv 25, Mv Magma and Fatima 2 have good powdery mildew resistance.
23783977|During the frost testing of Chinese Spring ditelosomics, genes responsible for frost resistance were found on the short and long arms of chromosome 7A and on the long arms of chromosomes 5A, 3B, 5B, 7B and 5D. Since, monosomic and substitution analysis indicated that genes responsible for frost resistance were carried by chromosomes 5A, 5B and 5D, it can be taken as proved that these genes are located on the long arms of the chromosomes.
23789919|Maize dwarf mosaic is the most widespread virus disease affecting corn production in Hungary and Bulgaria. Samples from virus infected maize were collected from different part of Bulgaria and employed test plants, ELISA serological method and RT-PCR in order to identify the viral pathogen. Maize dwarf mosaic virus (MDMV) was detected in all tested samples. For further investigation three MDMV isolates were selected and cloned. Cloned cDNAs representing the coat protein gene of the virus have been sequenced. The coat protein genes of Bulgarian and Hungarian isolates of MDMV were compared. The nucleotide sequence identity and amino acid sequence similarity of the coat protein region varied from 88% to 99.1% and from 95.1% to 99.6%, respectively. The N-terminal region of coat protein was compared with other members SCMV subgroup and phylogenetic tree was constructed.
23782852|Field surveys were used to monitor hybrid susceptibility and as regional probe for natural aflatoxin contamination of corn (Zea mays L.) kernels in the 1986 Louisiana state yield trials. The investigation compared the activity of Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus in developing kernels by comparing natural occurrence of aflatoxin B1, B2 (A. flavus) with B1, B2, G1, G2 (A. parasiticus) in mature grain. A mean level of 390 ppb of aflatoxin B1 was observed in samples of a susceptible hybrid from both locations studied. Location-dependent differences among hybrids were found. A dominant occurrence of A. flavus was observed in full-season hybrids at Alexandria and of A. parasiticus at Baton Rouge, whereas an inverse fungal/location association was observed in medium-season hybrids. About 28% of the full-season hybrids had greater than 20 ppb of toxin, and 18% of the medium-early-season hybrids had levels of aflatoxin greater than 20 ppb.
23784033|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) heads were covered with plastic bags for 24h following inoculation with Fusarium graminearum (Schw.) to promote infection in screening wheat for genetic resistance. Black bags were the most effective in differentiating between resistant and susceptible cultivars in two dry years but not in a rainy, humid year. As the incidence of scab increased the incidence of Alternaria decreased.
23786782|The effect of NPK fertiliser combinations on the development of eyespot was studied both in the greenhouse and in the field. Low levels of nitrogen fertilisers (urea) were found to reduce the severity of eyespot on wheat in comparison to controls without fertilisers. The severity of eyespot, however, increased as the dosage of nitogen fertiliser was increased above 60 kg/ha. Combinations of urea and phosphorus increased severity of eyespot while combinations with potassium reduced severity. A "recommendation" was made for such application: 90 kgN/ha or 90 kgN: 30 kgP/ha: 30 kgK/ha.
23788189|Observations of the flight of the western corn rootworm (WCR) were made necessary by its appearance and settling in 2004 and by the possibilities of control. Therefore studies were carried out using Pherocon AM traps in a 111,1 ha maize stand sown after sunflower. The 6 traps were placed at the edge and in the inside of the field, respectively. The influence of the meteorological elements on flight was determined by comparing the temperature and precipitation to the flight of WCR adults. The results obtained with the traps unambiguously pointed to the late summer, onepeak adult flight of the WCR. The rather late mass flight can be attributed to the influence of climatic factors. Toward the end of the vegetation cycle of maize, beside the appearance in high individual numbers (an average of 141and 142 adults trapped a week) the proportion of gravid females (25-28% on 29 July; 38-42% on 5 August) was found to increase in the area, which forecasts a mass appearance of the next year's generation. The traps at the edge of the field caught a higher number of adults than those in the inside [averages of the trapping controls for traps at the edge: 3,00 (trap 1.); 2,67 (trap 2.); 3,44 (trap 3.); 2,78 (trap 4), while for the inner traps: equally 4,56 (trap 5.,6.)] Toward the end of flight the difference decreased.
23790342|The drought stress in the rain-fed regions of West Asia and North Africa strongly depends on residual soil water available for the reproductive plant growth. The water uptake ability (i.e. water consumption per unit dry matter per day) of three synthetic-derived bread wheat genotypes, SYN-8, SYN-10 and SYN-15, and their parental variety Cham 6 were examined under controlled conditions. In addition, yield performance was compared under one artificial environment with supplemental irrigation and ten rain-fed environments at two locations over five cropping seasons. Large differences were found in water uptake ability among the four wheat genotypes; SYN-8 had the highest and SYN-10 the lowest ability. These differences were reflected in decrease of soil water content and increase of leaf temperature after irrigation. Under field conditions of supplemental irrigation, there were no significant differences in grain yield among genotypes Cham 6, SYN-8 and SYN-10; however, SYN-15 had lower grain yield due to low harvest index. Significant differences of the grain yield were found between SYN-8 and SYN-10 grown in rain-fed conditions. Lower water uptake ability was associated with higher grain yield; this speculates that intensive extraction of water from soil during vegetative growth might increase biomass production, but leave inadequate available soil moisture for reproductive growth and grain production. The balancing of water consumption by plants with stored soil moisture over the whole growing period is a major attribute of drought adaptation in these synthetic-derived wheat genotypes.
90003013|One of the biggest challenges for the safe maize production is the yield stability in a wide range of environments with different soil fertility, weather conditions, prevailing pests and diseases as well as cultural practices. In order to achieve it, new hybrids with higher tolerance to biotic and abiotic stress are continuously being created. In order to compare performance of maize hybrids in environments with different levels and types of stress, and relate it to the stalk lodging incidence, we compared performance of 64 maize hybrids obtained by crossing 16 inbred lines with four inbred testers in three different environments. Two environments at same location (Rugvica) differed in crop rotation, and the third environment at location Botinec was considered as dry because of low water capacity of the soil. Mixed models that included all design elements and genetic background of hybrids were used to analyze the effect of lodging on yield in different environments. The results show that stalk lodging had a significant effect on yield, but significant lodging x environment interaction indicates that this effect was rather environment specific.
23786842|Phenotypic mass-plant selection was applied to the male-sterile plants in two populations, GPI and GPII, to improve resistance to scab and agronomic traits simultaneously. Selection cycles 0 and 3 were evaluated for the resistance and agronomic characters under the condition of single-floret inoculation with Fusarium graminearum. The mean resistance of each population was significantly enhanced by 3 cycles of selection with an increased frequency of resistant plants. The selection response averaged 7.87% and 3.24% per cycle for GPI and GPII, respectively. For most agronomic traits, such as numbers of spikes and grains, biomass and grain yield per plant, harvest index, and grain number and weight per spike, selection gains from 6% to 49% were obtained from C0 to C3. It is shown that scab resistance and agronomic traits in wheat can be comprehensively improved through recurrent selection.
23787247|Two cultivars of spring wheat, Hongmang and Mianyang 11 (Triticum aestivum L.), were used in this study. PEG simulated and soil cultivated methods were used for seeds seedling establishment process of spring wheat. The results indicated that, critical water potential of surrounding medium in which seedling is able to survive, at the stages of active axis extension, germination, plumule elongation and emergence were 2.16, 1.94, 1.05 and 2.87 MPa, respectively. It suggested that plumule elongation of the cell expanding growth was the most sensitive stage to water stress. Under the water stress conditions, seedling water potential depressed and the water potential deviation between seedling and the medium was maintained by osmotic adjustment, the latter results in continuing water uptake and slowly growth. On the ATP energy level, the seedling drought resistance mechanism during establishment process was also discussed in this paper.
23787183|The response of various wheat cultivars, stabilized wheat-wheatgrass lines and intergeneric wheat amphidiploids to in vitro cultivation on nutrient media containing 5 % and 10 % polyethylene glycol 6000 MW (Sigma) was studied. Immature embryos from the wheat cultivars Bezostaya, Sadovo and Russalka, wheat-wheatgrass lines No 31, No36 and No68 as well as the amphidiploids Triticum durum/Haynaldia villosa, T. durum/Thinopyrum elongatum and T. aestivum/Th. elongatum were cultivated on different nutrient media to initiate callus induction. About 81.90% - 97.40% of the wheat cultivars and lines, and 55.70% - 71.90% of the amphidiploids produced calli. The genotypes differed considerably in regeneration frequency (percentage of regenerants producing embryogenic calli) and propagation coefficient (regenerants per callus). Best rooting occurred on the control nutrient medium, without polyethylene glycol, significant differences between the genotypes being observed. Polyethylene glycol in the selective media largely suppressed rooting (lower percentage of well-rooted regenerants compared to the controls of all genotypes). The genotypes studied were found to be relatively tolerant to drought, wheat-wheatgrass lines No31 and amphidiploid T. durum/H. villosa expressing the highest adaptability potential. Therefore, they can be efficiently involved in various wheat breeding programs in order to improve wheat drought resistance.
23788056|Durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.) is the main cereal crop in Italy, mostly cultivated in Southern and Central regions. Improving grain yield has been the primary objective of most national breeding programs until the end of the '70s. The objective of this study was to evaluate durum wheat yield stability improvements achieved in Italy over twenty years through the national breeding programs. Data from 10 coordinated field trials carried out over two 3-year periods (197779 and 1996-98) were considered. Analysis of the mean yield, linear regression coefficients (b), coefficients of variability (CV), coefficients of determination (r2) and deviations from the regression (S2d) allowed us to identify, for each period considered, remarkable differences among different cultivars in terms of yield and yield stability. The stability analysis clearly identified, during 1977-79, two different subgroups of genotypes. The first (b<1) included cultivars registered in the National Durum Wheat collection before 1974 (Cappelli, Capeiti 8, Trinakria. Appulo, Isa 1), having high adaptability to low-input environments. In contrast, the second subgroup (b>1) included semi-dwarf cultivars such as Valnova, Valgerardo, Creso and Valfiora, highly sensitive to environmental variability and pronounced responsiveness to high-input environments. In 1996-1998 yield stability became a primary target. Therefore the national breeding programs promoted comparative trials over-time and over-space. All cultivars selected in those years had b values close to 1 and their mean yield was significantly higher compared to the 1977-79 cultivars. As a result, the most recent cultivars possess both high adaptability traits (typical of those tall cultivars selected in arid and semiarid regions before the 70s) and high yield potential, a trait associated with Rht alleles (Creso and "Val" cultivars).
23778564|M. Kummer and C. Mikach: on a successful hybridization between the species Avena pilosa M. Blob and Avena magna murphy at Terrell In a conventional manner by crossing between A. pilosa (2n  14) as maternal partner and A. magna (2n  28) as paternal partner a F1 plant was produced, in which according to the results of morphological, biochemical and cytological analysis a complete unification of the chromesome sots of both parents is present. The direkt check of the homology relationships between the chromosomes of both species, becoming possibly by this for the first time, has only a very small partial homology discerned. Results of electrophorotic Isozyme analysis with leaf extracts of 12 Avena species and the behaviour of the pilosa/magna hybrid after application of colchicine make close genetic relationships between the species A. pilosa and A. magna improbably. The actually valid conception for the genome structure of A. magna (AACC) cannot be confirmed for this reason. It is more probable, that A. magna possesses a second synthetic genome with smaller affinity to the genome C and greater affinity to the genome D of the hexaploid species besides the genome A. The genome structure of A. magna should be better symbolized by the genome formula AAMM, till presentation of further elucidating findings.
23783740|R2 generation of somaclones derived from wheat immature embryo cultures were used as standard material for measuring the frequency of R2 variant lines for several major characters. Three other somaclonal progenies, namely: M3R2 generation grown from the cultures of immature embryos collected from M1 plants with dry seeds irradiated before sowing, M2R2 generation from cultures with young embryos irradiated immediately prior to inoculations, and C2R2 from calli irradiated with 1 KR gamma-rays during the process of culture, were compared to the standard in terms of variant frequencies. No differences were found between M3R2 and the R2 populations, while the variant frequencies related to M2R2 and C2R2 significantly surpassed that in R2. It appeared that irradiation of explants and calli with an optimal dose could benefit the frequency increase and, to some extent, spectrum enlargement. In addition, four variation patterns, their frequency distribution, the order of variation occurrence and other relevant problems were also discussed in the paper.
23782730|We studied the pathogenecity of 203 isolates of Puccinia recondita f.sp. tritici on 25 'Thatcher' backcrossed lines each near isogenic for a known gene conditioning seedling resistance. Frequency of each corresponding gene for virulence in the pathogen was determined. Combinations for every possible pair of two host genes conferring best control of rust disease were identified by calculating the Pathogenecity Association Coefficient(PAC) and Virulence Association Coefficient(VAC). The most plausible combinations were found to result from an association of high PAC with low VAC. The perfect combinations of gene pairs Lr 2a, Lr 3Ka, Lr 9 and Lr 15 with Lr 19 or Lr 28; Lr 19 with Lr 20, Lr 24, Lr 25, Lr 28 or Lr 29; Lr 20, Lr 24, or Lr 25 with Lr 28 and finally Lr 28 with Lr 29, were found to demonstrate complete effectiveness of these gene pairs in controlling rust on wheat. It is therefore envisaged that utilization of one effective gene for adult plant resistance with any of the proposed two gene combinations could provide long term resistance in the future wheat cultivars of Pakistan.
90003277|
               
23792320|A diallel cross involving six wheat varieties, namely Sehar 06, Punjab 96, GA 2002, Barani 83, Kohistan 97 and Chakwal 86 was carried out to determine the mode of gene action for some physio-morphological traits under water stress conditions. Analysis of variance showed highly significant differences among genotypes for all the traits studied. Additive type of gene action with partial dominance was observed for flag leaf area, stomatal frequency, leaf venation, days to heading and spike density while 100-grain weight was controlled by over dominance. Additive type of gene actions shows the fruitfulness of early selection for the traits while over dominance type of gene action indicates selection in later generations. Epistasis was absent for all the traits studied.
23783075|Three winter wheat cultivars and their doubled haploid analogues were crossed with 3 tester varieties in factorial fashion. F1 performances were analysed for plant height, grain yield/plant, spikes/plant, grains/main head and 1000 kernel weight. Combining ability analysis showed that there were no significant differences between the general combining abilities of the cultivars and their doubled haploid analogues. It was established, that the complete homozygosity itself does not mean either advantage or disadvantage when these lines are used as hybrid parents.
23780410|If a mature wheat crop is left on the field, the grains often exhibit a longer dormancy period than if mature wheat is stored under laboratory conditions. Moreover, after-ripened grains may return to the dormant state, which then is called secondary dormancy. This is probably caused by low minimum temperatures and high relative humidies in the field. These effects should be taken into consideration when sprouting warnings are issued to the growers, and when cereal grains stored at 16 % moisture or higher display reduced germination.
90003473|Using the monitored soil water content profile data collected in three different land sites in 2006 water stress periods are presented depended on the alluvial soil layering, and the formation of the ground water table depths. Methodically, the soil moisture content profile data measured with the BR-150 moisture meter are converted to water potentials using the van Genuchten model fitted to measured water retention data by genetic horizons of soils at the three sites. The method allows the assigning of the critical water table depth depending on the actual crop growth phase, soil conditions together with the actual moisture content and the climatic conditions as air temperature and precipitation.
90002930|Around the city of Tuzla, BiH, soil covered coal ash disposal sites have been used for food and fodder production since 1992. To our knowledge this is the first report on the cultivation of coal ash disposal sites for agriculture purposes. We observed high concentrations of As and Ni in alkaline coal ash. In this paper, we investigated arsenic and nickel transport and accumulation in barley and soybean grown on substrates made up of different soil and ash ratios. After three growth in the greenhouse we observed significant differences (p<0.05) between the Ni enrichment coefficients of Dora cultivar of soybean and Rex cultivar of barley, but no significant difference between the As enrichment coefficients of soybean and barley. Dora cultivar of soybean and Rex cultivar of barley showed very low uptake of arsenic, the enrichment coefficient varied between 0.05 % and 0.51 % depending on the crop and the treatment. The nickel enrichment coefficient of Rex cultivar of barley varied between 0.01% and 0.94%. The enrichment coefficient for Ni in Dora cultivar of soybean indicated higher uptake and varied between 5.64% and 34.79%.
90003501|Stress caused by food-born biotic and abiotic environmental factors may influence physiology and pathology in humans and animals as well. Natural biotic mycotoxins produced by molds in the food chain can cause functional and developmental changes in bioelectric and biochemical parameters of the living organism. Anthropogenic abiotic pesticide use in the agriculture has also some risks disturbing life processes. Mycotoxins and agrochemicals applied together may result in multitoxic anomalies. The proposed sensitive biotesting methods evaluating quantified modifications of bioelectric and biochemical parameters of
23783659|Haploid plants were produced from ten alloplasmic lines of wheat (Triticum aestivum L. var. Chinese Spring) through crosses with Hordeum bulbosum following treatment with 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacatic acid (2,4-D). Frequencies of embryo formation in wheat lines crossed with H. bulbosum were increased by treating with 2,4-D. Only Aegilops ovata cytoplasm had a favorable effect on embryo formation. However, cytoplasmic differences did not affect regeneration from cultured embryos to haploid plants.
23790070|Dough mixing properties are important in determining wheat processing and end-use quality. The Reomixer is a mixograph type device which provides mixing curves, described in detail by a total of 17 parameters. We analyzed the Reomixer mixing parameters of 26 breeding lines grown in 2007, in four contrasting environments (with and without Nitrogen fertilization, under water stress or irrigated). Using these data, we attempted to condense the information by identifying the most suitable parameters for use in a breeding program. We used the following criteria: high reproducibility (minimum coefficient of variation among repetitions), high genotype influence (i.e. high heritability), larger amount of information about overall variation of the other mixing parameters and complementarity of information (low correlation with other selected parameters). Mixing parameters varied widely for all criteria and no one parameter was best for all of them. Based on average performance we selected: "initial slope", "peak time", "peak height", "end width" and "breakdown", as having better ranking for the first three criteria and being less correlated between themselves than other mixing parameters. The five selected parameters cover all phases of dough development and describe all basic rheological aspects of mixing properties.
23786249|The objective of this study was to examine the effects of fertilization, plant density and genotypes on biomass production of maize under irrigated conditions on the basis of the results of the multifactorial long-term experiment. The interval of plant number tested was 30-90 103 plant ha1, the maize hybrids examined were Occitn SC and Dekalb 471 SC in non-fertilized (N0 kg ha1) and fertilized (N120 kg ha1) treatments. Difference (P<0.05) between plant numbers (50, 70 and 90 103 plant ha1) could be proved according to the results of variance analysis. Evaluating the experimental results, the N fertilization indicated a significant increase in biomass production compared to the values of control plots. In comparison with the N0 fertilization level the doses of 120 kg ha1 increased the quantity of biomass with 40-60%. On the basis of the values of significant difference (P<0.05) the dry matter production of the two hybrids were significantly different at P<0.05 and the fertilization x hybrid interaction was significant as well. Testing the relationships stated that the change in biomass might be characterized in the function of plant number by asymptotic and quadratic functions. The difference between the biomass production in various plant densities was significant in all cases.
23781326|A quantitative assessment of genetic diversity for a set of eleven characters related to productivity and survival was undertaken in ten diverse genotypes of wheat under six environments including stress and non-stress environments utilizing multi-variate analysis. Genetic diversity and geographical diversity did not appear to be related. The investigations brought out the fact that environmental conditions exert considerable impact on the clustering pattern in different environments. Causes of variation in clustering pattern in different environments like differential gene expression in different environments and presence of genotype-environment interactions have been discussed. Need for making such studies in optimal environmental conditions which facilitates the fullest expression of the genotypes in respect of various characters or to conduct such studies under multiple environmental conditions has been emphasised. It was also observed that characters like height, 100-grain weight, weight per ear and grain yield which contributd maximum toward total divergence appeared to be more potent factors for differentiation among genotypes. Based on inter-cluster distances, the crosses between varieties like UP 301 and Agra Local which fall in the most divergent groups were suggested.
23789298|High and stable yield is very desirable in maize (Zea mays L.) genotypes. Stable yield of a genotype means that its rank relative to other genotypes remains unchanged in a given set of environments. Grain yield of 10 maize genotypes was tested in a randomised block design with four replications across 15 environments (five locations in three years) in Ethiopia. The combined analysis of variance for environment (E), genotypes (G) and GE interaction was highly significant, suggesting differential responses of the genotypes and the need for stability analysis. The parametric stability measure of Wricke's ecovalence (Wi) and the regression coefficient (bi) showed that BH-660 was the most stable genotype. Nassar and Huehn's non-parametric measures S(1) and S(2), were significantly and positively correlated with Eberhart and Russell's Sdi2 and Wi. The stability measures are useful in characterising cultivars by showing their relative performance in various environments. Results revealed that high-yielding cultivars can also be stable cultivars. The stability statistics generally identified BH-660, L2 and Gibe-1 as the most stable genotypes, whereas Kulani and BH-140 were the least stable.
23789903|Effective microorganisms (EM), a culrure of coexisting beneficial microorganisms predominantly consisting of species of photosynthetic and lactic acid bacteria, yeast and actinomycetes, has been developed by Japanese Scientists. In the present study effect of soil sterilization on performance of a commercial EM biofertilizer (EM Bioab), in improving crop growth and yield in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) was studied in two types of organic amendments viz. farmyard manure (FYM) and Trifolium alexandrinum L. green manure (GM). Plant vegetative and reproductive growth and grain yield was better in heat-sterilized than in nonsterilized soil. EM application resulted an insignificant increase in root and shoot dry biomass and grain yield in heat sterilized FYM amended soil while in heat sterilized GM amendment it caused a significant reduction in grain yield. In nonsterilized soils EM application suppressed root and shoot growth at vegetative stage and had insignificant effect at maturity. Effect was more pronounced in FYM than in GM amendment. In nonsterilized FYM amended soil grain yield was also declined by 41% due to EM application.
90003043|Coenological relevs were prepared by authors on different pastures (grazed by horse, cattle or sheep) of the Great Hungarian Plain in 1997 and 2005. Two groups of coenological relevs were prepared in 1997 and 2005 on sandy, alkali areas near Hdmezvsrhely town. Based on data gained during the two periods, vegetation changes caused by animal husbandry can be compared. During coenological studies, monitoring of spatial changes has also played an important role, this is why data were gained from two groups of releves. Besides observing the effects of grazing on vegetation, we have also concentrated on how to strain of effects of trampling. Intensity of grazing has changed on the areas observed in 1997, as slightly and intensively grazed or overgrazed areas were separated.
90003273|Pathogenicity of eight
90002681|Nematode communities were used as bioindicators of changes in agroecosystems caused by anthropogenic factors. The aim of this study was to examine the impact of chemical disturbances on nematode communities in the soil in winter wheat fields. The sampling was done three times, before disturbances, after fertilization and third time was after insecticides applications. Number of genera significantly decreased after disturbances caused by chemical application, while total number of nematodes did not change significantly in numbers. Maturity index (MI) showed significant differences between first and last sampling, as well as PPI/MI. Plant parasitic index (PPI) did not differ significantly between sampling periods.
23782991|Meiosis was studied in the ABDR F1 polyhaploi hybrids d Triticum aestivum L. var. Saratovskaya 29 x Secale cereale L. var. Onohoiskaya. It was found that the hybrids have different meiotic patterns and pollen fertility. The results obtained allowed us to explain the nonreduction of chromosome number in the viable gametes of polyhaploids ABDR as follows: 1) viable gametes are predominatly formed in those ABDR plants in which the number of homoeologous bivalents is, in the majority, small, the univalents divide equationally, and the chromosome do not segregate at anaphase II; 2) the formation of viable gametes with different chromosome combinations of the four genomes of the ABDR F1 hybrids is unlikely, when homoeologous pairing is low, division of univalents at anaphase I equational, and poleward passage at anaphase II random.
23782844|A new series of near-isogenic lines has been obtained on the basis of the spring bread wheat cultivar Novosibirskaya 67. Individual sets of near-isogenic lines within this series may be used for studying various problems in applied physiology, biochemistry, wheat genetics.
23783013|Thirteen white grain cytoplasmic male-sterile (A) lines of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) without a pigmented testa were crossed to two white grain testers, IS 475 (B1B1b2b2SS) and BT623 (b1b1B2B2SS), to determine genetic constitution of the A-lines with respect to the two'B' loci which control presence and absence of pigmented testa in sorghum grain. Based on the grain color of F1 plants, 12 of the lines were found to be of b1b1B2B2constitution but one line was b1b1b2b2.The F1 plants of this line in crosses with both the testers produced white grains without a testa.The utility of this line in breeding is discussed.
23789632|The field experiment with three rates of phosphorus (P) fertilization for maize (OsSK444 and OsSK552 hybrids) up to 2000 kg P2O5/ha were conducted in the spring 2002. For the next growing seasons (2003 and 2004) only ordinary fertilization was applied. In general, maize yields were independent on applied fertilization. Only application of the highest P rate had residual influences on maize yields for the 2003 growing season. Probably very favorable weather conditions for 2002 and 2004 could be resposible factor for low influences of fertilization on maize yields. Also, maize hybrid OsSK552 yielded more than OsSK444. The ear-leaf of maize at beginning of silking (the 2002 growing season only) was taken for chemical analysis. Leaf P, Mg, Mn and Fe concentrations increased by application of the highest rate of P. At the same time, K, Ca, Zn, Cu and Fe concentrations significantly decreased. Especially influences of P fertilization were found for Zn status in maize leaves (70 and 40 ppm Zn, for the control and 2000 kg P2O5/ha, respectively). OsSK552 hybrid characterized by the higher K, Ca, Mg, Cu and Fe, as well as the lower Zn concentrations in comparison with the OsSK444 hybrid.
23782785|Relationships between protein fractions of semolina and quality of macaroni were studied in six durum wheats. Total and insoluble protein contents of semolina were found to be associated positively with strength, whereas soluble protein content correlated positively with both cooking time and swelling properties of macaroni. Among the studied varieties, semolina of GK Minaret had the highest total and soluble protein content and provided the best material for producing a macaroni with excellent cooking quality. These statements should be taken into consideration when selecting durum wheats for macaroni strength and cooking quality.
23787560|The aim of this work was to distinguish between chromosomes of A-genome of 6x-triticale and Am--genome of T. monococcum and to evaluate the efficiency of distinguishing secondary tetraploid triticale lines varying in A/Am chromosome substitutions. These secondary tetraploid lines were developed by crossing of this hexaploid triticales with the synthetic allotetraploid T. monococcum/S. cereale (AmAmRR) as a male parent. The comparative C-banding showed that chromosomes of T. monococcum are less easily stained than are chromosomes of hexaploid triticale. Precise differential staining of tetraploid triticale lines with complete A genome distinguished chromosomes originating from Am-genome of primary AmAmRR allotetraploid and those substituted from A-genome of 6x-triticale. Seventeen different chromosome constitutions of tetraploid triticale with complete A-genome were identified. The assessed substitutions showed close linkage with several phenotypic traits. Chromosomes 2A, 4A, 5A and 6A participated in substitutions with significantly higher frequency than other chromosomes of A-genome.
23783780|Accumulation patterns of dry matter and nitrogen in the developing seeds of nine mutant lines produced by the IAEA and their mother line Mex22A T.aestivum (L.) were studied. The experiments were grown for 2 years under rainfed conditions. Significant differences were found among the lines in all studied characters except for final seed weight. High rates of accumulation of dry matter and nitrogen were associated with a short period of accumulation. However, the two lines with the highest N rate accumulation were also very late in flowering and therefore had the lowest yield per plant, presumably due to higher sterility resulting from higher temperatures at anthesis. All other mutant lines had a higher seed nitrogen percentage than the mother line without any reduction in seed weight. This was primarly due to higher rates of N accumulation. Six of the mutant lines had comparable yield/ plant and were higher than the mother line in N yield/ plant. It was concluded that early flowering genotypes with higher N rates of accumulation should be sought to avoid the high sterility that occurs with high temperatures at anthesis.
23783056|Withania, Abutilon, Antigonon, Prosopis and wheat straw were evaluated for their effects on germination and seedlings growth of two wheat cultivars (Sarsabz and LU-26-S). There was no inhibitory effects on germination. Wheat straw stimulated root and shoot growth. Of the rest, Prosopis residue inhibited both shoot and root of both the cultivars. Others had no significant effect on growth.
90003489|Nowadays, hyperspectral remote sensing is increasingly widely used, which makes possible several precision applications. In particular, actual status as well as change in status of objects on ground surface can be evaluated, providing useful information for e.g. agriculture, and environmental management, and thematic information can also be obtained, such as landuse pattern for a given area. In our study, effect of adverse soil processes on plants at an arable land was investigated by processing airborne remotely sensed data. Hyperspectral images were taken by using an AISA Dual hyperspectral sensor detecting between 400 and 1.000 nm in parallel with field measurement of certain biomass parameters, including plant height, cover, leaf area index, etc. and sampling at points determined by GPS, for laboratory analysis of chlorophyll a content. After radiometric and geometric corrections, channel selecting methods were applied to improve the information content. In addition to the traditionally used vegetation indices, channels potentially useful to estimate biomass and chlorophyll were selected. After evaluating point data, spatial distribution of chlorophyll a content was also examined, and as a result, a vegetation stress map was generated. In addition, based on calculations from field measurement data for coverage, and selection and processing of certain spectra, a coverage map was also generated for the studied area.
23790339|Literature confirms that using polyethylene glycol (PEG) as an osmotic agent to imitate water shortage was not so easy in practice, due to PEG toxicity effects and frequent contaminations. Two new approaches were developed to alleviate those problems, one using a raft covered with a membrane to prevent PEG entry in roots, and one using solidified PEG media. The raft trials were done on corn, hexaploid and tetraploid wheat, rye, triticale, oats, barley, Agrotricum; those in solid media, with corn, hexaploid and tetraploid wheat, barley, sorghum and pearl millet. Different species respond differently to PEG-induced osmotic stress. In our trials, the most sensitive cereal was corn, and this finding correlates with the lower osmotic pressure of the sap (a constitutive trait in corn seedlings). Corn responded to osmotic stress by a very poor rate of elongation of the coleoptile, especially when the highest stress (32% PEG) was used. This behavior was also observed in the field in dry years, for example in the Sahel area. Compared to this sensitive cereal species, all other cereals tested were more resistant. Hexaploid and tetraploid wheat, triticale, and Agrotricum kept capacity to elongate roots when submitted to a high osmotic stress, but the higher stress reduced root length considerably. Barley kept rooting ability like other cereals, but was able to develop more aerial biomass, seminal roots, and ramifications. Barley root hair was also longer and covered a higher proportion of the root. Those adaptive features likely explain part of the good adaptation of barley to dry Mediterranean areas. Preliminary results on solid media also showed relationships between drought resistance and the osmoresistance response, at least when comparing species. Roots of species adapted to hot climate, like pearl millet and sorghum, had few seminal roots but displayed a strong gravitropism under osmotic stress. The ease of use of solidified PEG media shows promise for future larger scale trials. Applications of solidified PEG media for research beyond cereal crops is envisioned.
23779254|The resistance of Arthur winter wheat seedlings to stem rust caused by race 11 and by a mixture of the race populations most prevalent in Hungary /races 11, 331 and 218/ was studied using monosomic analysis. The segregation ratios obtained in the F2 generation of crosses between Chinese Spring monosomic series and Arthur show that a dominant gene located on chromosome 3B is responsible for resistance to race 11. After infection with a mixture of stem rust races resistance genes were identified in chromosomes 1A, 3B and 3D. The large number of individuals of intermediate resistance type with reactions different from those of the parents, and the varying segregation ratios of those chromosomes which do not carry major resistance genes, lead to the assumption that these chromosomes have a modifying effect and that their interactions play a significant part in the development of stem rust resistance.
90003444|Salinization and sodification are among the degradation processes that European Commission defined as the main threats to vital soil functions. According to the draft Framework Directive for Soil Protection the member states are expected to take action to assess and control the risks for further degradation processes. Several projects and publications have provided suggestions for common criteria for definition and delineation of risk areas of the main degradation processes. This paper is comparing the suggested common criteria of different sources, and gives and example for technical performance of the spatial delineation of risk areas of salinization and sodification. The indicators of a European Research Framework Program (ENVASSO) and the diagnostic categories related to the amount and depth of salt accumulations and hydrology related qualifiers of the World Reference Base for Soil Resources (WRB) were applied successfully to delineate areas with potential or further degradation as result of irrigation. The available spatial and laboratory data were sufficient for the test area for the delineation; however the threshold values of different sources caused different spatial distribution of risk areas. The testing of the values with fertility and environmental parameters is suggested to conclude the final common threshold values.
23786832|By the method of scanning electron microscopy we searched the localisation and development of F. moniliforme and F. proliferatum mycelium in maize kernels. Kernels had the different symptoms. The mycelium of F. proliferatum has been developed between aleuron layer and pericarp of ear rot, seldom in endosperm. F. moniliforme has been localised near embryo and in endosperm too, namely in pink lilac ear rot.
23792274|Use of plant hormones as seed priming agents is known to improve the field performance especially under stressful conditions like salinity. A pot experiment was conducted to study the effects of seed priming of two wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars Auqab-2000 (salt tolerant) and MH-97 (salt sensitive) under saline (15 dS m 1 ) and non-saline (2.75 dS m 1 ) conditions. For priming seeds were soaked in aerated water (hydropriming), and solutions of kinetin (Kin; 25 mg L 1 ), or salicylic acid (SA; 50 mg L 1 ) for 12 h. All the priming treatments significantly reduced the adverse effects of salinity in terms of improving final emergence, growth and grain yield of both cultivars. Seed priming with SA and Kin improved salt tolerance in both wheat cultivars by the activation of antioxidants, i.e. superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) to counterbalance the oxidative damage. Albeit, Na + and Cl  contents increased due to salinity, all priming strategies lowered the accumulation of Na + and enhanced the accumulation of K + in leaves of both cultivars. The results suggest that priming with SA followed by kinetin successfully improved fitness of wheat plants exposed to salt stress.
23785293|Studying new sources of virus resistance, 39 inbred maize lines were inoculated in greenhouse with maize dwarf mosaic potyvirus strain A (MDMV-A) and sugarcane mosaic potyvirus strain MB and A (SCMV-MB and SCMV-A). After inoculation with MDMV-A, seven (A90, A656, A622, CO125, H99, H111 and 156), in the case of SCMV-MB five (A90, A662, CO125, H99 and H111), and in the case of SCMV-A strain only three (A656, CO125 and H99) inbred lines remained symptomless. One susceptible (CO255) and seven resistant lines (A656, A662, CG1, H111, H114, Oh514 and Pa405) were analysed serologically by ELISA test after inoculation. The virus strains used for inoculation were detectable from the inoculated leaves both from susceptible and from resistant lines, in spite of the fact that the mosaic symptoms did not appear on these lower leaves. The upper, non-inoculated symptomless leaves did not contain detectable amount of virus. Only the upper leaves, developed after inoculation, showing mosaic symptoms gave positive serological reactions and the virus could be recovered from these leaves by back inoculation. These results indicate that none of the used inbred lines were extremely resistant (immune) to the infections. The pathogen was able to replicate both in the susceptible and in the resistant genotypes; however, its translocation to the upper leaves was inhibited in resistant hosts. These valuable resistant inbreds can be recognised on the basis of the lack of visible symptoms.
90003233|A survey for fumonisins(fumonisin B1, B2 and B3) was conducted on 131 corn and processed corn products commercialized in Korea. The fumonisins were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography(HPLC) with fluorescence detector using immunoaffinity column clean up. The Fumonisins were detected in 91 samples(69.4% of incidence) and they were 100% incidence in corn flour, corn cereal, and roasted corn. The contamination level was 0.01 mg/kg ~ 13.0 mg/kg and the whole kernel corn showed the highest contamination level(0~13.0 mg/kg, average 1.56 mg/kg). Based on the Korea food consumption data, estimated daily intake(EDI) of fumonisin was 0.03 ~ 0.08 ug/kg b.w./day.
23785243|Using an intron-GUS gene as a marker, various factors influencing the T-DNA transfer from Agrobacterium into wheat and barley cells were investigated. Among the 3 strains used, a supervirulent strain, EHA101(pIG121Hm), was found to be the most efficient. Calli derived from immature embryos of several cultivars (cvs) of wheat (Triticum aestivum L., cvs. Florida, Jinan 177 and Yuanfeng 6) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L., cv. Igri) were co-cultivated with Agrobacterium, and their susceptibilities to agrobacteria infection differed greatly. Depending on their type and age, calli cultured on solid medium showed a high degree of variation in their competency for T-DNA transfer. However, efficient and highly reproducible GUS expression was observed in calli of wheat cv. Florida cultured in liquid medium. Acetosyringone (AS) was found to be vital for this process. The frequency of T-DNA transfer as measured by GUS expression was greatly increased by longer and repeated co-cultivation.
23780382|The meiotic index (percentage of normal quarters) of 17 wheat cultivars which have been used in Brazilian breeding programs was determined. Plants with a meiotic index above 90 (91 Z or more normal quartets) were considered meiotically stable for practical purposes. Observations were made on material sampled over a period of several days at four localities. From zero to 28 micronuclei were found per quartet. In two cultivars, all plants had a meiotic index greater than 90, 14 cultivars had plants with indices either above or below 90, and in one cultivar all plants had indices below 90. The percentage of plants of all varieties with a meiotic index of less than 90 was 32 Z, indicating that meiotic abnormalities have not been eliminated by the usual breeding procedures. At one location, correlation coefficients between meiotic index and temperature, humidity, rainfall and isolation were low, although significant. The behaviour of unstable and stable cultivars was independent of day and place of fixation. These data suggest that the genotype played a major role on meiotic stability.
23787654|The effect of Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) infection was studied on the ultrastructure of etioplasts and the greening process of barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Pannnia) plants infected by seed transmission. The leaves of 7-11-day old etiolated seedlings were examined with transmission electron microscopy and absorption spectroscopy. The etioplasts of infected seedlings contained smaller prolamellar bodies with less regular membrane structure while prothylakoid content was higher than in the control. Characteristic effect was observed in the process of the Shibata-shift: 40 min delay was observed in the infected leaves. The results of this work proved that BSMV infection significantly delays or inhibits the plastid development and the formation of photosynthetic apparatus.
23792336|The occurrence of damaged grains was studied in 12 barley genotypes in a three-year period. The occurrence of grains with physiological split of lemma and endosperm was generally low. Split of palea and endosperm was mostly affected by the genotype (10%) and it was recorded most frequently in the genotype Heris. Incomplete overlapping of husks was also markedly affected by the genotype (10%) and it occurred most frequently in the genotype Scarlett. Sprouted grains and grains of green color occurred minimally. Black points were affected by year (21%) and genotype (15%). This damage was most frequently reported for the genotypes Camera and Jersey. Surprisingly, the occurrence of grains with apparently moldy husks was markedly affected by the genotype (25%), less substantially by the location (10%) and minimally by year (3%).
90002718|During 2006 and 2007 we studied influence of growing nitrogen quantities in fertilization of sugar beet on root yield and quality. The experiment was set up in 5 different variants of fertilization: G
90002320|The water content of the grain, the cob and the internode below the ear, and the thousand-kernel mass of early (Mv 251, Ipoly) and late (Tisza, Mv 500) maize varieties were recorded three times a day between 7 and 17 November 2006.
23783079|Durum wheat cvs. "Trinakria" (tall, high-protein) and "Valgerardo" (semi-dwarf, low-protein), as well as twenty semi-dwarf lines derived from "Trinakria  Valgerardo" were evaluated for grain protein percentage, SDS-sedimentation volume and various spaghetti cooking quality characteristics. Grain protein percentage means of lines and of parental cultivars coincided almost exactly. For all other characters, the average values recorded on semi-dwarf lines were better than those of the lower quality parent, "Valgerardo", but worse than the expected parental means. Further analysis' indicated that the quality improvement exhibited by semi-dwarf lines was due solely to their higher mean grain protein content, inherited from cv. "Trinakria". "Trinakria" carries other genes which affect spaghetti cooking quality, but these were either not transmitted or not expressed in the semi-dwarf lines examined.
90003005|This research shows the antioxidative response in radish grown on soils with an elevated Cu and Pb content. Plants grown on soils with higher heavy metal content showed increased activities of guaiacol peroxidase, catalase and lipid peroxidation rate. Increased content of total polyphenols, proteins and proline was observed in the same plants. In general, Cu accumulation was more pronounced in leaves and Pb in hypocotyl. It can be concluded that growing radish on soils enriched with these heavy metals leads to oxidative stress in plants and the risk of Pb accumulation in plant edible part (hypocotyl) can not be neglected.
23780417|Some 20 years of experience regarding the testing of cereal cultivars and breeding material for resistance to pre-harvest sprouting in the ears is summarized. The following items are discussed: 1. Cultivar characters affecting resistance to pre-harvest sprouting. 2. Methods for determining resistance to pre-harvest sprouting. 3. Measurement of seed dormancy. 4. Factors affecting accuracy of the dormancy test. 5. Dormancy test for screening breeding populations for resistance to pre-harvest sprouting.
23787281|Nine Fusarium graminearum isolates were investigated for their pathogenicity on wheat ears and zearalenone production. The investigated isolates originated from different geographical regions and included representatives of Group 1 and Group 2 of F. gramineraum species. Among these isolates significant differences in pathogenicity were found. Groups 1 and 2 included isolates with higher and lower pathogenicity. 44,4% of the isolates produced zearalenone in artifically infected wheat grains at concentrations ranging from 203 to 431 g/kg. Isolates of both groups are capable of zearalenone synthesis.
23781325|Both Mahalanobis's generalized distance (D2) and canonical analysis were used to estimate the genetic diversity among 56 genotypes of barley. The genotypes included 43 doubled haploid lines derived from 6 different crosses, 9 parental and 4 other commercial cultivars. Heading date, maturity date, plant height, 1000-kernel weight, lodging resistance and grain yield were recorded in each of 3 replications. It was found that doubled haploid lines from the same cross were grouped into several clusters while other genotypes having different parentages were classified into one cluster. Thus, it was concluded that genetic diversity in homozygous lines of barley could not be estimated by the discriminant analyses based on these six traits. Further studies are needed to determine if a better set of discriminating traits can be found.
90002774|During the vegetation season is the water storage in the soil aeration zone influenced by meteorological phenomena and vegetation cover. If the soil profile is in contact with the ground water table, this also affects the water storage. The water amount stored in the soil aeration zone is determined by a combination of these components. The influence can be either monitored directly or simulated by a mathematical model for soil moisture regimes. Water requirements of cultivated agricultural crops differ during the vegetation season. In the present study the results obtained by direct monitoring of the effect of agricultural crops on the water storage dynamics under the conditions of the East Slovakian Lowland (ESL) are presented, particularly:
23790072|This article focuses on the occurrence of Fusarium species on barley kernels in Slovakia. The study was conducted over two consecutive crop years (20042005) on three cultivars (potential malting varieties) at five locations in Slovakia. Fusarium spp. were detected in all locations and years ranging from 0.1 to 27% seed infestation. The highest infestation of kernels was recorded in 2005 for all localities and all cultivars. The following species were detected: Fusarium acuminatum, F. arthrosporioides, F. avenaceum, F. culmorum, F. chlamydosporum, F. equiseti, F. graminearum, F. langsethiae, F. nivale (syn. Microdochium nivale), F. oxysporum, F. poae, F. sambucinum, F. semitectum, F. solani, F. sporotrichioides, and F. tricinctum. The most common was F. poae in all localities and cultivars, with an isolation frequency ranging from 0.33 to 11.67%. This is the first report of F. langsethiae occurrence in Slovakia with an isolation frequency ranging from 0.33 to 6.67%. In 2005 a wider spectrum of Fusarium species, a higher level of kernel infestation, and a lower germinative activity was recorded than in 2004. The germinative activity of kernels was impaired the most in 2005 irrespective of cultivar. The decreasing of germinative activity in 2005 corresponded with higher kernel infestation with Fusarium fungi.
90003008|The aim in flue-cured tobacco production is to produce high quality leaf competitive on world market in price and quality. Rationalization of fertilization would decrease production costs, and diminish negative over-fertilization effect on environment. Cultivars of Croatian flue cured tobacco were planted at two fertilization rates 60 kg N, 35 kg P
90002947|Land use change is the result of a complex web of interactions between bio-physical and socioeconomic forces over space and time among plant-soil-environment. Coping with this complexity for practical purposes, at least  such as policy making and land management for sustainable land use  is impossible without some simplification of the complex relationships to manageable and understandable dimensions. Hence, the need for some model, in general, and for some symbolic model, in particular, which will express operationally the relationships of interest. The presented paper analyze different modeling approaches to define land use changes and plant-soil interrelations.
90002743|Various physical and mechanical properties of sunflower (
23784283|Six waxy barley lines derived from 2 cultivars by a backcrossing breeding program at Montana State University were compared with the normal parents to investigate the effect of the waxy gene on total, soluble and insoluble -glucan, dietary fiber content, and viscosity. Total and insoluble -glucan content were consistently higher in the waxy (6.60 and 2.62%) than in the normal (4.93 and 1.59%), respectively. The overall means of soluble -glucan and dietary fiber were significantly higher (p<.01) in waxy barley isolines. Viscosity was higher in all waxy barley genotypes than in non-waxy types. The correlation coefficient was .88 (P<.01) for total -glucan content vs. viscosity of alkaline extracts over all genotypes. These data imply that waxy barley has a great potential for human food because of the distinct health advantages of soluble dietary fiber.
90003378|Greenhouse pot experiment was set up to determine the effect of an abiotic stress as different N and S doses on NO
23783055|The stomatal frequency and distribution in 3 parts of leaf of various rainfed/drought tolerant and irrigated wheat genotypes were studied under moisture stress (rainfed) and irrigated conditions. The varieties were grouped as rainfed/irrigated on the basis of their tolerance to various drought parameters (Nayeem and Nerkar, 1986). Six positions of each leaf were sampled, the tip, the centre and the base of both the adaxial and abaxial surfaces. The results revealed that stomatal density was higher at the leaf tip than the leaf base on both the leaf surfaces of all the genotypes grown under both the conditions of moisture stress in wheat crop. It is also observed that genotypes grouped as rainfed registered higher stomatal frequencies as compared to the group of genotype responsive to irrigation, under stress/ rainfed conditions. Among the species, T. durum varieties had more stomatal frequencies as compared to T. aestivum. The relationship of adaxial and abaxial surfaces for stomatal frequencies, exhibited strong positive correlation coefficient, while there was no correlation coefficient, between frequencies of stomatae and the the flag leaf area.
23787573|The large biomass production and the low necessary input fertilizer make Miscanthus an interesting, potential non-food crops with broad applications, e.g. for fuel and energy, for thatching, fibre production, for the paper and car industries, as well as for ethanol production. Axillary buds of Miscanthus x giganteus were placed on a shoot inducing nutrient solution (modified Murashige and Skoog, 1962) basic medium supplemented with 0,3 mg 11 6-Benzylaminopurin). After 40 days of culturing the axillary buds produced three times more shoots than could normally be harvested. The nutrient content (N, P, K, Ca, Mg) was measured several times during culturing. The results showed that after 35 days, nitrogen and phosphorous was nearly completely taken up. From that time, shoot growth was not observed. After the shoot propagation the plants were transferred into a nutrient solution for root formation basic medium (modified Murashige and Skoog, 1962) supplemented with 0,5 mg 11 IBA (Indol-3-Butyric Acid), and could be potted into soil, after about 14 days.
23778572|Four exotic and four indigenous diverse strains of barley were used to prepare a complete diallel set. Fiftysix F1 hybrids and their parents were sown in a randomized block design with four replications. Data were transformed to uncorrelated mean values. Both, original and transformed data were analysed using Griffing's approach (1956). Mean squares due to gca, sca, reciprocal and error were affected by transformation (rs being -0.17 -0.10, 0.24 and 0.48 respectively). Though, the ratio of mean square due to sca and gca provided identical results (rs= 0.86), the ratio of D/A showed entirely different results (rs= 0.07). Transformation did not affect the estimates of gca and sca best effects. Five specific cross combinations were selected under each character for a better comparison. The number of common crosses varied with the characters. The most complex character, grain yield, was highly affected by transformation as only two crosses were common.
23779109|The effect of growth regulator benzyladenine (BA) on leaf senescence and yield of maize were investigated in the greenhouse. Benzyladenine had no significant effect on leaf area but substantially increased leaf area duration. Increases in starch and sugar content of treated leaves were recorded. Grain yields were very low and showed no significant differences.
23786798|Nitrogen is the dominant fertilizer element required for cereals in Morocco. While fertilization is less common in the semi-arid (250-450 mm) cereal belt than at higher rainfall zones, the benefits in terms of yield increases and economics are potentially important. However, research has been focused mainly on bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L), notwithstanding the importance of durum wheat (T. Turgidum var durum L). This on-farm trial in a shallow soil (Petrocalcic Palexeroll) in the dryland Chaouia area of south-central Morocco evaluated the impact of N (0, 30, 60, 90, 120 kg N/ha) in five durum cultivars (Kyperounda or 2777, Marzak, Massa, Cocorit, Karim). Data were influenced by both N and cultivar, with no interaction between them. Nitrogen significantly increased biomass and grain yields up to 90 kg/ha; it had little effect on either grain N concentration, except at the highest level (120 kg/ha), or kernel weight, but tended to decrease the percentage of "yellow berry". Yields were significantly higher for Kyperounda, Marzak, and Karim than either Cocorit or Massa. Grain N and kernel weight were little influenced by cultivar, but the incidence of "yellow berry" varied with the cultivar. While recognizing cultivar differences, the study highlights the role of N for yield and quality components of durum wheat.
23786111|The composition of gliadin and high-molecular-weight (HMW) glutenin subunits in 26 advanced breeding lines and 12 cultivars of common spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) was determined using A- and SDS-PAGE. The breeding lines were obtained from Boreal Plant Breeding to speed up the breeding work in Estonia and to establish the co-operative work of Estonia and Finland. The most commonly represented alleles were Gli-A1a, Gli-B1b,o, Gli-D1a and Glu-A1b(2*), Glu-B1b(7+8). Alleles Glu-D1a(2+12) and Glu-D1d(5+10) were represented equally. Two advanced breeding lines contained HMW glutenin subunit bands 14+15. Three breeds were selected as new cultivars, 12 were preserved for further breeding as donors for some valuable quality, and 11 were eliminated.
90003256|One of the most urgent tasks faced by researchers investigating toxigenic fungi is to describe the kinetics of fungal metabolite formation after infestation with these fungi. For this purpose the formation of
23787584|The wet gluten content, gluten spreading, baking value, technological water-absorbing ability and falling number of 4 wheat varieties were studied in a year with an average rainfall (2001) and two dry years (2002 and 2003). The wheat varieties were treated with different doses of NPK fertilizers and fungicides (Artea 330EC: 80 g/l cyproconazole + 250 g/l propiconazole, and Kolfugo 25WF: 250 g/l carbendazime). The highest fertilizer doses (120 kg/ha N + 60 kg/ha P + 60 kg/ha K, or 160 kg/ha N + 80 kg/ha P + 80 kg/ha K) significantly increased the wet glutan content of the 4 tested wheat varieties in all three years. The gluten spreading, the baking value, the water-absorbing ability and the falling number were not enhanced significantly by the fertilization. Both a higher dose of fertilizers and the use of fungicides tended to increase only the extent of gluten spreading and the baking value. A higher fertilizer dose and a dryer year did not affect the technological water-absorbing ability. The falling number tended to rise as the fertilization was increased. The effect of fungicidal treatment was not unambiguous: it sometimes decreased the falling number to under the upper standard limit (400 sec), i.e. it improved the quality. In the dry years, a significantly larger quantity of gluten, a greater extent of gluten spreading, a higher falling number and a better baking value were observed.
90002949|The present study is dedicated to the evaluation of production sites in relation with grain quality manifestation. The results obtained suggest, that milling and baking quality of wheat grain is highly influenced by the production site, especially by the soil-climatic conditions of that. In particular, soil type of the given region proved to be a primary indicator for grain quality.
90003086|In this paper we discuss about possibilities of rapeseed production as a base for biodiesel production and its economic effects in rural economy in Istria. Therefore authors examined possibilities for rapeseed production and its possible transverse to oil-biodiesel. Effects of such a production chain could affect rural economy in positive ways. Authors question following effects: what are the natural resources for rapeseed production; is there sufficient rapeseed production as base for oil; how the production chain can affect rural economy. Further authors argue the hypothesis that biodiesel reproduction has possibilities for improvements in agricultural land use, employment and rural economy development.
23790020|In the present study the physiological status of two wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars subjected to polyethylene glycol-induced dehydration is evaluated. Wheat seedlings were exposed to either 8-d-long mild (15% PEG) or 24-h-long severe (30% PEG) osmotic stress by immersing their roots in PEG-supplemented Knop nutrient solution. Relative water content in the leaves and the levels of free proline, malondialdehyde, and hydrogen peroxide were chosen as indicative parameters corresponding to the degree of stress of the treated plants. Electrolyte leakage from leaf tissues of control and stressed plants was compared in terms of the common parameter Injury index used for characterizing cell membrane stability. In addition, a model test system was established for preliminary stress evaluation based on the kinetics of ion leakage. Short-term exposure to higher concentration of PEG was considered to be more harmful than prolonged mild stress as judged by RWC, proline and hydrogen peroxide accumulation, and injury index. The two cultivars demonstrated more obvious dissimilarities under conditions of prolonged mild stress than under severe stress.
23786990|The variations in the carbohydrate and essential amino acid contents in grains from durum and common wheat, barley, rye and triticale during development were analyzed. The quantities of simple sugars and fructans reached their highest levels approximately ten days after anthesis, remained high for few days and then they decreased again. Among amino acids, the most significant variations were recorded for leucine and cysteine, which increased, and for histidine and lysine, which decreased. From the nutritional point of view meals from immature grains have a high content of lysine, fructans and simple sugars. They could thus be particularly significant for the production of functional foods.
23784231|Culture of directly isolated microspores of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) was studied in six defined liquid culture media differing in their nutrient composition. Microspores were isolated from spring wheat genotypes 'Mahti' and 'Hja 24201' using microblender and cultured with or without wheat ovaries. Ovary co-cultivation was found to be necessary for the development of embryo-like structures from directly isolated microspores. With ovary co-cultivation, microspore-derived embryo-like structures developed in all the different induction media. The induction media showed some variation in inducing microspore embryogenesis. As a total, 1113 embryo-like structures were plated on the regeneration medium and 95 green and 115 albino plants were obtained. Seventy-five of the green plants were either fertile or partially fertile and 20 were sterile. In contrast, in cultures without ovaries only some initial cell divisions were observed, but the induced multicellular structures did not develop beyond two weeks.
23781426|Triploid hybrids between H. vulgare cv. York (2x) and H. bulbosum (4X) were produced. Cells of spike primordia and root meristems of these triploid plants were examined and showed evidence of chromosome elimination. In the spike primordia of three hybrids, cells with micronuclei were observed at the frequency of 5.5%, 10.2% and 4.5% on average, respectively. Frequencies of cells with non-congressed chromosomes at metaphase and lagging chromosomes at anaphase were 7.2% and 7.7%. About 20% of cells had fewer chromosomes than the 21 expected in triploid hybrids. In root tip meristems, cells with micronuclei and non-congressed chromosomes at metaphase were not observed while 1.4% of cells at anaphase had abnormal nuclear divisions. Also 1.5% of the cells had fewer than 21 chromosomes. Chromosome elimination occurred at a higher rate in spike primordia than in root meristems, and rate appears to be a tissue-dependent phenomenon. The mechanism of chromosome elimination is discussed.
23782828|An electrophoretic survey was carried out in a population of Hordeum chilense Brong, var. muticum (Prel.) Hauman using eight isoenzyme systems. The population investigated was previously used to obtain the allopolyploid of H. chilense  Triticum trigidum from which T. turgidum / H. chilense addition lines have been obtained. The results indicated that the population is rather monomorphic for PGI, PGM, AAT, LAP and MDH isozymes, and polymorphic for the ACPH, EST and CPX systems.
23786908|Fusaric acid, the most important phytotoxic metabolite of Fusarium oxysporum, was detected by high performance liquid chromatographic analysis in phytotoxic culture filtrates of only two out of nine isolates studied. Phenylacetic acid and methyl p-hydroxyphenylacetate were isolated from culture filtrates not containing fusaric acid and identified on the basis of 1H and 13C NMR spectra as the major secondary metabolites. Phenylacetic acid, and to a lower extent methyl p-hydroxyphenylacetate, were phytotoxic to pea, rapeseed, lettuce, garden cress and barley. The activities of these compounds were lower than that of fusaric acid. However, noticeable effects were consistently observed when phenylacetic acid was applied at concentration as low as 0.1 mM.
23787575|Investigations have been carried out on the resistance toward toxic amounts of Cu+2 in the medium of three tritordeum forms - the hexaploids: HT9 and HT31 and the octoploid HT73, containing genes of the wild perennial barley Hordeum chilense. The length and weight of the roots as well as of the above-ground part of 10-day old plants, grown on solutions with CuSO4.5H2O at concentrations of 106 M and 105 M and those grown on water (control) were measured. Toxic Cu2+ concentrations in the medium resulted in an increase of the variation coefficient for the studied parameters which was more distinctly expressed in the hexaploid tritordeums. The octoploid tritordeum HT73 demonstrated greater tolerance to the heavy metal based on the changes in the weight and length of the above-ground parts of the plants. No significant changes in the pigment content and in the chlorophyll fluorescence parameters were established indicating that the photosynthetic apparatus activity was not substantially affected by toxic Cu2+ concentrations.
23782936|A number of Triticum genotypes originating from countries where the presence of Diuraphis noxia has previously been reported, were screened for resistance in the greenhouse. Six entries, exhibiting varying levels of resistance to D. noxia were identified. Further tests revealed variable antibiotic and antixenotic resistance to D. noxia with two T. aestivum entries and a T. monococcum entry showing superior levels of resistance.
90002878|The alterations and movements of toxic elements (Al, As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Pb, Zn) into the deeper soil layers were followed by means of soil examinations during the long term heavy metal load experiments initiated in the autumn of 1994 at Kroly Rbert College, Gyngys. The above mentioned toxic elements were released into the ploughed upper stratum. In May 1995 and July 2002 the upper 0-25 cm layer of the soil was sampled. Having examined the total element content we found that in the eighth year of the experiment the metallic contamination was demonstrable with the exception of mercury. The contamination decreased to a different extent in the case of each element. The greatest decrease was found in the case of cadmium (92%), followed by chromium (77%), arsenic (75%), lead (60%), copper (53%), and zinc (6%). In the case of the absorbable element content the greates decrease was observable in the case of cadmium and arsenic  91-92%. The other elements showed the following order: chromium (80%), lead (76%), copper (72%) and finally zinc (42%). The examination of the connection between the total and the absorbable element content proved that the total metallic contamination determines the soluble metallic content of the soil to a continually decreaseing extent. During the years the total element content went through a qualitative change as a result of which its solubility significantly dereased. The examination of the regression coefficients resulted in the fact that in 2002 the solubility of the treatment elements decreased by 5% in the case of cadmium, by 41% in the case of arsenic, by 52% in the case of copper and zinc, by 59% in the case of lead, and by 77% in the case of chromium compared to the 1995 values.
23786777|Experiments were conducted to study the genetic variability of Zn, Fe, Mn and Cu concentration in the shoot of wheat and other cereals. Cultivars of rye showed higher Zn efficiency than the wheats. There was a considerable variability for the four elements between rye and wheat varieties. By utilisation of disomic wheat-rye addition lines it could be demonstrated that the rye chromosomes 2R and 7R may improve the Mn and Fe concentrations of wheat, chromosome 1R the Zn and 5R the Cu, respectively. Even in a particular 4B/5R wheat-rye translocation line the Zn, Fe and Mn concentrations were significantly modified from 5.8 to 6.7, 92 to 171 and 123 to 236 g/g DW, respectively. Both wheat and rye positively respond to Zn supply in Zn concentration of shoots, although the effect in rye is less pronounced. The average increases in Zn concentration in wheat and rye reached 851 % and 689 %, respectively, and correlated with a subsequent decrease of Cu>Fe>Mn. Among the wheats there were remarkable differences in the uptake of Zn additionally applied. The English variety 'Avalon' showed the best Zn utilisation.
23782743|Two field experiments were conducted in 1978 and 1979 to determine the effect of two levels of night temperature elevation on sorghum yield components and to identify growth periods most sensitive to elevated night temperatures. Temperature treatments (5 and 10C above ambient) imposed during five different 7-day periods significantly (P = 0.05) reduced various yield components by between 16 and 22% but increased grain weight by 20%. Growth stages differed markedly with respect to their sensitivities to elevated night temperatures. A period of one week after floret differentiation was the most sensitive during panicle development.
90002323|The present study aimed to determine the effect of precipitation and fertilization (NPKCaMg) on the changes in soil organic carbon (SOC) in a long-term field experiment set up in Nyrlugos (Nyrsg region, Hungary: N: 47 41 60 and E: 22 2 80) on a Haplic Luvisol with popular rotation crops. Over the 40 year period, from 1962 to 2002, SOC pool values ranged between 2.32 and 3.36 mgkg
23783772|Inbreeding is carried out to develop inbred lines in maize (Zea mays L.) and other cross-pollinated crops. The sampling of foundation plants in a source population for inbreeding is critical, as the genetic worth of the lines that can be developed, is determined by the genes present in the foundation plants. It is, therefore, desirable that the size of foundation sample is increased and the foundation plants with better genotypic value are identified early. In the proposed approach, the foundation plants in a source population are phenotypically selected, and sampled as half sibs (HSs) rather than selfs (S1s), HS families are evaluated and selfed to develop S1 lines, and S1 lines or bulks are evaluated and selfed. The advantages are: (i) the sampling of foundation plants as HSs rather than S1s nearly quadruples the effective population size, (ii) HS family evaluation facilitates better identification of the genetic worth of foundation plants than S1 line evaluation since the differences among HS families are due to solely additive genetic variation whereas those among S1 lines are due to both additive and dominance variations, and (iii) the comparison of the performance of HS families and their S1 lines provides information on the tolerance to inbreeding. The approach should promote the derivation of inbred lines with upgraded genetic worth.
23789825|PCR assays specific for the GA insensitive dwarfing genes (alleles) Rht-B1b and Rht-D1b were employed to study a series of additional alleles of Rht-B1 and Rht-D1. The amplification profiles of Rht-B1b and Rht-B1d were not distinguishable from one another, whereas lines carrying Rht-B1c, Rht-B1e and Rht-B1f amplified a product analogous to that of the wild type. At the 4D locus, no discrimination was possible between Rht-D1b, Rht-D1c and Rht-D1d. As a result, the utilisation of these PCR assays is limited. Examples of the analysis of germplasm and spontaneous occurring off-types are presented.
90003416|To examine how water addition, fertilization and different abiotic stress factors can affect the species, especially weed composition and structure of a Central European loess grassland community,
90002327|The studies aimed to acquire the widest possible information on the annual flight in Hungary of the European corn borer (ECB),
23786970|Induction of embryogenesis without exogenous hormone-supplement has been reported in isolated microspore cultures of wheat and triticale so far. Here we report about haploid embryogenesis and plant regeneration without exogenous hormone-supply in isolated microspore cultures of barley. In both induction media and both genotypes (`Igri' and `Kymppi') applied, however, induction media containing 1 mg/l BAP lead to haploid embryoids of higher regeneration capacity than media without hormone-supplement. Highest rate of green plant regeneration (353 green plants/100,000 microspores) was achieved in cultivar `Igri' using a medium of optimized N-composition, supplemented with BAP. These results suggest that the induction of haploid embryogenesis is possible without exogenous hormone-supplement, while high level of plant regeneration requires the stimuli provided by hormones/growth regulators added to the induction medium.
23784028|Three Hungarian and 4 North-American winter wheat varieties and their 4 combinations (F1 hybrids) were grown in field trials during 1991/92. After harvest the yield of each genotype was tested for quality. Seven properties - water absorption of flour, development time of dough, stability of dough, quality number, farinograph value, loaf volume and protein content of flour - were examined. Negative heterosis or intermedier inheritance were found generally in all combinations for all characters. Positive heterosis was observed only in development time of dough, in quality number and in farinograph value in one cross.
23789830|The effect of different timings of fungicide applications on Fusarium head blight severity and mycotoxin accumulation in wheat grain was investigated in two field experiments. The fungicides metconazole, tebuconazole, azoxystrobin and mixtures of metconazole + azoxystrobin and tebuconazole + azoxystrobin were applied either, 5 days pre-, 2 days pre-, 2 days post- or 5 days post-inoculation of wheat ears with Fusarium spp. and Microdochium spp. at GS 65. Fungicides applied 2 days pre- or 2 days post-inoculation were most effective at reducing Fusarium head blight severity and DON concentration in grain. Metconazole and tebuconazole applied alone within two days of inoculation were most consistent in their effects on Tri5 DNA and DON in harvested grain.
23789848|Selection on the basis of grain yield per se for improved performance under excessive moisture stress has often been misleading and considered inefficient. We assessed the importance of secondary traits of adaptive value under waterlogging stress. During the 2000-2004 summer-rainy seasons twelve trials were conducted and a total of 436 tropical/subtropical inbred lines (S4-Sn) were evaluated under excessive soil moisture stress. Excessive moisture treatment was applied at V6-7 growth stage by flooding the experimental plots continuously for seven days. Different phenological and physiological parameters were recorded before, during and either immediately or 1-2 weeks after exposure to stress. Excessive moisture conditions significantly affected all the morphological and physiological traits studied. However, there was significant genetic variability for various traits, especially for root porosity and brace root development that were induced under excessive moisture. Across the trials, significant genetic correlations (p<0.01) was obtained between grain yield and different secondary traits, including ears per plant, root porosity, brace root fresh weight, number of nodes with brace roots and anthesis silking interval. Broad-sense heritability decreased under excessive moisture stress conditions for most of the traits; however, it increased significantly for root porosity, nodal root development and ears per plant. Our findings suggest that consideration of these secondary traits during selection of maize germplasm for excessive moisture tolerance can improve selection efficiency and genetic gains.
23783668|F1 Hybrid plants between Triticum aestivum and T. tripsacoides (2n = 2x = 14, genomically TT) have compressed heads when chromosome 3D is absent and a pair of accessory chromosomes from T. tripsacoides are present. It is proposed that this is due to the accessory chromosomes suppressing the compensating activity of the T genome for the absence of 3D.
90002973|The objectives of this paper were to examine influence of different testing environments (different soil type) and sowing rates on formation of winter wheat hectolitre weight and, after the stability analysis, to identify most stabile genotypes and locations. Research work was conducted on 14 winter wheat genotypes and four testing locations. On each location genotypes were sown in two sowing rates  330 and 600 germinable seeds m
90002888|One of the requirements imposed by the Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC is to analyze and predict long-term evolution of surface water quality parameters. During a 20-year period (19872006), concentrations of nutrients were studied in three model microbasins of the experimental Mostenik basin (Institute of Hydrology) in Central Slovakia: 1. Rybarik (agricultural), 2. Lesny (forested, hornbeam), and 3. Cingelova (forested, spruce). This study deals with a suitable stochastic Seasonal Auto-Regressive Integrated Moving Average (SARIMA) models that were used to simulate monthly nitrate concentrations in the Rybarik stream. Two regressors (fertilizer dozes and discharge) were added into the models to simulate the impact of fertilizers on nitrate content in the stream water.
23790380|Rice germplasm comprising wild species, low land and upland genotypes and 7 progenies of their inter-specific hybrids were tested under water levels of field capacity (100% moisture) and 75, 50 and 25% of field capacity. The objectives were to identify i) most water stress tolerant genotype, ii) characters associated with that genotype and iii) its ability to contribute water deficiency tolerance to lowland rice varieties. Experiment was conducted in potted soil with Randomized Complete Block two-factor factorial design and three replications. Different growth parameters were studied at tillering stage. Within an entry, reduction due to water level was significant in all the parameters. The interaction between various water levels and rice entries was also highly significant. We observed six parameters (shoot length, root length, shoot and root dry weight, number of tillers and leaf area) that were comparatively less affected in some of the progenies such as WAB-56-50 (shoot dry weight and root length), WAB-56-104 (root dry weight and tillers), WAB-272-H3 (leaf area) and WAB-272-H2 (shoot length) when tested under water level which is only 25% of the field capacity. This indicated that using these progenies as donor; water deficiency tolerance in lowland rice cultivars can be improved.
90003410|Adequate nutrient supply is one of the main abiotic factors of acceptable plant production. According to the requirements of sustainable agriculture the plant-cultivation applies adequate tools and matters in the given environmental capability beside the environmental protection in such a manner that it would give a profit for the agriculture. Application of chemicals, such as fertilizers may cause some problem for the environment. Abiotic stress, such as toxic elements, unconformable nutrient supply, may affect the operation of photosynthetic mechanisms. Measurements of chlorophyll fluorescence parameters make it possible to evaluate the plant's photosynthetic performance and the extent of its tolerance to environmental stress. The aim of work was to investigate the relationship between different nutrient supply and some chlorophyll-fluorescence parameters in the case of corn and sunflower. Plants were grown in hydroponic condition applying different nutrient solutions, and the parameters of
90003382|Weed canopy and species composition has been studied in relation with two climatic factors  precipitation and temperature  in a long term trial. 12 years experimental series of winter wheat and maize agronomic trials run at the Szent Istvn Universitys Nagygombos experimental site have been evaluated regarding coenological performance of weed-crop interrelation. 28 weed species representing 7 phenological types (T1, T2, T2-3, T3, T4, G1 and G3) were examined in relation with seasonal precipitation and temperature prior to their life cycles. Strong correlations were found in cases of various precipitation patterns, however in some cases precipitation x temperature interactions proved to be significant as well.
23787080|Incidences of multiple virus infections of wheat genotypes were studied in South Hungary over a five-year period (1994-1999). The viruses detected serologically were: Barley yellow dwarf luteovirus (BYDV), Barley stripe mosaic hordeivirus (BSMV), Brome mosaic bromovirus (BMV), Wheat dwarf bigemovirus (WDV) and Wheat streak mosaic tritimovirus (WSMV). Surprisingly BYDV was found less frequently in comparison to BRSMV, BSMV and WDV. It suggests that in this area BYDV is economically less important than other viruses infecting cereals. In many individual plants 2-5 different viruses were identified. The abundant multiple infections of several virus species suggest that the estimation of natural viral infection cannot be based only on the analysis of a single virus species. On the other hand the development of multiple resistance in wheat seems to be essential to defend the plants against the most important viruses in a given area.
23784027|The effect of superoxide anion on uredospores of wheat stem rust was studied in the riboflavin/methionine photochemical system. Both spore germination and elongation of germ tube could be almost perfectly inhibited by superoxide treatment. When superoxide dismutase (SOD) enzyme was added to the system, the germination percentage and the germ tube length were similar to the control, non-treated ones. Changes in infectivity and in virulence spectrum of spores after treatment was also investigated on near isogenic wheat lines with or without single resistance genes to stem rust. As a result of superoxide treatment the number of pustules decreased, but the reaction type on isogenic lines with various resistance genes did not change. On the contrary, when leaves were treated 5-6 days after infection with superoxide, the original compatible infection type changed to hypersensitive necrosis. The phospholipid content was lower, while lipid peroxidation was 8 times higher in treated then in control spores.
90002794|During the period of 2003-2005 the effect of different NPK fertiliser rates on the proteinase activity of alluvium planted to plum was examined. The trial was carried out in a trial plum plantation of the Fruit Research Institute and at the Microbiology Department of the Faculty of Agronomy in Cacak. The soil was treated with mineral fertilisers having a 8:16:24 + 3 % MgO formulation, as follows: variant 1 (control)  non-fertilised soil; variant 2  400 kg ha
90002325|The species-specific PCR assays correctly identified pure cultures of
23780403|A new method is described for the simple and rapid determination of -amylase activity in wheat using the Perkin-Elmer Model 191 Grain Amylase Analyzer, which is a modification of a widely used method for clinical determination of serum amylase. This instrument measures the rate of change of light scattered from the substrate suspension. A 2001 aliquot of a sample extract is added to a cuvette containing 3ml of a - limit dextrin substrate, which is buffered at pH 5.5 and maintained at a constant temperature. The measurement is made as the reaction follows zero-order kinetics during an automatically timed cycle. The rate of decrease in nephelos is a direct measure of the amount of -amylase present. The method is calibrated with a standard -amylase solution. Results obtained by this method are compared with other procedures used for the determination of -amylase activity. This method can be used to provide an index of sprout damage in wheat.
90002773|There is an increasing demand in recent years for results of ecotoxicological measurements beside chemical analytical results in case of soils polluted by toxic elements. Taxonomical diversity measurements of soil fungi showed that the mycota had reconstructed after a giant pollution of the soil, as a result of a 15 years long phytoremediation experiment using agricultural and horticulture plants. The reduction of soil fungal populations affected by cadmium and selenium loading could have been hardly estimated after a 15 years long cultivation with traditional agricultural and horticultural plants. The taxonomical diversity of soil mycota has also almost restored. 21 species could be obtained from the plots treated with cadmium, 18 from the soil treated with selenium, and 28 from untreated control soil.
23787074|To investigate the genetic properties of some physiological and agronomical characters in maize, a six-parent diallel cross, excluding reciprocals, was grown in a randomized complete block design with three replications under two different environments (irrigated and rainfed) in the Research Station of Dezful, Iran. High narrow-sense heritability estimates were observed for relative water loss, excised leaf water retention, number of seed per plant, seed weight and number of ear per plant. Additive gene action was found to be predominant for relative water loss, excised leaf water retention, seed weight and number of ear per plant. The results of combining ability analysis revealed that the genotype k1515 was the best general combiner for improvement of osmoregulation, and k18  k1264 and k19  k1264 were the best specific combination for improvement of osmotic adjustment and stress tolerance index.
23785266|Septoria tritici blotch is an important disease of wheat in many areas of the world that causes significant yield losses. Breeding for resistance to the disease is an important tool as a control measure. To efficiently breed wheat for resistance, an understanding of the inheritance of the resistance is required. This work is a part of a project to study the inheritance of the resistance to the disease. The aim was to determine the response to selection and realized heritability when selection for a reduction in percentage of pycnidial coverage was carried out in two wheat crosses. The response to selection and heritability showed moderate values. According to the results of these crosses, selection for resistance to the disease on a single plant basis could be successful but probably slow. Optimization of selection is discussed.
23783753|Presented studies indicated that cold pretreatments of spikes and anther culture incubation temperatures did not influence anther culture success to any extent. Similarly, different regeneration media for calli and 2,4-D concentration at induction were not very effective in altering response although genotypes showed significant differences. Thus, efforts were turned to changes in the induction media for barley anther culture. Six modifications to BAC1 media resulted in BAC3 which improved callus induction on all 3 genotypes tested. However, a very significant improvement in green plant production and total plant production occurred with two of the genotypes and was associated with better embryo formation. These media changes appear to improve embryo and plant production for the vast majority of genotypes tested to date and future studies will attempt to clarify the critical media and physical factors in barley anther culture.
90003189|Three cycles of selfed progeny recurrent selection to improve grain yield and standability have been conducted in the M3S maize population. Besides selfed progeny selection the third cycle of selection also included recurrent selection based on evaluation of full sib (FS) progenies. Resulting cycle populations (C0, C1, C2, C3-S1 and C3-FS) were evaluated for their per se performances during three years in natural conditions (N) and under artificial stalk infection with
23792333|In Australia in the early 1890s, the wheat breeder William Farrer and chemist Frederick Guthrie shared a vision of selecting cross-bred wheats for enhanced grain quality. Guthrie was the newly appointed chemist of the Department of Agriculture of the Colony of New South Wales. Their goal to select lines with good milling quality was difficult because Farrer's plots produced only ounces of grain for testing. In a day when there was no written background to the task, Guthrie set about devising small-scale milling equipment that could produce flour from the many small samples of grain coming from Farrer's breeding program. Guthrie used two pairs of small rolls manufactured by the Ganz Company of Budapest. The testing procedure was extremely tedious, requiring 13 successive passes of milling and sieving. Guthrie's test mill and the results have been described in several publications. In addition, his mill has been reconstructed as a one-quarter-scale model as a result of the efforts of Mr Colin Hopkins, a retired chemical engineer. In contrast to this 120-year-old technology, there is now more advanced technology for test milling very small grain samples (only 5 to 10 grams of grain) with the development of a novel laboratory micro-mill, the FQC-2000, manufactured by Inter-Labor, Hungary. These old and new developments have involved collaborations between Hungary and Australia.
23790017|Genotypes with various Vp-1B alleles perform different levels of pre-harvest sprouting (PHS) tolerance. In this study, 217 white-grained wheat cultivars, including 75 landraces, 39 historical cultivars, and 103 modern cultivars from five major regions of China, were examined to characterize the diversity of the Viviparous-1B (Vp-1B) locus associated with PHS tolerance. Four Vp-1B alleles were identified, three (Vp-1Ba, Vp-1Bb and Vp-1Bc) of which were previously reported in Chinese wheat cultivars. A new allele, Vp-1Be, was identified in the PHS tolerant landrace Hongheshangtou. Sequence analysis showed that Vp-1Be had an insertion of a 4-bp fragment, two SNPs, and a deletion of an 83-bp fragment compared with the nucleotide sequence of Vp-1Ba (AJ400713), all located in the third intron. Vp-1Be shared 97.80% similarity with the nucleotide sequence of AJ400713. The frequencies of Vp-1Ba, Vp-1Bb, and Vp-1Bc were 36.0%, 5.3%, and 57.3% in landraces; 23.1%, 7.7%, and 69.2% in historical cultivars; and 52.4%, 0%, and 47.6% in current cultivars, respectively.
90002898|In phylogenetics, there are several ways to infer phylogenetic relationships. Bayesian inference for estimating phylogenetic trees has been proposed as one of the most suitable character-based methods. It is based on the notion of posterior probabilities: probabilities that are estimated after learning something from the data. In this study we have firstly tried to study phylogenetic relationships by Bayesian methods in the
90003077|The aim of our work was to demonstrate the effects of digestate application as a nutrient source on crop yield, on the inside content value of test plant and on soil physico-chemical and biological parameters. The digestate was used at the rates of 0, 5 and 10 L m
23790153|Winter wheat varieties: Ebi, Estica, Samanta were grown in three experimental variants (control, drought stress and high temperature, stress and the application of 24-epibrassinolide). The plants were monitored for the weight of the dry matter and the straw and grain yields. The stressors were found to have a negative effect on the amount of dry matter in the above-ground wheat biomass and the yield of grain and straw. Drought and high temperature lowered the amount of dry matter in the grain and straw in all varieties. For all monitored varieties the application of 24-epibrassinolide reduced the negative effect of the monitored stressors. The best reaction to the application of 24-epibrassinolide was seen in the variety Estica, the worst in the variety Samanta. Of the varieties monitored the variety Samanta exhibited the tolerance to drought and high temperatures. On the contrary Ebi is a sensitive variety.
23783856|Nitrogen assimilation and remobilization in T. aestivum lines developed as a result of crossing T. aestivum with Ae. crassa species (used as high protein donor) as well as in T. aestivum parental cultivar and Ae. crassa species are discussed. Considerable differences between Ae. crassa species, hybrid lines and T. aestivum parental cultivar were found in nitrogen assimilation and remobilization. Nitrogen content in the seeds of hybrid lines depended on nitrogen assimilation and remobilization. The NHI/GHI ratio, which reflects the proportion between the translocation of nitrogen to other compounds in the seeds was considerably higher in Ae. crassa species as compared to the same ratios in hybrid lines and T. aestivum parental cultivar. Most of hybrid lines had higher values of NHI/GHI ratios and higher percentage of grain nitrogen as compared to T. aestivum parental cultivar.
23783864|Analysis of data from aerial infrared photographs has recently been proposed as a supplemental tool to evaluate and improve the efficiency of the classical ANOVA for variety trial experiments. Our objective was to establish the relationships between spring wheat grain yield and remotely-sensed data from a variety trial. Infrared photographs of a variety trial were taken at six field-sites during the 1990 growing season. Significant (P0.05) regressions between grain yield and remotely-sensed data were detected at five out of six field-sites. However, the low r2 values for remotely-sensed versus grain yield data suggested that much of the sample variability was not explained by these models. Spring wheats with high yields showed correspondingly high estimates of a normalized difference vegetative index. Analysis of covariance using near infrared and red values as covariates, was successfully used to reduce the variance of errors in grain yield. This method resulted in significant genotype effects detected at four of six field-sites compared to one with the classical analysis. Future research must develop more accurate methods of remotely-sensed analysis, including the need to take the infrared photographs at the correct growth stage and time with regard to environmental stresses.
90003130|Efficacy of acetochlor tested in France and Hungary in the past five years at two different dose rates was correlated to rainfall received in those trials. Herbicide treatments were applied preemergence at 1600 and 2000 g ai/ha rates. Percent control of Echinochloa crus-galli (ECHCG) was visually assessed. Data presented shows percent control at the last evaluation. Weed control efficacy of acetochlor is impacted by the rainfall. Soil applications of acetochlor require adequate rainfall to activate the molecule. Data from these trials showed that 14 mm of rainfall is required during the first two weeks after application for optimal activation of acetochlor.
90002920|We have studied the effect of the different dosages of bentonite, in addition to basic treatments, on acidic sandy soil. Our test plant was rye-grass
23792324|Leaf rust, caused by Puccinia recondita f. sp. tritici, and powdery mildew, caused by Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici, are the most prevalent of all of the wheat diseases in many regions of the world including Poland. These two diseases can cause serious epidemics in Poland. The aim of presented research was pyramiding of leaf rust and powdery mildew resistance genes in a one genotype. A leaf rust resistance gene Lr41, derived from Triticum tauschii (syn. Aegilops squarrosa) and powdery mildew resistance gene, derived from Dasypyrum villosum (syn. Haynaldia villosa), were successfully transferred into the polish winter wheat variety. A line KS90WGRC10 was used as the resistance source of Lr41 for leaf rust and the 6VS/6AL translocation line Yangmai 5 was used as the resistance source of Pm21 for powdery mildew. In foreground selection several molecular markers for Lr41 (Gdm35, Barc124, Gwm261, Gwm296 and Gwm210) and Pm21 (SCAR 1250 , SCAR 1400 and NAU/xibao) were applied. After the first backcrosses (BC 1 F 1 ), background selection was conducted using a set of 5 AFLP primer combinations. In addition, for the screening of the BC 1 F 2 and BC 1 F 3 population, selected lines were inoculated in the greenhouse at the three-leaf stage with a natural pathogen population of P. recondita and B. graminis. The marker-assisted selection and pathology test allowed us to obtain hormozygous lines carrying two resistance genes to leaf rust and powdery mildew in winter wheat.
23790006|Soil water balance was studied in a 25-year-old experiment, on chernozem soil, in different crop-rotation systems (mono-, bi- and triculture) in dry (2007) and rainy (2008) seasons, in maize production. Soil water deficit values in maize production were much lower in 2008 than in 2007 in non-irrigated and irrigated plots of three crop rotation systems because of favourable precipitation supply. We found difference between the water deficit values of two irrigation treatments. We measured lower values in irrigated plots of three crop-rotation systems before sowing: non-irrigated plots in monoculture 105 mm, in biculture 101 mm, in triculture 121 mm and irrigated plots in monoculture 90 mm, in biculture 91 mm, in triculture 111 mm. Soil waterstock started to decrease with the rise in average temperature and, despite an increase in precipitation quantity, we calculated higher water deficit values. Precipitation in August and the high average temperature intensified the water deficit. Water deficit showed its highest values in early September. We examined the water balance of the soil profile in 02.0 m and we concluded that the water deficit of the 0.81.2 m soil layers was most intensive in both non-irrigated and irrigated treatments, because of significant root mass. Our results showed that irrigation had a more important influence on the yield in a dry cropyear (2007 characterized by abiotic, water stress) than in an optimum water supply cropyear (2008).
90002919|In this paper the effect of four different herbicides were examined on some parameters of carbon cycle of a chernozem soil in corn monoculture. While the effect of herbicides was negative an the total bacterim number and on the aerobic cellulose decomposing bacteria, the CO
23789870|Treatment with various concentrations (0, 5, 15 and 20%) of PEG was used to simulate water stress, followed by inoculation with Drechslera tritici-repentis (DTR) at two different points of time (6 and 72 h after the PEG treatment) in two DTR resistant (M-3 and Mv Magvas) and two sensitive (Bezostaya 1 and Glenlea) wheat varieties. The reduction in biomass production due to the PEG treatments was more pronounced in the shoots than in the roots. While in the case of Bezostaya 1 5% PEG reduced the level of infection, 20% PEG treatment lowered the tolerance level of M-3. DTR infection may be more efficient in inducing antioxidative defence systems than water stress. However, there was no direct correlation between the activity of the individual antioxidant enzymes and the drought or DTR tolerance of wheat plants.
90003460|The agricultural area south to the village of Gyngysoroszi, Hungary is heavily polluted with toxic metals of mining origin. The hobby gardens are regularly flooded by the Toka-creek, which carries metal polluted sediment from the abandoned mining area north to the village. Due to the anthropogenic stress the vegetables and crops produced in the area contain high amount of toxic metals, which represents unacceptable risk for humans and other members of the food chain. The metal content of plants was found to be above the limit value for food and fodder. The activity of the soil microflora was lower than in the unpolluted area and the soil was toxic for bacteria, plants and animals, according to ecotoxicological test-results. To reduce the stress posed on soil living organisms and plants, the area is planned to be treated by combined chemical and phytostabilisation, which reduces the mobility of metals and therefore their availability for plants and other organisms. A wide selection of chemical stabilisers was tested in microcosms and field experiments. Due to the most efficient fly ash treatment and the properly selected plants the metal accumulation of plants grown close to the creek decreased by 7078% thus getting below the limit value. Further away from the creek the lower initial value decreased by 2050% after treatment. The biological activity of the soil microflora increased and the toxicity of the soil decreased by 1632% according to bacterial and plant biotests.
90003491|Copper containing pesticides are widely used in the agriculture against phytopathogenic bacteria and fungi. As a result, the level of copper in agricultural soils is regularly high which could cause many ecotoxicological effects. Relevant co-application of biocontrol microorganisms with copper containing pesticides requires the evaluation of the copper tolerance levels of biocontrol microorganisms: especially the effect of copper ions on the antagonistic potential of the strains has to be investigated.
23783001|Advanced T. durum lines selected among the progeny of a cross between 'Valgerardo', a high-yielding semidwarf (Gai/Rht 1 carrier), and 'Trinakria', a tall cultivar known for its higher protein content, were examined over a four-year period in order to gain further insights into the inheritance of grain protein percentage in agronomically uniform materials. The protein frequency distributions displayed by both tall and dwarf derivatives consistently presented bi-modal patterns, thus suggesting that 'Trinakria' carries a major protein gene, not linked with the gai/rht 1 allele. No detrimental associations between this particular protein gene and grain yield, test weight, and kernel weight were observed. Parental varieties were found to differ also by a second gene or gene-complex, responsible for the relatively small but highly significant protein percentage differences between tall and dwarf segregants. Moderately high interyear correlation coefficients for protein (.38  .67) were found both in tall and dwarf lines. 'Improper' plant type variability in segregating populations is known to biass protein inheritance patterns as well as hereditability estimates. The present study, based on advanced materials selected for agronomic similarity, permitted to assess more accurately the practical breeding value of 'Trinakria' as a protein donor parent.
23782913|Callus induction and plant regeneration from various explants (seed, plumule meriste, shoot apex, anther, and immature inflorescence) of rice were investigated. Plant regeneration from seed-derived callus was low (an average of 15,8%) and genotypic dependent. Plumule meristem produced high totipotent callus in all genotypes used on the meddium supplemented with 1,0 mg/1 2,4-D and 0,4 mg/1 kinetin. The frequency of plant regeneration increased from 37 % to 83 % when the concentration of 2,4-D was decreased from 2,0 mg/1 to 1,0 mg/1 at two levels of kinetin (0,4 and 0,6 mg/1) on the callus inducing and subculturing medium. Haploid immature inflorescence callus showed high regeneration capacity (90-97%) than those of anther and shoot apex and regenerated only green plants.
23787571|Full-sib families derived from Pool 16 DT, a tropical maize (Zea mays L.) population, were evaluated in the 1995/96 and 1997/98 dry seasons, using two sites each season in Cte d'Ivoire. In all sites, the crop was irrigated from planting to about 2 weeks before anthesis, irrigation was discontinued thereafter for the rest of the season in one site in 1995 and both sites in 1997. Irrigation was continued till maturity in the second site in 1995. The means and ranges showed that the induced stress environments produced significantly lower grain yield, fewer ears per plant (EPP) and lower grain moisture percentage than the non-stressed site. The coefficients of variation (CVs) associated with the stressed environment were consistently larger than those associated with the non-stressed environment. Similarly, the coefficients of determination (R2) values were generally higher for the non-stressed than the stressed site. Only 7 families were common to the highest-yielding 20 % of the 90 families in each evaluation environment in 1995 and the 7 families were ranked differently in the stressed relative to the non-stressed environments. EPP, plant height (PHT) and ear height (EHT) had consistent positive correlation with grain yield; correlations of days to anthesis and silking date with yield were negative. The induced stress did not properly elicit the true differences among families and may, therefore, need to be modified. We are presently experimenting with a slight modification of the method by irrigating whenever the maize plants start showing signs of temporary wilting such as leaf rolling early in the day.
23780418|The -amylase zymograms of 9 inbred sublines of rye selected for sprouting resistance were compared to those of 3 sublines selected for high sprouting disposition, 2 varieties and one wild species. No systematic zymogram differences which could be correlated to the overall -amylase activity and the sprouting number of these genotypes could be found. preliminary results are given about the GA content in germinating seeds of rye.
23786227|During the process of plant breeding and selection of new winter wheat cultivars a lot of attention is paid to the improvement of the main components of grain yield-number of ears/m2, number of grains per ear and 1000 seed weight. Production of cultivars that achieve a large number of fertile ears per unit area, a large number of grains per ear and a heavy 1000 seed weight, even with a lower density, would mean that a high grain yield is achieved with lower costs. It is of great importance for wheat production in Croatia. Along with the research on sowing rate influence (400, 500, 600 and 700 germinable seeds/m2) on winter wheat grain yield, other trials were done on the grain yield components (number of ears per unit area, number of grains per ear and 1000 seed weight) during periods 1996-1997 and 1997-1998 both on three AG cultivars of winter wheat Lara, Kruna and Lenta and on the check cultivar itarka. The trial was done according to the split-plot method in 4 replications. Statistically speaking, various sowing rates had a very significant influence on the number of ears per unit area. The largest number was achieved with the sowing rate of 700 germinable seeds/m2 (783,38 ears/m2). This number of ears is statistically more significant (P<0,05) in relation to the sowing rate of 600 germinable seeds/m2, and statistically very significant (P<0,01) in relation to the sowing rates of 400 and 500 germinable seeds/m2. On the grounds of the results obtained by a statistical analysis it was established that the sowing rate did not have a statistically significant influence on the other two grain yield components - number of grains per ear and 1000 seed weight. The investigated cultivars had a statistically very significant influence (P<0,01) on the number of grains per ear, and a statistically significant influence on 1000 seed weight, whereas there were no statistically significant differences between the investigated cultivars in relation to the number of ears per unit area. The largest grain number was achieved with the cultivar Lenta (46,36 grains) and the heaviest 1000 seed weight with the cultivar Lara (45,72 g). The year of research had a very significant influence on the height of all investigated yield components in terms of statistics; the first year of research is characterized by better results, unlike the second. On the grounds of the obtained results it may be concluded that production of the investigated cultivars with lower density is possible, despite the fact that two out of three main yield components were not under influence of the sowing rate.
23781406|Yield stability of soft white winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars and lines grown in pre-release trials at 16 locations in Ontario for 2 or 3 years was studied. Individual cultivar and line mean yields were regressed on location-year mean yields. The regression coefficient (b) was used as a criterion of responsiveness to environment, with b > 1 indicating above average response. Stability was indicated by large coefficients of determination (r2) and small deviations from regression (S2d). While cultivar mean yields exceeded those of lines, they had larger b's and r2's and smaller S2d's. Winter wheat breeders should select for large b and r2 and small S2d in addition to high yield, although a small b would be acceptable in the rare instance where mean yield is exceptionally high.
23784242|Minimizing the number of tillers in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) that fail to produce grain may result in more rapid and efficient grain development, important considerations in many northern areas. The purpose of this research was to quantify effects of cultivar, seeding rate, and row spacing on the number of surviving tillers in barley. The barley cultivars 'Otal', 'Eero', and 'Jackson' were grown at seeding rates of 60, 170, and 280 kernels m-2, and row spacings of 15 and 30 cm. Averaged across three years, Eero, the highest-tillering cultivar, had the highest percent tiller survival and Jackson, the lowest-tillering cultivar, had the lowest. The intermediate seeding rate of 170 kernels m-2 had the highest percent tiller survival. There was no significant effect of row spacing on percent tiller survival. It was concluded that high-tillering cultivars are not necessarily less efficient in producing high percentages of grain-bearing spikes, and that row spacing would not be an effective management practice to enhance tiller survival.
23790048|The effects of Bipolaris sorokiniana inoculation on accumulation of hydrogen peroxide and changes in the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), non-specific peroxidase (PX) and -1,3-glucanase enzymes in leaves of differentially resistant spring barley and meadow fescue were investigated in this study. Hydrogen peroxide accumulated slightly in inoculated barley leaves 24 hours after inoculation, and its accumulation after 48 hours of pathogenesis remained week around sites of infection. In leaves of fescue, which is more resistant to B. sorokiniana, accumulation of H 2 O 2 was faster and stronger in comparison to barley. A slight increase in SOD activity was observed only in infected fescue. Catalase activity in infected barely leaves decreased significantly 48 hours after inoculation, while in fescue-infected plants CAT activity, following a slight decrease, remained similar to the control values. PX activity was considerable lower in inoculated barley leaves after 6 hours, but at 24 and 48 hours after inoculation its activity increased significantly compared to the control. In inoculated fescue leaves activity of PX was higher at 6 and 24 hours compared to the control, while at 48 hours PX activity was strongly inhibited. -1,3-Glucanase activity in inoculated barley plants did not differ from that of the control, while in infected fescue leaves it increased significantly 48 hours after inoculation. Based on the results, we suggest that the strong accumulation of H 2 O 2 , changes in antioxidant levels, together with the significant increase of -1,3-Glucanase activity in infected fescue leaves, plays an important role in fescue's greater resistance to B. sorokiniana.
23787178|A survey for detection of Barley yellow dwarf viruses (BYDV-PAV, BYDV-MAV) and Cereal yellow dwarf virus (CYDV), Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV), Brome mosaic virus (BMV), Barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV) was carried out during May 2003 covering 9 barley-growing counties (Tekirda-center, orlu, erkezky, Hayrabolu, Saray, arky, Malkara, Muratl, Marmara Erelisi) of Tekirda, Turkey. 290 samples with yellowing, stunting, or striping were collected from 29 barley fields. These samples were tested for the presence of 7 viruses by ELISA using polyclonal antisera. Serological tests showed that 7 tested viruses were present in barley fields in Tekirda, Turkey. Among the viruses detected, BYDV-PAV was the commonest, being detected in 65 barley samples out of 290 tested (22.41 %), followed by BYDV-MAV (17.93 %), WDV (16.20 %), BaYMV (13.44 %), BMV and CYDV (7.93 %) and BSMV (3.10 %), respectively. This is the first report for the presence of BaYMV, BMV and BSMV in cereals in Turkey.
23782932|Hybrids between Hordeum procerum (6x) and Agropyron caninum (4x) were produced following embryo rescue techniques. Chromosome pairing was fairly high, giving a mean pairing frequency of 16.82I + 7.59II + 0.76III + 0.18IV with a chiasmata frequency of 11.63 per cell. This was much higher than the chiasmata frequency (7.15) earlier observed in H. parodii x A. caninum, and was attributed largely to allosyndesis, although some autosyndetic pairing may have occurred. The two species have at least one H genome in common and the S genome of Agropyron may also be partly related.
90003195|At the experimental field of the Zagreb Bc Institute in Botinec new winter wheat lines are tested for Fusarium head blight resistance under artificial conditions and for yield under natural conditions. The most promising lines were tested in a trial laid out as RCBD in four replications. The trial consisted of 25 genotypes including the standards for resistance: Roazon, Poncheau and (D4
90003243|Plants and animals are able to inactivate mycotoxins and other xenobiotics by sulfo-conjugation as part of phase II detoxification. ZON-4-sulfate (Z4S) is produced by
23786989|Nitrogen and irrigation effects on malt and wort quality traits were studied in two and six row barleys. Varietal effects were highly significant for malt yield, hot water extract (HWE), diastatic power (DP), wort viscosity, Kolbach index (KI), wort filtration rate, malt friability and homogeneity. The increase in nitrogen levels increased the DP, HWE, and decreased the wort filtration rate but was within the permissible limits even at 90 kg N/ha. Irrigation significantly increased the DP, malt yield, KI and malt homogeneity. The increase, though not significant was also observed in wort filtration rate and malt friability with more irrigation.
90003453|High clay content soils cover more than 2,5 million ha (28%) of the total area of Hungary. These soils make up a relatively homogenous group based on its special morphological, physical, chemical and hydrological properties, but in the recent Hungarian Soil Classification System (HSCS) belong to several different soil taxonomic units on the lower levels of classification. The development of most its special characteristics is determined by a swelling pressure, occurring when the layer silicate clays, especially smectites, adsorb water. The dilatation of the clays during hydration generate an abiotic stress resulting in special morphological features as slickensides or wedge-shaped aggregate units in the soil, and also determine fertility, soil management practices and the success of crop production. The paper is providing descriptions of these special morphological features, on the example of some high content soils of Hungary.
23781439|During the active phase of grain development a slow plastid membrane development, particularly in large amyloplasts of triticale endosperm cells, possibly could not keep pace with very fast synthesis and accumulation of starch. Such a noncomplimentation between synthetic and structural components appeared to result in either disintegration of the plastid membrane and/or render it more prone to attack by starch degradative enzyme(s) followed by exposure of amyloplast starch to phosphorylase, degradation of starch, decline in rate of starch synthesis leading to lower degree of grain shrivelling. This character seems to have been inherited from rye parents only. Suitable indices which might also serve as markers have been suggested so that right type of parents might be selected in order to breed for improved grains by introducing more synchrony between synthetic and structural components in the ensuing triticale progeny.
23786974|Separation and characterization of the seed hordeins in three barley species (Hordeum vulgare L., 2n=2x=14, Hordeum spontaneum L., 2n=2x=14 and Hordeum bulbosum L., 2n=4x=28) by high-performance capillary electrophoresis (HPCE) and the potential use of HPCE for varietal identification were investigated. Different protein extraction and electrophoresis conditions were tested and the following method appeared to be optimal for seed hordein analysis of barley: hordeins were extracted with 40% aqueous ethanol (v/v) and separated in 0.1 M phosphate-glycine buffer (pH 2.5), containing 20% acetonitrile (ACN) and 0.05% hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose (HPMC), using a 27 cm (25 m ID, 20 cm LD) capillary at 12.5 kV and 40 C on a BioFocus 3000 HPCE instrument (Bio-Rad). Reproducibility for run-to-run separations was good by rinsing the capillary with 1 M phosphoric acid and separation buffer for 2 min, respectively, after each analysis. The high-resolution and rapid separation and characterization for barley hordeins were achieved with the above method, and two protein subclasses, B and C hordeins could be readily separated and identified. Hordein HPCE patterns of three barley species showed apparent qualitative and quantitative differences. In particular, the two diploid species showed relatively similar hordein patterns, while the tetraploid specie exhibited evident differences in protein components and elution time, especially in the C hordein range. HPCE appears to be capable of rapid, high-resolution, reproducible, and automated separation of seed hordeins, and therefore, it has a great potential for protein separation, characterization and varietal identification in barley breeding and end-use.
23792368|The aim of this study was to find genetic variability within established cultivars of barley, bread and durum wheat, after applying salinity stress for five years. Bread wheat varieties Irnerio, Generoso and Yecora, together with durum wheat varieties Mexicali81, Simeto and Bob, and barley varieties Athinais and Cannon were used. For this purpose, certified seed of the above-mentioned varieties was sown in pots containing a mixture of soils salinized by different quantities of salt. Following a certain experimental scheme that produced progressively new treatments at the same or higher salinity level and after five cycles of evaluation, there were formed new seed partitions for final evaluation under honeycomb designs. The results showed that wheat and barley genomes are quite flexible, allowing selection within variety for certain agronomic performance. Salt stress proved to be a serious stress for the health of evaluated plants (for all species) and thus, we were not able to discover genotypes exhibiting salt tolerance. Seed germination and plant yield declined rapidly at higher concentrations of salt. In spite of this, comparing two-year honeycomb experimental data, these stress conditions resulted indirectly to drought tolerance (due to the flexibility of genomes for species used), confirmed from additional data after evaluation of barley varieties in pots. The genetic mechanism for such phenotypic behavior remains to be studied.
90002974|The paper presents the plant density effect on the forage yield and quality and seed yield of red clover cultivars over 2002-2004. Four red clover cultivars (K-17, Kolubara, K-32, Viola) grown at inter-row spacings of 20 cm (18kg ha
23779385|Relationships between yield components and productivity of F3 plants and their progenies were evaluated. Within group of low-competitive F3 plants with small productivity it was dominantly affected by main-stem ear productivity and in that mostly by average weight of (one) grain. Within group of big competitors with high productivity it was dominantly affected by total productivity of secondary stemsars and in that by number of grains. In F3 population as a whole the biological importance of components was in the rank: number of ear-bearing stems>number of ripened grains>1000-grain weight. The same was true for F4 progenies of both groups of plants and also for F4 population as a whole. The progenies of both groups of plants have approximately the same productivity and Yield. Based on biological principles of reproduction value importance for further yield improvement in wheat, the advancement of synchronous tillering and better exploitation of reserves in ear productivity (resulting from differences between potential and realized number of florets and embryos)is recommended.
90003405|The stress effect of Plum pox virus (PPV) on the vegetative growth and yield of cv. Stanley was examined under the conditions of Cacak (Western Serbia) in 2006-2007. The results showed that PPV induced significant differences in one-year-old shoot length (17.00%), fruit weight (6.21%) and yield per tree and unit area (20.61%) between infected and non-infected trees.
23781522|The objective of the experiment was to evaluate the performance of four wheat cultivars under different levels of moisture and to identify certain mechanisms which can be used to screen for drought resistance. The durum cultivars, Hourani, Stork and Wascana and the spring wheat Pavon 76 were grown in the field under three levels of moisture stress: Rainfed conditions (R); supplementary irrigation (SI) and stress (S) imposed at 3 leaf stage. Moisture levels affected the traits studied with stress treatment significantly reducing biological, grain and straw yield, plant height and area of flag leaf. The cultivars differed in the traits studied. Though no interaction was observed between variety  moisture level, the local cultivar Hourani was more stable under the moisture levels tested. The semidwarf cultivar Stork produced the highest grain yield (3284 kg/ha) under supplementary irrigation and the yield was reduced by 35 % when exposed to the stress treatment. Under supplementary irrigation Hourani produced the lowest grain yield which was reduced only by 18 % when grown under stress. Significant effects were not observed for moisture levels tested on flag leaf area after heading and on relative water content (RWC), however, data showed that the reductions in the leaf area of Hourani and Wascana upon growing them under stress compared to (SI) treatment were smaller than in the case of Stork and Pavon 76.
23790004|Application of the appropriate N fertilizer rate for wheat production is needed to improve and sustain productivity. Different methods have been developed over time to estimate these needs. The objective of this work was to evaluate the relationship basal N rate at planting  NDVI (normalized difference vegetative index) by means of a spline regression to estimate further N needs of spring wheat. Experiments were established in two planting systems; permanent beds and conventional in solid stands. Three flat N rates (25, 50, and 75 kg N ha 1 , and 30, 60 and 90 kg Nha 1 for permanent beds and conventional planting, respectively) plus an unfertilized check plot were applied according to three N timing treatments (whole rate at planting or end of tillering, and split at planting and at the end of tillering). Before the application of N treatments at the end of tillering, plots were divided into two halves to apply variable N rates according to the first segment of the spline model. Results indicated that parameter estimates from the spline regression vary within each planting system. However, variable N rates estimated for each year and location were lower than flat N rates. In spite of those differential fertilizer rates, grain yield resulting for the application of variable N rates were similar to flat N rates. Pooled data analysis suggests that NDVI readings greater than 0.56 and 0.65 for permanent beds and conventional planting, respectively, the application of N fertilizer at the end of tillering can be excluded as grain yield will not be modified.
23783959|During three seasons the frost hardiness of 10 primary hexaploid triticale strains (TPH) and their six winter durum wheat and four rye parental cultivars was evaluated in controlled freezing tests. The average frost hardiness of THP strains was equal to 47,8%, wheat and rye cultivars - 19,4 and 88,5% survived plants respectively. The hardiness of the THP strains did not always depend on the trait expression in the wheat genotypes, but in some cases it depended to a great extent on rye genotype. It is obvious that the effect of rye frost hardiness genes was additive but the expression of these genes was decreased under the influence of the wheat genome. Since the frost hardiness of the best primary triticale strains obtained in the experiment was moderate, they should be used in hybridization programs for developing secondary triticale lines in order to improve this trait through the process of genes recombination followed by selection.
23781545|A method to screen wheat varieties for their reaction to Ustilago tritici was tested on 22 combinations of six varieties and eight races. The method did not identify the resistant varieties.
90002828|The core of the modern environmentally friendly precision plant protection technology is the exact mapping of the infected area. The delineation of the infection makes the plant protection more effective and at the same time lowers the quantity of the harmful and costly pesticides. The paper presents the allocation of the cercospora disease with remote sensing techniques. The examinations of the spatial variability of sugar beet leaf area were performed in the frame of a large scale field pest control experiment in the Tedej model area. The effects of different pest control treatments on leaf area - applied on the model area - were studied by processing DAIS 7915 images.
23787280|The incidence of the parasitic weeds, Striga spp. in the savanna and the mid-altitude ecology of Africa is on the increase. Eight inbred lines of maize developed for the mid-altitude ecology and a susceptible check (TZi 10) were evaluated in Mokwa, Nigeria for two seasons to determine their performance under Striga hermonthica, the most widespread species of Striga in Africa. The experiment was a split-plot with three replications; infestation treatments (Striga-infested and non-infested) and maize inbreds constituted the main and sub-plots, respectively. There were no significant differences among the inbred lines for number of underground attachments of Striga seedlings to maize roots. However, differences in number of emerged Striga plants were significant (P < 0.01). Damage scores at 10 WAP and reductions in height and biomass at 12 WAP varied significantly (P < 0.01) among the maize lines tested. Damage score was significantly related to the severity of height and biomass reduction by Striga (r = 0.70  0.73). Differences in response of the lines to Striga manifested fully after silking. Thus, resistance was expressed at adult plant stage. Damage scores and number of emerged Striga plants were lower (P < 0.05) for TZMi 102, TZMi 302 and TZMi 306 than the susceptible check. These lines demonstrated potential as sources of resistance to Striga. Genetic variation for resistance to S. hermonthica is therefore present among the mid-altitude inbreds tested.
23790312|Durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum Desf.) is commonly grown in Mediterranean conditions, where temperature stress during grain filling can limit productivity. This research was performed to evaluate the effect of temperature during grain filling on dry matter and nitrogen dynamics in two Italian durum wheat varieties, Appio and Creso, grown with different nitrogen availabilities. The experiment compared two different temperature regimens, one within the normal range occurring during grain filling in Central Italy, the other within the normal range occurring in the southern regions of Italy (20/15 C and 28/23 C day/night, respectively). Plants were grown in pots outdoor until anthesis and afterward were placed in growth chambers. Results showed that nitrogen fertilization and post-anthesis temperature affected growth, accumulation and partitioning of dry matter and N in durum wheat which, in turn, modified grain yield and N content. Grain yield was better expressed at 20/15 C, while grain protein concentration was favoured under the 28/23 C temperature regime. Higher temperature promoted remobilization of dry matter and restrained current photosynthesis, but reduced grain yield, indicating that the loss of photosynthesis could not compensate for the gain from increased remobilization. Grain N content, on the contrary, was promoted under the higher temperature regime, as high temperature reduced N remobilization but did not inhibit root water and nitrogen uptake, given that no water shortage occur.
90002994|Different methods for the soil water content measurement (neutron probe, capacitance sensors, etc.) can provide actual data for the state of soil moisture (Kordk and Lichner, 1996). Based on this data different levels of sufficient water can be described (field capacity, availability, and wilting point). In order to compare data of various soil moisture measurement instruments it is mandatory to evaluate the accuracy of each method. In practice neutron probe is applied as the most accurate instrument, however due to its radiation work safety rules question the long-term applicability of such instruments. This article reports the comparison of three methods: neutron probe, capacity method and a so-called I-sensor. Since soil moisture measurement methods differ on the Hungarian and Slovakian side of the Danube, data comparison can lead to disagreements on soil moisture level. For the above-mentioned reason introduction of a new measurement method could be justified.
23787566|Aiming at maximization of selection response, methodology for determining the optimum number of crosses and progeny per cross in the breeding of self-fertilizing crops has been developed by adding the individual responses from the two steps of selection: selection between crosses and selection within crosses. Optimum numbers of crosses and maximum selection responses are determined by testing capacity, number of selected crosses, number of lines selected from each selected cross, and heritability. In the special case 'selection of the best line out of the best cross', (1) the maximum selection response increases with increasing testing capacity, (2) the maximum selection response increases with increasing heritability, (3) the optimum number of crosses increases with increasing testing capacity, (4) the optimum number of crosses is largest for intermediate heritabilities, lowest for large heritabilities, and intermediate for low heritabilities, (5) the graphs of maximum selection response plotted against testing capacity show that one obtains only insignificant increases of the maximum selection response for larger testing capacities, (6) for increasing heritabilities, the optimum number of crosses exhibits relatively flat maxima; these maxima are located at intermediate or sub-intermediate heritabilities; for small testing capacities ( 2000) the optimum numbers of crosses are similar for large and low heritabilities while for intermediate heritabilities one obtains larger values.
23783007|Several important parameters for comparing the tissue rates of photosynthesis and respiration in ten different hybrid and inbred cultivars of maize (Zea mays L.) were readily obtained using the oxygen electrode and small pieces of leaf tissue. Two of the cultivars showed significant differences in their dark respiration rates but no significant differences were found between all cultivars for maximum net photosynthetic rates, light compensation points, Si values (initial slope on the net photosynthetic rate vs light intensity curve) or Is values (theoretical saturating light intensity when light is the only limiting factor for photosynthesis). The same parameters for sections of senescing leaf tips of one cultivar differed significantly from those of healthy green tissue, indicating that the technique can detect at least gross differences in photosynthetic performance.
90003208|
               
90002925|Nitrogen use efficiency of winter wheat grain, as valuable indicator for rational N fertilization supply, was investigated in a field experiment in middle continental Croatia under four mineral N fertilization treatments (0, 100, 200 and 300 kg N ha
90002806|In Bekes County in Hungary we conducted a questionnaire study complemented with interviews about the private plant producer farms willingness to cooperate and we examined what factors affect cooperation. The hypothesis of the statistic research was that the producers willingness to cooperate is in a tight correlation but in inverse ratio to farm size and technological endowment. The research proved that the willingness to cooperate, compared to the factors examined, is in negative relation to farm size and positive relation to assets deficiency. The statistic researches have not established significant correlation between the examined factors and the willingness to cooperate, they confirmed it in its tendencies. The research has vindicated the blurring effects of psychological motives on economic rationality. Our research further established that lease provider relations are the dominant relation between producers, and in the future the dominance of this quasi cooperative alternative will remain.
90003404|The stress effect of insufficient phosphorus nutrition on spring barley parameters was determined over a three-year trial in a small plots situated 11 kilometers far from town Nitra on haplic luvisol with low supply of N
23780404|As sprouting damage is a cereal technology problem arising from grain germination, germination processes are expounded. Emphasis is placed on early metabolic events whereby the germinability of grin may be regulated, restricted or blocked, including a discussion of some mechanisms of dormancy as applicable to cereals. This discussion involves the possible roles of graincoat, polyphenol oxidase and oligoflavans, hypooxia and pentose phosphate pathway, gibberellins and cytokinins, activation of preformed enzymes, translation from pre-formed m RNA and transcription of genes. This exposition indicates strongly the importance of events during grain development. Development patterns of some hormones, enzyme activities (including alpha amylase), harvest ripeness, embryo maturity and dormancy, flavanols and phlobaphenes, and growth will be described. Effects of different ripening temperatures on the relativity of these several development patterns are demonstrated.
90002811|The following researches were carried out at Ltkp Research Centre of University of Debrecen between 2004 and 2006. The researches covered disease resistivity, yield and yield stability of wheat varieties. Different varieties show very dissimilar disease resistivity among the three examined cropyears. We had the chance to examine both resistant and susceptible varieties. Susceptible varieties got diseases even in favourable cropyears. The examined winter wheat varieties were more susceptible to helminthosporium (21,8%) and leaf rust (16,4%). We experienced the highest level of resistance in the case of GK Kalsz among the 12 examined varieties. The disease of fusarium was basically determined by the cropyear. The two ripening groups of winter wheat showed the following average yield considering the three years: 7065 kg ha
23781551|By principal component analysis of 7 quality characters - flour yield %, wet and dry gluten %, flattening /softness/ of gluten, water absorption, valorigraphic value and protein content - of 45 winter wheat genotypes /varieties and lines/ were examined. The connected characters were grouped unambiguously and the varieties grouped according to their relationships.
90003435|Moisture availability is a major stressor in relation with yield quality and quantity performance of winter wheat. In a 12 years experimental series of winter wheat agronomic trials run at the Szent Istvn Universitys Nagygombos experimental site effect of water availability has been evaluated. Various crop years have had different impact on crop yield quantity. Yield figures were in positive correlation with annual precipitation in general. Water availability had diverse influence on quality manifestation. High precipitation has often resulted in poorer quality, especially gluten and Hagberg values have been affected by that. Drought stress reducing the amount of yield has induced quality improvement in a few cases.
23783643|Elymus caninus (L.) L, 2n=4=28, SSHH was crossed with Triticum aestivum (L.) Thell, 2n=6=AABBDD. The seed set was ca 1%. The surviving hybrids had a low seedset when backcrossed to wheat. The chromosome pairing in the F1 hybrid was very low with 0.06-0.14 chiasmata/cell. Also the BC1 had low pairing with 29.83 chiasmata/cell, 11.83 rings and 5.58 rod bivalents.
23779171|The alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) and acid phosphatase (ACPH) zymogram phenotypes of six Imperial rye to Chinese Spring wheat disomic and ditelosomic chromosome addition lines and a Chinese Spring-Imperial translocation line were determined. Imperial Adh-R1 was located in the short arm of chromosome CR and an ACPH structural gene in the short arm of chromosome DR. The findings reported support the proposal that CRS is homoeologous to 4A, 4BL, and 4DS of Chinese Spring and that a portion of DRS is homoeologous to a segment in each of the arms 4A, 4BS, and 4DL.
23790000|This study was designed to compare realized heritability estimates for several traits of a selection index applied in rain fed bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and hexaploid triticale (x Triticosecale Wittmack) recurrent selection programs. The experimental material consisted in C 4 C 5 triticale and C 7 C 8 bread wheat S 0 progenies selected disruptively and evaluated as S 1 derived families. The selection differential (SD) and the response to selection (RS) were estimated from the S 0 progenies and the S 1 derived families, respectively, as the differences (in percent) between high and low (=100) selection index group mean values. In bread wheat, significant differences between groups of S 1 derived families were observed in the 7 th cycle for all the studied traits; while only significant differences for harvest index were observed in the 8 th cycle. Taking into account only the statistically significant differences between high and low selection index group mean values, the realized heritability estimates for grain yield, biomass yield and grain number were lower (7.0% to 11.2%) than those obtained for 1000-grain weight and harvest index (12.3% to 20.5%). The narrow germplasm base in triticale generated insignificant response to selection results.
23787076|A low starch viscosity mutant of rice (Oryza sativa L.), labeled as lsv-1, was induced by gamma irradiation. The starch-related quality of the mutant and its parent variety W8-1 were characterized. The apparent amylose content (AAC), gel consistency (GC), and alkali spreading value (ASV) of lsv-1 were similar to W8-1. However, the major starch viscosity parameters of lsv-1 starch, i.e. peak paste viscosity (PKV), cool paste viscosity (CPV), breakdown viscosity (BDV), and setback viscosity (SBV) were significantly lower than that of W8-1. Furthermore, lsv-1 had a shorter peak paste time (PKT) and higher pasting temperature (PT), compared to the parent variety. The feature of the pasted rice flour and morphology of starch granules in the endosperm of lsv-1 were also different from the parent variety.
23778567|The 35 genetic stocks of wheat from fifteen geographical regions with varying pedigrees could be grouped into five clusters. Plant height, grain number per main ear head and growth habit contributed maximum for divergence. The clustring pattern of the genetic stocks did not specifically follow the geographical distribution. The clustering pattern in this crop is also influenced to a considerable extent by their parentage. However, complete parallelism could not be established between pedigrees of genotypes and their grouping pattern. It appears that directional selection forces operating during segregating generations are responsible for generating the genetical divergence among different genotypes.
23786223|We compared two different culture media for high frequency callus induction and plant regeneration from cultured immature embryos (excised scutella) of 14 sorghum genotypes. Embryogenic calli were induced in 10-15 days after the embryos were plated on LS medium with 0.25 mg l1 zeatin and 0.5 mg l1 2,4-D. For induction of embryogenic callus, this media was better than the other with 2,4-D alone. Regeneration was achieved by transferring embryonic calli to MS medium containing 2 mg l1 NAA, 0.5 mg l1 BAP and 0.1 mg l1 GA3. Both callusing and regenerating ability varied (10-100%) among the genotypes. Popular seed parents 296 B and BTx 623 showed 100% callus induction and regeneration. The anatomical studies on embryogenic calli derived from scutellum revealed 4-6 pro-embryos from each scutellum, with secondary embryos initiating around the primary ones after a month under culture. The above protocols are appropriate for use of immature embryos to genetically transform wide range of sorghum genotypes.
23777636|The plant morphology characters of pollen sterile form of 11 common wheats /A-lines/ were compared with their normal fertile counterparts B-lines. The investigations were conducted during a two year period. The seedlings from seeds produced on A-lines showed poorer growth and development than those from the corresponding B-lines. Height of adult pollen-sterile plants was lower, but they had more tillers, longer leaf and spikes, and more spikelets per spike than their fertile counterparts. Pollen sterile plants had longer but shrivelled grains. The 1000 kernels weight was lower, but protein content in grain was higher. For all the characters mentioned, specific interactions between timopheevi cytoplasm and common wheat nuclei were detected.
23780379|C-banding has been used to study the meiotic pairing in PMCs of one 6x-Triticale x Triticum aestivum L. hybrid. Nine pairs of wheat chromosomes showed bands. Five of the nine bivalents showed a repeatible characteristic heteropycnotic pattern of bands.
90002771|This research investigated efficiency of different amounts of earthworm humus lumbripost (1-8 t ha
23789644|In the experimental years of 2004-2005, the favourable results were due to rainy seasons. There were significant differences between the productivity of maize hybrids. N40, P25, K30 kg ha1 treatments caused the highest increase of yield (3-5 t ha1) compared to the control ones (parcels without fertilization). The reactions of hybrids to further fertilizer doses were different. The agro-ecological optimum of fertilization was N120, P75, K90 kg ha1 for most hybrids. There was important difference between the capacity of moisture loss of hybrids; it changed by 0.2-0.6% day1. The moisture loss of hybrids changed depending on the fertilizer treatment; usually it was more favourable in the optimal fertilizer dose (N120+PK). In the case of tested hybrids we measured the highest LAI and photosynthetic activity at the optimal treatment, N 120+PK in respect of efficiency and environmental protection, and the yield was the highest also at this treatment. There are significant differences between LAI, photosynthetic activity and the yield of hybrids, and these values could change depending on the treatment of fertilization.
23792379|The application of spectroradiometric index such as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) to assess green biomass or nitrogen (N) content has focused on the plant canopy in precision agriculture or breeding programs. However, little is known about the usefulness of these techniques in isolated plants. The few reports available propose the use of a spectroradiometer in combination with special adaptors that improve signal acquisition from plants, but this makes measurements relatively slow and unsuitable. Here we studied the direct use (i.e. without adaptors) of a commercial cost-effective spectroradiometer, GreenSeeker TM (NTech Industries Ins., Ukiah, California, USA) provided with an active sensor (i.e. equipped with its own source of radiation) for measuring NDVI in four genotypes of durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var. durum) grown in pots under a range of water and N regimes. Strong correlations were observed between NDVI measurements and dry aboveground biomass (AB), total green area (TGA), green area without spikes (GA) and aboveground N content (AN). To prove the predictive ability of NDVI measured under potted conditions, linear regression models for each growth trait and for plant N content were built with the data of two genotypes. The models accurately predicted growth traits and N content, confirming the direct relationship between total plant biomass and spectroradiometric readings.
23792343|A 6 x 6 diallel cross among three sensitive (18180-II, 18205-I, 18205-I and DN-18) and three tolerant (18194-II, DN-4, and LU-26S) wheat genotypes was analyzed. Thirty-six genotypes were sown in a triplicates completely randomized design in hydroponics culture. Data for root length was recorded in three salinity levels, i.e. control, 10 and 15 dSm 1 . Combining ability effects controller tolerance in the two salinity levels (10 and 15 dSm 1 ). The genotypes 18194-II and LU-26S exhibited highest general combining abilities under10 and 15 dSm 1 . The cross combinations with highest specific combining ability for root lenght were 18194-II x DN-4, 18180-II x 18205-I and LU26S x DN-18 under salinity levels. In reciprocals the crosses DN-18 x DN-4 and DN-4 x 18205-I appeared to be superior to the others under high salinity levels. DN-4 x LU26S produced significantly longer roots than its better parent and thus showed highest heterobeltiosis in high salinity level.
23779087|The germination of immature seeds of three wheat varieties at 12C was studied from 2-48 days after pollination after 1-12 weeks of drying. The thousand-grain-weight of the immature seeds showed considerable variation for the first 2-14 days after pollination, but later this variation disappeared. The moisture content became constant from the third week onwards. After a week of drying the 6 day old immature seeds germinated, but an acceptable germination rate was only obtained for 18 day old seeds. As the length of the drying period increased the germination gradually improved: the immature seeds germinated more quickly and more vigorously. After two or three weeks of drying even 2 day old embryos were capable of germinating, and after 6, 8 or 10 weeks of drying the rate of germination for 4-6 day old embryos was over 90 %. The germination percentage proved to be characteristic of the variety.
23790378|Abiotic stresses like salinity and abnormally cold environments cause significant yield losses in many crops including wheat. Therefore, concerted efforts are being made by breeders to develop new varieties with salt and cold tolerance to ensure stable yields over varied environments. This study was undertaken to screen six hundred and seventy-seven accessions of international wheat genetic resources to identify lines with high level of tolerance to salinity and cold environments. Based on the results of two years study in different agroecological locations, 51 accessions were classified as salt tolerant and 115 accessions were classified as cold tolerant. Of these, 35 accessions had good agronomic characteristics. Also, there were 39 genotypes with combined tolerance to cold as well as salinity. Thus, there were good lines which can be used directly or as parents for breeding wheat varieties for wide adaptation and high yield. Further analysis of the data showed that early genotypes had good cold tolerance but a poor salt tolerance. It was also observed that small number of both test spikelet and spikelet, short spike length and good seed-plump were positively associated with cold tolerance. Therefore, maturity and spike traits should be taken into considered when selecting wheat lines for wide adaptation breeding.
23785367|The focus of this presentation is on the role of deoxynivalenol in pathogenesis. Single-kernel analysis is the model system developed for the study of this disease. In natural infection, DON is found in the spikelets other than those showing symptoms and is most likely due to spread of the fungus. In wheat and barley heads inoculated with DON, no translocation of DON out of the spikelets was noted after 12, 24, and 48 hours. Macroconidia of F. graminearum isolates did not contain DON when grown on mung bean agar although these same isolates when inoculated into spikelets of wheat produced the toxin. In inoculation of single kernels of wheat, DON as well as 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol are produced as soon as 48 hours after inoculation. Trichodiene mutants that do not produce DON did not do so when inoculated into single spikelets on wheat heads although they did show mild symptoms of infection. The wild type (DON producer) caused mores severe symptoms of infection than the mutant.
90003301|Species in fungi can be defined by reference to species concepts based on morphology, ecology, biology and phylogenetics.
90002742|Effect of pesticides and plant nutrition on wheat crop, as well as their interaction was studied in a small plot split-plot designed field trial run on eutric cambisol type soil at the experimental site of Pannonia University, Keszthely, Hungary. The results obtained suggest, that treatments applied  both the increasing rate of fertilizers and the increasing intensity of pesticide application  had significant effect on the grain yield of wheat. In case of fertilizer application each N rate resulted in a further significant yield increase in the average of pesticide applications. In accordance with the increment of the level of plant nutrition and plant protection applications a decreasing magnitude of yield increase was observed. Plant nutrition applications had a more definite effect on yield figures in comparison with that of plant protection treatments. The paper summarizes plant and soil interrelations regarding plant protection and nutrition impacts on wheat performance.
90003124|The aim of our research is to observe and analyse how the preferred saving forms changed since the transformation and what kind of changes have been there in the amount of the savings. The amount of savings is largely influenced by the aggressive marketing activities of the banks and by governmental regulations like the interest tax since September 2006. We started our research with the concept of savings that have been analysed by many well-known economists during the last decades. In the 80s the net financial savings of the households were practically zero and at the end of the 80s it became negative. Nowadays 14 percent of the households have their savings in short term debits and this is still the most popular form in Hungary. The interest towards other instruments of investments shares, shares based investment funds, other funds and bonds  is still lower and the rate of the ones using pension funds is 8 percent.
23783744|An experiment was conducted to examine the feasibility of inducing RFLPs by sodium azide treatment of barley. Among 14,000 DNA restriction fragments screened for length variation only two unequivocal mutations were observed. This result is discussed in relation to mutation frequency and the potential for producing 'customised' RFLPs associated with genes controlling agronomic traits.
90003262|The objective of the study was to map the mycotoxin producing
23787090|Macrophomina phaseolina is a poliphagus fungus, which is able to infect numerous host-plants (maize, sunflower, pepper,) and causes large yield losses. Our in vitro experiments demonstrate, how different wavelength light irradiation influences the growth of mycelium and the formation of microsclerotium. The habit of cultures treated by blue light and UV radiation changed, the formed microslerotia had a convenient sharpness for the data evaluation by CCD camera. The mycelium was degraded as a result of UV radiation.
90002981|Influence of
90002931|A stand-scale climate change experiment with passive nighttime warming and rain exclusion treatments was conducted in in the semiarid Pannonian sand forest steppe of the Kiskunsg, as part of the European VULCAN Project. Response of soil respiration was measured monthly in the vegetation periods between 2003 and 2007. Besides the very low soil carbon efflux rates (0.09  1.60 mol CO
23777665|Monosomic and disomic substitution of Imperial rye chromosome C for Chinese Spring wheat chromosome 4A were obtained. The restoration of vegetative vigour and partial fertility in the substitution lines is evidence of homoeology of rye C for wheat 4A. Hence rye chromosome C (chromosome IV after Riley) can be redesignated as 4R.
23783106|Rhizoctonia solani Khn was observed in may 1989 associating with bare patch symptom in oat field. Most of the seedlings were killed in the patches and a thin whitish mycelium was developed on the grains and on the plants. The mycelium was identified as R. solani by its habits and this is the first record on its occurrence on oat in Hungary.
23777669|Results on selection for quality in bread wheat in early generations by means of Pelshenke and Zeleny tests suggest a great genetic variability. In the experimental material studied in which selection for desirable agronomic traits had been performed, genetic variability for quality still remains in F3 and F4 families of the same cross. In F4 and F5, after 1 year of selection, segregation for quality was still observed in the next generation. In consequence of the high heritability of Pelshenke test and sedimentation value, a rapid fixation of genes for quality in segregating generations is expected; our results, however, show that not less than two selection cycles seem necessary to fix them.
23786979|The T1BL.1RS translocation is reported to enhance grain yield, biomass, kernel weight and spike fertility in bread wheat. These effects of the translocation were evaluated, however, on a limited number of genotypes and the physiological effects of the translocation were barely studied. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of T1BL.1RS on agronomical traits and transpiration efficiency (TE) in several bread and durum wheat cultivars grown under drought conditions. TE was evaluated from carbon isotope discrimination measurements. Both bread and durum T1BL.1RS lines had longer spikes. Bread wheat T1BL.1RS lines flowered later, had lower harvest index, and grain weight. Durum wheat T1BL.1RS lines had lower number of spikes than their 1B counterparts. However, the T1BL.1RS translocation did not have any effect on grain yield. There was no effect of the T1BL.1RS translocation on grain carbon isotope discrimination, indicating that T1BL.1RS and 1B lines did not differ for TE.
23782768|Colchicine treatment of Triticum umbellulatum resulted in the production of autotetraploids. The meiosis of the autotetraploids showed some diploidization probably due to a reduction of chiasmata in the short arms of the four heterobrachial chromosomes.
23788069|In every time, the genetic basis of maize production is represented by the varieties and hybrids grown on the greatest area. It is interesting to note that, compared with the number of races and varieties available, there has always been only a small number of varieties that dominated the given maize production era. Chronologically, the Old Hungarian Yellow Flint group of varieties was popular from 16101914, American dent varieties (Iowa Goldmine, Queen of the Prairie, etc.) from 19001920, Bnkti (Late) Dent from 19101935 and the varieties developed by Fleischmann from 19351960. Hybrid maize production was based on Mindszentpusztai Yellow Dent up till 1983 and on Iodent from 1983 onwards. Among the varieties previously popular for human consumption (porridge) in Eastern Central Europe, varieties related to Cinquantino and Pignoletto dominated variety use for a long period, and varieties in the Lapusnyaki group for a shorter time. The group of popular varieties, which were originally improved varieties, and others related to them, make up the "useful" part, or "heart core" of the genetic variability of maize in Eastern Central Europe. Due to the special methods employed for variety development and variety maintenance in this region, it is not difficult to identify variants of these previously popular varieties on the basis of morphological traits. These are of potential value. In many cases variety collections also include varieties developed by breeders or farmers, which differ genetically and morphologically from the popular varieties, but only increase the number of items in the collection. Experience shows that the adapted varieties that remained popular for a long period were used in maize breeding as sources of heterosis, while these latter were used as simple gene sources. The pure line method has been used widely and still holds the promise of success. As yet there does not appear to be any fundamentally new method that could replace it to make breeding more efficient. In each era, creative breeders developed competitive new varieties by exploiting the useful genetic variability available, so from the evolutionary point of view, new varieties should be regarded as foundation populations. Banning or restricting the re-utilisation of these populations could block the human regulation of evolution and limit increases in food production. The key question in maize breeding is always the active possession, practical preservation and systematic improvement of the type of biodiversity that is useful from the economic point of view in breeding.
90002891|Soil and vegetation are good indicators of environmental changes. The examined area is semi-arid, extreme dry where open grassland is the typical vegetation. Soils are dry and sandy with vegetation types showing xerotherm characteristics and dominated by endemic species. Urbanization caused growth of nitrate content in the degraded, shallow, sandy soils, while the physiognomy of the vegetation remained the same with some changes in the species composition: the amount of weeds and species resistant to disturbance has increased and the
23792321|In rain-fed agricultural regions, limited rainfall and frequent unpredictable droughts have resulted in low and variable wheat yields. Balanced water use between root water-uptake and remaining soil moisture is a key factor for drought adaptation. Thirteen recombinant inbred lines selected from a backcross population of synthetic-derived bread wheat were examined for the association among root water-uptake ability, grain yield and root elongation under limited water conditions using pot and field experiments. The effect of wax coating on grain formation under soil desiccation was also studied in two selected genotypes. There were significant variations in both root water-uptake ability estimated in pot experiments and grain yield obtained in field experiments among wheat genotypes. Infrared thermography indicated that canopy temperature was related to the leaf transpiration due to root water-uptake. A significant negative correlation was found between root water-uptake ability and grain weight, suggesting that lower root water-uptake ability was associated with higher grain weight. Genotype SYN-10 had the lowest water-uptake ability and the highest grain weight, indicating a type of 'water-saving wheat'. Wax coating significantly reduced root water-uptake in wheat genotypes SYN-8 and SYN-10. Infrared thermography showed an increased leaf temperature due to the transpiration-suppression effect of the wax coating. Reductions in grain yield due to soil desiccation were found in SYN-8, but not in SYN-10. The higher grain yield of SYN-10 was attributed to more grains under soil desiccation. Grain yield of SYN-10 was decreased by the wax coating under soil desiccation. Dehydration tolerance of SYN-10 might be associated with the transpiration process of the leaves.
23781473|Most cultivated oats (Avena sativa L. and A. byzantina L.) develop two florets per spikelet, but occasionally a genotype will develop three florets per spikelet. Several lines that develop tertiary seeds were used to study the inheritance of this trait. Three matings were studied in 1979, and the Bc0, Bc1, and Bc2 of two matings were examined in 1980. The inheritance of tertiary seed development was due to multiple alleles at two loci. Only two classes of segregates could be delineated in each mating, which indicates that interallelic interaction (epistasis) occurred among the loci involved in the inheritance of tertiary seed development. The environment also affected the trait's expression.
90003033|The objectives of this research was to evaluate N-utilization influenced by different factors, as plant species, (w.wheat or maize), previous crop, moreover type and rate of fertilizer, in a longterm field experiment. Averaged over the plants and treatments, the effectivity of FYM was 85% as compared to equivalent NPK fertilization. On the zero plots there was a relative high N-uptake (33-60kg.ha
23786977|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. em. Thell) is main source of calories for more than 1.5 milliard people in the world. During last 4 decades wheat production and productivity increased almost six times in the Indian subcontinent. Despite this, it is being felt that wheat yield has attained stagnation. In order to overcome this, introgression of winter wheat gene pool into the cultivated spring wheat has given encouraging results. However, little information is available on the combining ability of these two important but otherwise, distinct groups of wheat. The present study was, therefore, undertaken to determine the combining ability and gene action of yield and yield attributes in winter x spring wheat crosses. Twenty-four F1 progenies developed by 8 winter and 3 spring wheat lines using line x tester design were evaluated along with their parents, for yield and other components. The mean squares for all the characters studied showed highly significant differences. The mean squares due to female x male interactions were significant for all the characters studied except for days to maturity. Additive genetic effects were found to play a key role in the genetic control of days to heading and days to maturity. Maldova and Marisdoe among winter and NP 846 and NP 4 among spring wheat were good general combiners for most of the attributes studied. Cross Marisdoe/NP 809, Burgas-2/NP 846 Stepoa/NP 846 and TW 238/62/7/9/3/NP4 had significant specific combining ability effects for most of the yield attributes. The estimates of specific combining ability suggested that although general combining ability effects of most winter wheats are either average or poor, their combination with spring wheat parents possessing high GCA could give desirable genotypes.
23781559|The crossover value between the awn inhibitor gene Hd (hooded) and the centromere on the short arm of chromosome 4B was estimated to be 7.7  3.7%. Male transmission of 4BS telocentric in competition with complete 4B was 9.6%. Chromosome 4B carries the dominant gene Hd (hooded) which suppresses awn development causing the awns to be short and bent in the common wheat variety, Chinese Spring (Sears, 1944). It was subsequently shown that the short arm of 4B carries this gene (Sears, 1954). The present communication reports the results of telocentric mapping of the genetic distance between the centromere of chromosome 4B and the gene Hd using the 4BS telocentric chromosome. The substitution line, Hope-4B (hd hd: awned) was crossed to Chinese Spring ditelo-4BS, monotelo-4BL (Hd Hd: awnless). F1 plants with 2n=41+t (20II + 1 hetII) were selected cytologically and used as male parents in test-crosses to Hope-4B.
90002936|In our research work the effects of forecrop, nutrient supply and irrigation were examined on yield formation of winter wheat in a calciferous chernozem soil during 2004-07. Using pea as a forecrop at a low nutrient level led to a higher yield than in the case of maize as a forecrop. The highest yield was observed at the N
90002980|The high organic matter content of compost predicts a good metal sorption capacity. In spite of this fact necessary to investigate the quantity of heavy metal content as well as the sorption capacity of heavy metals in compost materials.
90003456|The Department of Soil Management of Szent Istvn University, Gdll has been involved in summer stubble cultivation experiments since 2005. During the experimental series, dry and rainy weather conditions were observed as well.
90002708|The 40 soil samples of continental Croatia were analysed on chemical properties and heavy metal extracted by aqua regia, EDTA and HCl with aim to compare extraction methods and to determine impact of soil pH on heavy metals availability. The highest total content was determined for Fe, and the lowest for Cu and Ni regardless to soil pH. Soil pH have significant impact on available fraction of analysed micronutrients and significantly lower available fraction of Fe and Mn was determined in calcareous soils. The soil properties as humus content and pH could be sufficient for plant available micronutrients prediction using regression formulas, but such models are more appropriate for acid soils comparing to calacreous, for Fe and Mn comparing to Zn, Cu and Ni and for EDTA extracted comparing to HCl extracted fraction of micronutrients.
23781407|It is argued that the presence of the Ne1s gene for hybrid necrosis in the near-isogenic line Michigan Amber/8*Chancellor is not inconsistent with the view that Michigan Amber was the donor of the Pm-? gene to this line. The Ne1s gene could have been derived from the backcross parent, Chancellor.
23787144|Application of auxin causes cells of the wheat embryo to undergo dedifferentiation and form callus tissue. The synthesis of germin isoforms (G, G' and G) has been selectively associated with different phases of embryonic development and callus formation. G and G' germin isoforms are found to be associated with germination. G is an embryogenesis related germin isoform. It is clearly important to distinguish whether callus induction caused a precocious initiation of embryonic maturation-specific pseudogermin synthesis, or whether it effected a switch in the pattern of protein synthesis, eliciting accumulation of the normally germination-related germin proteins. To distinguish between these alternatives, it is necessary to identify the germin protein isoforms accumulated during callus formation. Following the electrophoretic separation of callus protein extracts, the position of germin isomers were detected by Western-blotting. The immunoreactive polypeptides accumulating in callus tissue were determined to be exclusively germin, rather than G.
90003148|Drought stress tolerance is an important trait in horticultural practice and breeding. We found that an
90003468|Generally the agrarian habitats are extremely poor in floristical elements with high natural value. The lack of oxygen kills most of the cultivated plants in the flooded depressions and in its muddy fringes. This hypoxic stress makes bare soil surfaces free from competition which are favorable for aquatic and amphibian plant-communities. During our coenological and floristical investigations of Hungarian Bodrogkz (Szirmai et al. 2008) micro region (NE Plain), there are seven protected plant species have been found from the 69 natural species of the flora of flooded depressions. We have explored four associations which were new for the territory of Hungary. The
23789310|A set of ten durum wheat genotypes was grown in experiments conducted under four contrasting Mediterranean conditions during three years to assess the effect of latitude and water regime on grain growth and grain yield formation. The relationship between grain weight and accumulated growing degree-days (GDD) from anthesis was described by a logistic equation and final grain weight (W) and maximum rate (R) and duration (D) of grain filling were calculated from the fitted curves. Thousand kernel weight (TKW) was positively related to grain yield at both latitudes and water regimes, although the contribution of the number of grains per m2 to final yield was only significant in the south, where environmental constraints likely limited the achievement of a large grain set. Differences in final grain weight between latitudes could be mostly explained by differences in the grain filling rate, while changes on W between water regimes were due to altered grain filling durations. Under northern conditions grain yield was positively associated to grain filling duration but negatively related to the maximum rate of grain filling, while in the south the coefficients of the grain filling curves had little or no effect on final yield. Reductions in grain yield under rainfed conditions were due to the fall in the number of grains per m2 since TKW was not significantly affected by drought.
23786965|Drought stress is one of the most important threatening factors for the production of crop plants in the arid and semi-arid regions of the world. The related species of wheat are valuable genetic material for different traits including resistance/tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. To locate the genes controlling drought tolerance disomic addition lines of Imperial rye (donor) in the genetic background of Chinese Spring (recipient) were tested in a completely randomized design in controlled condition, and in a randomized complete block design in the field condition each with three replications. The materials were tested under two different water regimes (irrigated and rainfed) in the Agricultural Research Station of College of Agriculture, Razi University, Kermanshah, Iran. The potential yield (Yp), stress yield (Ys), Promptness Index in stress (PIS) and non-stress (PINS) condition, Germination Stress Index (GSI), Stress Tolerance Index (STI), Coleoptile Length (COL), Primary Root Length (PRL), and Primary Root No. (PRN) were recorded. The results of analysis of variance exhibited highly significant differences among the lines for all the traits, except PRN indicating the presence of genetic variation and possible chromosomal localization of the genes controlling the traits investigated. Mean comparison of different traits revealed that most of the genes controlling yield and drought tolerance related traits are located on chromosomes 7R, 3R, and 5R. Cluster analysis of addition lines for GSI also placed the lines carrying these chromosomes in a group with higher GSI. Correlation analysis indicated strong association between STI with GSI, COL, and PRL. Therefore these criteria may be screened for indirect selection of drought tolerance in the initial stages of the crop growth.
90002670|Slaughterhouse waste in Europe is most commonly processed in rendering houses. Appearance of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, has resulted in prohibition of using meat bone meal in animal nutrition as a by-product of rendering. It is a fact that slaughterhouse waste is highly valuable raw material, as well as alkaline hydrolysis as a method for the remediation of slaughterhouse waste or meat bone meal. In the process of alkaline hydrolysis, slaughterhouse waste is mixed with alkali NaOH/KOH and boiled for 3-6 hours at temperature of 150C and pressure of 4 bars. The resulting chemical compound is a neutral or partially alkaline solution of organic substances suitable for anaerobic microbiological decomposition, or a valuable raw material for anaerobic digestion and very good fertilizer.
90003419|A wheat/barley translocation line was previously developed in Martonvsr from the Mv9kr1  Igri hybrid and was identified as a 5HS.7D translocation using fluorescence
90003408|Effects of crop-rotation, fertilization and irrigation on the yield of maize has been studied in different cropyears characterized by different water supply (2007 year=dry; 2008 year=optimum) on chernozem soil. Our scientific results proved that in water stress cropyear (2007) the maximum yields of maize were 4316 kg ha
23786101|Two broadly cultivated bread wheat cultivars ("Acheloos" and "Vergina") and their F1 hybrid were used to study the effect of spike cold pretreatment and the incubation temperature on bread wheat anther culture. For this, half of the spikes carrying anthers at the early uninuclate stage were pretreated at 4C for 7 days. Subsequently, the anthers with or without cold pretreatment were cultured on W14 induction medium and half of the Petri dishes were incubated at 28C, while the other half were kept at 32C. The statistical analysis performed, revealed a strong genotype effect on androgenic capacity. With the exception of green plant production, no significant temperature effect was noticed in the three tested genotypes, whereas genotype X treatment interaction was significant only in regeneration rate and green plant production. With respect to green plant production cv "Acheloos", although responded well to all treatments, performed better after cold pretreatment. In contrast the F1 hybrid responded better when it was incubated at 32C without cold pretreatment. It should be mentioned that no DH plants were obtained from cultivar "Vergina" confirming its poor androgenic capacity,. Finally, the highest number of DH plants was produced by the F1. This could be attributed to heterosis. It was concluded that cold pretreatment is not always needed and the production of haploid plants is more genotype dependent than the temperature under which the anthers are cultured.
23786877|The weather data associated with the 1993 FHB epidemic indicate that severe FHB infection is possible with prolonged periods of temperatures below 20 C, if precipitation is abundant. The temperatures associated with the epidemic were considerably lower than the optimums for spore production and infection as described in the literature. The temperatures were closest to those described as optimum for ascospore dispersal. Moisture requirements for sporulation and infection have not been well defined in the literature, but the data associated with the 1993 epidemic indicates that consecutive daily periods (12-15 hours) of relative humidities above 85% are sufficient for infection, and continuous moisture or dews for 48-72 hours are not required.
23781390|A new method to screen plants for high photo synthetic efficiency using "Warburg effect" has been described which is faster and less cumbersome than methods reported before. The significance of the preliminary screening results in rice is discussed in an evolutionary context.
23789901|An undescribed symptom caused by Fusarium graminearum was detected in wheat fields showing masses of orange sporodochia on the node and neighbouring stem tissue. Normally the head above infected nodes dies and only chaff is harvested. This is the first formal description of this type of stem infections caused by F. graminearum. The economic importance of these disease symptoms need further evaluation.
23787223|Image analysis of wheat grains was carried out using wheat grains in crease down position. A recurrent parent and three selections derived from it after equivalent of three backcrosses were used. The grains of all four resembled each other when inspected visually. Grain images were grabbed using a scanner in transparency mode and analysis was done using the Comprehensive Image Processing Software (CIPS) developed in house. Significant differences in grain dimensions and shapes were detected among the four samples. Using geometric and shape related parameters Euclidean distances were calculated between each of the samples used. Out of the six possible combinations four were distinguishable on the basis of Euclidean distances. The results showed the potential for use of Image Analysis in distinguishing closely related wheat grain samples.
23781529|Triticum aestivum L. (2n=6x=42, AABBDD) varieties Chinese Spring, Fielder, Fremont, Glennson 81, Nacozari 75 and Pavon 76 were pollinated with several Agropyron and Elymus species. Twenty-three of these species were successfully hybridized with wheat. Hybrids were identified on the basis of the somatic chromosome count in root-tips. For those combinations where the alien species were hexaploids (2n=6x=42) like wheat, the single dosage of wheat satellited chromosomes (1B,6B,5D) were the identifying markers. The spikes produced on the hybrid plants were phenotypically different from the wheat variety of that particular hybrid combination. Aneuploidy was observed in T. aestivum/A. repens-A. desertorum (C-3) hybrids where the chromosome numbers in hybrid plants ranged from 35 to 57 with a telocentric. All hybrids were somatically stable. Further studies on the utilization of these hybrids is briefly discussed.
23789799|The relationships between leaf senescence, carbon isotope discrimination and yield performance were examined in durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.), in the high plains of Setif, eastern Algeria. Ten CIMMYT high-yielding cultivars were grown during two cropping seasons characterized by low rainfall (217 and 162 mm, respectively), freezing temperatures at heading stage and terminal heat stress. Senescence was assessed using numerical image analysis (NIA). Carbon isotope discrimination was analyzed in flag leaves at anthesis and grain at maturity. Senescence was significantly negatively correlated to grain yield in season 1, but not in season 2. There was no relationship between  and grain yield in both seasons. The absence of association between  and grain yield is likely to be due to a strong contribution of pre-anthesis assimilates to yield together with a sink limitation of yield.
90003066|This paper presents a methodology for a development of agricultural production on family farms in the Vukovar-Srijem County that aims to synchronize the sustainable environment criterion with the criterion of economic competitiveness by introducing Multicriteria Decision Theory. Comparative sustainability is evaluated on two different farms. One of them is conventional and the other is ecological production system. With the results obtained it is able to conclude that an ecological production system is reconciled with stability, adaptability, equity and autonomy growth, while on the other hand ecological production system have less productivity than conventional production system.
90002964|A pot experiment was set up for examining the effect of sewage sludge loads on 4 soils and plants. The tested soils were acid and calcareous sandy soils as well as acid and calcareous loamy more heavy soils with different basic soil properties. Applied tannery sludge had high Cr content 5226 mg kg-1. The test plant was spring barley. The tannery sludge treatments heightened the soil Cr concentration in both pseudo total and mobilisable fractions. The investigated soil properties (pH, OM%) increased significantly on each soil as a result of sludge treatment. The increment of the soil Cr content did not have effect neither on the barley stem nor grain Cr concentration. The sludge application did not have any negative effect on the winter barley yield amount either.
23781339|The identity of the chromosome arm involved in a translocation between Agropyron intermedium (Host) Beauv. and Triticum aestivum L. em Thell. was confirmed by crossing the alien-transfer line (CI17766) with the Chinese Spring 4B ditelosomics. All or part of the short arm of the Agropyron chromosome, carrying one of the genes for resistance to wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV), is attached to the terminal portion of wheat chromosome 4BS. The 4BL chromosome arm of wheat is apparently unaffected by the transfer.
23781361|Hybrids between the South-American wild barley Hordeum chilense and the tetraploid wheats timopheevii, armeniacum, dicoccoides, georgicum, turanicum, polonicum and carthlicum have been produced. We are presenting in this paper meiotic analysis. Two amphiploids H. chilense - Triticum turgidum conv. polonicum and H. chilense - T. turgidum ssp. georgicum also have been produced.
23792338|A Serbian government introduced a labeling system for products which contained genetically modified organisms (GMO) with threshold of 0.1% for grain and 0.9% for food and feed. In order to detect the presence of GM maize in the Serbian market, a triplex PCR was applied to maize grains and processed maize samples. In total 145 samples, 125 samples of maize seed and 25 processed maize were analysed in tree years period. The number of positive samples varied from 12% in 2006 year, to 14.5% in 2008. The estimated amounts of GM maize using Real Time PCR in 17 samples ranged between 0.1% and 0.9%, for most of them 0.2% or 0.3%. In two maize seed samples GMO content was higher than >0.9%, in 2006. Obtained results showed that maize seed has been contaminated with GM seed but in most cases under labeling treshold. Monitoring for transgenic crop plants is necessary, especially in cases, like in Serbia, when the crop has not been approved for release into the environment.
90002701|Enhanced UV-B radiation and water stress may have direct and indirect effects on physiology of plants. In the present study we investigated the responses of sessile oak seedlings grown from seeds to supplementary UV-B radiation and water stress. Seedlings of sessile oak showed rapidly developing susceptibility to the enhanced UV-B radiation which appeared in lowering the chlorophyll content and potential photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm) and actual photochemical efficiency of PSII (F/Fm). UV-B radiation caused slight changes in leaf water relations. Water withdrawal from the plants resulted in very low leaf water content and water potential. When plants were simultaneously exposed to UV-B and water stress leaf water relations of seedlings were improved and increase in flavonoid accumulation was observed. However, values of Fv/Fm, F/Fm and RFD were the lowest in these plants as compared to control and those exposed to separately to enhanced UV-B or water withdrawal. Both UV-B radiation and water stress increased non-photochemical quenching with a parallel enhancement of zeaxanthin formation.
23785225|The objective of the study was to investigate the androgenous capacity and green plant regeneration ability of randomly selected heterozygous wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genotypes. Anthers of 160 F1 hybrids were grown in vitro on a modified Potato-2 inductive medium. Pollen calluses were obtained from 150 F1 hybrids, meaning 94% of the genotypes examined were shown to be responsive. The green plant regeneration ability was determined to be present in 109 F1 hybrids, which means that anthers of 68% of the genotypes tested produced green plants. On average, regarding the whole experiment material, 13.3 pollen calluses were obtained per 100 anthers isolated. The haploid or doubled haploid green plant regeneration rate, which ranged from 0 to 21.6%, was on average 2.3% for the whole material tested, or 3.4% for the genotypes which possessed green plant regeneration ability in general.
23782954|Under the conditions of short natural daylight(11-13hrs) and autumn sowing near Baku, a monosomic genetic analysis of photoperiodic reaction was carried out in F2 of Sharbati Senora variety which is practically insensitive to the daylight length. The length of time before earning was mearured in the parental forms, F1 and F2 hybrids monosomic plants of Diamant 1 (21 lines) and Saratovskaya 29 (4 lines: 2A, 2B, 2D and 4B) varieties comparatively sensitive to the daylight length with the almost insensitive Sharbati Sonora variety. In F1, there was an almost complete dominance of early earing over the late one. An almost digenic segregation ratio(early earing:late earing) was found in almost all F2 populations exept mono-2B and 2D where there were no late-earing hybrids. This allowed to confirm the location of Ppd1 and Ppd2 genes in chromosomes 2D and 2B respectively and to determine the genotypes of the varieties studied for two loci of photoperiodic reactions, i.e. Sharbati Sonora: Ppd1 Ppd1 Ppd2 Ppd2, Diamant 1 and Saratovskaya 29: ppd1 ppd1 ppd2 ppd2.
23783985|Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. UP. 2003) plants were raised in sand culture with complete nutrition in glasshouse conditions to study the effects of chromium (Cr). The element was superimposed at 0.05, 0.1, 0.25 and 0.5 mM on basal nutrient solution as sodium dichromate A.R. In response to 0.25 and 0.5 mM Cr, plant height, leaf number and tiller number decreased significantly. The effect of chromium on dry matter yield was very mild at early stages of growth but became pronounced later. Chromium depressed reproductive yield at all levels; maximum reduction was found at higher Cr concentrations and the quality of grains was also poor. Chromium uptake was maximum in roots followed by leaves and stem.
23786100|Immature zygotic embryos were isolated from field, seed originated plants of japonica rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Taipei 309) grown in greenhouse, surface sterilized and cultured on LS2.5 medium for callus induction. The induced calli were used for the initiation of liquid cultures in AA2 medium, which later allowed the establishment of cell suspension cultures. Plants from these cultures were regenerated on MSD4-NAA medium, rooted on N6 medium, and transferred to greenhouse. Immature zygotic embryos were isolated from these tissue-culture-derived plants and the cycle was repeated. Records of 87 different parameters were taken during three years, introduced in a database and analysed statistically. During the first cycle, 52% of the cultures were lost due to severe browning. During the second cycle, no browning was observed and the quality of the cultures improved noticeably facilitating the induction of somatic embryogenesis and plant regeneration. During the first cycle, 18.75% of the 48 established cell suspension cultures regenerated plants. One of them was exceptionally good compared with the other ones, regenerating 548 plants/ml culture. The average of the remaining ones was 33 plants/ml culture. During the second cycle, 65% of the 25 established cell suspension cultures regenerated plants. The best cell suspension culture in terms of plant regeneration produced 2975 plants/ml culture. The average of the remaining ones was 218 plants/ml culture. The total time of the cycle was reduced by 68 days, and it was possible to maintain highly embryogenic cell suspension cultures at a volume ratio PCV (packed cell volume):medium of 1:1000. The results of the data analysis provide valuable information for future experimental design ambitioning the continuous supply of high quality embryogenic calli and cell suspension cultures.
23777422|1. There are very distinct differences between cultivars in the length of the dormancy period. Of the cultivars investigated, the spring wheat cultivars Kolibri, Kleiber, Selpek and Atle and the winter wheat cultivar Bezostaja 1 and Kranich display the longest dormancy. 2. High temperatures during and after ripening seems to shorten the dormancy period. However, there are probably other climatic factors which should also be considered. 3. The influence of the accumulated temperature during the dough stage on the duration of dormancy varies from year to year and from place to place. Results obtained so far indicate that accumulated temperatures cannot be used as a basis for an efficient warning system.
23786113|A set of Austrian-grown winter wheats, covering the whole range of quality groups, was investigated by test-baking of small breads using an automatic home-bakery. The quality traits water absorption, baking absorption, and loaf volume were used as parameters. The results were compared with the official Austrian classification scheme of wheat quality. The analyses revealed a reliable assessment of the breadmaking quality if mixing of the dough was carried out outside the home-bakery. Kneading of the dough in the home-bakery proved to be too weak compared with Austrian standard procedures. However, the automatic nature of the process is then partly lost.
90002754|An integrated agrometeorological forecasting system was built out in SE Hungary. The system is based upon 12 meteorological stations deployed at thoroughly selected sites in 3 counties. Collected and calculated meteorological data serve as basis for disease forecasting algorithms worked out for the typical fruits, vegetables and arable crops of the region. Experiences after the first years usage suggest that the disease forecasting system gives reliable data to make efficient management of plant pathogens possible.
23785336|Numerous methods have been elaborated for the determination of photosynthetic ability in various plants, but they are all complicated and require sophisticated equipment. In the present paper a modified version of the light microscope technique reported by Crookstonn and Moss (1974) was used to measure the number of mesophyllic cell rows and the distance between the vascular bundles in leaf samples of three plants from each of 379 different plant species. In this way it was possible to distinguish plants of the C3 and C4 types extremely easily and reliably. Using the new deuterium method it also proved possible to identify plants of the CAM type and distinguish them from C3 and C4 plants in two different plant families.
90002810|The yield, oil content and oil yield of sunflower is determined by the interactive relationship of crop year, hybrid and crop density. The highest yields and highest oil content was obtained in relatively dry years with sufficient precipitation and favourable temperature. The smallest yields and oil yield was reported in crop years with above average precipitation. The optimal crop density was determined by the hybrids (hybrid specific methods). The oil yield was primarily determined by the grain quantity and was modified by the oil content. In the average of the hybrids and the years, the highest oil yield was obtained at 55000 ha
23787185|Seven regenerable oat genotypes were cultured via callus, multiple meristem and multiple meristem-to-callus combinations to produce plants. Meristem-to-callus refers to the induction of multiple meristems under reduced auxin followed by the initiation and proliferation of callus from such multiple meristems under high auxin-containing media. Numbers of regenerated plants from all three tissue culture methods were significantly higher (P=0.05) in GP-1 than in other genotypes. In the GP-1 x Corbit and Corbit x GP-1 genotypes, higher plant numbers were observed when GP-1 was the maternal parent. For Corbit, an agronomically important oat genotype, tissue culture methods using callus and meristem-to-callus produced more plants per gram than using multiple meristem cultures alone. The meristem-to-callus method, in particular, produced substantial numbers of plants per gram in Corbit.
23785303|Five South African wheat cultivars and five foreign Russian wheat aphid (Diuraphis noxia Mordvilko) resistance source cultivars were fingerprinted using RAPD analysis. These cultivars are being used in breeding programs aimed at developing new D. noxia resistant wheat cultivars. Cultivar, genome and species specific markers were produced through RAPD analysis of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), triticale (x Triticosecale Wittmack) and rye (Secale cereale L.) genomic DNA using twenty nine oligonucleotide primers. These markers were used to construct a RAPD fingerprinting profile that distinguished all the cultivars included in the study. A total of 239 scorable RAPD LOCI were used to calculate pairwise genetic distances which revealed an average distance of 6.9% between the local susceptible and foreign resistance source cultivars. Unweighted pair-group mean arithmetic (UPGMA) cluster analysis of the genetic distance data yielded a dendrogram that was consistent with the known genetic relationships and pedigrees of the cultivars in the study.
