1350352|A new, hand-operated sampler which collects interstitial water to a depth of 7.0 cm is described. To test the usefulness of the instrument, studies were made of 17 habitats of Cyathura polita in the southeastern United States. Measurements of physical-chemical parameters were made of interstitial and overlying waters, and associated plants and animals were noted to further characterize the cyathuran biotopes. Temperature and dissolved oxygen of interstitial water were determined in situ with a galvanic oxygen analyzer and thermistor. Water pumped from the sampler was used to measure pH and salinity. The instrument performed well, and repeated sampling at one locality yielded consistent results. Based on the data from this study and that reported in the literature, a few general statements can be made. The amount of dissolved oxygen in overlying water is greater than in interstitial water. There is correlation between dissolved oxygen and type of substratum, the amount of oxygen decreasing as the particle size decreases and the proportion of mud and silt to sand increases. The pH values for interstitial water are lower than those for the overlying water.
1350909|The polyp of Chrysaora quinquecirrha (sea nettle) has two forms of nematocytes on the oral arms and upper stalk. A nematocyte with an unencapsulated thread and another containing an encysted heteroneme were observed. One or both of these structures were capable of producing a clinical sting in humans. The relationship of these structures with similar nematocytes present in sea nettle medusae is discussed.
1350725|A total of 322 specimens of the blackbanded sunfish Enneacanthus c. chaetodon, was collected during two separate drainings of Smithville Pond, on the Coastal Plain, Caroline County, Maryland. Ninety, 30 from the November 1955 and 60 from the July 1958 samples, were examined to ascertain age, growth, body proportions, food and sexual dimorphism. Body proportions approached those noted for the recently described southern subspecies E. c. elizabethae. No morphological or growth differences were found between males and females in either sample. Lengths of 43-53 mm were attained in about four years. Wide differences occurred, between samples, in the calculated lengths for ages 1 and 2 while those for ages 3 and 4 were more similar. Further investigation will determine whether these data exhibit populations which reflect extremes of growth-environment interplay or an unreliability in the scale method of determining age and growth for this species. Chironomids (summer) and caddis fly larvae (fall) were prominent food items.
1350549|The development of Chrysaora quinquecirrha from the newly-liberated ephyra through the medusa stages is described. Studies on the development of specimens from nature were correlated with observations on laboratory-reared medusae. Growth was followed through six stages, successive stages being characterized by the appearance of or change in a given morphological character. Young ephyrae were similar to those of C. melanaster, having slender, pointed lappets and deeply cut ocular clefts. Medusae having one, three, five, and seven or more tentacles per octant were observed. The number of lappets increased following an increase in the number of tentacles. This confirms that the number of tentacles and lappets is unreliable as a criterion for generic distinction in the Pelagiidae.
1351212|The effect of blowing (washing in water agitated with air) on the water absorption and the sand and shell content of soft shell clams was investigated. Water absorption increased in direct proportion to blowing time. The% total solids decreased with increased blowing time. The sand and shell content decreased as blowing progressed but at a diminishing rate. Reducing the volume ratio of clams to water increased water absorption, increased shell removal, and reduced the% total solids.
1350386| The toxicity of total residual chlorination (TRC) to early life stages of the striped bass, Morone saxatilis, was determined using percent embryo hatchability, incipient LC50 bioassays, histopathology, and avoidance responses. Beginning 8 to 9 hours after fertilization, developing embryos were exposed continuously to TRC in flowing water at 1.0-3.0 ppt salinity and 18  1 C. Fifty-six percent of the control group (no TRC exposure) hatched. None of the embryos exposed to a measured TRC concentration of 0.21 mg/l hatched. Only 3.5 percent of the embryos exposed to 0.07 mg/l TRC and 23 percent of those exposed to 0.01 mg/l TRC hatched. Incipient LC50 bioassays were used to determine the sensitivity of 2-, 12- and 30-day-old striped bass to concentrations of TRC in flowing water (1.0-3.0 ppt salinity at 18  1 C). The estimated incipient LC50 was 0.04 mg/l TRC for 2-day-old prolarvae, 0.07 mg/l for 12-day-old larvae and 0.04 mg/l for 30-day-old juveniles. Histological examination of 30-day-old juveniles which survived exposure in the incipient LC50 bioassay indicated gill and pseudobranch damage for fish exposed to 0.21 to 2.36 mg/l TRC. Statistical analysis of avoidance tests conducted at 1.0-3.0 ppt salinity and 18  1 C with 24-day-old larvae showed significant ( X<sup>2</sup>, p < 0.05) and reproducible avoidance responses to measured TRC concentrations of 0.79-0.82 mg/l and 0.29-0.32 mg/l. No avoidance was indicated at TRC concentrations of 0.16-0.18 mg/l. 
1350368|Fecundity data for 24 northern puffer from the lower Chesapeake Bay indicate production of up to 0.5 million eggs by 300 mm TL fish. The left ovary averaged 1.6X larger than the right. Despite the physical difference in ovary size, eggs from Gilson's solution treated ovaries were of equivalent size in both left and right ovaries. Fecundity versus total body length and body weight are presented.
1350848| B. truncata larvae are nearly round in appearance with a dark band around the margin of the shell. The shell is faintly pink near the umbo and at the ventral margin of large larvae. Two interlocking hinge teeth are present in each valve of larvae 70  in length or larger. One tooth is about 25  long while the other three are 5-10 . Straight hinge larvae measure 55-95  in length with a straight hinge line about 45  long. Height is 0-10  less than length, and thickness 20-25  less. The umbo is a rounded knob giving larvae a circular appearance and is present in larvae from 85-315  in length. In umbo larvae, height is 0-20  less than length, and thickness 25 to 80  less. Gills are formed before the loss of the velum, and metamorphosis occurs when larvae reach a length of 250-315 . 
1351269|We studied the feasibility of spawning and rearing the Atlantic croaker, Micropogon undulatus, in the laboratory. Adult croaker were collected during mid-October, 1972, placed in flowing seawater holding tanks, and administered injections of either 125 or 250 I. U. of chorionic gonadotropin three times per week for three weeks. An apparent period of latency (6-7 days) was observed between the initial hormone injections and successful ovulation. Fish dosed at the 125 I. U. level were successfully spawned and eggs and larval development monitored. Larvae were carried through to 4 days after hatching when mass mortalities occurred, apparently as a result of nutritional deficiencies.
1350365|Field work on the bog turtle, Clemmys muhlenbergi (Schoepff), was carried out in Delaware from June 1971 to February 1974. It is now known in this state from more than 44 specimens from 11 localities in the Piedmont and Coastal Plain. Populations are known to occur at 4 localities and extensive field work was carried out at 3 of these. Data on size, sex, habitat, activity, behavior, reproduction, mortality, and distribution and abundance were collected and compared with data in the literature. These comparisons indicate that its biology in Delaware is similar to that in other states. Field data on cloacal temperature are presented for the first time, and this turtle was found to be active at a body temperature ranging from 17 to 35 C. This study and the recent great interest in the bog turtle reveal it to be more widely distributed and common than was previously thought. Although probably not as numerous as other turtles in its range, it is more secretive than rare.
1351037|This study determines when the color rhythm appears in the developmental stages of Uca pugilator. After hatching, samples of larvae were raised through the five zoeal stages and one megalops to metamorphosis. Using the Hogben and Slome method, melanophore readings were recorded at 4 hr intervals from 0800 to 2000, EDT, for 21.5 consecutive days. These readings were recorded from the postero-lateral and postero-ventral margins of the cephalothorax in the zoeae and megalops, respectively. The experiment indicated no diurnal color rhythm upon hatching or throughout the zoeal stages. The primary and secondary chromatophore response developed at megalops.
1351195|Species of Phaeophycean algae, not previously reported from Virginia, have been found in habitats of a tidal marsh in Accomack Co. They are Myrionema corunnae, Ralfsia verrucosa, Sorocarpus micromorus, Stictyosiphon soriferus, and Streblonema oligosporum. Studies in culture of Myrionema and Streblonema were made. Both taxa were found to have a type of development involving zoospores, prostrate plants and plurangia. Streblonema found growing endophytically in Porphyra was shown to have the potential of growth in the absence of a host plant.
1351129| Despite the continuous nuisance value of the sea nettle in Chesapeake Bay, the only major report on the biology of this species was that of the laboratory studies by Littleford in 1939. Therefore, we began a study of the biology of Chrysaora quinquecirrha aimed at increasing the understanding of its life history which had not been investigated. The occurrence of sessile stages on the under-sides of a variety of substrates, especially oyster shells, is reported for the first time. The geographic range of the polyp stage in Chesapeake Bay is partially delineated with respect to depth (<11 m) and salinity (5-19). Sampling for ephyrae near Solomons, Maryland suggested that strobilation began in April and extended into August. The growth of medusae was rapid, and their feeding appeared opportunistic and frequent. The response of polyps to unfavorable conditions was to encyst. We also noted the production of pedal cysts during late summer in the absence of any apparent inducement, suggesting an important asexual mode of reproduction. A brief discussion of observed ecological associations of the polyps and medusae with other organisms is included. 
1350546|Respiratory rates of Macoma balthica, Mulinia lateralis and Mya arenaria were determined under an experimental design using acclimation and exposure temperatures ranging from 1 to 30 C. Rates decreased with increasing size and in general varied directly with temperature. However, high temperatures (30 C) depressed metabolism of cold-acclimated Mulinia and Mya. Very young Mya were less affected by high temperature (30 C) than were Mya a few months older. Mya and Mulinia demonstrated acclimation pattern III A. Small Macoma had pattern III B, which changed to IV C for larger animals. Macoma was least affected by high or low temperature stress, followed by Mya, then Mulinia. All three species were able to compensate for temperature change to a varying extent. Unseasonal artificial warming of the benthic environment could elevate metabolism of the species studied, which could lead to starvation if food were scarce, especially in winter.
1350731|Eighteen young gag, Mycteroperca microlepis, 61-186 mm F. L., were recorded from Chincoteague Bay, Eastern Shore waters, off Virginia Beach, and within Chesapeake Bay from July to November 1960. Average lengths at progressive collecting periods suggest rapid growth. Coloration and pattern varied somewhat among the specimens.
1350758|Recent work on the taxonomy and biology of three species of membraniporine ectoprocts of the Chesapeake Bay area has necessitated changes in their nomenclature. Acanthodesia tenuis is now known as Membranipora tenuis, Membranipora membranacea must be considered to be as undescribed species of Membranipora, and Electra crustulenta has been found to be Conopeum tenuissimum. Recognition of these changes is particularly important in the case of Conopeum tenuissimum, a very common fouling species over large areas of Chesapeake Bay.
1350844|Rates of production were measured at 22 stations located in a 29-mile segment of the Patuxent River Estuary. The river was sampled in mid-stream at 12 stations which were distributed from a point near Solomons, Maryland, to Milltown Landing upstream. Thirteen of the stations were arranged in three transects, which spanned the river in the vicinity of Chalk Point. Standing crops of chlorophyll and rates of photosynthesis were measured at a depth of 1.0 meter on 14 cruises spaced over a 23-month interval. Concentrations of chlorophyll, and co-efficients of carbon assimilation and light extinction were employed to convert estimates at a depth of 1.0 meter to rates of production for the entire water column. Both salinity and thickness of the euphotic layer showed a considerable gradient in the study area. Salinity increased threefold and thickness of the euphotic zone increased fivefold at the downstream end. The gradient was steepest in the study area upstream of the bridge at Benedict, Maryland. Concentrations of chlorophyll were related to season and position in the estuary. They ranged from 33.3 mg/ m<sup>3</sup> in October to 3.7 mg/ m<sup>3</sup> in December, the amplitude being largest at the upstream end of the study area. Average concentration at Station 1 was only 1/3 of the concentration 20 miles upstream at Station 22. The gradient was steeper upstream from the bridge at Benedict. Chlorophyll was least uniformly distributed in the water column immediately downstream from the bridge. Photosynthetic activity of chlorophyll, at probably subsaturation light intensity, ranged from a mean of 5.21 in August to 1.09 in December. The average for all cruises, when corrected to saturation intensities of light, was near a widely accepted value for rates of carbon assimilation per unit of chlorophyll. Rates of carbon assimilation ranged from 2.3 to 148.5 mgC/ m<sup>3</sup>/ hr. The months from June through October were the most productive in 1963. However, the Spring of 1964 was considerably more productive than was the preceding year, suggesting that the productive period is of longer duration in some years. Seasonal trends in productivity were similar at all stations along a 29-mile segment of the river. The downstream end was only 1/3 as productive on a per-unit-volume basis. Despite the larger rates of production at the upstream end of the study area, the region was least productive per unit of area, owing to the shallowness of the euphotic zone. Mean daily rates for the year were 1.2 gC/ m<sup>2</sup> for the upstream area and 1.8 gC/ m<sup>2</sup> for the area downstream from the bridge. The limitations of the computations for the highly turbulent upstream area are discussed.
1350926|Scales from 13 different areas of the body of white perch, Roccus americanus, were studied to ascertain the extent of variability in the calculated standard length at the formation of the first annulus. The objective was to determine the area from which scales most representative of all the areas could be sampled for age and growth studies. Calculated lengths from each area in 10 specimens ranging from 75 to 143 mm standard length from age groups I to III were compared with the average for all areas, and the one with the least deviation from the mean was considered suitable for age, growth and tagging studies. Minimum average differences were obtained from scales taken from the side of the body under the posterior two-thirds of the dorsal fins, both above and below the lateral line. Area 9 above the lateral line and between the spinous and soft dorsal fin was selected as the sample site in a study of the white perch population of the Patuxent River, Maryland.
1351313|Killifishes were collected from Patuxent River Estuary and injected intravascularly with colloidal carbon. The ovaries and thyroid gill area were removed and prepared for histological examination. Carbon was not observed within developing oocytes during any of the ovarian cycles. However, particle uptake did occur in follicular and stromal macrophages and in mixed macrophages of corpora lutea in the spent and spawning ovary. Carbon was also observed in endothelial cells of thyroid capillaries, but only during spawning stages. The origin of ovarian macrophages was discussed and corpora luteal capillary morphology was viewed in light of recent permeability studies.
1351138|Seasonal occurrence of brachyuran developmental stages is predictable in meroplankton collected inside the barrier islands of North Carolina near inlets and along longitudinal transects of the larger estuaries. Nets of 1 mm mesh employed in the sampling program limited catches to larger zoeae and megalopae, and of these only a fraction can be identified with precision. Callinectes megalopae were taken in every month of the year and through almost the entire length of the estuary. Evidence indicates that this postlarval stage is active in surface waters at night, contributing substantially to dispersal of the species, probably C. sapidus in this case. Hexapanopeus angustifrons megalopae were limited to the warm season in samples from a single station near Beaufort Inlet. Rhithropanopeus harrisii zoeae and megalopae were distributed abundantly in oligo-mesohaline waters of Neuse and Pamlico Rivers. Showing no nocturnal stratification, the stages were present continuously from June to October. Megalopae of all these species, usually considered benthic in habit, are readily captured in surface waters at night.
1350688|Plant communities on the front, top, and back of the foredunes were examined at 22 randomly chosen sites. One or more species of grass (Uniola paniculata, Ammophila breviligulata, Panicum amarum) dominate most of the communities, except a few on the top and back of the foredune at Ocracoke Island which are dominated by Hydrocotyle bonariensis. Principal component factor analyses and cluster analyses revealed that different community types have developed on the front, top, and back of the dune system. On the average, communities on the front and top of the foredune are significantly different structurally from communities on the back in the number of species per stand (10.2, 11.4, and 19.0 respectively) and in their Shannon-Wiener diversities (1.18, 1.25, and 1.44), but are not significantly different in their Simpson dominance indices (0.41, 0.41, and 0.37). An analysis of the communities which have developed on a series of experimental dune sections on Ocracoke Island revealed that the method used to build a dune has a lasting influence on the type of plant community which is subsequently formed. This appears to be the result of differences in the amount of cover and distribution of the dominant grasses which determine the pattern of accumulation and shifting of sand.
1350971|Spartina alterniflora Loisel. produces large quantities of viable seed, particularly when stands are vigorous and relatively young. Excellent germination occurred when seeds were harvested as near the shattering stage as possible, stored in burlap sheets at 2-3 C for 1 month, and submerged in estuarine or sea water at 2-3 C until seeding the following spring. Direct seeding from April until early June is an effective method of establishing new stands of S. alterniflora on dredge spoil in protected areas. The elevational range over which seedlings can be expected to survive is limited to the upper 20-50% of that occupied by natural stands in a given area. Complete cover is achieved the first growing season and the above-ground standing crop produced from seed in one growing season can exceed that produced from transplants and may approach that of long-established marshes.
1350998|Results of a 1962 mid-winter census of the American bald eagle, Haliaeetus leucocephalus, present in the greater Chesapeake Bay region are reported. Ground observations supplemented by some aerial coverage located 200 eagles of which 24 per cent were immature birds. Previous attempts to estimate eagle abundance through nest surveys in the region are reviewed. Though this census offers the most complete estimate of eagle abundance in this region at any one time, similar counts coupled with nesting success studies should be conducted on an annual basis for several years to fully understand the true status of this species in this area.
1351198|From March 1972 through December 1974, fishes were systematically and intensively sampled throughout the bays and ocean between Long Beach Island and Atlantic City, New Jersey. Of the 167 species taken, 13 are considered new to New Jersey while 33 are believed to be uncommon. Data are presented on these 46 species and associated oceanographic observations.
1350593| This paper contains the first published radiometrically determined contemporary sedimentation rate, a rate characteristic of the past few decades, for any part of the Chesapeake Bay estuarine system. Cores collected from a station in the main body of the Chesapeake Bay off Tilghman Island (384130N, 762400W) were analyzed for Pb<sup>210</sup>, organic carbon, nitrogen, and selected metals. A mean sedimentation rate of between 0.09-0.12 cm/y was inferred from the Pb<sup>210</sup> data. The distributions of C and N are typical of many areas of the Bay. The distributions of extractable Ni, Cr, Cu, and Pb increased in the upper 10-15 cm of the core. The increases in metal concentrations over the past century or so may be a result of man's activities. 
1351153|The James River and the Chesapeake Bay meet in the waters of Hampton Roads, Virginia. A study was made of the phytoplankton in Hampton Roads and adjoining Willoughby Bay from January 1964 to May 1965. The composition and seasonal variations of total phytoplankton and major species are described for three stations in this area. The major phytoplankters were neritic north temperate species. The diatoms, chiefly Skeletonema costatum, Asterionella japonica, and Nitzschia pungens atlantica, composed the winter and early spring maxima. Diatoms and large numbers of phytoflagellates were the major constituents in collections during summer and fall. The fluctuation in the composition and vertical distribution of phytoplankton is discussed for a 24-hour period, at one station, in Hampton Roads, where Skeletonema costatum was the most numerous plankter in all of the samples.
1351180|An ecological study of the upper Patuxent River, Maryland was made from June 1963 to June 1966 to determine water quality and distribution of emergent and submergent macrophytes. The area investigated was 25 miles long and extended from Benedict to Hills Bridge. Physical and chemical measurements of the aquatic environment determined that: (1) the highest intrusion of salt water was Hills Bridge and the lowest was Holland Cliffs; (2) a total salinity value of around 0.3 ppt represented the boundary between fresh and saline water; (3) fluctuation of parameters over 24-hour period reflected biological activity and tidal changes. The flora was composed of 167 species representing 55 families of vascular plants and 12 species of macrophytic algae.
1351292|The testes of Opsanus tau are paired, elongated organs lying along the dorsal body wall. They are drained by a series of spermatic ducts which remain separate throughout their length and which empty their contents into the cloaca via a small genital papilla. Spermatogenesis occurs cyclically within cysts which line the testis tubules. Maturation and division occur simultaneously in all of the cells within the cyst. Six distinct stages of spermatogenesis have been recognized and described. With phase microscopy, sperm differentiation was investigated and described. Two tails are characteristic of the sperm of this species. Seasonal variations in the spermatogenic cycle occur. Animals within the same month, however, also show considerable variation. Prior to the breeding season, the tubules are filled with masses of stored sperm and the cysts are small and inactive. During the breeding season, the tubules become empty of sperm and this is rapidly followed by a reactivation of spermatogenesis with a subsequent increase in luminal spermatozoa.
1350590|Juvenile striped bass, Morone saxatilis, were exposed to 0.5, 2.5, and 5.0 parts per billion (ppb) cadmium as cadmium chloride for 30-90 days and to 1.0, 5.0, and 10.0 ppb mercury as mercuric chloride for 30-120 days. Following the longest exposure to each metal, the fish were allowed to recover for 30 days in running seawater. Gill-tissue respiration, glucose-6-phosphatase, malic enzyme, aspartate aminotransferase, and magnesium activation of AAT were measured. Animals exposed to either metal exhibited changes in gill-tissue respiration. There was no significant difference in enzyme activity during exposure to either metal; however, fish cleared for 30 days following exposure to cadmium exhibited a slight drop in liver AAT and G6PdH.
1351331|Two cases of aspergillosis involving four adult cowbirds (Molothrus ater) collected during the nesting season are reported. Aspergillosis was found in house sparrows (Passer domesticus) on two occasions.
1351266| The hydrography of the lower Murderkill River, a small, shallow estuary in southeastern Delaware, was studied from July, 1967, through December, 1970. Variations of current velocity, tide stage, salinity, water temperature, and dissolved oxygen were measured at one station in the estuary during periods of mean and high freshwater runoff. The flushing time and mixing characteristics of the estuary during mean runoff were determined using a water-tracer dye. Seasonal and tidal variations of salinity, water temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH and turbidity were measured at seven stations along the estuary from September, 1969 through December, 1970. The Murderkill Estuary has characteristics of both a well-mixed and partially-mixed estuary. The prevailing hydrographic regime is maintained by tidal mixing and forced river flow which disrupt density-induced, internal circulation. Approximately 90% of the upstream salt flux is maintained by diffusion. During mean freshwater runoff the estuary discharges 1.7 10<sup>5</sup> m<sup>3</sup> of freshwater seaward per tidal cycle and has a flushing time of 4.4 tidal cycles. The flushing time decreases from 18.4 tidal cycles during low runoff, 3.1 10<sup>4</sup> m<sup>3</sup> per tidal cycle, to 2.6 tidal cycles during high runoff, 3.1 10<sup>5</sup> m<sup>3</sup> per tidal cycle. The proposed daily discharge of 3.8 10<sup>4</sup> m<sup>3</sup> of sewage effluent into the estuary will shorten the flushing time of the estuary at the discharge site from 4.4 to 3.9 tidal cycles during mean runoff. Salinity distributions in the estuary are highly variable. At high water, the lower reaches of the estuary are occupied by moderately saline water, 15.7 to 28.2 , from lower Delaware Bay. Vertical and longitudinal salinity gradients are small. In the central section of the estuary, salinity decreases from values characteristic of lower Delaware Bay to 1.0 . Mean vertical salinity differences are 2.0 , and the mean longitudinal salinity gradient is 2.7  per km. In tidal freshwater, salinity does not exceed 1.0 , and salinity gradients, vertical and longitudinal, are small. At low water, salinity in the lower reaches of the estuary is reduced substantially. The water column is well mixed, and the mean longitudinal salinity gradient is 2.4  per km. Tidal freshwater occupies the upstream 30% to 70% of the estuary with increasing runoff. Dissolved oxygen concentrations in the estuary range from 10 to 12 mg/liter during the winter to 2 to 3 mg/liter during the summer. A zone of oxygen depletion appears in the central section of the estuary. This section will receive the effluent from the sewage-treatment facility. Oxygenated water presently enters the central section of the estuary from inland freshwater runoff and from lower Delaware Bay. 
1351067|Until about 1955 Atlantic menhaden (Brevoortia tyrannus) purse seine catches in Chesapeake Bay were distributed equally among week days from Monday to Friday. From 1956 to 1961 the catch landed on Mondays averaged about 22% of the weekly totals. As fishing pressure increased and the population decreased after 1961, the percentage of the catch landed on Mondays rose, averaging about 34% of the weekly total. The increase in Monday catches is attributed to greater availability of fish after reduced fishing over the weekend.
1351097| The two meter depth of waters of the James River estuary and adjacent continental shelf was sampled at 34 locations. Dissolved fatty acids were analyzed by gas-liquid chromatography. Total acids generally ranged from 10-25 g/l while individual fatty acids ranged from 1-4 g/l. C<sub>14</sub> and C<sub>16</sub> chain lengths were dominant for saturated fatty acids, and C<sub>14</sub>, C<sub>16</sub>,and C<sub>18</sub> were the most common unsaturated acids. The proportion of odd-numbered chain-length C<sub>15</sub> acid was found to be greater in the estuarine than in shelf water. Differences between fatty-acid concentrations of estuarine and ocean water were not sufficient to serve as distinguishing characteristics for these water masses. 
1350372|Recent investigations have shown the pelagic distribution of plastic particles in the ocean to be widespread; and their source and fate have been the subject of considerable discussion in the United States. In the waters of Block Island Sound there is a seasonal fluctuation in their abundance. Their source appears to be Long Island Sound, probably originating from the rivers on the Connecticut Shore. They are transported out to sea by the action of the tidal currents in the upper 10-15 meters of the water column.
1351239|Fecal pellets voided by 70 invertebrate species are described, 66 of these for the first time. Pellet size is related to size of animals, and linear regressions are given for two species. Pellet characteristics described are cross-sectional shape, sculpture, differentiation, composition, and shape. The morphology is specific for many animals. However, certain species void feces which are 1) diffuse, 2) morphologically inconsistent, or 3) lack differentiating characteristics.
1350532|The JOHN A. RYDER, clam dredging research vessel of the Maryland Department of Research and Education, was converted from dual-engine to single-engine powering of the pumping and propulsion systems through use of a controllable-pitch propeller designed for the specific application by Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics Corporation. The dredge pump is driven by mechanical power take-off from the propulsion engine at any desired speed, and optimal thrust is obtained by adjustment of the controllable-pitch propeller. Tests conducted by the Department of Research and Education before and after conversion included (1) cruising speed and fuel consumption at cruising speed, (2) dredging rates, and (3) fuel requirements of dredging. Performance of the controllable-pitch propeller at cruising speed compares favorably with that of the fixed-pitch propeller formerly used. Fuel savings of about one-third are realizable with the single-engine powering system, with no sacrifice of necessary flexibility of operation.
1351338| The larvae of the stone crab, Menippe mercenaria (Say) have been reared in 18 different environments-comprising 6 levels of salinity (10, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 ) and 3 levels of temperature (20, 25 and 30 C). The results show that both salinity and temperature affect the rate of larval development as well as larval survival. The rate of development was slightly slower in a reduced salinity (20 ) than in high salinities (30-40 ), and very markedly retarded with decreasing temperature from 30 to 20 C. Total mortality was observed in the first zoeal stage in 10  at all temperatures. In other experimental salinities (20-40 ) at 20 C, the larvae only developed to the megalopa. Survival to the megalopa at 20 C was less in 20-25  than in 30-40  and also lower than that observed at 25 and 30 C. Survival to the first crab at 25 and 30 C was considerably lower in 20  than in higher salinities. The optimum temperature for the larvae of M. mercenaria would be approximately 30 C, and the optimum salinity in the range of 30-35 . Under these conditions, the megalopa was reached on the 14th day after hatching, and the first crab on the 21st day, with total survival in the range of 60-72%. From the relatively high survival and the short development period, it would appear that the stone crab might be a more suitable species than other commercially important crabs for any future large-scale rearing experiments. 
1350899| Five hundred fifty-four larvae of Microgobius thalassinus were collected from June through October 1966 in the York River 0 to 46 km from the mouth. M. thalassinus larvae were distinguished by having a double row of more than seven evenly spaced melanophores along the ventral body margin. Larval distribution in the York River was restricted to salinities of 16.69 to 23.25 , compared with larvae of Gobiosoma bosci which occurred in fresher water and larvae of G. ginsburgi which are associated with more saline waters. 
1350975|The freshwater polychaete, Manayunkia speciosa Leidy, is reported from the Schuylkill River in southeastern Pennsylvania for the first time near the type-locality since 1858. This polychaete appears to have a wide range of tolerance for environmental parameters such as dissolved oxygen content (1.8 to 14.0 ppm), depth (0.3 to 16.0 m), pH (6.8 to 8.8), and water temperature (2.8 to 28.3 C). An environmental factor which may limit its distribution is the requirement for fine particulate material in the substrate for the construction of the tube in which it lives.
1350969|It is possible to make statistically significant comparative measurements of similar sections of subestuaries under conditions where the large natural variations would mask all but drastic changes in the systems if they were studied individually. The comparative study is proposed as a modification to the baseline study of a single system for the assessment of the effects of man's activities in an estuary. We have made temporally coincident measurements of phytoplankton production, standing crops and a range of physical and chemical parameters in comparable sections of the Rhode and West rivers and in an adjacent section of the Chesapeake Bay for the 3-year period 1970-1972. We analyzed the data for standing crops and demonstrated that at least at the trophic level of phytoplankton, the judicious application of a paired comparative sampling protocol to the Rhode and West rivers is superior to a study of either system alone. We calculate that the paired comparison sampling protocol requires approximately one tenth the sample size of the single-system sampling technique to achieve the same significance level.
1350801| The zooplankton of the North Inlet estuary near Georgetown, South Carolina, was collected bi-weekly from January 1974 to August 1975 (20 months) at four stations. Zooplankton numbers ranged from 377 to 84,414 m<sup>-3</sup> (X = 9257 m<sup>-3</sup>) and biomass from 640 to 140,169 g dry weight m<sup>-3</sup> (X = 16,178 g dry weight m<sup>-3</sup>). The major peak in the density of zooplankton occurred between April and July both years. Copepods (including larval stages) were the dominant taxon comprising 64-69% of total zooplankton numbers and biomass. The most common species were Parvocalanus crassirostris (Dahl), Acartia tonsa Dana, Oithona colcarva Bowman, and Euterpina acutifrons (Dana). Cirripedia nauplii were the most common meroplankton comprising 13% of the total zooplankton for the entire sampling period. Other important groups were bivalve and polychaete larvae and the larvacean Oikopleura sp. Comparisons of the major species of copepods and their reproductive periodicities with those reported in the literature suggest that the North Inlet fauna is most closely allied to that of Florida waters. 
1351052|During February through December 1969 I investigated a nearshore population of cunners, Tautogolabrus adspersus (Labridae), in Fishers Island Sound off the coast of Connecticut and Rhode Island. I examined length-weight relationships and seasonal changes in condition, age and growth, spawning period, age at maturity and sex ratio; nocturnal and winter habits were observed using SCUBA. No significant difference was observed between male and female length-weight equations when gonads and stomach contents were removed. Body condition, possibly related to fat storage prior to overwintering, improved perceptibly from spring through fall, and fall condition was significantly better than spring and summer condition. Males were larger than females of the same age, and maximum readable age for both sexes was five years. Both males and females matured and spawned during their second year of growth when one year old. The spawning period was well defined and occurred primarily during June. I found an overall male to female sex ratio of 2.2:1. The predominance of males over females increased for older fish, indicating greater longevity for male cunners. Nocturnal behavior consisted of a quiescent, resting attitude accompanied by a camouflaging pattern change in those cunners most exposed to view. Activity dwindled in the fall until a state of dormancy was reached at about 7 to 8 C, with the larger fish becoming dormant first. Cunners overwintered in the same inshore areas where they were found during other times of the year.
1350757| A method of setting up an inexpensive and easily maintained system with flowing filtered and temperature-regulated seawater is described. Filtration is by a combination of filter bags and cartridges of various porosities that results in 1 -filtered seawater with particulate carbon concentrations of less than 30 -grams/liter. The temperature of the water is regulated by a titanium heat transfer panel. Water is then pumped to a head tank for distribution to experimental trays. Alarm systems for excessive temperature and water level fluctuations are described. 
1351079|The vertical distribution of the polychaete Sabellaria vulgaris Verrill and its sandgrain tube material was studied on a sandflat near the mouth of the Mispillion River in Delaware Bay. Numbers of live worms, and amounts of tube material were determined for 13 exposure time zones on the sandflat. Exposure zones were established according to measurements made during an extreme low-water spring tide. Numbers of live worms declined sharply above the 126-150-minute exposure zone. Almost no live worms were found above 175 minutes of exposure. The largest amount of tube (colony) material was found in the area characterized as the 101-150-minute exposure zone. There was less colony material both above and below this level on the sandflat. An explanation as to why the 101-150-minute exposure zone is optimal for tube construction is proposed, and a comparision with the zonation of Sabellaria alveolata in England is made.
1351356|Transforming clingfish larvae 4-12 mm T. L. are illustrated. Meristic and morphometric data for 50 larvae are examined. Fin ray counts were verified from stained specimens. Counts were: pectoral 22-24, pelvic 4, dorsal 10-12, anal 9-10 and caudal 22-23. Differentiation and total fin ray complement were achieved at 9.0 mm T. L. or greater. The distinctive clinging disc was first observed in 4.5 mm specimens and was complete at 12.0 mm. Lack of pigmentation over the posterior quarter of the larvae was obvious for larvae less than 12.0 mm.
1350398|The ascidian Amaroucium constellatum inhabits the shallow coastal Sinepuxent and Chincoteague Bays and was found predominantly over mud, mud-oyster, oyster bottoms or on pilings and occasionally on the oyster drill, Urosalpinx cinerea, where moderate currents and salinities above 28 ppt prevail. A. constellatum was also noted on sand bottoms to a depth of five fathoms in coastal waters near Chincoteague, Virginia.
1351326|Catch data logged by charter boat captains fishing off Virginia's Eastern Shore from 1955 through 1962 reflect seasonality, migrational patterns, and population trends of species caught. Nineteen percent of 2,369 trips recorded were for offshore "big game" species, 31% of the trips were for inshore "big game" species, and 50% of the trips were for the smaller game fishes. Seasonal patterns and catch data for bluefish, cobia, dolphin, weakfish, kingfish, Atlantic croaker, black and red drum, little tuna, Atlantic bonito, bluefin tuna, white marlin, summer flounder, and black sea bass are given. A discussion of factors affecting catch rate data is presented and related to these charter boat catches.
1350534|Enumerations were made of coliforms, "Escherichia coli" and stormy fermenters, (presumably Clostridium perfringens), as indicators of fecal pollution in the soft-shelled clam, Mya arenaria, and in its habitat, through a seasonal cycle. Stormy fermenters showed a pattern similar to coliforms and "E. coli" in clams, but no similarities were observed among these organisms in the overlying waters, the sediment-water interface or the sediments. When examined as a function of temperature, none of the indicator microorganisms showed marked seasonal trends in bacterial density. Stormy fermenters apparently did not produce any false positive coliform reactions during the course of this study.
1350442|Comparison is made of the population of ospreys in Cape May County, N. J., in the late 1930's with that in 1963, and with a population of these birds at Tilghman Island, Maryland. Production of young per nest in the 1930's compares favorably with the production of young in the populations examined in 1963. It is suggested, based on historical evidence, that a decline in the numbers of these birds has been going on for some time. Acceleration of this decline in New Jersey is more obvious in the years covered by this paper.
1351082| A microsporidium, tentatively identified as Nosema sp., was found in living and dead larvae and adults of the white pine weevil, Pissodes strobi, following unexplained mortalities of this insect in Allegany County, Maryland. It produced a generalized infection, accompanied by extensive tissue destruction, but was noticed particularly in muscle, fat body, and gut wall tissues, as well as reproductive organs and Malpighian tubules. Microspores were ovoidal and 3.5-4.2  1.8-2.2 m. Macrospores were ovoidal or reniform, 5.0-6.0  1.8-2.5 m. Because the spores were found to occur in two size ranges, the possibility exists that two species were seen. The polar filament was up to 120 m long (av. 80 m). This parasite is much like both Nosema otiorrhynchi Weiser, 1951, and Nosema gasti (McLaughlin, 1969) n. comb., the latter an important pathogen of the boll weevil. This new parasite may play a significant role in mortalities of the white pine weevil. The desirability of exploring its potential as a biological control agent is suggested. 
1351011|A small quantity of Rhodamine WT dye was injected at the headwater of the Muddy Creek estuary and concentration of the dispersed dye was measured with a uniform time interval at a number of fixed locations in the lower portion of the estuary. By the use of the superposition principle of a linear system, the built-up concentration of the dye is found to range from 8 ppb at 1,900 feet downstream from the confluence of the north and south forks of Muddy Creek to 2 ppb near the Smithsonian Institution's pier in the Rhode River, provided that the dye is continuously injected at the headwaters at the rate of one pound per two tidal cycles.
1351268|Autozoids in the unilaminar part of a single colony of Schizoporella unicornis floridana were divided into three categories: (1) ordinary zoids, which were seen to have budded one daughter zoid; (2) bifurcating zoids, which budded two daughter zoids, and (3) twinned zoids, both budded from a single parent zoid. Genetically-dependent variables may be excluded because all zoids in one colony are recognized to be genetically identical. Zoid length and width at the distal end of each zoid were measured and presence or absence of avicularia was recorded. Zoid width is a function of the width of the bud which the zoid produced. Contrary to accepted belief, there is no "critical bud width" which determines whether or not a bud will produce one or two zoids. Bifurcating zoids tended to be wider than other zoids, but some ordinary zoids were wider than some bifurcating zoids. There is no observed relation between zoid length and zoid bifurcation; the correlation between a function of zoid volume and zoid bifurcation was less than that between width and bifurcation. Zoids possessing avicularia are significantly wider than those lacking them. Both the probability of bifurcation and the probability of avicularium possession increase with zoid width.
1350776| Tagelus plebeius were spawned and their larvae reared in the laboratory. Length measured from 90 to 170 , height from 75 to 161  and depth from 45 to 131  during pelagic stages. The hinge line was 63 to 75  long. Larvae had a distinctive series of irregular teeth at both ends of the hinge line. They can be distinguished from other bivalve larvae by the hinge, the relatively great height of the umbo and shoulders, the much longer anterior shoulder and end, and a dark shell margin. Larvae complete pelagic development at a smaller size than any other known bivalve veliger (155-170 ). 
1350437|The soft shell clam (Mya arenaria) can be a feasible commercial source for glycogen. The average yield of semi-purified glycogen was about 2.2% of the shucked weight of the clam.
1350565|The brackish water clam, Rangia cuneata, previously reported to occur from Virginia to the Gulf of Mexico, has been found in the Potomac River, Maryland, where they have been consumed for food. Current sampling of the population, compared with previous benthic surveys, indicates that the species has been established in the Potomac River only since about 1960. Introduction is believed to have been made along with seed oysters transplanted from the James River, Virginia.
1351161|The locomotor activity cycle of the American eel (Anguilla rostrata) was studied in a light-proof shelter. Measurements of activity were registered by a mechanical assembly triggered by the eel's movements. The results demonstrate that the eel possesses a locomotor cycle with greater activity in dark than in light and activity peaks in response to light changes at dawn and dusk. The latter is significantly higher than any of the peaks during the night or the one at dawn. The one at dawn is frequently not any higher than some peaks of activity occurring throughout the night. The presence of peaks at dawn and dusk appears to be a more generalized condition than the period of maximum activity. Both frequency and phase of the eel's cycle were shown to vary directly with the light conditions, and the cycle was totally obliterated under constant conditions of either light or dark. It is concluded that this locomotor activity cycle is essentially exogenous, under the control of the environmental light cycle, with the preference for dark activity being the only endogenous component.
1350402|Measurements of five young specimens of the sandbar shark Carcharhinus milberti, 613-747 mm in length, captured in Maryland's Chesapeake Bay in 1958-1959 are presented. Variation in fin sizes, body proportions and growth are compared with detailed literature records. These young specimens were shorter and stouter than known. Adult C. milberti, although reported sighted, have yet to be captured in the upper Chesapeake Bay, although the capture of these specimens indicates the bay is a spawning area.
1351240|Notropis bifrenatus, the bridle shiner, occurs from southeastern Canada along the Atlantic slope of the United States to the Neuse River drainage in North Carolina. First records from the Rappahannock, York, James, Chowan, and Neuse drainages are documented. This species inhabits lentic and moderate to low gradient lotic situations. Reports of its capture in waters of low salinity are only from the southern portion of its range. This species apparently dispersed into northern sectors of its range relatively early during glacial recession. Its distribution on Long Island is evidence of its occupation during Wisconsin glaciation of an area that is now part of the continental shelf. Dispersal through the Chesapeake Bay region and southward was probaly via extended main rivers during late Pleistocene, stream capture, and lateral meanders. Analyses of certain meristic characters indicate an absence of significant geographic variation with the exception of lateral line pore development. Descriptions of nuptial tuberculation, pharyngeal arch, dorsal fin position, and lateralis system pores and canals are given.
1350395|Storm surges of hurricanes passing west of Chesapeake Bay are compared to surges generated by hurricanes passing east of the bay. The surges of each type storm are quite different, as the western storms cause highest surges in the northern portion of the bay and the eastern storms produce highest surges in the southern portion.
1350496|Fluoride uptake was studied in the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun, in reference to a potential source of pollution in the Pamlico River estuary, North Carolina. Special attention was given to fluoride accumulation in crab tissues and to the effect of fluoride on crab growth. At 20 ppm fluoride in the water, the growth increment of crabs decreased 4.5% per molt. The cumulative effect over a 20-molt life cycle of a typical blue crab would be a 52% reduction in final average size. Under these conditions, maximum adult crab carapace width would decrease from 204 mm to 98 mm. Fluoride concentrations higher than 20 ppm had an even greater inhibitory effect on growth. Fluoride uptake rates were studied in exoskeleton, gill, hepatopancreas, and muscle tissues. Concentration of this ion in crabs from natural, unpolluted water (0.5-1.5 ppm F<sup>-</sup>) averaged 298 ppm in the exoskeleton, 253 ppm in the gills, 22 ppm in the hepatopancreas, and 10 ppm in the muscles on a dry weight basis. Crabs were maintained, and tissue analyses were made, for up to 90 days at 20 and 100 ppm, 22 days at 200 ppm, and 70 days at 400 ppm fluoride. The tissues accumulated significant amounts of fluoride at all experimental water fluoride levels. Additional tests were conducted on 30-day uptake rates at 0.5, 2, 8, 32, and 128 ppm fluoride. Significant accumulation occurred in all tissues at 8, 32, and 128 ppm fluoride in the water, while at 2 ppm the tissue fluoride content remained basically unchanged. The samples from the 0.5 ppm fluoride environment, at the end of the 30-day experiment, contained less fluoride than the control crabs. Rates of fluoride release from tissues were also determined for up to 20 days in fluoride-free water following the initial 30 days in fluoridated water. All tissues released fluoride readily, and most returned to near-normal tissue levels in the 20-day period. Of the tissues studied, the muscles are the most important to man since this is the portion of the crab most often consumed. The uptake data at 20 ppm fluoride in the water showed that the accumulation of fluoride in muscle tissue was approximately 50 ppm after a 90-day exposure period. Since this represents fluoride concentration on a dry weight basis, and crab muscle loses about 75% of its weight when dried, these fluoride levels must be reduced by 75% to obtain wet weight data. Calculations based on 12.5 ppm on a wet weight basis show that approximately 5.7 mg of fluoride per pound of crab meat can be expected if the crabs are subjected to 20 ppm fluoride in the water for as long as 90 days. Fluoride concentrations higher than 20 ppm in the water resulted in a much greater accumulation of this ion in the dried muscle samples (up to 600 ppm in water containing 400 ppm F<sup>-</sup>). This shows that crab muscle tissue can accumulate enough fluoride to present a potential public health problem.
1350879|Data were obtained on survival and growth rates of 16 populations of Virginia pine, Pinus virginiana, orginating from different geographic regions, ranging from Pennsylvania to Alabama. The trees were grown 2 years in a Maryland nursery and 14 years in a plantation in Hamilton County, Tennessee. Differences in survival were small, and the mortality rates were not correlated to either the size of trees or the elevation of their provenance. Heights of different populations ranged from about 24 to 30 feet, and diameters from 5 to 7 inches. Most rapidly growing strains were the local population from Anderson County, Tennessee, and four populations from the Chesapeake Bay region-coastal plains of Maryland and Delaware. Sixteen-year heights in Tennessee were strongly correlated with 7-year heights of similar populations planted in Maryland's Piedmont Plateau (r = .60) and Maryland's coastal plain (r = .74).
1350620|Bottle collectors were placed in the Tred Avon River, Maryland, during 1961, 1962, and 1963, to obtain information on the setting of bivalves. The bottle collector was an economical and efficient tool for obtaining and studying newly metamorphosed invertebrates in shallow estuarine waters. Seven bivalve species were caught on or in these bottles and the seasonal setting patterns of five species were observed. Of these species, Mya arenaria and Macoma balthica appeared to have dual spawning cycles each year, while Brachidontes recurvus, Macoma phenax, and Mulinia lateralis had a single annual spawning cycle.
1350978|Three transferrin phenotypes observed in the serum of striped bass, Morone saxatilis, are described genetically as representing two alleles at a single locus. The distribution of the phenotypes Tf A, Tf B and Tf AB did not differ significantly among samples collected from the Hudson River, suggesting that all fish sampled were of one homogeneous population.
1350891|The seasonal dynamics of Mn, Fe, Zn, Cu and Cd were investigated in a genetically similar population of hatchery-reared American oysters, Crassostrea virginica, maintained in plastic trays in the Rhode River, a tributary of the Chesapeake Bay. Samples were collected monthly from September, 1971 through May, 1973. Annual cycles resulting in the turnover of large portions of the body burden were observed for all metals studied. Subtly different patterns of metal dynamics were observed as a result of the reduction in biological variations realized by employing genetically similar oysters. Metals are grouped into two classes according to their dynamics; (1) Mn and Fe concentrations in soft tissues are significantly correlated with shell deposition. A high rate of Mn turnover in soft tissues (approximately 2 times the body burden per day) occurs during the shell growth season. (2) Zn and Cu concentrations are not correlated with shell growth. Zn and Cu body burdens exhibit a gradual increase during the spring and early summer followed by a rapid loss during August-September in which 33% of the Zn and 50% of the Cu is lost in less than 4 weeks. Cd behavior is similar to Zn and Cu with a 50% reduction in body burden during an 11 week period between July and October.
1350525|Distribution, growth, and predation level data for juvenile white mullet (Mugil curema Valenciennes) were obtained in 1965 by shallow water seine hauls during an exploratory survey of oceanside embayments of Virginia's eastern shore peninsula. Average minimum growth was 17.5 mm fork length per half-month period, June through September. Growth equations fitted with an analog computer are: W<sub> t</sub>=615(1- e<sup>-0.78 t</sup>)<sup>3</sup> L<sub> t</sub>=360(1- e<sup>-0.78( t+0.06)</sup>) Fork lengths are in mm and weights are in grams. Highest predation incidence, 49%, was observed in late September inlet collections. Literature data implies juvenile white mullet, that occur north of North Carolina, have a southern origin.
1350554|Information on growth rate, age composition, and fecundity of rosyside dace was obtained from a sample of 212 fish collected from April to August 1970 from the North Branch of Jennings Run, Potomac River drainage. Total lengths ranged from 46 to 94 mm and average weights ranged from 1.4 g (40-49 mm length class) to 10.4 g (90-99 mm length class). Ages of rosyside dace included age groups I to IV. Sexual maturity was attained at about 53 mm and age I for both sexes. The spawning season lasted from early May until late June. The mean diameter of eggs during the spawning season ranged from 1.05 mm in May to 1.20 mm in June. Fecundity ranged from 139 (56-59 mm length class) to 802 (90-95 mm length class). There was a high correlation between fecundity and length and weight of dace, but a low correlation between fecundity and age and weight of ovaries.
1350514|The physical and biological characteristics of five stations in and near a tidal creek were studied for 18 months. Tidal creeks and tidal rivers are differentiated and defined. Diel fluctuations of dissolved oxygen and temperature were greatest and tidal-induced salinity oscillations the least at the headwaters of the creek. Small salinity oscillations promoted a high overall diversity of fishes at the headwaters of the creek, even though few fish species maintained permanent populations there. Juvenile fishes were abundant in the summer and fall. Extreme temperature and low dissolved oxygen levels prompted a migration of fishes from these areas in late summer. Permanent fish populations were found at the mouth of the creek and in an adjacent tidal river.
1350754|The infauna of Zostera beds in the Chesapeake Bay-York River estuary and Chincoteague Bay was sampled in March and July 1970 using a corer. Sediments were fine sand or very fine sand. Sorting of sediments varied from poorly sorted to moderately well-sorted and appeared to be positively correlated with the density of Zostera at the respective stations. A total of 117 macroinvertebrate taxa was collected. Species number decreased both up the estuary and seasonally from March to July. Movement of episaunal species from the sediments where they occur in winter months when Zostera is scarce, to the leaves in summer accounted partly for this seasonal difference. This seasonal decrease was not noted at the station farthest up-estuary where Zostera was scarce all year. Faunal similarity of the areas sampled, as measured by three indices, indicates that the infauna of most Zostera beds in the Chesapeake Bay area is similar, except at the up-estuary limits of Zostera distribution. Macrofaunal density was higher than that of any other benthic habitat in the Chesapeake Bay.
1351001|Five specimens of this sea turtle, a species infrequently recorded from Maryland and Virginia estuarine waters, were available for study. Morphometric and meristic data do not vary greatly from published accounts. Blue crabs were found in the stomach contents of one specimen from the Bay.
1351358|The presence of distinct mitotic figures in regenerating mantle epithelium of C. virginica is reported. The relative abundance of metaphase and telophase stages among the division figures observed suggests that a mitotic rhythm occurs in the mantle epithelium. It is believed that this is the first written report of epithelial mitosis in oysters.
1351054|Sampling of larval fishes in the Cape Fear River Estuary and at the Brunswick Steam Electric Plant intake and discharge structures, near Southport, North Carolina, yielded 24 metamorphic tarpon, Megalops atlantica, larvae during 1973-74. These larvae were probably spawned somewhere off or to the south of Cape Fear from April or May to September. All larvae taken in the river were collected near the bottom at or just after low tide, while most of those caught in tidal creeks were near the surface, but also were caught near the time of low tide. A possible explanation for this difference is the development of air-breathing in the shrinking larvae. Larvae appear to be more active at night and may thereby avoid high daytime predation.
1350438|Autopsies of two striped bass, Roccus saxatilis, found dead in two widely separated New Jersey estuaries, revealed a striped cusk-eel, Rissola marginata, in the body cavity of each of them. The body cavity was full of blood. It was tentatively concluded that the coelom was entered through the wall of the alimentary canal, possibly through the bile ducts and liver. Literature is cited which indicates that the cusk eel's tail is an efficient burrowing organ.
1350339|The sessile or polyp stage of Chrysaora quinquecirrha, the sea nettle, is likely to be found in Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries on the hard substrates wherever salinities from 7 to 20% occur. From experimental studies in field and laboratory, we found that the planulae, larval stage of the sea nettle, set on oyster shells which were placed off the CBL pier and in St. John Creek; that planulae set more frequently on the underside of hard objects than on the upper surface; and that polyps were found on about 40% of these shells when examined after removal from the water in late autumm. Temperature tolerance experiments showed that the death of polyps and cysts occurred when the temperature was raised above 34 to 36 C. Polyps usually but not always encyst when the temperature falls below 2 to 4 C. Polyps begin to strobilate producing ephyrae at 18 to 19 C in St. John Creek. The first ephyra was collected on May 18, 1966 and the last one on August 26, when the water temperature was 27 C. The last medusa was caught there on August 29. Experimental feeding of ephyrae with strained ctenophores kept them alive as long as 49 days and they grew into normal jellyfish. However, the rate of growth under laboratory conditions was only about 0.2 mm in diameter per day, whereas the medusae in St. John Creek increased in size from a range of 1 to 3 mm on May 19 to as much as 171 mm on June 20 (33 days), indicating a maximum increment of about 5.1 mm in diameter per day. A sea slug of the genus Coryphella was found feeding voraciously on Chrysaora polyps. The tiny sea anemone, Diadumene leucolema (Verrill) actively feeds on ephyrae. Chrysaora medusae feed on the sea walnuts Mnemiopsis leidyi A. Agassiz or ctenophores in the laboratory. Biological observations were made on the larval and polyp stages of the winter jelly fish Cyanea capillata (Linnaeus). We experimented with meat tenderizers, containing proteolytic enzymes, and found that when the substances were applied to skin recently stung by Chrysaora medusae, then moistened with water, the burning sensation and pain were quickly relieved.
1351068|Bay scallops containing adult female pea crabs are slightly smaller than noninfected scallops. Infected scallops tend to weigh less than noninfected of the same size. The growth of 3 size groups of infected and noninfected scallops was measured over a 3 month period and infected scallops grew less than noninfected.
1351058| Sand shrimp Crangon septemspinosa were collected during monthly trawl surveys of the Chesapeake Bay and York River estuary from January 1971 to April 1972. Over 9000 shrimp were captured within wide ranges of temperature (0.5-24.1 C), salinity (10.3-31.1) and dissolved oxygen concentration (2.1-12.7 mg/liter). Relative abundanceof of shrimp in the channels varied seasonally. Maximum concentrations occurred in winter when bottom water temperatures were between 5 C and 11C. The concentration of shrimp was reduced in spring when the temperature exceeded 15 C. Salinity limited the upstream penetration of the species. Occasionally shrimp were found in salinities as low as 10-12, but they were usually collected when salinities exceeded 16. Low levels of dissolved oxygen concentration (2-5 mg/liter) in summer coincided with reduced catches and absence of shrimp. Males (22-61 mm, total length) comprised less than 30% of the catch in 85% of the samples. Twenty-five percent of the samples consisted entirely of females (26-76 mm). Ovigerous females (31-78 mm) were the most numerous entity from January through June. No juveniles were taken in these collections. 
1350698|The influence of rapid temperature change on the swimming performance of three warmwater fishes was considered. Juvenile largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides), spotfin shiners (Notropis spilopterus), and channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) collected in 27-31 C ambient lake water were immediately exposed to temperatures ranging from 15 to 35 C at 5 C intervals for 14-20 hours before testing. Exposure to rapid changes in temperature resulted in decreased swimming performance of each species for temperatures other than ambient.
1351113|Seventeen species of opisthobranchs from Chesapeake Bay were studied, 4 Cephalaspidea, 6 Ascoglossa, 5 Doridoidea, and 2 Eolidoidea. The radula of "Acteon" punctostriatus from Chesapeake Bay shows that the species comes under Rictaxis Dall, 1871, hence the species called punctostriatus from Brazil, a true Acteon, receives a new name, Acteon pelecais. Two species of Haminoea, distinguished by a small cylindrical shell, H. succinea, and a larger ovoid shell, H. solitaria, have consistent anatomical features. The generic name of Stiliger has to be replaced by Ercolania due to Baba & Hamatani's (1970a) redescription of Stiliger ornatus. Alderia harvardiensis is identical with A. modesta which occurs in Finland, California, and Brazil. Hermaea cruciata is redescribed. It differs from H. coirala from Brazil. The substitution of Cargoa for Okenia is unnecessary. Cratena kaoruae Marcus, 1957, from Brazil is a synonym of C. pilata. Tenellia pallida is a junior synonym of T. adspersa (Nordmann, 1845).
1350803| Blueback herring (Alosa aestivalis), American shad (Alosa sapidissima), and striped bass (Morone saxatilis) larvae from the Chesapeake Bay region were subjected in the laboratory to time-excess temperature histories typical of those experienced by organisms entrained by power plants with a variety of design and operating criteria. The maximum excess temperature ranged from 7 to 20C above the base temperature (the average surface water temperature on the spawning grounds); the time of exposure to a maximum excess temperature from 4 to 60 minutes; and the period of cooling to the final temperature from 60 to 300 minutes. An excess temperature of 20C resulted in virtually total mortality of larvae of all three species. Striped bass larvae were the most tolerant of the three species and could withstand excess temperatures of up to 10C with no significant increase in mortality. The response patterns of the other two species were more complicated. 
1351376|A specimen of the summer flounder, Paralichthys dentatus, exhibiting incomplete ambicoloration was recently caught off North Carolina. The capture of this fish supports the suggestion that identical genetic factors or environmental combinations may cause the phenomenon.
1350794|This paper designates a new subspecies of the pickerel frog, Rana palustris. Specimens from the coastal plain of North Carolina were compared with specimens from other parts of the Atlantic Coastal Plain, the Piedmont Plateau and the Appalachian Mountains and were found subspecifically distinct. Characters differing to subspecific levels were: degree of ventral mottling, patterns between the dorsolateral folds and pigmentation of the vomerine teeth.
1350367|Frequency data of hard clams caught by patent tongs in December, 1963 and December, 1972 were analyzed by the Kolmogorov-Smirnov two-sample test. The data do not support the contention that catch declined in the 9-year interim.
1351167|Detached masses of the green alga Ulva, or sea lettuce, are often concentrated in shallow water along shorelines, where they decompose. Products of decomposition cause a condition termed "milky water" characterized by a nearly opaque cream color, low oxygen concentrations, and formation of hydrogen sulfide. These conditions are potentially lethal to marine animals, and create unpleasant odors of hydrogen sulfide which may have detrimental chemical activity with some paint pigments.
1350933| Predation of the eggs of the spotted salamander by leeches is illustrated by a photograph for the first time. Macrobdella was observed to penetrate and mechanically damage a gelatinous mass of salamander eggs in a small Coastal Plain pond in Maryland. Ingestion was ascertained by the discovery of egg mass particles in the stomach of a 4 inch leech. 
1350910|The operation of a prototype (24-bushel capacity) depuration plant for the bacteriological cleansing of oysters was evaluated under prevailing Gulf Coast environmental conditions. Results indicated that with proper plant location and basic engineering design of the system, commercial depuration of shellfish is a feasible method for purifying oysters harvested from restricted waters. Eight trials were conducted over a 15-month period to cover seasonal changes. The depuration tank design permitted three pallets, each holding 16 baskets of one-half bushel capacity, to be stacked in the tank. A fecal coliform MPN of 130 or less/100 g for depurated oysters was established as the maximum level of acceptability for a 72 hour period of depuration. Physical parameters of the sea water which were measured included salinity, temperature, turbidity, pH, and dissolved oxygen. Determinations of the percent wet/dry weight and percent glycogen of depurated oyster meats revealed no adverse effect on quality.
1351098|The distribution of manganese, iron, and zinc in sediments, water, and in six species of polychaetous worms is described for the Newport River estuary near Beaufort, North Carolina. Concentrations of manganese, iron, and zinc in 0.1 N HCl extracts of sediment samples collected monthly from three stations for 2 years varied with element, location, time, and sediment type. At each station, iron was the most abundant element present in the 0.1 N HCl extracts and zinc was the least abundant. The concentrations of all three elements in the sediments decreased in a seaward direction. There were definite temporal fluctuations in the concentration of these metals in the sediment, although no seasonal trend was evident. In addition, muddy sediments contained higher concentrations of trace metals than sandy sediments. Concentrations of manganese and iron in the water also decreased in a seaward direction, although concentrations of zinc remained relatively constant. Except for zinc at one station, at least 30% of the total amount of manganese, iron, and zinc in unfiltered water samples could not be measured by standard spectrophotometric techniques without prior treatment with acid. The relative order of enrichment of trace metals in sediment when compared with water was zinc > iron > manganese. Concentrations of these elements varied in six species of polychaetous worms. We did not observe any intraspecific differences in the concentrations of trace metals in three species of worms, however, that were collected from two stations which had substantially different concentrations of trace metal in the sediment. This finding suggests that either these organisms may be able to regulate their trace metal content or that much of the metal associated with the sediment is in a chemical form which is unacceptable to them. The order of enrichment of trace metals in polychaetes relative to sediment and water was zinc > iron > manganese.
1350808|Livers from bluefish, tilefish and tautog collected during the summer of 1971 off the New Jersey coast were analyzed for Cd, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, and Zn by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Liver ash from male and female tautog contained decreasing concentrations of Ni with increasing body length. Smaller males also contained greater levels of Cr and Cu in liver than larger tautogs. Larger tilefish contained proportionately more Cd, Cu, and Fe in liver than smaller tilefish. Decreasing levels of Mn and Zn with body length were apparent only for females. Livers from larger male bluefish were associated with higher concentrations of Fe than those from smaller males, while those from larger females contained lower concentrations of Cr than those from smaller females. The data suggest that future comparisons for trace metals which vary as a function of size be made only among fish of the same length.
1350571|An isolated population of the boring sulfur sponge, Cliona celata, was found to include many large specimens. The distribution of these sponges was associated with the occurrence of bottom sediments favorable for settling and growth. It was concluded that the large size and successful colonization of the sponges was the result of their vigor and rapid growth, as well as certain physical features of the study area. These physical features promoted growth by maintaining optimal salinities, excluding competitors, retaining larvae and protecting the sponges from natural and man-made destructive forces. Estimated growth rates, age determination, and a symbiotic relationship were also discussed.
1350623|Samples of three year-classes of the soft-shelled clam, Mya arenaria, were dredged at approximately two-week intervals from the mouth of the Patuxent River, Maryland. Changes in gonadal development were noted from histologically prepared sections of male and female clams. Two separate periods of gametogenesis were noted. More gametes are formed during the autumn or primary period of maturation than during the spring or secondary period. Clams as small as 25 mm in shell length were found to contain mature gametes. Follicle cell inclusions and other cells observed in the gonad are discussed along with their seasonal changes.
1351211|Densities of postlarval Penaeus species, Trachypeneus constrictus, Acetes americanus carolinae, and Lucifer faxoni are discussed for surface plankton samples taken at a series of estuarial stations maintained for up to 10 years. Semiquantitative data for Penaeus show frequency distributions of log-normal type. Densities vary among years, within years in accord with predictable recruitment seasons, and among localities in expected relationship to habitat. In general, samples with highest densities were from areas near the sea. Some inland areas with presumably suitable salinity-temperature regimes may lie beyond the zone of effective tidal transport for these shrimps. Species not belonging to Penaeus are warm-weather transients penetrating the estuarial system as conditions permit.
1351315|The following equations describe the length (L), weight (W), and girth (G) relations for 178 toadfish, Opsanus tau (Linnaeus), collected in the York River, Virginia: G = -4.604 + 0.801 L; log W = -5.223 + 3.223 log L; log W = -4.239 + 2.936 log G. Maximum length for males (367 mm) and females (347 mm) exceeded those previously reported for Chesapeake Bay. Females >250 mm were rare. The sex ratio was not significantly different from unity.
1351126| Acartia tonsa Dana was found to be the most abundant copepod during 7 months of the year in a 10-mile segment of the Patuxent River estuary. Densities up to 100,000 copepods per cubic meter were observed during the warmer months, and as low as 1,500 during the colder months. The summer population was composed mainly of immature stages and the winter population mainly of adults. Production was calculated by dividing population biomass by turnover times. Turnover times were calculated from instantaneous death rates of nauplii and copepodids. Instantaneous death rates were estimated from observed population age structures in the field and development times in containers of estuary water. Growth of A. tonsa from egg to egg required 7, 9, and 13 days at 25.5 C, 22.4 C, and 15.5 C respectively. Production for a 2-month summer period was estimated to be 2.51 to 2.77 mg/ m<sup>3</sup> hr. Assuming an average depth of 3 m for the study area, production is 1.61 to 1.78 lb/acre day. In consideration of the possible sources of error the estimates of production are probably somewhat conservative. At least half of the planktonic primary production in the Patuxent estuary is consumed by A. tonsa during the summer months. Production of A. tonsa in the Patuxent estuary compares favorably with the production of herbivorous fish in fertilized ponds. 
1351242| Seven-year-old hybrids of Pinus rigida  P. taeda in southern and central Maryland grew either as rapidly as P. taeda or were intermediate between the slower growing P. rigida and the faster growing P. taeda. In Maryland's coldest section, Garrett County, the hybrids as well as P. rigida grew about 30 percent faster than P. taeda. Survival was outstanding in all geographic regions, and it was not different among the pines studied. The hybrids and P. rigida had significantly shorter leaves than P. taeda, and both were less susceptible to leaning caused by wet snow. No differences were observed among the pines studied in their susceptibility to injury by Ryacionia frustrana (Nantucket pine tip moth). 
1351065|Species diversity of benthic macro-organisms as measured by Shannon's formula was highest on the outer continental shelf. Benthic diversity was higher in polyhaline zones of estuaries than on the shallow shelf and decreased sharply into the mesohaline zone, declining to the lowest in oligohaline zones. In addition to environmental stability and salinity regime, sediment grain size and pollution also affect species diversity. Analysis of the components of informational diversity, species richness and equitability, indicates that the richness component accounts for most of the observed pattern, although both components are important to within-habitat differences.
1351375|A turtle barnacle, Chelonibia patula patula (Ranzani) of unusually large size was found on a large female blue crab in Delaware Bay in September, 1954. This appears to be the largest known specimen of C. p. patula. The crab carapace was also fouled with the bryozoan, Alcyonidium polyoum (Hassall), and the hydroid, Hydractinia echinata (Fleming). On the basis of established criteria for judging the spawning history of adult female blue crabs, it is inferred that the host crab had spawned two or more times, was at least 25 or 26 months old at time of capture, and that the large barnacle was at least one year of age.
1351272|Ctenophores and jellyfish are most difficult marine invertebrates to maintain in artificial aquaria. They require circulating water to distribute a constant supply of live food and to disperse mucus and slime which these animals produce in abundance. They are easily trapped in filter intakes and overflow tubes, and they can be damaged or destroyed in the turbulence produced by air stones. Two practical and inexpensive aquarium systems designed specifically to overcome these problems are described-one for the hatching and semi-automatic harvesting of large quantities of brine shrimp larvae, and a second for the long term maintenance of ctenophores and jellyfish.
1350603|Pulsation rate of Chrysaora quinquecirrha medusae was inversely and linearly related to bell diameter over the natural temperature range (15-32 C) of this life history stage of the sea nettle in the upper Chesapeake Bay. At unnatural, elevated temperatures this relationship was disrupted. Pulsation rates generally increased with temperature increase from 15 C to 30 C and then decreased at higher temperatures. The rate-temperature curve for acclimated medusae was similar in shape (increase and decrease in pulsation rate with temperature change) to rate-temperature curves reported for warm water medusae; its shape was different from those reported for cold water medusae. Acclimation of pulsation rate to changed temperature was faster than acclimation of upper lethal temperature, although both were measured in hours. Upper lethal temperatures measured over 20-30 C were directly related to acclimation temperature and were similar to those reported for sea nettle polyps (34-35 C). Medusae were more sensitive than polyps to cold, with death occurring at 10 C. Thermal discharges into the upper Chesapeake Bay which raise water temperature above 30 C are probably stressful to sea nettle medusae. Temperatures above 38 C could be lethal in a few minutes.
1351050|Seasonal fluctuations in zooplankton abundance between July 1973 and July 1974 showed a clear peak in total copepods and rotifers in February-March, and a less pronounced peak in July-August. Standing crop and production estimates for the two dominant copepods, Acartia tonsa and Eurytemora affinis, revealed that the February-March peak was primarily E. affinis and sustained far higher biomass (218.6 mg/ m<sup>3</sup>) and production (20.5 mg/ m<sup>3</sup>. day) than did the August peak of A. tonsa (biomass 16.3 mg/ m<sup>3</sup>, production 7.5 mg/ m<sup>3</sup>. day). The Rhode River has low standing crop and production of copepods relative to the much larger Patuxent estuary. These results are consistent with the theory of Williams et al. (1968) that shallow embayments have lower standing crops; however, the statistical basis for their statement is shown to be spurious.
1350499|Occurrence of postmetamorphal bivalves known to have swimming ability is seasonally predictable in surface meroplankton in nocturnally flooding tidal currents near inlets inside the barrier islands of North Carolina. Samples from three stations-Institute of Marine Sciences pier near Beaufort Inlet, inside Drum Inlet 20 mi N E of Cape Lookout, and inside Lockwoods Folly Inlet 10 mi W of Cape Fear River-were comparable. Ensis directus occurred abundantly from December to June at each of the stations; Tagelus divisus abundantly from May to September and sparsely in December at the Institute pier, and sparsely also at Lockwoods Folly Inlet in September; Solemya velum regularly from April to August at the Institute pier, rarely at Drum Inlet; and Solen viridis sparsely in midsummer at the Institute pier. Though these species are known to swim, no regularly recorded occurrence has ever been documented. A set of non-swimming molluscan species present in the samples were perhaps eroded from nearby source beds by strong currents. At Drum Inlet station Donax variabilis occurred regularly during summer-fall, and Petricola pholadiformis during winter-spring. At Lockwoods Folly Inlet station Spisula raveneli occurred regularly during spring-summer. Other species were rare. Seasonal occurrence of these species in the plankton samples remains unexplained.
1350412|A total of 94 larvae of menhaden, Brevoortia tyrannus, ranging from 7 to 29 mm, were taken on plankton cruises in southern Chesapeake Bay and off the Virginia coast during months from November to April in 1959 and 1960. Although more abundant at inshore stations, larvae were collected as far as 40 miles offshore. The largest larvae were captured at stations in Chesapeake Bay and the smallest at stations most distant from shore. The progressive decrease in size of larvae with increased distance from shore and the absence of eggs from samples suggest that spawning had occurred more than 40 miles offshore. Included in catches were 19 larvae that appeared to have been dead when collected.
1351127|The food habits (1,773 individuals) and the distribution (2,056 individuals) of 9 families, 26 genera, and 32 species of fishes, were determined for Tuckahoe Creek, a lower piedmont tributary of the James River, Virginia. These species represent 41% of the freshwater fishes known for the entire river basin. Five species accounted for 69% of the collection: Etheostoma nigrum (20%), Lepomis macrochirus (18%), Hybopsis leptocephala (15%), Notropis cornutus (11%), and Aphredoderus sayanus (5%). Within the upper two-thirds of the creek there was a trend for the number of species to increase in a downstream direction. Stomach contents of 273 L. macrochirus were mainly insects (65%) and crustaceans (29%). Tendipedids and copepods were particularly important food items although the bluegill consumed a wide variety of animal forms. The selection was a probable reflection of the general availability of potential food. Young fish (0 and 1 age-groups) fed more often on microcrustaceans and dipteran larvae while older fish consumed a higher percentage of coleopterans and hymenopterans. Analysis of stomach contents of other centrarchids showed significant differences. Hemipterans dominated the diet of Centrarchus macropterus and were important food items for Chaenobryttus gulosus. Entomostracans formed the bulk of the diet of Enneacanthus gloriosus and decapods were eaten primarily by C. gulosus. The largest percentage of coleopterans was taken by Lepomis auritus. The cyprinids were represented by all types of feeders. Notropis cornutus was a true omnivore (feeding equally on plant and animal matter) and H. leptocephala selected a diet primarily of plant material. Dipteran larvae dominated the diet of the percid, E. nigrum (78% of total items) and the pirate perch, A. sayanus (53%). Gambusia affinis fed mainly on Hemiptera (34%). The catostomids consumed predominantly microscopic plants. Specimens of Esox niger less than 74 mm SL ate insects more often (48% as opposed to 16% in larger fish), whereas larger specimens fed on fishes (63% as opposed to 30% in the smaller forms).
1351039| Nematocysts were examined in specimens of the coronate scyphomedusa Linuche unguiculata collected off the North Carolina coast. The cnidome consisted of isorhizas and heterotrichous microbasic euryteles. The isorhizas were all of the a-isorhiza variety; euryteles were present in small and large size classes. Changes in the classification of scyphozoan nematocysts are discussed, and the terms "a" atrich, "A" atrich and "" atrich are changed respectively to a-isorhiza, A-isorhiza and -isorhiza. 
1350547|Newly-hatched larvae of the striped blenny (Chasmodes bosquianus), the naked goby (Gobiosoma bosci), and the skilletfish (Gobiesox strumosus) were exposed for 24 hours to varying concentrations of dissolved oxygen obtained by purging York River water with pre-purified grade nitrogen. The experimental apparatus is described. The striped blennies and the naked gobies had median tolerance limits ( TL<sub>50</sub>), the oxygen concentrations at which 50% of the larvae would be expected to die after 24 hours, of 2.50 mg/l (0.95 C. L.: 2.05 TL<sub>50</sub> 3.05) and 1.30 mg/l (0.95 C. L.: 1.09 TL<sub>50</sub> 1.54) respectively. The TL<sub>50</sub> was not calculated for the skilletfish but apparently lies between 0.72 mg/1 and 1.23 mg/1.
1350790|In this study, eggs and larvae of the yellow perch, Perca flavescens, were reared in the laboratory from fertilization to postlarval stages. Fish were sampled at intervals and changes in morphology, anatomy, and general characteristics were described and illustrated. Larvae raised in outdoor hatchery ponds were brought into the laboratory for comparison and to complete developmental descriptions up to the young stages. Eggs of the yellow perch are extruded in adhesive strands, and in the Chesapeake Bay these strands are found in the shallow, upper reaches of many major tributaries in March and April. Within the first few minutes after fertilization, the eggs "water harden" and expand. Eggs fertilized in this study reached a mean diameter of 2.26 mm; the mean diameter of the yolk was 1.28 mm and the oil droplet was 0.64 mm. Changes in the egg from fertilization through hatching do not deviate widely from known fish embryology. The most distinctive character of the egg is its thick, elastic case containing minute radial striations. Illustrations of important embryological stages allow easy understanding of the progression in development. Hatching occurs in 27 days at temperatures from 8.5-12.0C. This incubation period is long when compared to the hatching time of other common estuarine fish. In this study prolarvae were 5.5-6.0 mm T. L. at hatching. Early prolarvae have an undifferentiated continuous finfold, pigmented eyes, and a series of 15-20 pigment spots along the ventral surface of the tail. The mouth is fully developed at the end of the prolarval stage and although vestiges of yolk remain, active feeding is initiated. In postlarvae, pigmentation increases over the body, the head becomes more flattened, and a few teeth protrude from the maxillary. Fin formation starts at approximately 11 mm T. L. with differentiation of the basal portion of the caudal fin. The sequence of fin development is: pectorals (within the egg); caudal; anal, second dorsal, some spines of the first dorsal; pelvics; and, finally, the remaining first dorsal spines. Yellow perch are transformed from the larval stages at approximately 13 mm T. L. when all fins are formed. However, ray elements within the fins are incomplete until the fish reach 21 to 27 mm T. L. At this size the first soft ray of the anal transforms into a second spine, changing the formula from I, 8-9 to II, 7-8. The formation of distinct body bands begins when the young are about 20 mm T. L. and this pigmentation continues until the vertical bands become a distinct species characteristic. Morphometry, and meristics assume adult proportion near the end of the young stage. Morphometric changes in head length, body depth, and snout-to-vent length are compared. The ossification of a young specimen 17.0 mm T. L., which was cleared and stained with Alizarin red-S, is illustrated. Hebits of cultured fish are briefly mentioned. There was an almost complete lack of feeding success in yellow perch larval stages. Comparison is made with other work on the yellow perch in the U. S.; excepting hatching size, head contours, and some pigmentation, little difference is noted. Comparison of this study with work from Europe encourages the theory that Perca flavescens and Percafluviatilis may be conspecific.
1350524|The autocorrelation structure of menhaden catch data are examined, and a second order autoregressive model is applied for prediction of menhaden catch. The model is useful for year ahead predictions of catch, and the model enables calculation of confidence intervals or error bounds.
1351293|The accessory genital glands of Opsanus tau are large fan-shaped organs lying in the posterior region of the abdominal cavity. Four distinct parts on each side can be recognized grossly and microscopically by virtue of morphology, color, secretion granules, and vascularity. All four parts have separate collecting ducts which drain into the paired spermatic ducts as they course posteriorly to exit into the cloaca via a grooved genital papilla. Seasonal changes in the gross and microscopic anatomy of the accessory glands are described.
1350604|Techniques of terrestrial soil mechanics, modified to include in situ sampling using SCUBA gear, have shown differences in sediment mass properties between various reaches of the York River, a coastal plain estuary of southeastern Virginia, which are interpreted as delineating areas of sediment removal and deposition within the estuary. Sediments found in the upper and lower portions of the estuary are similar in their mass properties. Both are "silty clays" and possess low unit weight and very high moisture content. The middle estuary contains "silty clays" possessing high unit weight and lower moisture content. Shearing strength is lowest in the upper estuary, slightly greater in the middle reaches, and much greater in the lower estuary. Deposition is believed to be proceeding rapidly in both upper and lower estuarine areas. The middle estuary appears to be a surface of sedimentary bypassing. Sediment shearing strength must be considered when planning channel modifications. Current velocities which impose bottom shear stresses in excess of measured shear strength will initiate scouring. Design criteria should include acceptable velocities for given reaches of rivers undergoing modifications, given a knowledge of mass property distributions.
1350829|The recently established isopod species, Cyathura polita, appears to be widely distributed in Chesapeake Bay. Ecological and physiological studies of this estuarine animal should yield valuable information, particularly its role as food for fishes.
1350436|Recognizable mineral grains constituted 2 to 15% of the suspended matter in surface waters collected in June 1965 from Chesapeake Bay and from the offshore area between Cape Henry and Cape Hatteras. In the upper bay, the mineral grain size became progressively finer in the down-bay direction. Mineral size distributions in the middle and lower bay showed little relation to those in either the upper bay or the offshore waters. Most of the mineral grains suspended in the offshore waters (considered on a weight basis) seemed to be derived from sources other than the bay effluent.
1351038|Blue mussels, Mytilus edulis, were collected from eight sites near Woods Hole, Massachusetts and examined for presence of the symbiont, Pinnotheres maculatus. Mussels (550) from 6 intertidal areas contained 2 crabs. Mussels (421) from 2 subtidal areas contained 238 crabs. Only 1% of mussels growing near the surface on a piling contained crabs, while those from depths of 10 feet and below were highly infected.
1350819|A screen is described which successfully excludes jellyfish and ctenophores from Clarke-Bumpus plankton samples. Possible avoidance by copepods of the plankton sampler because of the screen was tested for by analysis of variance of paired tows made with and without the screen. Avoidance could not be demonstrated.
1350918|Osprey reproductive success on the Potomac River during 1970 is described. Thirty-five percent of the accessible active nests fledged young and only 0.70 young were fledged per active nest. Egg failure was the major cause of poor success. Reproduction was below that considered normal for a stable population.
1350498| The larvae of the spider crab Libinia dubia were reared in the laboratory from hatching to the first crab stage. Two zoeae and one megalopa were obtained and are described. Complete larval development required about 9 days under culture conditions of 25.5-28.5 C and 22. The larvae are similar to, but may be distinguished from, those of L. spinosa, the only other species of the genus for which the larval development has been described. Zoeal molting behavior was observed on several occasions. In the molt from zoea I to zoea II, the zoea apparently used its old abdominal skin as a brace against which to exert pressure while withdrawing its carapace and appendages from the old skin. This "bracing" behavior was not seen in the molt from zoea II to the megalopa. 
1350814|Hatching mechanisms were investigated in the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, and in its egg- and gill-parasite, the nemertean Carcinonemertes carcinophila, collected in the southern Chesapeake Bay area. In Callinectes the outer egg membrane is ruptured by pressure from within resulting from the osmotic swelling of the inner membrane. The inner membrane remains attached to the outer membrane, and hence by the egg stalk to the mother crab. A portion of the outer membrane then lies as a cup over the telson, where it acts as a cutting edge in breaking the inner membrane. The rupture is caused by movements of the abdomen and telson. Final escape, as a prezoea, takes place through the mechanical tearing of the inner membrane by the prezoea. Ecdysis to the first zoeal stage occurs soon after emergence. In Carcinonemertes, the ciliated larva escapes from the egg membrane by secretion of an enzyme, which softens the membrane until the larva can push its way out mechanically.
1350907|More than 1400 white perch were studied to determine growth, year class strength and survival rates in a section of the Delaware River. Except for young of the year, all specimens were collected with trawl and trap nets. There was no difference in size selection using these two methods. The annulus is a valid year mark. Most individuals had completed the annulus by mid-June. However, the period of annulus completion extended from at least the first week in May to the end of July with older individuals completing the annulus later. In their first year white perch attained approximately 40% of the length attained by the eighth year. Young-of-the-year continue growth through the month of November while older fish grew little after September. Up to their fifth year, females grew somewhat faster than males. Based on the 1960 through 1964 year classes males had higher survival rates than females. In general, growth rates were lower in this section of the river than was previously reported for the Patuxent or Delaware Rivers. For both sexes growth rates were greater in the east side of the river than in the west. This was not due to differences in mean temperatures. The 1964 and 1966 year classes were relatively strong compared with others. The relatively good growth in 1965 probably contributed to a higher number of recruit spawners in 1966. The number of fish older than age group III increased in July and August collections and decreased progressively from September through November. Very few fish older than age group VIII were captured.
1351160|Eight productivity experiments performed in the York River, Virginia, during the summer of 1963 are described. A factorial design was used in which water samples from seven depths were suspended throughout the water column to obtain data on gross production, respiration, and net production as functions of collection and suspension depths. Characteristics of these functions, represented as response surfaces, are described in relation to hydrography and phytoplankton species composition. It is shown that levels of production and respiration cannot be inferred from data on cell abundance and species composition since the latter information does not express dynamic states of the component populations. In a subsequent paper based on the present data average photosynthesis, respiration, and net production per cell of the principal species in mixed samples will be estimated to develop information about state changes of specific populations during succession.
1350792|This sampler, a modification of a previous model, has been proven to operate at speeds up to 21 mph. The need for an independent depressor to submerge the sampler has been eliminated by incorporating trim tabs on the horizontal stabilizers; scope of tow cable (wire angle) can be varied by the position of tow cable attachment and/or trim tab angle of depression. An undisturbed water mass is sampled abeam of the towing vessel during surface collections when boat is rigged as pictured in this report. This sampler and its associated equipment are relatively simple and inexpensive in design and construction, and in field operation.
1350810|An investigation into the dynamic balance of Chesapeake Bay waters is carried out by means of a two-dimensional, plan view numerical model. The results of this investigation show that neither the Coriolis force nor the advective terms in the governing vertically integrated equations can be neglected without changing the tidal dynamics and circulation patterns of this Bay. Also, a bottom friction coefficient of 0.0025 produces the most realistic simulations of observed tidal data.
1350784|A cross of Pinus virginiana x P. clausa was produced by the Institute of Forest Genetics in California, following controlled pollination in 1953. Today, only 52 of these hybrids exist: 47 in Maryland and 5 in California. At the age of 10 years in Maryland, the hybrids had an average height of 17.6 feet and an average diameter (at breast height) of 3.9 inches. Compared to a progeny of the mother tree, Virginia pine, P. virginiana, the hybrid trees were significantly larger and more uniform in height. They also had larger pollen, shed pollen two weeks earlier than Virginia pine, and had a few other distinguishing characters. Ten hybrid scions have been successfully grafted on root stock of loblolly pine, P. taeda.
1350596|Anilocra acuta (Isopoda: Cymothoidae), previously known from Georgia and from Tampa Bay, Florida, is recorded from the lower Ochlockonee River and from Alligator Harbor, Florida, from Louisiana, and from the lower Hudson River, New York. New hosts are Lepisosteus spatula, Bairdiella chrysura, and Esox niger.
1350701|Larvae of Emerita talpoida (Say) were raised in the laboratory from the egg through the six zoeal stages. Red colored chromatophores having a constant arrangement in each of the six zoeal stages were studied. The pattern of these chromatophores was compared with that in descriptions of the larvae of other species of Emerita and found to be distinctive. The constancy of these pigment areas makes them valuable for differentiating E. talpoida larvae from others in the genus.
1351359|A survey of the sport fishery was conducted in a 265-square-mile area of the lower Potomac Estuary during the summer and fall of 1959, 1960, and 1961. Fisherman interviews, postal card questionnaires, and aerial boat counts were used to determine angling pressure, rates of catch, estimated harvest, species importance, and economic value of the sport fishery. Postal responses were increased from 33.5 to 66.3 percent, perhaps minimizing bias from non-response. No important differences were found in 1961 between initial and follow-up postal returns. The 1961 estimate indicated that 101,000 angler trips produced approximately 1,200,000 fish weighing almost 642,000 pounds. Party size averaged 3.0 anglers who fished approximately 4.5 hours per trip and creeled 2.6 fish per man-hour. Virtually no significant differences were found between rates of catch for incomplete and complete trip data in the only year tested-1961. Interview or postal surveys appear equally effective in providing rates of catch and each might be used solely in future surveys. Confidence limits for 1961 revealed narrow ranges for both incomplete and complete trip estimates of fishing pressure and harvest, indicating precise survey methods. Trolling was the more productive fishing method for striped bass and bluefish. Still fishing yielded higher catches of spot, white perch, weakfish, yellow perch and other bottom species. Resident striped bass ranked first in importance to the sport fishery in 1960, primarily due to recruitment of the dominant year-class of 1958. Throughout the survey, fish of age group II dominated the striped bass catch, while striped bass six years and older made up less than six percent. The spot ranked first in the 1961 catch. During the five-month survey in 1961, an estimated $594,000 was spent by Potomac Estuary anglers. The average angler spent $5.80 on each of his 29 mean yearly trips.
1350874|Four zoeal stages of Upogebia affinis taken in plankton samples from the York River estuary and adjacent lower Chesapeake Bay, Virginia, are described and figured. Upogebia affinis zoeae may be identified readily in plankton samples. Distinguishing characteristics include an unarmed carapace and rostrum in all stages, the shape and spination of the telson, and the flattened appearance of the endopodites of the pereiopods in late stages.
1350764|Juvenile planehead filefish, Monocanthus hispidis, were collected from the Westport River, a southern New England estuary, during September and October of 1971. The critical thermal minimum of filefish acclimated to 15 C was found to be 8.70 C. The mean lower lethal temperature of these fish was 5.63 C. It is suggested that these fish do not escape northern waters before cold temperatures overtake them in the fall.
1350780|Elastrator (castrator) rings can be used to bind the claws of blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus. The rings render the claw non-functional when used in conjunction with wooden blocks or dowels. The block is inserted between the fingers of the claw and the ring is placed over the claw proximal to the block. Feeding, survival and molting are not adversely affected by the presence of the binding rig. Retention is excellent in peeler crabs but varies in adult crabs.
1350456|All metabolic rates of zooplankton are dependent on temperature. Rates generally rise in a linear fashion, with inflection points when plotted on a semi-log scale, and fall at higher temperatures. The upper limits of thermal tolerance for two species of copepods from Chesapeake Bay were found to be near the normal temperature of the habitat during the summer. Acclimation temperature had little effect on the upper limits of thermal tolerance. Estuarine copepods were killed by passage through the condensers of a power plant, although temperatures encountered were generally below the upper limits of thermal tolerance. Chlorine gas was applied at relatively high rates at that particular power plant and is suspected to be the cause of mortalities. The operation of the power plant did not alter the seasonal patterns of distribution or production of estuarine copepods.
1350631| Over 2,500 sand shrimp were collected between October 1958 and December 1960 from shallow waters along Delaware Bay shores where salinity ranged from 4.4 to 31.4% and temperature extremes were 0.0 and 26.0 C. The growth rate of C. septemspinosa was estimated to be about 1.6 mm per month and no seasonal variation was observed. The smallest shrimp collected was 6 mm long while the largest was 70 mm. Three year-classes of females and two year-classes of males inhabit the shoal waters in spring. By summer the oldest year-class of both sexes disappeared from these areas. A size difference was apparent between males and females. The longest female measured was 70 mm as compared to 47 mm for the longest male. The major spawning season for C. septemspinosa was from March to October, with ovigerous females appearing the year round except for December in the shoal water samples. Berried females were collected at water temperatures ranging from 0.0 to 25.0 C. and salinity varied from 17.7 to 29.3. The first egg bearers in the spawning season were large females. In July smaller berried females were more numerous. The importance of this size difference is emphasized by the fact that egg carrying capacity of a female is related to her length. The largest female recorded (70 mm) carried over 7,500 eggs. Ovigerous females ranged in length from 22 mm to 70 mm. Calculated ages for these lengths are one year and about 3 years, respectively. Females outnumbered males, especially during the spawning season. A preponderance of females bearing eggs in early stages (prior to the formation of eye pigment) was noted in the field study. A high incidence of organic debris in gastric mills, as well as behavior, suggests that scavenging is an important means of supplementing the diet. The most prominent group of organisms found in gastric mills of these shrimp were planktonic Crustacea. 
1350979|Oxygen consumption at the soil-water interface in a Delaware salt marsh was measured over the annual cycle. No significant difference between vegetation areas was detected, but summer rates were 2.5 times those in winter. Oxygen uptake by the cores of soil was relatively constant with seasonal temperature trends from 2 C to 20 C, but increased rapidly when the temperature rose to 30 C.
1351062|Occurrence of gammarid and caprellid amphipods in semimonthly nocturnal surface plankton samples taken on flood tide for 10 years at one estuarine station and shorter periods at 11 other stations is summarized on a monthly basis. Fifty-eight species are identified from samples taken during the study but no single station produced this variety. The great diversity of species from stations near the sea is contrasted with the sparse and different fauna of meso-oligohaline waters. Seasonal abundance in samples is summarized for all important species on a station basis. Contrasts in density of 8 species in surface-bottom tows and 33 species in samples taken at alternate lunar phases (new-full) indicate significant behavioral differences. Nocturnal stratification varied with species; about 1/3 showed no apparent abundance in association with lunar phase, another 1/3 showed increase at new, and a final 1/3 at full moon.
1351075|Nesting success of ospreys along the Choptank River, Maryland, was studied from 1968 through 1971. A total of 96 nesting attempts was observed; 86 of these were accessible for study. In the accessible nests, 80 young were fledged for an average of .93 young per nest. This average is among the best in the country, but slightly below that estimated for population stability. Known causes for loss of nests, eggs, and young are documented. Nesting success is compared with other osprey populations in the United States.
1350995| The problem of whether the anadromous Alosa mediocris spawns in fresh water or at sea is clarified; eggs stripped from brood fish taken during May 1956 in tidal fresh water in the Patuxent River, Maryland, were hatched successfully in fresh water. Unknown eggs and larvae taken in plankton samples at the same site in 1953 where adults are abundant were also believed to be this species. Data and illustrations of the eggs and early larval stages of this species are presented for the first time. Very young transforming stages between 9-20 mm are tentatively identified from upper tidewater plankton collections. Some juvenile A. mediocris, taken by beach seine and trawls, are treated in detail. All are compared briefly with closely related clupeoids found under similar ecological conditions. The egg is spherical, transparent, slightly adhesive, and midway in diameter (x = 1.49 mm, range, 1.34-1.64) between the American shad, A. sapidissima, and branch herrings, A. pseudoharengus and A. aestivalis. It is semi-demersal, and partially buoyant only under moving water conditions. The granular yolk is light amber yellow (x = 0.98 mm in diameter), and has no oil globule. Prolarvae hatch in two or three days between 65 and 70F (x = 6.1 mm, range, 5.2-6.5 mm T. L.). They are slender and transparent with a granulated yolk sac, unpigmented eyes, and sparse body pigmentation. When the larvae are about 6.5 mm and three days old, the yolk sac is assimilated and advanced development of the bone structure and visceral organs occurs. The body pigmentation is restricted to the dorso-lateral edge of the gut and on the caudal area. Postlarvae transform to juveniles between 10 and 35 mm when: the fins develop, most of the adult meristic numbers are attained, more intensive pigmentation occurs, and the young clupeoid form is developed. Squamation and scutalation begins between 30 and 35 mm. The myotome count in the young between 20 and 30 mm corresponds to the adult vertebral number of 54. The remarkable paucity of juveniles from estuarine collections is discussed. A hypothetical growth rate, derived from existing limited data, suggests that young-of-the-year growth exceeds that of juveniles of other species of Alosa. Observations on the adults on the spawning grounds indicate that spawning reaches a peak in early May and ends in early June. Males average 14.1 inches T. L. (range, 11.3-16.3), while females average 14.8 (12.6-17.8). Commercial production has declined markedly during the last seven decades, but the hickory shad has never been economically valuable. It has assumed great importance as a game fish in recent years. 
1350851| Thirty different species of copepods were found in inner continental shelf waters off Virginia from December 1959 through November 1960. The range of surface water temperature during this period was 25 C (1.6 to 26.6 C). Most of the copepods were colder water forms whose relative abundance throughout the year was similar to that observed by other investigators for the Atlantic coast north of Cape Hatteras. Species of tropical origin were relatively scarce, probably limited by the low winter-spring temperatures. Numerous other crustacean plankters were identified, some to species; decapod larvae were most numerous from April through June. The mean annual displacement volume of total zooplankon, excluding the data for August and September when coelenterates, ctenophores, and tunicates were particularly abundant, was 9.5 ml per 20-minute half-meter-net haul. 
1350986| 42 male and 46 female adult blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun, were taken in early March from lower Chesapeake Bay. These crabs were arbitrarily divided into three groups, which were subjected to 10, 20 and 30 salinities at 20C. After acclimation, blood samples were taken for physiological analysis. Freezing-point depression determinations showed that all crabs were hyperosmotic to the media in which they were kept. The males maintained an average blood osmoconcentration of 1.08 osmoles/liter in 10 and 20 waters and had a mean of 1.14 osmoles/liter in 30 water. The total blood osmoconcentrations of females increased, though not proportionately, with increases in salinity of the external media: 0.95 osmoles/liter in 10 water, 1.01 osmoles/liter in 20 water, and 1.18 osmoles/liter in 30 water. The difference between sexes is at least partly due to their differential abilities to regulate sodium in the blood. This differential could be one of the factors that cause adult female crabs to move to higher-salinity water, but limit males to brackish water. 
1350945|Eurasian watermilfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum L.) increased from a minor annoyance of a few thousand acres in the late 1950's, to a major nuisance covering over 200,000 acres in waters of the upper portion of the Chesapeake Bay in 1964. From 1961 through 1964, the effectiveness of underwater mowing of milfoil using a mechanical mower with and without subsequent application of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid was investigated in medium and near maximum salinity ranges for milfoil in tributaries of Maryland's western shore. Milfoil normally reaches the surface by early May, and begins to sink in high salinity waters about September 15, and in lower salinities about October 15. Depending on the type of activity for which milfoil control is instituted, mowing must be repeated at least monthly during the usual mid-May to mid-September growing season. In this study it was effective only for the season in which it was made. New nodal growth to 18 inches or more per month from cut milfoil stems or fragments made cutting impractical for large areas. Cutting followed by herbicide application when new growth offered sufficient vegetative containment of applied 2,4-D impregnated attaclay granules extended milfoil's vulnerable period to 2,4-D beyond anthesis. The butoxyethanol ester of 2,4-D was more effective than the iso-octyl ester. In study plots no adverse affects were noted to endemic fauna. Prime submersed waterfowl food plants, previously retarded by the dense milfoil over-story, made rapid growth once the milfoil was thinned or removed. These preferred waterfowl foods evidenced no undesirable responses to either cutting or to 2,4-D.
1350804| Accumulation, transfer, and loss of Kepone in estuarine organisms were studied in laboratory bioassays. Kepone was bioconcentrated by oysters (Crassostrea virginica), mysids (Mysidopsis bahia), grass shrimp (Palaemonetes pugio), sheepshead minnows (Cyprinodon variegatus), and spot (Leiostomus xanthurus), from concentrations as low as 0.023 g/l seawater. Bioconcentration factors ranged from 10 to 340 in static exposures and 900 to 13,500 in flow-through bioassays, and were dependent on species and exposure duration. Depuration of Kepone from oysters in Kepone-free water was rapid (35% loss in 24 hours); however, depuration of Kepone was slow in crustaceans and fish, with tissue concentrations decreasing 30-50% in 24-28 days. Oysters, fed Chlorococcum containing approximately 34 g Kepone/g wet weight, attained 0.21 g Kepone/g (wet tissue) in 14 days, but when fed Kepone-free plankton, depurated Kepone to below detectable concentrations (<.02 g/g) within 10 days. Spot obtained Kepone when fed live mysids that had grazed on Kepone-laden brine shrimp. Kepone residues (1.05 g/g wet tissue) in these fish approached the concentration of their food (1.23 g/g wet tissue); at the lower concentration tested, Kepone concentrations below detection limits (<.2 g/g) in prey accumulated in the predator to detectable concentrations (0.02 g/g) within 30 days. Bioaccumulation factors (concentration of Kepone in predator/concentration in prey) at 30 days were equal (0.85 spot/mysid; 0.53 mysid/brine shrimp) in the high and low concentrations tested. The initial bioconcentration of Kepone from water by plankton was the dominant source of Kepone to each member of this food chain, but significant (>85%) quantities of Kepone transferred from prey to predatory fish. 
1350846|The effect of powdered aluminum, used in photogrammetric studies of water currents, on the eastern oyster, Crassostrea virginica, and the soft-shell clam, Mya arenaria, was studied under laboratory conditions. Although the metal particles were removed by filtering activity of the organisms, no increase in aluminum was detected in the tissues and no increase was observed in water samples. These aquatic invertebrates apparently react to aluminum particles as they would to any other inorganic material in the same size range.
1350393|A series of monthly exploratory cruises into the neritic waters of the Atlantic Ocean adjacent to lower Chesapeake Bay were initiated late in 1959 to: (a) locate the eggs and larvae of fishes spawning in the area; and (b) to trace the transport of these stages by surface and subsurface currents into the Chesapeake Bay system. This paper will serve as an introduction to a proposed series describing the results of the cruises. The survey area, which covers 50 nautical miles offshore and 60 miles in a north-south direction, is the neritic zone lying within the 20 fathom contour and extending from False Cape on the south to Wachapreague Inlet at the northern limit. Twenty-two offshore stations in addition to three stations in lower Chesapeake Bay were sampled monthly with surface and bottom plankton nets. Routine hydrographic data were taken at each station. Surface and bottom water samples from the cruises of December through May indicated these preliminary points: From December through March the water column was essentially homogeneous with respect to temperature. Vernal warming began in April and thermal stratification progressed through May. The distribution of salinities was generally coastal in character with isohalines parallel to the coastline. The discharge of effluent from Chesapeake Bay produces frequent deviations from the normal coastal pattern. In general, the major component of the discharge from Chesapeake Bay passes out around Cape Henry and proceeds southward. Drift bottle returns indicated that the survey area is crossed by a southerly drift having a velocity of 10 to 14 miles per day.
1350997|Four provenances of Scotch pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) were tested in Garrett County, Western Maryland. Trees from Central Germany (near Hanover) and Lower Austria were very significantly (at the 1-per cent level) superior in six-year height growth and in sixth-year leader elongation to trees from Sweden (Prov. of Ostergotland), and France (Prov. of Haute Loire). The German provenance was faster growing than other provenances tested at the 5-per cent level of significance, and it was faster growing than the Swedish provenance by 42 per cent. The annual sixth-year growth measurements were as reliable in determining the potentials of growth rate as the measurements of total heights. Provenances from Austria and France represented very significantly darker green foliages than those from Sweden and Germany. Traits studied are important in selecting better suited provenances for Christmas-tree and timber production in the Alleghany section of Western Maryland.
1350693|Twenty-seven fish species were collected from Conowingo Creek at eleven stations during the summer, 1970. Species most abundant were Rhinichthys atratulus, Notropis cornutus, Exoglossum maxillingua, Semotilus atromaculatus and Catostomus commersoni. A Spearman's rank correlation coefficient matrix was calculated for biological and physical parameters. Distribution of fishes appeared related to width and depth of the stream, but was most influenced by gradient.
1350411|The host-parasite relationship between the spot, L. xanthurus, and T. tenuicornis was studied in Chesapeake Bay during the summers of 1959 and 1960. Of 272 L. xanthurus examined during 1959, 207 (76.1 per cent) were found to be infected. The worm burden ranged from 1 to 87 with a mean of 6.5 worms per fish. Supplemental collections during 1960 yielded similar results. The incidence and intensity of infection in spot over 13 cm in standard length were greater than in smaller fish; no T. tenuicornis were found in 23 spot that ranged from 4.4 to 9.0 cm S. L. The condition factors for parasitized and non-parasitized fish were similar. An attempt to find the intermediate host of T. tenuicornis in the invertebrate food items from the digestive tracts of 272 spot failed. A similar examination of 442 free-living estuarine amphipods, comprising two species, yielded no larval T. tenuicornis. In addition to L. xanthurus, T. tenuicornis was found in Bairdiella chrysura, Micropogon undulatus, Orthopristis chrysopterus, Roccus americanus, Menidia menidia and Anguilla rostrata. The latter three species are new host records for T. tenuicornis. The known hosts and geographic range of T. tenuicornis are discussed. Other parasites of L. xanthurus encountered during this study are reported. The age, size, and life history of the host are discussed in relation to the observed parasite burden.
1351255|The suspended sediment discharged by the Susquehanna River at Havre de Grace, Maryland, during the year 1 April 1966 through 31 March 1967 is estimated to be about 0.60 10<sup>6</sup> metric tons. This estimate is based on daily river discharge records from the Conowingo Hydroelectric Plant, and on 34 determinations of the depth distribution of suspended sediment at a station in the Susquehanna River off Havre de Grace. Approximately 70% of this total of 0.60 10<sup>6</sup> tons, or about 0.42 10<sup>6</sup> tons, was discharged during the period of peak river flow in February and March.
1350932|The rough scad, Trachurus lathami Nichols, is recorded from the Maryland part of Chesapeake Bay for the first time. It was captured in a trawl towed at a depth of 60 feet on July 21, 1958 at a salinity of about 14 ppt. The specimen was 102 mm standard length, apparently from age group I based on scale examination, and somewhat smaller than average size.
1351279|The detailed external morphology of the mouth parts of Pagurus longicarpus Say and P. pollicaris Say is described and correlated with the function of these structures in feeding and cleaning activities. It is suggested that the number of setae in a given location is important to feeding while setal structure is significant for cleaning. Two methods of feeding are described: 1) feeding on fine material in the substrate, and 2) feeding on large morsels of dead organisms.
1350573|The net aerial angiosperm productivity, salinity, and soil nutrient composition of three Virginia marshes were determined. Oligohaline Ware Creek Marsh and mesohaline Carter Creek Marsh were most productive, 563 and 572 g m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, while euhaline Wachapreague Marsh was least productive, 362 g m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Species in Carter and Ware Creek Marshes were clustered into associations based on salinity tolerance. Nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations of Spartina alterniflora tissue were high in the spring and decreased as the growing season continued. Soil nutrient concentrations were variable, and trends during the growing season were not discernible. No significant correlations were found between soil and plant nutrient concentrations. Although the empirical data suggests that high soil salinity and low soil nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations limited primary productivity in Wachapreague Marsh, a multiple regression of standing crop on these parameters did not delineate any as the primary factors limiting salt marsh production.
1350777|A substance which stimulates the gregarious setting of oyster larvae has been partially purified. This material, which is present in the oyster shell liquor, is a protein of molecular weight in excess of 100,000 Daltons. Thyroxine, and possibly 3,5-diiodotyrosine and 3-iodotyrosine are freed by enzymatic or alkaline hydrolysis of the protein. These same substances are associated with the biological activity as they too will stimulate setting of larvae, although much higher concentrations are necessary for activity comparable to that of the conjugate protein.
1351213|The bacteriological quality of unwashed, spray washed, and blown soft shell clams was determined monthly after 0, 3, and 6 days storage using standard plate count (SPC), 25 C plate count, coliform MPN, and fecal coliform MPN. The spray washed clams exhibited the lowest average plate counts in all areas. The mean coliform and fecal coliform MPN values were erratic for any one procedure. In general, the bacteriological quality of the blown clams was inferior to that of the spray washed clams. Although no exact causative factor was ascertained, poor sanitation was suggested as a possible explanation for this.
1350601|Larval stages attributed to three species of Callianassa (designated as spp. A, B and C) taken in plankton samples from the lower Chesapeake Bay are described and figured. Evidence concerning tentative identification of spp. A and B is discussed, and it is suggested that these larvae may be ascribed to Callianassa biformis and Callianassa atlantica, respectively.
1350602|An interview-count sport fishing survey was conducted from May 1971 through April 1972 within 10,340 acres of the Patuxent Estuary, from Jacks Bay to Holland Cliff, including the effluent canal of the Potomac Electric Power Company's steam electric station (SES) located at Chalk Point, Maryland. An estimated 41,238 angler trips, totaling 170,535 hours, were made within this area of the Patuxent Estuary during the period sampled. These anglers caught 383,900 fish, of which 176,900 were kept and 207,000 were returned to the water. The average angler spent 4.1 hours per trip and harvested 1.0 fish per hour or 4.0 fish per trip. White perch dominated the catch with 188,200 caught and 102,900 harvested. Of 69,500 striped bass caught, 66,000 were under the legal size limit of 12 inches and were returned to the water. Spot were taken throughout the estuary during June through October, with 19,500 being harvested. Small catches of spot continued to be reported only within the heated effluent canal during November, December, and March. Over 50 percent of all angler trips were made to the heated effluent canal of the Chalk Point SES, with over 90 percent of these trips being made during the cooler seasons from October through April when little or no fishing occurred within other areas of the estuary. An estimated 13,500 recreational crabbers spent 59,200 hours and harvested 101,700 crabs from May through 2 November. These crabbers averaged 1.7 crabs per hour and 7.5 crabs per trip. Results are compared to a similar sport fishing survey carried out within this area of the Patuxent Estuary prior to the operation of the SES.
1350942|A new species of Pinnotheres is described from 9 female specimens and assigned the name Pinnotheres chamae. The new species, known only from the host jewel box, Chama congregata, is similar to P. moseri. The male of P. chamae is unknown.
1350572| Gammarus spp. (G. daiberi and G. tigrinus) experienced no increased latent mortalities for periods up to 10 days after being exposed to an 8.3 C T above an ambient temperature of 25.5 C for periods up to 60 minutes. An 11.1 C T above an ambient temperature of 26.5 C resulted in significant reductions in survival in groups of Gammarus spp. exposed for 30 and 60 minutes. No significant mortalities were observed, however, following a 5-minute exposure to the 11.1 C T. At an ambient temperature of 11.7 C, Gammarus spp. exposed to 16.7 C T's for periods up to 180 minutes displayed no increased mortalities 10 days after exposure. A sustained 17-day exposure of Gammarus spp. to a 15.6 C T at ambient temperatures of 11.2 to 7.1 C resulted in no increased mortalities and stimulated reproductive behavior. Subsequent reproductive activities were not affected by up to 60-minute exposures of mature Gammarus spp. to an 8.3 C T at an ambient temperature of 26.0 C. The same exposure also did not affect the release of young by ovigerous female Gammarus spp. An 11.0 C T for 30 minutes resulted, however, in almost no release of young from ovigerous females. 
1350435|The distribution of recent Ostracoda as determined from 69 bottom samples in the Rappahannock Estuary, Virginia, is related to the pattern of estuarine circulation and different types of fresh and salty water. Three ostracode biofacies are established on the basis of dominant species: (1) a river biofacies, (2) a shoal biofacies, and (3) a basin biofacies. Although estuarine-wide ostracode populations are small, shoals of the middle estuary have large and varied populations. This abundance of individuals and variety of species may be the result of greater production associated with the introduction of river-borne nutrients and with the growth of benthic plants, or it may be due largely to the redistribution and concentration of carapaces.
1350461|The effects of heated effluent on oysters in the Patuxent River were investigated. Oyster meats near the outfall of a steam electric generating station started to display green color shortly after initiation of plant operation. In time, the affliction increased in intensity and spread to oyster stations farther removed from the outfall. The greening of Patuxent oysters was probably caused by copper uptake, since green color and copper concentration (mg of copper per g dried meat weight) were closely correlated. Copper content of oysters decreased with distance from the outfall. There was an inverse relationship between oyster condition and copper concentration. This was most evident at stations near the outfall where oysters had high copper content. Amounts of copper per oyster, based on mg of copper per liter shell cavity volume, did not display great seasonal fluctuation. Oysters at special stations, established to investigate a possible copper source upstream from the plant, showed a reduction in mg of copper per g dried meat, while oysters at stations inside and near the outfall increased sharply in mg of copper per g dried meat. Indications in the Patuxent point to a relationship between oyster copper uptake and power plant operation.
1351096| Returns from 2503 tagged striped bass released into the Chesapeake Bay during 1964 and 1965 were analyzed statistically and qualitatively to evaluate the effects of a gonadal biopsy technique designed for use on living fish. The results prove that the added gonadal biopsy technique does not significantly alter the survival rate of tagged striped bass. Five hundred twelve returns from 1250 tagged and biopsied (TB) fish and 445 returns from 1253 tagged only (TO) fish were grouped into 22 samples to enable the chi-square 2  2 contingency test of association to be calculated by both the standard and Yates corrected methods. Twenty-one of 22 samples yielded chi-square values whose probabilities (p) were non-significant, i. e., 0.50 < p < 0.75 and <latex>$0.75<p_{{\rm c}}<0.90$</latex>. One had a p-value of 0.05, denoting lack of similarity between the TB fish and the TO fish. Further, those chi-values were utilized to test the standardized normal deviate () to determine if they were normally distributed. The values were =0.92, p=0.64 and  <sub> c</sub>=1.14,p<sub> c</sub>=0.74. Thus, the survival rate as indicated by the recapture rates of TO fish was not significantly greater than TB fish. Qualitative comparisons of the reported recapture data for both categories indicate similarities with regard to frequency distribution of days of freedom, maximum days of freedom, and mean days of freedom. 
1350726|Forty-one invertebrate species were collected during two surveys of the soft-shelled clam, Mya arenaria, in Somerset County waters of the Chesapeake Bay area. Quantitative samples taken with the hydraulic clam dredge were limited to bottoms in waters between 3 and 9 feet deep. Major bottom types, water temperatures, salinities, and dominant species in each of the twelve sampled areas are presented. The common synapta, Leptosynapta inhaerens, the ornate worm, Amphitrite ornata, and the stout razor clam, Tagelus plebius, were the most abundant and widely distributed species.
1350837|A series of 452 samples collected from November 1964 through February 1966 from a North Carolina sandy beach contained 27,219 invertebrates representing 41 species. The sandy-beach community, as composed of a homogeneous group of organisms, was identified through the use of an index of faunal affinity. Community structure is described in terms of abundance, frequency, diversity, and feeding types. Six species, Neohaustorius schmitzi, Acanthohaustorius millsi, Donax variabilis, Scolelepis squamata, Exosphaeroma diminutum, and Haploscoloplos fragilis comprise 97% of the fauna by number. Niche differences among these species are discussed.
1350980|This paper describes a computerized system for storage and retrieval of information on life history and environmental limits of organisms, which we have applied to the estuarine and nearshore organisms of the Texas coast. The system uses standard biological nomen-clature instead of codes, and provides great flexibility both in search criteria and output format. Each entry for an organism is derived from a separate literature reference. Forty descriptors are used, covering taxonomic identification, environment classification, distribution in time, environmental limits, trophic relationships, and reference identification. The same format is also used to record laboratory experiment derived environmental limits such as LD50 values. An interactive terminal can be used for rapid access to the data base. The system is being used by both coastal zone management planners and estuarine ecologists.
1350761|Larvae of the mud crab, Rhithropanopeus harrisii, were raised using each of the three experimental procedures: shallow bowl, Erlenmeyer flask, Erlenmeyer flask agitated upon a reciprocating variable-speed shaker at 110 rpm. Survival and rate of development were calculated for each of the four zoeal stages and for cumulative zoeal development. The use of an Erlenmeyer flask as a culture vessel instead of a shallow bowl has no effect upon either survival or developmental rate. Survival and developmental rate values show no differences due to culture method in cumulative zoeal development. Agitation has no effect upon survival in any individual zoeal stage but does increase developmental rate in the first zoea and decrease it in the third zoea. These differential rates just compensate for one another, producing no net change for cumulative zoeal development under the experimental conditions. Rates of development for crab larvae based upon laboratory experiments conducted in still water may differ from rates that occur in nature. There is no evidence to suggest that agitation of cultures in the laboratory will result in a higher yield of experimental animals by increasing survival rate.
1350929|Nudibranchs, Elysia chlorotica Gould, ranging from 5 mm to 28 mm in length, were identified for the first time at two locations in the Chesapeake Bay. This is a southward extension of its reported former range which was Massachusetts to New Jersey. A brief discussion of ecological data and activity associated with the organisms is presented.
1351041|A particle measurement computer system was successfully used to measure lengths and areas of Mercenaria mercenaria larvae. This method can be used to expedite larval shellfish measurements and has applications for enumerating bivalve embryos.
1350510|One hundred ninety-four larvae of Symphurus plagiusa were taken in the lower Chesapeake Bay during a three-year zooplankton survey 1971-1974. Early larval stages (1.3-6.2 mm NL) are illustrated and described. Recently hatched larvae (1.3-2.8 mm NL) are distinguished by pigment patterns, gut configuration, and a fleshy occipital hump. Later larvae (2.8-6.2 mm NL) are identified by pigmentation, gut configuration and produced dorsal rays. Larvae were taken during July and/or August each year. Recently hatched larvae (1.3-2.9 mm NL) made up the majority of the catch and were most abundant in the deepest and most saline portions of the bay. Large estuaries may be more significant spawning areas for Symphurus plagiusa than previously reported. Evidence is presented that earlier descriptions of S. plagiusa larvae may be in error.
1350799|A study of the macrobenthos of the tidal Delaware River between Burlington and Trenton, New Jersey, included measurements of density and biomass for common species. Tubificidae (Limnodrilus) were dominant, comprising over 90% of all organisms taken in the 3-year study period. Density seemed to be a function of water temperature (20-25 C, optimal) and was greatest in late spring and early summer. Other common species were larval Procladius culiciformis (Chironomidae) and Corbicula manilensis (asiatic clam). Procladius was most abundant in late summer just prior to and during emergence. The asiatic clam was in the process of colonizing the area and growth data have been calculated. Potential relationships between numbers and standing crop of the common organisms with sediment type, and seasonal changes were explored.
1351165|Peritrichous ciliates of the genera Lagenophrys and Epistylis were found on the gill lamellae of 32 of 41 blue crabs from Chincoteague and Chesapeake Bays. The species of Lagenophrys reported here is the first from a marine brachyuran host and may represent a new species. The specific taxonomic position of the Epistylis species has not yet been determined. The occurrence of these ciliates in great numbers on gills of moribund blue crabs raises a question as to whether or not they may contribute to mortality of crabs in shedding or holding tanks.
1350789| Eggs and larvae were reared in fresh water after stripping and fertilizing ripe ova from known brood fish found spawning in April and May in tidal fresh water. The early developmental stages and transforming postlarvae and very young fish were also identified in ichthyoplankton taken in tidal fresh and slightly brackish water up to 8 salinity. The eggs are spherical (except for those with an attachment disk), markedly adhesive, transparent to translucent, relatively small, demersal, and undergo meroblastic cleavage. Average diameters and ranges were: (a) unfertilized egg, 0.79 mm (0.70-0.89); (b) fertilized and water-hardened egg, 0.92 mm (0.75-1.09); (c) yolk mass, 0.70 mm (0.50-0.89); and (d) oil globule, 0.32 (0.20-0.44). Nothing unusual was observed in the embryonic development of white perch eggs. Prolarvae hatch in about 48 hours at a water temperature of about 63 F. They averaged 2.6 mm (range, 1.7-3.0) total length (T. L.), and are transparent and relatively undeveloped, lack a mouth opening, have non-pigmented eyes, and display a greatly enlarged yolk sac and oil globule beneath the head. Early postlarvae occur when the yolk and oil globule are absorbed at about 3.8 mm T. L., at which size a visibly toothless mouth is developed, and the eyes become pigmented. Sparse pigmentation occurs on the head, oil globule, posterior yolk sac, and edges of the dorsum, ventrum, and hind-gut. All larvae hatched in the laboratory died at a size between 4.0 and 5.5 mm T. L. before transformation took place. Transforming postlarvae at the critical stage between 6.0 and 8.0 mm T. L. have not been reared in the laboratory or identified in the plankton. Late-stage postlarvae, identified from plankton samples, transform to very young fish between 7.0 and 9.0 mm T. L. The heterocercal tail with projecting urostyle assumes a homocercal outline and lepidotrichia are evident in the fins between 10 and 12 mm T. L. Preanal (12) and postanal (13) myotomes correspond to the adult number of vertebrae. As metamorphosis proceeds, the fish become less transparent, pigmentation is more profuse, and they assume an early serranid shape. Very young fish are relatively short, with a deep caudal peduncle, and usually lack preopercular spines. The third anal spine develops from the first terminally-segmented softray between 20 and 30 mm T. L.; at smaller sizes they possess two anal spines and can be misidentified as a percid fish. Squamation begins between 20 and 25 mm T. L. after which size most of the adult meristic numbers are attained. The profuse but uniform dorsolateral pigmentation is developed at this size interval. The early stages of white perch were compared critically with those of the striped bass, which is larger at similar stages of development. Important differences in the eggs, prolarvae, postlarvae, and very young fish were found between them. Further data is given that will allow separation of these two species from the early developmental stages of other species that may occur in ichthyoplankton samples collected in the upper estuaries of the Chesapeake system. A historical review of sporadic large-scale artificial propagation and stocking of yolk-sac fry of white perch from 1875 to 1936, largely in northern Chesapeake Bay, suggested that no perceptible benefits took place in the commercial catches three to six years later when they would have become 6 to 8 inches long and exploitable. 
1350518| Cyathura carinata (Kryer) has been found in western Denmark, separated from the biotope known in north-west Europe. Likewise there are records that Cyathura has been collected by pelagic sampling in Denmark. 
1350877|Chincoteague Bay is surrounded by approximately 95 km<sup>2</sup> (23,000 acres) of irregularly flooded salt marsh dominated by short Spartina alterniflora. The maximum standing crop, chemical composition, and live:dead ratio of the marsh grasses were estimated from samples taken at 20 marsh stations in August, 1970. Live standing crop ranged from 427 to 558 g dry matter m<sup>-2</sup> and 335 to 470 g organic matter m<sup>-2</sup>. The total standing crop of live plants consisted of 48 10<sup>6</sup> kg of dry material of which 39 10<sup>6</sup> kg was organic material. Chemical analysis indicated that phosphorus and potassium were rapidly leached from the dead plants while magnesium tended to be retained. Live:dead ratios ranged from 0.9 to 2.3 and were lower than those found in regularly flooded marshes.
1350828|The provocative paper by Laird (1961) was reviewed to call attention to its strong and weak points. Laird concludes correctly that when anaerobic conditions in oyster bed sediments reach a certain level and oysters are under stress from one or another environmental factor, then benthic saprobes may invade oyster tissues with disastrous results. This is probably the sequence in many major oyster mortalities. The emphasis, however, placed by Laird on Hexamita as the major lethal organism is questionable. It is concluded that Laird's microenvironmental concept has possible application in connection with the recent "MSX"-linked oyster mortalities in Delaware and Chesapeake Bays.
1350358|Four dead Canada geese (Branta canadensis L.) collected at the Prime Hook National Wildlife Refuge, Delaware were found to have both marked duodenal lesions of coccidiosis and high levels of lead in the liver. Although only one goose had lead shot in the gizzard, all four had levels of lead in the liver suggestive of lead poisoning.
1350697|Various analytical methods, including primary productivity, chlorophyll a, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), bacterial counts, total and dissolved solids, temperature and dissolved oxygen were used to evaluate the direct and indirect effects of power plant cooling water on marine microbiota. Both "shock" effects and changes occurring as organisms remained exposed to the warmer effluent were determined by following and sampling the heated water as it flowed out the discharge canal. The results showed that increased water temperature is having an effect on the marine organisms present. Effects are most profound immediately following heat exposure and their severity seems to be proportional to the temperature of the intake water. Primary productivity dropped an average of 25.9 percent. ATP and bacterial populations generally increased. Chlorophyll a showed wide fluctuations. The results showed that some organisms, such as phytoplankton, may be killed (or at least hindered in their ability to assimilate carbon) whereas other organisms, such as bacteria, survive condenser tube passage and may even increase in numbers as a result of prolonged exposure to increased heat.
1351369|Field studies were conducted on female blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun, to determine the relationship between environmental salinity and the increase in length associated with the terminal molt. Premolt crabs from one locality were retained in live cars through the mature molt in each of three different saline environments and analyzed for increase in length. No significant differences in percent increase in body size were found among the three groups of crabs studied.
1351197| The dynamics of Mn, Fe, Zn, Cu and Cd in the shell and soft tissues of the American oyster, Crassostrea virginica, were observed in oysters exposed in situ to a metal-contaiminated environment from September, 1972 until August, 1973. Zn and Cu accumulated in soft tissues of exposed oysters reaching levels of 4100 g Zn/gm and 450 g Cu/gm compared to 1700 g Zn/gm and 60 g Cu/gm for controls (dry weight basis). The relative enhancement of metals in oyster soft tissues exposed to the contaminated environment over controls reflected the pattern of metal contamination in sediments. Although growth of the oysters, as measured by soft tissue dry weight and shell dimension, was identical, shells of exposed oysters were significantly thinner than controls (16%). Trace metal incorporation into shell was affected with Mn deposition surpressed and Fe, Zn and Cu slightly increased. Uptake of metals by oyster soft tissues was seasonally dependent with rapid uptake occurring in the summer and fall but delayed uptake occurring in the early spring. 
1351196| Twenty-three species of gastropod molluscs, including 10 prosobranchs and 13 opisthobranchs, were collected during a 14-month period from Zostera in the lower York River, Virginia. Salinities ranged from 16.0 to 22.4  during the sampling period; temperatures ranged from 2.8 to 28.3 C. Seasonal abundance, depth distribution, and notes on the life cycles and general ecology of this epifauna are reported. Diastoma varium and Crepidula convexa occurred throughout the year and were the two most abundant species collected. 
1350576|Selected bacterial counts were monitored at two sites in Chesapeake Bay. During autumn cooling (September 1971 through December 1971), at site A (the off-shore site), the total viable count of the heterotrophic bacterial population fell only slightly, but the population changed in composition. The proportion of some fermentative organisms, H<sub>2</sub> S producers, and Vibrio parahaemolyticus decreased markedly while coliform densities did not. The spring warm-up (March 1972 through June 1972) was accompanied by rising total viable counts that peaked at a water temperature of 19 C on May 30. H<sub>2</sub> S producers remained constant during early spring and then also increased to maximum levels at 19 C. The fermenter population increased greatly during the warmup and reached maximum densities on May 5 before the total viable count peak. V. parahaemolyticus remained undetectable until the water temperature reached 21 C on June 12. Results at site B (the in-shore site) generally were similar. An immediate rise in the total viable count of the heterotrophic bacterial population was observed after Hurricane Agnes which occurred on June 22, 1972. Increases in coliform densities were noted also. Composition of the autumn flora of site A was established by numerical taxonomy of 54 randomly isolated cultures. This analysis identified the representative genera of the population to be Vibrio (37%), Alcaligenes (15%), Acinetobacter (7.4%), and Pseudomonas (5.6%). No valid genus name was applicable to the "achromobacter-type" nitrate reducers (13%) and denitrifiers (5.6%); the gram negative, non-motile, oxidase negative, fermentative rods (11%); and 3 strains which were non-grouped. A concurrent numerical taxonomic study was made of nine presumptive V. parahaemolyticus strains isolated from Chesapeake Bay by enrichment in Glucose Salt Teepol Broth followed by isolation on Thiosulphate Citrate Bile Salts Sucrose agar. Biochemical testing revealed only 2 of the strains to be authentic V. parahaemolyticus.
1350487|The medusa of Proboscidactyla ornata is circumglobal in warm coastal waters, yet its hydroid has been reported only from the Gulf of Naples. Through life history studies the hydroid was identified and is described here from the York and James rivers, Virginia. A summary of the gross morphological and developmental differences between P. ornata from Virginia and the Gulf of Naples is given.
1350954|A recurring pink discoloration found at the bottom of polyethylene buckets containing embryos of hard clams (Mercenaria mercenaria) is produced by a red-pigmented pseudomonad. The pink discoloration itself is not a problem, but the number of bacterial cells present is cause for concern. This study showed that at concentrations below 10<sup>3</sup> cells per milliliter of culture of clam embryos the bacterium could produce the discoloration without being detrimental to the clams. Above this concentration, however, either embryonic development decreased or mortality occurred. Chloramphenicol and neomycin were used effectively in preventing the growth of the pigment-producing bacterium and the concomitant adverse effects on clam embryos.
1350605|Two freshwater ponds were studied periodically from April 1970 to January 1971. Both ponds, one permanent (pond 1) and the other temporary (pond 2) are located on the western Maryland shore of upper Chesapeake Bay. The temporary pond became dry in mid-September and remained so until late November. Free carbon dioxide, dissolved oxygen, and hardness fluctuated irregularly throughout the study. In August the pH in the permanent pond decreased greatly with little subsequent recovery. After pond 2 again contained water, hardness increased to over 400% of values before drying. Lists of aquatic flowering plants were prepared for both ponds. Each pond contained a distinct assemblage of zooplankters probably influenced by the amount of aquatic vegetation present. Total zooplankton species numbers in each pond were almost equal, but the temporary pond contained greater quantities of zooplankton. Two generations per year of D. sanguineus were found in pond 2. Eubranchipus vernalis (Verrill) and E. holmani (Ryder) were found in December in pond 2; the general life cycle of these anostracans is briefly outlined. A congeneric occurrence of two calanoid copepods Diaptomus birgei Marsh and D. sanguineus Forbes was found in May in temporary pond 2. Both are of the same subgenus (Onychodiaptomus Light). Various causes and mechanisms explaining congeneric occurrences are briefly reviewed. Slight size differences, insufficient time due to several factors discussed, for competitive exclusion to operate to completion, and partial seasonal separation appear to best explain the present co-occurrence.
1350511|Bimonthly trawl catches at seven stations in the Piankatank River, Virginia, for the period July 1970 to May 1971 included 3417 specimens representing 41 species. Numeric and species abundance in the river reflected a seasonal pattern of species specific migrations with peak numerical abundance in September and a decline in marine fishes during winter. The effects of seasonal migrations by marine fishes and their interaction with resident fishes are reflected in diversity indices. Bimodality in diversity was shown with highest diversity occurring at the upper and the lower stations and is attributed to stability of hydrographic factors in these two areas. Seasonal and areal fluctuations in diversity statistics within this small tributary to Chesapeake Bay, and in other East Coast areas, indicate that descriptive community ecology and diversity statistics must be coupled to be able to assess estuarine fish populations for indications of stress conditions.
1350865| We investigated the toxicity of Kepone to, and uptake by embryo, fry, juvenile, and adult sheepshead minnows (Cyprinodon variegatus) using intermittent-flow toxicity tests. Concentrations of Kepone and percentage of adult fish surviving in a 28-day exposure were: Control, 95%; 0.05 g/liter, 95%; 0.16 g/liter, 100%; 0.80 g/liter, 78%; 1.9 g/liter, 20%; and 7.8 g/liter and 24 g/liter, 0%. Concentration factors (concentrations in fish divided by concentrations measured in water) for adult fish averaged 5,200 (range 3,100 to 7,000). Symptoms of poisoning included scoliosis, darkening of the posterior one-third of the body, hemorrhaging near the brain and on the body, edema, fin-rot, uncoordinated swimming, and cessation of feeding. Adults surviving the first exposure were spawned, and the embryonic development, hatching, and survival and growth of fry and juveniles were monitored in a 36-day exposure to Kepone concentrations of 0.08, 0.18, 0.72, 2.0, 6.6, and 33 g/liter. A significant number of embryos from adult fish exposed to 1.9 g of Kepone/liter of water developed abnormally and died even when incubated in Kepone-free water. Kepone in water was not as lethal to progeny as to adults: 36-day LC50 for juveniles was 6.7 g/liter; 28-day LC50 for adults, 1.3 g/liter. However, the average standard length of juvenile fish was significantly reduced by exposure to 0.08 g of Kepone/liter of water; some fish developed scoliosis. Concentration factors in juvenile sheepshead minnows averaged 7,200 and increased from 3,600 to 20,000 as exposure concentrations decreased. 
1350727|Young black drum, ranging from 15-267 mm, were found in virtually fresh tidal waters (4 out of 86 records), but most often under brackish conditions in the Chesapeake and Delaware Bay areas. The sporadic records indicate that young are relatively uncommon. No relationship was found between size and salinity. Records suggest that Pogonias cromis spawns in offshore waters of the mid-Atlantic Ocean from March to May, and that the Chesapeake and Delaware Bay areas are at the northern limits of the effective spawning range. The larvae probably drift into the estuarine nursery areas thereafter by way of tidal currents, but these may be only a small part of a crop spawned offshore. The young apparently move offshore and perhaps southward again during the late fall. A marked low ratio of records of the young to adults was apparent. Young may be subjected to high mortality from unknown environmental factors; changing low temperatures in spring may be an important one.
1351374|Compensatory growth, the tendency of smaller individuals to catch up with larger individuals, was measured by linear regression coefficients for four year classes of striped bass, Roccus saxatilis (Walbaum), from Albemarle Sound, North Carolina. Samples were obtained annually from late October to March, 1955-1958. Annual scale growth was used as a measure of annual linear body growth. Compensatory growth was shown to occur in year 2 and year 3 when compared with growth in year 1, and in year 3 when compared with growth in year 2. There was no significant difference in the amount of compensatory growth among the four year classes studied.
1350747|Two living specimens of Hyperia galba were observed to hold on and move in an inverted position while attached to the scyphozoan medusa, Cyanea capillata. The mouthparts face away from the substrate and if H. galba is parasitic, it probably feeds on the tentacles or oral arms rather than the bell of the jellyfish. During the collection of hydrographic data in Narragansett Bay, members of three hyperiid species were found to occur on the jellyfishes, C. capillata, Aurelia aurita, and Tima formosa. While making similar collections in the Niantic River, two amphipod species were observed on C. capillata. Two hyperiids are reported from Patuxent River and Chesapeake Bay representing range extensions for both.
1350625| The mineral composition of the Eurasian water milfoil, Myriophyllum spicatum L., in Maryland was investigated to determine the feasibility of its use as a supplement or substitute for commercial fertilizer. From June 1962 to January 1963, samples were collected and analyzed from one freshwater and four estuarine habitats. Results indicate that M. spicatum would not be an economically feasible substitute for commercial fertilizer due to an 85-90% loss in weight upon drying and an N-P-K value of only 3-2-5. The plant grows in a wide range of environment. Specimens of normal appearance were collected at water temperatures ranging from 0.2 to 30.0C, pH values from 5.8 to 9.5, and salinities from 0.07 to 16.4 ppt. Maximum salt tolerance of the plant appeared to be about 15 ppt. 
1350878|Young black drum, Pogonias cromis, were studied from collections made in the lower Delaware River and four tributary marsh creeks. Small individuals (8-15 mm TL) entered the study area in early June. They congregated in quiet waters of creeks and ditches usually over a mud bottom. Nine of 13 collections of young taken in June were from fresh water. Black drum about 30-50 mm began moving out of the upper portions of tidal creeks near the end of June and early July. By August, young were distributed throughout the study area. Individuals began moving out of the lower river and into Delaware Bay by early September, with the larger young usually leaving first. Young are common at times in the Delaware estuary. The largest single collection in this study was 112 specimens taken by seine in a ditch at Woodland Beach on July 5, 1969. Black drum ranked 13th in relative abundance for combined seine and trawl collections in the Delaware River study area in 1968 and 15th in 1969.
1350595|The blue mussel, Mytilus edulis, may be found with some degree of pale striping on the shell. This variation was postulated to have an adaptive significance, with the morphs differing in the proportion of incident sunlight transformed into heat. The hypothesis was tested by studies of geographic variation of the frequencies of the morphs along latitudinal and tidal zone transects, comparisons of sunlit and shaded environments, and by in vivo temperature measurements. The data generally support the hypothesis that striped individuals attain lower temperatures when exposed to sunlight, are favored where mortality from heat stress is common, and are at a disadvantage where mortality from freezing predominates.
1350994|Seven sharks (Carcharias taurus, Mustelus canis, Negaprion brevirostris, Carcharhinus milberti, Sphyrna zygaena, Squalus acanthias, and Squatina dumerili) and six batoids (Raja eglanteria, Dasyatis centroura, D. sayi, Gymnura altavela, G. micrura, and Rhinoptera bonasus) are reported from the Seaside of the Eastern Shore of Virginia. Mustelus canis may be the most common Seaside shark, but young Carcharhinus milberti are common enough to support a small commercial fishery, and the remainder of the species are not uncommon. Negaprion brevirostris is reported for the first time from Virginia; four males taken from the Wachapreague area in 1961. Deep channels and lack of a salinity barrier may explain what seems to be a rich Seaside elasmobranch fauna. The shark fauna seems more closely related to the outer coasts of Maryland, Delaware, and New Jersey than to Chesapeake Bay, although more collections in the lower bay are needed.
1350392|The breeding behavior and biology of black ducks, Anas rubripes, were observed from 1953-1958 on the upper Eastern Shore of Chesapeake Bay in Maryland. Ducks were trapped, banded and marked during the study in an essentially estuarine habitat, which was frostfree from mid-April to early November. The general habitat adjoining the Bay consisted of cultivated fields, pine woods with dense underbrush, extensive marshes in some areas, and duck blinds. Resident black ducks began to pair in the late summer and reached a peak in early April just before the height of the breeding season. Few if any young were observed to pair in the early fall. In the spring the male defended a territory for each clutch, generally using some promontory along the shore. The male remained nearby while the female built her nest, gradually deserting his mate during incubation. Eventually the pairing bond disappeared, although some males probably paired again with renesting hens. Females renested one or more times when the eggs were destroyed or even when the ducklings disappeared on the first day after hatching. At least eight out of 51 marked ducks were known to have renested. The dates of first laying varied from March 9 to March 27. The nesting peaks occurred about April 20. The first hatching occurred in early April; the last in early August. The date by which 50 percent of the nests were started was significantly earlier in 1953 than in 1957 or 1958 but no other differences were significant. Comparison of the peaks of hatching and of laying showed that in 1958 a loss of early clutches occurred. Nests were built most extensively in woods, less so in fields and marshes and markedly on duck blinds. They were constructed from adjacent material (leaves, grass, twigs, pine needles) in shallow basins, which were occasionally used by renesting females. Usually the nest site was covered by honeysuckle, poison ivy, brush, or grasses. Spacing between nests was determined by available cover; sometimes they were placed within a few feet of each other. The density varied from 0.6 to 15.2 nests per acre. The average number of eggs in a clutch declined from 10.9 to 7.5 during the season (360 clutches). Young females laid smaller average clutches (9.2) than adults (9.7). Primary clutches were larger (9.1) than secondary clutches (8.1) for the same females. The incubation period averaged 26.2 days (51 clutches). Neither size of clutch nor season had a significant effect on incubation period. About 5.6 percent of the eggs did not hatch. The fate of nesting was determined for 574 nests. During the six years, 38.0 percent hatched at least one egg, 11.5 percent were abandoned, and 50.0 percent were destroyed (34.0 percent by crows). Although complete and incomplete clutches were equally susceptible to predation, over half (51.8 percent) of the destruction of complete clutches occurred in the first week of incubation. An average of 9.6 percent of eggs in successful clutches was taken by crows. Estimations of production indicated that 100 females would raise 510 young to flying age and that the population in the area would decline if the mortality rate of females from flying age to breeding exceeded 78 percent.
1351298| A 0.5 per cent colchicine solution was applied six times to 50 seedlings of chestnuts (Castanea) during their first growing season in a nursery. About 100 leaves were affected by colchicine. They had less expressed margins, more rounded apexes and were darker green than normal leaves. One or more of these colchiploid leaves were found on about 50 per cent of the treated seedlings, but in 80 per cent of these specimens the affected segments were overgrown by the normal tissues exhibiting regular leaves. For instance, three seedlings of a hybrid C. dentata  mollissima F<sub>2</sub> carried colchiploid leaves interspersed with normal leaves. However, two leader shoots in C. dentata, three-in C. mollissima, and one in C. sativa continued to grow in colchiploid form and in this condition produced winter buds. These specimens will be most valuable for further research leading toward development of triploids. 
1351264|Square meter quadrat samples harvested monthly during 1971 to 1972 provided data on the species composition, standing stock, and net primary aerial production of a salt marsh community in St. Louis Bay Estuary, Mississippi. Although a total of 34 species of marsh plants were identified, Juncus roemerianus, Spartina cynosuroides, Scirpus americanus and Distichlis spicata were found to be the most dominant in all the quadrats sampled. Maximum biomass of alive, dead, and partially decayed plants were observed in July, August and January respectively. Community annual net production estimated by harvest method was 1051 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup> or 5012 ash-free Kcal m<sup>-2</sup>. Total biomass obtained by reharvesting previously clipped quadrats in various ages of regrowth revealed a seasonal pattern of growth rate with a maximum during late summer and a productivity estimation of 1108 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup> or 5541 ash-free Kcal m<sup>-2</sup>.
1350577|Monthly trawl collections from a 5-year period (1967-1971) were analyzed to determine the distribution of fishes in the channel of the Chesapeake-York-Pamunkey estuary. The relative availability of twelve major species showed spatial and temporal interspecific differences. In winter four resident species, M. saxatilis, M. americana, I. catus and I. punctatus were most abundant. In the spring and fall several resident and nonresident species were abundant, while in summer only two nonresident species, C. regalis and L. xanthurus, and one resident species, O. tau, were abundant in the channel. The combined effect of different distribution patterns was that total numbers of individuals and species increased in spring, declined in summer, and reached their greatest magnitude in fall.
1350924|A six year population study on sika deer, Cervus nippon, introduced in 1916 on James Island in Chesapeake Bay, Maryland, provided unique results because of the unusual completeness of the data due to an islandic situation. A density of one deer per acre was reached in 1955. In 1958, 60 percent of the population, mainly young and females, died during January and February. Gross and microscopic studies were made on 18 deer, shot and autopsied in 1955, 1957-60, plus one recently dead at the time of the die-off. Adrenal weight increased, especially in the young, from 1955 to 1958 and then dropped 50 percent following the die-off. Inhibition of growth observed before and during the die-off vanished afterwards. Changes in the adrenal zona glomerulosa and medulla suggested overstimulation and a severe imbalance of fluid-electrolyte metabolism as the cause of the die-off. These changes may have been secondary to prolonged hyper-stimulation of the cortex as a result of excessive population density and its resultant social pressures. An inclusion hepatitis and glomerulonephritis are described which involved all deer, especially after 1958, but not in 1955. These diseases were ruled out as causal factors in the die-off, as were malnutrition and poisoning. The deer were apparently in good nutritive status throughout. It was concluded that physiological derangements resulting from high population density produced the observed effects.
1350941|Seventy-four species of gammaridean (nine undescribed) and four species of caprellidean amphipods are reported from estuarine waters of North Carolina. The range of Grandidierella bonnieroides is extended northward and that of Ampithoe valida, Argissa hamatipes and Corophium insidiosum is extended southward. Notes on habitats and zoogeography are included, as well as a key to identification. Most species occurring in North Carolina belong to an assemblage ranging from Cape Cod to northeastern Florida. Cape Hatteras does represent a significant faunistic boundary to estuarine amphipod species.
1350880|Average mortality of market-sized oysters collected at seven sampling stations within 595 m of a spoil bank crossing an oyster lease was 57%, as compared to an average mortality of 17% on the remainder of the lease. Sediment (2-15 cm thick) commonly covered oysters taken from the affected area. Theoretical mortality (mortality that would have been produced by sedimentation resulting from dredging operations if other mortality-inducing factors had been inoperative) was estimated to be 48%.
1350519|Differential aggregation of meiofauna was associated with the presence of maturing Limulus eggs in a Roosevelt Inlet, Delaware, beach. Nematodes, gastrotrichs, oligochaetes and rotifers increased, whereas harpacticoid copepods, tardigrades and megalops larvae decreased; ostracods, turbellarians and nauplius larvae remained constant. Increase of Gastrotricha was attributable to but one of the several species present.
1351200|Current and tidal records from the Patuxent estuary are analyzed to investigate the response of the river after a two-day period of strong northwesterly winds. The storm depressed mean water levels throughout the Chesapeake area, and the Patuxent, required about two days to recover to its former mean water level. Surface slopes provided evidence for the existence of a long period seiche.
1350459|Based on laboratory experimentation and field observations a study was conducted concerning the possible effects of thermal additions on the finfish and benthic mussel communities found in Cape Cod Canal. The effects of lethal and sublethal temperatures on selected species of finfish and invertebrates are described. Changes in mussel behavior were evident at temperatures well below those which are normally lethal. Mussels from different ecological zones vary in their response to elevated temperatures. Thermal additions affect the feeding rates of the dominant predators on Mytilus, thus possibly affecting community stability. Elevated temperatures were also found to affect finfishes which are normally associated with mussel communities.
1350408|The interview-count creel survey was conducted from July through November in the 12-square mile area around Solomons, Maryland where the Patuxent River joins Chesapeake Bay. Fishermen trolling for striped bass and bluefish and still-fishing for spot, white perch, Atlantic croakers, etc., were interviewed in their skiffs, runabouts, private cruisers, party boats, and on piers. Two types of total catch estimates, one based on personal interviews (I contacts) and the other on postal card questionnaires (C contacts), were made for the five-month period. A total of 50,300 fish, weighing approximately 26,000 pounds were caught by I parties, which, on the average, fished 2.6 hours until interviewed. Analysis of C contacts which represented completed trips (35.8% of those distributed during the interviews) revealed that 167,000 fish, representing 12 species, and totalling 88,100 pounds, were caught. The average length of a C fishing trip was 5.5 hours. Spot dominated the catches (80%), followed by striped bass, white perch, Atlantic croakers, bluefish, weakfish, and other species in order of importance. Estimates from C contacts were higher because they were based on at least double the time fished by I contacts. For example, the I vs. C contact data of fish catch (all species) per angler per trip for the two methods of fishing are as follows: (a) trolling, 1.2 vs. 2.9 fish; and (b) still-fishing, 3.7 vs. 10.6 fish per trip. Comparisons of other estimates revealed further differences. A modified t-test, however, indicated no significant differences between the catch/effort ratios of I and C contacts, hence bias is apparently lacking in the latter group. Scales from a sample of 286 striped bass taken by anglers revealed that 86 per cent were from age group II, or members of the 1958 year-class. Monthly length and weight data gathered from the apparently dominant 1958 year-class showed no increase in growth from July to November, suggesting that the high population density of two-year-old fish depressed normal increments of growth. The average fork length of all striped bass in the sample was 13.2 inches, while that for age group II was 12.8. The mean weights for these two groups were: 1.3 and 1.2 pounds, respectively. Stomach contents of fish examined in September and October contained predominantly invertebrate and small fish remains and incidental plant fragments.
1350594|The Virginia Chesapeake Bay has a large variation (200%) in tidal range (.36m to 1m) over a relatively short (120 km) distance. Analysis of a regional sampling of shoreline morphology and processes demonstrates that decreasing tidal ranges result in increasing long-term erosion rates. This results because larger tidal ranges form a higher elevation beach. Thus, in larger tidal range areas, water levels increased by storm surges have a lower probability of reaching the elevation of the fastland (bluff or dune) material to augment erosion. Secondly, the wave energy is distributed over a greater distance in the course of a tidal cycle.
1351339|Feeding levels of the larch sawfly Pristiphora erichsonii were studied in 3 western Maryland plantations in which 6 larch species and a variety of geographic strains were represented. The data are based on initial observations on young trees. However, significant differences in the level of susceptibility were noted among some geographic strains of Japanese larch.
1351325|Twenty species of planktonic fish eggs and larvae were identified from 75 surface plankton tows made at river, bay, and ocean locations in the Sandy Hook estuary. A gradual increase in the number of species through the spring to a peak in the summer was followed by a decline in the fall and winter. Seventeen species were collected at a location where the Navesink River joins with Sandy Hook Bay. Seven species: American eel, Atlantic herring, American sand lance, winter flounder, bay anchovy, northern pipefish, and Atlantic silverside made up 98% of all larvae collected. Winter flounder were most ubiquitous and exhibited a marked diel variation in abundance. The most abundant eggs were those of searobin and Atlantic menhaden. Larvae of several species were collected whose adults are either summer or winter visitors to inshore waters.
1350485|A preliminary study showed that oysters (Crassostrea virginica) may be gaped for mechanical shucking by use of shock wave energy. Among the devices available for producing shock wave energy, the General Electric Electrohydraulic System and the PAR Air Gun were examined. Results indicate that as much as 87% of the total number of oysters subjected to treatment can be gaped at a rate of about one oyster per second.
1350847|Caged blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus), eastern oysters (Crassostrea virginica), softshell clams (Mya arenaria), and various species of fish were exposed experimentally to different concentrations of herbicides in the field in Maryland and Virginia tidewaters to determine possible toxicity effects. Herbicides tested were principally 2,4-D formulations which showed promise of effectively controlling Eurasian watermilfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum L.), an aquatic perennial, which recently has infested much of Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries. Of compounds tested, only 2,4-D acetamide appeared dangerously toxic. All caged animals died in the milfoil plot on which it was applied. Animal losses in other plots, both control and treated with different formulations, were generally similar and resulted from natural mortality, prolonged confinement, cannibalism, escape, human interference, and in one plot, to anaerobic conditions resulting from rapid decomposition of treated vegetation. Environmental data for estuarine test locations are mentioned. Empirical comparisons of clam populations in treated and control plots were made in 1961, 62, and 63. On the basis of freshly empty shells in bottom samples hydraulically dredged from plot centers, no mortality could be directly attributed to herbicide application.
1350409|Length-frequency distribution and scale samples of spot, Leiostomus xanthurus, were examined from 1955-58 pound-net catches in lower Chesapeake Bay. The scale method of age determination was validated for this sciaenid species. Few spot older than three years were found in the fishery to which they are generally available from April to October. Larger members of the young-of-the-year group may enter the fishery in July. A rapid rate of growth for the first two years is indicated with considerable overlap in sizes by age groups of older fish. Exploratory trawl data for 1956-58 indicated seasonal distribution within the York River system and lower Bay, and annual variations in abundance, particularly that of young-of-the-year fish. A close apparent relation existed between annual recruitment to pound nets and trawl catch-per-unit-effort of young fish. Change of age composition in the pound-net catch and higher than average trawl catches of the 1956 year-class suggest this year-class was produced in dominant numbers.
1350531| Daily temperature and salinity values of surface water at Solomons, Maryland, midway down the Chesapeake estuary, have been tabulated and averaged for a 20-year period. Fluctuations are shown by graphic representation of the monthly means and ranges. Relationship of the Solomons data to those for other parts of the Chesapeake is discussed. Water temperatures have varied from 31 to -0.8C and do not deviate widely from the average annual pattern. Seasonal 20-year means are: winter 4.3, spring 11.9, summer 25.6 and fall 18.2. The freezing point was reached during 4 years of the 20-year base period. The seasonal salinity pattern is rather variable with minima usually reached in late spring and maxima in late fall. Long-term trends show a much greater range than do fluctuations associated with stage of tide, local precipitation and wind-generated water movements. Extreme values are 20.4 and 5.4 parts per thousand. Seasonal 20-year means are: winter 14.8, spring 11.4, summer 12.3 and fall 15.7. 
1351294|Five species of chaetognaths were identified from a series of plankton samples taken from inshore coastal waters off Delaware in the fall, winter, and spring of 1960-1961. They were Sagitta serratodentata, S. elegans, S. minima, S. hispida, and S. tenuis. All except S. tenuis had previously been reported from the waters of the Delaware Bay region. This collection constitutes a northward extension of the known range of S. tenuis. There are now seven species known to occur in Delaware coastal waters, including S. enflata and S. helenae, warm-water species not taken in the present study.
1350563|A pair of suprabranchial or pharyngeal organs were discovered while studying the food habits of the threadfin shad, Dorosoma petenense, in 1959. Plankton was found in these structures and was counted separately from that found in the stomach. The morphology and histology of the organs indicated that apparently they were used for the accumulation and temporary storage of small food organisms which were coalesced into a bolus and later swallowed.
1351224|Four species of Cliona occur on both the Seaside and the Bayside of the Eastern Shore peninsula of Virginia: C. celata Grant, C. vastifica Hancock, C. lobata Hancock, and C. truitti Old. C. celata, the most abundant boring sponge in the high salinity bays of the Seaside, is the least abundant species in the lower salinities of Bayside creeks. C. truitti, rare on the Seaside, is the most abundant species in Bayside creeks and becomes more and more predominant as the salinity gets lower, going up the Chesapeake Bay shore.
1351030|A substantial error in an earlier paper led Miller and Williams (1972) to conclude that there was insufficient phytoplankton and zooplankton in the Patuxent estuary to support the populations of ctenophores and jellyfish. Calculations of a revised energy budget suggests that there may, at times, be insufficient zooplankton, but that phytoplankton stocks are more than adequate for the needs of the ctenophores, the jellyfish, and the copepods.
1351186|Juvenile forms of striped mullet Mugil cephalus and silver mullet Mugil curema fed heavily upon a bloom of the dinoflagellate Kryptoperidinium in an estuarine river near Sapelo Island, Georgia. During the four-day period of a bloom, the diet of these two species consisted almost exclusively of Kryptoperidinium obtained near the air-water interface; with the cessation of the bloom the mullet returned to a "normal" benthic diet of Spartina detritus particles, benthic diatoms and sediment particles. When Kryptoperidinium dominated the diet, the stomach contents averaged above 50% organic material on a dry weight basis compared to 20% on a benthic diet. The efficiency of Mugil in assimilating this energy source appears low.
1350943| The larval stages of Pinnotheres chamae, commensal with Chama congregata, were reared in the laboratory. The culture salinity was 31, the mean temperature 25.3 C. Three zoeal instars and one megalopa were observed. Intermolt durations for each instar were 3.2 days for Zoea I, 3.7 days for Zoea II, 3.7 days for Zoea III and 1.5 days for the megalopa. A detailed description is presented of each larval stage. Observations on locomotion and diet of Pinnotheres larvae are reported. 
1350560|Nassarius obsoletus is primarily a deposit-feeder. The microflora to be found on the surface of sediment of intertidal flats serves as its major source of food. Living bivalves do not form part of the diet as previously reported. Dead organisms such as molluscs, crustacea, and fish are eaten when available but are not a principal item of food. Occasionally thallus algae are probably also utilized. Ecologically, Nassarius obsoletus may be regarded largely as a herbivorous species and deposit-feeder. In the strict sense, however, it is an omnivore and a facultative scavenger. Growth of Nassarius obsoletus occurs principally during the summer months. The winter is passed in a state of quiescence below mean low water. Zero- and one-year classes are readily distinguished but after the third summer the various age groups can no longer be identified by the length-frequency method. The longevity of Nassarius obsoletus cannot be directly determined but some individuals probably live to at least five years. A growth of 1.3 to 1.4 mm per month was estimated during the first two summers in a New England population found in Great Pond, Falmouth, Massachusetts. An increase in length of 3 to 5 times that at the time of metamorphosis occurs during the first summer's growth.
1350355|The following organs from male and female specimens of Sphaeroides maculatus were weighed: heart, liver, spleen, gut, brain, eyes. Prediction equations for organ weight in terms of total body weight were derived. Best correlation was found when logarithms of organ and body weights were used. A hyperbolic relationship between total body weight and brain was presented as more reasonable for that organ than a pattern of unlimited growth would be.
1350458|Two sets of test panels, one in the intake and the other in the effluent canal of a steam-generating station, were submerged at monthly intervals in 1967. The panels were analyzed for epifaunal species composition, abundance, seasonal attachment, and total biomass production. The average surface-water temperature rose 6.3 C above ambient on the effluent side, and the biomass production of the epifaunal organisms found there increased nearly three times that of the intake. An earlier and larger set of some attached organisms occurred in the effluent, but there was little change in species composition between the intake and effluent canals. During the summer when high surface-water temperatures prevailed, there seemed to be a reduced number and/or disappearance of flatworms and colonial hydroids, along with increased barnacle growth.
1350608|Age, rate of growth and the length-weight relationship of the butterfish, Peprilus triacanthus, were determined. The age of specimens collected in September, 1969 from the lower York River, Virginia was determined by counting rings in the otoliths. Four age groups were represented in the sample: young-of-the-year fish (91-95 mm), year-old fish (98-139 mm), two-year-old fish (142-187 mm) and three-year-old fish (174-200 mm). The length-weight relationship for all specimens is: log W = -5.1852 + 3.2646 log L.
1350535|Fishing pressure in the Northeast River, a freshwater tidal tributary of Chesapeake Bay, was very light in 1958. Only 2.4 trips per acre were estimated for the five month period, June through October. Data, collected by one field man who interviewed and counted anglers daily, indicated that the rate of harvest was 0.29 fish per man hour, and that the average catch (keepworthy fish only) amounted to 1.5 fish per fishing trip. Channel catfish, largemouth bass, white perch and yellow perch, in that order, were the most important species in the creel.
1351278|Temperature dependence of glucose concentration in toadfish blood was studied. Toadfish maintained at the same environmental temperature during the fall and winter showed no seasonal blood sugar change. Toadfish groups kept at four different environmental temperatures during winter exhibited increasing blood sugar levels with decreasing temperature and a disproportionately large rise in blood glucose at 6 and 0 C. Weight and length were shown to have no influence on the fish's blood sugar level. A mechanism by which temperature exerted its effect on blood sugar is hypothesized.
1350580|Marine Biological experiments often require controlling the seawater temperature in flowing culture systems. This heating or cooling of seawater is generally accomplished with a heat exchanger and an intermediary fluid. The major consideration in the choice of a heat exchanger is often finding a unit whose material is compatible with seawater, with the culture organisms and with the objectives of the individual experimental programs. Researchers, over the years, have used a variety of heat exchanger types and materials. Unfortunately there is currently no central source of information on this accumulated experience. Commercially available heat exchangers, used mostly in the chemical process industries, have been successfully used for marine research. Some of these are made of carbon, glass, teflon, titanium and stainless steel. In addition, there is a variety of heat exchanger designs that can be readily made from easily acquired materials. The advantages and problem areas with different heat exchanger types and materials are discussed. Also explored are possible approaches for the application of heat exchangers to large scale marine aquaculture.
1350894|The white perch population in the James River declined to near extinction by the summer of 1971. Only several individuals were captured after extensive trawling and beach seining in 1972 and 1973, whereas similar effort yielded thousands in previous years. The commercial catch simultaneously dropped to an all time low. The cause of the population plummet apparently was a massive fish kill in May of 1971. The precise cause of the fish kill was not determined.
1351370| Fish were collected from 18 Neuse River tributary stations that varied in salinity from freshwater to 12.25 . More freshwater than salt-water species were collected in salinities of less than 3.50 . Freshwater fishes outnumbered salt-water and brackish-water individuals up to salinities of 2.63 . Freshwater game fishes were found in higher percentages in collections from stations with 1.75 to 3.50  salinities than in those from freshwater stations. Few freshwater fishes were found in salinities greater than 10.50 . Freshwater game fishes were not abundant in salinities above 3.50 . 
1350911| Photosynthesis, nutrients, and phytoplankton standing crop were measured for one year at 32 stations in a system of shallow estuaries near Beaufort, N. C. Photosynthesis and chlorophyll had pronounced and similar seasonal distributions which roughly followed the cycle in water temperature. Production was generally minimal during December and maximal during June and July. Annual production at individual stations ranged from 16 g C/ m<sup>2</sup> to 153 g C/ m<sup>2</sup>, and averaged 66.6 g C/ m<sup>2</sup> for the 400 km<sup>2</sup> system. Phosphate concentrations were generally low throughout the year, ranging from of 0.00-1.46 gA/liter. Nitrate values ranged from 0.00-2.65 gA/liter, and ammonia from 0.00-4.30 gA/liter. Maximum available nitrogen and phosphate concentrations slightly preceded the period of maximum photosynthesis. Nitrogen and phosphorus were both probably limiting to phytoplankton in this system, but N:P ratios suggest that nitrogen was the more limiting. 
1351297|Annulus formation and scale growth were studied on scale samples from 3624 weakfish from Chesapeake Bay during the period from April to October. Annuli formed on the scales of yearling weakfish from April to August. In older weakfish most annuli were formed in June and July. Scale growth after annulus formation appeared to be rapid for a short period after which its rate declined. The combination of annulus formation during the peak of the fishing season followed by accelerated scale growth complicates age determination based on scale samples alone.
1351102|Along the western shore of Delaware Bay the polychaetous annelid Sabellaria vulgaris builds reefs which are formed of sand grains cemented together in rounded masses of dwelling tubes. They occur principally near the low tide line on sandy beaches in the lower part of the bay, where higher salinity waters, turbulence from wave action, a supply of sand, and a firm or hard substrate occur together. These reefs have important geological and biological effects on the immediate environment, modifying and stabilizing beach sediments, and supporting a distinct community of associated organisms.
1351377|Nine-year-old Japanese black pines, experimentally grown in Howard County, Maryland, from four different seed lots, ranged in average height from 6.6 feet to 8.1 feet; Scotch pines in the same plantation from three seed lots ranged from 5.8 feet to 7.8 feet. Analysis of variance showed no significant differences between the heights of these seven progenies. Therefore, it was concluded that Japanese black pines and Scotch pines in this test demonstrated similar growth rates.
1351257|The porcupine Erethizon dorsatum (L.) has been taken recently by hunters at one location in Allegany County and two in Garrett County, Maryland. Except for fossil records, the porcupine has been unreported in Maryland since 1881. The nutria Myocastor coypus bonariensis (E. Geoffroy St.-Hilaire), of uncertain status in western Maryland, was trapped in two locations in Garrett County. Possible sources of the nutria are farms where the animal is being reared for furs.
1350715|The long-range objectives of coordinated research on the fishery, designed to assess the effects of fishing, are to estimate abundance, mortality rates, and exploitation parts of the striped bass, Roccus saxatilis, in Chesapeake Bay. The first phase, involving the cooperation of biologists of Maryland, Virginia, and the U. S. Bureau of Commercial Fisheries, was a pilot program of systematic tagging and recovery in 1957-8. The nature of further research on striped bass populations in Chesapeake Bay is described.
1351101| The occurrence of Leptodora kindtii (Focke) in Virginia tributaries of Chesapeake Bay was determined from plankton collections made in the York-Pamunkey system during 1965-1967 and the York, Rappahannock and Potomac rivers and some of their tributaries during 1967-1968. Leptodora was found as early as 13 April and as late as 16 September, at temperatures from 9.6 to 30.0 C, and salinities from 5.84 to fresh water (< 0.5). It was taken a maximum of 11 miles below fresh water; specimens in brackish water were apparently strays from upriver. Estimates of numbers of Leptodora in the Pamunkey River indicated a population peak in May. Males first appeared on 19 May in the Mattaponi River, and there was an increase in percentage of males from 19 May to 22 June. The largest specimen was a 11-mm female collected in the Potomac River. 
1350817|The age and growth of 470 white catfish captured in 1963 from the Patuxent River near Trueman Point, Maryland, was examined. Annual growth increments varied 25-45 mm. Oldest river specimens were 12 years. The largest known Maryland specimen from a freshwater millpond was 14 years old. Length back calculations at each age were possible by the curved vertebral-fish length relationship formula Y=63.21+89.64 X+.01 X<sup>2</sup>. The length-weight relationship for the same specimens was best exemplified by the log formula log Y = 1.9791 + .1689 log X. In each case Patuxent specimens were shorter lived, shorter, and weighed less than those from other parts of its natural or introduced range.
1351015|Striated muscle fibers from the body and head muscles of the oyster toadfish Opsanus tau, have been examined with particular attention to the innervation pattern and the characteristic shape and arrangement of the fibrils in the red and white muscle fibers. Methylene blue perfusion, gold chloride toning and cholinesterase localization were used to stain peripheral nerves and their endings. Both preterminal nerve fibers and motor endings show (AChE) activity. Red and white muscle fibers have multiple filamentous junctions throughout their length. The morphology and distribution of the motor endings on white muscle fibers is more diversified than on red fibers. The nerve terminals on white muscles appear as clusters of droplets while on red muscle fibers they appear as finger-like extensions of verrucosities. The innervation of red muscle is more dense than white muscle. Both red and white muscle fibers are polyinervated. Following fixation in gluteraldehyde and osmium tetroxide, transverse sections stained with a mixture of equal parts of 0.5% toluidine blue and 0.5% azure B show two types of fibrillar arrangement. The white muscle fibers show a single layer of ribbon-like fibrils around the periphery of the fiber and many polygonal fibrils in the center of the fiber. Nearly all of the fibrils in toadfish red muscle are larger and more irregularly disposed than in white muscle. The red muscle cells also contain more sarcoplasm than the white fibers.
1351139|The rate of increase in diameter of the rare tunicate, Molgula complanata, on wooden panels is presented. Specimens as large as 26.0 mm were recorded which exceeds the maximum size previously reported in the literature. The first colonizing group settled in July 1966, first released larvae during mid-October, and continued to produce larvae through May 1967. A linear transformation of the diameter of M. complanata by month gave a growth rate of 1.76 mm per month. The growth rate calculated for the second settling population, 0.89 mm per month, was confounded by several variables. Heterogeneous variance existed between months ( <sup>2</sup>=5.313<sup>*</sup>) caused by the continuous settlement of larvae. Factors controlling size and abundance may include temperature, predation, competition, location and preparation of the artificial substrate.
1350543| The roughtail stingray, Dasyatis centroura, is recorded from Chesapeake Bay, Maryland, for the first time. The specimen, an average-sized adult female, was 35 inches broad and weighed 56 pounds. The reproductive tract contained three large heavily yolked eggs in the left ovary and the specimen probably had just become sexually mature. The stomach contained parts of spot and menhaden and other fish remains. 
1350815| Larvae of Rangia cuneata were raised from eggs in laboratory cultures. Lengths increased from 75 to 175  during a seven-day larval life. Height varied from 5 to 20  less than length, and thickness 45 to 65  less than length. The straight-hinge line was 55 to 60  long. A round inconspicuous umbo appeared when larvae were about 120 to 130  long. Both anterior and posterior shoulders were rounded. An apical flagellum was conspicuous on swimming larvae. Neither eye spots nor hinge teeth were observed in larvae. 
1351337|Intraspecific variation in Scotch pine was studied on the basis of 80 geographic strains planted in Central Maryland and 49 in Western Maryland. Eight-year heights of different progenies ranged from 1.0 to 8.4 feet. The most rapidly growing trees originated from particular Belgian plantations and from Central Europe. Heights of the progenies grown in Western Maryland were strongly correlated to the heights of the same progenies in Central Maryland (r = .91). Unexpectedly high mortality in both plantations occurred among some strains from France. Leaf lengths of individual progenies in Central Maryland ranged from 1.3 to 3.2 inches and were highly correlated to average tree heights (r = .88). In general, the strains from Central Europe had longer needles than those from either Northern or Southern Europe. Foliage color in winter ranged from yellow (northern strains) to bluish green (southern strains). This color intensity toward blue was positively correlated to the original altitude (r = .75 to .80), and it was inversely correlated to latitude (r = -.89 to -.93) and longitude (r = -.37 to -.47). Heaviest injury by Nantucket pine tip moth was to strains from Central and Southern Europe. Some progenies from Siberia, in comparison to the same-sized strains from Southern Europe, had only one-third as many attacked trees and one-third as many injured shoots.
1350800|New growth was filed from eastern oyster (Crassostrea virginica Gmelin) shells and wire trays holding 25 oysters each were exposed to the butoxyethanol ester of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D BEE) at rates of either 22.5, 33.75 or 67.5 kg ae (acid equivalent)/h (20, 30 or 60 lb ae/acre). Regenerated shell growth was measured to determine the effect of herbicide application on the oyster. Two sites were used; a double-pond area with narrow inlet and outlet, and an open bay. Plant control was noted. Under the conditions of the study, oyster shell regrowth or replacement did not reflect adverse reactions to the level of herbicide applied. It appears that 2,4-D BEE in Maryland probably can be used safely to clear oyster beds of eurasian watermilfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum L.) prior to fall oyster harvest.
1350839|Information is presented on the abundance, distribution and seasonality of hogchoker life history stages in the Patuxent River Estuary. Egg collections indicate that the spawning area is located in the lower river in salinities greater than 9.0 ppt. Following hatching, during July and August, the larvae move upstream and congregate in a low salinity nursery area close to the salt-freshwater interface where they remain during winter. As spring approaches the juveniles move toward the spawning area. These two distinct movements, upstream toward the nursery area in fall and downstream toward the spawning area in spring, apparently continue at least through the fourth year. As the fish mature they progressively increase their range of travel away from the nursery ground toward higher salinities. Life history activities were determined by monitoring an abundant 1963 year-class using three sampling techniques; meter nets, shallow and deep water trawls. The importance of various segments of the estuary for completion of life history cycles is emphasized.
1350802|Allozyme genetic variation in larvae and adults of the crabs Rhithropanopeus harrisii, Sesarma cinereum, and S. reticulatum was investigated. In Rhithropanopeus from North Carolina, Maryland, and Maine essentially no geographic variability was detected at 15 allozyme gene loci, all but perhaps one of which was monomorphic in the samples utilized. There was also no life cycle variability in enzyme expression among zoeae, megalopa, and adults other than assay differences. The two species of Sesarma, all collected in North Carolina, also showed no life-cycle variation. Three of 13 loci were polymorphic in S. reticulatum, 0 of 13 in S. cinereum, and 0 or 1 of 15 in R. harrisii.
1351108|Existing microchemical and fluorometric procedures were adapted for separation and extraction of beryllium, an alkaline metal, from natural waters, algal media, and algal cells. Up to 44-ng of beryllium were absorbed per mg dry weight of algal cells. Maximal autotrophic growth rates were reduced 10 to 20% by 100 mg/liter beryllium. Between 4 10<sup>-1</sup> and 7 10<sup>-2</sup> percent of <sup>7</sup> Be, a gamma emitter, was recoverable in a liter of water 10 meters or more downstream from the point of introduction of the isotope into the waters of Paint Branch Creek-a tributary of the Anacostia River-in College Park, Maryland. As an aid to sampling a visual marker was placed in the water with the isotope to define the center of the surface of moving water mass to which the isotope had been added. The pH-precipitation curve for beryllium showed pH to be a critical factor in maintaining beryllium in solution in algal medium. Beryllium in natural waters could lead to its ingestion by man, since an alga was shown to absorb beryllium and algae are the base of the aquatic-food chain. Lithium, an alkali metal, was much less toxic to the algae than was beryllium. The maximal autotrophic growth rate was reduced 48% when 1,000 mg/liter lithium was incorporated in algal medium.
1350849|Twenty-five mammal species are listed from Assateague Island, off the Atlantic Coast of Maryland and Virginia, of which 11 are native land species, 6 are feral or semi-feral forms introduced by man, and 8 are marine. The land species are discussed in relation to their habitats which include coastal dunes, fresh and salt water marshes, swamps and forests.
1351028|The use of a relatively small hydraulic tow dredge for sampling hard clams (Mercenaria mercenaria) is discussed in conjunction with a sequential sampling plan. The sequential sampling plan, in which the number of replications was not predetermined, was employed to categorize hard clam densities into high, medium and low classes. Its application resulted in a 70% saving in sampling effort compared with a comparable fixed sampling plan when the objective was the classification of density rather than the estimation of a density parameter.
1350548|The distribution and abundance of surface zooplankton in the Sandy Hook Bay area were studied biweekly from May 1969 through May 1970. This embayment is located within the commercially valuable New York Bight. The volumetric mean of the plankton ranged from 0.2-5.3 cc/ m<sup>3</sup>, with a survey mean of 1.8 cc/ m<sup>3</sup>. A maximum crop of 52,002 organisms/ m<sup>3</sup> was collected in May 1970. Calanoid copepods were the dominant forms recovered in this survey; however, in May, planktonic harpacticoid copepods atypically comprised over 50% of the population. A general salinity classification of the copepods is presented.
1351296|Two successive blue crab instars were examined for size variation. Data assembled from Chesapeake Bay crabs show that linear measurements of an instar may vary by as much as 50% of the mean dimension. The size ranges of the two instars (penultimate and ultimate) that were examined overlap considerably. The average crab size for the instars may change significantly with sample locality, or, at a particular locality, may change with date.
1350612|A low cost, fast response, ducted current speed sensor with digital readout was developed. The sensor output is linear over the calibration range of 0 to 150 cm sec<sup>-1</sup>. Threshold speed is about 1.5 cm sec<sup>-1</sup>. Field usage indicates the device will be useful for shallow water applications in hydraulics and ecology.
1350542|An analysis of the Maryland summer haul seine fishing effort and landings of striped bass, Roccus saxatilis, for the years 1958 and 1959 shows a doubling in harvest with a reduction of one-sixth in seine days fished during 1959. It is concluded that striped bass were available in considerably greater numbers to this gear in 1959 than in 1958, and that the 1956 and 1957 year-classes probably contributed largely to these landings.
1350705|A continuous-seismic-reflection-profiling study showed that the valleys of the lower reaches of the Chester, Miles, and Choptank Rivers are parts of a Pleistocene valley cut by the Susquehanna River during a period of lowered sea level. The paleochannel was cut before the formation of the modern Chesapeake Bay basin.
1350831|A mature female whistling swan was found in a weakened condition, breathing through an open wound produced by a fishhook and leader lodged in its esophagus. This foreign body was apparently swallowed while feeding on eel grass (Zostera marina).
1350439|Two bottom samplers have been developed for rapid operation from a small boat in water depths less than 20 meters. Operation of the Mini-Grab is similar to large conventional grabs. The gravity corer utilizes a plastic tube, which serves as a core barrel. The units are light weight, portable, and quickly assembled.
1350619| Semi-monthly (monthly in winter) studies of the reproductive cycles of 8 benthic Chlorophyta, 3 Phaeophyta, and 18 Rhodophyta were carried out over a period of three years at three different localities in the lower Chesapeake Bay. Of the 29 species studied, 11 are perennial, 6 occur in three seasons, 7 in two seasons, and 5 in one season only. The appearance and disappearance of these algae are closely related to the changes in temperature of the surface water. The annual surface water temperature gradient is 25.6C and the surface water salinity gradient is 6.2. The phenological records for these algae show that the climax of reproductive activity for most of the taxa studied is in summer and early autumn. During that period all Chlorophyta produce swarmers, the phaeophyte Punctaria plantaginea has plurilocular reproductive organs, and all Florideophyceae develop either carposporangia or spermatangia, or both. The Phaeophyta Petalonia fascia and Scytosiphon lomentaria, as well as the Rhodophyta Porphyra leucosticta and P. umbilicalis, release their reproductive cells in the spring. Most Florideophyceae pass the winter in the tetrasporophytic stage or as a sporeling. Like most of the Chlorophyta and the 3 Phaeophyta, these species have an annual cycle. In some of the Ceramiales however, i. e. Ceramium rubrum, Grinnellia americana, Polysiphonia harveyi, and P. nigrescens, gametophytic plants and tetrasporophytic plants are present at the same time in two different periods of the year. These algae seem to be biennial rather than annual. 
1351049|Spring and fall vegetation maps were prepared from a freshwater marsh on the Patuxent River, Maryland. Low altitude, color infrared (IR) aerial photos were correlated with data obtained from field surveys. The vegetation units mapped refer to areas of homogeneous color on the photos. These areas of homogeneous color represent species associations or monospecific stands which produce a distinctive tonal signature. Color fluctuations within an area having a distinctive tonal signature are primarily caused by a quantitative variation of plant species but are also related to the growth habit, vigor of the plant species, and environmental conditions which affect the vegetation and in turn the color of the recorded image. Changes in the color over the growing season reflect plant succession, and vegetative decline. Tonal signatures of several plant associations were due to their unique colors, saturations, and textures. Comparison of photographs made in nearby marshes demonstrated that three of the twelve spring and five of the fourteen fall vegetation units that were mapped can be reliably identified.
1351099|A small trawl and beach seine survey was made, June 1965-July 1966, of marine fishes inhabiting 27 selected stations in seaside waters of Virginia's Eastern Shore. Seventy species were collected, 47 by trawl and 52 by seine. Eleven species are considered resident. Ten species made up 97.8% of the total number collected with Menidia menidia being the most abundant. A checklist of 96 species known to inhabit the area is given with hydrographic and distribution details for each species when known. Species assemblages by seasons for inlet, midchannel, inshore beaches, and tidal creeks are also given in tabular form.
1350469|The occurrence of thermal anomalies in various properties of (aqueous) physico-chemical, biochemical, and biologically interesting systems is discussed. Thermal anomalies are frequently encountered and on this basis, it is proposed that certain temperature ranges (especially 30-33 C and 44-46 C) may exert a profound and sometimes dominating effect on biological activity through changes in the structure of water. The "site" of these structure-sensitive effects in living organisms may be the water associated with various membranes or other interfacial regions, or the water of hydration of different macromolecules (for instance, enzymes). On this basis, general limits on thermal pollution may possibly be derived on a purely physico-chemical basis.
1351040|Distributional data on three species of vascular plants, Melothria pendula, Carex extensa, and Aneilema keisack, are presented for tidewater Maryland. M. pendula is added to Maryland's flora. C. extensa, although previously collected, is reported upon for the first time in Maryland. A. keisack was collected on Maryland's Eastern Shore for the first time.
1351223| A spawning and setting study of the soft-shelled clam under natural conditions was conducted in the lower Patuxent River. Clam larvae and spat samples were taken weekly from the end of a pier in approximately 6 feet of water. Periods of abundance which were correlated with daily surface water temperatures and salinities, indicated two annual periods of spawning and setting. Early umbone larvae first appeared in May when the mean surface temperature was 16.7 C (range 15.0 to 18.5) and a mean salinity of 10.1 (range 8.2 to 11.5). The second spawning period began in September or October when temperatures decreased to a mean of 21.7 C (range 19.0 to 24.8) and a salinity of 15.5 (range 14.2 to 16.9). Setting usually followed the appearance of larvae by one or two weeks. Examination of the gonad of the soft-shelled clam from Maryland waters revealed that the two peaks of spawning are the result of two separate maturations and not a cessation in spawning due to the high summer temperatures. 
1350791|Pelagic eggs collected in Atlantic coastal waters adjacent to Chesapeake Bay have been identified as those of the cobia, Rachycentron canadum (Linnaeus). The egg diameters ranged from 1.16 mm to 1.42 mm with a mean of 1.27 mm. The single large oil globule had a mean diameter of 0.38 mm. The presence of gravid females and the appearance of cobia eggs in plankton collections indicated that spawning occurs between mid June and mid August. Sampling in 1960 showed spawning maxima to be in June and July. Although virtually all of the cobia eggs were collected in the Atlantic, knowledge of the current patterns in the survey area led to the conclusion that spawning occurred in lower Chesapeake Bay or in the immediate vicinity of the Virginia Capes. The color pattern and fin shape is described and illustrated from two juvenile cobia collected in August 1962. Observations made before capture of the juveniles point out that certain adult behavioral characteristics are already well established in the first few months of juvenile existence.
1351327|The following were recorded for 17 Mongolian gerbils, Meriones unguiculatus, which varied in weight between weanling size and almost 100 grams: body lengths, body weights, organ weights of the thyroid, kidney, adrenal, brain, pituitary, lung, testis, spleen, heart, eye, and liver. Results were analyzed graphically and statistically. The thyroid, kidney, adrenal, brain, pituitary, lung, and eye weights vary with respect to body weight in an allometric fashion. The heart, spleen, and body length vary with respect to body weight in a linear manner, following the ordinary equation y = a + bx, where y is the organ weight in milligrams or the body length in millimeters and x is the body weight in grams. The prediction equation which best expresses the relationship of the testis, and the liver to body weight is log y = a + x log b, where y is the organ weight and x is the body weight. It is suggested that the use of organ weight: body weight ratios may be valuable in evaluating the relationship between certain experimental situations and the biological response of a test organism.
1350431|A series of field tests near Wachapreague, Virginia, in 1963 evaluated Polystream and Sevin mixed with sand as a means of controlling populations of oyster drills, Urosalpinx cinerea. Tests were designed to evaluate effects on planted oysters, drills, drill egg case deposition, crabs, and benthic invertebrates. Application of the chemicals to planted oyster beds did not reduce drill populations or numbers of drill egg cases deposited. Oyster production was not increased and treatment had an adverse effect on most species of benthic macroinvertebrates. Absence of drill control could have been associated with mixing of treated sand into subsurface deposits but other factors may have been involved.
1350824| Exploratory sampling of the potential soft-shelled clam bottoms in the Potomac estuary was conducted to define the range and densities of the subtidal populations of Mya arenaria. Bottom samples were taken at depths ranging from 3 to 11 feet with the Maryland hydraulic clam dredge using a -inch mesh conveyor belt. Clam populations ranged from the mouth of the river to Popes Creek, approximately 40 miles upriver. The more dense populations of over 300 bushels per acre were found between Sandy Point and Swan Point, or 16 to 33 miles from the river mouth. Clam densities were extremely variable in this area, and were related to changes in bottom type and the instability of shoal water bottoms brought about by wind and wave action. Sixteen other benthic macro-invertebrates which were collected in 189 bottom samples are reported along with their relative densities and distribution in the river. The pelecypods Macoma balthica and M. phenax were the most abundant and widely distributed invertebrates collected by the dredge throughout the sampled area. The number of species declined with the decreasing upriver salinity gradient, indicating the essentially marine elements in the benthic fauna. 
1351100|The assimilation of detritus and its associated bacteria by three species of macro-fauna which are abundant in eel grass beds during the summer was investigated in a laboratory study. The amount of <sup>14</sup> CO<sub>2</sub> respired per milligram of dry body weight by animals that fed on different types of labeled food was compared to determine the relative amount of assimilation of a particular food. Animals were fed sterilized and unsterilized detritus labeled with <sup>14</sup> C to determine if they assimilated either the detritus per se or its associated bacteria as food. All three species ingested and assimilated detritus. After 3 days of feeding, a small gastropod, Bittium varium, had ingested and assimilated more detritus per mg of body weight than either the grass shrimp, Palaemonetes pugio, or the polychaete, Glycera dibranchiata. Both Palaemonetes and Bittium assimilated <sup>14</sup> C from labeled bacteria associated with the detritus as well as from the labeled detritus. All three species assimilated some <sup>14</sup> C from soluble sources.
1350706|Procedures are given for preserving, storing, cleaning and mounting calcareous Bryozoa on slides. Potassium hypochlorite digestion is preferred to incineration for cleaning because heated specimens eventually deteriorate. White glue is used instead of balsam to fix colonies to slides because balsam weakens with time. Ink or food coloring applied to dry specimens increases contrast.
1351055|The toxicity of malathion and its major hydrolysis products to the eastern mudminnow, Umbra pygmaea, was determined by utilizing 4-day static toxicity tests and 14-day continuous flow tests. Four-day LC50 values in mg/l were as follows: malathion 0.24; dimethylphosphorodithioic acid 17; diethyl fumarate 8.5; 2-mercaptodiethylsuccinate 47 and dimethylphosphorothionic acid 26. The basic hydrolysis products proved to be more toxic than the acid hydrolysis products and 14-day continuous flow tests were conducted only on malathion and the basic hydrolysis products. Calculations of field application rates for the pesticide reviewed in light of the toxicity results suggest that only the parent compound, malathion, poses an environmental hazard to the mudminnow.
1350574|The social behavior of Neopanope sayi is more complicated than that usually reported for totally aquatic brachyurans. Ritualized visual displays, especially the Lateral Merus, are important in agonistic encounters. Fights are rare. During sexual interactions stereotyped periodic movements immediately after the male grabs the female may be responsible for species, sexual, and mate discrimination. Behavior prior to the Grab resembles advanced agonistic encounters, which may explain why males almost always copulate with females smaller than themselves. Females mate while in the hard stages of the molt cycle and sometimes when ovigerous.
1350863| Four species of marine unicellular algae were exposed to Kepone in laboratory bioassays. EC50 values after seven days' growth, in mg/liter (ppm), were: Chlorococcum sp., 0.35; Dunaliella tertiolecta, 0.58; Nitzschia sp., 0.60; Thalassiosira pseudonana, 0.60. When exposed to 100 g/liter (ppb) Kepone for 24 hr, residues associated with the algae, in mg/kg (ppm) wet weight, were: Chlorococcum sp., 80; D. tertiolecta, 23; Nitzschia sp., 41; T. pseudonana, 52. 
1350762|Authenticated reports of the ocean sunfish, Mola mola, from the beaches of and waters off South Carolina date from 1912. The available data are presented on all reliable reports known to the authors of strandings, captures, and sightings of this species on the beaches of or in the ocean off this State. It is anticipated that with the increased utilization of the coastal waters of South Carolina that sightings of Mola mola will increase, particularly in offshore areas.
1351193| The salinity responses of the embryonic stages of the isopod Cyathura polita have been studied. The development of cleaving eggs and embryos from the two cell stage through juveniles leaving the marsupium was observed in salinities of 0, 0.5, 10, 20, 30 and 40 . The role of the embryonic membranes in osmoregulation was examined by various combinations of membrane removals and determinations of freezing point depressions of embryonic fluids in the various salinities. The marsupial stages are the most salinity sensitive stages in the life cycle. Normal development can proceed in water with salinities in the interval between 0 and 30 . The vitelline and embryonic membranes osmoregulate, maintaining concentration differences in dilute and concentrated media. Membrane shedding is an osmotic process and is the developmental event most vulnerable to osmotic disruption. Fluids within the vitelline and embryonic membranes are favorable to water uptake in 0 to 20 , but not in 30 and 40 . After hatching, membrane-less juveniles are limited hyperosmotic regulators. The distribution of C. polita conforms to the salinity limitations of the marsupial stages. 
1351012|An interview-count sport fishing survey was conducted from January through April, 1970, along a one-mile discharge canal of the Potomac Electric Power Company's Steam Electric station located at Chalk Point, Maryland. An estimated 20,335 fishing trips, representing 77,943 hours of fishing, were made during the period sampled. On interview days, 8,758 fishermen were counted, and 4,716 were interviewed. An estimated 58,453 fish, representing 9 species, were taken, with an average of 0.71 fish caught per man-hour of effort. White perch, Morone americana, dominated the catch during all months sampled. No significant correlation could be made between water temperature of the canal and number of fish caught per man-hour of effort.
1351225|Food habits and time of feeding were determined for 220 chain pickerel collected from a tributary of Chesapeake Bay in five 24-hour sampling periods during June, July and August, 1958. Of the fish collected, only eight specimens were older than age group O. Even within young-of-the-year chain pickerel, differences in the stomach contents were noted between fish less than 80 millimeters standard length and fish greater than this length. Invertebrates made up a major portion of the food items of the smaller fish. Fish comprised the primary items in the diet of the larger fish. The periods of greatest numbers of undigested organisms appeared to be about mid-day; but, some feeding occurred throughout the day. Growth and major food items of young-of-the-year chain pickerel in the Severn River were greater and different, respectively, than that recorded in more northern freshwater environments.
1350958|Refoliation in European larches, Larix decidua Mill., after attack by the larch sawfly, Pristiphora erichsonii Htg., was studied on 10-12 year old larches in Maryland. Regeneration (expressed in mg/defoliated spur) was greater in the "edge" stand position than in the "inside" position, in progressively lower thirds of the tree crown, and in limb sections closest the main tree stems. Lengths of elongated terminal shoots of primary branches were progressively greater from the bottom to the top third of the tree crowns.
1350452|In relation to the disappearance of a Ruppia maritima population near the effluent of an electrical generating station on the Patuxent River, Maryland, a broad study of temperature effects on respiration and photosynthesis of aquatic plants was begun. A Gilson differential respirometer was used to investigate respiratory variation in leaves of Potamogeton perfoliatus at 25, 30, 35, 40, and 45 C. This species grows with Ruppia maritima, appears to be more tolerant of high temperatures and plant material was readily available. Plants growing in heated and non-heated water were compared. The data indicate that P. perfoliatus is capable of physiological adjustment to higher temperatures as the leaf matures, since only older leaves tended to respire less at the elevated temperatures. Death of plant material occurred at 45 C.
1350753|Surface and bottom plankton samples taken with a Clarke-Bumpus Quantitative Plankton Sampler at monthly intervals over a two-year period were examined for decapod crustacean larvae. These samples were taken at 12 stations over a distance of about 80 miles from fresh water in the Pamunkey River, through the meso- and polyhaline York River, to euhaline conditions at the mouth of Chesapeake Bay. Some additional samples were collected with paired BCF Bongo Samplers. Planktonic stages representing at least 37 species of decapods were identified. Larvae of Uca spp., Crangon septemspinosa, Hexapanopeus angustifrons, Neopanope sayi and Rhithropanopeus harrisii were abundant in the plankton of the York River system and lower Chesapeake Bay, and larvae of a number of other species were common. Larvae of Eurypanopeus depressus, formerly one of the abundant xanthid crabs of the bay, were rarely found. This apparent decline in abundance of E. depressus may be associated with the recent introduction of the sacculinid parasite, Loxothylacus panopaei, into Chesapeake Bay. Callianassa spp. (other than C. atlantica), Lepidopa cf. L. websteri and Naushonia crangonoides were recorded from the bay for the first time. Decapod larvae were numerous throughout the estuary during summer. However, Crangon septemspinosa larvae were abundant from late winter throughout the spring, and peak numbers were generally of the same order of magnitude as total concentrations of larvae of the other species at the bay stations during summer. The number of decapod species represented in the plankton and the portion of the year during which their meroplanktonic larvae were present decreased with distance upriver. These trends are in large part related to the decreasing salinity upstream, although other factors may be involved as well. The distribution data also suggest that areas of peak larval abundance probably indicate regions of abundance of breeding adults. Larvae of a number of common species were considerably more abundant in bottom collections than near the surface. This tendency of many larvae, especially later stages, to congregate near the bottom where the net flow is upstream may be one of the factors operating to insure retention of decapod larvae within the Chesapeake Bay.
1350752| The low-salinity regimes in Chesapeake Bay that followed the passage of Tropical Storm Agnes produced unprecedented changes in distributions and abundances of estuarine biota. After the initial surge of fresh water from the Virginia river basins, a second larger flow from the Susquehanna River basin cut off supplies of salt water from the Chesapeake Bay and ocean sumps. This later surge prolonged epifaunal exposure to low salinities of 10  to 9 days at the mouth of the James River and about 50 days in the Rappahannock River. The lower sectors of the Virginia rivers, where mesohaline species normally live, were most affected. Oligohaline species such as oysters, barnacles, and hooked mussels were severely stressed and many individuals died, but eradication did not occur. Mesohaline species including all sponges, tunicates, echinoderms, many mollusks, and many predators and scavengers, oyster drills, spider crabs, etc., were eliminated from large areas including whole rivers. Recovery of some species, e. g. sea squirts and red sponge, is progressing rapidly but others, colonial tunicates, yellow sponges, oyster drills, etc., may require years. The slowest will be those without pelagic larvae, and those where breeding populations were greatly reduced or eliminated. Oyster drills are an important example. Certain hydroid and bryozoan species with oligohaline affinities extended their distributions and abundances dramatically. The most prominent eruptive species were in the genera Acanthodesia, Garveia, and Anguinella. This report begins with a description of established communities and follows changes of faunal groups due to freshwater and low-salinity exposure. By contrast, most fouling studies of the past began with clean surfaces. After the initial mortalities, open niches were quickly colonized by opportunistic species, thereby initiating new estuarine successions for continuing observations. 
1350838|The fluorometric method was used to obtain a continuous in vivo record of chlorophyll a distribution in surface waters of the mid-Chesapeake Bay. Measurements were made just previous to and during a fall dinoflagellate bloom. Chlorophyll a values computed from calibration curves ranged from 10 to 56 mg m<sup>-3</sup>. Off-scale values as high as 167 mg m<sup>-3</sup> were noted during the dinoflagellate bloom. It should be possible, with care, to monitor chlorophyll in many estuaries that have very high standing crops of phytoplankton. The relationship of chlorophyll a and fluorescence was significant for both the dinoflagellate and non-dinoflagellate data (r = 0.95; n = 8; r = 0.86, n = 27, respectively).
1351081|In 1971 and 1972, a field sampling study was conducted in the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal and adjacent waters in order to describe the blue crab population inhabiting the region and also to assess the significance of the Canal as an avenue for recruitment from the Delaware Bay spawning grounds to the upper Chesapeake Bay. Field sampling consisted of simultaneous towing of a 25 ft. otter trawl, with tickler chain attached, and a 42 in. wide, lined oyster dredge. The catch of all sizes of crabs was seasonal: in winter and early spring the catch was close to zero; by mid-summer, crabs had re-inhabited the region. Catch densities were higher on the Chesapeake Bay side of the Canal than on the Delaware Bay side. Catch densities in the Canal region were much lower than in Tangier Sound, Md., even though the regions are equidistant from spawning grounds in the Delaware and Chesapeake Bays respectively. The population inhabiting the Canal region during the summer consists mostly of juvenile crabs and is predominated by males. The Canal seems of little significance as an avenue for recruitment of blue crabs to the upper Chesapeake Bay.
1351372| The use of Rhodamine B dye as a tracer material for water movements in estuarine and marine environments has created concern regarding the possible staining effects of this dye on the commercial value of clams. Quahog clams, Mercenaria mercenaria, were tested in the laboratory to determine uptake and retention of the dye. Clams stained at concentrations as low as 0.25 mg/l. At 8.4 mg/l and above contact staining occurred, while from 0.25 mg/l to 8.4 mg/l staining occurred both by contact and by internal absorption of the dye. Stained clams were capable of clearing within 19 hours in natural sea water. 
1350414| An immature female Atlantic bonito weighing 2 lb, 10 oz is recorded from upper Chesapeake Bay near Rock Hall, Kent County, for the first time in Maryland. Salinity ranges from 5 to 10  there. Additional records from pound nets in this region and from the Potomac River, Maryland, comprising 86 pounds, were recorded in August, 1961. A review of the Maryland seaside fishery indicates that it fluctuates from a few pounds to 160,000 pounds annually. There is little consistency in catches by gear and years, which is apparently related to major changes in gear in the area, consumer demand, and perhaps natural fluctuations in abundance. 
1350930|Three very young crevalle jack, ranging from 38 to 41 mm total length, emitted a burst of rapid, short, rasping croaks upon being landed in a beach seine out of the ocean surf. Dissection revealed well-developed upper and lower pharyngeal teeth indicating that sounds were produced as in the adults.
1350687|The food habits of five species of the family Sciaenidae, Bairdiella chrysura, Cynoscion regalis, Leiostomus xanthurus, Micropogon undulatus and Stellifer lanceolatus, were examined in specimens of less than 200 mm standard length collected in estuaries between Georgetown, South Carolina, and Jacksonville, Florida. B. chrysura, M. undulatus and S. lanceolatus did not appear to be highly selective in their food habits; C. regalis fed heavily on the mysid shrimp, Neomysis americana, and on fish; and L. xanthurus was selective toward harpacticoid and calanoid copepods. The food habits of the five species of fish examined were relatively constant with season and location within the estuary; however, in general, larger food organisms were consumed as the sciaenids increased in size. The exception was L. xanthurus which maintained the same food habits at all sizes examined.
1351122|The normal precooking process used in industrial crab picking operations facilitates meat removal and reduces bacterial population. A precook process involving a depuration in 200 ppm chlorinated water followed by an 8-minute exposure to steam at 212F is discussed. Microbiological data comparing this process to the present industrial process (10 minutes at 250F) indicate equivalent bacterial reduction for the two methods. The depuration process alone resulted in bacterial reductions averaging 99%. Crabs treated in this manner, followed by an 8-minute steam at 212F resulted in greater meat yield, better organoleptic quality and acceptable microbiological levels in terms of public health standards.
1351072|The euryhaline colonial hydroid Bimeria franciscana was experimentally exposed to various concentrations of chlorine to determine the effect of power plant chlorination on growth. Colonies attached to suspended nylon lines were exposed to 0.0, 1.0, 1.5, 2.5, 3.5, 4.5 ppm total chlorine for 1 and 3 hr, and returned to their natural habitat. Growth occurred in all colonies and was slightly inhibited in colonies exposed to the higher chlorine concentrations.
1351221| The Delaware, a major Coastal Plain estuary about 90 miles long, was quantitatively sampled for net zooplankton at quarterly intervals over a two-year period (#2 bolting cloth on Clarke-Bumpus samplers for 1-hour tows). The principal species were counted from 20-foot depth intervals and for 13 channel stations distributed from the Atlantic Ocean to fresh water. Accompanying hydrographic data were taken on salinity, temperature, dissolved oxygen, and surface transparency. The estuary always showed a gradient salinity from fresh water to about 31, but strong seasonal pulses responded to changes in runoff of fresh water. Temperatures varied from 3C to 28C in the river, with greater stability near the sea. Turbid river water cleared appreciably near the ocean, and dissolved oxygen levels were high except where pollution loading was apparent in the river. Both salinity and temperatures showed vertical stratification, especially during periods of maximum flow in winter and spring. The total standing crop of zooplankton was always greatest in the estuary, with smaller catches in the river and in the ocean. Seasonal levels of abundance per cubic meter were recorded for about 35 principal species. Among coelenterates, Aglantha digitale appeared in winter, Bougainvillia entered from the ocean in summer, Nemopsis bachei was produced locally in spring and summer, and Blackfordia virginica was sporadic. Ctenophores, especially Mnemiopsis leidyi, were abundant and are suspected to be heavy predators of plankton. The chaetognaths Sagitta elegans and S. enflata fluctuated seasonally but reached substantial levels of abundance. Catches occasionally included tomopterid and other worms, tunicates, isopods, larval and adult decapods, and fish larvae, but many of these were accidental and non-quantitative captures. Small crustacea usually comprised the catch in limnetic waters; Cyclops viridis and several cladocerans were important, especially in spring. The amphipod Gammarus fasciatus showed massive concentrations in the oligohaline zone (ca. 0.5-5.0) during spring and summer. The relatively rich mesohaline zone (ca. 5.0-18.0) was always dominated by endemic estuarine species. The most abundant were Eurytemora hirundoides and E. affinis, Acartia tonsa (the most numerous, persistent, and euryhaline copepod in this estuary), Pseudodiaptomus coronatus and Neomysis americana. Polyhaline waters (ca. 18.0-30.0) characteristically contained low volumes of oceanic intruders, including Centropages typicus and C. hamatus, Labidocera aestiva, Temora longicornis, Penilia avirostris, Evadne nordmanni, Pseudocalanus minutus, and others. A small number of species dominated the catch. Five species made up 89% of the volume (Gammarus fasciatus 54%, Acartia tonsa 22%, Eurytemora hirundoides and E. affinis 7%, Neomysis americana 6%). Three species provided 84% of the number caught (Acartia tonsa 65%, Eurytemora hirundoides and E. affinis 19%). These are the resident species which make the estuarine zooplankton distinctly different from the ocean and the river, and much richer than either. They offer promising fields for additional research. The volume of plankton was highest in spring and summer, and it was markedly affected by changes in the important species. Gammarus was responsible for most of the high spring and summer crop, and Cyclops and Eurytemora also varied greatly with season. Some stability was provided by the year-round presence of large numbers of Acartia, Pseudodiaptomus, Centropages, Neomysis, and less abundant forms. The mechanisms which maintain holoplankters successfully in a flowing hydrographic system appear to involve specific patterns of behavior by individuals or by populations. Especially, these may provide adaptation to the two-layer system of circulation present in this estuary and in many others. Diurnal vertical migration, upstream sites of reproduction, species reservoirs in shoal lateral waters and other unknown mechanisms probably aid in successful estuarine existence. 
1350755|Embryology of the ectoproct Conopeum tenuissimum was followed from egg extrusion to three days and colony development from settlement to about seven days (20 generations of zooids). The cyphonautes larvae are rare in plankton, perhaps for behavioral reasons. Astogenetic change occurs for about 10 days, but some features reach a state of repetition more rapidly than others. The small colony size, rapid growth and reproduction show that this ectoproct possesses an "opportunist" life strategy, particularly well adapted to estuarine conditions.
1350716|Petersen disk, nylon streamer, and jaw ring tags were applied to striped bass, Roccus saxatilis, in the Chesapeake Bay area in 1957. The primary objective was to determine the tag most suitable for a study of movement and in estimating population size. Tag return data were analyzed statistically to test comparative merits of tags. Petersen disk tags were returned selectively from gillnets in some size classes of fish as compared to nylon streamer and jaw ring tags. There was little difference in the suitability of jaw ring and streamer tags to requirements of the study. The streamer tag was chosen only because it was easier to obtain than the jaw ring tag.
1350403|Young-of-the-year red drum, ranging from 20-90 mm total length and one to several months old, were found to be restricted to a shoal estuarine habitat in Chesapeake Bay during autumn months. Extensive trawl data from deep water during autumn and winter illustrate their absence from deep water throughout the bay. It is postulated that beginning in September planktonic Sciaenops are carried from the Atlantic ocean spawning area into Chesapeake Bay by the net upstream movements of deep sub-surface water currents of high density. After metamorphosis to a free-swimming stage, the young restrict their activities to shallow waters which may be important but temporary nursery areas. They may then rapidly descend to the ocean in early winter. Evidence is presented to show that the spawning may begin in August off the mid-Atlantic, a month earlier than was formerly believed.
1351174| Over 8,000 white perch were studied in order to understand the population forces of movement, reproduction, and mortality in this representative tributary of Chesapeake Bay. Scales examined in 3,475 fish showed that the maximum ages attained in males and females were 9 and 10 years, respectively. Sizes attained at previous ages were calculated for both sexes, and the means of observed lengths and calculated lengths for corresponding ages compared well. The mean size and weight of males at corresponding ages was less than that of females. The effects of commercial fishing gear that selected out larger fish apparently produced smaller calculated lengths than observed lengths at corresponding early ages. Growth increments for both sexes were greatest during the early years of life. Most males and almost all females enter the commercial and sport fishery at the legal minimum size of 8 inches total length at around age group V. Dominant year-classes were not indicated by the data. First-year growth of white perch for the 13-year span, 1942-1954, was positively correlated with (a) growth span in the number of days in spring with water temperatures between 10 and 15 C, and (b) with solar radiation in light energy from February to June. It was negatively correlated with: (a) rain-fall from February to May; and with (b) an index of population density in the form of commercial haul seine catch in the Patuxent River five years later than the origin of the year-class (r = -0.753; p = <0.01). The latter relationship suggests that when white perch populations were large in numbers, the individuals from which they arise were usually small-sized; when the populations were small in numbers, the individuals from which they arise were usually large. The white perch is a schooling, gregarious species, undertaking marked seasonal movements. Of 3,024 tagged and released largely in the river, 324 or 10.7% were recaptured almost entirely within the estuary. The results indicated that the population in the Patuxent is essentially self-contained, and that it can be managed on a local basis in the river. Extensive spring movements were observed from the lower and mid-estuary to upstream tidal fresh water for spawning, indicating the population is semi-anadromous. Summer movements were local and random. Fall movements were minor and usually downstream toward deeper water. In winter white perch remained in deep water and did not migrate until spring. None of the fish tagged outside the river mouth entered the Patuxent; all recaptures came from upper Chesapeake Bay. A meristic study of white perch fin-rays from various zones in the river corroborated the tagging results, indicating that the population is homogeneous. Significantly different subpopulations, based on meristic characters, however, were found between other tributaries and areas in Chesapeake Bay. A study of gonad development and examination of fish on the spawning grounds showed that female white perch are oviparous and fertilization of eggs is external. They spawned from late March to May in non-tidal and tidal fresh and slightly brackish water areas when water temperatures were between 10 and 15 C. Males matured at a smaller size (50% at 100.3 mm) than females (50% at 105.5 mm standard length). All males in age group II and older, and all females above age group IV, were sexually mature. The early sexual maturity of males partially accounted for the predominance of this sex on the spawning grounds throughout the season. Mortality rates were calculated from age frequency distributions in the form of catch curves. The annual mortality rate expressed as the annual probability of dying (50%) after age group IV for males was less than that for females (56%). Survival among exploited white perch populations in the Patuxent was relatively good when compared to values obtained from unexploited and exploited populations of other fish species. The apparent probability of dying for unexploited white perch under age group V which are subject to death largely by natural causes is slightly less than that for exploited fish above this age subject to death due largely to fishing mortality. A provisional life table was constructed for adult white perch beginning at age group IV, and the mean life expectancy for a cohort after this age was slightly more than 1 years, indicating that the chance of survival at any age is not very great. Liberalized management, and its assessment, of the white perch in the estuary is indicated by the population vital statistics. Reduction or removal of size limits on a local basis provide the only positive measure for biological improvement and effective use of the population. 
1351227|Three king mackerel each weighing about 27 pounds and about 44 inches fork length were taken in pound nets during October, 1961 off Swan Point, Kent County. These were part of a school that apparently invaded the upper Bay during late summer and fall. Meristic and morphometric data from them were compared with specimens from other points along the range of the species; the differences between them were not great except for tooth counts. The number of teeth cited in much of the literature ranges from 30 to 44 on each jaw, but the Maryland S. cavalla possessed about 60 on each jaw. Vertebral number in each were: precaudal 19 + caudal 23 = 42; these were normal for the species. Data is given on the king mackerel fishery in southern Chesapeake Bay, Virginia, and records of the cero, S. regalis, are discussed.
1350897|Gonadal development and total gonadal DNA of M. manhattensis were studied. Evidence of atrophication and of phagocytosis of residual gametes was found during histological examination. Colorimetric estimations of gonadal DNA indicated that at least two spawning peaks occurred during the summer and suggested that egg release was suppressed by water temperatures above 20 C.
1350363| While most gymnolaemates are restricted to waters of normal salinity, at least 3-6% are able to penetrate some distance into mixohaline water. Of this group, which includes 9 species of cyclostomes, 35 species of ctenostomes, 55 species of anascan and 21 species of ascophoran cheilostomes, the cyclostomes and the ascophorans are least tolerant of diluted salinities, the ctenostomes and the anascans are most tolerant. Like many other groups of benthic organisms, ectoprocts show a decrease in numbers of species with decreasing salinity. Only 5 species can penetrate into waters of less than 3. About 20 species can be considered truly brackish-water organisms, being most abundant in mixohaline waters. Apparently these species possess some means of active osmoregulation, probably at the tissue level. The distribution of brackish water ectoprocts depends not on salinity alone, but also on factors of temperature, substrate availability and the general stability of the environment. Research most necessary before distribution patterns can be explained concerns the salinity tolerance of larvae and adults, larval behavior, and physiology. Also needed are faunal studies, particularly in tropical estuarine localities. 
1351295|Lengths of 14,508 weakfish from pound-net catches in Chesapeake Bay during the 1954-58 period showed little variation from year to year; modal lengths ranged from 220 to 235 mm. Spring catches included larger fish than were taken in summer and fall. Age composition, based on scale samples from 4,516 fish, changed little from year to year and was estimated as: 62 per cent, 1-year olds; 28 per cent, 2-year olds; 8 per cent, 3-year olds; and 1 per cent, 4-year olds. Two- and 3-year old fish dominated spring catches, 1-year old the summer and fall catches. Annual catch per net ranged from 50,000 to 70,000 pounds. In some months almost half of the catch was utilized as scrap. A single year class (1955) contributed about 200,000 fish per net. Before conclusions may be drawn concerning fishing mortality or the effect of the Virginia fishery on weakfish stocks further north, the complex migratory patterns of weakfish must be more clearly known.
1351069|Pre-hard juvenile oyster crabs, Pinnotheres ostreum, were reared from the egg in the laboratory. A minimum of 18 days was required for larval development, after which the young crabs passed through several (up to 10) growth molts during 103 days. Survivors ranged from 0.82 to 1.61 mm in carapace width at the end of the experiment. Mean growth (measured as mean increase in carapace width) ranged from about 10 to 18% of the previous carapace width for each of the first six postlarval molts.
1350517| A simple chamber for use in radioactive carbon labeling of plants is described and used to successfully label Spartina alterniflora. The plant material contained 5.5  1.3 c/g (dry) after a 1-week pulse. The plant was chemically fractionated and the mean activity ( standard error) was determined in four biochemical fractions: fiber = 2.6  0.7 c/g (dry), organic acid = 2.6  0.1 c/g (dry), protein/nucleic acid = 2.4  0.5 c/g (dry), and lipid = 27.3  6.2 c/g (dry). The high activity of the lipid fraction indicates that it may serve as a carbon storage pool in the plant under the described growing conditions. The simple, low cost chamber can be used for plant biochemistry experiments, and for the production of labeled detritus and plant fractions. 
1351164|Abundance of the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, in Rhode Island estuaries has decreased during the last 30 years. A commercial fishery once existed in areas where the blue crab is no longer found. Composition of the plasma and muscle was studied to see if abnormalities could be recognized. Mean concentrations of total sugars, protein, non-protein nitrogen, phosphate, and chloride did not differ in crabs from two contrasting lagoons; the mean concentrations of lipids and total nitrogen were also independent of the population's habitat. The concentration of sugars was atypically low compared with reports on crabs from North Carolina. In the plasma, total sugar concentration was directly related to its conductivity; the concentrations of non-protein nitrogen and phosphate were inversely related to chlorinity. Groups of such correlated tests have predictive value and, when further elaborated, they might be applied to the management of the fishery.
1350484|Sand waves are present on the bottom in the tidal entrance to Chesapeake Bay. As far as known they are confined largely to the northern part of the entrance in an area of sand shoals and tidal channels. The waves found are 5 to 10 feet in height, and 200 to 800 feet in crest-to-crest length. They occur in water 15 to 35 feet deep and are found both atop shoals and in channels. Symmetrical and asymmetrical profile types were observed. Near the tidal current thalweg in North Channel, sand waves are largely asymmetrical and face seaward with the ebb. At greater lateral distances away from the thalweg, symmetrical forms are more common, a situation suggestive of equal ebb and flood currents. With even greater distance, sand waves are not developed, a situation suggestive of current incompetence. In a closed-end flood channel, asymmetrical sand waves face landward toward the closed end of the channel with the flood current. On one sand shoal, marginally-located sand waves face convergently toward the higher center of the shoal where symmetrical waves are found. Sand wave migration is believed to be a factor in the maintenance and evolution of some tidal shoals.
1351173|Descriptions and illustrations of the egg, early larval stages, and young of the clingfish, Gobiesox strumosus, are presented for the first time. The eggs and early larvae are compared briefly with those of ecologically similar species. Morphometric and meristic data are also provided for 95 specimens ranging from 2.85 to 50 mm total length (T. L.). Skeletal drawings of stained and cleared specimens show progression of ossification. The eggs of the clingfish are laid in empty oyster shells and are distinguished from other ecologically similar species in upper Chesapeake Bay area by their ovate shape. The egg number per cluster ranges from about 300 to 2500. A single cluster may contain eggs in several different developmental stages. The diagnostic feature of the pre-hatching embryo is lack of pigment on the yolk and head and heavy pigmentation on the trunk. Eggs hatch within five to seven days. Chances of survival are much greater for eggs tended by an adult fish throughout the incubation period. The average hatching length of larvae is between 3.4-3.8 mm T. L. with yolk already absorbed, but artificial conditions may cause the embryo to hatch between 2.8-3.4 mm with yolk still present. Diagnostic features include a broad head and laterally compressed body with spatulate tail; large, heavily-pigmented eyes; 10-15 stellate melanophore saddles; and the absence of pigment on the posterior 30 per cent of the body. By 12 mm T. L. the young clingfish is essentially similar to the adult in appearance, although some osseous structures are still incomplete and pigmentation has not yet developed into the definitive reticulated patterns of the adult. By 40 mm T. L. the clingfish can properly be considered an adult. When measured against standard length, the dependent variables of head length, snout-to-anus length, eye length, disc length, and greatest body depth are seen to be proportional in their rate of growth. The head increases while the eye decreases, relative to body growth.
1351214|Soft shell clams were blown in the laboratory by various methods to determine the causes of high bacterial plate counts found in commercially blown clams (Ward and Tatro, 1969). Methods to improve the blowing procedure were surveyed. When clams were blown using water and equipment free from contamination, the resultant product was improved bacteriologically. Bacterial counts increased when inoculated blowing water was used. Refrigerated blowing water offered some advantage in decreasing bacterial buildup when the same water was used repeatedly. Chlorinated blowing water also aided in decreasing the bacterial counts.
1350521|A population of mottled sculpin, Cottus bairdi, in the central Delmarva Peninsula (Nanticoke drainage) is the only record of this species from the Atlantic Coastal Plain. Examination reveals that specimens have characteristics of both C. bairdi and the problematic C. girardi. The presence of other Piedmont indicator-species in this general area suggest a relict Piedmont community.
1350974|Ovigerous blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, collected from certain North Carolina waters during the periods June 1, 1971, to August 1, 1971, and May 1, 1972, to August 1, 1972, were examined for infection of the ova with the fungus, Lagenidium callinectes. During the period May 1, 1972, to August 1, 1972, the rate of infection was as high as 95% during the month of May, but declined steadily during June and July with no infected crabs being collected after July 19, 1972. Attempts to correlate infection rate with water temperature and salinity were inconclusive. Other crabs that had ova that were naturally infected with L. callinectes included Panopeus herbstii and Libinia dubia. Ova of Menippe mercenaria were susceptible to artificial infection in the laboratory.
1350611| The feasibility of predicting hard clam abundance in a sample area from subsamples collected with a hydraulic escalator was investigated. Seven experimental plots, each about  acre in size, were sampled and then completely harvested. The error for the difference between estimated abundance and total catch varied from 0 to 7.6 percent. 
1350913|Four varieties of Scotch pine, Pinus sylvestris, were studied in Maryland's Piedmont Plateau (two plantations) and the Allegheny Mountains (one plantation). At the age of 14 years, var. borussica (Germany) grew most rapidly. It was followed by var. hercynica (Austria), and varieties aquitana (France) and septentrionalis (Sweden). The latter two varieties had distinctly smaller heights, diameters, and volumes than the varieties from Germany and Austria. The volume (wood production) of var. septentrionalis was only half that of var. borussica. Var. borussica in the Allegheny Mountains developed more crooks and forks than other varieties. However, the same variety in Piedmont Plateau had a lesser number of large crooks than var. hercynica and a lesser number of injured terminals than var. aquitana. Most productive in early cone crop were varieties aquitana and hercynica. Var. aquitana had the shortest and the darkest green leaves and was most preferred by trespassers for Christmas trees.
1351312|This study is based on about 5,000 striped bass collected from the Roanoke River in the springs of 1963, 1964, and 1965. The relation between gill net mesh size and the mean length of male striped bass caught is linear and is described by Y = 3.41X + 2.24 inches where Y = fork length in inches and X = stretched mesh size in inches. The girth-length relation for each sex is linear, and there is no significant difference between sexes. It is described by Y = 0.67X - 1.12 inches, where Y = gill girth in inches and X = fork length in inches. Most males migrated upstream through Williamston between 26 March and 20 April; most females migrated through between 16 April and 12 May. Dominant age groups were III and IV for the males and IV and V for the females. Estimates of the mean fork lengths are: Males; III-16.7 inches and IV-18.3 inches. Females; IV-20.2 inches and V-21.4 inches. Estimates of sex ratios from striped bass caught in gill nets in 1963-65 were 69.7%, 85.1%, and 76.9% males. The accuracy of these estimates is unknown. The large differences in the sex ratio estimates between years probably resulted from variation in recruitment into the Roanoke River population each year. The management techniques which are most feasible for increasing the value of the sport and commercial striped bass fisheries in North Carolina appear to be (1) increasing the minimum size limit from 12 inches total length to 16 inches fork length and (2) enforcing regulations which restrict the use of gill nets having mesh sizes under 4.75 inches stretched mesh.
1350702|Some physiological and pharmacological effects of cell extracts from Amphidinium carteri cultures are described. Mice and fish were killed by injection of extracts from lyophilized cells concentrated by centrifugation. Cellular extracts of A. carteri increased the development of tension in crustacean hearts while inhibiting molluscan and amphibian heart activity. The inhibitory effect was blocked by pretreatment of molluscan hearts with Mytolon and amphibian hearts with atropine. Such physiological tests and recent chemical information indicate that a choline-like substance(s) is produced by A. carteri.
1350861| The myocardium of the blue crab Callinectes sapidus has the following ultrastructural features. Myocardial cells are transversely striated with A, I, and Z-bands, H-zones, and M-lines. Thick myofilaments are arranged in a hexagonal pattern and each thick myofilament is surrounded by six thin myofilaments. The sacrotubular system consists of the sacroplasmic reticulum, transverse tubules, and longitudinal tubules. Intercalated discs having gaps 40-600  wide connect adjacent muscle cells end-to-end. Interstitial cells are often observed beneath the external laminae of the myocardial cells. Nerve terminals and glial elements are also embedded in the myocardial cells. The nerve terminals contain both dense and clear vesicles. The dense vesicles are round (800-1000  in diameter), whereas clear vesicles are either round (360-600  in diameter) or flattened (350  700 ). 
1350717| Scale samples and tag returns were studied from over 1100 striped bass caught in 1957-58 at six locations in the Chesapeake Bay region of Maryland. Most fish, represented by age groups II-IV, were taken in size-selective gillnets and some by hook and line, otter trawls, and haul seines. Known males ranged as follows: age groups-II-XI, fork lengths-13-37 inches; and, weights-0.7-25 pounds. Females combined with fish of unknown sex ranged as follows: age groups-I-XIV, lengths-6-42 F. L.; and, weights-0.8-49 pounds. Both sexes grew at the same rate during the first three years of life. Beginning with age group IV, the males grew at a consistently lower rate than the females and unknown sex group. Growth calculated from gillnetted fish was slightly higher than normal during the first two years of life, after which there was no apparent difference between selectively and non-selectively caught fish. Tagging results show that the bulk of the 418 (38 percent) recaptured striped bass remained in the Maryland part of Chesapeake Bay. Three tagged fish were recaptured outside the bay on the Atlantic coast, and two were taken in the Virginia part of the bay. The restricted recaptures around the tagging sites, in spite of time free, suggested that during the first several years of life the movements of local populations are minimal. Data is presented to show that larger striped bass moved greater distances on the average than smaller fish. Some tag returns showed that spawning fish returned to the same spawning site one and two years later. Exchange between bay and river populations of Maryland striped bass was not very great. New results have strengthened the previous assumption that the Potomac River population may be relatively self-contained, at least during the first three or four years of life. 
1351267|The American shad, Alosa sapidissima, was very abundant in the Delaware River Basin until 1901. Annual commercial landings from 1890 to 1901 (about 11 to 17 million lb) were several times greater than in any other river system. Abundance declined rapidly after 1901, except for a resurgence in 1907 which may be interpreted as evidence that by 1903 pollution was affecting successful seaward movement of young produced in the Delaware River. Less than 0.5 million lb were landed in 1920. Abundance has remained low since 1920, although fluctuations have occurred. Extra-Delaware Basin fish mix with Delaware Basin fish at the mouth of Delaware Bay. It is not clear how far extra-Delaware Basin fish penetrate upbay, but they do not enter fresh water of the Delaware River. Records available for several years in the period 1890-1901 indicate that 39% of the total Delaware Basin landings came from fresh water of the Delaware River, suggesting that landings at that time were primarily dependent on Delaware Basin fish.
1350771|In the spring and summer of 1964 a salt marsh in Gloucester County, Virginia, was analyzed using random quadrat sampling. Synthetic treatments were employed to evaluate data and were correlated with observed differences in elevation. Floristic data indicate the Virginia salt marshes show closer similarity to marshes north of Chesapeake Bay than those south of Chesapeake Bay. Correlation of floristic data with observed differences in elevation indicates that zonation in the marsh is dependent upon differences in elevation or some environmental factor correlated with elevation differences. Observations of sedimentation and erosion in localized areas indicate that the marsh is in a constant state of change, with extensive areas undergoing both succession and regression.
1350552| Young-of-the-year spotted hake, Urophycis regius were present in the York River and lower Chesapeake Bay between March and June when the bottom water temperatures were from 6.5 to 25.0 C. Hake were not found in waters of less than 7  salinity and were caught at progressively higher salinities as the upriver water temperature increased above 18 C. In April, fish upriver were larger than those downriver. 
1351141|Precipitation data from 31 stations were analyzed for the purpose of determining the frequency and intensity of dry periods. Dry periods of at least 10 days in length can be expected about 4, 5 and 8 times a year for sequences where precipitation for each day is less than .01, .10, and .25 inch, respectively. The geometric distribution provides an acceptable fit to the data for the more common frequencies. Extreme-value analysis was used to determine the probabilities of occurrence of long dry periods; i. e., dry periods equal to or longer than the 2-year value. The onset of about 80 percent of these dry periods occurs during the second half of the year with about 50 percent starting in September and October.
1350354| An analysis of 1,406 shark attack cases has revealed some of the factors that may impell sharks to bite man. Most unprovoked shark attacks take place where a concentration of bathers occur, usually within 1,000 feet of the shore line. Low frequency sound vibrations generated by bathers attract dangerous sharks probably as much as fresh blood in the water. The shark's eye is excellently adapted to distinguish, even in dim light, contrasting shades of light and dark colors, or dark shades against a lighter background, and easily detects swimmers meeting those conditions. When attacking sharks were hit or stabbed, 61.1% were repelled, whereas 38.9% continued predaceous behavior. Sharks have attacked in water from 55F to 87F. Two maps show the distribution of shark attacks for the world. Provoked shark attacks result from a shark being caught, trapped, speared, injured, hit, or in some way annoyed. In air and sea disasters many deaths have occurred before the survivors could reach life craft. Disaster victims in life jackets and fully clothed are less frequently attacked if they lash themselves into a small circle facing outward, with those injured placed in the center. Individuals in such a circle have warded off sharks by kicking them in the snout and head for as long as three days. 
1350917|Juvenile Atlantic menhaden from 20 estuaries between Florida and Massachusetts were visually examined for crooked vertebral columns. Only 12 abnormal juveniles were collected and all came from two streams in Massachusetts. Radiographs showed kyphosis, lordosis, scoliosis and fusion of the vertebral columns. These and previous observations suggest that crooked backbones may be endemic only to menhaden spawned in the extreme northern regions of their range. This is the first reported incidence in menhaden of scoliosis and of kyphosis and lordosis of the caudal vertebrae.
1350718|In winter and spring of 1957 and 1958, 2429 striped bass ranging in length from 7 to 35 inches were tagged in the York, James, and Rappahannock Rivers of Virginia and 675 were recaptured. Fish were recaptured by stake, drift, and anchor gillnets, fyke nets, pound nets, hook and line and an oyster dredge. Ninety-four percent of the recaptured fish were taken in the same river system in which they were tagged. Striped bass from the York River moved more extensively than those from the Rappahannock; those from the James River moved least. Twelve fish moved outside of Chesapeake Bay and were recaptured in coastal waters between Maine and North Carolina. Most fish recaptured in fall and winter were taken in the same river system in which they were tagged, while some of those recaptured in spring and summer moved considerable distances. Almost all striped bass less than 12 inches in length remained in the river system in which they were tagged. The distribution of tag returns suggested that subpopulations of striped bass were present in the York and Rappahannock and James Rivers. The James River fish rarely mixed with those from other areas in Chesapeake Bay.
1351251|A standing population of Rangia cuneata Gray was sampled at one station on the Trent River (Neuse River watershed; eastern North Carolina) 12 times between November 9, 1965, and July 6, 1967. Length-frequency analysis of the clams revealed five distinct size groups, which were recognizable in three or more consecutive samples. From the progession of lengths in the size groups, two growth parameters were estimated in order to construct hypothetical von Bertalanffy curves describing growth in Rangia cuneata. The derived growth equations indicate that the clam reaches its maximum length of about 75 mm in approximately 10 years.
1350610|Microscopic, brown algal crusts and filaments were collected in the summer from an oyster reef on the Atlantic coast of Virginia and isolated into culture. Developmental studies showed that the isolates were microscopic stages of Petalonia and Scytosiphon. These two brown algae exist the year around in the form of either microscopic or macroscopic plants. In culture no sexual reproduction was found linking the two stages of either Petalonia or Scytosiphon. The zoospores from the macroscopic plants of Petalonia and Scytosiphon developed directly into crusts and initials on the crusts developed directly into macroscopic plants. Culture conditions of 10 C and a 9-15 hour photoperiod stimulated the development of macrothalli in both taxa.
1351128|Adult pinfish, Lagodon rhomboides, were irradiated with a dose of either 2,000 or 5,000 R of gamma radiation. Changes in cellular blood components were followed for 34 days in fish receiving 2,000 R and for the 7 days that fish receiving 5,000 R survived. Neither radiation dose had much effect on erythrocyte numbers, hematocrit values, or hemoglobin levels. The number of thrombocytes in both irradiated groups decreased for 1 week and then slowly recovered in fish that received 2,000 R. Leucocytosis occurred 6 hours after irradiation, followed by leucopenia, which was maximal on the 3rd day. In fish irradiated with 2,000 R, leucocytes began to increase after the 3rd day, reached a maximum on the 21st day, and decreased to a low level. Leucocytosis in the pinfish receiving 5,000 R was caused predominantly by granulocytes but in fish receiving 2,000 R granulocytes and nongranulocytes contributed equally. A temporary recovery of leucocytes on the 21st day was due primarily to nongranulocytes.
1351281|Biweekly nighttime samples of macroplankton were collected for a ten-year period (1957-66) from North Carolina estuaries. Establishment of stations, methods of sampling, and hydrographic climates are discussed. Assessment of effects of environmental factors (salinity, temperature, current velocity, wind direction, mechanical clogging of nets, and lunar phase) on sampling success for postlarvae of shrimps (Penaeus) and flounders (Paralichthys) indicates that current velocity and mechanical clogging of nets can have a pronounced effect on sampling success. Evidence is presented which suggests that lunar phase is associated with sampling success for some species, and we postulate that differences in light conditions during new- and full-moon periods may be a causal factor. Variations in temperature, salinity, and wind direction at one station had no discernible effect on size of samples.
1350730|Great black-backed gulls, Larus marinus, were observed to attack and kill lesser scaup, ruddy duck, and the horned grebe in the Chesapeake Bay region during late winter and early spring. Waterfowl predation by this gull has been reported in more northern waters. Such behavior is of little importance in the total mortaility of ducks. Records indicate that, while sporadic in occurrence, this gull is apparently more common in Chesapeake Bay during very cold winters than has previously been reported, and is increasing in numbers in this region.
1350948|Multiple development of eyes and cephalic tentacles was observed in developing embryos of the Atlantic oyster drill, Urosalpinx cinerea (Say). These abnormalities were found in 2.7% of embryos previously exposed to 0.01 ppm mercuric chloride and in 0.4% of control animals. Animals were noted with one to three tentacles and one to six eyes. The most prevalent combination of abnormalities observed was three eyes and two tentacles per animal.
1350488|Four blind striped bass were collected during the 1968 fall trawling season. Age, morphometrics and general condition were compared with normal specimens collected in the same season and locality. All blind specimens were stunted, II+ in age, and generally closer to I+ normal bass in morphometrics.
1350489|This constitutes a faunal list of intertidal macrofauna collected from Long Island sand habitats during fall 1967. A total of 265 animals in 12 species was collected, of which 218 (82%) were members of four haustoriid amphipod species. These amphipods make up 50-90% of the standing crop of macrofaunal animals from aerobic intertidal sands from Maine to Georgia.
1351115|Schools of Atlantic menhaden, Brevoortia tyrannus, have measurable effects upon the estuarine waters of Narragansett Bay, Rhode Island by their feeding, respiration, and excretion. The concentrations of phytoplankton and oxygen decreased and ammonia increased within the immediate vicinity of schools.
1350607|Growth rate of the sand shrimp, Crangon septemspinosa, in Rhode Island waters is directly proportional to water temperature. For individuals 20-30 mm long, growth is less than 0.4 mm/week during the winter (average water temperature 5 C) and greater than 1.1 mm/week during the summer (20 C). Smaller shrimp (20-30 mm) grow faster than larger shrimp (40-50 mm). Linear relationships between length and weight are derived.
1351176|Total iron determinations in Chesapeake Bay off the Patuxent River mouth, Maryland, indicate that surface water layers contain relatively low iron concentrations typical of upper bay areas while bottom layer concentrations reflect high levels found within the range of Atlantic coastal waters. These results are related to the sharp two-layered stratification of Chesapeake Bay in midsummer.
1350632|A tagging study of spot was conducted in two lower Chesapeake estuaries. Limited summer movement of spot was exhibited suggesting the feasibility of assessing fishery exploitation by individual river systems. Two returns from the winter trawl fishery operating in the Hatteras area were indicative of an overwintering area.
1351084|Nest success was determined for 330 osprey nesting attempts along Eastern Bay, Maryland, from 1966 through 1974. Young were fledged in 45 percent of the nesting attempts on offshore structures and in only 24 percent of the attempts in trees. The average number of young fledged per active nest was 0.71. This average is among the poorest in the country, it is appreciably lower than that of adjacent areas studied in the Chesapeake Bay and it is well below the ratio estimated to be necessary for population stability. Known causes for loss of nests, eggs and young are documented.
1350396|Detailed illustrations of the early larval development of the oyster toadfish, Opsanus tau (Linnaeus), are presented for the first time to show variation in size and morphology, sequence of fin formation and yolk absorption. Eggs, 5 mm in diameter, were attached to a substrata by an adhesive disk and hatched into larvae about 7.0 mm T. L. They were studied through essentially prolarval growth until about 19.0 mm T. L. and 20 days old. Prominent features were the large stalk-like yolk sac and a pectoral-pelvic fin apparatus position shift. The color pattern was apparent at 16.4 mm. Head, snout-anus and eye lengths compared with total length showed proportional growth. Body depth-total length showed non-proportional growth. The full complement of various fin rays was apparently attained at these total lengths: pectoral-17.1 mm; spinous dorsal-10.8 mm; soft dorsal-12.8 mm; anal-12.8 mm; and caudal-probably at 18.0 mm.
1350993|Growth of coliform bacteria, Escherichia coli, E. freundii, and Aerobacter aerogenes, isolated from the soft-shelled clam, Mya arenaria, in estuarine water samples, were compared with growth in distilled water. The possible antibacterial properties exhibited by the sediment-water interface as compared to the same properties in the overlying waters were also measured. Water samples were taken from the same habitat as the clam in late July and early August in the lower Patuxent River estuary. Better growth for the three organisms occurred in natural estuarine waters than in distilled water while sediment-water interfaces tended to be less favorable to growth than the overlying water. Antibacterial properties at the interface were suggested by several different indicators. The results show that estuarine water does not preclude the multiplication of coliform organisms in commercial shellfish.
1350404|Nineteen species of fish new or of recent occurrence (1957-60) to the fish fauna of the upper portion of Chesapeake Bay, Maryland, are presented. Abundance, size, lateness of occurrence, and/or ecological conditions are discussed.
1350873| The invertebrate epifauna occurring on Zostera marina L. in the lower York River, Virginia, was sampled with the aid of SCUBA for 14 consecutive months. A collecting station was located at each of three different water depths within a single eelgrass bed. A total of 112 invertebrate species was collected. The five most abundant non-colonial species (Bittium varium, Paracerceis caudata, Crepidula convexa, Ampithoe longimana and Erichsonella attenuata) accounted for approximately 59% of the total fauna. These species dominated the epifauna throughout most of the year. Several other species, including Balanus improvisus, Molgula manhattensis, Polydora ligni and Ercolania fuscata, were abundant for only brief periods. A relatively high average index of affinity (58%) between all synchronous sample pairs indicated a generally homogeneous fauna, although several species were differentially distributed with depth. Exfoliation of Zostera after June caused a steady decline in plant biomass, but the abundance of epifauna continued to increase into the summer and fall. Lowest total numbers and species counts occurred in February and early March. Diversity values (H) ranged from 1.92 to 3.90 bits/individual and averaged 3.04 bits/individual for all stations. High species numbers in summer were generally counteracted by relatively low equitabilities (), with H showing little seasonal change. The primary sources of nutrition for the epifauna appeared to be 1) plankton and suspended particulate matter, 2) detritus and microorganisms on the plant blades, and 3) epiphytic algae. 
1350959|In this study, we have developed bacteriological quality control standards for depurated soft shell clams, Mya arenaria. The concept of a "0" hour control is adopted to allow more flexibility of operation and an opportunity for further testing during the depuration process.
1351010|Population trends of the Atlantic croaker, Micropogon undulatus, the weakfish, Cynoscion regalis and the spot, Leiostomus xanthurus are described from historical catch records. Croaker populations north of Cape Hatteras increased from low levels at the beginning of the century to a high level in the early 1940's, but declined precipitously thereafter. It is suggested that climatic factors were more likely responsible than was fishing effort. Weakfish stocks were high at the beginning of the century and remained so through the 1930's. The dramatic decline since that time seems to be related to over-exploitation in part, but may also have been influenced by the widespread use of DDT. Spot stocks appear to have declined in the northern part of the range, but Chesapeake Bay populations show only the random year-to-year fluctuations typical of a short life cycle species.
1350500|Chesapeake Bay annually contributes a large percentage of all the striped bass produced in North America. For many years, the lower Susquehanna River was considered the major spawning area in the Bay. Recent evidence suggests that the areas of greatest egg abundance, as well as commercial fishing for striped bass in the upper bay, now occur along the main navigational channel from Worton Point to Chesapeake City on the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal. This shift has apparently resulted from major environmental alterations which have occurred in the last 90 years. The construction of the C & D Canal, at the head of Chesapeake Bay, has increased the total area suitable for species propagation and commercial fishing activities.
1350852|Five species of caprellid amphipods occur in Virginia waters: Aeginina longicornis, Hemiaegina minuta, Paracaprella tenuis, Caprella equilibra, and Caprella geometrica. Though all are offshore species, the latter three commonly occur within Chesapeake Bay. Deutella abracadabra is placed as a junior synonym of Paracaprella tenuis and the name Caprella geometrica is assigned to the "acutifrons" form found along the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coasts of the United States.
1350816|Middle and Back Rivers are two adjacent Chesapeake Bay estuaries located near Baltimore, Maryland. Preliminary observations suggested that Middle River was typical of most local estuaries, while Back River exhibited several atypical characteristics. This study was undertaken to compare various ecological parameters in an attempt to document and explain any differences found in the two estuaries. Sampling stations were established at three locations in each estuary while a single station was established in Chesapeake Bay. Sampling trips were conducted at approximately weekly intervals between March and September, 1964. Observations were made on water temperature, salinity, hydrogen ion concentration, methyl orange and phenolphthalein alkalinity, free carbon dioxide, and dissolved oxygen. Net plankton samples were collected and returned to the laboratory for identification and counting in a Sedgewick-Rafter chamber. Concentrations of chlorophyll a, b, and c as well as astacin and nonastacin type pigments in each estuary were measured. Mean water temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, pH, and methyl orange and phenolphthalein alkalinity were significantly higher, and mean salinity and free carbon dioxide were significantly lower in Back River. Back River exhibited net plankton counts significantly higher than those for Middle River. Zooplankton was less abundant than phytoplankton in Back River, while an opposite condition existed in Middle River. No differences were observed in the genera of plankton found in the two estuaries. Total pigment as well as chloroyhyll a, b and nonastacin type pigment concentration measurements for Back River were significantly higher than similar measurements for Middle River. Phytoplankton appeared to be the dominant ecological factor in Back River and accounted for the high dissolved oxygen concentrations, high pH, high phenolphthalein alkalinity, and low free carbon dioxide values recorded in that estuary.
1351111|More than 800 white perch, Morone americana, were collected from each of two major tributaries of southern Chesapeake Bay to compare age structures, growth and mortality rates. The James River is characterized by heavy domestic and industrial pollution in several tributaries and segments, whereas the York River is only slightly polluted. Maximum ages determined by scale analysis were 7 and 10 years for males and females in both rivers. Yearling perch in the York River appeared to have a significantly greater mean length than those from the James but this difference is largely due to sampling bias. Both sexes of white perch from the James River were significantly larger than perch from the York River at ages II and III. However mean lengths of white perch from age groups IV and older were not significantly different between rivers for either sex. In both rivers females were significantly longer (to age V) and heavier (all ages) than males of comparable age. Yearly growth increments were greatest early in life. All year classes of white perch followed a similar growth pattern during their first year in both estuaries. However for later years of life earlier year classes apparently had a greater mean length than those from more recent years at comparable ages. Males were more abundant than females for the first 3 years of life in both rivers, however, females were present in significantly greater numbers in all older age groups. Analysis of relative age frequency suggested dominant year classes in 1964 and 1965 in the James River, and a weak year class in 1968. No dominant year classes were apparent from the York River collections. Mortality rates were calculated from age frequency distributions. Total annual mortality in the James River was about 69% for males after age IV and for females after age VI. In the York River, males at age III and older die at a rate of 59%, whereas females older than age V have an annual mortality of 57%.
1350759|Activities of two populations of the oyster borer, Urosalpinx cinerea follyensis Baker, deprived of hibernation in warmed running seawater are described. Seawater was warmed in a nontoxic system lacking moving mechanical parts. Survival, addition of shell, crawling, turning over; identification, mounting, boring, and consumption of Crassostrea virginica and Mytilus edulis; pH of secretion of the accessory boring organ; size and shape of boreholes; deposition and form of egg capsules and development of young, appeared normal. Relatively constant environmental conditions for prolonged periods made the snails sluggish. While maximum deposition of egg capsules occurred in July, small clusters were oviposited sporadically during the remainder of the year. Successful growth and reproduction in the absence of hibernation demonstrated that this snail, unless carefully controlled, could become a serious predator in ponds warmed by coolant seawater from power stations for shellfish culture.
1351110|The status of mud crabs of the family Xanthidae previously referred to Neopanope texana texana (Stimpson, 1859) and N. texana sayi (Smith, 1869) is reviewed. It is concluded, based on the examination of types and other material, that both are distinct species allopatric in distribution; N. texana occurring in the Gulf of Mexico and N. sayi occurring along the east coast of North America. Both species are compared to N. packardii (Kingsley, 1879) and a key to the genus Neopanope in the western Atlantic is presented. Diagnostic characters of the species are illustrated.
1351249|A 1966 summer survey on fish fauna was made in the upper Patuxent River to evaluate the effect of sewage pollution on fish with respect to species diversity and abundance. Results of this study indicate that chlorinated sewage effluent acts first as a toxic material which seriously reduces fish species diversity and abundance immediately below the effluent outfalls. It also enriches and deoxygenates the water, causing a species shift without affecting species diversity downstream.
1351194|During one year, growth and mortality of the salt marsh gastropod, Littorina irrorata, were examined at three levels of population density within three salt marshes in the Morehead City region of North Carolina. Density was manipulated by enclosures. The standing crop of the dominant vegetation Spartina alterniflora differed among the three marshes. Overall weight gain of Littorina differed among marshes, density treatments, and three size classes of snails. Weight gain in the smallest individuals was significantly different among the three marsh areas, but not the density treatments. For intermediate-sized individuals, growth rate differences occurred only in response to the density treatments. In adults, weight gain was different in the three marshes, but the density treatments had little effect. Within-cage mortality appeared independent of the density treatments, but significantly different among the three marshes. Computed equations characterized average annual growth in shell width of Littorina irrorata in the three marshes.
1350772|The Delaware River was historically an important spawning and nursery area for striped bass, particularly in and near tidal fresh water. Collections of fishes throughout the freshwater sections from 1963 to 1966 by techniques that included continuously fishing traps and large and small meshed seines contained no striped bass, and few specimens were collected in rotenone surveys from 1960 to 1962. Gross pollution of the tidal freshwater area has destroyed its potential as a spawning and nursery area, has resulted in the virtual extirpation of the striped bass from there and upstream waters, and is the probable cause of the decline in abundance of this species in the Delaware River. Major restoration of striped bass would occur if pollution is decreased so that the tidal freshwater section can resume its former importance as a spawning and nursery area.
1350960|Anionic detergents added to samples of water from Chesapeake Bay were degraded during laboratory incubation. The following substances were biodegradable: sodium dodecyl sulfate, sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate (DBS), and three commercial laundry products. Oxidation of DBS, which was accompanied by oxygen uptake, occurred only with initial concentrations less than 25 ppm. The rate of DBS decomposition was maximal at 25-30 C and decreased with lower incubation temperatures.
1351048|The phosphorus distribution in the open waters of the Chesapeake Bay is described. Maxima of soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) in deep water and total phosphorus in the euphotic zone occur in late summer. The maximum of SRP occurs concurrently with both the seasonal high in productivity in the surface waters and the seasonal depletion of dissolved oxygen in the deep water. It is suggested that, at this season, phosphate that is produced by remineralization of organic matter escapes precipitation as the ferric salt due to the anoxic conditions and is vertically transported into the euphotic zone where it is rapidly converted into particulate phosphorus by algae. Trophic condition with respect to phosphorus in the open Bay near Annapolis appears to have been unchanged during the period 1938 to 1973.
1350996|The occurrence of an immature female little piked whale, found stranded July 12, 1959, at Dares Beach, Chesapeake Bay, Maryland, sheds new light on the summer range of this species. This cetacean has never been recorded in Chesapeake Bay before. Osteological and body measurement comparisons between this and an immature and adult specimen are discussed. The croaker, Micropogon undulatus, constitutes a new food item of this whale.
1350618|The histopathology of Crassostrea virginica parasitized by the sporocysts of Bucephalus sp. is studied. Unlike the condition reported in C. virginica parasitized by B. cuculus further south along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, the primary site of infection in oysters taken during June and July, 1964, from Ninigret Pond, Washington County, Rhode Island, is the digestive gland rather than the gonads. The young sporocysts are carried to the intertubular spaces in the digestive gland from the gut via blood vessels. Destruction of the digestive diverticula is believed to have resulted from both mechanical pressure and physiological degradation. Only in heavy and older infections are large numbers of sporocyst branches found in the gonads. Ova present in parasitized ovaries are reabsorbed. In extremely heavy infections, sporocysts are found in the palps, gills, and mantle in addition to the digestive gland and gonads. In the first three structures, destruction appears to be by mechanical pressure alone. No increase in the number of amoebocytes occur in parasitized digestive glands or gonads. Slight increases occur in the connective tissues associated with the palps, gills, and mantle, although no phagocytosis or encapsulation occur.
1351053|The last decade has seen the development and application of a spectrum of physical and numerical hydrographic models of the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries. The success of the James River Hydraulic Model has initiated the construction of an estuarine hydraulic model of the entire Chesapeake System. Numerical analogues for hydrographic behavior and contaminant dispersion in one-, two-, and three-dimensional model estuaries exist for various regions of the Bay. From an engineering viewpoint, one-dimensional models are sufficiently advanced to be routinely employed in aiding management decisions. Bay investigators are playing leading roles in the development of two- and three-dimensional models of estuarine flows.
1351157| Total phosphorus concentrations were determined in rainwater collected at the Bayside Laboratory, Lewes, Delaware from February 1966 through January 1967. The mean concentration of winter-spring rainwater was 4.9 g A/liter, that of summer rainwater increased to 150 g A/liter, and fall-winter levels decreased to 8.1 g A/liter. This phenomenon may account for atypical phosphorus cycles noted in estuarine areas. 
1351086|Power plants chlorinate their cooling waters to prevent biological fouling of condenser tube walls. We studied the effects of chlorine on in situ net primary production in the discharge waters of a power plant at Crystal River, Florida. Primary production values decreased an average of 57% due to plant passage and chlorination. In the absence of chlorine, the average decrease was 13%.
1351324|A study was made on mysid species composition, reproductive periods, and diurnal and seasonal abundance in Indian River Inlet, Delaware. Neomysis americana was present in the surface plankton throughout the year and was the dominant species, averaging 80% of the mysid population. This species was most numerous in surface waters during hours of darkness and seasonally was most abundant from April through September. It may possibly produce three generations per year-two short-lived summer generations and a longer-lived winter generation. Mysidopsis bigelowi was also present through the year. It averaged 17% of the mysid population and was sporadically abundant from September through February. It reproduces from April through November. Metamysidopsis munda and Gastrosaccus dissimilis were infrequently collected and together averaged less than 3% of the mysid population. They were encountered only in late summer and fall, during which time egg-bearing females or larvae were observed. Mysids are extremely abundant in these Delaware waters and there is evidence that they serve as an important source of food for fish populating these inshore waters during the warmer months.
1351384|Three size-groups of soft-shell clams, Mya arenaria, averaging 45, 60, and 74 mm in shell length were placed in aquaria and their rate of reburrowing measured. The substrate in each aquarium consisted of sand particles: (I) less than 0.5 mm, (II) 0.5 to 1 mm, (III) 1 to 2 mm, (IV) 2 to 4 mm, and (V) an equal combination of the previous 4 sizes. New specimens were tested at every 5 C rise or fall in ambient water temperature and observations were made periodically for 48 hours. The three variables, water temperature, clam size, and sediment particle size were highly significant (1% level), in influencing clam reburial activities by the end of the second hour through the termination of the experiment 48 hours later. Optimum water temperatures for reburrowing were between 8.8 and 21 C. After 48 hours, 62% of the small, 39% of the medium, and 21% of the large clams had reburrowed in all experimental tests combined. The aquarium with less than 0.5 mm substrate particle size had the greatest percentage of reburrowed clams of each size. As the particle size increased, progressively less reburrowing took place. Most reburrowing took place between 4 and 8 hours after the start of the experiment.
1350944| Male rock crabs, Cancer irroratus, were collected from the lower Chesapeake Bay during the winter dredge seasons of 1970-1973. Crabs migrate into Chesapeake Bay in late fall, molt extensively in January, remain in papershell condition until late March and April and leave the bay in May. Most crabs held in the laboratory molted in January, only 18% in February, thus confirming the pattern observed in the field. The molting season of male rock crabs appears to be related to decreasing seawater temperature. Signs of an approaching molt were determined by examining the mouth parts microscopically, and by testing the resiliency of the shell in the vicinity of the ecdysial suture line. Crabs larger than 100 mm carapace width did not molt. Progression of crabs through the intermolt cycle was dependent on temperature: crabs held at 17.5 C advanced from hardshell ( C<sub>4</sub>) to papershell ( B<sub>2</sub>) in one-third the time required for crabs held at 7 C. Most water uptake and weight change occurred between advanced peeler ( D<sub>4</sub>) and soft crab ( A<sub>2</sub>) stages; mean percent water content ranged from 67% for C<sub>4</sub> to 87% for A<sub>2</sub> stages. Mean percent increase in weight ranged from 52 to 59% in relation to size. Progressive growth occurred in length, width and weight; percent increment ranged from 18 to 23 for length, 19 to 27 for width and 52 to 82 for weight. Width-weight relationships of premolt and postmolt crabs were significantly different. Temperature-salinity tolerance experiments revealed that more crabs survived in 7 C than in 17.5 C. Stage B<sub>1</sub>- B<sub>2</sub> crabs exhibited the highest survival and C<sub>1</sub>- C<sub>2</sub> crabs the least. Maximum survival occurred within the salinity range 14-21. Papershell crabs were isosmotic to polyhaline salinities but were hyperosmotic at lower salinities. Those acclimated at 7 C approached isosmoticity near 28-30. Warm acclimated crabs were isosmotic near 24-26 but showed limited hyperregulation at salinities less than 20. 
1350746|Ephippial eggs of the waterflea, Daphnia pulex, from two strains, were immersed in a synthetic pond medium and incubated under low intensity fluorescent light. Ephippia were also desiccated or soaked in 1.0% solution of sodium hypochlorite preliminary to incubation. When incubated with light for a period of 100 days, 40.0 or 50.0% of the eggs hatched as compared to a range of 0.0 to 2.0% hatch in the dark. Ephippia cultured in the laboratory required several weeks of storage at room temperatures before enclosed eggs responded to light. A preliminary soaking in hypochlorite abbreviated the storage requirement. Desiccation reduced the hatching rate. Response of the ephippial eggs collected from a lake suggested a need for additional storage or another stimulus before becoming sensitive to light. Ephippia from D. ambigua also responded to light.
1351033|Oyster toadfish Opsanus tau (L.) captured at four localities between 1958 and 1963 were tagged with monel strap opercular tags to study their movements about Solomons, Maryland. Of 2928 fish captured, 1791 were tagged, most recaptures were at the original tagging site or as long as 1134 days later; however, movements up to 8.9 km from the original capture site were recorded. Toadfish exhibit a bi-seasonal movement which is associated with two spawning periods. On the basis of movement and catch-per-unit-of-effort data, toadfish are found to be much less sedentary than was formerly thought.
1350455|The response of fresh-water protozoan communities exposed to both severe acute temperature shocks as well as small gradual long-term increases are discussed. The former experiments were carried out in plastic troughs with a constant flow of unfiltered lake water. Severe acute shocks (some to nearly 50 C) resulted in a marked reduction in number of species present. However, recovery was quite rapid (a matter of a few days) once the temperature stress ceased. Observations of the effects of small gradual long-term increases were made on the protozoan communities of the Savannah and Potomac rivers each of which received heated waste water discharges. Each of these studies covered a period in excess of nine years and observations are still being made. At the time the paper was prepared there was no evidence that indicated the protozoan communities of these rivers had been degraded by the small gradual temperature increases resulting from the discharge of heated waste waters. However, there is evidence that competitive exclusion of algal species by other more tolerant algal species may cause qualitative shifts in the community structure which may be undesirable. It is probable that similar shifts occur in protozoan communities-a factor which should be considered in future studies.
1350858|Historical records indicate that Flax Pond, a small Spartina alterniflora marsh located on the north shore of Long Island, New York, was opened to marine waters in 1803. This opening is recorded in the sediments by a sharp transition from sedge (brackish or fresh water) peat to Spartina (salt marsh) peat. This dated horizon was used to calculate an average net rate of vertical accretion of 2.5 mm/yr and a maximum net rate of 4.7 mm/yr. These estimates may serve to predict the rate at which Spartina marshes are able to recover from physical disturbance.
1351181|Macrofaunal dominant populations of intertidal haustoriid amphipods at Sapelo Island, Georgia, show little change in zonation accompanying the passage of two hurricanes despite observed changes in beach morphology. Fluctuations in abundance of two species were correlated with life cycle events. Some mortality of amphipods probably occurred where large volumes of freshwater overflowed the sand beach. Protection from surf by nearshore shoals, behavioral factors, and the increase in number of species on protected beaches, are important factors providing checks on violent fluctuations and displacement of haustoriid populations.
1351283|An inexpensive, non-electrical current measuring device has been developed and tested. It is based on the principle of the Pritchard vane, but is more compact and universally applicable to both marine and fresh shallow water situations. Standardization tests have been performed and the statistics are noted. Emphasis is placed on the portability and ease of handling and reading. One sample table of current velocities obtained by this meter is presented.
1350946|Large numbers of eggs of Fundulus heteroclitus have been found in shells of the intertidal mussel, Modiolus demissus, near Wachapreague, Virginia, during six consecutive summers and in Brown's Bay, Virginia, during 1972. Egg deposition in shells in aquaria has been observed. This behavior may serve to protect the eggs from predation. In nature the eggs in shells are exposed to high temperatures and desiccation for long periods during lower tide levels. Hatching has occurred in 14 to 17 days under these conditions. Eggs taken from mussel shells and eggs stripped and fertilized in the laboratory did not have chorionic filaments or the filaments were greatly reduced in number and length. The habit of egg deposition in shells and the morphology of the eggs are different from that reported for F. heteroclitus from Woods Hole, Massachusetts.
1350450|Thermal power stations that discharge waste heat from cooling water into tidal areas of California represent 85% or 16,982 megawatts (MW) of the total state thermal power capacity in 1969. The generation on tidal areas in Oregon is 169.5 MW, and in Washington is 77.9 MW. The surface area influenced in 35 measurements at 9 power station discharges was used to calculate a regression equation in which generation in MW was equated to surface area raised above normal temperature in acres. The linear regression for areas raised 2 F above normal was Y = 104.422 + .0902011 X, while the equation for areas raised 10 F above normal was Y = 2.77812 + .0126561 X. The figure of +2 F is considered a detectable effect, but not significant biologically except in the warmest summers, while +10 F is considered significant biologically throughout the year. If all thermal stations in California were operated at maximum capacity, a total of 5.86 square miles of surface water would be raised 2 F above normal, and 0.41 square miles would be raised 10 F above normal, according to the regression equations. California has 400 square miles of bays and estuaries into which power stations discharge, and a shoreline of 1205 miles. These approximations are conservative in that the average load factor (ratio of actual operating load to total capacity) at California tidal stations was 56% in 1966, and the stratification of the warmed discharge water tends to minimize the effects on benthic communities. Thermal power generation at California tidal stations is expected to double by 1980. The trend to larger stations should make the total area influenced less than twice the present areas, because larger stations influence a lesser area per MW than smaller stations.
1350589|Victorella pavida was studied during 1971, 1973, 1974 and 1975. Its distribution along a decreasing salinity gradient was investigated and its mean low-salinity limit was found to nearly correspond to the boundary between the oligohaline and limnetic estuarine salinity zones. Because it was abundant and uniformly distributed in low salinities, and was absent in the limnetic range, it could be used as an indicator species to determine the maximum extent of brackish-water intrusion in estuaries. In most collections there was a relationship between zooid branching and salinity; however, this relationship did not appear to be related to salinity per se but to the effect of salinity on growth rate and interspecific competition, which in turn affected colony morphology. It occurred in waters which had a wide range of physiocochemical conditions and was the predominant epifaunal species in an outfall canal which received sewage and storm-water discharge from New Orleans. Because of its dominance of the epifauna in areas with poor water quality it appears to be an important species to consider when species associations and abundance are used to assess environmental quality.
1351330|Mean erythrocyte number per mm<sup>3</sup> of blood among nine species of fishes studied ranged from 680,000 for toadfish to 4,120,000 for white perch. Intermediate values were obtained for eel (2,020,000), searobin, flounder, blackfish, puffer, scup, and bluefish (3,830,000) in that order. In general, fishes which lead a comparatively sedentary existence possess fewer erythrocytes and less hemoglobin per unit volume of blood than the more active types. Within each species, a statistically significant correlation exists between erythrocyte number and hemoglobin content.
1351222|A study of the variation pattern in Roccus americanus was made to determine whether various populations differed and if so on what level. The results were compared with that of the striped bass, R. saxatilis, which occurs sympatrically over a part of the range. Counts of fin rays and scales and measurements of various body parts were made on over 1,400 specimens. The data are presented as frequency distributions. In R. americanus there appear to be two primary gene pools located north and south of the Delaware River, based on anal ray and lateral-line scale counts which were higher in the north. Almost all measurements (expressed as percentage of standard length) were greater in the south. The Delaware River population is intermediate in many characters and appears to have drawn from both northern and southern gene pools. Partially isolated populations within the two major gene pools have diverged on a low level. Some differences are probably due to selective adaptation while others may be the result of phenotypic response to environmental influence. In lake populations the specimens were more elongate than were those from rivers. Many and often pronounced differences occurred in the composite sample from the Croton and West Branch Reservoirs which separate it from all other stocks including its parent stock in the Hudson River from which it has been separated by dams for less than 100 years. The variation pattern in R. americanus is considerably different from that of R. saxatilis. For example in R. americanus fin-ray counts were generally higher in the Hudson River and lower in Chesapeake Bay tributaries whereas in R. saxatilis the reverse is true. The difference in the pattern of variation in these related species lends support to the belief that many differences between populations within each species may be genetic rather than due to environmental influence.
1350364|Six intertidal populations of Tagelus plebeius, the stout razor clam, and associated macroinvertebrates were sampled in the North Inlet estuary, near Georgetown, South Carolina. T. plebeius inhabited only stable sediments composed of greater than 2.0% silts and clays and which were covered by a visible surface film of benthic microalgae. Gut contents, gill morphology, and behavior all indicated that this clam functioned as a suspension feeder obtaining its nutrition by filtering suspended particles from the water column. Maintenance of the siphon tubes and burrows was important to the survival of this organism. T. plebeius was quantitatively an important member of the infuana within its habitat, composing 93.0% of the biomass, but only 3.2% of the total number of individuals. Sediment stability, in addition to affecting the distribution of T. plebeius, also had a significant role in determining the structure of invertebrate communities inhabiting the intertidal sandbars sampled. The stable muddy-sand sediments of lagoon areas supported a more diverse faunal assemblage than did the less stable sandy sediments of fringe areas of the same sandbar.
1350890| Bacteria belonging to the order Hyphomicrobiales comprised less than 0.01% of the planktonic bacterial community of water samples collected from the Chesapeake Bay and surrounding tributaries. These budding bacteria, however, were present in all of the 15 samples assayed. Two strains of Hyphomicrobia were isolated, one from the mouth of the Patuxent River and another from a Rock Creek tributary (Hyphomicrobium RC). Hyphomicrobium RC was extensively characterized. Morphologically, stalked cells ranged from 1.0 to 10.0 m in length and the stalks were 0.2 to 0.3 m in diameter. Buds were 0.5 to 0.8 m in diameter. Cells characteristically produced monopolar stalks. Extensive branching and filament formation were not observed. Electron micrographs of thin-sectioned specimens failed to reveal the presence of a well-developed internal membrane system. Of numerous carbon sources tested, Hyphomicrobium RC grew only with methanol or methylamine. In both batch and continuous culture, the growth rate in the presence of methanol was about twice the rate in methylamine. Optimum growth conditions for Hyphomicrobium RC were found to be pH 7.0. 30 C, and 0.5% NaCl. Under these conditions, colonies synthesized a yellow pigment on agar. The mole% guanosine plus cytosine content of the deoxyribonucleic acid of Hyphomicrobium RC was calculated to be 64.5 (that of other hyphomicrobia ranges from 59 to 67%). The strain had surface antigens which differed from those of 5 other representative isolates of Hyphomicrobium. These characteristics suggest that Hyphomicrobium RC may be a previously undiscovered strain. The ability of Hyphomicrobium RC to degrade methanol, and of other strains to denitrify, may function to alleviate potential stress to aquatic ecosystems. 
1350860|The population dynamics of the stout razor clam, Tagelus plebeius, were investigated for three years. Density, year-class structure, and recruitment varied with elevation above mean low water, among sample areas, and among years. Recruitment was unimodel and restricted to the late spring. Over 80% of the juveniles recruited in the spring were absent from the sample areas by the following fall. Growth rates of T. plebeius varied with season, age, and elevation above MLW, but did not vary among sample areas or years. T. plebeius grew faster and reached a larger final length in low intertidal areas. The American Oystercatcher, Haematopus palliatus palliatus, and the stingrays, Dasyatis sabena and Dasyatis americana, were the major clam predators identified.
1350985|Vertical distribution and sinking characteristics of seston are described over an annual cycle at a station in the lower York River. Total seston concentrations generally increased with depth due to increase in the inorganic component. This increase is attributed to resuspension from bottom deposits. Organic material tended to be uniform in vertical distribution. Sinking characteristics are of two types, mass flux [ ML<sup>-2</sup> T<sup>-1</sup>] and settling velocity [ LT<sup>-1</sup>]. The downward flux of organic material was less than that of inorganic, and flux of the latter increased greatly with depth. The sinking velocity of organic seston was slow compared to inorganic, but both fractions accelerated in the upper half of the water column to maximum sinking rates which remained nearly constant in the lower half. The average time for material to settle from a depth of 2 ft to 22 ft was estimated to be 0.13 days for total seston, 0.34 days for organic and 0.06 days for inorganic. Except during the spring bloom no correlation was observed between vertical seston distributions and those of phytoplankton populations, nor between size of the populations and concentration of particles. During the period of reduced phytoplankton following the spring bloom organic seston was higher than in any other season and inorganic matter exceptionally low.
1350976|Adult blue crabs were exposed to various concentrations of cadmium in sea water at different thermosaline regimes. Concentration and rates of uptake of cadmium were greatest at low salinities and higher temperatures with major sites of localization in gill, hepatopancreas and carapace. Claw muscle was comparatively low in cadmium.
1350834| Three natural combinations of cyprinid hybrids were found in the Little Patuxent River, Maryland in the vicinity of the Fall Line. They resulted from the spawning of Notropis cornutus, Notropis rubellus and Clinostomus funduloides over the nests of Nocomis micropogon. The hybrid N. rubellus  C. funduloides was an unreported hybrid combination. It was rare; its characteristics were intermediate between the parental species. The hybrid N. cornutus  N. rubellus was common while N. cornutus  C. funduloides occurred rarely. The particular ecology, including the high stream gradient and generally sandy bottom with boulders and bedrock, appeared to contribute to the hybridization. The rarity of hybrids involving C. funduloides is attributed to the greater genetic isolation. There appeared to be no relationship between the frequency of hybridization and the distance between the precise positions of the parental species as they spawned over the Nocomis nest. 
1351027| An aerial survey in association with several intensive ground surveys yielded the first estimate of the size of the osprey (Pandion haliaetus carolinensis) nesting population in Chesapeake Bay. The 1973 population was estimated at 1,450  30 pairs, of which 713 were on the western shore and 737 on the eastern shore. A small percentage of nonbreeders (possibly 2-5 percent) may be included in this estimate. Only 31.7 percent of the population was nesting in trees; the remaining birds utilized duck blinds (28.7 percent), channel markers (21.8 percent), and miscellaneous man-made structures (17.8 percent). The geographical distribution of nesting ospreys has quite likely changed during the last several decades as suitable artificial nesting sites have become more available. Furthermore, limited evidence suggests that birds nesting on the man-made sites were more successful than those nesting in trees. This study provides a basis for monitoring future changes in numbers and distribution. 
1350520|The nemertean worm Cerebratulus lacteus feeds on the razor clam Ensis directus by entering the burrow from below and engulfing its anterior end. The clam is forced to project much of its body above the surface (sometimes leaving the burrow), thus becoming subject to surface predators and desiccation. This predation was observed from New Jersey to North Carolina.
1351275|Fertilization of a low marsh area inhabited by the cord grass, Spartina alterniflora, with inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus compounds was conducted on a monthly basis during the 1972 growing season. Yield of the cord grass, as measured by an increase in fresh weight after its harvest, was significantly higher in the nitrogen fertilized area when compared to the phosphorus fertilized site and a control area. No effect of phosphorus could be demonstrated. It was concluded that nitrogen supplies are limiting production of dwarf form S. alterniflora in the salt marsh under study, and further suggested that introduction of additional sources of inorganic nitrogen into a marsh deficient in nitrogen would tend to increase its productivity.
1351031|Eggs and early larvae (5.8-34.2 mm SL) of the snake eel, Pisodonophis cruentifer (Ophichthidae) are illustrated and described for the first time. The eggs are distinguished by their large size (>2 mm), large perivitelline space, segmented yolk, one to many oil globules, and pigmentation on late stage embryos. The larvae are distinguished most readily by myomere counts (145-153) and the number (8-9) and location of gut pigment patches. Leptocephalus mucronatus Eigenmann and Kennedy (1902) is synonymized with P. cruentifer.
1351144|Ten daylight incubator estimates of primary production were performed at the mouth of the Patuxent estuary, Maryland, during the warm season of 1967. Daytime gross and net photosynthesis ranged from 1.10 to 3.75 and -0.39 to 2.57 g C m<sup>-2</sup> respectively. An assumed photosynthetic quotient of 1.0 was required to usually give positive estimates of 24-hr net production based on changes in dissolved oxygen. Photosynthetic output per unit chlorophyll a was quite uniform from 100 to 16% of the surface insolation. Efficiency of daytime gross integral photosynthesis ranged between 0.5 and 2.6%.
1350707|Shell growth, dry-meat weight, and mortality of the American oyster (Crassostrea virginica), the blue mussel (Mytilus edulis) and the bay scallop (Aequipecten irradiens) cultured for 3 months on algae grown in artificial medium and in secondary-treated sewage effluent exhibited no significant differences.
1351057|Mental glands of eastern salamanders of the genus Plethodon were examined to determine differences in shape, and to ascertain their value as a taxonomic character. Shape of the glands conforms to recognized species groups in small Plethodon; all large Plethodon have generally the same shape regardless of species group. P. wehrlei appears intermediate, perhaps more closely allied with the large Plethodon. Mental gland shape of the cinereus species group appears similar to that of the western Plethodon.
1351373|Specimens of the common Atlantic squid, Loligo pealei, and the brief squid, Lolliguncula brevis, collected from June to September, 1958, in Delaware Bay, were studied morphometrically. Growth rate, length frequency, weight-length ratios, and change of body shape are presented and discussed for L. pealei. Scarcity of L. brevis made impossible any definite comparison of its morphometry with L. pealei, but certain trends were nevertheless noticeable.
1350970|The scale method is a valid means for age assessment and back-calculating previous growth for the cunner, Tautogolabrus adspersus (Walbaum) in the Weweantic River estuary, Massachusetts. Examination of cunner scale growth from July through October indicates that only one annulus is formed per year, probably during late May or June. A linear body length-scale length relationship used for back-calculation of total length is: (TL = 20.35 mm + 0.7555 SR). The origin of scale development in the cunner is shown to be on the caudal peduncle at 14 mm TL. Lee's phenomenon, whereby length at age is increasingly underestimated from scales of progressively older fishes, is not evident in back-calculated growth data. The validity of using average calculated length-at-age data to describe cunner growth is demonstrated. Growth in length of Weweantic cunners is relatively slow; average back-calculated lengths for the first five years of life were 46.5, 88.3, 124.8, 153.1, and 176.5 mm TL. The von Bertalanffy equation, 1<sub> t</sub>=284.77(1- e<sup>-0.1979( t-0.1044)</sup>), adequately describes growth in length for age groups I to V. Various length-weight relationships are derived which satisfactorily characterize growth in weight of Weweantic fish. The youngest age groups of cunner exhibit the greatest relative increase in body weight and relative weight growth during the second growing season is 11 times as great as as that observed during the fifth growing season.
1350624| Dermocystidium marinum is a pathogen which kills oysters in Chesapeake Bay from July through October. The fungus proliferates readily only at temperatures above 25C but overwinters in oysters as sub-clinical cases. Experiments were conducted in Nature to demonstrate the effects of proximity of infected oysters on epizootiology in isolated disease-free populations. Prevalence of Dermocystidium in the York River was moderate in 1957, heavy in 1959, and extremely low in 1963. In 1957, with 40 feet of isolation, groups mixed with infected oysters showed large increases in deaths and prevalences over controls. In 1959, the fungus was so widely prevalent in York River during a long hot summer that relatively minor reductions in death rates were obtained by 50 feet of isolation. In 1963, with the fungus nearly absent, a failure in laboratory infection techniques caused late timing of the experiment, and results were inconclusive. A new disease caused by "MSX", a protistan parasite, developed high prevalences in the 1963 lots. This organism, by destroying oyster populations in high-salinity waters (above 15 in late summer) has effectively reduced Dermocystidium to a minor role as an oyster pathogen in lower Chesapeake Bay. Losses from Dermocystidium in Chesapeake Bay are dependent upon duration of warm seasons and survival of cases through winter. MSX is slightly more sensitive to low salinities but much more tolerant of low temperatures than Dermocystidium. The decline of Dermocystidium with the disappearance of oyster populations suggests that the pathogen may be dependent solely upon transmission from oyster to oyster. 
1350728|The record of the Mississippi map turtle, Graptemys kohni, in Maryland's Patuxent River brings the total of introduced forms to six. It was found in water with a salinity of 5.3 ppt. Notable was the large barnacle, Balanus, attached to the rear of the carapace. Body measurements and comments regarding its salinity tolerance are presented.
1351014| Field studies carried out between 1962 and 1968 along the Atlantic coast of Delaware, U. S. A., and the southern shores of Delaware Bay, revealed the presence of 74 different taxa of marine algae, 69 of which are benthic. Of these benthic taxa 11 belong to the Cyanophycophyta, 21 to the Chlorophycophyta, 1 to the Xanthophycophyta, 18 to the Phaeophycophyta, and 18 to the Rhodophycophyta. As reported in my Preliminary Checklists (Zaneveld, 1966a, 1967), almost all benthic taxa are new records for the State of Delaware, e. g. 11 belonging to the Cyanophycophyta, 18 to the Chlorophycophyta, 1 to the Xanthophycophyta, 16 to the Phaeophycophyta and 11 to the Rhodophycophyta. The reproductive periodicities of the taxa are tabulated, showing that the maximum reproductive periods for most taxa extend from early May to late September. The occurrence is seasonal in character; none of the taxa was found to occur all year round. The algal population was densest in the months of June, July, and August. With regard to the geographical distribution, all taxa are also reported to occur north of the Delaware Bay; 4 taxa of the Chlorophycophyta, 6 taxa of the Phaeophycophyta, and 1 taxon of the Rhodophycophyta, and none of the taxa of the Cyanophycophyta and the Xanthophycophyta seem to reach their southern limit along the coast of Delaware. Hence, the marine benthic algal flora of Delaware is temperate-boreal in character. The environmental factors checked indicate that inside the Delaware Bay, the temperature varies between -2 C and +30 C, and the salinity between 20.0  and 33.2 . The structure of the bottom of the various collecting sites is mainly sandy along the Delaware Atlantic coast, and sandy-muddy inside the Delaware Bay. 
1350895|An artificial key to the skulls of adults of the land mammals reported from Delaware, Maryland and Virginia is presented for use not only by wildlife and professional biologists, but also by those lay persons interested in identifying skulls they might find in this region.
1350703|Studies were made in Core Sound, North Carolina to determine the abundance and distribution of juvenile blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, and their subsequent relation to the commercial fishery. Estimates of juvenile abundance were based on catches of small crabs in the marsh creeks bordering Core Sound. Young-of-the-year blue crabs (2.5-5.0 mm) begin to enter Core Sound estuary in early October. These small crabs move through the open waters of the sound and bays into the small marsh creeks and remain there until the following spring. At this time (April-May) the juvenile crabs move into the bays and sound proper where they remain to maturity. Catch and effort statistics from Core Sound Commercial crab fishery were collected from November 1964 through June 1968. Landings of approximately 680,000 kg annually constitute the fishery.
1351089|An 84 cm adult crevalle jack, Caranx hippos, was caught on hook and line off Murrill's Inlet, South Carolina, with enlarged bulbous mandibles. Staining and sectioning revealed bony tissue throughout these bulges and ruled out parasitic copepods as possible causal agents of the bulges. The fish was normal in all respects. The tumor was unencapsulated and non-invasive. Radiographs revealed no metastases.
1350541|Great numbers of the common starfish, Asterias forbesi, were washed ashore from the Atlantic Ocean along Worcester County, Maryland, during an unusually severe storm in February, 1960. Several millions were killed on the beach, while others survived. A length frequency distribution revealed a bimodal distribution, suggesting two age groups, as have been observed in more northern waters. Large numbers of surf clams, Spisula solidissima, were also washed ashore with the starfishes.
1350927| A megalops of the blue crab is recorded in the Maryland part of Chesapeake Bay for the first time. Salinity was 17.1  and temperature 17C on October 14, 1957. This record extends the northward intrusion of this form in the bay about 65 nautical miles. 
1351341| The larvae of Chione cancellata Linne, a small, subtropical venerid clam, were raised and described to facilitate their identification in plankton samples. Dimensions (in microns). L = length, H = height, D = depth. Straight hinge stage: L = 87-125. H = 72-119. D = 45-96. L-19 = H  8. L-42 = D  9. Straight hinge line 59-67. Umbo stage: L = 112-196. H = 112-187. D = 62-165. L-17 = H  10. L-44 = D  14. Dorsal margin projects slightly beyond hinge line at posterior end of straight hinge line during straight hinge stage. Umbo initially low, becoming broadly rounded by 140. Small projection in center of umbo extending dorsally. 
1350342|An analysis was made of the functioning of 45 groins constructed to control beach erosion at Scientists Cliffs, Calvert County, Maryland. The results show that the height of groins, non-spillover length of groins, and availability of coarse sand are critical factors affecting height of sand accumulation and width of beach between groins. Very fine sand particles, smaller than 0.125 mm in diameter, are transported by wave action seaward and form very little of the sand accumulation between groins. All relationships are illustrated graphically and with photographs. The measurements obtained were run through automatic data processing equipment to obtain regression equations and the coefficients of correlation, all of which are statistically significant. An illustration shows the western shoreline of Chesapeake Bay for northern Calvert County in 1847 as compared with that for 1942. In a few places, the shore line has receded as much as 450 feet, whereas in other limited areas little or no erosion has occurred. The vertical clay cliffs and bulkheads built parallel to and close to the cliffs, when not protected with groins and a sloping beach, create conditions that increase the rate of erosion and prohibit the accumulation of beach materials. Strong wave fronts that strike these vertical walls head-on at high tidal levels during storms are reflected and set up strong reflected waves that transport beach sand seaward, which exposes the hard clay cliff to further erosion. In a fully developed or mature groin system the groins, in addition to being sand tight, should have sufficient height for at least 3/5 of their length to stop water from spilling-over during most storms; and sufficient length to hold a beach wide enough so that waves do not destroy vegetation growing at the base of the cliff. However, without an adequate supply of coarse to medium sized sand particles, groins do not accumulate enough sand to control cliff erosion.
1351362| A deformed male bluefish (553 mm total length, 1698 g), with a plastic band encircling the body obliquely anterior to the spinous dorsal fin and posterior to the pelvic fins, was caught in Chesapeake Bay in 1963. A cut-depressed area of 14  31 mm extended dorso-anteriorly while the ventral skin and flesh were cut and exposed. 
1351250|Blood of American eels from Chesapeake Bay was examined with serological techniques. Individual variations in erythrocyte antigens were disclosed by natural isoagglutinins in eel sera and by agglutinins in absorbed rabbit antisera. The complexity of the isoantigen-isoagglutinin system seems to exceed that presently known for any other vertebrate.
1350613| The distribution and abundance of the fiddler crabs, Uca pugnax and U. minax were determined in relation to salinity in three tidal tributaries of Delaware Bay, U. S. A. Only Uca pugnax was present in high salinity (21-29 ) while U. minax was present in lower salinities and even in fresh water. Their distributions overlapped along the salinity gradient and both species were equally abundant in salinities of 8-12 . There was a statistically significant positive association between abundance and salinity for Uca pugnax and a negative association for U. minax. 
1350892|To investigate entrapment of fishes, traveling intake water screens were sampled monthly in 1969 and 1970 at a steam electric power station near Crystal River, Florida. Samples contained 73 species representing 41 families; the majority of individuals were juveniles or weak-swimming species. There was an inverse relationship between intake water temperature and catch. Highest mortalities occurred with the first cold temperatures of winter and later with lowest water temperatures. Comparison of catch-per-unit-effort during daylight and darkness in 1970 showed monthly catch-per-hour for dark sampling approximately equal to or greater than for light. Greatest disparities between day and night sampling occurred simultaneously with coldest water temperatures.
1350745|The relationship of the muscle volume to a linear measurement of the shell in the formula K=muscle volume/shell measurement<sup> N</sup> was used to compare the condition of bay scallops, Aequipecten irradians, from different environments in the Niantic River, Connecticut. The scallops were collected from the age of about 7 months through the 20th month, which is near the end of the life span. Areas judged to be similar except for prevailing current influences were selected as collecting stations, two stations being subject to strong tidal currents and two with little or no flow. One of the areas of strong tides had a scallop population approximately five times as dense as a nearby and otherwise comparable sampling location. The K<sup>2</sup>-scallop age relationship was determined by regression. This indicated an increase in K with scallop age. There were two deviations in K below the regression line: from June through mid-September and from mid-December through January, at the approximate ages of 11 to 14 months and 17 to 18 months respectively. K values rose well above the regression line during October and November when the scallops were approximately 15 to 16 months old. K values tended to be higher in the current-free areas, thus the prevailing concepts attributing favorable scallop condition to current effects must be qualified. Since K values were lowest at the densely populated station, the possibility of competition for food is suggested.
1350586|We have designed and tested phytoplankton "cages" in which captured natural populations can be re-suspended in situ at their original site or at different sites. The "bars" of the cage consist of a membrane whose pores are sufficiently large to permit relatively rapid exchange of "inside" and "outside" nutrient-containing waters which ensures that the contained phytoplankton are always subjected to the "outside" (in situ) nutrient regime. The pores are sufficiently small to retain the captured phytoplankton. In order to measure growth rates precisely the cages are incubated in situ for times greater than the doubling times of the population (ca. 3 days). The population changes within the cages reflect the integral net primary production. Therefore the technique can be used to characterize geographical locations in terms of their potential for supporting the growth of natural phytoplankton populations. A possible specific application of this technique is the comparative study of the effects on the growth of phytoplankton of near field and far field water masses adjoining power plants or sewage treatment plants.
1350410|Two decapod crustaceans, the grass shrimp, Palaemonetes pugio, and the fiddler crab, Uca pugnax, were subjected to graded doses of cobalt-60 gamma radiation. The dose required to kill 50% of the animals within 7 days, 14 days, and 30 days was calculated. The LD<sub>50</sub>/30 days of Palaemonetes pugio was about 1,500 r and the LD<sub>50</sub>/30 days of Uca pugnax was about 8,000 r. Females of P. pugio which were ovigerous at the time of irradiation either released their eggs unhatched, or, in the one case in which hatching occurred, all larvae died within three days. Prolongation of the intermolt period was observed in U. pugnax individuals irradiated at the lower dosages.
1350743|Ten species of chaetognaths were identified from plankton collections taken from the inner continental shelf waters off Virginia in 1960, including: Sagitta serratodentata, S. elegans, S. tenuis, S. enflata, S. helenae, S. minima, S. hispida, S. bipunctata, Pterosagitta draco, and Krohnitta pacifica. An artificial key to the identification of these species and descriptions based on the collected specimens are given. Tooth counts and seminal vesicle structure of S. serratodentata revealed the presence of two subspecies in the western Atlantic. Virginian specimens are the cold-water variety, S. s. tasmanica, whereas Cuban waters are inhabited by S. s. atlantica. Published counts and descriptions of this species are lacking for intermediate waters. Specimens of S. tenuis displayed an intermediacy and overlapping of several characters that have been used for the separation of S. friderici and S. tenuis. Included among these characters are Tokioka's TC values, maximum body length, number of teeth, extension of the ovaries, and size at maturity. The present collections of K. pacifica constitute a northward extension of the known range of this species in the western Atlantic.
1350433| Adult mummichog, Fundulus heteroclitus, collected well after the spawning season were induced to spawn in the laboratory by intraperitoneal injections of APL (Anterior Pituitary-like Hormone). Hatching occurred nine days after spawning at a temperature of 22 C. Newly hatched mummichog larvae were subjected to salinity tolerance experiments carried out over a period of 50 days. In the low salinity regime, mortalities did not occur until the water reached 0.39 salinity which by definition is considered fresh. Mortalities in the high salinity experiment did not occur until the salinity of the water exceeded 100 salinity. These results show that newly hatched larvae and early juvenile stages of this species have a very broad range of tolerance to salinity. As no mortalities occurred in the controls throughout the 50 day period, experimental mortalities can be ascribed to salinity extremes. Growth of the larvae in the high salinity experiment was retarded as compared to the controls. 
1350793|A total approach to sampling macroplankton of the Patuxent Estuary (Chesapeake Bay, Maryland) is presented with gear descriptions, operational details and illustrations. New or modified gear includes: a plankton sled, meter net, mid-depth sampling net, surface sampler, set nets and a field plankton sorter. Flow rate calculations and a laboratory separation technique are also included.
1350719| During the 10-year period 1950-1960 the incidence of Trichomonas gallinae among several series of mourning doves shot or trapped in Maryland has varied from zero to 12 per cent. Prior to 1959, all isolations of T. gallinae from doves during such surveys had been from birds with well-developed lesions. In 1959, trichomonads were demonstrated in three of 54 normal hunter-killed doves examined in Howard County. The incidence of trichomonad infection among doves which were submitted to the laboratory because they were obviously diseased was much higher. Of 44 clinically ill doves submitted during the period 1950-1960, 25 were found to be infected with T. gallinae. In the Maryland area the incidence of trichomonad infection among mourning doves appears to be low, but when infection does occur it is usually due to a pathogenic strain which produces a typical fatal canker. 
1350405|Live specimens of the southern drill have recently been collected in the Chincoteague Bay area of Maryland and Virginia. This extends its known northern limit some 150 miles beyond its previously recognized range. Evidence from dredged shells, however, indicates that the species was established at a much earlier date in the Maryland part of Chincoteague Bay, perhaps before the closure of the Green Run inlet in 1883.
1351361|Observations of an association between Aurelia aurita and Libinia dubia are reported. Numerous small spider crabs were noted on these occasions, clinging to the medusae, and two individuals were found to have penetrated into the mesoglea and were feeding upon the medusan tissue. This association is considered one of chance contact.
1350955|Fully developed polyps of Chesapeake Bay Aurelia aurita reared in the laboratory from known medusae were found to have circular mouths instead of the typical cruciform shape. This characteristic distinguishes them from those of Chrysaora quinquecirrha and Cyanea capillata in the same region and could be useful for identification purposes in field collections. Laboratory-reared polyps of Aurelia aurita from Delaware Bay and the Gulf of Mexico also retained a circular mouth throughout their development. This mouth shape distinguishes the polyps from these three regions from those of the same species from higher latitudes and appears to be a deviation from the normal development of the organism.
1350893|The roughhead shiner, Notropis semperasper, is known only from nine streams of the upper James River drainage in the Ridge and Valley physiographic province of Virginia. It typically inhabits warm, usually clear, medium to wide sections of these streams where there is moderate gradient and hard bottom with little siltation. Slow to moderate currents of pools and backwaters are preferred. It was proposed for inclusion on lists of threatened species; new data shift it to borderline status, not clearly warranting continuation on such lists. It should, however, be monitored because of environmental modifications completed, under construction, and proposed for occupied streams. The largest specimen examined, 72.8 mm SL, was in its fourth or fifth year of life. The sexes appear to grow at about equal rates. Spawning probably begins in May and extends into June but not later than late August. N. semperasper is unique in that young individuals develop "nuptial" tubercles. Juvenile males and females bear cephalic and body tubercles but only adult males possess well developed pectoral fin tubercles. Tubercles, although long persistent after spawning in many specimens, exhibit a pattern of loss and reproliferation. Means for identifying the species are noted. Data from previously unstudied populations suggests an absence of significant intraspecific variation.
1350502|Short-term variations in fluorescence and dissolved oxygen were recorded from a fixed station between 6 and 7 m over 12 m of water in upper Chesapeake Bay. The late afternoon curves showed a positive relationship and the early evening curves exhibited an inverse correspondence. The observed oscillations could result from internal waves but the variations in space and time may represent discrete patches of phytoplankton that move past the fixed sampling point.
1350806| Early summer concentrations discovered by sportfishermen in Chesapeake Bay allowed tagging and release of twenty fish. Six returns were received from sport catches up to five years after release (1,855 days). Sport fishing mortality was 0.30  0.21 with P = 95%. 
1351131|Crassostrea virginica samples collected from Lemon and Sarasota Bay areas during the 1962-1963 fish-killing red tide outbreak in Florida were tested for ciguatera-like toxin by preparing a diethyl ether extract of the oyster and using white mice for toxicity analysis. Oyster samples that demonstrated elevated toxicity values in mice caused definite neurological symptoms, or death, or both, in 3 to 6 day-old white leghorn chicks when administered orally.
1350562|The occurrence of 104 species of fish belonging to 54 families and 87 genera in the Isle of Wight and Assawoman Bays near Ocean City, Maryland, is reported. These fish were collected in 1959, 1961, 1962, and 1963 by various gear. Each species is accompanied by some ecological notes pertaining to seasonal oscillations of species and populations, patterns of distribution in the bays, etc.
1350760| The radiation sensitivities of five estuarine decapod crustacea were compared: three species of fiddler crabs, Uca pugilator, U. pugnax, U. minax: the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, and the grass shrimp, Palaemonetes pugio. Temperature and salinity (20 C and 30 ) and radiation dose rate (310 rad/min) were the same for all species. The 40-day LD-50 values for the fiddler crabs (U. pugilator, 9,800 rad; U. pugnax, 16,500 rad; and U. minax 13,500 rad) fell between those of the blue crab, 42,000 rad, and grass shrimp, 215 rad. Possible physiological and ecological explanations for the differences in sensitivity are discussed. 
1351156|Regular otter trawl boards were converted to surface trawl boards by attaching hydrofoils to the top edge of the boards. The conversion is simple and inexpensive. The converted otter boards were used to change a bottom trawl into a surface trawl that can be fished from one boat in the same manner as bottom gear. This trawl was efficient in sampling juvenile alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus), blueback herring (A. aestivalis), and brown shrimp (Penaeus aztecus).
1350536|Chincoteague Bay is a bar-built estuary with two inlets from the Atlantic Ocean-one at Ocean City, Maryland, and the other some 30 miles southward at Chincoteague Inlet. All available salinity data collected in the years 1951 through 1956 are utilized here to evaluate the processes which control the average monthly salinity in the bay. The major features of the salt balance are satisfactorily explained by a simple model equating the rate of change of salinity to terms involving net fresh water inflow and exchange rate through the inlets. An estimation of the exchange rate is made which indicates that approximately seven percent of the volume of the bay waters are renewed each day.
1350343| Adult quahaug clams that were subjected to graded concentrations of malathion, an organophosphorous insecticide, or to methoxychlor, an organochloride insecticide, for 96 hours at 24 salinity and 20 C were apparently unaffected at the highest levels tested, viz. 37,000 ppb of malathion and 1,100 ppb of methoxychlor. However, analysis of whole animal and selected tissues of pesticide-exposed clams showed, when compared to controls, consistent changes in levels of Na, K, Mg, Fe, and especially Ca and Zn. For each insecticide, profiles based on metal shifts among tissues are presented as a function of pesticide dose. The visual patterns provided by these profiles suggest a means of identifying unfavorable environmental conditions before obvious morphological or physiological changes occur. 
1350399|To determine the homing tendency of American shad in the York River, Virginia, 313 fish were tagged on the spawning ground in the spring of 1959. During the following spring, 14 marked fish were recaptured within the York River system and 5 in the vicinity of tagging. None was recaptured on the spawning ground of any other river, suggesting that shad having spawned once in this river system would return to spawn again.
1350512| Macrobenthos was studied at 58 previously surveyed stations following the drastic salinity reductions caused by Tropical Storm Agnes. Effects were greatest in the lower, polyhaline portions of the James and York estuaries, where many abundant species were eliminated from shallow bottoms due to the usually low salinities and several species were eliminated or reduced in abundance on deeper bottoms due to the somewhat reduced salinity but, more importantly, to low oxygen concentrations resulting to strong density stratification of the water masses. Irruptions of opportunistic species followed these perturbations and the deep mud bottom community in the lower York estuary had not recovered 2 years after the storm. The primary alteration to usually mesohaline communities was an infusion of species more abundant in oligohaline and/or shallow brackish habitats. Communities in usually oligohaline or tidal freshwater reaches of the James and York estuaries and those at the mouth of the bay were hardly affected by Agnes. 
1350956|Dimensional and chemical aspects of leaders and bark were investigated in tall (40-75 ft) eastern white pines (Pinus strobus) and in smaller (12-25 ft) trees growing in the open and in shade. Leaders from young open grown trees were longer, of greater diameter, and had thicker bark than leaders from tall white pines and from young shaded white pines. Tall trees were intermediate between the open grown and shaded trees in leader length and diameter but had the thinnest bark. Bark thickness in similar aged portions of laterals increased progressively at higher vertical levels in the trees. In spectrophotometer tests, light transmittance was higher for shoots than for bark from lateral branches and the main stem in both eastern white pine and western white pine (Pinus monticola).
1350898| Fall and winter movements and activity levels of Fundulus heteroclitus, the mummichog, were monitored in a Delaware tidal creek from September, 1973 to January, 1974. Fish either moved upstream into less saline waters or remained on station. As photoperiod decreased, activity levels at high salinity stations (17-29 ) decreased, while activity levels at low salinity stations (1-21 ) remained relatively high. 
1351382|A light and electron microscopic study was made of the blood cells of the Maine lobster, Homarus americanus. Observations based on cell shape and staining properties indicated three cell types: eosinophil, ovoid basophil, and spindular basophil. Cytoplasmic structures observed in all three types included mitochondria, smooth and rough surfaced endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, ribonucleoprotein particles, and large electron dense granules. The granules were shown to be either acidophilic or basophilic and composed of both carbohydrate and protein, and although no conclusive evidence relating to the function of these granules was found, it is believed in conjunction with the theories of other investigators that they are implicated in coagulation of the blood. They appear to act by the release of their secretory product from the cell which initiates coagulation in other cells. The spindular basophil appeared to be involved primarily in coagulation, while the ovoid basophil and the eosinophil appeared to function in both coagulation and phagocytosis.
1350694|Surveys on the distribution and abundance of submerged vascular plants in the Rhode River showed that there was an irregular decline in the amount of vegetation from 1966 to 1973, along with significant changes in species dominance. In 1966, redheadgrass (Potamogeton perfoliatus) and Eurasian watermilfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum) were both very abundant with lesser amounts of widgeongrass (Ruppia maritima), horned pondweed (Zannichellia palustris), sago pondweed (Potamogeton pectinatus), and elodea (Elodea canadensis). In 1967, all of these species declined substantially, and elodea disappeared entirely. In 1968, redheadgrass and horned pondweed returned in substantial abundance, but they again declined in 1969 and virtually all submerged aquatics disappeared in 1970. In 1972, horned pondweed and sago pondweed reached an eight-year peak, but other species remained at very low levels. In 1973, all species were low, and a prominent lack of vegetation similar to 1967, 1970, and 1971 occurred again. Elodea has not been seen in the Rhode River since 1966. We believe these changes represent a decline in environmental quality in the Rhode River that may have serious long-range implications.
1351182|Sequence of invasion of estuarine benthic organisms into a man-made pond was followed over a 2-year period. Dominant animals established early and developed a Mya- Macoma- Nereis association similar to that in nearby estuarine waters. Estimated biomass, faunal abundance, and growth measurements indicate that the benthic populations were near maximum levels within the first year, and that a stable association continued through the second year. Control of benthic populations will be essential if maximum production from selected food organisms is to be realized in artificial ponds.
1351083|The Chesapeake and Delaware Canal connects upper Chesapeake Bay with the Delaware River. The results of two years of intensive sampling effort in the C&D Canal suggest that this area may be one of the more important spawning grounds of striped bass, Morone saxatilis (Walbaum), in the Chesapeake Bay region. Concentrations of striped bass eggs found during the period of peak spawning may be the highest that have been reported. Limited evidence suggests that the C&D Canal has provided a favorable alternative to now destroyed historical spawning grounds of striped bass in the lower Susquehanna River.
1350501|Studies were conducted to assess natural mortality in larval and cocoon stages of the larch sawfly Pristiphora erichsonii (Htg.) in Maryland. Among newly-cocooned prepupae in August, mortality from unknown causes averaged 23.39%, whereas mortality definitely assessable to parasitism averaged 0.73%. Numbers of larvae missing from 100 colonies during the feeding stage averaged 9.25% of the total. The following 4 species of parasites were reared from the larch sawfly in Maryland; Tritneptis klugii (Ratz.), Mesoleius tenthredinis Morl., Eucerus sp., and Aptesis sp.
1351163| The larvae of Pinnotheres maculatus say, a small commensal crab commonly found in the scallop Aequipecten irradians, have been reared from hatching to the crab stage under laboratory conditions. The zoeae were reared at 30, 25C and fed recently hatched Artemia nauplii and fertilized Arbacia eggs. The five zoeal stages and one megalops stage are described and figured. The larvae of P. maculatus can be distinguished from all others which have been described on the basis of general morphological features. 
1351066|Seedlings of Spartina alterniflora Loisel. from North Carolina were exposed to thermoperiods of 18-14, 22-18, 26-22, and 30-26 C under both short- and long-day photoperiods for a 14-week period. Seedling biomass increased under both photoperiods as temperatures of the thermoperiods increased, but was greater in each thermoperiod under long-day conditions. Seedlings grown under short-day conditions were shorter, contained less biomass, produced more culms and rhizomes, had less shoot moisture, and contained higher chlorophyll concentrations than those under long-day conditions at the same temperatures. Flowering occurred earlier under short-day conditions in the 26-22 and 30-26 C thermoperiods, but also occurred under long-day conditions in these thermoperiods and appeared to be related to height growth.
1350807|Hatchery spawned and reared eggs, yolk-sac larvae and larvae from Hudson River striped bass (Morone saxatilis) were released into ichthyoplankton nets in an experimental flume at velocities of 0.5, 1.5 and 3.0 fps. Percent survival was determined immediately after exposure and, for 14-day-old larvae, after 72 hr. to assess latent mortality effects. Immediate and latent mortality was found to be velocity-dependent. Yolk-sac larvae were most sensitive to velocity during net capture, followed by post-yolk-sac larvae and eggs, in decreasing order of sensitivity. Attempts to determine survival of striped bass ichthyoplankton using net-captured organisms at steam electric stations may be affected profoundly by differences in water velocity at intakes and discharges.
1351190|A kinematic model, developed for use during conditions of low salinity when the upper reaches of an estuary are vertically mixed, divides the estuary into one- and two-dimensional regimes. The model has been applied to the Potomac by assuming that the estuary is one-dimensional above Maryland Point and two-dimensional seaward of Morgantown.
1351265|From 1963 through 1969, the U. S. Geological Survey operated a water-quality monitor system in the upper-middle Patuxent estuary, near Benedict, Maryland. Over the period of record, a pronounced change occurred in the diel (24 hr.) oxygen measurement, particularly during the months of July, August, and September. Annual variations of dissolved oxygen ranged from 3.6 to 15.0 mg liter<sup>-1</sup> in 1964 and from 2.3 to 16.5 mg liter<sup>-1</sup> in 1969 with percentage saturation varying from 60 to 130 percent in 1964 and from 30 to 184 percent in 1969. The magnitude of diel summer oxygen variation changed from about 3 to 7 mg liter<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> over the same period. From hourly values of temperature, oxygen, and conductivity, gross primary production (GP) and respiration (R) were estimated. Data representing greatest daily change for spring, summer, and autumn of each year and "average" values for each month of years 1964 and 1969 were analyzed for GP and R. From the seasonal data, GP ranged from about 3 to 25 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>, and R ranged from about 4 to 32 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>. From the "average" days, GP ranged from 2 to 10 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> in 1964 and from 1 to 16 in 1969. In 1964, daily average GP was 5.2 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> as compared to 6.1 in 1969, and respiration was 6.1 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> in 1964 versus 10.2 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> in 1969, increases of 20 and 16 percent, respectively. Ratios of GP/R averaged 0.84 in 1964 versus 0.60 in 1969, reflecting a larger respiration in 1969 and suggesting a trend towards community instability. Productivity estimates by other investigators showed a two- to threefold increase in production over the same period of time. The increases in production were attributed to upstream domestic waste loading. If the present trend increases, metabolic imbalance and anaerobic conditions may develop.
1351291|An annual phytoplankton cycle in lower Chesapeake Bay, Virginia, is described based on data obtained in 1960 on 24 cruises to five stations. The principal organisms were Skeletonema costatum, Chaetoceros affinis, C. compressus, Cerataulina bergonii, Chilomonas (?) sp., Massartia rotundata, Peridinium triquetrum, Gyrodinium aureum (?), Gymnodinium sp. Pyramimonas sp. and Cryptomonas sp. Diatoms were dominant in winter while flagellates were more important during warm periods and late autumn. Both groups were of comparable significance, generally, with flagellates being somewhat more important in the York River and diatoms in the bay proper. There were four periods of population maxima and six peaks of species diversity. Diversity appeared to spread upbay from the sea during cold periods and downbay from the rivers during warm seasons. Highest mean population and diversity levels occurred on the western side of the estuary where discharges from several major river systems are received. Despite this indication that environment controls long-term levels of abundance, it could not be demonstrated that nutrients or other specific factors mediated the annual cycle.
1350825| The urinary systems of the striped bass, Roccus saxatilis (N = 13), and white perch, R. americanus (N = 12), were studied to determine if they supported the monogeneric classification and to examine the osmoregulatory structure that may enable the species to survive in environments of different salinities. The gross anatomy of the urinary systems of the two species showed a number of similarities, e. g. the general mesonephric form and size, ureteral position and length, and the renal venous system. The head kidney, a hemopoietic organ, was larger in R. saxatilis than in R. americanus. Histological comparisons were made of H and E serial sections of the posterior part of the kidneys, and of the ureter, from three R. saxatilis and four R. americanus; included were the entire kidneys of two 2-year-old males of each species. The kidney of a young specimen of each species was also studied. The glomeruli in R. americanus (59.7 ) were found to be larger than those in R. saxatilis (47.7 ); in a previous study, freshwater R. saxatilis (55.7 ) were shown to have glomeruli of intermediate size. The number of goblet cells in the anterior part of the ureter was greater in R. saxatilis (approx. 20:1) and may be correlated with glomerular size. A distal tubular segment, usually present in freshwater fishes, was absent in both species; probably a reflection of their marine origin. As the differences in the urinary systems were explained on the basis of phenotypic responses to the environment, they, and the number of similarities, were considered to support a monogeneric classification. 
1350685|The in vivo chlorophyll a fluorescence technique for phytoplankton depends on the effective absorption and fluorescence quantum yield of chlorophyll a. The range of variation in the ratio of in vivo fluorescence: extractable chlorophyll a was found to be nearly 10-fold in natural Chesapeake Bay phytoplankton populations with significant areal and seasonal differences in addition to ambient light dependent fluorescence inhibition. Diel variations in chlorophyll a fluorescence ratios were found to be species specific responses of some diatom and dinoflagellate populations. Observed changes in fluorescence ratios of several natural populations from day to night levels were as great as 8-fold when diatoms Cerataulina bergonii and Rhizosolenia sp. dominated the phytoplankton biomass. The diel response was associated with plastid migration and contraction. More rapid transients in fluorescence intensity with changes in ambient light, the Kautsky Induction Effect, were associated with the degree of nutritional stress in natural samples and in unialgal cultures of phytoplankton. These observations may serve to explain some of the variations encountered in the application of the in vivo chlorophyll a fluorescence technique and to provide a basis for an assessment of the physiological condition of natural phytoplankton populations. Differences in cellular in vivo fluorescence ratios in vertical profiles of natural populations which might have been associated with variations in species composition variation with depth were eliminated by uniform dark treatment and suggest the observed in vivo chlorophyll a fluorescence is in part related to in situ adaptation to the spectral quality of ambient light.
1351155|Bi-weekly samples of fish eggs and larvae were collected for a 15-month period from the Magothy River. Samples were taken simultaneously from surface and bottom waters with one-meter plankton nets. Altogether 17 species of fish eggs and larvae were collected. Their seasonal occurrence, distribution patterns, and abundance are presented and discussed.
1350830|Rainwater fish, the client species, were found to carry the trematode ectoparasite, Gyrodactylus, which were apparently browzed by the stickleback, the cleaner species. The complex behavior pattern observed under aquarium conditions suggests this symbiosis may occur naturally between the two species found together in shallow weed beds in the estuary.
1350723|A study was made of the heart from Opsanus tau using an electrocardiograph to record normal activity and the responses to drugs and to experimental manipulations. Bradycardia occurs in toadfish kept out of water for more than 5 minutes. Large doses of darstine, an atropine-like drug, bring about A-V dissociation and prolongation of conduction time, probably by direct action on the heart muscle. Changes in temperature modify the heart in vitro and in situ.
1350700|The hydrography of the Broadkill River, a narrow, shallow estuary in southeastern Delaware, was studied from July, 1966, through February, 1971. Measurements of current velocity, tide stage, salinity, water temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, and turbidity were made at several stations along the course of the estuary. The Broadkill River has characteristics of both a partially-mixed and a well-mixed estuary. During normal runoff the system discharges 1.3 10<sup>5</sup> m<sup>3</sup> of freshwater seaward per tidal cycle. The flushing time of the entire system increases from 10.3 tidal cycles during high runoff to 24.2 tidal cycles during low runoff. For purposes of analysis, the Broadkill River was divided into three sections: the lower and upper estuaries, and the tidal river. The lower estuary, the most seaward 25% of the system, is sectionally homogeneous during 90% of each tidal cycle. Homogeneity is maintained by strong tidal currents. Vertical salinity and water temperature stratification occurs only during a short interval of simultaneous two-directional current flow at the beginning of each flooding period. Salinity, water temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, and turbidity generally reflect conditions in the adjoining lower Delaware Bay. Net non-tidal current flow is seaward at all depths. The flushing time of the lower estuary is relatively constant and increases from 0.6 to 0.9 tidal cycle with decreasing freshwater runoff. The upper estuary, the central 35% of the system, has the most distinct longitudinal and vertical salinity gradients. Tidal currents are slower than those in the lower estuary. Net non-tidal flow may be either two-directional or seaward at all depths. Dissolved oxygen and pH generally decrease and turbidity increases with distance upstream through this section. The flushing time of the upper estuary increases from 3.2 to 4.6 tidal cycles with decreasing freshwater runoff. The tidal river, the farthest upstream 40% of the system, is rarely invaded by saline water from the upper estuary. This section is polluted through the discharge of organic wastes into the river at a point 0.5 km downstream from the river's source, Wagamon's Pond at Milton, Delaware. Downstream from the source of pollution, anoxic conditions are present from spring through autumn and are relieved only during the coldest months of the winter. The lowest pH readings and greatest turbidities also occur in this section of the tidal river. The discharge from Wagamon's Pond dominates the tidal river upstream from the source of pollution. In this section dissolved oxygen rarely decreases below 8 mg/liter. The pH readings are generally higher than those in the anoxic section, and the water in this section is the least turbid of any water in the Broadkill River. The slowest tidal currents occur in the tidal river, and net non-tidal flow is generally seaward at all depths. The flushing time of the tidal river increases from 6.7 to 18.7 tidal cycles with decreasing freshwater runoff.
1350453|Rates of photosynthesis were used to evaluate the response of phytoplankton when passed through the cooling system of a power generating facility. Photosynthesis was measured as the uptake of carbon. A factorial design permitted evaluation of heat input, total effect of passage, and degree of recovery. Six experiments measured response at a fixed time of day and at various times in a daily cycle. An increase in temperature of approximately 8.0 C stimulated photosynthesis when natural water temperatures were 16 C or cooler and inhibited photosynthesis when natural water temperatures were 20 C or warmer. Passage through the cooling system resulted in further inhibition when the water was warm and nullified thermal stimulation when the water was cool. No recovery was observed within a four hour period following passage. Photosynthesis in cooled effluent water was either unaffected or actually suppressed. The existence of daily synchrony in the algae was shown by a daily maximum of thermal stimulation at 0900. The rhythm is considered inherent and only amplified by warming.
1350692|A self-regenerating dynamic pool model fitted to the Atlantic menhaden population was applied to simulate yield as a function of the parameters for growth, reproduction, and mortality. A random variable was applied to simulate random environmental fluctuations. For each combination of parameters the yield for 50 replicates of 50 generations was calculated. Under normal conditions considerable fluctuation in yield from the menhaden population can be expected. Decrease in the growth parameter produced the largest decrease in yield and an increase in adult mortality produced the smallest decrease in yield. The combined effects of simultaneous changes in more than one parameter were approximately additive.
1351070|Studies of the insect parasites of the Nantucket pine tip moth were conducted on loblolly, Scotch, and Virginia pine in Maryland. Twenty-five species of parasites and associated species were reared from infested stems, 5 of which had not previously been reared from the Nantucket pine tip moth. Total percentages of parasitism was highest for loblolly pine, and lowest in Scotch pine, although the greatest number of parasite species were represented in the Scotch pine material. The parasite species most commonly encountered in the study was Eurytoma pini Bugbee.
1351357|This study was made to determine the feeding habits of juvenile shad during late summer in the Pamunkey and Mattaponi Rivers and to discover, if possible, reasons for an apparent upriver migration. The stomachs of 1949 shad captured in 1953, 1954, and 1955 were examined. Insects were the most important food item; those of terrestrial origin made up a larger volume of food than did aquatic insects. Shad captured upriver from major spawning areas contained more food than those taken in the vicinity of spawning grounds. Insects of terrestrial origin made up a larger proportion of food of shad from upriver, while aquatic insects made up a larger proportion of food from downriver. The feeding of young shad in the Pamunkey River differed in both quantity and quality from those in the nearby Mattaponi River. Feeding began to increase in late afternoon, was most active at dusk, continued to a lesser extent during night and almost ceased by midday.
1351071|Water samples "quick-frozen" in an acetone-dry ice bath may become contaminated with acetone, even though tightly sealed in screw-cap polyethylene bottles. Acetone interferes with oxidation steps in ammonia and total phosphorus analyses, as well as the oxidative determination of dissolved organic carbon. Samples taken for such purposes should not be quick-frozen in an acetone-dry ice bath. Alternatives are discussed.
1351322| The distribution of aquatic vascular plants in two transition areas was studied on the South River, an estuarine branch of the Chesapeake Bay located in Anne Arundel County, Maryland (N 3854, W 7620). One transition area was near the mouth of the river, where salinities were constantly high due to the proximity of Chesapeake Bay. The other area was at the headwaters of the river, where salinities were lower and without diurnal variation. Temperature, pH, surface currents, and tide levels were measured. Laboratory analyses included three of the major cations in the water, calcium, sodium, and potassium. The dominant species at the mouth of the river were Myriophyllum spicatum, Potamogeton perfoliatus, Elodea Nuttallii, and Spartina alterniflora. The dominant species found at the headwaters were Elodea canadensis, Typha angustifolia, Pontederia lanceolata, Peltandra virginica, and species of the genus Sagittaria. 
1351051|Larval Alosa pseudoharengus may be distinguished from larval A. aestivalis by differences in the relative termination of the vent. The number of myomeres between the insertion of the dorsal fin and the vent is diagnostic. The mean number is 8.0 in A. pseudoharengus and 11.8 in A. aestivalis. Also of use in distinguishing between larvae of the two species are the number of preanal myomeres, the regression of the distance from snout to vent on standard length, the regression of the distance from vent to tail on standard length. Methods of distinguishing larval A. pseudoharengus and A. aestivalis from commonly associated species in the Chesapeake Bay region are discussed.
1350588| Simulated over-the-road transportation studies were designed to determine the survival rate of blue crabs in various types of containers and at three storage temperatures. Survival rates were evaluated for seven container designs at test temperatures 5, 10, 20C during a 96-hr storage period. The best survival rate for blue crabs out of water was at 10C in open baskets with moist burlap packaging (80-95% relative humidity). Mean mortalities under these conditions were 4.2% after 24 hr, 5.0% after 36 hr, and 16.7% after 48 hr storage. Tests on the frequency of handling the crabs indicated that these mortalities were probably high. The results of this study indicated that procedures which encompass an open type container with a method to maintain high humidity, such as moist burlap, and temperature control (approx. 10C) will substantially improve the survival of blue crabs. Differential survival by sex indicated that the geographical distribution of the crabs deserves further study. 
1350859|A simple two-dimensional numerical model has been developed to represent the observed vertical structure of tidal and nontidal currents and tidal elevations along a reach of the lower Potomac River Estuary. The model is based on a linearized longitudinal momentum equation and a laterally averaged continuity equation. It incorporates the effects of a naturally varying channel cross-section through the continuity equation, and a seaward increase in density through the pressure gradient term in the momentum equation. The observed distribution of density in the reach is used to evaluate the horizontal pressure gradient relative to the water surface. The model utilizes a coefficient of vertical eddy viscosity which varies both vertically and longitudinally. With but two adjustable parameters associated with the eddy viscosity, good agreement is obtained between the computed and observed tidal and nontidal currents.
1350622|Effects of carbohydrate supplements on shell and tissue (meats) growth of the oyster Crassostrea virginica were evaluated by laboratory studies. During spring, the addition of about 5 ppm cornstarch or wheat flour to York River water flowing at optimum rates had no detectable effect on shell or meat development. Similar studies in fall resulted in a significant increase in tissue weights of oysters but no effect on shell size. Tissue development was inhibited if the water supply was restricted or if the inflowing water was initially passed over a large group of actively feeding oysters, ("pre-filtered"). Under these conditions wheat or cornstarch at about 5 to 32 ppm partially or wholly compensated for effects of reduced flows or pre-filtered water on meat development. Effects on shell size were inconclusive. Concentrations of 2 to 5 mg/l dextrose added to inflowing water had no influence on shell or tissue growth. At 34 mg/l there was a significant effect on meat development, but no detectable effect on shell measurements. The study suggests that under estuarine conditions, tissue weights of oysters may be influenced by quantities of starch in planktonic algal cells rather than by the species or volume of plankters ingested.
1351210|A study was made of the intertidal zone of aged wooden pilings located in the lower York River estuary at Gloucester Point, Virginia, from February to June 1967. The upper vertical limit was determined for the 26 benthic algal species (7 Cyanophyta, 8 Rhodophyta, 1 Phaeophyta and 10 Chlorophyta) found at this location. More than 30% of the species were limited to below mean low water, and half of the species had ranges extending from mean low water or below to various intertidal heights. Six species were found that have not previously been reported from Virginia.
1350953|Numerical abundance, biomass, and caloric content of zooplankton were estimated from biweekly samples collected during 1970-1972 from the lower estuary of the Newport River, North Carolina. All three measurements generally were maximum during early fall and again in late winter or early spring. During November larval fishes, primarily pinfish (Lagodon rhomboides), spot (Leiostomus xanthurus), and menhaden (Brevoortia tyrannus), began entering the estuary. The larvae reached maximum abundance in the estuary during March and April. Zooplankton abundance declined significantly at this time during 1970 and somewhat later during 1971. We hypothesize that zooplankton abundance may control the survival of fishes during their transition from larvae to juveniles and that the larvae have a significant effect in reducing the standing crop of zooplankton. Analysis of the gut contents of these fishes indicated they feed predominantly on zooplankton. Routine metabolism of the larvae would require that the standing crop of larvae graze an average 10 percent of the 1970 standing crop of zooplankton daily during January-May.
1350864| Recent contamination of the James River estuary, Virginia, with Kepone prompted acute flow-through bioassays to determine the 96-hour toxicity of the insecticide to four estuarine species native to that ecosystem. The species and their 96-hour LC50 values were: grass shrimp (Palaemonetes pugio), 121 g/liter; blue crab (Callinectes sapidus), >210 g/liter; sheepshead minnow (Cyprinodon variegatus), 69.5 g/liter; and spot (Leiostomus xanthurus) 6.6 g/liter. Surviving animals were analyzed for Kepone. Average bioconcentration factors (the concentration of Kepone in tissues divided by the concentration of Kepone measured in seawater) were: grass shrimp, 698; blue crab 8.1; sheepshead minnow, 1,548; and spot, 1,221. 
1351258|Specific and intraspecific variation of larches (Larix spp.) has been studied in central Maryland. Five-year data indicate that Japanese larch L. leptolepis and European larch L. decidua each represented by five different seed sources, showed intraspecific variation in height growth. Both species included particular strains that grew more rapidly than other larches. Hybrids between these two species (L. decidua leptolepis F<sub>2</sub> and possible back-crosses) also had outstanding heights. Siberian larch L. sibirica from a plantation in Denmark, and dahurian larch L. gmelini from China had medium heights. Western larch L. occidentalis from Montana grew rapidly the first year in the nursery but had the smallest 5-year heights in the field. Early bud setting was a characteristic of Siberian larch and other species or strains that grew slowly. Leaf retention during the first winter was most pronounced on Western and European larches, less so on Japanese larch. No leaves were retained on Siberian and dahurian larches.
1351202|During the period December 17, 1974 through February 23, 1975 the author captured 27 cottontails (Sylvilagus spp.) a total of 110 times at elevations between 1800-2140 ft. The majority of these captures took place in a 6- to 7-year-old clearcut between 1880 and 1980 ft. elevation. Of the 22 cottontails captured at this location, 20 (91 percent) were identified as Sylvilagus transitionalis (New England cottontail) and 2 (9 percent) as S. floridanus. Using the Krumholtz and Lincoln indices it was estimated that this clearcut was supporting a population density of greater than one cottontail per acre.
1351152|Methods of collection and analysis of epifaunal communities from six stations in the Patuxent estuary are described. The stations were distributed from Solomons near the mouth of the estuary, upstream to Lower Marlboro, near the limit of salt water intrusion. Species composition and abundance, seasons of attachment, and production of the epifaunal community were determined on material collected from panels submerged for 1, 3, and 12 month periods covering the years 1963 and 1964. Salinity was highest downstream, as was the number of species. Salinity decreased rapidly between the Patuxent River Bridge station and Lower Marlboro, where the number of species was reduced to half. Seasons of attachment corresponded with seasonal temperature changes, with the greatest attachment taking place during the summer months. Over 40 species were identified with 7 of them comprising the bulk of the biomass produced. For the 7 most productive species, seasons of attachment and total numbers collected from areas of one square decimeter from monthly and quarterly panels from each station are shown. The seven species were the barnacle Balanus improvisus; the tunicate, Molgula manhattensis; the hydroids, Cordylophora lacustris and Bimeria franciscana; the amphipod, Corophium lacustre; the anemone Sagartia leucolena; the tubeworm, Polydora ligni. Their respective importance varied with seasons of attachment and location. Comments on the distribution and abundance of the less significant forms are included. Dry and ash-free dry weight (organic carbon) production of the epifaunal community varied from month to month depending on the seasons of attachment of the various species. The highest production for a single month was observed at the upriver station, Lower Marlboro, where barnacles and amphipods produced 2,754 g/ m<sup>2</sup>/30 days dry weight and 351 g<sup> C</sup>/ m<sup>2</sup>/30 days organic weight during August 1963. At the same station, barnacles, amphipods, and hydroids produced, on quarterly panels, the highest yearly average weight of about 1150 g<sup> C</sup>/ m<sup>2</sup>/ yr organic carbon and on monthly panels, about 6,500 g/ m<sup>2</sup>/ yr dry weight or about 3.5 times the least organic weight and 8 times the least dry weight produced at the downriver Station, Queentree Landing.
1351183| Eurasian water milfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum L.) declined significantly in Chesapeake Bay from 1965 to 1967. This decline generally exceeded 95%, and was associated with several pathologic conditions, previously named Northeast disease and Lake Venice disease. We believe that these pathologic conditions have been responsible for the decline. No study of Lake Venice condition has yet been undertaken, but this paper presents evidence that Northeast condition is an infectious disease. Northeast disease symptoms can be transmitted in the laboratory by a bacteriologically sterile filtrate passed through a 0.2  filter. This indicates a virus, virus-like particle, or a toxin as the etiologic agent. The primary pathogen is probably a virus, and the evidence for this will be presented in a later paper. Gram-negative bacilli obtained from diseased milfoil probably represent secondary infections. In September 1967, diseased milfoil showed a resurgence of growth and successfully flowered in several areas of the Bay. This may represent the development of genetic resistance to the pathogen, or it may be a natural cyclic pattern with reduced virulence of the pathogen. In November 1967, however, milfoil in Middle River collapsed to a greater extent than expected from normal winter kill, and that remaining was in very poor condition. 
1350820|The designs of a bucket dredge, a bottom drag, and a coring tube are presented. These devices are designed for small-boat operations in shallow water areas in estuaries.
1351259|The larch sawfly Pristiphora erichsonii (Hartig) has not been previously reported in Maryland. In 1966 it was observed at 11 locations in the counties of Garrett, Allegany, and Washington in Western Maryland. Its easternmost point of occurrence was Fort Frederick State Park in Washington County. Larch stands east of this area that were examined in 1966 were not infested. In preliminary studies the following insect parasites were recovered from larch sawfly cocoons in Garrett County: Tritneptis klugii (Ratzeburg), Mesoleius tenthredinis Morley, Euceros sp., Aptesis sp.
1351237|Over millenia of geological history, the highly oxygenated, unstable substratum of wave-exposed intertidal sands has been a physically harsh environment and a challenge to survival for animal life attempting to utilize its relatively rich planktonic and interstitial nutrient resources. The Atlantic Ocean originated presumably in the late Mesozoic, yet since that time, certain endemic groups of gammaridean amphipod crustaceans of different feeding and reproductive morphology and behavior have apparently developed, convergently, two main types of fossorial body form necessary to survival in this environment. The obligate-sand-burrowing subfamilies Pontoporeiinae and Haustoriinae (family Haustoriidae) illustrate the phenomenon of adaptive radiation within these two body forms. The wide-bodied hydraulic-tunnelling subfamily Haustoriinae contains eight distinct genera of which seven genera and approximately 28 known species occur (many sympatrically) along the non-tropical North American Atlantic coast. The species occupy definitive but somewhat overlapping niches of the sandy beach environment. Analysis of amphipod feeding morphology and distribution in the North Pacific and North Atlantic regions indicates that (1) filter-feeding and reproductive mechanisms are most specialized within the Haustoriinae; (2) the most specialized haustoriin species inhabit the highest intertidal and most landward estuarine environments; (3) evolution and adaptive radiation are proceeding most fully and rapidly in warm-temperate (southern) parts of the subfamily range; and (4) the Haustoriinae may be replacing the more primitive and less specialized colder-water Pontoporeiinae in regions from which the former is now excluded by ecological and distributional barriers.
1351228|An unusually large but slender striped mullet was taken from a depth of 80 feet in a drift gillnet in the main estuarine channel off Calvert County, Maryland in December, 1961. The female, with flaccid ovaries indicating a recently spent condition, was a typical adult of M. cephalus, except for two anal spines instead of the adult number of three. It is apparently the largest specimen, and first ever recorded during winter, from Chesapeake Bay, and the first adult with the low number of anal spines.
1351029| Striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) were live trapped on a 337-acre area near Richmond, 1.5 miles south of Montpelier, Virginia, from September 1963 until October 1969. Thirty-one skunks were recaptured on 92 occassions. Skunk numbers declined during the study from an average of two per 100 acres in 1963-65 to one per 100 acres in 1966-69. Numbers tended to increase in fall and winter and decrease from spring to summer. The trappable population was predominately adult and few (3) immatures were captured. More males than females were captured. Average time between first and last captures was 2.7  0.7 months. One female was recaptured over a 48 month period. Body weights at first capture were not significantly different (P = 0.05) between the sexes. Skunk captures were concentrated in old fields and young second growth forest, and diversity (H) and equitability (E) measures supported this finding. 
1351013|Eggs were collected using plankton nets in the lower 54 miles of the Connecticut River during 1967 and 1968 to locate spawning areas of American shad and to determine environmental factors influencing spawning success. Spawning occurred between 13 May and 27 June, the peak being June in 1967 and May in 1968. Shad spawned throughout the study area, but primarily above mile 28. Based on egg age and river flows, most eggs could have traveled 1 to 4 miles from the spawning sites. Shad arrived earlier in 1968 and spawned earlier and further downstream than in 1967, possibly due to warmer temperatures in May 1968. Lower water temperatures in June 1968 may have contributed to the higher egg mortality observed in that year (18% in 1967 and 30% in 1968). Most eggs in 1968 (65%) were collected in temperatures lower than 16.0 C, as opposed to only 3% in 1967. Other investigators have shown that shad eggs developing at these low temperatures have a prolonged development and reduced survival; the paucity of juveniles collected in 1968 gave supporting evidence for a weakened year class.
1350482|Commercial landings of striped bass on the Atlantic coast of America were reviewed briefly for the period prior to 1930 and analyzed in some detail from 1930 to 1966. From the lowest level of barely over 1 million pounds in 1934, annual landings for the entire coast have increased ninefold at the present level. Catch statistics and fluctuations in landings were analyzed according to regions and states. Chesapeake region, comprising Maryland and Virginia, landed two-thirds of the total catch. The fluctuations in Chesapeake landings were paralleled by Middle Atlantic and New England regions, but with a two-year lag. This was attributed to the fact that the main source of striped bass to all three regions was from the same Chesapeake stock. North Carolina, which is the sole contributor to South Atlantic region in striped landings, had its own distinctive fluctuation pattern. Fishing gears used in catching striped bass vary from state to state. Handlines are the only gear that land striped bass for commercial market in Massachusetts. Floating traps land the major portion in Rhode Island. Haul seines are the mainstay in New York, as are otter trawls in New Jersey and fixed gillnets in Delaware. Fixed gillnets are also the most important gear in Maryland and North Carolina, although drift gillnets, pound nets, and haul seines contribute significantly to the fishery. In Virginia, pound nets, haul seines, and fixed gillnets each land about 30% of the total poundage. Seasonal landing patterns differ from state to state. In Massachusetts, the striped bass fishery is primarily a summer fishery; in New York, a fall fishery; in New Jersey, a winter fishery. In Maryland and Virginia, the peak of landings occurs in March and April, just prior to the striped bass spawning season. In North Carolina, good landings are made from November to April. It has not been possible to calculate catch-per-unit-effort due to lack of necessary data, but the catch-per-unit-gear was calculated and analyzed for a representative state in each region. In all cases, fluctuations in landings were much more closely related to catch-per-unit-gear than to amount of gear. The cyclic nature of high and low years in Maryland landings was recognized. Dominant year classes seemed to occur at six-year intervals, and possible causes were discussed.
1351036|More than 1400 white perch from the Delaware River near Artificial Island were routinely examined for Lironeca ovalis (Say). When present, L. ovalis was found within the gill chamber. Of the fish examined only 24 (1.7%) were parasitized. Most of these were less than three years old. The presence of parasites apparently results in reduced growth.
1350353|The subgenus Boleosoma is herein restricted to include: Etheostoma olmstedi, E. nigrum, E. perlongum, E. longimanum, and E. podostemone. Members of the subgenus lack nuptial tubercles, the males darken during the breeding season and females have bilobed genital papillae. The following three species are excluded from the subgenus Boleosoma: Etheostoma jessiae and E. stigmaeum, males having elongate genital papillae (considerably shortened in males of Boleosoma) and brightened breeding coloration; Etheostoma chlorosomum, males having breeding tubercles and less than half the lateral line scales pored. Etheostoma olmstedi possesses a complete infraorbital canal versus incomplete in E. nigrum; and usually 13 pectoral rays versus 11 or 12. Four subspecies of E. olmstedi are recognized: (1) E. olmstedi olmstedi has poorly scaled nape, cheek, breast, and belly and is restricted to slow-moving, upstream habitats. (2) E. o. atromaculatum is strongly scaled, tolerant to low salinities and restricted to downstream base-gradient and river habitats. (3) E. o. vexillare is a Rappahannock River endemic with little head and belly squamation and fewer than 43 lateral line scales. (4) E. o. maculaticeps has two anal spines (other subspecies have only one) and weak head and belly squamation. Within the Rappahannock River E. o. vexillare has been found as far downstream as the falls at Fredricksburg, where it occurs sympatrically with E. o. atromaculatum; there they act as species. E. o. olmstedi is found in minor pool-and-riffle streams tributary to the Rappahannock below the falls but in this river is not in contact with vexillare. However, a zone of intergradation exists in the upper Pamunkey River between vexillare and olmstedi. E. o. olmstedi and E. o. atromaculatum have been found together in tributary streams of the Chesapeake Bay in situations similar to those described by Trautman (1957:568) for E. nigrum nigrum and E. n. eulepis. E. olmstedi atromaculatum may have been widespread in tidal streams of the exposed continental shelf during periods of lowered sea level of the Pleistocene. But with rising post-Pleistocene sea levels, it has been forced into closer contact with E. olmstedi olmstedi in tributaries to the main rivers of the Bay below the Fall Line. Both E. olmstedi olmstedi and E. o. atromaculatum returned to the Lake Ontario plain in New York following the final Wisconsin retreat. There is evidence that E. o. olmstedi moved over the divide from the upper Susquehanna into upper Fall Creek near Ithaca at earliest post-glacial times, although the Horseheads outlet probably accounted for its widest dispersion northward. Later, as pro-glacier lake levels fell, routes from the Hudson through the Mohawk valley were opened and this route westward was utilized by E. o. atromaculatum. When these two subspecies met in a broad reoccupation of the Ontario basin, isolating mechanisms broke down and intergrading populations there now demonstrate broad intermediacy in head squamation. Hudson River stocks of these two subspecies may have existed in some refugium off the present coast of New Jersey during the period of greatest glacial advance and sea level decline. Although both subspecies now exist in the Delaware basin, it is less likely that they used stream capture to move northward from the Delaware River system into the Hudson valley. South of the Rappahannock River E. o. olmstedi is restricted to Coastal Plain environments. The upper reaches of both the James and the Roanoke rivers may have had appropriate habitat preempted by two Boleosoma endemics, E. longimanum of the James and E. podostemone of the Roanoke, or by representatives of E. nigrum also found in the Tar and Neuse rivers further south. E. nigrum may have originated east of the Appalachians and escaped by stream capture into the New River system of the Ohio or vice versa. The displacement of E. olmstedi from the southern Piedmont favors the second alternative. Whatever transpired, E. nigrum now has eastern representatives but is more generally spread in the Mississippi system where it shows relatively little variation. E. olmstedi maculaticeps is found in the Piedmont south of those streams having upland E. nigrum representatives. The population of this subspecies in the upper Cape Fear River demonstrates relatively high incidence of incomplete infraorbital canal; a characteristic of E. nigrum. Lack of any known major stream exchanges between headwaters of the upper Cape Fear and the Neuse River makes character introgression unlikely and suggests character convergence. E. o. maculaticeps populations within the Santee River system show clinal difference in numbers of lateral line scales; those upstream have fewer than those downstream. South of the Santee, this subspecies shows relatively little geographic variation.
1350483| The morphologically identical species of treefrogs, Hyla chryoscelis and H. versicolor, differ in the pulse-rate of the mating call, as established by previous workers, but there is much more overlap in the ranges of variation of the two species than has been realized. Individuals of both species may utter calls at from about 25 to 35 pulses per second, so within this range the influence of temperature must be considered in arriving at a specific determination. Hyla chrysoscelis is recorded for the first time from Delaware (sympatric with H. versicolor) and New Jersey. The northern range limit of this species on the Atlantic Coast is at approximately 39 North latitude, so far as presently known. 
1350798| The epibenthic harpacticoid Scottolana canadenis can be maintained over multiple generations on a diet of the flagellate Isochrysis galbana and the diatom Thalassiosira pseudonana at 20 and 25C. Adult females lived on average for 77.8 days during which the mean number of eggs produced was 406.8. The maximum number of eggs produced by a single female was 817. Both brood size and rate of egg production increase with increasing quantity of food available until a level is reached above which there is no further increase in fecundity. 
1351340|Increased sewage pollution in the Little Patuxent River, Maryland, from 1958 to 1967, brought about changes in fish migration, in abundance of resident species, and in the fish community in the stream. The upstream migration of white catfish, white perch, white sucker, and northern redhorse was apparently adversely affected by the increased sewage pollution. The downstream ranges and abundance of resident smallmouth bass and northern hog sucker decreased as did the upstream ranges and abundance of black crappie. Brown bullhead, golden shiner, redbreast sunfish, and bluegill showed different degrees of changes in abundance without reduction in their distribution ranges. Number of species and fish abundance decreased drastically in the area immediately below the chlorinated sewage effluents. Downstream, in the organically enriched areas, the fish community composition changed although there were no changes in number of species.
1351130|Percina notogramma montuosa is described from 50 specimens taken in the tributaries of the upper James River. It is best separated from Percina notogramma notogramma (which inhabits the Rappahannock, York, Potomac, and Patuxent Rivers and the lower James), on the basis of more lateral-line scales (average difference 89%) and more scales around the caudal peduncle (average difference 79%). A comparison of the meristic indices resulted in an average difference of 96%. Of 31 meristic and proportional characters 18 were found to give statistically significant differences.
1351241|Studies on the feeding habits of larch sawfly larvae, Pristiphora erichsonii (Hartig), in Maryland substantiated previous reports of a feeding preference for spur foliage over elongated shoot foliage. In field examinations on 20 infested Japanese larch trees, significantly greater quantities of foliage were consumed from spurs than from elongated shoots. However, elongated shoots constituted about 1/4 of the total foliage weight consumed. Larvae reared in the laboratory on a constant diet of elongated shoots were more restless, consumed less foliage, and incurred higher mortality than larvae reared on spur foliage. In chemical comparisons, spurs tested quantitatively higher in carbohydrates, proteins, resin, pitch, tar, and photosynthetic pigments than elongated shoots.
1351019|The distribution and abundance of the salt marsh snail (Melampus bidentatus Say) was related to the distribution of marsh plants within a Virginia estuary. The animal was found in association with 10 species of marsh phanerogams, occurring with three plant species more than 50 percent of the time. These plants were Distichlis spicata, Spartina patens, and the short form of Spartina alterniflora. Mean densities per square meter were 0.23 within the brackish-water marsh and 7.24 in the saltwater marsh. The snail was not obtained by sampling in fresh and slightly brackish-water marsh communities.
1350992| A detailed study on the life history of yellow perch in the Severn River was conducted during 1958. Additional data were collected during 1959, 1960 and 1961 on tag returns and during 1959 on growth of young-of-the-year yellow perch. Spawning took place in March and was restricted to fresh and brackish water areas of the upper Severn River and Run, where salinities were below 2. Some egg strands were also found in isolated coves downstream in years of high precipitation. Males arrived on the spawning grounds prior to the females; males remained on these areas over longer periods. The size composition of spawning stock was fairly constant throughout the spawning period. A fecundity study indicated that there was a direct relationship between the number of eggs produced and the size of the female. Hatching success of eggs was found to be adversely affected by salinity and silt. Adult yellow perch marked on the Severn River spawning grounds remained within the system since only one out of 176 tagged fish recaptured by anglers was taken outside the river. Tag returns also indicated that marked fish dispersed over the entire river system largely during the summer months. In the fall, tags were recovered in the upper half of the Severn River, an area with salinities from fresh water to 7, but females were caught in greatest numbers farther downstream. After tagging, nylon streamer tags were returned for two years, but Petersen disk tag returns were spread over a four-year period. Angler harvest was 11 per cent for 1958, 2 per cent for 1959, and 1 per cent for 1960 and 0.1 per cent for 1961 or a total 13.9 per cent of the 1261 yellow perch tagged. Comparison of the size classes of recaptured fish against the numbers tagged in that size class revealed no angler selectivity. Food habits of young-of-the-year yellow perch were similar to those of the same species in freshwater habitat; small crustaceans and insects, especially Chironomous sp., were the major food items. Growth rates of estuarine yellow perch were greater than that recorded for most freshwater habitats but were variable between year classes. Five adult yellow perch tagged in 1955 and 1956 provided checks on the validity of annuli as age indicators; annuli were present for each year following marking. 1Abundance of young-of-the-year yellow perch in the Severn River appeared to be related to the commercial catch in the upper Chesapeake Bay three and four years later and to the spawning run in the Severn River four years later. 
1350988|Thirty-nine species of marine benthonic ostracods are reported from the coast of Virginia. Three species, Callistocythere reticulata, Cytherura pseudostriata and Triginglymus denticulata are described as new. A comparison of the previously reported ostracods and the presently reported ostracods is made. It is suggested that the present ostracod fauna is closely related to the fossil Tertiary ostracod fauna of Virginia and surrounding areas.
1350840|Attacks by the white-pine weevil were observed on Virginia pine, Pinus virginiana, a species not previously reported as a host of the weevil. In a heavily infested white pine plantation, 15.2% of the naturally seeded Virginia pines were attacked. However, only 13.6% of the attacked trees supported successful broods which resulted in emergence of new adults from the stem. The remaining 86.4% of the broods were unsuccessful.
1350374|Annual U. K. production of chlorine stands at around 10<sup>6</sup> tonnes. Less than 1.5% (15,000 tonnes) finds direct application as a biocide, of which 10,000 tonnes (1976 estimate) is used by the C. E. G. B. (England and Wales) for the control of bacterial slimes and marine fouling in power station cooling circuits. This compares with 4000 tonnes used for treating domestic water supplies. Indirect biocidal application via chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides never exceeded 300 tonnes per annum. It is not standard practice in the U. K. to use chlorine in sewage treatment. Chlorination has proved to be the cheapest, most reliable and most effective method for controlling both marine fouling and bacterial slimes in power station cooling circuits. Expanded generation capacity, particularly at coastal sites, has necessitated the transportation and storage of commensurately greater volumes of liquid chlorine. The human health and safety aspect, rather than any wider environmental issues, has prompted interest in alternative methods, but no satisfactory alternative has been identified. Studies on the flora and fauna around power station outfalls in the U. K. have provided little evidence of change attributable to chlorine and temperature. Studies of organisms passing through power station cooling systems show that all taxa of marine and freshwater plankton are affected by chlorine; the degree of effect is weight related, the smaller organisms being less tolerant. The wider ecological implications of these changes are difficult to assess.
1350779|The distribution and abundance of the red-jointed fiddler crab, Uca minax, was related to the distribution of marsh plants within a Virginia estuary. The crab was found in association with 15 species of marsh phanerogams, occurring with five plant species more than 20 percent of the time. These plants were Spartina alterniflora, Scirpus robustus, Distichlis spicata, Spartina patens, and Spartina cynosuroides. Densities ranged from 0-76 burrows per square meter, mean densities being 7.88 within the brackish-water marsh and 14.35 within the salt-water marsh. The crab was not obtained by sampling the freshwater marsh.
1350984|Fifteen experiments, involving nutrient enrichment of water samples from the York River, Virginia, as a means of studying limitation of phytoplankton production, were conducted bewteen June 1962 and May 1963. Statistical analysis was employed to determine significant responses. Certain periods within this annual cycle appeared to indicate a preponderance for rapid, decisive, enrichment responses. It is postulated that these periods, following enrichment, yield the most reliable information concerning community limitations.
1351166|Blood samples from gizzard shad, largemouth bass, white perch, pumpkinseed, and toadfish were analyzed for hemoglobin, total plasma protein, total plasma cholesterol, and ion concentrations of plasma sodium, potassium, and chloride. The hemoglobin concentration and total plasma cholesterol found in a given species seem to have positive correlation with the customary activity level of that species. The plasma ionic concentrations in general agree with those found by other authors.
1351121|Interpretation of published data for the Patuxent River, Maryland, indicates that for most of the year the total biomass of phytoplankton and zooplankton was inadequate to meet the minimum energy needs of ctenophores and jellyfish.
1351248| This paper deals with studies on temperature, salinity, turbidity, phosphate, silicate, nitrate, chlorophyll a and zooplankton in the Patuxent River Estuary for a 20-month period from July 1963 to February 1965. Temperatures ranged from less than 1 C to higher than 30 C; salinities ranged from 0.1 to 19.2 and showed higher values than earlier reported investigations. Turbidities ranged from 0 to 113 ppm and decreased downstream. Phosphates ranged from 0 to 2.1 ug at/L and showed no marked seasonal or distributional patterns. Silicates decreased slightly downstream from a maximum of 135 ug at/L at the uppermost station. Nitrates ranged from 0 to 14.5 ug/L with an early spring maximum and highest values occurred at upstream stations. Chlorophyll a determinations showed minimal winter and maximal spring and summer values; a spring chlorophyll a peak closely followed a spring NO<sub>3</sub> maximum. Zooplankton, sampled with a No. 2 net, showed lowest standing crops during summer and early fall (less than 100/ m<sup>3</sup>) and highest during winter and early spring (greater than 7000/ m<sup>3</sup>). By number, copepods comprised 98.1% of total zooplankton (excluding ctenophores and coelenterates). The major components of the zooplankton were Acartia tonsa, A. clausii, and Eurytemora affinis. Eurytemora dominated upriver in lower salinities, and A. tonsa dominated downriver in higher salinities except during March and April, when it was replaced by A. clausii. 
1351201|Water and shellfish samples were collected in Chesapeake Bay during February and March 1975, for bacteriological analyses, which included enumeration and identification of coliform bacteria resistant to multiple antibiotics. Water samples were analyzed using eosin-methylene blue (EMB) agar supplemented with antibiotics. Shellfish samples were analyzed following accepted methods for examination of shellfish for coliforms and fecal coliforms. Pure cultures were isolated and evaluated for multiple drug resistance patterns using the antibiotic disk procedure to determine susceptibility. A total of 479 multiple resistant organisms was isolated. Of these, 34 were randomly picked and identified. From a compilation of the data for all the sampling sites, a trend was noted, indicating a threefold or more increase in the number of antibiotic resistant coliforms, extending up the Bay from the Chesapeake Bay Bridge north to Baltimore Harbor. The increase in number of antibiotic resistant bacteria in the vicinity of a populated area such as Baltimore supports the hypothesis that sewage effluents have a detectable influence on the water quality of Chesapeake Bay, as measured by the presence of antibiotic resistant coliform bacteria.
1350862| Thirty-six species of blue-green algae were observed in collections from the marshes of southern Delaware. All major vegetational zones support a single myxophycean association dominated by the three primary oscillatoriaceous species (sensu Drouet, 1968) Microcoleus lyngbyaceus (Ktzing) Crouan, Schizothrix calcicola (Agardh) Gomont and Schizothrix arenaria (Berkeley) Gomont. All three species contribute to the formation of coherent mats over the marsh sediments in bare areas subject to alternate periods of inundation by salt water and exposure. Firm mats are not produced unless S. arenaria is present in abundance. Pannes and pools support the largest populations of blue-green algae in the summer. Significant but reduced populations overwinter in mats of macroscopic green algae and among the dead, lodged culms of the grasses of the high and low marshes. The availability of light at the sediment surface and the extent to which it is attenuated by the marsh angiosperms are the major factors determining the distribution of the algae on the marshes. When synonymy is taken into account, there is considerable agreement among the various published accounts of the myxophycean floras of marshes in the temperate North Atlantic region. It is suggested that the myxophycean association found on the marshes of southern Delaware may, with certain reservations, be taken as the type of a single ubiquitous, endemic temperate North Atlantic blue-green algal association. 
1350568|The Allegheny spotted skunk, Spilogale p. putorius, has been observed or captured at four localities in Allegeny County, Maryland, and at one locality in Garrett County, Maryland. One observed and eight trapped specimens comprise the known records of the spotted skunk in Maryland.
1350721| The phorozooid is an almost unknown stage in the asexual generation of the pelagic tunicate Doliolum nationalis Borgert. Heretofore, it has merely been reported but not described. Phorozooids were found in surface meter and half-meter net samples taken in the Atlantic Ocean within 50 miles of the Virginia coast, in December 1959 and July, August and September 1960. The mean length of the December specimens was 2.640.46 mm, that of the July specimens 1.860.21 mm. Except for a smaller average size, the absence of gonadal tissue and the presence of a ventral peduncle, a phorozooid resembles the gonozooid, the hermaphroditic stage. 
1350850|An extratropical storm surge prediction scheme is derived empirically for a station at each end of the Chesapeake Bay. The regression equations, which are determined by the multiple correlation-screening process, give an interpolation of the wind field over the Bay by using meteorological observations with various time lags at three stations. Practical prediction equations, each containing six terms, are presented for Baltimore and Hampton Roads storm surges. The predictors for the Baltimore storm surge have time lags of twelve hours or more whereas those for the Hampton Roads storm surge have lags of six hours or more. Tests on independent data show root-mean-square errors of 0.7 feet and 0.5 feet, respectively, for Baltimore and Hampton Roads.
1350357| Oodinium cyprinodontum n. sp. is reported from the gills of Fundulus majalis, F. heteroclitus, Cyprinodon variegatus, and Lucania parva. It is characterized by a large (35-673  by 11-152 ), green-pigmented parasitic stage, and dinospores 5-9  by 2-5 . Infections have been seen from April through September. 
1350775|M. thalassinus remained an obscure species until it was discovered that it is another goby that often associates with sponges. By season and depth, Microciona prolifera was found to be the selected habitat in the Patuxent River (Green Holly Bar), adjacent Chesapeake Bay, and seaside mud-oyster habitats. Past and present distributions are compared with the 141 specimens that were collected between 1958 and 1968. Additional comments are presented on body morphology and meristics, color, aquarium observations, food, behavior, growth, larvae, gonad condition, and associated species. The ranges of Microgobius gulosus and Gobiosoma robustum are extended to the Patuxent River, Maryland.
1350630|An investigation was conducted to resolve the cause of death of four white-tailed deer, Odocoileus virginianus, that died under unusual circumstances. Necropsy and field investigations suggested poisoning, but laboratory and experimental studies did not confirm these observations. Cultural procedures and histopathologic studies failed to indicate an infectious process. Artificially induced fatal trauma in one experimental deer reproduced the necropsy findings elicited by the clinical subjects. These findings were correlated with past records on known shock cases, and a conclusive diagnosis of mortality by deer-pursuing dogs was derived. The deer were driven by dogs into a fence with sufficient force to cause fatal trauma. Events leading to this situation have been delineated.
1350690|Oithona colcarva, n. sp., is described and compared with related species. It is common in coastal and estuarine waters of the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic coast south of Cape Cod. Since 1925 it has been incorrectly known as Oithona brevicornis.
1351009|A knowledge of the routes and rates of littoral drift is a prerequisite to predicting the probable effects of proposed nearshore structures on the maintenance of a stretch of coast. The prevailing patterns of littoral drift can, at least in some cases, be more reliably established by inference from the long-term patterns of erosion and deposition than through short-term field studies of sediment transport. This paper describes, for an 8 mile stretch of Chesapeake Bay coast, a case study designed to delimit the long-term patterns of erosion and accretion in order to establish the prevailing littoral drift. The changes in the volume of the nearshore sand prism between Cove Point and Long Beach over the period from 1847-48 to 1944-45 were determined from original boat sheets. The analysis showed that there are two large areas of sand deposition-one just south of the cape at Flag Ponds and the other off Cove Point-and an area of erosion in the nearshore zone just north of Cove Point. The volumes of sand eroded from the coast and introduced into the Bay over this same period were determined from a comparison of original topographic maps. Comparison of the two analyses shows that the sand removed from the cliffs is not being locally deposited over most of the coast between Long Beach and Cove Point. The routes of nearshore sediment transport inferred from the sediment budget data indicate that there is a prevailing longshore drift from north of Long Beach to just south of the cape at Flag Ponds where an eddy interrupts the sand movement. The longshore transport is reestablished south of the Flag Ponds and extends to Cove Point.
1351177|Striped bass tagged during winter (N = 104) from depths of 60 to 80 feet were recaptured (N = 14, 13 per cent) in two general areas, the upper Chesapeake Bay and the Potomac River, during the following 10 months. They were tagged in January, 1959 from drift gillnets that exploited overwintering aggregations in waters just above freezing. About half of the fish exhibited over-inflated swimbladders due to rapid ascent and pressure decreases, but the remainder showed no such evidence externally. Recaptured fish were represented about equally by these two general groups. The study corroborated previous studies that striped bass can be tagged and released from deep water of Chesapeake Bay, be subjected to winter hazards in tidewater, and still be recaptured in sufficient numbers to provide meaningful data for longterm investigations.
1350845|There is no practical and exact way of telling the sex of the striped bass, Roccus saxatilis (Walbaum), from external characteristics since this species does not exhibit sexual dimorphism, except when they are running ripe. A method of gonadal biopsy is described here whereby a tissue specimen of the gonad is obtained from a live fish for sex determination. A pair of serrated alligator-jawed forceps is used as the tool for obtaining the gonadal tissue via the sterile urogenital tract. The method was tested on two age groups of fish, ages II and III, in conjunction with the use of a nylon-streamer tag. The results of a duplicated test series show that in the laboratory correct tissue sampling was attained in 19 of 20 tries (95%) and sex identification was 100% correct in age III and 89% correct in age II. Only 3 of 20 biopsied fish were found to have unhealing gonad excision sites at autopsy. A mixed hierarchial model analysis of variance indicated near significant differences in survival time at the 5% level among the three sub-groups of fish, i. e., biopsied and tagged, tagged only, and control.
1351090|The dominant food items in 817 stomachs of weakfish collected in North Carolina waters from 1967 to 1970 were penaeid and mysid shrimps, anchovies, and clupeid fishes. Dominance of various food items shifted depending upon the technique used to describe food habits: percent occurrence, percent number, or percent volume. Age 0 weakfish fed primarily on shrimp and anchovy. In Age I fish, shrimp and anchovy continued to dominate the food though other fishes appeared in the diet. Importance of shrimp in the diet decreased from Age II on. Older weakfish fed upon the clupeid species that were dominant in a given area.
1350724|The original record books of George Chapman, Esq., haul seine fisherman for American shad, Alosa sapidissima, in the Potomac River during the period 1814 to 1824, include the numbers of shad and herring, A. aestivalis and A. pseudoharengus, caught and sold each day. From the numerous miscellaneous notes included in the records, estimates of fishing effort were made. Yearly shad catches ranged from 27,939 to 180,755 fish, while the numbers of herrings caught and sold ranged from 343,341 to 1,068,932. The estimated catch per haul was 800 shad in late March, 2250 in mid-April, and 1200 per haul in late May. During the 11-year period almost one million shad were taken. Catches from this fishery were equal to about one-third of the catch of shad by all gears from the Potomac River during a 11-year period (1946-56). Other species were undoubtedly captured, but were not sold. Fishing for shad in the early 1800's was evidently far more lucrative than it is at the present time.
1350341|Weekly setting frequencies of oysters, bryozoans, barnacles, mussels, and flat-worms were observed in Broad Creek, Talbot County, Maryland, during 1963, 1964, and 1965 on asbestos-plate collectors. Except for an early oyster set in 1965, all species set in greatest numbers at approximately the same time in a given year, but the height of the peak of setting intensity varied from year to year. Oysters and mussels were more abundant on the undersurface when collectors were 4 inches apart, and on the upper surface when they were 1 inch apart. Setting of barnacles, bryozoans, and flatworms was greater on the undersurface of all plates. In one year of testing (1963), oyster setting was similar on shells and plates. It is recommended that shells be planted in Broad Creek during the first week of July to catch seed oysters.
1350935|Length, girth and weight were taken from a series of toadfish. Prediction equations for each variable in terms of another were derived. It was found that these various measurements correlate so highly with one another (r = 0.97) that they can be used interchangeably in making comparisons of various kinds.
1351226| A medium-sized female calico crab was dredged from an oyster bar at a depth of 30 feet off Cove Point, Calvert County, on March 30, 1962 at a temperature of about 6 C and salinity of 13. It is the second record from the Maryland part of the estuary; the first was reported in 1879 at Crisfield. Its upstream occurrence seems related to the unusual hydrographic and stormy conditions of the second week of March. It more common occurrence and distribution in southern Chesapeake Bay are discussed and illustrated. 
1351254|Two zoeae and one megalopa are described from laboratory-reared specimens of Euceramus praelongus. These specimens do not differ significantly from a small number of plankton specimens. Criteria suggested for separating the six known porcellanid genera in field collections are sufficient for separating Euceramus praelongus from three western North Atlantic porcellanids, the larvae of which have been described in part.
1351064| Cyathura polita is a benthic, estuarine isopod found in restricted habitats, but normally tolerant of salinities between 0.5 and 32 . Established populations of C. polita are not found in the oceanic habitat or in fresh water. Their absence from these two habitats may be the result of the failure of some stage in the life cycle to osmoregulate. Measurements of freezing point depressions of the body fluids of juvenile and adult C. polita which had been subjected to salinities of 0.0 to 40  (NaCl) for 3 hours were used to show that both stages in the life cycle osmoregulate. At low salinities the juveniles and adults were equally able to osmoregulate. At the highest salinity, higher than in normal habitats of C. polita, adults were better able to osmoregulate than juveniles. Part of the animals were subjected to 44,000 r of gamma irradiation from a Cs137 source and were then subjected to the various salinities. At low salinities the juveniles and adults of the irradiated group were equally able to regulate, and their ability was equal to that of the animals subjected to salinity changes alone. At the highest salinity, however, juveniles and adults that were irradiated had less ability to osmoregulate then the non-irradiated animals. Juveniles were more strongly affected by irradiation than adults. Irradiation, then, decreases the ability to osmoregulate only at the highest salinity. 
1350540|The capture of an adult eastern soft-shell turtle, Trionyx ferox spinifera (LeSueur), in brackish water of a branch of West River, a tributary of Chesapeake Bay, Anne Arundel County, Maryland, is regarded as an example of introduction by man from an out-of-state source. It has been doubtfully recorded from the Susquehanna River above the Maryland line. It may have occurred naturally in the Youghiogheny River in the Ohio drainage system in extreme western Maryland, but mine waste pollution may have exterminated it. Although introduced in the Potomac River at Cumberland, Maryland, from West Virginia over 75 years ago, the stocking was apparently unsuccessful. Except for the present record, there is no authoritative evidence that it is now present in Maryland.
1351016|Two species of alpheid-like burrowing shrimp, Ogyrides limicola and O. alphaerostris, occurring in estuaries of North Carolina were taken frequently in nocturnal surface plankton samples. Ogyrides limicola is fairly widespread in meso-polyhaline reaches of the estuarine system but O. alphaerostris appears to be confined to immediate vicinity of inlets. Samples from this study and museum collections provide evidence that the animals have a one-year life cycle with a spawning season in summer. Females greatly outnumber males in most collections studied.
1350550|Laboratory procedures and the design of new hatchery type equipment for obtaining successful fattening, conditioning, and spawning of Chesapeake Bay oysters in 4 to 6 weeks are described. Two new methods are presented for obtaining free oyster spat, one for relatively clear estuarine areas, and one for areas which have heavy particle loads. The first method, designed for relatively clear estuarine areas, yields free oyster spat two hours after the larvae have set on a substrate by the periodic use of small underwater jets of bay water every two hours in the setting trays. The second method, designed for areas which have heavy particle loads, yields half-inch single oyster spat in approximately three to four weeks by allowing the oyster spat to remain on a substrate Mylar sheet with removal being accomplished by shaking the sheet in a barrel of water.
1350928| A deformed stripped bass with typical pugheaded features, weighing 51 pounds and measuring 19.3 inches fork length, is described and compared with a normal specimen. A six-year-old male, it apparently exceeds all previous size records for pugheaded striped bass. The specimen possesses an acutely steep forehead and pushed-in snout, exophthalmic eyes, enlarged and broadened mandible, and incomplete closure of jaws. It was in good condition, although size attained at each age was less than that for normal striped bass at the same age. The literature is reviewed in some detail and factors that induce pugheadedness, believed due to environment and heredity, and not mechanical injury, are discussed briefly. 
1350973|Seedlings of Spartina patens (Ait.) Muhl. were exposed to thermoperiods of 18-14, 22-18, 26-22, and 30-26 C under both short- and long-day conditions for a 12-week experimental period. Seedlings in the long-day photoperiod produced significantly more biomass than those under the short-day photoperiod in the 22-18, 26-22, and 30-26 C thermoperiods. Seedling biomass increased from the 22-18 to the 26-22 to the 30-26 C thermoperiod under long-day conditions. Under short-day conditions, only the thermoperiod increase from 26-22 to 30-26 C resulted in a significant increase in seedling biomass. Seedlings grown under long-day conditions were taller and produced more culms and rhizomes than those under short-day conditions at the same temperatures. Flowering occurred only under long-day conditions in the 22-18, 26-22, and 30-26 C thermoperiods and only on seedlings left under experimental conditions for an extended period of time.
1350515| The effects of predation and competition on survival of the barnacle, Balanus improvisus Darwin, in the upper Chesapeake Bay varied from location to location in 1972 and probably vary from year to year. The flatworm, Stylochus ellipticus Girard, was the predominant predator on barnacles, and the bryozoan, Victorella pavida Kent, was the major spatial competitor. Those intertidal barnacles not killed by the flatworms or bryozoans died from exposure to a combination of high winds (25 knots) and low air temperature (-9 C) in the winter. Subtidal barnacle populations were not eliminated by biotic or physical factors and may be the source of those larvae recolonizing the intertidal zone every spring. 
1350629|A survey of sport fishing in a 1500 square mile area within the Virginia portion of Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries was made from mid-April through October to gain general knowledge of the fishery and its relation to commercial landings. Effort estimates were based on daily boat-counts from a bridge overlooking the York River check area and aerial boat-counts from flights over the entire survey area. Voluntary catch records and interviews were the sources of catch-rate information. Logbook records were generally different from interview records and set catch-rates at a significantly higher level in the areas where both methods were used. Reported sport catches of the four most important commercial food fishes amounted to a low of approximately 8.1 per cent in 1955 to a high of 27.2 per cent in 1959, of the total catch. The decline of croaker in the catch was severe, 2.2 fish per man-hour in 1955 to 0.2 fish per man-hour in 1960. A decrease in catch rates of croaker as the number of fishermen aboard party boats increased was noted. Spot catches increased and became the most abundant fish in the fisherman's creel during 1959 and 1960, 1.5 and 2.6 fish per man-hour of fishing. They were also the most abundant fish for 1958 but at a catch rate of 0.8 fish per man-hour. Weakfish or gray sea trout declined from 0.7 fish per man-hour in 1955 to 0.2 fish per man-hour of fishing during 1960. The observed increases in availability of striped bass, puffer, and flounder compared to the declining availability of other fishes is interesting although there may be no connection between these stocks.
1351253|A comparative skeletal study was made of the young (10-130 mm) of three closely related species of flounders (Paralichthys dentatus, P. lethostigma, and P. albigutta), which occur along the southeastern Atlantic Coast of the United States. The young flounders are difficult to identify unless the pigment pattern is developed, and this usually does not occur in specimens less than 40 mm long. 149 specimens (10-130 mm) were used in the study, of which 122 (10-60 mm) were cleared and stained. External meristic data were collected and skeletal structures compared by observation and measurement. Most of the adult skeletal characteristics had developed in fishes of 50 mm. Osteologically, vertebral and pterygiophore numbers produced the best separation with P. dentatus having the highest counts and P. albigutta the lowest. Total gill rakers on the first gill arch and lateral-line scales were useful characters with the highest numbers occurring in P. dentatus and the lowest in P. albigutta.
1351381| In a shoal environment traversed by tidal currents the flow near the sediments is retarded by friction over the bottom and is relatively turbulent. Measurements of the currents as retarded in this way are presented. The flow, 1 cm off the bottom, the level from which most of the sampling was done, is about 0.4 that of the tidal current above. This ratio persists through a wide range of currents. The epibenthic waters were compared with the overlying, free-flowing waters of the tidal current with respect to: temperature, salinity, density; dissolved phosphate, nitrate, silicate, and oxygen; dry weight, ash weight, and ash-free weight of particulate matter; phytoplankton by species, presented by counts and by volumes and including microflagellates as a group; plankton pigments, and plankton productivity as determined by O<sub>2</sub> changes in light and dark bottles. For every parameter measured there were differences from time to time between the character of the epibenthos and the overlying waters. This was the result of a lag or delayed mixing into the epibenthic zone of retarded flow but no persistent or cumulative differences developed. For some work it is feasible to ignore this lag in mixing; however to understand the utilization of plankton from the water column and to consider other processes where exchange rates and transitory accumulation effects are involved, it is important to realize that there is an ecological discontinuity between the epibenthic and the overlying waters. Over the one-year period of these observations several correlations existed between parameters measured in the tidal waters and these are discussed. One of the most significant ecologically is the positive correlation between the abundance of microflagellates and productivity. Apparently the microflagellates, rather than the better known larger plankton, are the major primary producers in the estuarine waters. 
1350366|Two dune grasses, Uniola paniculata L. and Ammophila breviligulata Fernald, were sprayed with artificial sea water, artificial sea water plus micronutrients, and artificial sea water plus nitrate (1 ppm). They were initially sprayed daily for 40 days, washed free of encrusted salt spray, and then sprayed daily for an additional 40 days. Neither species showed statistically significant increases in height or weight as a result of any of the salt spray treatments. Washing the plants after 40 days did cause salt spray damage to the tips of the plants in all three treatments.
1351311|Commercial landings of scup were sampled at Hampton, Virginia, to obtain estimates of the size and age composition of the catch. The size composition of the catch varied during the fishing season and the polymodal nature of the length-frequency distribution indicated a number of age groups present in the catch. Scales and otoliths were examined to ascertain the age structure of the catch. Inconsistent sculpturing of scales from the same fish and failure to delineate entire rings on the scale past the first two rings did not permit aging of fish suspected of being older than two years. Annular marks on otoliths were not resolved. The length-weight relationship was derived. It is suggested that the scup resource is being over-exploited. Both total landings of scup throughout their range and catch per trip of the winter trawler fleet have declined. Small fish, by market sorting standards, have become an increasingly important component of the landed catch because of the scarcity of larger fish. A larger meshed trawl net is recommended to permit escapement of small fish.
1350460|Most invertebrates cannot maintain a body temperature independent of their environment. However, various physiological and ecological strategies have evolved that enable poikilotherms to metabolically compensate for thermal changes. To evaluate the probable metabolic success of an organism in a region of thermal additions, a number of factors need to be considered. These include body size, stage in the life cycle of an organism, cyclic changes, and the habitat of the animal.
1350983| Observations were made on the movement and distribution of zinc 65 and the distribution of stable zinc in water, sediments, and macrobiota of two estuarine ponds. Pond I was essentially a closed system and Pond II was connected to an adjoining estuary. In Pond I, zinc 65 moved rapidly from the water to other components of the ecosystem so that after 1 day only 66% of zinc 65 remained in the water. In Pond II, approximately 82% of zinc 65 was flushed out within 1 day by tidal exchange of water between the pond and the adjoining estuary; of the zinc 65 remaining, 36% was in bottom sediment, 59% in the water (one-third of the amount in the water was associated with suspended material), and 5% in the macrobiota. After 100 days, the bulk of zinc 65 and stable zinc was in the sediment of each pond. Analysis of specific activity (c zinc 65 / g zinc) in components of the ecosystem indicated that the exchange of zinc between sediment and water dominated the cycling of this element and controlled the distribution of zinc 65 in the ponds. 
1350906|Twenty-four hour, upper lethal temperatures were determined at different acclimation levels for Mya arenaria, Macoma balthica, Mulinia lateralis and Gemma gemma. Limited information was obtained for Macoma phenax. Young Mya arenaria and Macoma balthica were more tolerant of high temperature than were older clams of the same species. This difference, and that between the two species, may be related to their vertical benthic distribution. Both species were less tolerant of high temperature than Gemma gemma and the more southerly ranging Macoma phenax. Mulinia lateralis was similar to Mya arenaria and Macoma balthica in its high temperature tolerance, although it ranges further to the south. If the less tolerant Mya were killed by high environmental temperature, the more resistant Gemma could then occupy the vacated habitat, precluding resettlement of Mya due to larval Mya-adult Gemma competition for space. Excessive thermal discharge over Chesapeake Bay benthos in summer could affect spawning patterns of Mya and Macoma balthica, eliminate Mya and influence Mya - Gemma competitive interactions.
1351095| The effect of power plant cooling water in raising natural water temperatures at a location near the power plant on the Patuxent River estuary is clearly evident from thermograph records. Surface temperature at a station 333 m (1,000 ft) downstream from the discharge canal was raised an average of about 4 C, and at times by as much as 8 C. Temperature rises were greatest during the winter. Infrared imagery showed that elevated surface temperatures could be detected about 5.5 km (3 nautical miles) upstream at flood tide. Temperature profiles obtained from airborne radiation equipment revealed a complicated surface temperature pattern and also showed the effects of density differences and wind action on the steam-electric station (S. E. S.) effluent plume. Mean annual salinity for a 5-year period (1963-1967) was highest in 1966, about 12.3 , and lowest in 1967, about 9.9 . Dissolved oxygen values for 1966-1967 ranged from 3.2 to 15.6 mg/l, and saturation ranged from 55 to 152%. Turbidity levels were inversely related to salinity, with the highest annual mean of 28 JCU (Jackson Candle Units) occurring in 1967, the lowest salinity year. The extreme tide range was 2.1 m (6.7 ft); mean water levels at the Patuxent Bridge were highest in summer and lowest in winter. Water stages are more affected by wind speed and direction than by flow in the river. 
1351061|As part of a continuing program begun in 1955, catches of Atlantic menhaden, Brevoortia tyrannus, were sampled for age and length at reduction plants from Florida to Massachusetts. For the years 1955-1964, lengths at the time of first annulus formation were back-calculated from age-1, -2, and -3 menhaden collected at each port. Length frequency distributions, derived from monthly and seasonal totals were plotted for the 1953-1963 year classes. Meristic data on population structure were reviewed. General conclusions drawn from these and other supporting data were (1) mixing of menhaden of all ages from all areas occurs south of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, during the winter, (2) at the time of first annulus formation in early spring, age-1 menhaden segregate along the coast by size, which increases from south to north, (3) all menhaden do not return to the same area they occupied the previous year, (4) for normal year classes, recruitment into the fishable population may not be complete until late in the second summer of life (age-1); for exceptionally large year classes recruitment may not be complete until the beginning of the third summer (age-2), and (5) Atlantic menhaden constitute a single homogeneous population, rather than two or more subpopulations as previously hypothesized.
1350564|Populations of Macoma balthica, sampled by a hydraulic dredge in the Patuxent River, were studied in respect to density and size-frequency distribution. Density varied from station to station and from one sampling period to the other in the same station, indicating spotty and localized populations. Size-frequency distributions for a given station were fairly homogeneous, excluding small sizes (below 11 mm) which can go through the meshes of the collecting gear. The average size of the Macoma decreases toward the lower section of the river where the salinity is higher.
1350867|Consumption rates of Mnemiopsis leidyi by butterfish, Peprilus triacanthus, ranged between 4 ml/gm dry wt/hr to 184 ml/gm dry wt/hr, depending on fish size and feeding history. These rates of consumption supply adequate food to support the metabolism of the fish and probably account for the late summer-early fall decline in population levels of Mnemiopsis observed in Narragansett Bay.
1351080|Metabolites of DDT were detected in five out of six major organs of adult blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, collected from the York River, Virginia, during the summer of 1972. Total residue concentrations were highest in the hepatopancreas (55-217 ppb) and below the limit of detection in the heart and associated serum. Concentrations in pooled gonad samples (ovaries + testes) were quite variable (9-67 ppb) and correlated with the developmental stage of the ovaries. Residue levels were low in the gills (6-31 ppb) and edible claw and backfin muscles (1-13 ppb). DDT itself was not detected in any of the organs. Adult blue crabs were exposed for 12 hours to 0.01, 0.1, and 1.0 ppm DDT in water then monitored for 240 hours with respect to metabolism and distribution of residues. No significant mortality was noted. DDT was absorbed through the gills and transported to the hepatopancreas via the hemolymph. Biotransformation and distribution of DDT and its metabolites apparently was regulated by the hepatopancreas. Induction of metabolic transformation of DDT to DDD and DDE occurred immediately. The hepatopancreas and developing ovaries served as major storage sites for residues although elevated concentrations were noted in edible muscle.
1350587|Summer flounder, Paralichthys dentatus, and southern flounder, P. lethostigma, extensively use Pamilco Sound and adjacent estuaries as nursery areas. Young gulf flounder, P. albigutta, are rarely found. Flounders remain in the estuaries for the first 18-20 months of their life before moving into ocean waters. Benthic substrate and salinity are the two most important factors governing distribution. Southern flounder are most abundant in areas of low salinity and clayey silt or organic rich mud bottoms. Summer flounder are most abundant in areas of moderate to high salinities and sandy bottom.
1350516|Although scattered individuals of Juncus roemerianus Scheele may be found northward in New Jersey, Long Island, New York, Connecticut and southward along the Laguna Madre in Texas, Mexico and on the Caribbean islands, the species is most prevalent along the south Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the eastern United States. Here there are approximately 3,174,333 hectares of salt marsh of which 72.9% occur on the Gulf coast and 27.1% on the Atlantic coast. Juncus roemerianus dominates 20.7% of the marsh in the south Atlantic states and 7.3% of the Gulf coast marshes, but covers more marsh area on the Gulf coast (170,067 hectares) than on the Atlantic coast (149,316 hectares). Thus, there are approximately 320,000 hectares of salt marsh dominated by J. roemerianus in North America.
1351022|Intra vitam staining with neutral red dye vividly stains live copepods, providing a rapid method of sorting dead copepods from live. Organisms stained and preserved in acidic media retain coloration for several days, allowing large numbers of organisms to be leisurely sorted following bioassays. Cooling the preserved samples increases color retention. Copepods and cladocerans filter and ingest carmine particles providing an indication of feeding activity. Staining with neutral red at concentrations of 3:200,000 to 1:200,000 is relatively independent of temperature over a range of 5 to 30 C.
1351243|An improved procedure for the bacteriological testing of whole crabs (Callinectes sapidus) is described. This method was used effectively in a three year study to test crabs at various points along the production line. Results showed a general improvement in the bacteriological quality of the crabs after cooking and cooling and a general decline in the bacteriological quality of the crabs from the picking table and the picked meat as the study period progressed.
1350936| A young-of-the-year (60.8 mm standard length, 77.7 mm total length) spadefish, Chaetodipterus faber, was found to survive low winter temperatures in shallow tidewater a few feet from the Chesapeake Bay, Clavert County, Maryland. It was discovered in a temporary shore pool at a water temperature of 7.5C (44.5F) with a salinity of 16 ppt. in December, 1959. 
1351263|During the 1972 growing season, the productivity of a short form and a tall form of Spartina alterniflora was studied by the harvest method in the vicinity of the Rutgers Marine Sciences Center on Great Bay near Tuckerton, New Jersey. The aboveground biomass of living and dead grass was determined and subsamples were analyzed for caloric equivalents, ash, nitrogen, crude protein, crude fiber, ether extract, and nitrogen free extract. S. alterniflora had peak standing crops of 1,592 g/ m<sup>2</sup> for tall form and 592 g/ m<sup>2</sup> for short form. Standing crops of crude fiber, ether extract, nitrogen free extract, and caloric values are a function of dry matter production while nitrogen components seem to be influenced by some other factor. Seventy percent of the crude protein was present in early summer at a time when dry weight was less than 50% of its maximum value. The data indicate that the amount of nitrogen that the plant accumulates in its aboveground parts early in the growing season is directly related to the peak of dry matter standing crop. The early spring accumulation of nitrogen may act to offset shortages at the peak of the growing season. The chemical composition of litter and soil samples suggests that biological breakdown of plant material occurs at the soil surface.
1351207|Gammarus daiberi n. sp. and Gammarus palustris n. sp. are newly described from estuaries of the Chesapeake and Delaware Bay regions, and further tide-water records of Gammarus tigrinus Sexton, G. fasciatus Say, and G. mucronatus Say are given. A key to American Atlantic species of Gammarus (sens. lat.) is included. In contrast to amphi-Atlantic Gammarus faunas of northern glaciated coastlines, the Gammarus species of the Middle Atlantic States are North American endemic.
1351185|Zoospores were obtained from a protist, parasitic in the clam Macoma balthica. It has been previously suggested that the parasite is either a closely related species or is the same species as Labyrinthomyxa marina (Dermocystidium marinum), which is found in the oyster Crassostrea virginica. The demonstration of zoosporulation and the description of zoospore micromorphology are here offered as evidence of similarity between the two parasites. The zoospores were biflagellated, pyriform cells with mastigonemes along one side of the anterior flagellum. Negative staining revealed substructure in the mastigonemes.
1351323| Fifteen provenances of white spruce (Picea glauca var. glauca) from Canada were studied in Western Maryland (elevation 2,800 feet). The experiment was replicated in 20 blocks. Five years after planting the survival was 99.3%. Two most northern provenances (48 N. or more) were the slowest growing. The most rapidly growing progeny originated from Denbigh in southeastern Ontario. All other provenances west of this point showed a decreasing growth in height with increasing western longitude. A similar pattern of decreasing height growth potential from the east to the west was among the provenances from southern Quebec. 
1350513|From January 1972 through December 1973 weekly zooplankton samples were taken in lower Narragansett Bay in connection with a phytoplankton study. Fifty percent (by numbers) of the zooplankton were calanoid copepods, the dominant species being Acartia clausi. In 1973, individuals of summer-fall zooplankton species were much more numerous than in 1972, but Acartia clausi, the dominant winter-spring species, was equally abundant both years. Release of grazing pressure by zooplankton did not appear to trigger the winter-spring flowering of 1973, but a definite relationship was seen between ctenophores, herbivorous zooplankton and phytoplankton in the summer and fall of 1973. Moderate numbers of zooplankton were present in the winter around the time of the phytoplankton bloom, but the major peaks of biomass and numbers occurred in the spring when water temperatures were on the increase. Zooplankton biomass dropped to near zero in late summer and fall.
1350555|Albumin polymorphism has been detected by electrophoresis in acrylamide gels in the white perch, Morone americana. Three phenotypes were present: Alb AA, a fast migrating albumin; Alb BB, a slow migrating albumin; and Alb AB, a combination of the two. The distribution of these three phenotypes was analyzed in a small sample of white perch from the Patuxent River Estuary, Maryland. The observed phenotypic distribution was not significantly different from the expected, indicating possible control by two alleles of a single gene. This polymorphism could be used for studying populations and population genetics of the white perch along the Atlantic Coast.
1350449|At the present time some 86 fossil-fueled plants are discharging their thermal effluents into the waters abounding the East Coast of the United States. Emphasis is placed on the rapid development of nuclear power facilities, which because of their vast requirements for cooling water, may further threaten areas already plagued by water pollution problems. The consequences of synergistic reactions in polluted waters must be considered when dealing with the ecological effects of thermal discharges. Of major ecological importance is any attempt to concentrate both fossil-fueled and nuclear plants in localized regions of various lakes, bays and estuaries. Some of the major areas of concern are briefly discussed.
1350591|The macrobenthos (> 1.0 mm) in the Calvert Cliffs region of the Chesapeake Bay was sampled over a three year period (1971-1974). Four distinct communities (shell, 3 m sand, 6 m muddy-sand, 9 m mud) were identified and described using single-linkage cluster and discriminant analyses. Substrate characteristics were the major environmental factor controlling the spatial distribution of macrobenthic communities within the study area, and within a habitat communities were relatively homogeneous throughout the region. The structure of the 6 m muddy-sand community variously resembled the 3 m sand or the 9-m mud community depending upon season and year.
1350835| Distribution, quantitative abundance, and period of maximum set of the polyp stage of the sea nettle Chrysaora quinquecirrha DeSor were investigated in the York River, Virginia, from September 1966 to November 1967. The distribution and abundance of the medusoid stage were also determined. Effects of varying salinity and temperature on the polyp were investigated in the laboratory. The polyp stage occurred on oysters and shells dredged in a 12-mile segment of the river. Medusae appeared in tributary creeks in June, 15 to 30 days earlier than in the river. In the river, medusae were observed between 12 June and 2 October; peak abundance was reached during the week of 17-21 July. Polyps had a minimum salinity tolerance of 5-10; the upper limit exceeded 40. A gradual temperature rise (1 C/day) between 1-29 C caused no mortality of polyps. Strobilation occurred at 20-22 C. One new ephyrae predator was found: a barnacle, Balanus eburneus. 
1351355|The identification of monogeneid parasites and their hosts has received little attention in the area of the Middle Atlantic Bight. This paper consists of discussions and descriptions of nine species of Monogenea of the genera Monocotyle Taschenberg 1878; Empruthotrema Johnston and Tiegs 1922; Loimopapillosum Hargis 1956b; Benedenia Diesing 1858; Tagia Sproston 1946; Bicotylophorinae Yamaguti 1963; Clupeocotyle Hargis 1955c; and Mazocraeoides Price 1936. Three species (Bicotylophera trachinoti, Clupeocotyle brevoortia, Mazocraeoides georgei) are completely redescribed and they and the remaining six are reported from the Chesapeake Bay area for the first time.
1350908|Male Gambusia affinis spend more time courting stationary females or those swimming slowly than those swimming at a faster speed. During courtship there is considerable interaction with the other fish, and this causes each male to spend only brief periods with each female. Males are highly aggressive toward each other and are submissive to the usually larger females. Aggression between males is significantly reduced in the absence of females.
1350551|The suspended sediment yield of the Susquehanna River in 1969 at Conowingo, Maryland is estimated to have been approximately 0.32 10<sup>6</sup> metric tons (0.35 10<sup>6</sup> short tons). The mean water discharge of the Susquehanna in 1969 at Conowingo was only about 684 m<sup>3</sup>/ sec (24,146 cfs), or about 70 percent of its long term average discharge of 985 m<sup>3</sup>/ sec (34,791 cfs). The estimated suspended sediment discharge is based on daily water discharge records of the Conowingo Hydroelectric Plant located approximately 15 km upstream from the mouth of the River, and on determinations of the concentration of suspended sediment in the discharge water every day during the spring period of high runoff and on alternate days during the remainder of the year.
1351087|Larval white perch, Morone americana, and larval striped bass, M. saxatilis, are difficult to distinguish morphologically in the size range 8 mm to 20 mm total length. Column acrylamide electrophoresis of the proteins produced three major bands for white perch and two major bands for striped bass.
1351107|Skipjack tuna, Katsuwonus pelamis, were collected from charter fishing boats operating from Hatteras and Oregon Inlet, North Carolina, from June-August for the years 1964-1965. Length-weight data were subdivided by year, area, and sex; and analysis of covariance indicated that one regression equation adequately described this relationship. Dorsal spine cross-sections were employed to assign absolute ages to the skipjack tuna. It was concluded that rings observed on the spine cross-sections were growth-marks, and that the growth-marks were annuli. Of 558 spine sections, 46 or 8.2% were unreadable. Back-calculated lengths were determined from spine radius measurements by direct proportion. At the end of the first year the average fish length was 406 mm, 2nd year-493 mm, 3rd year-569 mm, and 4th year-638 mm. Asymptotic length and growth rate was estimated to be 872 mm (K = 0.154) and 784 mm (K = 0.195) for males and females. Mean lengths of fish of each age group were well separated; yet a great deal of overlap existed in the ranges. This was attributed to the relatively rapid-growing, short-lived fish. Length data were subdivided according to year, area, and sex. Analysis of variance of these data indicated a statistically significant difference between years and areas, but not between sexes. This was attributed to the differences in the age composition of the skipjack tuna collected at Hatteras and Oregon Inlet.
1351209|Acid phosphatase activity was demonstrated in the granules found in the blood cells of the lobster, Homarus americanus. Sites of activity were observed to be localized in the granules of all three types of cells-the eosinophil, the ovoid basophil, and the spindular basophil. Due to the concentration of reactive sites on the limiting membrane and on the stroma, it is suggested that the enzyme is either bound to, or associated with, the membrane, or else the membrane is the specific site of action for the enzyme.
1351112| Approximately 90 Km<sup>2</sup> of Chesapeake Bay contiguous with the Severn, South, Rhode and West Rivers were surveyed by in vivo chlorophyll fluorescence and captured samples following a large pulse of rainfall in summer, 1971. The growth and subsequent dissipation of blooms containing chlorophyll a concentrations up to 40  pre-bloom values were completed within 21 days. A distinction is made between the blooms produced by nutrient pulses and dinoflagellate blooms normally observed in the fall. In the former, there is a complete change of phytoplankton relative species composition. The latter is a phototactic segregation of species already existing within the water column. The methodology is presented and a mathematical description is attempted. 
1350400|Fifty-one recent (1956-1960) specimens now firmly establish the xanthid crab, Panopeus herbsti, as part of Maryland and Virginia's mud crab fauna. Nine specimens of this mud crab were taken in Chesapeake Bay as far north as the Patuxent River while 42 were recorded for Chincoteague Bay. Some specimens from Chesapeake Bay were larger and found in shallower water than previously reported. The salinity range for this species has been extended from 14-19 ppt. to 10-34 ppt.
1350744|Larvae of the naked goby were collected in large numbers during a series of plankton surveys made in the York and Pamunkey Rivers in the spring and summer months of 1961 and 1962. The greatest numbers and the smallest larvae were taken upriver from the area where adult gobies are commonly found. The distribution of larvae indicate that they did not move upriver in the subsurface wedge of salty water, however their presence far upriver from the apparent spawning area cannot be explained. The larvae appeared in the same upstream areas in equal abundance during late May and early June in both 1961 and 1962.
1350748|The recent capture and location of several barrelfish reestablishes this species in Chesapeake Bay and the Middle Atlantic Bight waters. Additional comments and meristic and morphometric comparisons are made between small and large specimens from Maryland and Florida. Evidence is presented to confirm Merriman's speculation that northern inshore captures of this species are Gulf Stream transports while large adults inhabit the deep waters off Florida.
1351063|Food habits of the skipjack tuna, Katsuwonus pelamis, were determined for specimens collected from the Hatteras and Oregon Inlet charter boat fishery. Stomach content analysis showed 55% empty stomachs. Fishes, mollusks, and crustaceans were consumed by the skipjack tuna. Fishes were the most frequent food item at both Hatteras and Oregon Inlet, followed by mollusks and crustaceans at Hatteras and by crustaceans and mollusks at Oregon Inlet. At Hatteras, fishes constituted 90% of the food by volume, with mollusks and crustaceans contributing 7 and 3%, respectively. At Oregon Inlet, mollusks and fishes were about equal in volume, with crustaceans contributing about 1%. As skipjack tuna increased in length the volume of crustaceans decreased and the volume of mollusks increased. There was a tendency for fishes to be less important and mollusks to be more important as length increased.
1350773|The average number of hawks observed per hour in autumn migration between 1951-1954 and 1958-1961 at White Marsh, Maryland, was compared. The counts indicated that the status of the ten species observed may be divided into three categories: (1) relatively stable species (red-tailed hawk), (2) declining species (sparrow hawk, red-shouldered hawk, osprey, marsh hawk, and broad-winged hawk), and (3) rapidly declining species (peregrine falcon, Cooper's hawk, bald eagle, and sharp-shinned hawk). The findings from this study are in agreement with the available literature and the status of the populations appears to be related to the food habits of the species.
1351192|Exponential phase division rate of Thalassiosira pseudonana Hasle and Heimdal clone 3H was studied in response to illumination intensity, day length, temperature, and nitrogen sources and concentrations. An apparatus is described for performing factorial experiments at three temperatures using day/night cyclic light of varied intensity. Population density was measured without subsampling using nephelometry calibrated with direct cell counts in parallel cultures. Cell division rates were computed by regression analysis of population densities during exponential growth. Exponential phase cell division rate was proportional to day length while division rate saturation intensity was the same with 12 or 24 hours of light per day. However, exponential phase was abbreviated under the more natural discontinuous illumination and ultimate cell yield was achieved by growth occuring during the phase of decreasing relative growth rate. We observed an optimal temperature range which always included 21 C but which varied in size with illumination intensity and with nitorgen source and concentration. Growth rate was affected by interactions among illumination intensity, temperature and nitrogen sources and concentrations. Under continuous illumination and nitrogen limitation, the diatom did not respond additively to combinations of nitrogen sources in the growth medium.
1351383|Amphipods of the family Haustoriidae are abundant in sandy beaches along the N. American Atlantic coast from the Gulf of St. Lawrence southward to Florida. The distribution of these amphipods was studied in North Carolina barrier island and lagoonal sandy beaches. Seven species were found to occur sympatrically in an ocean-inlet beach at Morehead City. Their coexistence was explained by niche diversification. The most obvious differences in ecological niches were related to intertidal zonation patterns, seasons of reproductive activity, size differences, and habitats.
1350934|The following organs from male and female specimens of Opsanus tau were weighed: heart, liver, spleen, gut, brain, eyes. Prediction equations for organ weight in terms of total body weight were derived. Best correlation was found between weight of eyes and body weight. A hyperbolic relationship between total body weight and brain as percent of body weight was postulated.
1350465|Some current research being conducted on salmonid fishes at the Hanford nuclear complex on the Columbia River is discussed. Studies of thermal effects on reproduction and behavior include a 20-year, annual census of spawning chinook salmon near reactor discharges, laboratory experiments on incubation and rearing success at elevated temperatures, studies of equilibrium loss prior to thermal death at lethal temperatures, tests of relative predation rates upon thermally shocked and normal young salmonids, and tracking sonic tagged adults to determine migration behavior near thermal outfalls.
1350691|Paired samples were collected using a lined versus unlined commercial crab dredge, a lined commercial crab dredge versus a lined commercial oyster dredge, and a lined commercial oyster dredge versus a weighted, lined oyster dredge. The densities of crabs of three size classes (1-59 mm, 60-119 mm, > 120 mm) caught in each gear were calculated and analyzed by paired block design. The lining resulted in a larger catch of the smallest size class in the crab dredge, but did not inhibit the catch of the two larger size-classes. Catches in the crab dredge exceeded those for the oyster dredge in the two smaller size-classes, but not in crabs greater than 120 mm in carapace width. The addition of 18 kg of weight to the oyster dredge had no effect upon its ability to catch crabs.
1351360|Evidence is presented that vitamin B<sub>12</sub> was not secreted by the renal tubule of the aglomerular oyster toadfish. A lack of secretion was demonstrated by measuring the total body radioactivity of fish for 38 days following the injection of Co-60 vitamin B<sub>12</sub>. Details of the methods used, which could be applied to the study of other radioactive materials, are presented with observations on the body distribution of injected vitamin B<sub>12</sub> in the oyster toadfish.
1350699|The purpose of this work was to determine if sublethal effects could be detected in two estuarine teleosts, the white perch (Morone americana) and hogchoker (Trinectes maculatus), exposed to water from Baltimore Harbor. Static bioassays were run using Patuxent River water (control), half-strength Baltimore Harbor water, and full-strength Baltimore Harbor water. Metal and pesticide levels were monitored in each species. Physiological effects of Baltimore Harbor water included changes in thrombocyte, neutrophil, and basophil levels in white perch. Biochemical effects included increased LDH activity in the serum of white perch and hogchokers when exposed to Baltimore Harbor water, decreased acetylcholinesterase activity in white perch and hogchoker brains, and decreased catalase levels of the liver of both white perch and hogchokers. Sublethal effects were noted at the longer (28 and 30 day) exposures to the Baltimore Harbor water.
1350919| A survey of mercury levels in sediments (<63 ) from Virginia's three main estuaries was conducted. Results indicated that the mercury was associated with the organic fraction of the bottom material. Statistical analyses showed no differences (5% significance level) within rivers with respect to distance from the mouth or between rivers. Comparison of the estuarine levels to those of oceanic and freshwater sediments show the oceanic to be more closely related to the estuarine with respect to mercury concentrations. 
1351203|The clay-silt fraction of two cores from the entrance to the Chesapeake Bay was analyzed for boron concentration. Paleoecologic data are used to corroborate, qualitatively, the relationship between boron concentration and salinity. The results demonstrate that the boron concentration reflects a salinity trend that could accompany the Holocene emergence and subsequent submergence postulated for the baymouth. This is interpreted as evidence supporting both the Holocene evolution of the baymouth and a relationship between the boron content of argillaceous sediments and the salinity of the depositional environment.
1350872|A total of 1,094 yearling and adult striped bass, Morone saxatilis, were collected from Albemarle Sound, North Carolina, from July 1970 through August 1971. Specimens were captured by gill nets, hook and line, trawl, pound nets, and purse seine, and ranged in size from 125 to 714 mm total length. Approximately 77 percent of the fish contained food consisting of 3,249 individual organisms. Twenty-five specific groups of food organisms were identified. These included fifteen species of fish and ten taxa of invertebrates. Fish were the main foods of striped bass and occurred in 93 percent of the stomachs containing food. Predominant species identified were Atlantic menhaden, Brevoortia tyrannus, blueback herring, Alosa aestivalis, and bay anchovy, Anchoa mitchilli. Invertebrates were of secondary importance and consisted mainly of blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, penaeid shrimp, and gammarid amphipods. Food habits varied substantially with size of fish, area, and season of collection. Cannibalism was rarely encountered. Only two yearling striped bass from over two hundred examined (1 percent) contained young Morone saxatilis. No striped bass were found in larger specimens. Striped bass are capable of consuming clupeids which are approximately 60 percent of striped bass length. Striped bass generally fed on smaller fish which averaged 20 percent of the predator's length. Size availability of forage is an important factor in Albemarle Sound. Striped bass preferred the soft-rayed species which generally occurred as juveniles in the sound.
1351116|Five adult bowfin, Amia calva Linnaeus, were gill-netted in the Gunpowder River estuary of the upper Chesapeake Bay in January, February, and March of 1972. These are the first records of this species in the area. Various counts and measurements of the specimens agreed with previous descriptions. The fish probably washed into tributaries of the Gunpowder River from stocked ponds that overflowed following extremely heavy rains on 1 August 1971. Approximately 600 to 700 adult bowfin apparently escaped. At least some of the fish were able to tolerate the estuarine conditions; however, only successful reproduction will determine whether or not the fish becomes established in the area.
1351368|A description of the tidal wave in greater Chesapeake Bay is presented through the use of charts depicting distributions of cotidal hour, range, current hour, type, sequence, and inequalities. Qualitatively, the distributions are explained in terms of the standard theory of reflected waves. Due to its small depth-to-length ratio, Chesapeake Bay accommodates slightly more than one semidiurnal tidal wave at all times. Shallow water tides are significant in the upper reaches of the Potomac and James Rivers.
1350937|Five recent distributional records of the smooth dogfish, Mustelus canis, are presented from widely separated localities in Chesapeake Bay, Maryland.
1350774|A submersible pump was used to obtain samples of net phytoplankton at specific depths from three stations positioned across the continental shelf off Chesapeake Bay. The study, conducted for nine months, yielded information on the succession and abundance of diatoms and dinoflagellates. Species of the genus Ceratium were dominant in collections made in spring and summer, while Chaetoceros, Rhizosolenia and Skeletonema were most abundant during autumn. Compared to results of quantitative studies conducted elsewhere, the density of diatoms for all seasons studied was low. A severe drought prevailed in Middle Atlantic states prior to and during the course of the study. Though the nutrient cycle is not known for these waters, nutrient levels on the shelf were probably much depressed because of decreased river discharge.
1351000|The sex and length of 5,475 oyster drills, Urosalpinx cinerea follyensis and Eupleura caudata etterae, were determined to ascertain if a significant difference exists in the mean size of males and females. The mean length of female U. cinerea was 28 mm, and of males, 24 mm; of female E. caudata, 29 mm, and of males, 25 mm. Statistical treatment of the data indicates that females of both gastropod species are significantly larger than males.
1350371|Our data indicate that cotton rats, Sigmodon hispidus, and meadow voles, Microtus pennsylvanicus, climb and take advantage of food items available above ground level. We captured cotton rats and meadow voles above ground using snap traps attached to honeysuckle, Lonicera japonica. In laboratory observations, cotton rats climbed to heights near 1 m, and food consumption and weight change showed no significant difference between groups that had to climb for food and those that did not have to climb.
1350633| Catches of hook-and-line and commercial pound-net fishermen, and sightings of schools, of little tuna in northern Chesapeake Bay, Maryland, are discussed. This species had never been recorded in the estuary before 1951 in Maryland or in Virginia before 1946. Its occurrence in the Bay is irregular, having been recorded only during early summer and in late fall. A small pound-net and haul seine fishery for it has existed in the Virginia part of the Bay for about a decade. The gross topographic osteology of a 15 pound female little tuna caught in Chesapeake Bay off Kent Island, Maryland, is illustrated for the species for the first time. The unique trelliswork of the ventral vertebral column, one of the most important characters of the family Katsuwonidae, is shown in detail. It is formed from the divided haemapophyses that encloses a long canal to carry the large ventral blood vessel. Several modifications of vertebral terminology as they apply to the trellis are advanced. The entire skeleton in the Maryland specimen and its details are typical of those recorded for the little tuna elsewhere. 
1350722|Experiments were conducted on juvenile American shad, Alosa sapidissima, to indicate tolerance to reduced oxygen, toxicity of petroleum products, and toxicity of petroleum products with accompanying low dissolved oxygen. All mortalities in reduced oxygen tests occurred at dissolved oxygen values of less than 2 ppm with lethal concentrations varying with the rate of reduction. No mortalities occurred when dissolved oxygen was maintained between 2 and 4 ppm. TL<sub> m</sub> (median tolerance limit) values were determined for gasoline, diesel fuel oil, and bunker oil for 24- and 48-hour periods. Gasoline was the most toxic, fuel oil somewhat less toxic, and bunker oil least toxic. The lethality of petroleum products to shad was found to increase when accompanied by low dissolved oxygen.
1350351|An epizootic caused by a sporozoan, Minchinia nelsoni, commonly known as "MSX", began in large plantings of oysters at the mouth of the York River, Virginia, in 1959. In 1960 all public and private beds in lower Chesapeake Bay experienced heavy losses. Commercial plantings in this area ceased in May 1960. Three slightly wet years were followed by three very dry years, which permitted the parasite, MSX, to spread farther up Chesapeake estuaries. After seven years, no important changes in patterns of timing or intensity of activity have been observed in epizootic areas. Distribution of MSX in Virginia for typical years is depicted with an attempt to categorize areas as to amount and frequency of damage to be expected. The history of the epizootic and some effects on the oyster industry are described. Prevalences of MSX and death rates over a seven-year period are compared.
1350370|An artificial key to adult skulls of marine mammals reported from Delaware, Maryland and Virginia (and also to those species which, although not yet reported, may eventually be found along these states) is presented for use not only by wildlife, marine and professional biologists, but also by those lay persons interested in identifying skulls they may find on the beaches of this region.
1350441|Celebration of the bicentennial of the birth of James Smithson, in 1965, disclosed the existence of two partial wolf skulls among Indian artifacts in a Swedish museum. These fragmentary skulls, here described, are thought to represent the earliest known preserved specimens of American wolves, except for archeological material.
1351343| Some of the effects of low temperature, low salinity, prey size, and predator source on the predatory activity of Stylochus ellipticus on oysters were investigated in the laboratory. Lowering temperatures below 10 C resulted in a progressive decrease in predation. Salinities as low as 5 , approximately the lower limit of tolerability of the oysters, appeared to give no lasting decrease in predation. As an oyster predator, S. ellipticus primarily attacked small individuals but large worms (20 mm long) killed oysters as long as 61 mm. S. ellipticus from seven localities were observed in the laboratory for differences in predatory activity on oysters and barnacles. An obvious preference for one or the other prey species was demonstrated by worms from each locality. Worms from higher salinities preferred barnacles, whereas those from lower salinities preferred oysters. Prey preference might be correlated with a comparatively greater abundance of barnacles in higher salinities and oysters in lower salinities. This relationship could be consistent with the hypothesis of "ingestive conditioning," which states that a predator develops a tendency to respond more readily to effluents from a given invertebrate prey species after ingestion of living tissues of that species. 
1351344|In a survey of macroscopic, benthic, marine algae, the known distributions of Desmotrichum undulatum, Dictyosiphon foeniculaceus, Striaria attenuata, and Callithamnion roseum along the Atlantic Coast of North America have been extended southward to Accomack County, Va. In the same region of this survey, there is a markedly seasonal alternation of species. The winter flora is composed predominantly of members in the division Phaeophyta and the summer flora is composed of a majority of species in the division Rhodophyta.
1350340|The growth indices of the ribbed mussel Modiolus demissus from bridge pilings and marsh mud at Lewes, Delaware, are investigated. The ratio of shell height to shell length of marsh mussels is different from that of bridge mussels, but the same as that of Georgia marsh mussels. Excellent allometric relationships exist between the shell height of the mussel and all of its weights (total live, total dry, dry shell, live meat, and dry meat). The allometric relationships are the same for marsh and bridge mussels and have value as prediction equations. There is no relationship between the intertidal height and the shell-weight/meat-weight ratio.
1351284|Thirty-four species of marine algae were collected from the north jetty at Ocean City, Maryland, during July and August, 1966: 6 Cyanophyta, 16 Rhodophyta, 4 Phaeophyta and 8 Chlorophyta. Of these 8 species (about 25%) were at their southern known limit either during summer (Petalonia fascia, Porphyra leucosticta, Scytosiphon lomentaria and Porphyra umbilicalis) or the year around (Nemalion multifidum, Callithamnion baileyi, Polysiphonia urceolata and P. novae-angliae). Consequently, Ocean City, Maryland, is a new southern boundary for some marine algae having their northern limits north of Cape Cod.
1350925|Field tests were conducted during the spring of 1959 to compare the differences in the catches of soft-rayed fishes by synthetic (nylon) fiber and natural (linen) fiber gillnets. Test nets were matched as closely as possible from commercial net sources and each section was located randomly as to sequence of mesh size and material. American shad (Alosa sapidissima), glut herring (Alosa aestivalis), and alewife herring (Alosa pseudoharengus) were the only species caught in sufficient numbers for comparisons between nets of different fibers. Analysis of the catches of American shad revealed differences in the numbers, length-frequency and length-weight of fish from nylon and linen gillnets. Nylon anchor gillnets caught twice as many American shad as were caught in linen anchor gillnets of the same length and mesh sizes. Also, male American shad taken from nylon nets were heavier than those taken from linen nets. Although statistical comparisons were not possible with the small number of American shad caught in drift gillnets nor with the small number of herring caught in anchor gillnets, the greater numbers of fish were taken in nylon nets.
1350413|Stomach contents of 262 bluefish, Pomatomus saltatrix, were examined to determine whether this species is predatory on young Atlantic menhaden, Brevoortia tyrannus. Food occurred in 209 stomachs, of which 90 per cent contained fish and 14 per cent contained invertebrates. Silversides ranked first both in frequency of occurrence (46 stomachs) and in the number consumed (105). Menhaden occurred in 39 stomachs (19 per cent of the stomachs which contained food), and a total of 46 menhaden had been consumed for an average of 0.2 per bluefish examined.
1351145|This paper reports an 11-month study of physical and chemical characteristics of a 100-acre strip mine pond being used for fish production. Several species of warm and cold water game fish have been stocked in the lake. The more important findings included pH values ranging from 5.5 to 6.8, with a net alkalinity below 20 ppm and total iron ranging from 0.16 to 11.20 ppm.
1351386|Noncommercial crabs of the genus Callinectes were collected in the St. Johns River, Florida, and in the ocean near the river mouth from 1961 to 1963. They were abundant offshore, and, from April to October, were present in the lower 25 miles of the river system. Juveniles 4 to 30 mm wide were found in certain tributaries that also serve as nursery areas for the closely related blue crab, Callinectes sapidus. They occurred at salinities of less than 1%. Females spawned in the ocean from March to July and again in October and November.
1351385|The occurrence of Haemoproteus in pigeons throughout the world and in mourning doves in the United States is reviewed. Haemoproteus has previously been reported only once from pigeons in Maryland. During this study it was found in all of 18 pigeons from one area but in none of 12 from an adjacent area. No infections were found in 90 Maryland mourning doves. All of the 10 mourning doves from Florida were infected whereas 60 nestlings from Texas and Mississippi had no parasites. None was found in 358 nestling white-winged doves from Texas.
1351175|Chesapeake Bay specimens of Acartia, identified by C. B. Wilson as A. clausii and A. longiremis, were re-examined. All the specimens identified as A. longiremis and most of those labelled A. clausii were A. tonsa. A. clausii was present only in two winter samples. The postulated change in the composition of species of Acartia in the Bay can no longer be supported, since it arose from Wilson's misidentifications.
1350486|Estimates of annual primary production and standing crops based on chlorophyll a were made in the northern half of Chesapeake Bay over a 160 km section. Both the chlorophyll a concentrations and incubator productivity were maximum during the warmer season, especially in the oligohaline area. The higher salinity waters usually showed lower values of both parameters, except during the winter when values were fairly uniform over the entire study area. Chlorophyll a values ranged from 1 to 80 mg m<sup>-3</sup> up-bay at Station I-B, and 1 to 25 mg m<sup>-3</sup> down-bay at Station XI. Incubator photosynthesis ranged from 2 to 200 mg C m<sup>-3</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup> up-bay and 2 to 40 mg C m<sup>-3</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup> down-bay. Chlorophyll a concentrations and incubator productivity were usually low at the tidal freshwater station, rapidly increased in the oligohaline area and tended to decrease with increasing salinity. The seasonal pattern was characterized by one general maximum during the warm months with little tendency for a spring bloom and, occasionally, some stations showed a late fall pulse in standing crop and photosynthesis. Photosynthetic activity per unit chlorophyll a at the down-bay stations ranged from 1.3 to 10.3 mg C hr<sup>-1</sup> mg Chl a<sup>-1</sup> and the seasonal average was 3.9. The assimilation numbers at the up-bay stations ranged from <latex>$<1\ \text{to}\ 11.9\ {\rm mg}\ {\rm C}\ {\rm hr}^{-1}\ ({\rm mg}\ {\rm Chl}\ a^{-1}$</latex> and averaged 3.3 and 1.1 during the warm and cold periods, respectively. Computed values of integral gross photosynthesis averaged about 0.2 g C m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> at the up-bay stations and approximately 1.0 g C m<sup>-2</sup> day<sup>-1</sup> at the down-bay stations over the period of November, 1966 to October, 1967. Turbidity of the waters appeared to have a controlling influence on primary production in the water column. However, photosynthetic activity was highest in turbid up-bay water on a volume basis.
1350729| A new record of a pugheaded striped bass, Roccus saxatilis, weighing 16 pounds, is described and illustrated. It was taken by an angler off Nantucket, and resisted capture as a normal fish. It seemed in good condition except for the deformity, and its stomach contained sea herring. 
1350686|In response to seasonal changes or unknown variables in laboratory cultivation, zoids of S. unicornis floridana undergo regressive changes characterized by the dedifferentiation of polypides and the redistribution of zoidal materials within and between zoids. Concomitant with regressive changes within zoids, cell masses composed mainly of orange pigmented vesicular coelomocytes accumulate within cystids. These cell masses remain viable for a year or more and are capable of developing into pseudoancestrulae for new primogenial zoid layers. In some colonies these cell masses are concentrated within the cystids of a few zoids, perhaps as protection against predation or mechanical damage. Colonies which have undergone zoidal regression, and accumulated these cell masses within their cystids are better considered dormant than moribund, and zoid regression may be an adaptive mechanism insuring the life of the colony during periods of environmental stress.
1351085|Food habits and seasonal abundance of the American eel, Anguilla rostrata (Lesueur), were studied from the brackish water regions of three Virginia rivers. Abundance in trawl surveys was related to water temperatures with fewer eels being caught during the colder months. Polychaetes, crustaceans and bivalves were the most important dietary items of A. rostrata in brackish water. There was much predation on the commercially important species Mya arenaria and Callinectes sapidus.
1351319|Taxonomically important aspects of the anatomy of the common eolid nudibranch, Cratena pilata, are presented. The uniserate radula possesses a prominent central cusp and 4 to 7 lateral cusps. Up to 60% of radular teeth may be asymmetric. The triangular, slightly emarginate jaws are described and figured. The genitalia are of the facelinid type and are described. The penis is unarmed. On the basis of anatomy, this species is a member of the Favorinidae (Favorininae). Proper generic placement is Cratena Bergh, 1864, a favorinid; not Cratena Bergh (1885), a cuthonid.
1350912|The two subspecies considered in this study, E. o. olmstedi and E. o. atromaculatum, have been separated previously by characters of squamation and lateral-line scale counts. Extensive collecting and an examination of museum collections pointed out difficulties in assigning subspecific names to some populations of E. olmstedi in southeastern Virginia. This study is intended to indicate some of the practical and theoretical taxonomic problems encountered.
1350344|Rates of feeding by the ctenophore Mnemiopsis leidyi were measured in order to evaluate the importance of predation by ctenophores on populations of zooplankton. Copepods, mostly Acartia tonsa, and ctenophores from the Patuxent River and the harbor at Solomons, Maryland, were used. Rates of feeding were correlated with the product of the concentration of copepods in the experimental containers and the size of the ctenophores. A prediction equation, based on this relationship, was used to estimate the rates of feeding by the population of ctenophores in the Patuxent River. According to the predicted value, ctenophores eat 31% of the population of A. tonsa daily in the Patuxent River. This value accounts for 52% of the daily summer mortality among A. tonsa.
1351034|The life history of the pearl dace, Semotilus margarita (Cope), was studied in Hamilton Run, a tributary to Antietam Creek, Washington County, Maryland, from August 1970 to July 1971. The length-weight relationship yielded the equation, W=0.0000117 L<sup>3.251</sup>. The sex ratio of all the fish collected over one year was 2.00:1.00 (male:female), however, the sex ratio changed monthly. The females lived to age IV, whereas the males lived to age III. There was no difference in growth rate in length between males and females in age 0 fish, but, the females grew faster than the males in age I fish. Both males and females reached sexual maturity at the end of age I. The maturation process of gonads began in July and a maximum was reached in mid-April. Spawning occurred from late April to early June. The relationship between the number of eggs in the right ovary and standard length yielded the equation, F=0.68 L<sup>2.59</sup>.
1350538|A second survey of populations of soft-shelled clams, Mya arenaria, in Somerset County, Maryland, was made during 25 August to 2 September 1959. Sixty-five areas were sampled by means of a commercial hydraulic clam dredge. Data for market and submarket clams is given in terms of bushels per acre in each area sampled. Analysis of results did not reveal any commercial quantities of clams. Factors limiting the population of soft-shelled clams in this area are not definitely known.
1351285|Volume distribution curves were used to compare a modern (Balanus eburneus) and a fossil (Balanus concavus) barnacle population. The curve for the fossil population shows the selectivity of fossil processes, evidenced by a deficiency of smaller (young) members.
1350756|Eurasian water milfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum L.) which showed symptoms of "Lake Venice disease" was studied under laboratory conditions. In tanks containing distilled water, diseased plants produced only disease-free tissue. We were unable to produce symptoms of "Lake Venice disease" either by direct inoculation of healthy plants with extracts from diseased plants or by growing diseased and healthy plants in the same tank grown with Gro-Lux illumination. However, plants grown under low light intensity (indirect sunlight) and inoculated with extracts from diseased tissue produced symptoms resembling those of "Lake Venice disease." "Lake Venice disease" occurs on milfoil plants growing under stress conditions such as low light intensity, which increases the susceptibility of the plant to attack by microorganisms.
1350394| Larvae of the stone crab, Menippe mercenaria Say, were reared from egg to a true crab stage in 27 days on a diet of Artemia nauplii. They were successfully cultured in swarms and placed in small compartments where their individual development was studied. Six zoeal stages were found and described, although only five are believed to occur normally in nature. One molt per zoeal stage was noted, and from 3 to 6 days were spent in each stage. Pre-zoeae were observed but these did not molt into a first stage. Such diagnostic characters as size and shape of antennae, and segment and seta numbers of endopodites, maxillules, maxillae and second maxillipeds, were constant in all zoeal stages. Telson appearance and chromatophore occurrence may also be helpful in identification. Comparisons were also made between known xanthid zoeae and Menippe zoeae. Experiments on salinity and temperature tolerance of the zoeae indicate that in a temperature range of 23 to 25C, zoeae may not be able to survive in salinities of 27 or lower. 
1350826|Distribution of the genus Ceratium in lower Chesapeake Bay and adjacent offshore waters of the Atlantic Ocean is described. Of 13 species listed, four (C. lineatum, C. trichoceros, C. massiliense, and C. arcticum) have not been previously recorded in the lower bay. Most species represent warm-temperate or tropical forms which culminate in an autumn community. As a whole the genus becomes progressively more important proceeding offshore from upper estuarine conditions. Temperature and salinity ranges observed for each species are reported.
1351371|Nine species of monogenetic trematodes from Chesapeake Bay fishes are reported. Four previously described species that are studied comparatively, redescribed, and discussed are: Microcotyle poronoti MacCallum, M. peprili Pearse, M. pomatomi Goto, and Thoracocotyle crocea MacCallum. This constitutes a new locality record for all species.
1350561|Water, oyster, and mud samples obtained from the North, South, and Central sections of Hall's Bar, Station Number 17 in Tangier Sound off the shore of Deal Island, Maryland, were examined for bacterial population, coliforms, and E. coli during August through October, 1959. The results indicate low plate counts, very low coliform values and Negative E. coli. In all sections, the mud samples showed a higher plate count than the water and oyster samples. The mean plate counts per gram of oyster and per gram of mud for all sections were 600 and 3,430, respectively. All sections complied with water coliform criteria recommended for approved growing areas.
1350397|Foods tested were found inadequate for rearing the zoeae of the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus. Microorganisms associated with these foods increased larval mortality. This was controlled to some extent by addition of Terramycin HCl to rearing bowls. Large differences in survival were found between zoeae from different parents hatched and reared under identical conditions.
1350537|Oyster-shell plantings were made on formerly productive bottom to determine the practicability of securing an oyster set in this area and to test the hypothesis that the availability of game fish could be improved by artificially modifying the habitat in Chincoteague Bay, Maryland. Fish populations were trapped over planted and unplanted control areas with the same effort from August to November in 1958 and 1959. Fourteen species of saltwater fish were recorded in the planted and control areas, of which the black sea bass, Centropristes striatus, was the dominant species. The planted areas yielded about three times as many fish as the controls during the two years. Black sea bass numbers were much greater on planted areas than on control areas. The planted area also produced more species than the unplanted area. More fish were caught over both planted and control bottoms during 1959 than in 1958, due partially to improved trap design. There is some evidence of improvement in the availability of fish over a planted area that has aged for a year. It is concluded that oyster-shell plantings significantly concentrated and increased numbers of fish over restricted areas, when compared to unplanted areas.
1351317| Median particle size of suspended sediment was calculated from measurements of the attenuation coefficient () and weight of suspended sediment. The median "optical" grainsize obtained for 235 samples from upper Chesapeake Bay was 1.3. There was no discernible seasonal or geographic variation in median particle size. The "optical" diameter measured here underestimates the actual median particle diameter by about 30%. 
1351208| An intensive investigation was made of the seston population of the upper Chesapeake Bay from 1 November 1965 through 30 March 1967. During the period of high spring runoff the seston population of the upper Bay was closely linked to the major source of new sediment, the Susquehanna River. Throughout the remainder of the year however, the concentrations of seston were greater within the Bay north of 39 12 N (Tolchester) than in the mouth of the Susquehanna River or farther seaward in the estuary, and the concentrations of seston were determined primarily by resuspension and by the net nontidal estuarine circulation which traps much of the seston within this segment of the Bay. Seaward of 39 12 N the concentrations of seston decreased quite sharply throughout the year. 
1350999|The parasitic copepod, Argulus laticauda, was found to exhibit a seasonal and body attachment site preference on the oyster toadfish, Opsanus tau, captured at Solomons, Maryland. Comments are presented on the number of fish parasitized, size, distribution and abundance of the parasites, and associated ecological conditions during the period June 26-October 12, 1961.
1350432|We determined stomach contents of 1,070 adult striped bass from the Roanoke River, North Carolina, during their upstream migration. Of these, 259 were taken downstream by gill nets in April in the Williamston area, some 93 miles below the major spawning ground. Nearly half (46.3%) of the stomachs contained food, which consisted solely of blueback herring, Alosa aestivalis, or alewife, A. pseudoharengus, or both. All striped bass examined from the downstream station were in a prespawning stage. The remaining 811 specimens came upriver in May from the Weldon area, the major spawning site of striped bass in the Roanoke River. Here, fish caught by hook and line revealed that 4 out of 20 (20.0%) stomachs of females and 10 out of 69 (14.5%) stomachs of males contained food. These fish were in a prespawning or spent stage. Drift nets caught 34 females, which had empty stomachs, and 433 males, of which 11 (2.3%) had food. Of the females, 32 were in a spawning and 2 were in a prespawning stage. Of the males, all but 22 were in a spawning or spent stage. Food items in order of importance were: golden shiner (Notemigonus crysoleucas), unidentified minnows, blueback herring, and gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum). Fight net catches accounted for 29 females and 226 males; all had empty stomachs, and all were in a spawning or spent stage. Thus, we conclude that fasting occurs for only a brief period just before and during the act of spawning.
1350866| A simple, inexpensive 2 Hand Corer has been developed for efficiently sampling most types of shallow water sediments. The corer consists of a Lexan plastic core tube, 1--check valve unit, and polyvinyl chloride tube handle. The 2 Hand Corer consistently collected higher mean densities of organisms than did the Mackin Corer, resulting in more precise estimates of the mean densities of the collected taxa. Undisturbed sediment samples for pesticide, oil and grease, and heavy metals analysis also were collected. 
1351380|A total of 169 bacterial cultures were isolated from the internal organs of healthy white perch (Roccus americanus), and were characterized by the method of numerical taxonomy. These cultures sorted into 7 major groups and were identified as representing Bacillus, Achromobacter, Pseudomonas, Aeromonas, Enterobacter, and Micrococcus. The pasteurella-like bacteria implicated in the 1963 massive fish kill were included in the analysis. None of the cultures representing the normal flora of white perch showed any significant similarity with these organisms. The pasteurella-like bacteria were found capable of causing infection and death when inoculated intra-peritoneally in white perch. An inoculum size of approximately 10<sup>7</sup> cells was required to kill 50% of the inoculated hosts. Several other bacterial species isolated from healthy white perch also caused infection and death when a similarly large inoculum was used.
1351021|We have designed and built an apparatus for maintaining and renewing uniform suspensions of fine-grained sediment for laboratory experiments on the effects of suspended sediment on organisms. The suspensions are maintained with vertically reciprocating perforated plates driven by gearmotors. Suspensions with concentrations of up to 500 mg/liter were maintained to within about 15% of their mean concentration for periods of 5 to 7 days. The suspensions were completely replaced every 24 hours by periodic additions. The particles had a mass-weighted mean settling velocity of about 5 10<sup>-3</sup> cm/sec.
1350827|The nesting ecology and reproductive rate of the polygynous red-winged blackbird, Agelaius phoeniceus, were studied in the tidal marshes of Maryland during the period of 1958 through 1961. Sixteen nesting colonies were located in six major marsh communities of the Eastern Shore and were visited approximately twice a week from late April to mid-August. The average clutch size for 537 clutches was 3.3 eggs, with a range of 2 to 5 eggs. The ratio of territorial males to nesting females was 1:1.9. There was direct evidence of double broods by four females. The average number of young produced was 4.2 per breeding female or 8.1 per breeding male. Nesting success for the total of 675 active nests was 57%, with a range from 38% to 69% in the colonies. Robust plants that held constant form throughout the nesting season supported 95% of the nests, and the success of these nests was 58%; in contrast, non-robust plants supported only 5% of the nests, and success of this group of nests was only 26%. Nesting success varied with height from ground: 45% for nests less than 2 feet from the ground, 55% for those 2 to 4 feet, and 62% for those more than 4 feet. Histories of 749 nests were summarized by stages: 749 newly built, 675 with eggs, 424 with nestlings, and 388 with fledging young.
1350896|Destruction of Zostera beds in the York River. Virginia, is attributed to the digging activities of the cownose ray, Rhinoptera bonasus. The physically stable Zostera habitat with high faunal diversity and density was replaced by an unstable sand habitat with low faunal diversity and density.
1350704|Experiments were conducted to determine the effects of various factors on growth by budding of Aurelia aurita scyphistomae populations. Population growth appears to fit a sigmoid model and is reduced in high-density cultures, apparently by some soluble inhibitor of budding produced by the presence of polyps. Low temperature and starvation further inhibit the growth of polyp populations.
1350434| Intraperitoneal injection of mammalian adrenocorticotrophic hormone at 2 IU and 4 IU per day for seven days was followed by hyperglycemia and adrenal growth in goldfish. Normal blood sugar values, at 16-20C, were about 30 mg% by both Folin and Glucostat methods. Mean values after treatment approached 70 mg%. Hypertrophy and hyperplasia of interrenal tissue were seen in most treated fish. Nuclear pycnosis and cell shrinkage were infrequent. Control and experimental populations showed no differences in frequency of nucleolar extrusion. 
1350914|The fecundity of 114 female yellow perch was studied during the 1969 spawning run (20 through 25 March) in the Patuxent River, Maryland. The fecundity was proportional to the total weight and gutted weight respectively as expressed by the regression equations Y = 150.55730 X - 1,424.0878 (r = 0.88) for the former, and Y = 217.65656 X - 2,387.9915 (r = 0.87) for the latter, (Y, fecundity; X, either total weight or gutted weight). It was nearly proportional to the quadruplicate of fork length as expressed by the regression equation, log Y = 3.7179 log X - 1.50917 (r = 0.90). This quadruplicate phenomenon was due in part to the heavier proportionate increase in body weight and the visceral space available for egg development as the fish length increased.
1350451|A typical cooling water system for a steam plant is described, along with possible variations in intake and discharge designs. Biological implications are discussed in view of known physical parameters at operating power plants. Some studies at thermal power plants operated by Pacific Gas and Electric Company in California are reviewed. The P G and E approach to nuclear thermal plant siting in California consists of consultation and agreements with state regulatory and resource agencies, and with conservation groups, before a site is developed. Predictions of the impact of the plant on the ecosystem are made by ecological studies combined with temperature predictions.
1350770|The occurrence of planktonic larvae of the polychaete Polydora ligni Webster was followed for a period of 12 weeks in 1970. Larvae first appeared on March 11 and weekly samples generally showed an increase in mean length throughout the sampling period. Larval length ranged from 0.19 mm to 1.15 mm. An initial settlement of metamorphosed larvae with a mean length of 1.25 mm occurred on test panels on April 14. The number of setigers was shown to vary directly with larval length. Larvae reared in the laboratory at 21 C required 19 to 28 days to develop fully, while larvae reared at 10 C required 60 to 69 days.
1350362|During the course of faunistic investigations of estuarine Amphipoda in North Carolina (Fox and Bynum, 1975), several undescribed species have been found. Six of these, in the genera Gammarus, Maera, Stenothoe, Lembos and Microdeutopus, are described here. Atylus sp. cf. minikoi is figured to facilitate future work on this group. Figures of the male of Stenothoe minuta Holmes, 1905 are given because none have been published previously. Local specimens of Protohaustorius Bousfield, 1965, which are in certain respects intermediate between P. wigleyi Bousfield, 1965 and P. deichmannae Bousfield, 1965, are figured partially and their points of difference discussed. Corophium aquafuscum Heard and Sikora, 1972 is reported for the first time from North Carolina.
1351008| Data obtained near Cape Lookout, North Carolina, during 1965 to 1968 on standing crop, growth rate, and longevity of above ground portions of needlerush, Juncus roemerianus, were synthesized into a three-compartment linear mathematical model. Analysis of field observations yielded average standing crops for live, dying, and dead Juncus of 344, 504, and 1,604 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup> respectively, and an annual production of 754 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup>. The model, defined by equations below, duplicated the average standing crops and annual production and yielded seasonal cycles in the standing crops of the three compartments which explained much of the variation observed in these during the field work. TMP(air temperature in<sup></sup> C)=16.9+9.0 sine(2  t) d(live)/ dt=2.3474 (1.000+0.745 sine(2  ( t+0.104))) X<sub>1</sub>-2.3395 (1.0+0.8 sine(2  ( t+0.50))) X<sub>1</sub> d(dying)/ dt=2.3395 (1.0+0.8 sine(2  ( t+0.50))) X<sub>1</sub>-1.640 (1.0+sine(2  ( t+0.25))) X<sub>2</sub> d(dead)/ dt=1.640 (1.0+sine(2  ( t+0.25))) X<sub>2</sub>-0.4853 2.8<sup>( TMP-18.9)/10.0</sup>t is time in years measured from April 30; 1 year equals 2 radians. Initial values for the three compartments on May 1 are 191, 583, and 1,690 g m<sup>-2</sup> respectively. 
1351252| Upper lethal temperatures ( LC<sub>50</sub>,12 hr) for two size groups (194 and 255 mm mean length) of white catfish acclimated to 20 C were 31.0 C for the smaller fish and 29.2 C for the larger fish. The lethal salinity tolerance ( LC<sub>50</sub>,60 hr) of this predominantly freshwater fish was 14. Preliminary data indicate that fish lost 0.4% of their weight per hour in 17 brackish water. 
1350836|In laboratory cultures of setting oyster larvae, Crassostrea virginica, it was noted that few of many exposed cultch shells collected most of the set. Also, setting was very sporadic with respect to time. Several hypotheses were tested to explain such observations. Individual cultch shells were not differentially attractive to setting larvae. However, cultch shells containing 24-hour-old spat or 2-month-old spat attracted more set than unspatted control shells in the same culture and stimulated more set than that received in separate control cultures. Undersides of bottom-most layers of shells attracted more set than the higher layers of shells in laboratory cultures. Two-month-old spat, inside larval-proof plankton mesh bags, stimulated set on shells outside the bags indicating that a water-borne pheromone may be the stimulating agent. These findings confirm the contention of Crisp (1967) that gregarious setting occurs in C. virginica.
1350606| Vascular plant zonation and successional stages were studied in two brackish marshes of Calvert County, Maryland. One marsh is mature and stable, while the other is undergoing rapid succession from a former lake bottom. Soil depth, water salinity, and tidal heights were measured. Transect surveys show a general zonation of Spartina alterniflora  Scripus olneyi upland vegetation in the stable marsh, and a Spartina alterniflora  Scripus robustus  Typha angustifolia  upland vegetation succession in the developing marsh. Elevation of the marsh relative to mean high water is the most obvious factor influencing the plant distribution. 
1350782|Continuous collections of larval fishes were made during a 24-hour period from a bridge platform over the center of a channel in the lower Newport River estuary. Frequencies of the three most abundant species, Leiostomus xanthurus, Brevoortia tyrannus, and Lagodon rhomboides were examined in an analysis of variance to show the effects and interactions of species, depth, light and tide. Generally, all three species were more abundant at night. Both illumination and tidal velocity affected the number of larvae taken.
1350689|This paper reports on 30 years of daily temperature and salinity records of Patuxent River surface water at Solomons, Maryland. The 30-yr average value, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, and coefficient of variation for each calendar day were calculated from the records of daily noontime observations. A fourth degree polynomial regression can be used to predict the water temperature (C) for any given day (d) of the year where February 1 is counted as day 32: C = 11 - 0.417d + 0.00624 d<sup>2</sup>-0.0000245 d<sup>3</sup>+0.0000000285 d<sup>4</sup>. The 'warm-up' period lasts 6 months from 1 February to 1 August; temperature ranges from 2.4 C to 27.5 C with standard deviations of 0.9 to 2.1 C. The 'cool-down' period is completed 6 months later. The lowest reading (-0.8 C) occurred on February 10 and 11 while the highest (30 C) occurred July 31, August 1 and 3. There was no correlation between salinity and temperature. The highest mean salinity (16.0 to 16.8 ppt) occurred during October 17 to December 16, with November 19 and 20 having the highest value. The lowest mean salinity (10.2-10.9 ppt) occurred during April 15 to June 10, with lowest value of 10.2 ppt on April 27, 30, and May 1. There were 187 days between dates of mean highest and mean lowest salinity. The lowest individual salinity recorded was 5.4 ppt on June 7, and the highest was 20.9 ppt on December 12. Coincidently, 188 days separate these day-of-the-year occurrences.
1350957|Sediment samples obtained from eight drill cores (surface to -300 ft.) taken at the site of the new Chesapeake Bay bridge near Annapolis, were analyzed for elemental and mineralogical composition. Optical emission spectrography, X-ray spectrometry, and other techniques were utilized to obtain data on the concentration and distribution of the following elements: Si, Al, Na, K, Ca, Mg, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Pb, C, H, N and S. These data and the associated mineralogical information indicate heavy metal-clay mineral associations. Metals of environmental interest, e. g., lead (60 to < 1 ppm), copper (54 to < 10 ppm), cobalt (355 to 16 ppm), nickel (58 to 5 ppm), and vanadium (135 to 40 ppm), are enriched at the surface relative to the deeper sediments. Most of the heavy metals are 2-3 times less concentrated in these sediments than in the sediments of Baltimore Harbor, long a site of active metal loading.
1351143| Monthly phytoplankton samples were taken in the lower Cape Fear River estuary at three stations from the estuary mouth to 8 km upriver. Surface salinity ranged from 16 to 35  near the estuary mouth and from 2 to 26  8 km upriver, and surface water temperatures ranged from 4.5 C in January to 30.0 C in July. A total of 203 species were observed in the estuary, consisting of 134 diatoms, 25 chlorophytes, 15 dinoflagellates, 9 cryptomonads, 9 cyanophytes, 3 chrysophytes, 3 xanthophytes, 2 haptophytes, 2 loricate flagellates, and 1 euglenoid flagellate. The phytoplankton was dominated by the diatom Skeletonema costatum, which averaged 28.7% of the total cell numbers through the year. Skeletonema costatum, and five other species consisting of 2 diatoms, 1 cryptomonad, 1 dinoflagellate, and 1 loricate flagellate, were the major phytoplankters. Average cell numbers in the estuary were 1.69 10<sup>6</sup> cells/liter, and the maximum and minimum were 7.3 10<sup>6</sup> and 0.25 10<sup>6</sup> cells/liter. The major population bloom was in May and June in 1969 and appeared to start in February in 1970. Phytoplankton species diversity was calculated with the Shannon formula and showed greater average diversity at the mouth of the estuary. 
1350876|While conducting juvenile Atlantic and Gulf menhaden (Brevoortia tyrannus and B. patronus) abundance surveys and tagging studies in estuaries from Brownsville, Texas to Barnstable Harbor, Mass. in 1971, anomalous menhaden and other species were collected. A total of nine new and five previously reported anomalies for menhaden and six new anomalies for five other species are reported. The five species were spot, Leiostomus xanthurus; white mullet, Mugil curema; Atlantic silverside, Menidia menidia; Atlantic needlefish, Strongylura marina and longnose gar, Lepisosteus osseus.
1350559|The meat volume-shell length regressions and the relationship of the meat volume to shell length in the formula, K=meat volume/shell length<sup> n</sup>, were used to compare the condition of quahogs, Mercenaria mercenaria, from polluted and unpolluted waters in Point Judith Pond, Rhode Island. Quahogs were collected in November, 1961 from adjacent waters on each side of the pollution line set by the state and from the cleaner waters near the mouth of the estuary. Interpretations based on the comparison of condition (K) did not agree with those based on the comparison of the meat volume-shell length relationships. Sampling variation, inherent in the estimation of n, probably resulted in unrepresentative K values. Conclusions as to the relative condition of quahogs were based on the comparison of the meat volume-shell length relationships by covariance. These analyses suggest that, if environmental conditions, including indirect effects of pollution, are beneficial to quahogs, the gain in meat volume is not impressive. The adjusted mean meat volume of quahogs sampled from cleaner waters of the estuary was only 1.19 cm<sup>3</sup>, less than that of quahogs from the area adjacent to but outside the portion of the estuary classed as polluted. There was little difference between quahogs from the harvested area below the pollution line and those from adjacent locations upestuary.
1351109|Seven species of mysid shrimps taken in semiquantitative, nocturnal, surface plankton samples showed variable levels of abundance and frequency of occurrence from stations near the sea to the head of estuaries in North Carolina. Bowmaniella dissimilis occurred mainly in samples from stations near the sea in every month of the year, and reached its greatest abundance from spring through autumn coincident with its breeding season. B. johnsoni was taken at stations near the sea only twice. Mysidopsis bigelowi, the second most abundant species, occurred in samples from every station, and was in breeding condition throughout the estuaries from late winter to mid-autumn. Metamysidopsis mexicana occurred sporadically in samples from 3 stations near inlets, was in breeding condition throughout the year, but appeared to be most abundant in summer and fall. Promysis atlantica appeared infrequently at stations near inlets in all months except Feb. and Mar., usually in breeding condition. Neomysis americana was the most abundant species, reaching its greatest concentration in samples from middle to upper estuarine stations where spawners were almost always present. Size differentials suggested more than a single generation per year. The species showed no evidence of nocturnal stratification in the shallow 6-m deep estuarine water. Heteromysis formosa occurred sporadically from May to Dec.
1351342| The dominant food items in striped bass, Morone saxatilis (Walbaum), less than 70 mm in fork length were mysids in the York River samples and insects in those from the James River. Stomach contents from larger striped bass were dominated by fish (York River) and decapod shrimp (James River). The primary physical difference between collecting sites in these two rivers was salinity. Most James River collections were taken from salinities of less than 5 , whereas the majority of York River stations exceeded 10 . The food of Rappahannock River striped bass was more diverse than that of York and James populations, containing items in common with both. Salinities at Rappahannock stations ranged from 1.5 to 14.5 . 
1351280|Twelve sediment cores from the lower Rappahannock estuary in Virginia were analyzed for boron concentration, clay-silt ratio, and percent organic carbon. Clay-silt ratios and percent organic carbon, along with distance upstream in nautical miles and average water salinity, were used as independent variables in linear regression plots with boron concentration as the dependent variable. The results show a lack of correlation between boron concentration and either the clay-silt ratio or the percent organic carbon; however, both a negative correlation with distance upstream and positive correlation with salinity appear to be real. This is taken as evidence supporting the theory of boron incorporation in fine-grained sediments in amounts proportional to the salinity of the depositional environment.
1350952|For an estuarine population of the ctenophore Mnemiopsis leidyi (A. Agassiz), density of small individuals, indicative of recent spawning, and total biomass were measured on 32 dates over 20 months. These observations were related to the environmental parameters of temperature, salinity, daylight, and presence of a predator. M. leidyi was present on all sampling dates, biomass was greatest in spring and fall, and ranged from 0.2 to 65 ml/ m<sup>3</sup>. Occurrence of the medusae of Chrysaora quinquecirrha corresponded with a sharp reduction in ctenophore biomass in the spring, and C. quinquecirrha was shown to be a voracious feeder on M. leidyi. The number of small individuals exceeded 2/ m<sup>3</sup> on 17 of 32 sampling dates and peaked at approximately the same time as total biomass. M. leidyi occurred at salinities from 3.4 to 20 ppt (the highest salinity sampled), and the salinity where the greatest total biomass and the greatest number of small individuals occurred was lower in summer than winter. On calm days all sizes of M. leidyi were most abundant at the surface, large individuals showed no depth preference at night, and small individuals showed a weak affinity for the bottom during the day and a strong affinity for the bottom at night. Adaptations that probably contribute to the success of M. leidyi in an estuary are: 1) broad temperature and salinity tolerances permit the species to inhabit the estuary year around and exploit the low salinity areas inhospitable to most marine and freshwater animals; 2) ability to spawn over a wide range of temperature and salinity enables the species to exploit favorable conditions when they arise without having to depend on immigration to repopulate an area; 3) preference of small individuals for the bottom keeps them from being flushed out of the estuary; and 4) sounding by all sizes in rough seas helps them to escape the destructive effect of wave turbulence.
1351132|Based on histological similarity between the fourth fold and other sections of the mantle edge of Mercenaria mercenaria and on gross observations, it is determined that the fourth fold probably arises in one of three ways: (a) from a split in the typical inner muscular fold, (b) as a folding-over of the inner surface of the mantle margin, or (c) from a combination of the inner surface of the mantle margin and the inner surface of the third mantle fold. It is believed that the third alternative is the most probable.
1351154|During 1959-61, 8,973 striped bass, Roccus saxatilis (Walbaum), were tagged and released in the Potomac River, Maryland. Of the 3,344 (37.3%) recaptured, 98.0% were taken in the Maryland part of Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries, 0.5% were recovered in the Virginia part of Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries, and 1.5% were taken outside Chesapeake Bay along the Atlantic coast from Delaware to Nova Scotia. In the wintering season (November-March), the tagged fish were concentrated in the lower river and were very active, traveling several miles a day. In the spawning season (April-June), they mostly moved upstream to the spawning grounds where the tagged fish remained for most of the season, and then dispersed downstream to the lower river and into Chesapeake Bay. In the feeding season (July-October), tagged fish were scattered throughout Chesapeake Bay and tributaries. Some striped bass which overwintered in the Potomac were recaptured during the following spawning season in other Chesapeake Bay tributaries, and fish from the Potomac contributed materially to the stocks of striped bass along the northeast Atlantic coast. Spawning striped bass return to the same spawning grounds in successive years. Recaptures of tagged fish by date and location during the wintering, spawning, and feeding seasons, and the miles traveled and days at large by individuals, are tabulated.
1351314|The effect of bottom sediment composition on the pelecypod mollusc, Rangia cuneata, was investigated in the Pamlico River estuary, North Carolina. Mortality, meat weight: shell weight ratio, and shell growth were evaluated in relation to particle size, organic matter concentration, and phosphate concentration in the sediment. In situ factorial experiments were carried out for 5 months using indivdually marked clams placed in boxes of predetermined sediment composition. Clay-silt sediments were found to be an unfavorable environmental substrate. The detrimental effect was greater in sediments containing high levels of organic matter and phosphate, suggesting that physical and chemical factors associated with finer sediments were responsible. However, in sand sediments, high levels of organic matter and phosphate were found to be favorable to Rangia. To clarify these field results, clams were placed in trays with sediment containing zinc-65 labeled detrital matter and phosphate-32. The results indicated that Rangia can accumulate these materials from the sediment. Although Rangia is morphologically a typical filter-feeding bivalve, this species appears to obtain organic matter and phosphate from the sediment by direct ingestion or by feeding on bacteria associated with these materials. Such mechanisms are suggested as a possible cause of the better growth observed in sand sediments with moderately high levels of organic matter and phosphate.
1350931|First record of the green turtle, Chelonia mydas mydas, in Maryland's Chincoteague Bay is presented. Also, the second known observation of a barnacle, Platylepas hexastylos-green turtle association is discussed.
1351238|The change, during storage, in concentration of dissolved inorganic, dissolved organic, and particulate phosphorus, and nitrate, nitrite, and ammonia in estuarine water was examined in samples that were refrigerated and in samples which were quick-frozen. One half of each set of samples was pretreated with 0.7% v/v chloroform. At all times of the year quick-freezing alone stabilized nutrient concentrations, whereas freezing with chloroform resulted, at times, in significant changes in the nutrient levels. Refrigeration never stabilized all nutrient levels regardless of the presence or absence of chloroform.
1350621| The common periwinkle, Littorina littorea, is reported from Ocean City, Maryland, and its southern spread is reviewed. A southward flowing longshore current has assisted its southward spread. The southern limit of this species is correlated with water mean isotherm of 21C in the warmest month on both sides of the Atlantic. This limit may be expected to fluctuate with yearly variations in coastal water temperatures. 
1351043|Continuous records of physical parameters of the marine environment are difficult as well as expensive to obtain. This paper describes preliminary results of an investigative program with the purpose of developing low cost time integrating measurement and averaging devices for water temperature and dissolved oxygen. Measurements were made in an estuarine area of the Chesapeake Bay over two week periods. With chemical thermometers average water temperature for the two week period was found to be equal to average water temperature measured with thermocouples plus or minus 1.0 C. The slow diffusion of oxygen through the semipermiable sides of plastic bottles permitted the use of water filled bottles to obtain averaged oxygen measurements. Oxygen measurements for two week averaging times using 500 ml polyethylene bottles were found to vary from conventionally measured and averaged dissolved oxygen by about 1.8 mg/l.
1350592|Yearly and seasonal changes in the structure of the macrobenthic (> 1.0 mm) community occurring in the 9-m mud habitat of the Calvert Cliffs region of the Chesapeake Bay were examined for three years. Seasonal changes in the numerically dominant species resulted in varying community structure and was characterized by a near total faunal depletion during summer, initial recolonization during early fall, secondary recolonization during late fall, and growth and structural development during winter and spring. The faunal depletion that occurred each summer caused the cycle to repeat on an annual basis. The structure of the community was similar each year during initial recolonization (fall), but varied during secondary recolonization (winter and spring), reflecting the recruitment success of species that reproduce in the fall (i. e., Macoma balthica, Mulinia lateralis, Nereis succinea, and Paraprionospio pinnata). These findings have profound implications for the design and interpretation of power plant preoperational-postoperational impact studies.
1351078|Bacteriological studies were carried out to determine a causative agent of soft-shell clam mortalities occurring in Chesapeake Bay, i. e., Eastern Bay to the Wicomico River, in midwinter, 1970 and through 1971. Several screening tests were performed in preliminary experiments designed to detect the presence of potential pathogens. Growth of 57 cultures isolated from count plates was tested at cold temperatures over long periods of time. Sixteen strains grew under the conditions employed in this screening and of these, eight strains were found to cause death of all animals within 48 hours and to show good growth at 4 C within one week. Numerical taxonomy was employed to identify and classify the isolates. Two of the eight strains, one identified as a member of the Enterobacteriaceae and the other as a Vibrio sp., were considered to be potential pathogens for the soft-shell clam. Direct evidence of the pathogenicity of these strains is not yet conclusive, although pathogenicity is strongly indicated from the results of experiments carried out in this study.
1350987|Mean lethal dose-time curves are used to describe the radiation tolerances of 6 species of marine teleosts and 2 species of marine invertebrates. These curves describe radiation tolerances better than the commonly used LD<sub>50</sub>(30 day) values since they show changes in LD<sub>50</sub>' s with increasing time after irradiation. In addition, these curves are very useful as guides in experimental design.
1351184|The toadfish axillary glands are flattened pouchs bilaterally situated close to the surface of the skin, in the axil of pectoral fins. Each gland has a large lumen opening to the external environment. The epithelial lining is thrown into folds and consists of mucous cells, epithelial cells, and huge flask-shaped clavate cells. Deep to the luminal lining is dense connective tissue containing blood vessels and nerves. Electron microscopy reveals that the clavate cells have a central vacuole containing a secretory product. In addition, hitherto undescribed membrane-limited "blebs" with a content density and texture similar to that of the product project inward from the vacuolar membrane. The cytoplasm, which contains vesicles and tubules of agranular or sparsely granular endoplasmic reticulum and a large nucleus, is relegated by the secretion to the periphery of the cell. The bordering epithelial cells are characterized by dilated cisternae of granular endoplasmic reticulum, membrane-limited granules, presumably secretory in nature, and large finger-like projections bounded by a thick basement membrane. These projections extend into the underlying connective tissue. Both the epithelial cells and the endothelial cells of the surrounding blood vessels exhibit a large number of pinocytotic vesicles. The method of release of the secretion and the function of the gland are as yet undetermined.
1350567|Sika deer have spread from the original site of introduction on James Island in Chesapeake Bay and now occupy the western third of Dorchester County, Maryland. In Virginia they remain confined to Assateague Island.
1351162| The larval stages of the Xanthid crab, Hexapanopeus angustifrons (Benedict and Rathbun) have been reared under constant conditions in the laboratory. The four zoeal stages and one megalops are figured and described. The zoeae can be differentiated from larvae of other Xanthid crabs by the absence of dorsal or lateral spines on the telson. The rostral spines of the megalops of H. angustifrons distinguish it from megalops of other Xanthid crabs which have been described. At 25 C, 30 p. p. t., development to the crab required a minimum of 21 days and a maximum of 37 days. Survival to the first crab ranged from 30 to 74%. 
1350795|Twenty-eight percent of a sample of Rana pipiens tadpoles collected at Long Beach, Calvert County, Maryland, on May 28, 1962 were scoliotic. This is the first record of this abnormality from a natural amphibian population.
1351316|The depositional and early diagenetic environments in southern Chesapeake Bay are interpreted in terms of horizontal and vertical variations of percent content by weight of sediment of (1) organic and inorganic carbon, (2) total phosphorus, (3) total iron, (4) calcium and magnesium, (5) sodium and potassium, and (6) Kjeldahl nitrogen. Sediment reworking activities by benthic invertebrates are shown by non-laminated structure of the sediment and homogeneous vertical distribution of the major cations. Organic carbon and total iron contents are highest in the fine, deepest water sediments. The existence of organo-iron complexes in the sediment is supported by a positive correlation between organic carbon and total iron. An aerobic hydrosol condition of the surface sediments is indicated by high phosphorus contents. Organic carbon: Kjeldahl nitrogen ratios suggest that the organic matter of subsurface sediments is largely refractory.
1350875| The distribution of nitrate and nitrite in two Delaware salt marshes was studied from July 1966 through December 1967. Canary Creek Marsh, located near the mouth of Delaware Bay, was characterized by high salinity, low nitrate water. The Murderkill Marsh, in central Delaware, was characterized by low salinity, high nitrate water. Man-made control structures in the Murderkill Marsh inhibited free tidal exchange and modified the distribution of nitrate and nitrite. Maximum nitrate concentrations occurred in the winter, while minimum concentrations were observed during the summer. Summer nitrate concentrations in the Canary Creek Marsh ranged from undetectable (<2 g-at/1) to 8 g-at/1. Winter values were generally between 10 and 25 g-at/1. At the Murderkill Marsh winter nitrate concentrations ranged from 40 to 100 g-at/1, and the summer concentrations were generally in the range of 5 to 20 g-at/1. Nitrite concentrations in both areas rarely exceeded 1.5 g-at/1, and exhibited no discernable seasonable pattern. 
1351140|Two types of nematocytes were commonly found in the fishing tentacle of Cyanea capillata. One cell contained an unencysted thread coiled about its expanded proximal butt. This thread had barbs on its surface and was enclosed within a multilayered capsule. A nematocyst enclosing a thread with an expanded terminal bulb was also present. The coils of these threads were free in the cytoplasm. No barbs were present on these structures.
1351229| Several examples of young parasitic sea lampreys 6 to 7 inches long attached to Atlantic menhaden about the same length were observed from the channel at a depth of about 70 feet in Chesapeake Bay, Maryland for the first time. They were snagged incidentally to gillnetting operations for striped bass, at bottom temperatures of about 4 C and a salinity of about 16. These few records, and reports from fisherman, suggest that the incidence of sea lamprey attachment to menhaden is very low in spite of the high abundance of the hosts. They also show that some newly metamorphosed sea lampreys overwinter in the estuary instead of going to sea in fall as formerly believed, and that they apparently feed parasitically at low winter temperatures. During spring months the small sea lampreys parasitize anadromous clupeoids that migrate into the upper tributaries; thus, the incidence of parasitism of the new hosts seems partly related to the high density of the latter as they move over estuarine bottoms where some of the sea lampreys are overwintering. The lack of serious parasitism and the very low number of large pre-spawning sea lampreys 20 to 36 inches long apparently parastizing fish in Chesapeake Bay are discussed. 
1351142|To test the effects of phosphorus mining waste water (SPW) and domestic sewage on the growth of phytoplankton in the Pamlico River estuary, six 1400 m<sup>3</sup> artificial estuaries and eight 15 m<sup>3</sup> plastic pools were constructed. Measurements of phytoplankton biomass and abundance of blue-green algae were made at regular intervals in estuaries and pools that contained various concentrations of SPW and artificial sewage. Concentration (excluding controls) of SPW in the pools was 1% and in the estuaries ranged from 2% to 8% of the total water volume. The concentration of an artificial sewage mix in the pools was 0.1% v/v. The present-day concentration of SPW in the lower Pamlico River is about 0.7% v/v and is expected to rise as other companies begin mining operations. Two experiments were carried out, one (44 days long) in the estuaries and one (36 days long) in the plastic pools. The experiments gave evidence that the addition of SPW to estuarine water does not immediately increase the biomass of the phytoplankton. This is most likely because phosphorus apparently does not limit the growth of phytoplankton in the river. As shown in a study that took place in late summer, nitrogen limited the algal photosynthesis in the Pamlico estuary. However, blue-green algae cell numbers (Anabaena sp. and Spirulina sp.) were 77.2% higher (.010<p<.025) than controls in estuaries containing approximately 8% SPW v/v. Although cell numbers were 33.2% above controls in estuaries with 2% SPW v/v, the difference was not statistically significant at the 5% level. Also, blue-green algae (Anabaena torulosa) numbers were 404% higher (.010<p<.025) than controls in plastic pools with 1% SPW v/v and 295% above (.010<p<.025) controls with 1% SPW and 0.1% v/v artificial sewage. The growth of blue-green algae was probably stimulated by the addition of phosphorus in the SPW, and their nitrogen fixing ability allowed them to obtain sufficient nitrogen in waters where this nutrient is otherwise limiting. This increase in blue-green algae may be potentially harmful to the estuary by changing the algal species composition and by adding fixed nitrogen to an estuary where photosynthesis is nitrogen limited. The addition of an artificial sewage mix (commercial fish food) to the plastic pools did not significantly affect the growth of phytoplankton. An analysis of the artificial sewage mix showed that the limiting nutrient nitrogen was apparently not in a form that was available to phytoplankton. This experiment showed that commercial fish food is apparently not an effective substitute for domestic sewage in enrichment bioassays.
1350720|Plankton samples were collected monthly from 22 stations in the Atlantic Ocean and 3 in Chesapeake Bay. Numerous larvae of sand lance, Ammodytes americanus, were taken from January through April, 1960. Larvae were widely distributed over the survey area but were most abundant beyond 25 miles from shore. Statistical analysis of sample mean lengths indicated movement offshore and a tendency for a group hatched together to remain together. Rate of larval development was approximated at 11.7 mm per month for the first four months. It is believed that spawning occurred at 5-12 fathoms in the study area. Hatching began in late November, reached a peak sometime after mid-December, and continued until mid-March. Few larvae were collected in waters with salinities less than 30%.
1350539|Measurements comparable to those listed by Bigelow and Schroeder are recorded along with the proportional dimensions in percent of total length for an adult male and female bull shark, Carcharhinus leucas. These specimens were captured on successive days in the same pound net in Chesapeake Bay near Galesville, Maryland. Comments on gonad condition of the female, as well as the stomach contents, are included. Eels and white perch are added to the known food of this species. The pH of the stomach fluid was 3.7. Ten adult specimens have authentically been recorded (1956-1959) 61 to 119 miles above the mouth of Chesapeake Bay. Although no general pattern of unusually high water temperatures or salinities was noted for these years, speculation on the appearance of this species this far north is proposed, linked to the increased warming oceanic waters.
1350383|A brief introduction to toxicity testing with estuarine and marine macroinvertebrates and fish is presented. Toxicity testing terminology, test conditions and procedures are discussed with an emphasis on toxicity testing using chlorine as the toxicant.
1350497| Adult male and immature, mature, and ovigerous female blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, prefer different portions of estuaries. Total osmotic concentrations of blood samples from crabs held in 5, 50, or 100% sea water (salinity 34 ) at 10, 20, or 30 C indicated that some differences in osmoregulatory capabilities were related to differences in distribution. Ovigerous females did not regulate as well as mature females or adult males at 5 or 50% sea water, at all temperatures. In 50 or 100% sea water, osmotic concentrations of immature females generally were less than those of mature females. At almost all temperature-salinity combinations, however, differences in the osmoregulatory ability of adult males and mature females were not significant. The blue crab showed good hyperosmotic regulation in 5 and 50% sea water but regulated its blood hyposmotically in 100% sea water. 
1350881|Winter food habits and condition factors of the brown bullhead, Ictalurus nebulosus, were determined from specimens collected in the discharge canal of the Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company plant and Chapman Pond, a cove of the Connecticut River unaffected by artificial heating. Stomach content analysis indicated that fish overwintering in the heated discharge fed while those in water at 2 C from Chapman Pond did not. Fish, annelids, insects, molluses and zooplankton were consumed, with fish the most abundant food. Bullheads began feeding before the temperature reached 4 C in Chapman Pond. The normal bullhead diet of invertebrates shifted to smaller fish in the densely populated canal. Although the bullheads in the canal fed throughout the winter, their body condition was poorer than that of fish overwintering in Chapman Pond.
1350346| Groups of adult mummichogs, Fundulus heteroclitus, were subjected to different concentrations of zinc as zinc chloride at 24  salinity, pH 8.0 and 20 C. At 192 hours, all mummichogs exposed to 43 ppm or less of zinc were alive and outwardly indistinguishable from the controls. Among these survivors there were no appreciable differences at 192 hours in zinc content of various tissues, as determined by atomic absorption spectroscopy, regardless of the initial amount of zinc in solution. All mummichogs subjected to 157 ppm or 180 ppm of zinc died between 24 and 48 hours. Dead mummichogs contained about 7 and 8 times more zinc in whole fish and in gill arch, respectively, than controls and this affords an index of zinc-caused mortality for the species. 
1350401|A fourth authentic Maryland specimen of the fossorial rainbow snake is reported from near Newburg, Charles County. An adult female 930 mm long, it is the only complete specimen now in collections from Maryland. Biological data for the specimen and the ecological aspects of this species in Maryland are discussed.
1350575|Cleaning behavior was observed in the laboratory among cyprinodontid fishes parasitized with monogenetic trematodes and leeches. Fundulas majalis elicited cleaning behavior from Cyprinodon variegatus by assuming a head-down position with compensatory fin movements. In a high intensity display the host may be completely vertical with an S-shaped curve to the body. When picked at by the cleaner, the host may jerk and swim away but often returns to pose again in the invitation position. Cyprinodon variegatus and Lucania parva were observed to clean intraspecifically. In each case the invitation to be cleaned consists of a head-up pose with compensatory fin movements. Occasionally intraspecific soliciting of cleaning occurs. Cyprinodon variegatus also cleans L. parva. These invitation poses may have evolved from intraspecific appeasement or submissive postures to serve for interspecific communication.
1351191|Salinity and current data from the Upper Potomac estuary have been analyzed to determine the intensity of the internal circulation. One set of data, collected during the fall of 1973, suggested that a reverse flow existed as far upstream as Maryland Point. Data taken during other periods indicated that an estuarine circulation, with a reverse flow in the lower layer, was not well developed above Morgantown. However, the net seaward flow did decrease significantly with depth at all stations below Douglas Point causing vertical shear in the mean profiles and, although there was no direct observational evidence from the measurements, it is possible that a return flow existed close to the bottom at some of the stations.
1350578|Seston, particulate carbon, relative irradiance and Secchi disk depth measurements were taken at eight stations in the estuarine portion of the Patuxent River for two years. Seston values in the central portion of the estuary were high as a result of resuspension in the "sediment trap." In this estuary, seston concentration cannot be precisely estimated from either Secchi disk depth or the attenuation coefficient of diffuse light. The attenuation coefficient of diffuse light (k) may be calculated from the equation: k = 1.43 [Secchi disk depth ( m)]<sup>-1</sup>.
1350857| The size, species composition and structure of the fish community in a 9.6 km stretch of the James River in the Piedmont Province of Virginia were analyzed. Twenty collections were made by electrofishing from October 1972 through September 1973 from both the north side of the river, which received a thermal discharge from an electric power station (T4-14C at outfall), and the south side where temperatures were ambient. Parameters investigated were number of species, total number of individuals and the Shannon-Wiener and evenness indices of species diversity. Differences were found to exist in community structure among seasons within both the ambient and thermally influenced zones. In the ambient zone all parameters showed significant seasonal change with values lower in the winter. At the outfall station significant seasonal change occurred for only the diversity and evenness indices with values lower in the summer. Average total abundance remained lower within all seasons at the outfall station than in the ambient zone. As temperatures declined downstream from the point of effluent discharge parameter values more closely approached those on the unheated side of the river. 
1351328|This paper extends previous comparisons of free amino acids and small peptides from the adductor muscles of oysters to experimental stocks from Delaware Bay, Long Island Sound, Louisiana, Virginia, and several sections of the Chesapeake Bay. A modified technique, adapted from thin-layer chromatography and used in this study, is described.
1350977|Descriptions and illustrations of larvae and juveniles of the ballyhoo, Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Linneaus) and Hyporhamphus sp. are provided, based on specimens from Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries. The first captures of young He. brasiliensis in estuarine conditions are recorded and the first documented record of this species from Maryland waters of Chesapeake Bay is offered.
1350609| Young American shad were subjected to abrupt and gradual changes between saltwater and freshwater media. No mortality occurred with salinity increase, even abrupt change from fresh water or 5  salinity to about 30  salinity. Complete mortality occurred with abrupt salinity decrease from about 30 to 0  but not with gradual decrease from about 5 to 0 . Young American shad tolerate salinity change, especially salinity increase. Instances of apparent intolerance of salinity change reported in the literature and observed by myself may be primarily due to handling stress. Euryhaline ability permits American shad to use brackish and freshwater nurseries. The importance of brackish nurseries probably depends on the rate of seaward dispersal of the young and the proximity of brackish water to the chief spawning grounds. 
1350533|Yellow perch, Perca flavescens, procured from the Chester River estuary, were tagged and stocked on a "put and take" basis in the upper parts of the Severn and Magothy Rivers in tidewater Maryland. Subsequent movements were spectacularly different from those of resident fish. Stocked fish (of which about 20 percent were recaptured) attempted immediately to leave the rivers. Their essentially random movements distributed them widely, from the Susquehanna Flats to Tilghman Island in Chesapeake Bay, over a salinity range from tidal freshwater to about 12 ppt. Recaptures of about 10 percent of tagged resident fish indicate that few of them leave the Severn River. Most of the recaptures of stocked fish were taken by commercial netters outside the two rivers of stocking (53 and 82 percent from the Severn and Magothy, respectively). Anglers in the rivers and in Chesapeake Bay accounted for the balance. A small, unknown number of stocked fish remained within the Severn and Magothy Rivers for over two years and were presumably acclimatized. Tag recaptures were also returned from Chesapeake Bay localities for a two year period following the February 1956 stocking. Most (75 percent) of the tagged fish were recovered outside the two tributaries during the first four months; many were taken during the first month of freedom. Very few stocked fish returned to the Chester River. It is suggested that those trying to return failed because they were removed too far to rely on their visual, tactile and olfactory faculties to guide them successfully. A discussion of the other factors that might bring about the striking dispersal is also given. It is concluded that "put and take" stocking of adult estuarine yellow perch in strange waters is of doubtful management value in Chesapeake Bay.
1350457|In the upper Patuxent Estuary environmental changes in temperature, salinity, and turbidity over a 5-year period are linked to changes in epifaunal production and species distribution. During 1967 a series of monthly panels showed dry weight production averaged 2.8 times greater in a steam electric station heated effluent than in the intake. A downriver shift in epifaunal production in 1967 and changes in species abundance was noted and attributed to natural changes in salinity and turbidity and man-induced changes in temperature.
1351282|A yearlong study of the general taxonomic composition and standing crop of zooplankton was made in a system of shallow estuaries near Beaufort, N. C. Ten stations were sampled with a No. 10 net at 5-week intervals. Copepods predominated; meroplanktonic larvae were second in importance. Standing crop ranged from 0.002 to 0.46 ml/ m<sup>3</sup> (displacement volume). Averages for the stations ranged from 0.089 to 0.149 ml/ m<sup>3</sup> and were not significantly different from one another. Averages for the surveys ranged from 0.033 ml/ m<sup>3</sup> in July-August to 0.285 in January. The standing crop was significantly greater in the winter than in the late summer. The annual average, 0.114 ml/ m<sup>3</sup>, multiplied by the average depth of the estuaries, 1.18 m, yielded a standing crop of 0.13 ml/ m<sup>2</sup>. Comparison of our data with other studies suggested that a small standing crop of zooplankton was typical of shallow embayments. For areas other than the open sea, standing crop was approximated by the equation: Zooplankton vol.( ml/ m<sup>2</sup>) = 0.259 x avg length water column ( m)<sup>1.145</sup> Factors responsible for the scarcity of zooplankton in the Beaufort area were not identified, but temperature, food supply, and tidal flushing were eliminated as potential factors. Daily food consumption by zooplankton was estimated to be only 2 to 9% of the phytoplankton net photosynthesis. In shallow areas the importance of zooplankton as a part of the herbivore link in the food chain appeared inversely related to the average length of the water column.
