4000139|Coprophanaeus telamon corythus (Har.), a scarabaeine, is reported for the first time to bury individual vertebrate bones. This behavior by individuals on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, is correlated with interactions within the necrophagous community.
4008777|Tritoma affinis Lacordaire and T. carolinae Casey are found to be conspecific with T. biguttata (Say). Tritoma biguttata and T. affinis represent distinct, well-defined sub-species, while T. carolinae is found to represent hybrid individuals occurring in the intergrade zone and is therefore reduced to synonymy. Relationships among Tritoma humeralis Fabricius, T. atriventris LeConte and T. aulica (Horn) are discussed, and these species compared to T. biguttata.
27571085|Cicindela (Dromochorus) pruinina (Casey) is a flightless tiger beetle that was described by Casey in 1897. Since its description, it has had a diverse nomenclatural history. It occurs from Kansas and central Missouri south through Oklahoma to south Texas. Aspects of the life history are poorly known, and the larval stages have not been described. Collections of live adults from Onaga, Kansas, were transferred to a terrarium, eggs were obtained. and larvae were reared and described. Larvae were similar to other known species of Cicindela L. Notes on habitat and adult behavior were also made.
3999890|Dissection of female Myrmecaphodius excavaticollis (Blanchard) and Euparia castanea Serville from black light collections indicated that both species flew in all stages of ovarian development. Dissection of beetles collected from light traps, ant mounds, pitfall traps, and on top of ant mounds suggested that M. excavaticollis may breed continuously during the year. The maximum number of mature eggs found in M. excavaticollis was 26, with most specimens containing 12 or fewer. Dissection of E. castanea collected from ant mounds and light traps indicated that this species too may breed continuously throughout the year. The maximum number of eggs observed in E. castanea was 18. There were 6 ovarioles per ovary in both species.
4008812| The Chilean genus Pythoplesius Kolbe 1907 is a junior subjective synonym of Cycloderus Solier 1851, and its type species, P. michaelseni Kolbe 1907, is a junior subjective synonym of C. magellanicus Philippi 1862. The nomenclatural confusion resulting from the original description of P. michaelseni is discussed, and a lectotype is designated for this species. /// El gnero chileno Pythoplesius Kolbe 1907 es considerado un sinnimo secundario subjetivo de Cycloderus Solier 1851, y su especie tipo, P. michaelseni Kolbe 1907, como sinnimo secundario subjetivo de C. magellanicus Philippi 1862. La confuson de nomenclatura que result de la descripcin original se discute y se le asigna un lectotipo a P. michaelseni. 
4008054|Holotypes of Xenopygus bicolor (Laporte) and X. peruvianus (Solsky) appear to have been lost. A neotype for X. bicolor is designated, but X. peruvianus cannot be identified from existing materials and descriptions. A new species, X. confusus Irmler (type locality French Guiana) is described, and re-descriptions are given for X. analis (Erichson), X. bicolor, and X. cordovensis Bernhauer, with a key to identification of adults.
3999868|Apion (Trichapion) candyae, new species (San Vicente, El Salvador), forms galls on leaf petioles, petiolets, and midveins of Erythrina berteroana Urban. A member of a poorly understood complex including many species with striking secondary sexual modifications, A. candyae is particularly rich in such modifications. An attempt to determine precise relationships by comparisons of characteristics mentioned in published descriptions failed, because the data matrix was insufficiently rich in usable specializations--i.e., derived characteristics shared among 2 or more taxa. However, presently available data indicate that the narrowest interpretation is of shared ancestry with the Mexican A. sleeperi Kissinger, another species with numerous bizarre male specializations. With some reservations, these 2 species are retained in the nigrum group of the subgenus Trichapion.
4009419| Phyllophaga (Phyllophaga) chinanteca, a new species of Melolonthidae, is described from the cloud forest of Oaxaca, Mexico. It is compared to Phyllophaga godmani (Bates) and to the "rugipennis" species group. Phyllophaga godmani is redescribed from males and females, and the sclerotized genital structures of both sexes are illustrated. /// Se describe Phyllophaga (Phyllophaga) chinanteca, especie nueva, con base en siete ejemplares recolectados en un bosque mesfilo de montaa de Oaxaca, Mxico. Se le compara con Phyllophaga godmani (Bates) y con las especies del grupo "rugipennis". Phyllophaga godmani se redescribe con base en ejemplares de los dos sexos procedentes de las montaas de Veracruz, y se ilustran las partes esclerosadas de sus rganos genitales. 
4008541|Adults of an Arizona population of Dynastes granti Horn were observed feeding on the common tree, velvet ash, Fraxinus velutina Torry. Feeding damage was restricted to young branches and resulted in linear scars that exposed the cambium. An apparent defense behavior was observed when the beetles were disturbed: a stream of liquid was squirted from the tip of the abdomen. The recorded range of the species is extended to adjacent areas in southern Utah, western New Mexico, and northern Mexico.
4009085|The lixine weevils Lixus carinerostris and Calodemas prolixus successfully breed whilst co-existing on the succulent Mesembryanthemum crystallinum in the Lesser Karoo, South Africa and southern pro-Namib, Namibia. The species exhibit trophic specializations: larvae of L. carinerostris develop endophytically only in the stems and crowns, whereas larvae of C. prolixum develop exophytically only on the tap roots.
3999674|In preparation for a discussion elsewhere of the natural history of Eurycoleus macularis Chevrolat (Carabidae: Lebiini), the immature stages are described, including the egg, 4 larval instars, and pupa. Figures are provided which illustrate the larval habitus (4th instar), dorsal and ventral aspect of head capsule (2nd instar), pygopod (1st instar), and pupa.
4008120|The Cremastocheilus subgenus Myrmecotonus Mann comprises four species groups. One of these, the Robinsoni Group, is diagnosed and both included species are figured for the first time. Cremastocheilus robinsoni Cazier is redescribed to include specific and species group characters previously overlooked. A new species, Cremastocheilus (Myrmecotonus) tomentosus Warner, is described from two localities in Arizona and one in northern Sonora, Mexico. Information on its mating habits is presented.
4008783|Adult Photinus collustrans fireflies are found from April to October with population peaks in early May and in August. Peaks of male and female abundance occur during the same weeks of the year. Males start nightly signaling first in darker areas of the habitat, and they start earlier when males are more abundant. On the first night females leave their burrows in the soil for mate attraction; most exits correspond with the nightly peak in abundance of signaling males. On subsequent nights, females that remain unmated exit earlier, thus overlapping their availability with more of the male signaling period. Unmated females may remain outside of the burrow long after males have ceased signaling for the night. That females thus continue to expose themselves to the risk of predation with no apparent chance of mating is unexpected and deserves further study.
4000068|The genus Rosella Whitehead was formerly known only from its type-species, the Costa Rican R. sickingiae Whitehead, a seed predator of Sickingiae maxonii (Rubiaceae). Lignyodes triophori Gyllenhal from Brazil is transferred to Rosella, redescribed, illustrated, and included in a key distinguishing it from R. sickingiae and from R. arcuata from Panama and Colombia which is described and illustrated as new.
3999931|Cholomus panamensis is described from Panama; the genus, now of 5 species, is briefly characterized.
4009028| Based on structural features of adults, Pasimachus cuestai, new species (type locality: Tepexco, Puebla, Mxico), is described and illustrated with a drawing of the habitus in dorsal aspect. The species is postulated to be the sister species of Pasimachus aurocinctus Chaudoir. 
3999581|The genus Bryothinusa was previously known by a single species, B. catalinae Casey, from intertidal situations in California. The new species, B. chani Moore & Legner, was collected from intertidal mud flats in Hong Kong.
4009089|A new species of Limnichidae, Byrrhinus ferax Wooldridge, is described from the Philippine Islands and from Borneo. This species is distinguished from other limnichids from the Philippines and from Borneo by the finely punctate pronotum, the impressed sutural row of elytral punctures, and by the irregularly arranged coarse, deep punctures on the elytral discs.
3999528|The Pandeleteius subgenus Exmenetypus Voss is defined and revised for Central America. Included are hieroglyphicus Champion from Costa Rica, opalescens (Faust) from Panama, and championi n. sp. from Guatemala.
4009374| Described from Brazil are: Ischionodonta viridinigra, new species, from Espirito Santo, I. paraibensis, new species, from Paraba and I. earina, new species, from Par. Ischionodonta brasiliensis (Chevrolat), the type species of the genus, is redescribed based on the holotype. A key to the metallic green species of Ischionodonta Chevrolat is added. 
4008429|The assignment of the monotypic genus Camioleum Lewis from Japan to the Anthobium-group of genera within the tribe Anthophagini of the staphylinid subfamily Omaliinae is confirmed. Some of the characters of Camioleum are discussed, the sexual characters and the characters on the eighth abdominal segment are described and illustrated. Some ecological data for C. loripes Lewis are presented, based on specimens collected by the author in two locations on the island of Honshu.
4007976|The functional morphology of the feeding apparatus of 12 species of carabid beetles from 8 tribes has been studied. This has been correlated with the gut contents and the ability of some individuals (particularly Carabitae) to produce digestive fluids pre-orally to aid digestion. A wide range of species exhibting diverse feeding habits has been investigated; it includes both those Carabinae which are strictly carnivorous and those which are mainly herbivorous. Thus a basis has been established which enables the feeding methods of carabid beetles, which are relatively little known, to be better understood.
4008505|A new species, Pachypeza panamensis, is described from eastern Panama and figured, and P. joda Dillon and Dillon is recorded from southern Mexico. These represent the first records for the tribe Pachypezini north of South America. A revised key to the species of Pachypeza is provided.
4008255|Pine cone beetles of the genus Conophthorus (Coleoptera; Scolytidae) require approximately one year for maturation from eggs to adults. Most of this time is spent within brood chambers constructed in the ovulate cones of pine trees. If the brood is to be successful, then the chambers must remain intact for at least one year. Species of pine trees that are attacked by cone beetles have cones which are decay-resistant for at least one year, whereas pine species whose cones are not attacked by cone beetles have cones which decompose rapidly. Other animals that cache plant material for over-winter food supplies and/or live within their caches seem to select decay-resistant plants for such purposes.
3999809|Besides the known stridulation in stress, calling, and courtship functional categories, acoustical signals in 2 new categories, male copulation and female aggression (male rejection), are described for the genus Tropisternus. Two male positions are recognized during courtship: the forward position and the probing position. T. columbianus restricts stridulation to the probing position, whereas the other 2 species stridulate in both positions. All species of Tropisternus studied emit stress and calling chirps. T. ellipticus also has either male buzzes or slow trills during both probing and copulation. T. columbianus has male courtship slow trills. T. lateralis limbalis has male ticking during calling, and it has courtship fast trills identical to the subspecies T. l. nimbatus. Females of T. ellipticus and T. columbianus have a similar aggressive signal, the rejection buzz, which terminates courtship by males. Although courtship sounds were emitted during calling, calling sounds were never emitted during courtship.
4008367|Nesostrinchus orientalis is described from Niue and the Tonga Islands. Illustrations and a short discussion are given to separate the new species from other members of the genus.
4009179|Two very similar forms of Stator Bridwell, one from South America and the other from Central and North America, have been considered the species Stator limbatus (Horn) and S. cearanus (Pic) respectively, based on external color and the shape of the spiculum gastrale of the male genitalia. Closer examination of these forms reared from seeds from the USA to Brazil has revealed that they are referable to one species because there are no consistent differences between the named forms in external color or shape of the spiculum gastrale. The names are placed in new synonymy under S. limbatus. New host records are reported from Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela and Mexico. Of the approximately 74 known hosts for S. limbatus, 30 are in the genus Acacia Miller, but it also feeds in seeds of the legume genera Pithecellobium Martius, Albizia Durazzo, Cercidium Tulasne, Lysiloma Bentham, Calliandra Bentham, Piptadenia Bentham, Leucaena Bentham, Parkinsonia Linnaeus and Chloroleucon Britton & Rose. Throughout its range, S. limbatus oviposits only on exposed seeds in pods on the plant.
4009566| The mature larvae of Phaedon (Orthosthica) semimarginatus affinis Gurin is described and illustrated. This larva shares several morphological features with other members of the genus. It is similar to P. concinus Stephens and P. conchleariae (F.) in that tubercles Es and Ss are fused on meso and metathorax and the absence of Dae in segments 1-6. Frontal setae (f 2) are absent on larvae of P. (O.) s. affinis, tubercles Dai and Dae are separated on meso and metathorax, and only tubercle Dai is present on abdominal segments 1-3. Natural history is also discussed. 
3999886|Distributional data for the Pleocoma hoppingi--Pleocoma rubiginosa species complex are recorded, and clinal character tendencies are discussed. Structural and meristic characters utilized in species differentiation are analyzed, and the antennomeres for the known population samples of both species are characterized. P. r. transsierrae is described as new, and a description is presented for the female of P. r. rubiginosa. Comparisons are given between females of P. hoppingi and P. rubiginosa, and the problems inherent in Pleocoma female differentiation are discussed.
4009438|The first species of Buprestidae from Dominican amber is described as Chrysobothris amberestris, new species. A short discussion of fossil buprestids is presented.
3999990|The Field Museum contains 125 primary types of Cerambycidae, including 11 lectotypes herein designated for species of Moneilema and Romaleum. This list includes label data and original literature citations for each.
3999824|A clarification of published descriptions of Phanaeus difformis LeConte is presented. The species is found statewide and prefers, but is not restricted to, sandy soils in open pastures. It is primarily coprophagous and is attracted to swine and human feces. Field studies indicate that activities of the species (burrowing, nidification) parallel those of P. vindex MacLeay. In the laboratory, an average of 1 egg ball (ca. 32.4 gr each), was constructed every 8 days. Development time (egg to adult) was 6 to 12 months. Adults survived a maximum of 473 days. As determined by laboratory studies, color in this species seems to be genetically controlled.
4008055|Adult and larval stages of the new species Trogoderma cavum Beal are described and a diagnosis is provided. The species has been found in rice stores in Bolivia.
40664415|The flightless dung beetle Circellum bacchus (Fabricius, 1781) is a unique, ectothermic dung beetle that is of conservation concern due to a massive decline in its distribution. Very little is known about its conservation ecology and the upgrade of roads in one of its last strongholds, South Africa's Addo Elephant National Park, led to concerns that road kill was threatening the population because drivers could not see the beetles due to their similar colour as the upgraded roads. We tested whether the upgraded, black, tar roads led to more road kills than the original sandy-red, gravel roads using counts of live and dead beetles along transects through similar habitats of the park. There was no significant difference between the number of live and dead dung beetles on the tar or gravel roads illustrating that the infrastructure improvements themselves are not threatening the persistence of the species. The high levels of vehicle-derived mortality along roads, however, suggest that road kills may be a threatening process with potentially 100,000 C. bacchus killed on roads annually (although 45,000 is a more conservative estimate). Further research is needed to ascertain whether this off-take is sustainable and to formulate mitigation measures.
3999659|The Nearctic species of Statira (composed of 18 species including 1 new species from Texas) and Arthromacra (composed of 3 species, one of which has 5 subspecies, of which 1 from Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, West Virginia, Tennessee, and Pennsylvania is described as new. Keys are provided to subfamilies of Lagriidae, and to species of Nearctic Statira and Arthromacra.
4007981|Eleven specimens of Solenogenys foeda Westwood were relocated in MNHP, examined, and their genitalia dissected. Six specimens represent the missing "types" of Westwood's type-series and are designated paralectotypes. The holotype and 8 paratypes of Solenogenys thomsoni Reichardt were located in MZSP, examined, and their genitalia dissected. One additional specimen of Solenogenys funkei Adis was collected.
3999783|The genus Pactopus consists of a single living species, P. horni Leconte. P. fuchsi Casey is returned to synonomy. The genus and species are redescribed, and a detailed distribution is given for over 750 specimens.
4008003|Tenebrionid beetle communities were examined in saltbush, creosote-bursage, and pure creosote habitats in the eastern Mojave Desert. Tenebrionid species richness was not correlated with vegetational complexity; each study area supported 14-15 species. Although beetle species composition differed somewhat between habitats, a nucleus of common tenebrionid species was found in all three plant communities. With regard to these common species, there was little evidence for seasonal or microhabitat niche separation.
4008813|A new species, Deinopsis stephani Klimaszewski, from Oklahoma, USA, is described and illustrated, and its relationship to other species of the genus is discussed. New distributional records for thirteen species of Gymnusini and Deinopsini from the Americas are: Gymnusa grandiceps Casey (Maine, USA), G. pseudovariegata Klimaszewski (Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia, Canada), G. campbelli Klimaszewski (Manitoba, Canada); Deinopsis canadensis Klimaszewski (Newfoundland, Canada), D. harringtoni Casey (Manitoba, Canada, and Maine, USA), D. rhadina Klimaszewski (Quebec, Canada), D. illinoisensis Klimaszewski (Oklahoma and Mississippi, USA), D. rapida Casey (Kentucky, Mississippi and Oklahoma, USA), D. franki Klimaszewski (Mississippi, USA); Adinopsis bicornis Klimaszewski (New York, Mississippi and Oklahoma, USA), A. myllaenoides (Kraatz) (Oklahoma, USA, and Nicaragua), A. cuspidata Klimaszewski (Mississippi, USA), and A. pubescens Klimaszewski (Peru).
40664374|Physopleurus swifti Chalumeau, new species, from Brazil is described, illustrated, and compared with Physopleurus rugosus (Gahan), to which it is similar in appearance.
4008508|The egg of Diabrotica lemniscata LeConte is illustrated with a scanning electron micrograph, along with detail micrographs of the secondary sculpturing of nine taxa of Diabroticites. Comparison of the chorions of eggs revealed a phenocline in the secondary sculpturing in the virgifera species group of Diabrotica.
4008496|Larvae are characterized for Adelonia sulcatulus LeConte, Wattius cucullatus Pascoe, Phaleromela globosa (LeConte), Adelina bifurcata (Champion), and Bius estriatus LeConte. Larval features clearly place Adelonia in Lagriinae, Wattius in Toxicini, and Adelina in Diaperini. Certain characters of Phaleromela are as similar to those of Platydema as to Phaleria. The generalized larva of Bius does not unequivocally specify its position, but suggests that placement in Tenebrionini is correct. Dysantini is placed as a new synonym under Toxicini.
4008616|Eutrichites LeConte is defined and placed in the subtribe Pselaptina. The type-species, E. zonatus (Brendel), is redescribed, including a description of the egg. The following are described as new species: E. arizonensis from Arizona; E. veracruzensis from Veracruz, Mexico; and E. buscki from Panama. Xybaris funiculis Park is transferred to Eutrichites as a new combination, and the male is described. A cladogram of Eutrichites species is proposed, and the relationship of the genus to other pselaptine pselaphids is discussed.
4009184|Physcius fasciatus Pic is recorded for the first time from the Puerto Rican Bank Islands and is now known from Puerto Rico, St. Thomas, Great St. James, St. John, Jost Van Dyke, Guana Island, Anegada, St. Croix, Guadeloupe, and Dominica. The adult is redescribed and a lectotype is designated. The larva is described, representing the first description of a larval Physcius Champion. Physcius fasciatus is compared to the other described, and several undescribed maculate West Indian species of Physcius.
4009956|Larvae of the genus Pseudocotalpa Hardy, 1971 are described for the first time based on the larva of P. sonorica Hardy 1974. Characters used to separate Pseudocotalpa from similar genera are given. Life history observations of adults of P. sonorica are also given.
4008655|Seven species in three genera are recognized for the family Byturidae in Asia: Byturus tomentosus (De Geer), B. affinis Reitter, B. ochraceus (Scriba), B. wittmeri Sen Gupta, Xerasia variegata Lewis, X. punica Goodrich and Springer, and Byturodes grahami Barber. The following names are placed in new synonymy: Byturus formosanus Hatta and B. bhutanicus Sen Gupta as synonyms of B. tomentosus; B. ferrugineus Reitter, B. atricollis Reitter, Terobyturus shibakawai Ohta, T. japonicus Ohta, T. fallax Ohta, and Byturus ohtai Barber as synonyms of B. affinis. All seven species are described and illustrated and their distributions and relationships are discussed; a diagnostic key is also provided.
4008038|Morphological descriptions of larvae of the clerid beetle Thanasimus dubius (Fabricius) are presented. Additionally, detailed descriptions of the head capsule, mouthparts, and terminal abdominal segment of the third instar larva are included in order that the species characteristics of T. dubius larvae may be firmly established and clarified.
4009376|Megacerus schaefferianus Bridwell and Amblycerus piurae (Pierce) glue their eggs to the seed pods of their hosts. Their oviposition behavior places them in Oviposition Guild A. New host or distribution records are reported for them as well as Acanthoscelides biustulus (Fall), A. desmanthi Johnson, A. kingsolveri Johnson, A. machala Johnson, A. sennicola Johnson, Ctenocolum acapulcensis Kingsolver and Whitehead, C. martiale Kingsolver and Whitehead, Megacerus callirhipis (Sharp), Mimosestes humeralis (Gyllenhal), M. mimosae (Fabricius), M. ulkei (Horn), Stator limbatus (Horn), and S. trisignatus (Sharp).
3999882|Studies of fossil Pleistocene beetles in the Arctic indicate little evolution or extinction during the last million years. A few Arctic localities have yielded fine Tertiary beetle fossils, of late Miocene age. These older materials are of great evolutionary significance, as many apparently extinct species are included. Proper analyses of the fossil forms depend on an understanding of relationships among extant forms. Taxonomic revisions are therefore at their most useful when phylogenetic constructs have been included, ready for testing and refinement.
4008740|New biological and/or distributional data are given for 67 species of Buprestidae in the following genera: Acmaeodera, Acmaeoderopsis, Actenodes, Agrilus, Anthaxia, Brachys, Buprestis, Chalcophora, Chrysobothris, Cypriacis, Descarpentriesina, Dicerca, Mastogenius, Pachyschelus, Paragrilus, Polycesta, Ptosima, Taphrocerus, and Texania.
4007940|The seasonal history and habits of Subcoccinella vigintiquatuorpunctata (L.), an Old World epilachnine coccinellid known in North America as the European alfalfa beetle, are presented based on observations on bouncing bet, Saponaria officinalis L. (Caryophyllaceae), in southcentral Pennsylvania during 1974-79. Populations were univoltine except for 1976 when a small second generation was produced. Overwintered adults usually became active in late March or early April; larvae typically were present from early April to late June with the number of adults peaking in mid-June. The beetle also bred on Lychnis alba P. Mill., another caryophyllaceous host, but was not recovered from alfalfa fields located near infested bouncing bet. The railroad is implicated in dispersing the beetle in the eastern U.S. Notes on a larval parasite (Eulophidae) and color polymorphism are given.
4008535|When arranged according to increasing degrees of neoteny, larviform Cantharoidea can represent an exploded metamorphic program and gross characters can be traced from fully imaginal adult, through such a gradient, to larva. For example, if metamorphosis is arrested at a point 40% of the way through to completion in one larviform, 50% in another, and 60% in a third, then the second will be more imaginal than the first and more larval than the third as evidenced by characters actively elaborating at that time. If all three bear compound eyes, then maturation of the eyes occurred somewhere between onset of metamorphosis and 39%. If all three lack wings, then wing growth had yet to commence. If the pterothoracic dorsum is larval in the first and shows slight indications of differentiation in the second, then it will show an even greater resemblance to the fully imaginal condition in the third. This gradient can be projected beyond the ontogenetic endpoint of cantharoids by identifying characters halted during active elaboration at that time. The abdominal base-types of adult caraboids, for example, are different from those of adult cantharoids because they are more imaginal, and with this realization, hypermorphosis immediately becomes a suspect factor involved in their divergence. The cause of physogastry in lampyrids and other beetles (e.g., Meloe) becomes clear when character states of larviforms resigned at different levels of neoteny are compared. Phengodid females hold the highest level of neoteny known, and comparison of character states borne by available material indicates that this (larval) end of the gradient is primitive, and that females such as Photuris are the net result of an evolutionary process by which the fully imaginal condition is regained. The term "net" is used in accordance with substantiation that ontogenetically-based evolution is reversible.
4009962|The firefly holdings of the Fernando de Zayas Collection, located in Havana, Cuba, is reported as well as the updated taxonomic status of these species. This is an important collection to the study of the Lampyridae of Cuba and remains one of the major insect collections in Cuba. The lampyrid holdings in this collection include the holotype of Alecton x-nigra Zayas 1988, and one paratype each of Callopisma maestro Mutchler 1923 and Callopisma monticola Mutchler 1923. Data gathered from this collection verifies that the lampyrid genera Robopus and Callopisma are the most speciose. Literature based on outdated taxonomy put the genus Photinus as most speciose genus of firefly in Cuba.
4008105| A new species of Petrejoides is described from the mountains of western Guatemala above 2,400 meters altitude. Another species from southern Mexico and western Guatemala is transferred from Passalus to Pseudacanthus. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Petrejoides de las montaas del oeste de Guatemala arriba de 2,400 metros sobre el nivel del mar. Otra especie del sur de Mexico y el oeste de Guatemala se transfiere de Passalus a Pseudacanthus. 
3999587|Blepharida dorothea, a new species, is separated from B. rhois (Forster). The name B. rhois now applies to the species with striped elytra, while the elytra of specimens of B. dorothea are mottled. Blepharida dorothea occurs from New Jersey to Colorado and south to Florida and southern Arizona. The main range of B. rhois is more northerly.
4000062|Specimens of 56 world species of the tribe Phytobiini Thomson were studied. The genus Neophytobius Wagner (=Heterophytobius Wagner, nomen nudum; new synonymy) is validated, and Phytobius cavifrons (LeConte) is transferred to Neophytobius (new combination). The names Pelenomus Thomson, Paraphytobius Wagner, Nemophytobius Voss, and Mecopeltus Dietz are newly synonymized with Phytobius Schoenherr. Phytobius griseus (Blatchley) is newly synonymized with P. gracilipes (Dietz). A key to the New World genera is included.
4009576|Four species are recognized within the Agabus (Gaurodytes) brunneus group, A. brunneus (Fabricius), A. didymus (Olivier), A rufulus Fairmaire and A. ramblae new species, from the eastern Iberian peninsula and the Balearic Islands. Agabus brunneus, A. rufulus and A. ramblae form a complex of closely related species distinguished mainly by aedeagal characters. A key of the species of the A. brunneus groups is provided, as well as some information about the known distribution, habitat and ecology of A. ramblae.
4008524|Comparison of 48 days spent collecting adult Dytiscidae in bottle traps with an equal amount of time collecting them with a net showed that 73% of the species were more effectively captured with traps. Traps accounted for more than 89% of the Acilius, Agabetes, Agabus, Celina, Colymbetes, Copelatus, Dytiscus, Hydaticus, Laccornis, Matus, Neoscutopterus and Thermonectus collected in this comparison. Generally traps were more effective for capturing large beetles, while a net was more effective for capturing very small beetles. Swimming ability, horizontal swimming habits, nocturnal activity patterns, and accoustical communication are all believed to be factors that enhance the relative effectiveness of bottle traps.
41316644|The purpose of this study is to describe the differences in the mouthparts of three Mexican species of Oniticellini that make use of different trophic resources. Euoniticellus intermedius (Reiche) is a coprophage par excellence, Attavicinus monstrosus (Bates) is a specialist in dry particles, and Liatongus rhinocerulus (Bates), a saprophage, is sometimes observed in excrement and on small cadavers, but mainly on rotting mushrooms. The results show no substantial structural differences among the species studied, though for each one, particular characteristics are evident.
4009001|The subfamily Platydascillinae Pic from Southeast Asia is re-described. Five species in four genera are recognized: Platydascillus sumatranus Everts, Dascillocyphon minor Everts, and three new species in two new genera; Bispinatus, new genus (type species, Bispinatus vietnamensis, new species), and Remigera, new genus (type species, Remigera securiformis, new species) and Remigera spatulata, new species. Dascillocyphon major Everts is a new synonym of P. sumatranus and D. timorensis Pic is a new synonym of D. minor. Dascillocyphon minor is designated as type species of Dascillocyphon Everts. All five species are described and illustrated and their distributions and relationships are discussed. A list of the Byturidae of the world is provided.
4008804|Six of the species of Anthonomus Germar described in the Biologia Centrali Americana belong to the subgenus Anthomorphus Weise. Three of these, A. abdominalis Champion, A. alternans Champion and A. sulcipygus Champion, were previously recognized as belonging to Anthomorphus, but characters demonstrating that A. canaliculatus Champion, A. cyanipennis Champion and A. rodriguezi Champion also belong to the subgenus were overlooked until recently. Diagnostic characters of A. alternans, A. canaliculatus, A. cyanipennis and A. rodriguezi are described and illustrated, most for the first time. A lectotype is designated for A. cyanipennis.
4008664|The final larval instar of Zabrotes subfasciatus (Boh.) is described and illustrated using scanning electron micrographs. Discrepancies, particularly relating to smaller anatomical structures, are evident through the comparisons of this and previous descriptions. Discussions of the functional morphology of the decurved labral spines and the apodous condition are also furnished.
4009651|The five new species, Meibomeus dirli, M. jacki, M. juarez, M. kirki, and M. rodneyi, are described. The taxonomic relationships between the new species of Meibomeus Bridwell and named species are discussed. Valuable new taxonomic characters used are basal or apical metasternal spines in some species. Host plants are reported for the five new species and for the named species Meibomeus apicicornis (Pic), M. howdeni Kingsolver and Whitehead, M. mitchelli Kingsolver and Whitehead, M. panamensis Kingsolver and Whitehead, M. ptinoides (Sharp), and M. surrubresus (Pic). The hosts of all known species of Meibomeus are compiled. All hosts are in the Fabaceae, subfamily Papilionoideae. About 60% of the hosts are in the genus Desmodium Desv. Species in the genera Desmodium, Aeschynomene L., Lespedeza Michx., Indigofera L., and Coursetia DC. are reported to have their seeds fed upon by species of Meibomeus.
4009036|Hydraena dinosaurophila from Texas and Hydraena indiana from Indiana and Oklahoma are described as new to science. Hydraena marginicollis Kiesenwetter and Ochthebius spanglerorum Perkins are newly recorded from Texas. A lectotype is designated for Hydraena marginicollis Kiesenwetter. Gymnochthebius falli Perkins, 1980 is synonymized with Gymnochthebius fossatus (LeConte, 1855).
3999761|Significant range extensions are reported for Dineutus robertsi, Gyretes iricolor, Laccophilus schwarzi, Laccophilus undatus, Hydroporus dixianus, Celina contiger, Laccornis deltoides, Matus leechi, and Hoperius planatus. Information is included on the habitats of some species, and the distinguishing features of Celina contiger are noted.
4010024|Gennadota canadensis Casey is newly recorded from Nova Scotia, Canada, extending its known range by 500 km to the east. In Nova Scotia it has been recorded in both cave and non-cave environments. The taxonomic history of the genus is briefly recounted, and the bionomics of the species is discussed within the context of that of cave-inhabiting beetles. Its presence in the Maritime Provinces in noted a region where caves are still in an active phase of post-glacial reinvasion and re-colonization.
4009923| The courtship behavior of Meloe (Micromeloe) decorus and Sitaris muralis is described. From all courtship patterns described within the Meloinae fanning courtship of M. decorus differs quite remarkably. The differences to other subgenera within the genus Meloe are described. Their significance for the systematic position of M. decorus within its genus is emphasized and discussed. Courtship behavior of S. muralis is compared to courtship behavior of other species of Nemognathinae. /// Das Balzverhalten von Meloe (Micromeloe) decorus und Sitaris muralis wird beschrieben. Die Fchelbalz von M. decorus unterscheidet sich innerhalb der Meloinae auffallend von allen bisher bekannten Balzmustern. Die Unterschiede zu anderen Untergattungen innerhalb der Gattung Meloe werden aufgezeigt. Ihre Bedeutung fr die systematische Stellung von M. decorus innerhalb der Gattung Meloe wird hervorgehoben und diskutiert. Das Balzverhalten von S. muralis wird mit dem anderer Arten innerhalb der Nemognathinae verglichen. 
3999550|Vitavitus thulius Kissinger is described as a new genus and species from a unique specimen from Canada north of the Arctic Circle. The genus occurs as fossils in sediments of middle Pliocene to late Pleistocene age. The new genus is near Lepidophorus Kirby; both are assigned tentatively to the subfamily Hyperinae. Alophus Schoenherr is assigned to Leptopiinae (= Alophinae).
4009022|Osellia calabra Zanetti (type and only species of the genus) is shown to be a wingless species of Orochares Kraatz. The generic synonymy yields two new combinations: Orochares calaber (Zanetti) and Orochares calaber siculus (Zanetti). A revised diagnosis for the genus Orochares and a checklist of its six known species are given.
3999449|The second known specimen of C. bicostata Solier is recorded from Yagul, Oaxaca, Mexico, at an elevation of 5,500 ft., on July 7, 1970.
4007993|Chaudoir's ranking of Anatrichis and Oodinus as separate genera is reaffirmed through study of structural characteristics and geographical distributions. Species of Anatrichis share the synapomorphies of dilated mesotibiae and a pattern of differentiation of protarsi in male specimens which involves the first four tarsomeres. Species of Oodinus are characterized by conspicuous pits, of presently unknown function, on the mesepisternum. These pits are a uniquely derived trait among the oodines. Cladistic analysis shows that Anatrichis and Oodinus are each more closely related to different groups within the genus Oodes than they are to each other. Hypotheses employing separate origins of Anatrichis and Oodinus, vicariance, brought about by plate tectonics, and subsequent dispersal are employed to explain the known distribution of the two genera. These hypotheses make specific predictions which will be tested against results of phylogenetic analysis of species relationships.
4008188|Mature larvae of 12 species of Maryland hispine beetles are described for the first time. Three species are redescribed, and a larval key is provided for 16 species. Biological observations and discussions are presented, including new host records in a comprehensive adult and larval host list.
4008880| Larvae of three species of Trox from southern Europe are described and illustrated. Those of T. perlatus Goeze and T. hispidus Pontoppidan are redescribed and that of T. cribrum Gn is described for the first time. The former species was collected on the French mainland and the latter two on Corsica. Aspects of larval phylogeny are briefly discussed. 
3999397|As a part of a continuing revisionary series, four species of Isomira of eastern North America are redescribed with pertinent taxonomic notes and distributional data. This paper concludes the species of eastern North America so a key to species known to occur in that geographic area is provided.
4008247|Only 1 species of Passalidae is known to occur naturally in the U.S.: Odontotaenius disjunctus (Ill.) from the eastern deciduous forest. Previously unreported records of Passalus punctiger Lepeletier and Serville and P. punctatostriatus (Percheron) from Arizona (1908-9) are given, but no evidence of present U.S. populations of these species is known. P. punctatostriatus represents a new U.S. record. P. punctiger had been previously cited from Texas, but that record is doubtful. Mexican species near the U.S. border are noted. A key is given to larvae and adults of possible U.S. species. /// Se conoce solo 1 especie de Passalidae ocurriendo naturalmente en los E.U.A.: Odontotaenius disjunctus (Ill.) de los bosques caducifolios del este. Previas colectas no reportadas de Passalus punctiger Lepeletier y Serville y P. punctatostriatus (Percheron) de Arizona (1908-9) se presentan, pero no hay evidencia de poblaciones actuales de estas especies en los E.U.A. La cita de P. punctatostriatus es nueva para los E.U.A. Se ha citado previamente P. punctiger de Texas, pero la cita es dudosa. Se anotan especies mexicanas halladas cerca de la frontera estadounidense. Se presenta una clave para larvas y adultos de especies que posiblemente ocurran en los E.U.A.
4008370|Ips and Orthotomicus specimens in the Institut Royal des Sciences Natural de Belgique, Brussels, include apparent holotypes and syntypes of species described by W. J. Eichhoff that previously were reported to have been destroyed with the Hamburg Museum during World War II. This report reviews data for "types" of eight species and includes designations of a lectotype for Tomicus perturbatus Eichhoff.
4007955|A key for the 39 Neotropical Holotrochus species is provided. The genus Neotrochus Blackwelder is considered a synonym of Holotrochus. Included are 15 new species described herein: neotropicus (Peru), sigridae (Brazil), opacus (Brazil), pseudodurus (Brazil), nani (Brazil), amazonicus (Brazil), blackwelderi (Trinidad), hanagarthi (Peru), lineatus (Peru), milleri (Cocos Island), similis (Trinidad), schubarti (Brazil), inpai (Brazil), pumilus (Peru), and ingae (Brazil).
3999833|Attention is drawn to pioneering works on suprageneric classification by Latreille, Gyllenhal, and Leach, which have been overlooked often by coleopterists when citing the first use of family-group names. A list of all family-group names proposed for Coleoptera before 1816 is presented.
4008098|In field tests, traps baited with geraniol, 10 of its derivatives, or 3 aliphatic butyrates captured adult males of 4 genera and at least 5 species of wireworms. Agriotes sparsus LeConte and Athous lecontei (Cand.) were the dominant species. A. sparsus was attracted to geranyl butyrate, geranyl valerate, and geranyl isovalerate. A. lecontei was attracted to geraniol and most of its derivatives. The broad range of compounds that attracted only males indicates a general sensitivity to this class of compounds, some of which may prove to be potent attractants for other species.
4009752| The results of a study on the fauna of Cerambycidae of the tropical dry forest of "El Aguacero," Chiapas, Mexico are presented. Data were obtained during a year of monthly collections and records obtained during sporadic collections carried out mainly during the rainy season. A total of 203 species, representing 119 genera, 42 tribes and four subfamilies were recorded. Seventy-nine species were recorded for the first time for the state of Chiapas. The subfamilies with the greater numbers of species, genera and tribes were the Cerambycinae with 111, 66 and 22 and Lamiinae with 81, 45 and 16, respectively. The genera with the greatest numbers of species were Stenosphenus Haldeman, Sphaenothecus Dupont, Lepturges Bates and Phaea Newman with six each and Anelaphus Linsley, Psyrassa Pascoe, Neocompsa Martins and Acyphoderes Serville with five each. The largest number of species was recorded during June (101) and the least during March (two); the largest number of individuals was recorded during September and the least during February. Seasonally, 165 species were collected during the rainy season, 17 during the dry season and 21 during both. Six hundred twenty two individuals were collected during the rainy season and 249 during the dry season. The species abundance pattern showed few abundant species and many with few individuals (63% were represented by three or fewer individuals). The most abundant species were Stenosphenus cribripennis cribripennis Thomson (51 individuals), Essostrutha laeta (Newman) (45), Ironeus pulcher Bates (43), Ochraethes sp. near O. sommeri (Chevrolat) (38), Sphaenothecus toledoi Chemsak and Noguera (33), Sphaenothecus trilineatus Dupont (31), Ochraethes pollinosa Chevrolat (31) and Sphaenothecus maccartyi Chemsak and Noguera (30). The seasonal activity of most species as adults was restricted, with 141 species found only during one month and 37 during two months. The fauna of "El Aguacero" was compared with two other similar sites in Mexico, and is more similar to that of Chamela, Jalisco than to that of Huautla, Morelos; sharing 78 species with the first and only 41 with the second. /// Se presentan los resultados de un estudio sobre la fauna de cerambcidos del bosque tropical caducifolio de El Aguacero, Chiapas, Mxico. Los datos fueron obtenidos durante un ao de colectas mensuales y mediante registros obtenidos durante colectas espordicas realizadas durante la poca de lluvias principalmente. En total se registraron 203 especies, que representan 119 gneros, 42 tribus y cuatro subfamilias. Se registraron por primera vez para el estado de Chiapas 79 especies. Las subfamilias ms diversas fueron Cerambycinae con 111 especies, 66 gneros y 22 tribus y Lamiinae con 81, 45 y 16 respectivamente. Los gneros con mayor nmero de especies fueron Stenosphenus Haldeman, Sphaenothecus Dupont, Lepturges Bates y Phaea Newman con seis y Anelaphus Linsley, Psyrassa Pascoe, Neocompsa Martins y Acyphoderes Serville con cinco. La riqueza y abundancia vari en el tiempo; el mayor nmero de especies se registr en junio con 101 y el menor en marzo con dos. Estacionalmente, 165 especies se registraron solo en la poca de lluvias, 17 en la de secas y 21 en ambas. El mayor nmero de individuos se registr en septiembre y el menor en febrero. En la poca de lluvias se registraron 622 individuous y en la de secas 249. Las especies ms abundantes fueron Stenosphenus cribripennis cribripennis. Thomson (con 51 individuos), Essostrutha laeta (Newman) (45), Ironeus pulcher Bates (43), Ochraethes sp. aff. O. sommeri (Chevrolat) (38), Sphaenothecus toledoi Chemsak and Noguera (33), Sphaenothecus trilineatus Dupont (31), Ochraethes pollinosa Chevrolat (31) y Sphaenothecus maccartyi Chemsak and Noguera (30). El patrn de abundancia relativa de las especies mostr pocas especies con muchos individuos y muchas con pocos (63% estuvieron representadas por tres o menos individuos). La actividad de las especies como adultos fue muy restringida, 141 especies fueron registradas solo un mes y 37 dos meses. La fauna de "El Aguacero" es ms similar a la de Chamela, Jalisco, que a la de Huautla, Morelos; con la primera se comparten 78 especies y con la segunda 41. 
4008900| Characters diagnostic of the weevil genus Neomastix Dietz and of the 10 species in the genus are described and illustrated, and a key to the species is presented. Eight new species are described: N. cardinis (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Mxico, Nicaragua); N. idolum (Mxico); N. materia (Brazil); N. metaphora (Brazil); N. numerus (Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands); N. spatium (Mxico); N. tempus (Colombia); N. veritas (Cuba). Lectotypes are designated for Neomastix solidaginis Dietz and N. punctatulus Dietz. Neomastix adults have been collected on plants of several different families, but larval feeding sites are not known for any of the species. 
27571100|The species of the Oriental and Papuasian genus Cryptoxyleborus Schedl in the Scolytine tribe Xyleborini are reviewed. Two new species, C. cuneatus and C. mawdsleyi are described from Brunei Darussalam. The following new synonymy is proposed: Cryptoxyleborus oxyurus Schedl (=Cryptoxyleborus shoreae Browne syn.n.), Cryptoxyleborus vestigator (Schedl) (=Platypus goilalae Schedl syn.n.). The following new combinations are given: Cryptoxyleborus acutus (Schedl) comb.n., Cryptoxyleborus percuneolus (Schedl) comb.n., both from Xyleborus; Microperus nanus (Browne) comb.n. from Cryptoxyleborus. A lectotype is designated for C. percuneolus, and the previously unknown male is described. A key is given to 18 species currently included in the genus, and new distributional records for many species. All species of Cryptoxyleborus are ambrosia beetles associated with dead or dying trees of the family Dipterocarpaceae, but are not of significant economic importance.
4008352|A new genus, Pseudotrigonogya, is described in the tribe Mastogeniini (Buprestidae) with species from the West Indies and South America. A key is presented to separate the new genus from related genera. Three new species (P. ecuadorensis and P. obscurinegro from Ecuador and P. valdenebroi from Colombia) are described and Trigonogya insularis Fisher is moved to the new genus. Haplostethus LeConte is treated as a synonym of Mastogenius Solier.
40664407|Reichenbachia parkeri Carlton, new species is described based on three male specimens from a single Malaise trap in Cades Cove, Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The species differs from all other North American members of the genus in the form of the aedeagus. It is found sympatrically with Reichenbachia hardyi Park in an area where habitats favorable to members of the genus occur.
4009882| The necrophagous dung beetle Coprophanaeus telamon (Erichson 1847) buried decomposing hen eggs in the rain forest of Ecuador. We suppose that the volatiles 2-butanone, cresol, indole, skatole, and butyric acid are responsible for attracting Coprophanaeus because these components of dung odour attract dung beetles and are also present in rotten eggs. A number of them are also produced by bacterial spoilage of raw meat. Abandoned clutches, infertile eggs or eggs with dead embryos of ground-nesting birds may be used as a resource by dung beetles. /// El escarabajo Coprophanaeus telamon (Erichson 1847) enterr huevos de gallina enteros en el bosque humedo tropical del Ecuador. Supponemos que las substancias voltilas 2-butanone, cresol, indol, eskatol y cido butrico son responsables para atraer C. telamon porque stos componentes qumicos de olor de faeces atraen escarabajos que comen faeces y estn presentes en huevos en decomposicin. La descomposicin bacterial de came tambien produce algunos de ellos. De las aves que anidan en el suelo, huevos abandonados, infertiles o con pollos no eclosionados podran ser un recurso para escarabajos. 
4008144|Metaxyphloeus Thomas, a new genus of rostrate Neotropical Laemophloeinae, is described. Included species are: Metaxyphloeus germaini (Grouvelle) [new combination, type species], Metaxyphloeus zeus Thomas [new species], Metaxyphloeus vicinus (Grouvelle) [new combination]; Metaxyphloeus signatus (Sharp) [new combination]; and Metaxyphloeus texanus (Schaeffer) [new combination]. The included species are illustrated and a key is provided for their identification. Affinities of Metaxyphloeus are to the Laemophloeus genus group, which is defined, and a key to the included genera is provided. Charaphloeus Casey and Phloeipsius Casey are elevated from subgenus to genus; Laemophloeus salpingoides Grouvelle is designated type species of Rhinophloeus Sharp; and phylogenetic relationships within the group and among related taxa are discussed.
4008826|A new species of bembidiine carabid beetle, Bembidion palosverdes, is described from the Palos Verdes Peninsula, Los Angeles County, California (type locality: Point Vicente), based on museum specimens collected 27 years ago. This species is apparently restricted to the rocky intertidal habitat on the peninsula. It is tentatively placed in the laterale species group, with Bembidion laterale from coastal western Europe and North Africa, and is the only species of Bembidion in North America known to occur in the rocky intertidal habitat. Failure of recent efforts to find living representatives of this species at its only known localities prompts concern for its present status, as discussed in relation to pertinent conservation issues.
3999960|This article presents the Silphidae known to occur on Southern Vancouver Island, British Columbia. Represented are the tribes Lyrosomini (Pteroloma tenuicorne LeC.), Agyrtini (Pelatines latus Mann., Necrophilus hydrophiloides Mann., and Agyrtes longulus LeC.), Silphini (Silpha lapponica Hbst.), and Nicrophorini (Nicrophorus investigator Mann., N. nigritus Mann., N. guttulus Mots., N. marginatus F., and N. vespilloides defodiens Mann. and its aberrations conversator Walker, gaigei Hatch and walkeri Hatch).
4008952|The gross anatomy and histology of the digestive system and the male and female reproductive systems of the minute, fungus-feeding, North American, ciid beetle, Hadraule blaisdelli (Casey), are described and illustrated. Two types of glandular tissue with possible digestive functions are found near the buccal cavity. The very large mesenteron is filled with fungus tissue and spores. The six Malpighian tubules surround the rectal sac of the proctodaeum in a cryptonephridial arrangement. Each testis is composed of three sperm tubes, and two pairs of accessory glands are present in the male. Each ovary is composed of three telotrophic ovarioles.
40983304|Actium vestigialis Caterino and Chandler, new species, from Santa Catalina Island, California, is described. This new species is brachypterous, has strongly reduced eyes, and is only known to occur on this one island. The leaf litter fauna of California's Channel Islands is inadequately examined, and this discovery may indicate a significant fauna of endemic litter-associated insects.
4008493|Four new species of the genus Geostiba Thomson 1858: G. alticola, G. nubigena, G. bicarinata and G. nimbicola, all from high elevations in the Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, are described and illustrated. The known North American species of Geostiba are divided in two species groups; these groups are characterized and keys to their species are given. Four new synonymies are proposed: Sibiota Casey 1906, a junior synonym of Geostiba Thomson 1858; Sonomota Casey 1911 of Microdota Mulsant and Rey 1873 (subgenus of Atheta Thomson 1858); Sibiota impressula Casey 1906, a junior synonym of Geostiba circellaris (Gravenhorst 1806); and Ousipalia turpicola Casey 1910 of Ousipalia hesperica Casey 1910. New combinations are given for Leptusa fontana (Casey 1911) (from Geostiba) and for Atheta (Microdota) lippa (Casey 1911) (from Sonomota).
3999826|The following 2 species of Sciatrophes Blackburn (Scaphidiidae), both from Arizona, are described as new: S. flagellata (Pinaleno Mts., Chiricahua Mts., and Huachuca Mts.), and S. valida (Pinaleno Mts.). Baeocera irregularis Champion 1913, here transferred to Sciatrophes Blackburn, is reported from the United States for the first time.
4009182|The relationships of reproductive behavior and ovarian development in Cephalodesmius armiger Westwood were established. The reproductive cycle comprises nidification, sexual behavior and care of offspring. Each phase is related to a physiological ovarian stage. Histology of each phase is described.
4008101|Stips stali is a nocturnal eurychorine tenebrionid. In the central Namib Desert the species is confined to sandy substrates where it spends daylight hours buried 5-15 cm beneath the surface, emerges at sunset, and forages throughout the night. Marked individuals recaptured after 8 to 12 months had moved an average of 51 m. A continuously available food supply may have limited dispersal during the study period, but detailed behavioral observations show that Stips stali is a much less vagile species than the sympatric adesmiine species of Onymacris.
4000152|The larva of Cononotus bryanti Van Dyke is described and compared with larvae from related families of Heteromera. Larval characteristics suggest a very close relationship to the Palearctic genus Agnathus and to Pedilidae (Pedilus, but not Pergetus). It is proposed that Pedilidae should be considered a separate family from Anthicidae, based on larval characteristics. Cononotus and Agnathus would constitute the subfamily Cononotinae of Pedilidae.
4009070|Placonotus gladiator, new species, with unusual antennal modifications in the male, is described based on two specimens from Malaysia. Antennal modifications in the Laemophloeidae and other Coleoptera are discussed.
4010061|A new genus and species of the myrmecophilous supertribe Clavigeritae, Thysdariella fieldiana, from Madagascar is described. The genus belongs to the subtribe Thysdariina of the tribe Clavigerini. The key for all genera of Thysdariina is provided. The present status of higher systematics of Clavigeritae is briefly discussed.
4009223|Myrcinoides sarawakiensis, new species, is described and illustrated from Sarawak, Malaysia. The new species represents the second for the genus.
4009143|Heterocerus unituberculosus, new species, a peculiar horned heterocerid, and H. crossi, new species, both from Mexico are described and illustrated.
4008597|Nastella Kerremans is revised and now contains five species: the type-species, N. fairmairei Kerremans, and N. strandi Obenberger, both of which are proposed as synonyms under N. chalcodes (Wiedemann), and four additional species, N. hessei (Obenberger) (comb. nov. from Discoderes), N. virgo Obenberger, N. uniformis Obenberger and N. flammea, sp. nov. Paradorella Obenberger is resurrected from synonymy under Discoderes Chevrolat, revised and recognized as containing four species: P. capensis (Kerremans) (= P. capigena Obenberger, syn. nov.), P. strandi Obenberger, P. subtilis Obenberger and P. wiedemanni (Gory and Laporte). The genera and new species are fully described; previously described species are briefly redescribed. Lectotypes are designated for Discoderes hessei, Coroebus wiedemanni, Nastella uniformis and Buprestis chalcodes. The genera are separated in a diagnostic table; keys and illustrations are provided for all species of both genera.
4008903|Amniscus perplexus is a rare and hence little known cerambycid found in the stems of Baccharis halimifolia in South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Louisiana and Texas. It was evaluated as a candidate for the biological control of B. halimifolia in Australia. Observations on its life cycle indicated that it was univoltine with adults appearing in late spring. Larvae were found from midsummer onwards and it overwintered as this stage. Multiple choice host specificity tests conducted in Texas and in Brisbane, Australia, indicated that this species was very selective about plants suitable for oviposition and that larvae would not develop on any plant other than Baccharis. However, in cage experiments the adults fed on the green bark of a wide host range and for this reason A. perplexus was not released in Australia.
4009417|A new tribe, Podolasiini Howden, is proposed for two closely related melolonthine genera: Podolasia Harold and Podostena Howden, new genus. Major tribal characters are: size small (total length less than 10 mm); mouthparts greatly reduced, hidden under clypeus; clypeus elevated basally; antenna 8- or 9-segmented; antennal club 3-segmented, small, oval; abdominal sternites 2-5 connate medially; tarsal claws simple, slender, posterior claws equal; females flightless. Podolasia Harold includes nine species, of which four are new: P. lavignei Howden, new species, from San Luis Potosi, P. stillwellorum Howden, new species, from Texas, P. longipenis Howden, new species, from Durango, and P. rotundipenis Howden, new species, from Durango and Chihuahua. Podolasia saylori Howden is placed as a junior synonym of P. peninsularis Howden. Podostena Howden, new genus, includes the type species, Pt. bottimeri (Howden), and Pt. rileyi Howden, new species, from Texas, Pt. sleeperi Howden, new species, and Pt. litoralis Howden, new species, both from Baja California Sur. The first known female of a species in either genus, Podostena bottimeri, is described. All species of both genera are keyed and illustrated. Relationships within Podolasia and its out group, Podostena, are discussed and the geographic patterns are mapped.
4008072|The weevil Listronotus (=Hyperodes) cinnamomeus (Hustache) appeared to be host specific on frogbit, Limnobium stoloniferum (G. F. W. Meyer) Griseb. In the field, we collected it only from L. stoloniferum. In the laboratory, adults fed only on L. stoloniferum and slightly on 4 other test plants, among 22 plant species tested. The adults fed on the leaves and the larvae mined the leaves and pupated in the petiole. Populations reached 1 adult per 3 or 4 plants during the summer. The weevil Listronotus marginicollis (Hustache) appeared to be host specific on parrotfeather, Myriophyllum aquaticum (Velloso) Verde (=M. brasiliense). In the field, we collected it only from M. aquaticum. In the laboratory, adults fed heavily on M. aquaticum, moderately on L. stoloniferum, and slightly on 12 other test plants among 43 plant species tested. The adults fed on the leaves of M. aquaticum and often killed the terminal bud. The larvae tunnelled in the stem, both above and below the waterline; 79% of the stems were damaged in one area.
3999475|Descriptions are given for 20 known species and 5 new species of the genus Oligota Mannerheim (Col., Staphylinidae) occurring in the Caribbean region and adjacent land areas. A key for identification is provided. The 5 new species are O. haitiana, O. multicarinata, O. caribae, O. humboldti and O. barbadorum. Oligota guadeloupae is proposed as a new name for Oligota minutissima Bernhauer.
4009159|Liatongus monstrosus (Bates), previously considered as a rare or even an extinct species, was recently collected from localities in Jalisco State, Mexico. The information provided in this paper increases the previously known distribution and also the importance to develop strategies to preserve it and to determine the current state of this threatened species.
3999544|Macrorhoptus is excluded from the tribes with which it has previously been associated (Anthonomini, Bradybatini and Endaeini) by a combination of larval, pupal and adult characters. The genus is provisionally retained in Anthonominae without assignment to tribe. All species of Macrorhoptus for which biological information is available utilize malvaceous plants as hosts, completing larval development in the fruit capsules. The larval and pupal stages of the genus are illustrated for the first time.
40664410|We describe a new species in the genus Scarites Fabricius, S. stenops Bousquet and Skelley, from one specimen collected in Florida. The adult differs from those of other Nearctic species by the very small, flat eyes, the extensive pustulate area at the elytral base, and the markedly convex elytral interval 7 behind the humrus. Scarites texanus Chaudoir is here synonymized under S. subterraneus Fabricius, new synonymy, validating the synonymy proposed in an earlier unpublished work, and Scarites vicinus Chaudoir, previously considered a junior synonym of S. quadriceps Chaudoir, is revalidated [revised status]. We include an updated key to all known Scarites species found in North America, north of Mexico.
4008142|New described and figured taxa are: Parevander hovorei Giesbert from the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas and Mexican states of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, and San Luis Potosi; and Crossidius suturalis melanipennis Penrose from southern Texas. P. hovorei and the closely related P. xanthomelas (Guerin-Meneville) are compared and another possibly distinct population of Parevander is noted but not described.
4008863|Eight new species in the subfamily Cerambycinae are described from east-central Guatemala and Chiapas, Mexico, as follows: Eburia schusteri from Zacapa and Chiapas; Aneflus poriferus from Chiapas; Megapsyrassa testacea from Baja Verapaz, Jalapa, Zacapa and Chiapas; Megapsyrassa chiapaneca from Chiapas; Pachymerola wappesi from Zacapa, which is compared with the sympatric P. ruficollis ruficollis Giesbert; Oxycoleus piceus from Zacapa; Semanotus australis from El Progreso; and Rhodoleptus nigripennis from Baja Verapaz, Zacapa, and Chiapas. E. schusteri, M. testacea, O. piceus, and R. nigripennis are illustrated, and revised keys are provided for Megapsyrassa, Pachymerola and Rhodoleptus.
4009475|Nomenclatorial corrections are made for twenty-one cases of homonymy for Latin American Scydmaenidae (Coleoptera). Euconnus boavistensis O'Keefe, new name, for E. boavistae Franz, 1994; E. amazonas O'Keefe, new name, for E. beckianus Franz, 1994; E. ranchograndensis O'Keefe, new name, for E. scydmaenoides Franz, 1989; E. ranchoensis O'Keefe, new name, for E. ranchoi Franz, 1989; E. araguaensis O'Keefe, new name, for E. araguai Franz, 1989; E. paramaracayanus O'Keefe, new name, for E. maracayanus Franz, 1989; E. manaus O'Keefe, new name, for E. anophthalmus Franz, 1980; E. jamaicaensis O'Keefe, new name, for E. filicorum Franz, 1980; E. lasabejas O'Keefe, new name, for E. lanceolatus Franz, 1991; E. huijbregtsi O'Keefe, new name, for E. tenuicornis Franz, 1985; E. boliviensis O'Keefe, new name, for E. schauffusianus Franz, 1993; E. janauari O'Keefe, new name, for E. macrops Franz, 1980; E. vestitus Reitter and Croissandeau, 1890, new status, for E. globiceps Franz, 1980; E. hakgalensis O'Keefe, new name, for E. paludicola Franz, 1982; E. birgary O'Keefe, new name, for E. lothari Franz, 1974; E. mullaittivuanus O'Keefe, new name, for E. ludificans Franz, 1982; E. andranomandery O'Keefe, new name, for E. angustus Franz, 1986; E. heissi O'Keefe, new name, for E. abnormeantennatus Franz, 1987; E. imperfectus O'Keefe, new name, for E. incompletus Franz, 1977; E. kinabaluensis O'Keefe, new name, for E. fraudulentus Franz, 1992; and E. arthuri O'Keefe, new name, for E. pilosicollis (Lea), 1915 are proposed. Scydmaenus paranus Franz 1994 is considered to be the same species as S. paranus Franz 1993. These corrections are proposed here so they can be included in a catalog of New World Scydmaenidae.
4008691|Host specificity studies were conducted on the chrysomelid Ophraella communa LeSage, a candidate biological control agent for the weeds Ambrosia artemisiifolia L., Xanthium strumarium L. and Parthenium hysterophorus L. in Australia. In the laboratory, a multiple choice test indicated that sunflower, Helianthus annuus L., as well as the target weeds might be a suitable host for this insect. In a second experiment O. communa was reared for one generation on H. annuus. Although O. communa has not been recorded from sunflower in the field, the laboratory evidence was sufficient to reject it from further consideration as a biological control agent. Field studies also indicated that the host range of this insect was wider than previously reported; A. psilostachya DC., A. confertiflora DC., A. cumanensis von Humbolt, and Iva axillaris Persh are reported as natural hosts for O. communa.
4010013| The morphology and life history of Mylabris phalerata Pallas (Coleoptera: Meloidae) were observed. The effect of temperature on the duration of immature stages of M. phalerata reared at 18, 22, 25, 28, 31, and 34C was determined. The adaptable temperature for artificial mass rearing was 28C. Lower developmental thresholds were estimated to be 6.38, 6.29, 7.72, 7.08, 5.25, 17.62, and 5.58C for egg, larval instars L1, L2, L3, L4, L5 and pupa, respectively, and the thermal constant was 1,715.59 degree-days for total immature stages, using the linear model. Based on the developmental cycle of M. phalerata, its known geographic distribution, and temperature data, diapause is attributed to the overwintering fifth-instar larva. 
3999574|Previously the number of generations per year and adult coloration of Physonota helianthi (Randall) have been recorded erroneously or incompletely. It is univoltine in South Dakota and overwinters as an adult. It goes through 3 color changes: 1) dingy white (teneral adult), 2) black-and-white (intermediate phase of about 3 weeks), and 3) iridescent green (mature adult). The intermediate phase appeared to be correlated with feeding on the host (normally Helianthus grosseserratus Martens) rather than surroundings or disturbance.
40983329|Symptoms of wood boring activity and Cerambycidae larvae in living oak trees (Quercus L. spp.) were discovered in October 2006 in the Sierra Fria, Aguascalientes, Mexico. Prompted by this finding, we conducted a field study to determine the wood borer species and its host preference and geographical distribution, and to record biological and ecological data. Adult specimens were obtained by caging infested bole samples in laboratory conditions as well as by installing screen emergence cages on infested trees in several locations in the Sierra Fria. Twenty-nine line transects were sampled in search of wood boring symptoms in living oak trees. Forty adult specimens were obtained during the 32-month study. Based on morphology and behavior, the insect was identified as Crioprosopus magnificus LeConte (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae), a new geographical record for this species. The main host for this insect is Quercus potosina Trel, but it also occasionally attacks Quercus grsea Liemb. and Quercus eduardii Trel. Wood boring symptoms attributed to magnificus were found along the Sierra Fria. Beetle emergence was confirmed in four locations. Observations on insect mating, longevity and oviposition are provided. En octubre de 2006, se descubrieron sntomas de actividad de un barrenador de madera y larvas de Cerambycidae en encinos vivos (Quercus L. spp.) en la Sierra Fra, Aguascalientes, Mxico. Impulsados por este hallazgo, realizamos un estudio de campo para determinar la especie de barrenador de madera, su preferencia de hospederos, y su distribucin geogrfica, y para registrar datos biolgicos y ecolgicos sobre ella. Se obtuvieron especmenes adultos encerrando trozas infestadas dentro de jaulas en condiciones de laboratorio, as como mediante la instalacin de jaulas de emergencia, elaboradas con malla, sobre rboles infestados en varias localidades de la Sierra Fra. Se muestrearon 29 transectos de lnea en bsqueda de sntomas de barrenacin en encinos vivos. Se obtuvieron 40 especmenes adultos durante el periodo de estudio, el cual tuvo una duracin de 32 meses. Con base en la morfologa y conducta, el insecto fue determinado como Crioprosopus magnificus LeConte (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae), siendo un nuevo registro geogrfico para la especie. El hospedero principal de este insecto fue Quercus potosina Trel., pero ocasionalmente el insecto ataca a Quercus grisea Liemb. y Quercus eduardii Trel. Se encontraron sntomas de barrenacin de madera atribuidos a este insecto a lo largo de la Sierra Fra. La emergencia de escarabajos se confirm en cuatro localidades. Se proporcionan observaciones sobre el apareamiento, la longevidad, y la oviposicin.
4008416|Two new species, Aleochara (Calochara) baranowskii and A. (Ca.) sequoia from California, are described and illustrated. The following are the new country, provincial or state records for 9 other species of Aleochara: A. (Coprochara) notula Erichson (Arkansas), A. (Xenochara) fumata Gravenhorst (Arkansas), A. (X.) inexspectata Klimaszewski (Quebec), A. (Calochara) speculicollis Bernhauer (Arkansas), A. (Ca.) villosa Mannerheim (Quebec), A. (A.) gracilicornis Bernhauer (Arkansas), A. (A.) lustrica Say (Tobago), A. (A.) tahoensis Casey (Arkansas) and A. (A.) rufobrunnea Klimaszewski (Arkansas). Whenever available, new collection data are also discussed.
4009524|Ideorhipistena occipitalis, new genus, new species, from Bismarck Archipelago (Papua-New Guinea), is described and included in the family Mordellidae. Though definitely fitting within the ground plan of Mordellidae, it superficially resembles Rhipistena Sharp (Rhipiphoridae, subfam. Pelecotominae) as a result of convergence. Ideorhipistena displays characters so far unknown in Mordellidae, including quite protruding occipital margin, strongly developed temples, long prothoracic neck, narrow elytral epipleura, pronotum without anterior and posterior angles, strongly protruding at its hind margin. These justify its position as a distinct genus, in the key to world genera of the tribe Mordellini.
4009827| The phenology of Fulcidax monstrosa (F.) on its host plant Byrsonima sericea DC. was studied from November 2000 to June 2003 at the Restinga de Jurubatiba National Park, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. During this period, observations on the biology and behavior of the species were also conducted in the field and in laboratory. The female lays single eggs on young stems of its host plant and covers them with feces, building an excremental shell. The hatched larva remains within it and adds more of its own feces to the case as it grows. After a maximum of four months, the larva pupates within the case, which remains closed for another four months before adult emergence. Diapause seems to occur in the adult stage inside the pupal case before emergence. Fulcidax monstrosa is a univoltine species and showed a highly seasonal distribution along the years for all stages of development. Climatic factors as well as resource availability are suggested to influence the species seasonality. /// A fenologia da populao de Fulcidax monstrosa (Fabricius) em sua planta hospedeira Byrsonima sericea DC. foi estudada de novembro de 2000 a junho de 2003 no Parque Nacional da Restinga de Jurubatiba, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. Durante este perodo, tambm foram feitas observaes sobre a biologia e o comportamento da espcie. A fmea coloca um nico ovo de cada vez em ramos jovens da planta hospedeira e o cobre com suas fezes, construindo um escudo de excrementos. A larva eclodida permanece nele, adicionando mais camadas de suas prprias fezes ao seu casulo  medida que cresce. Aps no mximo quatro meses, a larva empupa no casulo, que permanece fechado por mais quatro meses at a emergncia do adulto. Parece ocorrer diapausa dos adultos antes de sua emergncia, enquanto ainda residem no casulo pupal. Fulcidax monstrosa  uma espcie univoltina e apresentou uma distribuio altamente sazonal ao longo dos anos para todos os estgios de desenvolvimento. Fatores climticos assim como disponibilidade de recurso so sugeridos para explicar a sazonalidade da espcie. 
4009833|Timbaraba new genus, and Timbaraba dispar new species (Torneutini: Bothriospilina) are described from Venezuela (Maracaibo). Some taxonomic notes on Xenambyx lansbergei (Thomson) are also included. Xenambyx lansbergei lansbergei (Thomson) and X. lansbergei laticauda Bates are considered intraspecific variations.
4009926| Eight genera and nine species (five are new) are included in a key to the Apioninae Schoenherr occurring in Chile. The key includes five new genera in addition to Chilapion Kissinger, Noterapion Kissinger (species treated in separate paper), and Exapion Bedel. Each new genus listed is followed by the type species and included species; the type locality for each species is listed as locality, province/region, and country. Hecyrapion new genus: type species H. novercale new species (37 km N Talca, Maule, Chile) and Apion anisorhynchum Gerstaecker, 1854 (Buenos Aires, Argentina). Rhamnapion new genus: type species Apion pachymerum Philippi and Philippi, 1864 (Fundo San Juan, Valdivia, Chile) and A. humerale Philippi and Philippi, 1864 (Fundo San Juan, Valdivia, Chile). Acarapion new genus: type species A. ferruginosum new species (El Clarillo, Santiago, Chile) and Apion nigrosuturatum Bguin-Billecocq, 1909 (Tucumn Province, Argentina). Pystapion new genus with type species P. erotema new species (Lota, Biobo, Chile). Mythapion new genus with type species M. trifolianum new species (18 km E San Carlos, uble, Biobo, Chile); M. adesmiae n. sp. (Chile Chico, Lago B. Aires, Aisn, Chile); Apion rufonigrum Bguin-Billecocq, 1909 (Buenos Aires Province, Argentina) and A. simplex Bguin-Billecocq, 1909 (Buenos Aires Province, Argentina). Lectotypes are designated for Apion pachymerum Philippi and Philippi and A. humerale Philippi and Philippi. Circapion Kissinger does not occur in Chile but in the tropical cloud forest on the eastern side of the Andes. 
3999667|The carabid collection of Max Liebke was partially destroyed in World War II. That which survived was fragmented and is now found in several museums. An annotated list of Liebke's type specimens, housed in the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History, is provided. For the most part, Liebke used syntypes for his descriptions. These are selected as lectotypes where appropriate in the USNM.
4009444|The beetle family Brachypsectridae is a poorly known monotypic taxon consisting of the single genus Brachypsectra, itself composed of only three currently recognized species. We report the first collection of the adult Texas beetle Brachypsectra fulva LeConte since its original description, and we report the discovery of its larva on loblolly pine. The literature of the entire genus is reviewed.
4009748|Two species of athetine rove beetles are recorded from Inaccessible Island, in the Tristan da Cunha group of islands in the South Atlantic for the first time. One species, Halobrecta flavipes Thomson, represents a new introduction possibly from the Palearctic region, and the other species, Atheta (Xenota) pseudoinsulana Klimaszewski, new species, is of an undetermined origin. The latter belongs to the Laticollis group of species that are broadly distributed and are known to occur in the Palearctic, Nearctic, Afrotropical, and Oriental regions as well as some Atlantic Islands. The lectotype is designated for Homalota dilutipennis Motschulsky [= Atheta dilutipennis (Motschulsky)].
4009802|Plateros milleri, new species, is described from southeastern Arizona and is placed in the sanguinicollis group on the basis of the orange-red coloration of the pronotum and the twisted structure of the aedeagus. Aedeagal characters are utilized to distinguish this species from its closely related congeners. Figures of the aedeagus and a habitus photograph are presented.
4008207|Three new species of neotropical Zygopinae are described: Cylindrocopturinus hainesi from Mexico, Copturus mimeticus from Brasil, and Copturus paschalis from Costa Rica. The first two appear to mimic ants of the genus Zacryptocerus and the last one mimics the ant Camponotus sericeiventris. Relationships of Cylindrocopturinus are discussed, and a brief summary given of other beetles mimetic of Camponotus sericeiventris.
4007886|The habitat of Bembidion (Pseudoperyphus) rufotinctum Chaudoir is described. New records from Vermont and New Hampshire are listed, and the species is recorded from Virginia for the first time. The species was previously known only from single localities in Vermont and Massachusetts.
4008100|Specimens of Dromius piceus Dejean were collected in western lower Michigan, 1975-1977. Adults, larvae, and pupae were closely associated with trees, and D. piceus is therefore an arboreal carabid species. Adults are active nocturnal fliers but hide under bark scales during the day. The description of D. piceus larvae draws attention to "u"-shaped ecdysial sutures of the first instars; 2nd and 3rd instars have "v"-shaped sutures. The "u"-shaped sutures, also characteristic of larvae of two species of calleidine Lebiini, appear to be useful for identifying first instars of the subtribes Calleidina and Dromiina. This similarity is evidence for close relationship between these two subtribes.
4008830| On the basis of the study of specimens from several museums, three species are recorded as new to the Hawaiian Islands [Bacanius (Muellerister) rombophorus (Aub), Bacanius (Gomyister) dentrecasteauxi Gomy and Platylomalus gardineri Scott] and some new Hawaiian localities are given for two other species [Acritus komai Lewis and Abraeomorphus atomarius (Sharp)]. 
4008042|Phanerota fasciata (Say) and P. dissimilis (Erichson) differ chiefly in sculpture of the dorsal surface of the head and in ground color. However, lack of any discernible difference in structure of the male copulatory organs has led some workers to question species status. These two forms have been found together on the same mushroom in 12 of 71 collections. However, in those collections in which both are present, one form is almost always represented by far more individuals than the other. In addition, P. fasciata has been most commonly collected on specimens of the Russulaceae while P. dissimilis has been collected in large numbers only on Omphalotus olearius and Pleurotus species. Wide separation of preferred hosts, unlikely production of ecophenotypes, and lack of intermediates between the two forms suggest that these 2 forms of Phanerota are specifically distinct. Separation by breeding on different hosts is a possible premating isolating mechanism.
4009200|The endangered American burying beetle, Nicrophorus americanus Olivier, was last documented in South Dakota in 1945. Since its name was placed on the list of federally endangered species in 1989, numerous surveys conducted in the historical range of the species in South Dakota failed to detect the species. However, using baited pitfall traps and black lights in three southecentral South Dakota counties during August 1995, we collected specimens of 13 species of Silphidae, including 41 specimens of N. americanus.
4009955| The trechine carabid species Iberotrechus bolivari (Jeannel) was thought to be a troglobite confined to the type locality (Cueva del Pis). Discovery of epigeal populations in the Cantabrian valleys of the Pas and Pisuea river basins and in nearby caves have enlarged the geographical range of this species to an additional three caves of the valleys of the Pisuea, Besaya and Asn river. New data on the biology and way of life of the species show that it is markedly hygrophilous, lucifugous and epigeal: habits that enable permit its occasional establishment in the underground environment are confirmed. /// El trquido Iberotrechus bolivari (Jeannel) se pensaba que era un troglobionte confinado a la Cueva del Pis (localidad tpica). Se ampla el rango geogrfico de esta especie con el descubrimiento de poblaciones epigeas en las cuencas hidrogrficas de los valles cantbricos del Pas y del Pisuea, as como el hallazgo de nuevas poblaciones hipogeas asentadas en cuevas cercanas de los valles del Pisuea, Besaya y Asn. Los nuevos datos sobre la biologa y estilo de vida de esta especie, muestran que I. bolivari es epigeo y notablemente higrfilo y lucfugo, hbitos que permiten su establecimiento ocasional en ambientes subterrneos. 
4000035|The Mexican and Central American species of the genus Obrium Dejean are reviewed. A key to the 24 known species is presented and new distributional records are listed. Also included are diagrammatic representations of typical elytral patterns of most of the maculate species. New species are described as follows: O. giesberti, Baja California; O. batesi, Mexico; O. balteatum, Mexico; O. xanthum, Mexico; O. dimidiatum, Mexico; O. costaricum, Costa Rica; and O. planicolle, Mexico.
4007897|The New World laemophloeine genus Deinophloeus Sharp is redescribed and a key to and illustrations of the species are provided. D. ducalis Sharp is designated as type-species; other included species are: D. sinuatus Sharp, D. impressifrons (Schaeffer) [n. comb.], D. sheilae Thomas [n. sp.], and D. hirsutus Thomas [n. sp.].
27571146|The sutural margins of the elytra of adult beetles are in the form of a 'tongue and groove' joint and are bilaterally asymmetrical. Species in Haliplidae have unequal numbers of individuals with the tongue on the left (sinistral) and right (dextral) elytron. This implies that the direction of asymmetry is inherited even though the asymmetry appears to be generated when the teneral adult first closes its elytra. The species in Brychius Thomson and Peltodytes Rgimbart include predominantly sinistral individuals. Haliplus s.str., Neohaliplus Netolitzky and probably Haliplidius Guignot plus H. (Liaphlus) laminatus (Schaller) and H. (Paraliaphlus) borealis LeConte; and a dextral group including the remaining species in the subgenera Liaphlus Guignot and Paraliaphlus Guignot. These results support splitting Haliplus into two genera and the reassignment of H. laminatus and H. borealis to Haliplus s.str. Species from nine other families were examined as out-groups; hydradephagan species are dominantly dextral while most geadephagan species are antisymmetric, including equal numbers of sinistral and dextral individuals.
4009086|The first instar larvae of Meloe (Treiodous) afer Bland, and M. (Meloe) occultus Pinto and Selander are described and compared to other members of their subgenus. Antennal segment II and its associated sensory organ are important in the systematics of the genus Meloe. SEM study has clarified the structure of these features and corrects certain previous misconceptions.
4008819|New state records are provided for nine species of the genus Aleochara Gravenhorst from the Nearctic and Neotropical regions, with additional distributional records for seven species. The following state records are new: Aleochara bimaculata Gravenhorst (new to Oklahoma, USA); A. verna Say (new to Oklahoma, USA); A. suffusa (Casey) (new to Idaho, USA); A. taeniata Erichson (new to Chiapas, Mexico); A. lanuginosa Gravenhorst (new to New Hampshire and North Carolina, USA); A. speculicollis Bernhauer (new to Oklahoma, USA and Oaxaca, Mexico); A. villosa Mannerheim (new to Oklahoma, USA); A. rubripennis (Casey) (new to New Hampshire, USA); and A. curtula (Goeze) (new to New Hampshire, USA).
3999563|The life history and habits of Endalus celatus Burke on Marsilea mucronata A. Br. in Texas are discussed. Eggs are deposited in the sporocarps of this plant, with the developing larvae feeding on the spores. Pupation occurs in the larval feeding cavity. The weevil larvae are parasitized by Trimeromicrus sp. (Pteromalidae) and Bracon punctatus (Mues.) (Braconidae). Photographs are provided for the adult, larval, and pupal stages of the weevil and the host plant.
4009328|Eleodes tricostatus (Say) was discovered in oak and pine barrens in west central Wisconsin. This represents the first record of a species of Eleodes Eschscholtz east of the Mississippi River. Our observations indicate that E. tricostatus (Say) adults require a delicate balance of open habitat with exposed sandy soils in close proximity to shrub or tree cover making them sensitive to management activities and weather-related effects that alter vegetation.
27571067|A new genus and species of flea beetle, Yaminia gmelini Prathapan and Konstantinov, from southern India, is described and illustrated with comparative notes and host plant information.
3999992|Original information on larval habitats and insect associates is presented for 15 species of cerambycids. Associates include Hymenoptera (Braconidae, Ichneumonidae, Eurytomidae, Pteromalidae, Eupelmidae), Coleoptera (Elateridae), and Neuroptera (Raphidiidae). Coniferous hosts are cited for Plectrura spinicauda.
4010017| Phoenicus sanguinipennis was described by Lacordaire in 1869 based on one male specimen of unknown origin. We rediscovered this species 135 years later in the Punta Cana region in La Altagraca Province of eastern Dominican Republic (1830.477N, 6822.499W). Twentyseven specimens were collected at lights and on dead Maclura tinctoria (Linnaeus) D. Don ex Steudel (Moraceae). We provide a thorough description of the species and the previously unknown female, and a discussion of the previous and current knowledge of the species. 
4010041| The genus Ancistronycha Mrkel is reviewed. Atalantycha, new genus, is described. Ancistronycha rufidens Marseul is transferred to Cantharomorphus Fiori as Cantharomorphus rufidens (Marseul), new combination. Ancistronycha bilineata (Say), A. dentigera (Leconte) and A. neglecta (Fall) are transferred to Atalantycha as Atalantycha bilineata (Say), new combination, Atalantycha dentigera (Leconte), new combination, and Atalantycha neglecta (Fall), new combination. Ancistronycha taygetana Pic, new synonym, is synonymized with Ancistronycha occipitalis (Rosenhauer). Keys to the species of Ancistronycha and Atalantycha are provided. 
4008053| The first instar larva of Epicauta funesta (Chevrolat) is described from progeny of a female from Chiapas, Mexico. This is the first known larva of a species of the Funesta Group. On the basis of larval anatomy E. funesta is more closely related phenetically and, presumably, phylogenetically to E. uniforma Werner, E. leoni Dugs, and E. bipunctata Werner, of the Uniforma Group, than is E. niveolineata (Haag-Rutenberg), a fourth species currently assigned to that group. 
29739203|Beetles in the genus Acmaeodera were collected in southeastern Alberta, Canada. These did not fit the descriptions of the species reported to occur. Comparisons of structural characters and geographic ranges of species of several Acmaeodera species, A. diffusa Barr, A. idahoensis Barr, A. pulchella (Herbst), A. mixta LeConte, and A. immaculata Horn revealed that only A. immaculata is represented in Alberta, which represents a new record for Canada.
3999704|A new subspecies of Calosoma cicatricosum, C. c. balli, is described from MEXICO, State of Mexico; the nominotypical form is known only from Mexico, D. F. and immediate vicinity.
27571059|Three new species of the weevil genus Achia Champion are described: A. urvilleae Clark and Burke from the state of Santa Catarina, Brazil and Misiones Province, Argentina; A. uniformis Clark and Burke from Bolivia; and A. boliviana Clark and Burke from Bolivia and Salta and Santiago del Estero provinces, Argentina. Keys and illustrations to facilitate identification of the species are provided. New host plant records for these and other species of Achia include: Urvillea ulmacea Kunth for A. urvilleae; Urvillea chacoensis Hunz. for A. boliviana; Serjania laruotteana Cambess for A. ancile Burke; and Serjania fuscifolia Radlk. for A. affinis Hustache. The genus Achia is apparently most closely related to Cissoanthonomus Hustache and Cionopsis Champion. These three genera have the head constricted behind the eyes, profemora greatly enlarged, and their known hosts are plants of the family Sapindaceae.
4009354| Although most Scarabaeidae are detritivorous, the biology of some species is still largely unknown, and some of these species may be myrmecophilous. The aim of the present paper is to present new data on myrmecophily, regarding the scarabaeids associated with attine ant nests. Two areas in Minas Gerais State, Brazil, were surveyed for the association, and ten species of Scarabaeidae were collected. From these at least one has been recorded before as myrmecophilous, Ontherus lobifrons Gnier. The other nine species were: Holocephalus eridanus (Olivier), three unidentified Ateuchus Weber (one possibly A. myrmecophilus [Boucomont], already cited in literature from attine nests), an unidentified Canthidium Erichson, Dendropaemon denticolle Felsche, Dendropaemon ganglbaueri Felsche, Tetramereia convexa (Harold) and Canthon virens Mannerheim. Considering the data, it is suspected that many rare or poorly known species of Scarabaeidae can be myrmecophilous, and this interaction is more frequent than it was thought. /// Muitas espcies de Scarabaeidae tm sua biologia pouco ou nada conhecida, e algumas dessas espcies so provavelmente mirmecfilas. O objetivo do presente estudo  apresentar novos dados sobre a relao de algumas espcies de Scarabaeidae com ninhos de formigas da tribo Attini. Foram amostradas duas reas do estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil, e foram coletadas dez espcies de Scarabaeidae associadas a ninhos de Attini. Dessas espcies pelo menos uma estava previamente registrada como mirmecfila, Ontherus lobifrons Gnier. As outras nove espcies so: Holocephalus eridanus (Olivier), trs Ateuchus Weber no identificados (um possivelmente A. myrmecophilus [Boucomont], j citado de ninhos de Attini), um Canthidium Erichson no identificado, Dendropaemon denticolle Felsche, Dendropaemon ganglbaueri Felsche, Tetramereia convexa (Harold) e Canthon virens Mannerheim. Considerando os dados, suspeita-se que muitas espcies de Scarabaeidae consideradas raras ou pouco conhecidas podem ser mirmecfilas, e essa interao  mais freqente que parece. 
4008955|Three species in two genera are recognized for the family Biphyllidae in America, north of Mexico: Diplocoelus brunneus LeConte, D. rudis Le Conte, and Anchorius lineatus Casey. One species, Diplocoelus angusticollis Horn, is reduced to synonymy with D. brunneus and another, Diplocoelus philothermoides Reitter, is reduced to synonymy with D. rudis. A diagnostic key to species is provided. All species are described and illustrated, and their distributions and relationships are discussed.
4008478|The role of the lesser mealworm, Alphitobius diaperinus (Panzer), as a predator of house fly Musca domestica L., maggots and puparia in poultry houses is discussed. Late instar larval and adult A. diaperinus fed on house fly maggots when isolated together in glass vials. Lesser mealworm adults and middle instar larvae significantly reduced house fly emergence from apparatus which simulated the manure pit environment of a high rise caged layer egg house.
4008950| Haptoderus (Iberoderus) subiasi is described from the Sierra de Ancares (northwestern Iberian Peninsula). Its affinities with H. nemoralis (Graells 1851), H. cantabricus Schaufuss 1862, and H. procerulus (Heyden 1880) are analyzed. Female genitalia (genital shield and spermathecal complex) are described and compared with those of other species of the genus. Finally, the possible colonization route of the ancestors of H. subiasi to the Macizo Galaico-Duraico is indicated. /// Se describe Haptoderus (Iberoderus) subiasi de la Sierra de Ancares (Noroeste de la Pennsula Ibrica). Se analizan sus afinidades con las especies prximas, H. nemoralis (Graells 1851), H. cantabricus Schaufuss 1862, y H. procerulus (Heyden 1880). Se aporta la descripcin de la genitalia femenina (armadura genital y complejo espermatecal) y se compara con la de otras especies del gnero. Por ltimo, se indica la posible va de colonizacin que permiti a H. subiasi asentarse en el Macizo Galaico-Duraico. 
3999804|A taxonomic revision indicates that Pachybrachis nigricornis (Say) is a polymorphic species (morphologically as well as chromatically). This species includes 3 polytopic subspecies, P. n. nigricornis, P. n. difficilis Fall, and P. n. autolycus Fall; and one monotopic subspecies, P. n. carbonarius Fall. The subspecies differ most notably by color characters. Stepwise discriminant analysis indicates that the subspecies are taxonomically distinct when segregated by a character index. Pigmentation in P. n. autolycus is light and its distribution corresponds with dry climates, which facts agree with those of P. othonus sioux Balsbaugh, a sibling species of P. n. autolycus. P. n. nigricornis is dark and shiny, but it too occurs in arid areas. Fall's Group D key to vittate species has been modified to reflect the new nomenclature changes and to include the black subspecies of P. nigricornis.
4009586| Description of structures of the mature larva of Glareadessus stocki Wewalka and Bistrm is presented including detailed chaetotaxal and porotaxal analyses. This stygobiontic bidessine species is characterized by slightly reduced size of stemmata, reduced pigmentation, and frontoclypeal denticles. Morphological comparisons are made with other known Bidessini larvae. 
4009340|A new species of Bryothinusa Casey is described as B. chengae, Type locality: Carp Island Pier, Palau, Caroline Islands). Types and paratypes of the new species are designated. Illustrations of diagnostic features are provided. The differences between members of B. chengae Ahn and B. papuensis Haghebaert are presented.
3999585|A summary is presented of distributional, synonymical, and ecological data on the two species of the New World genus Scyphophorus, with distinguishing characters of the genus and species, and the first known illustrations of the genitalia.
4009158|The egg, third instar larva, and pupa of Erichsonius alumnus Frank and Erichsonius pusio (Horn) and the first and second instar larvae of E. pusio are described. Both adults and larvae live in moist organic debris along streams and ponds. Erichsonius pusio appears to have a univoltine life cycle.
4008753| The Afrotropical genera belonging to the Meliboeus Deyrolle group are briefly discussed. Xenomerius umtali and Bourgoinia obscurivirida are described as new. Annotated checklists for the species of Melibaeopsis Kerremans and Xenomerius Obenberger are given. Meliboeus ornatus Kerremans is reduced to junior synonymy under M. punctatus Pringuey. Coroebus camerunicus Obenberger and Sambus wittei Thry are transferred to Nickerleola Obenberger. Pseudagrilus peringueyi, nom. nov., is proposed for Coroebus scintillans Pringuey. 
4008606|Phloeosinus kinabaluensis and P. phyllocladus are described from high altitudes on Mount Kinabalu, Borneo. Notes on the generic name Olonthogaster Motschulsky are included.
4008166|A system is proposed for naming setae and discussing setal patterns among aleocharine larvae. Terms are provided for characteristic setae and other cuticular sensory structures. Principles and rules are suggested for applying this system to other aleocharine larvae. The chaetotaxic system is based on the setal patterns present on larvae of Atheta coriaria Kraatz, which has a relatively generalized chaetotaxy. The condition found in most other aleocharine larvae can be interpreted as loss or gain from the athetine pattern. Chaetotaxy of some hypertrichous and highly specialized aleocharine larvae cannot be interpreted within this system and will require an independent chaetotaxic system. Larvae of A. coriaria are described, and illustrations of habitus and structural features are provided.
4008122|The North American genus Aphonus LeConte is reviewed. Six species are recognized. A new species from Texas, U.S.A., Aphonus texanus, is described and illustrated. A key to the species and illustrations of the genitalia are presented.
4542997|Five new species of longhorned beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) from the Dominican Republic are diagnosed, described, and illustrated: Ataxia hovorei, Atimiola rickstanleyi, Drycothaea indistincta, Eburia pseudostigma, and Hormathus giesberti. In addition, Hormathus Gahan 1890 is transferred from Tillomorphini Lacordaire into Ibidionini Thomson, Division V; Trinoplon Zayas 1975 is a new synonym of Hormathus; and Hormathus bicolor (Zayas 1975) is a new combination. A key to the three species of Hormathus is provided.
4008602| The Palearctic carabid beetle Broscus cephalotes is reported for the first time for North America. Several populations of the species have been found in 1987 in Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia in sand dunes along the coast. The species is well established in the area, though apparently only recently. Generic and specific characteristics are given, and the genus is inserted in Lindroth's (1969) key to the genera of Canadian-Alaskan Carabidae. The habitat and biology of the species are briefly discussed. /// Les auteurs rapportent la prsence du carabique palarctique Broscus cephalotes pour la premire fois en Amrique du Nord. Plusieurs populations de cette espce ont t dcouvertes en 1987  l'Ile du Prince Edouard et en Nouvelle-Ecosse, Provinces canadiennes de l'Atlantique, sur les dunes sablonneuses du littoral. Bien que rcent, l'tablissement de l'espce semble dfinitif dans cette rgion. Les auteurs prsentent les caractristiques du genre et de l'espce et insrent le genre dans le tableau de dtermination de Lindroth (1969) des genres de Carabidae du Canada et de l'Alaska. Les auteurs discutent brivement de l'habitat et de la biologie de l'espce. 
4008920|A survey of the extant carabid fauna of subarctic Manitoba was conducted for the purpose of determining species compositions and analyzing carabid community characteristics of forest-tundra and open woodland. During field seasons in 1988 and 1989, 2,597 carabid specimens were collected in both subarctic zones. Of the 65 species represented, 53 were found in open woodland and 34 were found in forest-tundra; 22 species were common to both zones. Diversity indices (
4009695| The southern Neotropical genus Hylamorpha (Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae: Anoplognathini: Brachysternina) is comprehensively reviewed. Hylamorpha elegans (Burmeister) is now the only species in the genus with H. cylindrica Arrow entered into new synonymy. Hylamorpha elegans var. australis Philippi is recognized as an unavailable name. Hylamorpha elegans is established as the type species for the genus, and a neotype for H. elegans is designated. Nomenclatural history, descriptions, illustrations, and commentary are included. /// El gnero Hylamorpha (Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae: Anoplognathini: Brachysternina) del sur del Neotrpico es comprensivamente revisado. Hylamorpha elegans (Burmeister) es ahora la nica especie del gnero, H. cylindrica Arrow pasa a sinonimia, y H. elegans var. australis Philippi es reconocida como nombre no valido. Se establece Hylamorpha elegans como la especie tipo del gnero y se designa un neotipo para H. elegans. Se incluyen la historia nomenclatural,descripciones, ilustraciones y comentarios. 
3999680|A synopsis of Ephebus, based on study of type specimens, is given. Three new species are described, while E. chontalesianus Gorham is synonymized with E. piceus Gor., and E. depressus and E. ignobilis Gor. are transferred to Anidrytus. The 3 new species are: E. sulcatus (Mexico and northern South America), E. longulus (northern Brazil), E. exclusus (Guatemala).
3999772|Collections of water beetles were made at regular intervals (biweekly or monthly) over a period of 1 year in 5 aquatic habitats near Shiraz, Fars Province, Iran: 472 specimens were collected in the families Dytiscidae (251), Noteridae (22), Haliplidae (76), Gyrinidae (27), and Hydrophilidae (96). The greatest diversity was found in the Zarghan Marshes, a periodic marsh complex northeast of Shiraz (11 genera, 14 species). The least diversity was encountered in marshes and other situations fed by perennial springs at Barm-E-Delak and Dasht-E-Arjan (5 genera, 5 species combined).
27571070|Due to its astonishingly rich and imperiled biodiversity, the small island of Madagascar is globally significant in terms of species conservation. To contribute to the ongoing research and conservation efforts there, a taxonomic review of the Malagasy species of Sphindidae (Coleoptera: Cucujoidea) is provided. Five species are treated, representing two genera, Sphindus Megerle in Dejean and Aspidiphorus Zeigler in Dejean. Diagnoses, descriptions, illustrations and a taxonomic key are provided. Four new species are described: Aspidiphorus bisulcatus Forrester & McHugh, new species; Aspidiphorus inordinatus Forrester & McHugh, new species, Aspidiphorus protuberans Forrester & McHugh, new species; and Aspidiphorus quadratidentis Forrester & McHugh, new species.
4009509|The genus Leiopsammodius Rakovic is reviewed for America north of Mexico. Three new species are described and a key is provided to the four currently known species; Leiopsammodius acei, new species from coastal North and South Carolina, L. ocmulgeei, new species from Georgia, and L. deyrupi, new species and L. malkini (Cartwright) both from Florida.
4009664|Asidopsis olsoni new species from Arizona, U.S.A. and A. humeralis new species from Chihuahua, Mexico (Pimeliinae: Asidini) are described. The distinctive characters of these new species in relation to others of the genus are discussed. Habitus photographs and illustrations of antennae and male genitalia are included.
3999682|The fluorescent compounds of 13 species in 5 genera of fireflies have distinctive generic, specific, and population variation, as revealed by 2-dimensional paper chromatography. Spectrophotofluorometry of the fluorescent compounds was not useful for typifying the chemicals.
40664379|Acanthoscelides delgadoi new species, collected in Nuevo Len, Mexico, is described and illustrated. A key to the obtectus species-group is provided.
4542987|Enaptorhinus shansiensis Han & Zhang, new species is described from China with a discussion of key characters and relationships between the new species and other members of the genus. Keys to the species of both male and female adult Enaptorhinus Waterhouse are presented. Illustrations of diagnostic features of the new species are provided. All type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing, China.
4009796|A new genus and species of hetaeriine histerid is described. Aritaerius pallidus is known almost exclusively from specimens collected at UV light. It inhabits xeric areas in the U. S., in Arizona, and in Nuevo Leon and Tamaulipas, Mexico.
4009870|The new species, Stator huautlae, is described. It was reared from nutlets of its host plant Salvia sessei Bentham (Lamiaceae), from Morelos, Mexico. This is the first record for the genus Stator and for a bruchid from the New World feeding in the fruits of this family. The relationships of S. huautlae to other species groups of Stator are discussed. Figures of the dorsal and lateral surfaces, the male genitalia, and eggs and exit holes of S. huautlae in the nutlets of S. sessei are included.
41316668|Chorological and phenological analyses of the aquatic beetle fauna (Gyrinidae, Haliplidae, Hygrobiidae, Noteridae, Dytiscidae, Hydrophilidae, Hydraenidae, Dryopidae, Elmidae, and Scirtidae) of northern Tunisia are presented. Water beetles were sampled from freshwater ecosystems at 64 sites distributed throughout northern Tunisia. In total, 123 species were identified and their distribution in the study area is discussed. Chorological categories were determined according to the geographical distribution of sampled species. Three groups of species were established based on their phenology: permanent, frequent, and seasonal species.
4008652|The chromosome number and sex-chromosome mechanism are listed for 53 species in the families Curculionidae, Attelabidae and Apionidae. Chromosome number is constant in short-snouted species of Curculionidae while long-snouted species show a great deal of variation with their haploid number ranging from 10 to 28. In all the species in which the sex configurations were discernible, the male meiotic cells exhibited a parachute shaped
27571052|Gyrinids were collected from lotic and lentic sites in the Texas Big Thicket, where species frequently exhibited aggregation. Aggregations consisted of two or more species, and some aggregations had species representing up to three genera: Dineutus MacLeay, Gyretes Brull and Gyrinus Mller. The composition of these aggregations is described along with habitat preferences. In the Big Thicket region of east Texas, gyrinids are most commonly found in species aggregations and were rarely collected in as single species groups.
4008564|The duration of the life cycle of Sparrmannia flava Arrow is one year in the arid Kalahari. Larvae forage above ground at night on antelope dung pellets, a unique feature in the Melolonthinae. Larval development proceeds intermittently, with feeding periods after rain interrupted by quiescent periods during dry spells.
41413635|A new species-group in the flea beetle genus Aphthona Chevrolat is defined and Aphthona yercaudensis Prathapan and Konstantinov, new species, from southern India is described. A key to Aphthona species-groups in the Oriental Region is provided. Herbaceous species of Phyllanthus L. (Euphorbiaceae) are recorded as the host plants of Aphthona bombayensis Scherer.
4008263| New larval host plant records are presented for the following species of Cerambycidae from the southwestern United States: Anelaphus dentatus, Neoclytus augusti, Neoclytus sp. [near augusti], Neoclytus caprea, Perarthrus linsleyi, Crioprosopus magnificus, Goes novus, and Adetus sp. [near analis?]. Adult behavior of C. magnificus is discussed, and collecting records are cited for Pogonocherus arizonicus and Tetraopes linsleyi. Character variation and sexual differences in P. arizonicus are analyzed. Strangalia famelica is recorded for the first time from Texas, with brief discussion of an unusual phenotype from Mississippi, and specimens possibly representing Strangalia virilis  famelica hybrids are characterized. The following new synonymies are established: Anelaphus antennatus (=Anelaphus subinermis), Neoclytus abbreviatus (=Neoclytus augusti), and Leiopus setipes (=Trichastylopsis albidus). 
4007988|Eight species of Scolytidae are recorded from the Cocos Islands, five of which are new locality records. Phloeotribus pacificus is described as new.
4008934|The occurrence and distribution of the water penny beetle, Eubrianax edwardsii (LeConte), was studied in Lake Tahoe, Walker Lake, and Pyramid Lake in Nevada, and Upper Salmon, Haven, Goose, and Gold Lakes in the Sierra Nevada of California. Sampling was more intensive in Gold Lake to better understand the microdistributional pattern. Samples were collected at six sites at or near the beach line along 1.1 km of shore, in the stream outflow of the lake and along four belt transects from the shore directly out into the lakes. The water depth, distance from shore, and number of larvae per rock were recorded. Rock size was also measured in the three transects. Although larvae were relatively common in Gold Lake, only one was found in the stream outflow. Larvae were more abundant close to shore, but could be found as far out as 15 m and in water almost 2 m deep. The probability of finding a larva increased with the size of the rock, but most (181) rocks sampled had no larvae, while 32 rocks had 1, 2 rocks had 2, 1 rock had 3, and no rocks bore more than 3 larvae. The cause(s) of these patterns is (are) unknown. Little is known about the ecology of this insect. Larvae were easily found along the six shore sites of Gold Lake and in Goose Lake. They were not collected in any of the other sampled lakes.
4543019|The Nearctic species of Brychius Thomson, 1859 (Coleoptera: Haliplidae) were revised by examining adult and larval specimens. Brychius albertanus Carr 1928 is a junior subjective synonym of Brychius hornii Crotch 1873. Descriptions of adults and larvae (excluding B. pacificus), distribution data, and a key to adults are provided for all Nearctic species. From a reconstructed phylogeny of all species of Brychius, B. hornii + B. hungerfordi is the sister-group to Brychius elevatus Panzer 1794 + Brychius glabratus Villa 1833; and these combined are the sister group to Brychius pacificus Carr, 1928. Species of Brychius are hypothesized to have arisen and diversified on Laurasia during the Jurassic Period. Brychius hornii and B. hungerfordi originated in the Tertiary Period before the formation of the Rocky Mountains, ca. 50 to 100 million years ago. It is thought that vicariance has played an important role in the present distribution, where species were once widespread in cool mountainous glacial streams, then became restricted to geographically isolated regions with the retreat of the glaciers and the extinction of intervening populations.
4008037|Archaeoglenes is a genus of small (1.2-2.8 mm) tenebrionid beetles that is known from only 8 species world-wide. Four of these, including 2 new species, occur in the Neotropical region. Descriptions of these new species are presented in the context of a taxonomic review of the Neotropical Archaeoglenes. A. pecki Lawrence, A. puntaensis n. sp., and A. bollensis n. sp., are apparent cloud forest endemics from Jamaica and Panama. They exhibit several reduction characteristics, including loss of hind wings; reduction of eyes to 4-5 or 7-8 facets; reduction of antennae to 9 segments (from 10), and in one species, 2 of these segments are partially fused; and reduction of tarsi to 3-3-3 (from 4-4-4) in males of one species. Tentative phylogenetic relationships for the cloud forest species are as follows: A. bollensis and A. puntaensis are most closely related; and A. pecki is the probable sister to the A. bollensis--A. puntaensis group.
4007930|Apion (Perapion) curtirostre, a European weevil species not previously reported from North America, was taken in series in 1968 near Bar Harbor, Maine. This species develops in various species of Rumex; it may be of benefit in suppression of the weed curly dock, R. crispus, or it may prove destructive of native Rumex important in wildlife management. Perapion is a subgenus of Apion, apparently related to the palaearctic subgenus Apion but distinguished from it and from all other North American subgenera by having open middle coxal cavities. Diagnostic features of the four North American species of Perapion are summarized in a key to genera and species.
4008693|Collections of adults and larvae of Dytiscidae and Hydrophilidae from shallow lentic habitats were made with bottle traps and a D-frame net. Comparison of the two sampling methods showed that adults in most genera of Dytiscidae, larvae of actively swimming Dytiscidae, adult Hydrophilidae in the subfamily Hydrophilinae, and larvae of Hydrophilus and Berosus were more effectively collected with bottle traps. A D-frame net more effectively collected adults and larvae of Hydrophilidae in other genera, adults of very small Dytiscidae (Desmopachria, Liodessus, Uvarus), and larvae of Dytiscidae that swim poorly.
3999967|Information on the life cycle of Hippopsis lemniscata (Fabricius), a cerambycid attacking common ragweed, Ambrosia artemisiifolia L., is presented. The beetle is univoltine in northeastern Ohio, with peak adult emergence occurring during a 3-4 wk period from early July to early August. Eggs are deposited singly within the pith of the stem. First- to fourth-stage larvae bore into and feed upon the pith. Mature larvae overwinter in a state of temperature-induced quiescence within the stem. Pupation occurs within the stem in a specially constructed pupal chamber. Despite extensive feeding, pith destruction by larval H. lemniscata does not appear to affect the competitive or reproductive capacities of A. artemisiifolia.
4008902| We introduce a new method of marking a large number of beetles for individual identification in subsequent recaptures. Small triangular and square notches cut in particular positions of the elytra mark individuals permanently, and seem not to affect activity or longevity. This method requires only a pair of scissors, and it avoids the problems that confront paint-based methods in moist environments. /// Introducimos un mtodo nuevo de marcar un nmero grande de escarabajos para identificacin individual en recapturas subsecuentes. Pequeas seas triangulares y cuadradas cortadas en posiciones particulares de los litros marcan a individuos permanentemente, y estas seas parecen no afectar sus actividades y longevidad. Este mtodo requiere solamente unas tijeras, y evita los problemas que afrontan mtodos que usan pinturas en ambientes hmedos. 
4009717|Meganeltumius Romero and Johnson and M. juani Romero and Johnson are described. This new genus and species are quite distinct due to the combination of the large gibbosities on the prothorax, the gibbosities on the elytra, the elongate genitalia, and especially the unique pattern of serrations on the metafemur. The hind femur is armed on its inner edge with about eight small serrations beginning about 0.5 from the base and ending at the apex in a subapical spine. This pattern of serrations and spines on the metafemur is unique to this genus of bruchids. All of these characters separate this species from any other and the pattern of serrations and spine on the metafemur separate this genus from any genus known to us. It resembles a large species of Neltumius Bridwell, consequently the name.
4008803| The Neotropical genus Hologymnetis (formerly Cineretis) is comprehensively reviewed. Descriptions and a key to the seven species are presented, including three new species (H. kinichahau from Guatemala and Mexico, H. moroni from Mexico, and H. vulcanorum from El Salvador). Hologymnetis margaritis is restored to species status. A cladistic analysis reconstructing the presumed phylogeny of the genus is provided, and a discussion of the characters and their states is given. Hologymnetis cinerea and H. undulata were found to be the most derived species, while H. vulcanorum, H. margaritis and H. kinichahau are the least derived; H. moroni and H. argenteola are sister species. The biogeographical study indicates that the genus is South American in origin with one species (H. undulata) now occurring there south of the Amazon Basin. Dispersal through Central America after the formation of the Panamanian land bridge is indicated. Descendent taxa then dispersed and speciated from El Salvador through southern and western Mexico and extreme southern Arizona. Subsequent formation of unfavorable habitat (primarily lowland rainforest) from Amazonia to Nicaragua eliminated species of ancestral Hologymnetis previously living there. /// El gnero Neotropical Hologymnetis (anteriormente Cineretis) es revisado. Se describen tres nuevas especies: H. kinichahau de Guatemala y Mxico, H. moroni de Mxico, y H. vulcanorum de El Salvador. Para cada especie se comentan los datos conocidos de su biologa y los registros precisos de localidad complementados con mapas y se incluye una clave para separar las siete especies hasta ahora conocidas. Se propone un anlisis cladstico que supone la filognia de este gnero, discutiendo los caracteres y sus estados. Hologymnetis cinerea y H. undulata fueron encontradas las especies ms derivadas, mientras que H. vulcanorum, H. margaritis y H. kinichahau son menos derivados; H. moroni y H. argenteola son especies hermanas. Los estudios biogeogrficos indican que el gnero es de origen sudamericano con una especie (H. undulata) ocurriendo en el sur de la Cuenca del Amazonas. La dispersin a travs de Centroamrica despues de la formacin del puente panameo es indicada. Los taxa descendientes se dispersaron y especieron en El Salvador a travs del sur y oeste de Mxico y extremo sur de Arizona. La subsecuente formacin de habitats desfavorables (primariamente bosques lluviosos en las tierras bajas) de Amazonia a Nicaragua elimin la especies ancestral de Hologymnetis anteriormente viva all. 
4009013|The immature stages of Calleida viridipennis (Say) and Plochionus timidus Haldeman are described, including the egg, three larval instars, and pupa. Figures are provided that illustrate the dorsal aspect of the head capsule, pygopod and urogomphi, and a dorsal view of the 3rd instar larva of each species. Calleida viridipennis is compared with C. decora, C. punctata, and P. timidus.
4000038|The tiger beetle, Megacephala affinis DeJean (Cicindelidae) is reported for the first time to be a predator on the dung beetles Onthophagus landolti Har. and O. marginicollis Har. (Scarabaeidae).
3999534|Xysticus apachecus Gertsch crab spiders were collected feeding on adult Diplotaxis sp., D. parvicollis Fall, and Phyllophaga (Listrochelus) falsa (LeConte) scarab beetles on young Pinus ponderosa Laws. trees in Arizona. New records of prey, spider-habitat associations, and predators of scarab beetles are established by these collections.
4007918|A drawing of the larval head capsule and a description of the apical margin of the frontal piece are given as a supplement to previously published aids in identification of larvae of carabids of cropland.
4008257|The new species Lepturges vogti is described from southern Texas. Taxonomic comparisons are given for related species and the larval habits in leaves of Yucca treculeana are briefly summarized.
4008857| A new species of the genus Onthophagus is described from the states of Morelos and Michoacan, Mexico. Specimens were collected associated with several basidiomycete macrofruiting bodies: Amanita, Boletus, Lactarius, Tricholoma and especially Russula, and also in carrion traps and dog dung. Notes are provided on its habits, relationships with congeneric species, and distribution. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Onthophagus de los estados de Morelos y Michoacn, Mxico. Los especmenes fueron colectados en esporforos de varios gneros de Basidiomycetes: Amanita, Boletus, Lactarius, Tricholoma, y especialente en Russula. Se han recolectado tambin en necrotrampas y en excremento de perro. Se comenta sobre hbitos alimentarios, as como sus relaciones con otras especies congenricas y su distribucin geogrfica. 
4007885| Three modern records of the Palaearctic species Ontholestes murinus (Linn 1758) from Newfoundland are discussed. The species is considered a recent introduction to North America. A key to the two species of Ontholestes Ganglbauer 1895 known to occur in North America is given. The previous transfer of Staphylinus capitatus Bland 1864 from the genus Ontholestes to the subgenus Dinothenarus C. G. Thomson 1858 of the genus Staphylinus Linn 1758, proposed by Smetana (1959), is confirmed. 
3999514| The presence of Anommatus duodecimstriatus (Mller) in North America at Rochester, New York, is confirmed. It is an eyeless, wingless, and probably parthenogenetic species, native to and widespread in Europe. Its introduction to Rochester was with soil accompanying plants. An extensive sampling program of North American forest litter has not shown the species to be established elsewhere. 
4010030| The bromeliad-eating weevil Metamasius quadrilineatus Champion is the native host of the tachinid Lixadmontia franki Wood and Cave, which is being studied as a candidate biological control agent of the Mexican bromeliad weevil, Metamasius callizona (Chevrolat), a pest of native bromeliads in Florida. Information on the reproductive biology of M. quadrilineatus was gathered in order to produce sufficient quantities of the weevil and L. franki for biological and non-target testing studies. Longevity, fecundity, and egg viability of M. quadrilineatus females on Catopsis hahnii (Baker) were studied under laboratory conditions at 21C temperature, 70% relative humidity, and a 12: 12 hr light:dark photoperiod. Females lived an average of 17.0  1.3 weeks (range = 3-29 weeks). Survivorship decreased significantly starting in week 11 and reached 48% in week 19. Females initiated oviposition 3.3  0.2 weeks (mean  standard error) after emergence. In total, 593 eggs were produced by 30 caged females in a 22-week oviposition period. Most of the egg production (83%) was obtained during weeks 3-13 after emergence. Maximum egg production of 3.3 eggs/female/week was reached at week 8. Average egg viability was 33%. The highest percent egg hatch (77%) was obtained in week 8, followed by weeks 7 and 9 with approximately 67% and 61% viability, respectively. Mean egg length and width were 0.72  0.003 and 0.31  0.002 mm ( standard error, sample size = 458). 
4000176|Collections of Aphodius from nests and refuse chambers of the pocket gopher, Geomys bursarius brazensis Davis, at College Station, Brazos County, Texas, during 1976-78 yielded specimens of 2 species not previously reported from this area. One of these, Aphodius oklahomensis Brown, has not been reported previously from pocket gopher burrows in Texas.
4008980|The second species of Pseudactium Casey from Arkansas, P. ursum, new species, is described from three male specimens collected in mature deciduous forest near the Buffalo River, Newton County. Pseudactium ursum resembles P. parabolicum, but differs in anatomical details of the trochanters, abdomen, and aedeagus. A modification to a recently published key is provided that allows separation of P. ursum from the ten other described species of Pseudactium. Pseudactium ursum is the only known pselaphine species that is precinctive to the Ozark Plateau.
41413648|Arnaudius Grossi and Bartolozzi, new genus, is described to include Metadorcinus digennaroi Arnaud, Noguchi, and Bomans, Sclewstomus koikei Arnaud, Noguchi, and Bomans, and a third species, Arnaudius bomansi Grossi and Bartolozzi, new species, described here. An identification key is provided for the three species, in addition to a map of their distribution. Comments are made about the generic classification of the stag beetle species with a complex male genital capsule.
4009587| The alternative defensive strategies of two neotropical tiger beetles, Odontocheila nicaraguensis Bates and Pseudoxycheila tarsalis Bates, are described and compared. The defensive functions of their respective colorations were analyzed in the context of local ambient light and visual backgrounds using spectroradiometry. Odontocheila nicaraguensis exhibited a cryptic elytral coloration that closely matched the substrate of the forest understory. When disturbed, the beetles quickly flew and exposed an iridescent green abdomen that was highly conspicuous in the ambient light of forest gaps. Pseudoxycheila tarsalis exhibited a color pattern that was highly conspicuous against the exposed soil within large gaps of cloud forest, and matched the color pattern of mutillid wasps. When disturbed, P. tarsalis did not fly, but released a distasteful secretion; suggesting that the beetle was both aposematic and a Mllerian mimic of the mutillids. The behavioral observations and spectroradiometric analyses of color patterns presented here support alternative defensive roles for the elytral colorations of O. nicaraguensis (crypsis) and P. tarsalis (aposematism, mimicry) and demonstrate the plausibility of other secondary defenses involving color. 
4009470| This paper discusses the external and genital features of Polyphylla Harris as well as the taxonomic status of Polyphylla pubescens Cartwright, which was placed in the monotypic genus Polylamina Hardy. Likewise, Polyphylla pubescens is compared with Polyphylla varilosa Harris, Polyphylla annamensis (Fleutiaux), Hypothyce mixta Howden and Dinacoma caseyi Blaisdell, to assess the relationships of these taxa. Phyllophaga (Tostegoptera) lanceolata (Say) is considered the outgroup. The limited subset of characters used by Hardy to erect the genus Polylamina does not withstand the criterion of monophyly when it is assessed within the context of all available character data. Thus, new character systems relative to the external morphology of the adult and the male genitalia, are considered in this paper. Phylogenetic analysis show that ranking Polyphylla pubescens as a monotypic genus renders Polyphylla paraphyletic. Therefore, the placement of Polyphylla pubescens in the genus Polylamina is unacceptable. /// Este trabajo discute los rasgos morfolgicos externos y genitales del gnero Polyphylla Harris, as como el rango taxonmico de Polyphylla pubescens Cartwright considerada especie tipo del gnero monoespecfico Polylamina Hardy. Para establecer las relaciones filogenticas Polyphylla pubescens se compara con Polyphylla variolosa Harris, Polyphylla annamensis (Fleutiaux), Hypothyce mixta Howden y Dinacoma caseyi Blaisdell, usando como grupo externo Phyllophaga (Tostegoptera) lanceolata (Say). El limitado nmero de caracteres usados por Hardy para establecer el gnero Polylamina, no son suficientes para evaluar la monofilia del taxon en el contexto de todos los datos disponibles. Por tanto, en este trabajo se consideran nuevos caracteres referentes a la morfologa externa del adulto y la genitalia masculina. El anlisis filogentico permite concluir que la consideracin de Polyphylla pubescen como gnero monoespecfico lleva a Polyphylla a la parafilia. Por ello, la consideracin de Polyphylla pubescens en el gnero Polylamina es inaceptable. 
4008092|Pissodes fiskei Hopkins is shown to have easily recognized external and internal morphological features making it one of the most unique and easily identifiable species of the genus. A detailed description for both sexes is presented.
4007938|Field-collected and laboratory-reared larvae and pupae of M. bicolor (F.) are described and illustrated in detail for the first time.
4008996| The genus group names Taeniesthes Kraatz and Dyspilophora Kraatz are synonymized with Chondrorrhina Kraatz, and Chondrorrhina is ranked as a subgenus under Pedinorrhina Kraatz. The name Plaesiorrhinella Krikken is synonymized with Pedinorrhina Kraatz. The relationships of Pedinorrhina to other Coryphocerina are briefly discussed. The following species synonymies are corrected: P. (P.) septa Harold = P. (P.) mediana (Westwood); P. (P.) ugandensis Schrhoff = P. (P.) subaenea Harold; P. (P.) umbanghina (Preiss) = P. (P.) watkinsiana (Lewis). 
3999724|Megasoma lenczyi is a new species (type locality: 8 mi. N San Felipe, Baja California, Mexico), the 4th Megasoma species reported from Baja California. It is described and figured, and included in a revised key to Megasoma.
4008720|The subgenus Pachriostrix of Desmopachria is characterized, a key is given for the identification of the described species, and a new species, D. (Pachriostrix) ruginosa (Brazil), is described. Figures of male external genitalia are given where known to aid in determination.
4009676| New continental, national, provincial and state records of 34 species of Ptiliidae reported from North America are briefly listed, 20 of which belong to Acrotrichis Motschulsky. Eight European/Palaearctic species (Oligella foveolata (Allibert), Ptiliolum fuscum (Erichson), Ptiliola kunzei (Heer), Ptinella aptera (Gurin-Meneville), P. britannica Matthews, P. johnsoni Rutanen, Acrotrichis parva Rosskothen, A. silvatica Rosskothen) were previously not recorded on the North American continent. Fourteen species are new to Canada and 12 new to U.S.A. New or previously dubious provincial and state records are confirmed for Canada (96) and for U.S.A. (133). Acrotrichis fungi (Abdullah and Abdullah), previously established as a nomen dubium, should be removed from the Canadian list of Coleoptera. An updated checklist of North American ptiliid genera is presented. A tabulated summary of ptiliid species common to North America and either Europe or the Palaearctic is presented. Species are ordered according to their supposed origin (recent introductions or indigenous elements). 
4008470|The A. furcatus group of the weevil genus Anthonomus Germar contains 10 neotropical species, some of which are known to have hosts in the plant family Malpighiaceae. Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species are described and some of these are illustrated. A key to species is also presented. Seven new species, A. agamus (French Guiana), A. captivus (Paraguay), A. cuyaguensis (Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Venezuela), A. leticiensis (Colombia), A. mankinsi (Honduras), A. plaga (Argentina, Paraguay) and A. rhinozote (Brazil), are described. Lectotypes are designated for A. sulcicollis Hustache and A. furcatus Champion.
41314186|Diplotaxis riusi Delgado, new species, collected in Nuevo Len, Mexico, is described, and the male genitalia are illustrated.The key to the species in the Diplotaxis brevicollis-haydenii species-group is modified to include this new species. Se describe a Diplotaxis riusi Delgado, especie nueva, colectada en el estado de Nuevo Len, Mxico, ilustrando tambin su genitalia masculino. Se modifica la clave del grupo de especies Diplotaxis brevicollis-haydenii para incluir a la nueva especie.
4008739|Lasioderma haemorrhoidale (Illiger) is recorded from Santa Clara and Fresno counties, California; these are the first records for this species, which is native to the Mediterranean region. The species is redescribed, a modified key to North American species of Lasioderma is provided, and the beetle and male genitalia are illustrated. Host data are given for L. haemorrhoidale and, if known, for other world species of Lasioderma.
4009888|The cabbage seedpod weevil is a serious pest of canola or oilseed rape (Brassica napus L.) and several other brassicaceous seed crops in both Europe and North America. A number of Ceutorhynchinae species can occur in canola or in cruciferous weeds infesting the crop, but immature stages of few of the species are well described. The morphology of pre-imaginal life stages of the cabbage seedpod weevil, Ceutorhynchus obstrictus (Marsham), is presented. Descriptions are given of taxonomic characters observed under both phase contrast and scanning electron microscopy. Characters to separate C. obstrictus and its sympatric congener Ceutorhynchus neglectus Blatchley include the numbers of dorsal, ventral, and lateral epicranial setae and the numbers of setae on the labrum, maxillary palps, stipes, and mala.
4008814|Cyclocephala aravaipensis n.sp. and C. warneri n.sp. are described from Arizona, U.S.A. and Chiapas, Mexico, respectively. An unusual melanistic form of C. melanocephala (Fab.) is reported from two localities in northeastern Quintana Roo, Mexico.
4009575| Platycoelia bicolor (Gutirrez) (Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae) is transferred from the tribe Anoplognathini, subtribe Platycoeliina, to the tribe Rutelini. Platycoelia bicolor is placed in the genus Eremophygus Ohaus and the taxonomic history of the species is discussed. The transfer creates a new combination, Eremophygus bicolor (Gutirrez) and places the generic name Heterocallichloris Gutirrez as a junior synonym of Eremophygus (new synonymy). Morphological characters that warrant the transfer are discussed. /// Se transfiere Platycoelia bicolor (Gutirrez) (Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae) de la tribu Anoplognathini, subtribe Platycoeliina, a la tribu Rutelini. Se transfiere Platycoelia bicolor al gnero Eremophygus Ohaus y se discute su historia taxonmica. La transferencia crea una nueva combinacin, Eremophygus bicolor (Gutirrez) y ubica al nombre genrico Heterocallichloris Gutirrez como un sinnimo junior de Eremophygus. Se discuten los caracteres morfolgicos que justifican la transferencia. 
4009510|New taxa and changes in nomenclature are provided in the genera Acmaeodera Eschscholtz, Chrysobothris Eschscholtz, and Agrilus Curtis. Acmaeodera mariposa Horn is discussed as a polytypic species, with A. dohrni Horn given subspecific status therein. Acmaeodera plagiaticauda Horn is treated in detail, with A. verecunda Barr and A. postica Fall considered as synonyms, the latter synonymy necessitating erection of A. rubrocuprea, new species. Also described is A. constrictinotum, new species. Agrilus parvus Saunders and C. purpureovittata become polytypic with the description of A. p. californicus, new subspecies and C. p. cercocarpi, new subspecies. These taxa are discussed in detail, the latter requiring modification of the most current key to the genus in North America.
4008801|Two new species of Cerambycidae from Chiapas, Mexico, are described with illustrations: Parastrongylaspis thomasi in the tribe Macrotomini, and Anthoboscus oculatus in the tribe Clytini.
4008276|Pseudobaris nigrina (Say) infests commercially grown mint in Idaho and Oregon, but is not an economic pest except in newly planted fields or mint grown for rootstalk increase. Adult weevils are active and mate by late May. Eggs are laid in mint stems at the soil line and hatch in about three weeks. Larvae pass through five instars in two to three weeks and then pupate in the larval tunnel inside the mint rhizome. The pupal period is two weeks. Adults overwinter in larval tunnels in mint rhizomes or in plant debris in the field. There is one generation per year. The species is found in the eastern part of the United States and is herein reported from Idaho and Oregon for the first time.
4008466| Chrysobothris fabulosa sp. n. and Chrysobothris nigropicta sp. n. are described from Yucatn and Quintana Roo, Mxico. They are figured and related to similar species. 
4000026|Coprophilus castoris new species, is described from Quebec, and New Brunswick, Canada, and New York state. Adults of the new species are compared with those of the Palearctic species Coprophilus striatulus (Fabricius) and a key is presented for identification of the two North American species of the genus and C. striatulus. The latter species is removed from the list of species known from North America.
4009813|A new species of checkered beetle, Enoclerus addisoni, is described from Colombia. This new species, with its shining blue integument, and transverse antemedian and subapical eburneus fasciae, is readily separable from all other described congeners. The status of our knowledge of the Colombian Enoclerus species is summarized.
4008630|Blethisa multipunctata Linnaeus and B. quadricollis Haldeman are reported from Montana with notes on their habitats and associated ground beetles. Habitat, associated species, and distribution notes are also presented for B. oregonensis LeConte. Behavioral observations are given for B. multipunctata and B. oregonensis.
4009697| The larvae of Platycoelia gaujoni Ohaus and Platycoelia lutescens Blanchard (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae) are described. These are the first descriptions of Neotropical Anoplognathini larvae. The character states shared by larval Platycoelia and two previously described Australian Anoplognathini larvae are examined. Character states that separate known Anoplognathini larvae from other Rutelinae tribes are also discussed. /// Se describen las larvas de Platycoelia gaujoni Ohaus y Platycoelia lutescens Blanchard (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae). Esta es la primera descripcin de las larvas de Anoplognathini neotropicales. Se examinan los estados de los caracteres compartidos entre las larvas de Platycoelia y las larvas de dos especies australianas de Anoplognathini, previamente descritas. Se discuten los estados de los caracteres que distinguen a las larvas de los Anoplognathini conocidos de otras tribus de Rutelinae. 
3999925|The new genus and species Howdenocarus mexicanus is described from Campeche, Mexico, and compared to the nearctic genera Gronocarus and Fossocarus. Phobetus sleeperi and Phobetus panamintensis are described from Baja California and California respectively, and these are included in a new key to the genus Phobetus.
3999815|Four new species are described in the previously monotypic genus, Pseudotypocerus. These are: P. nitidicollis, El Salvador; P. virescens, Panama; P. inflaticollis, Panama; and P. cantharidis, Costa Rica and Panama.
4009555|We describe for the first time immature stages of the Scymnus subgenus Neopullus; namely the egg, larval (4 instars), and pupal stages of Scymnus (Neopullus) sinuanodulus Yu and Yao (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), which is indigenous to China. This lady beetle was imported to the USA for biological control of the hemlock wooly adelgid, Adelges tsugae Annand (Hemiptera: Adelgidae), a serious pest of hemlocks in eastern North America. The egg's anterior pole has a rosette of 4-11 cup-shaped and 13-20 semicircular structures that are likely micropyles. Unlike the subgenera Scymnus and Pullus, a Neopullus larva lacks a retinaculum on its mandibles but has, in common, the antennae with 3 distinct segments, the maxillary palpi with 3 segments, and the labial palpi with 2 segments. The pupa is naked with transparent viscous droplets on the tips of setae and the larval exuvium attached only to the last abdominal segment. We also annotate morphological development and behavior of feeding, oviposition, and defense. Both larvae and adults of this small lady beetle exhibit defensive reflex bleeding of orange viscous droplets: the larva from thoracic tubercles and the adult from the femorotibial joints.
4008736| Carinisphindus, a new genus of Sphindidae (Coleoptera: Clavicornia), is described. Eurysphindus bicolor Fisher is redescribed and reassigned to Carinisphindus. Three new species of Carinisphindus are described: C. isthmensis (Panama), C. leptosphinctos (Dominican Republic), and C. platysphinctos (Jamaica). A key to the species is provided. /// Se describe a Carinisphindus, un nuevo gnero de Sphindidae (Coleoptera: Clavicornia). Se redescribe a Eurysphindus bicolor Fisher y se la transfiere a Carinisphindus. Se describen tres nuevas especies de Carinisphindus: C. isthmensis (Panam), C. leptosphinctos (Repblica Dominicana), y C. platysphinctos (Jamaica). Se da una clave para las especies de Carinisphindus. 
4009396| The species list of Scarabeinae attracted to woolly monkey (Lagothrix lagothricha Humboldt) dung at Tinigua National Park, Meta, Colombia is presented. Nineteen species of dung beetles in nine genera were captured, representing 36.5% of 52 species that have been found in the study area. This high proportion and the fact that woolly monkeys are the most abundant diurnal mammals in the study site suggest that woolly monkey dung can be especially important for the dung beetle community at Tinigua National Park. The results indicate the importance of conducting studies on the type and availability of food resources for tropical dung beetles. /// Se presenta la lista de especies de Scarabeinae atradas por el excremento de micos churucos (Lagothrix lagotricha Humboldt) en el Parque Nacional Tinigua, Meta, Colombia. Las 19 especies de escarabajos estercoleros encontradas representan el 36.5% de 52 especies que han sido registradas en la zona de estudio. Esta alta proporcin y el hecho de que los churucos constituyen una de las especies de mamferos diurnos ms abundante en el lugar, sugieren que el excremento de estos primates puede ser de especial importancia para la comunidad de escarabajos en el Parque Tinigua. Los resultados resaltan la importancia de realizar estudios sobre el tipo y la disponibilidad de recursos para los escarabajos etercoleros en el trpico. 
3999717|Water penny beetles exhibit a "play" behavior on wave splashed rocks in stream riffles, here interpreted as part of the mating behavior. Copulation has been observed 3 times in the laboratory and only twice in the field despite numerous observations over several years. The only explanation of this apparent lack of mating consistent with all the data is that females are at the mating site for such a short time that the act goes unnoticed.
3999718| The type material of Quedius transparens Motschulsky 1845, deposited at the Museum of Zoology, Moscow State University, Moscow, U.S.S.R., has been studied and a lectotype designated. Quedius marginalis Mklin 1852 and Q. pugetensis Hatch 1957 are junior synonyms of this species. 
3999576| A total of 544 adults of Xenelmis are reported from Mexico: states of Chiapas, Colima, Guerrero, Jalisco, and Morelos; Guatemala: Dept. of Guatemala, Jutiapa, Retalhuleu, and Suchitepequez; Nicaragua: Dept. of Granada; Costa Rica: Dept. of Puntarenas; Panama: Prov. of Chiriqu, Cocl, and Panam; Venezuela: states of Carabobo and Cojedes. A total of 203 larvae were collected from 10 localities in Mexico, 2 in Panam, and 1 in Venezuela, either in association with adults or near sites where adults were found. The mature larva of X. bufo (Sharp) is described and figured, generic characteristics are outlined, and instructions are given for inclusion of Xenelmis in Bertrand's and Hinton's keys to larval elmids. Larvae and adults occur in sandy or gravelly streams. 
3999943|Callirhopalus (subg. Pseudocneorhinus) bifasciatus (Roelofs) adults were observed ovipositing in leaves of California privet, Ligustrum ovalifolium Hassk. The insects form egg pods in leaves by folding the edges or tips with their legs, ovipositing in the fold thus formed, and sealing the folds with a clear fluid by clamping the leaves with their tibiae. An average of 5.1 eggs were found in each pod.
4008246| The single specimen of Passalidae known from the Galapagos Is. (Chatham Is.), formerly identified as Passalus interruptus (L.), is really P. punctiger Lepeletier and Serville. It is a slightly teneral female. Its length is closer to that of Guatemalan Pacific coast specimens of P. punctiger than to that of P. punctiger specimens from South American countries bordering the Pacific. /// El nico especimen de Passalidae conocido de las Islas Galpagos (Chatham Is.), anteriormente determinado como Passalus interruptus (L.), en verdad es P. punctiger Lepeletier y Serville. Es una hembra y es un poco teneral. Su largo corporal es ms parecido a el de especmenes de P. punctiger de la costa pacfica de Guatemala que a el de especimenes de P. punctiger de pases sudamericanas de la costa pacfica. 
3999721|Mature larvae of 3 Thaneroclerinae genera, Thaneroclerus, Zenodosus and Ababa are described or redescribed and a key for their identification presented. The mature larva of Ababa tantilla (LeC.) is described. Characters of potential value for deriving a classification of the subfamily are discussed.
3999814|Biological notes and new localities are given for Cylidrella championi Wickham, C. mollis (Sharp) and Euschaefferia mclayi (Van Dyke) (Coleoptera: Trogositidae), all associated with bark beetles (Scolytidae).
4008618|The genus Voratister and its two included species V. panamensis and V. gilli are described as new. The placement of this genus within the Hetaeriinae and the usefulness of flight interception traps for collecting members of this subfamily are discussed.
4008361|Two new species of Desmopachria (s. str.) Babington, related to D. nitida Babington, are described: D. liosomata from Brazil and D. granoides from Brazil, Bolivia, Suriname, Venezuela, and Trinidad. Desmopachria nitida is redescribed and the male external genitalia are figured for the described species of the nitida group and three similar species.
4009195|Seven new species are described for the New Zealand genus Prodontria Broun: P. rakiurensis (Table Hill, Stewart Island), P. montis (Rock and Pillar Range), P. jenniferae (Pisa Range), P. matagouriae (Mackenzie Basin), P. regalis (Crown Range, Pisa Range), P. minuta (Mackenzie Basin), P. patricki (Danseys Pass). Wing morphology and structure of the female genitalia are presented for the first time. Prodontria bicolorata Given is placed in new synonymy under P. modesta (Broun) and a key is provided for the 17 species of the genus.
4009611|Harpalus (Pseudoophonus) poncei new species is described from Florida, USA, based on three specimens, all collected in 1963. This species may be a Florida endemic overlooked by collectors or an undescribed adventive species.
3999757|Synonymies and new combinations are presented for primarily Mexican Cerambycidae. In the subfamily Cerambycinae, taxa are in the tribes Purpuricenini, Trachyderini, Elaphidionini, Hesperophanini, Molorchini, Clytini, and Anaglyptini. Tribe Holopleurini, new tribe is proposed and characterized. In the subfamily Lamiinae, items in the tribe Tetraopini are listed along with the description of a new genus, Mecasoma.
4008159|Lectotypes are designated for Scymnus (Pullus), Posticalis Sicard and Nephus regularis Sciard. Scymnus (Pullus) ishidai M. Araki is recognized as a junior synonym of S. (P.) posticalis Sicard, and the Scymnus (Nephus) inops Casey of Smirnoff (1973) is recognized as S. (P.) posticalis Sicard.
4008808|The egg case, larva and pupa of Phaenonotum exstriatum (Say 1835) are described, based on material reared in laboratory. The biology of this species is also described, and the placement of Phaenonotum Sharp 1882 among the aquatic or semiaquatic genera of Hydrophilidae is discussed.
3999860|The status of the type specimens cited for Phyllotreta bipustulata (Fabricius) and Phyllotreta striolata (Fabricius) is clarified.
4008397|Observations upon five species of sand-dune associated Scarabaeidae (Coleoptera), which were made during a study funded by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), are reported. Information upon Pseudocotalpa andrewsi Hardy deals with the seasonal abundance, diurnal rhythm, light intensity at evening emergence, reproductive behavior, predators, possible host plant, and general behavior. No new information is reported for Anomala hardyorum Potts. Observations upon the other species (Leptohoplia testaceipennis Saylor, Anomala carlsoni Hardy, and Diplotaxis corbula Vaurie) concern distribution, host plant species, and observed behavior.
4008180|During February and March of 1982 twenty-nine specimens of Hyperantha interrogationis Klug were collected near Guayaquil, Ecuador, from Niguito (Muntingia calabura L.). Observations on adult host food and behavior are recorded.
29739224|The life cycle and number of nests produced by Nicrophorus mexicanus Matthews was studied under laboratory conditions. During summer and autumn, the adult life cycle was 57  8 (mean  SD) days (n = 36). Of 40 recently emerged pairs, 10% did not build a nest during their adult life; 90% built from one to four nests with two nests being the most common (39%). Males lived for 59  14 (n = 40) days and females 54  14 (n = 40) days. Females that built four nests lived the longest; significant differences were noted in the longevity of females that built from one to four nests. No significant difference was noted in the brood size for pairs that built four nests.
4009574| The cassidine genus Acromis Chevrolat is revised. A key for identification of adults, illustrated descriptions and extensive distribution data for the three species are provided. Eggs and mature larvae of A. spinifex (Linnaeus) are redescribed. A cladistic analysis of species based on 19 morphological characters is done using the stolaine genera Omaspides Chevrolat and Echoma Chevrolat, as well as Delocrania cossyphoides Guerin (Delocraniini) and Himatidium capense Herbst (Imatidiini) as outgroups. The resulting single most parsimonious tree (steps = 20; CI = 87; RI = 90) provides strong support for resolution within Acromis. Biological implications are discussed in light of the cladogram. /// Se revisiona el gnero Acromis Chevrolat. Se presentan una clave para la indentificacin de adultos, descripciones ilustradas, y datos detallados de distribucin para las tres especies. Se redescriben los huevos y las larvas maduras de A. spinifex (Linnaeus). Se hace un anlisis cladstico basado en 19 caracteres morfolgicos, utilizando los gneros estolainos Omaspides Chevrolat y Echoma Chevrolat, as como Delocrania cossyphoides Guerin (Delocraniini) y Himatidium capense Herbst (Imatidiini) como grupos externos. El nico rbol ms parsimonioso resultante (pasos = 20; IC = 87; IR = 90) da un apoyo fuerte para la resolucin dentro de Acromis. Se discuten implicaciones biolgicas a la luz del cladograma. 
4009282| In this paper we describe and ilustrate the immature stages of five weevils (Curculionoidea, Brentidae, Apioninae) belonging to the genus Exapion Bedel collected as larval parasites of seeds of different species of Genista (Tournfourt) and Cytisus L.: E. fuscirostre on C. multiflorus (L'Hr.) Sweet, C. scoparius (L.) Link., and C. oromediterraneus R. Mart., Daz, Prieto, Loidi & Penas; E. elongatissimum on C. striatus (Hill) Rothm.; E. putoni on G. florida L. and G. cinerascens Lange; E. compactum on G. florida; and E. laufferi on G. cinerascens. All of them are seed-feeding weevils on Genisteae and can be found in the center of the Iberian Peninsula (Spain). Some of them also appear in Central Europe. We include a key for identification of the immature stages (eggs, larvae and pupae) of the five species. 
4009919|The larvae of Canthon cyanellus LeConte show well-defined sexual dimorphism. This dimorphism is seen in the presence of a terminal ampulla in the ventral region of the ninth abdominal segment in males. The terminal ampulla is a cuticular structure apparently present only in the male larvae beginning at the first instar and shows morphological changes during subsequent larval instars. A detailed study of terminal ampulla morphogenesis is needed to understand exactly how the ampulla develops into the structures of the ejaculatory bulb and aedeagus in the imago. Terminal ampullae have also observed in third-instar larvae of some species of Scarabaeidae, Trogidae, Passalidae and Lucanidae.
4542995| Derancistrus hovorei Lingafelter & Woodley, new species, is described from the Dominican Republic. A diagnosis is provided to discriminate it from morphologically similar taxa, in particular Derancistrodes vittatus (Olivier) and Derancistrus elegans (Palisot de Beauvois). Biological, distributional, and/or taxonomic notes are provided for other Hispaniolan Prioninae including Solenoptera dominicensis (Gahan), Elateropsis femoratus (Sall), Sarifer seabrai Fragoso & Monn, and Mecosarthron domingoensis (Fisher). 
4008251|Anotylus insecatus (Gravenhorst), a Palearctic species, is reported for the first time from North America. The species is briefly described and characters are given to distinguish it from other species of the genus known to occur in North America. Distinguishing characters are illustrated with line drawings and scanning electron photomicrographs.
4009686|The genus Saprositellus Balthasar with type species S. denticulatus Balthasar is redefined and transferred from the tribe Eupariini to Odontolochini. Four species are recognized including three new species: Saprositellus ariquemes new species from Brazil, S. peruanus new species from Peru and S. santaritae new species from Panama. All taxa are described and illustrated, a key to the species is provided.
4000163|This new species in a new monotypic genus is the second species of Peritelini known from east of the Rocky Mountains. An outline illustration of its habitus and of the rostrum and the spermatheca are included, along with diagnoses of related genera.
4009428|Two fossil beetles are the first fossil records of the families Anthicidae (Anthicus neli, new species) and Chrysomelidae (Halticinae) from an Oligocene site near Izarra (Alava, Spain).
4009675| The larvae of Formicomus pedestris Rossi, F. gestroi Pic, and F. rubricollis Lafert (Coleoptera: Anthicidae, Anthicinae) are described and biological data of the reared larvae are given. The life cycles of Omonadus floralis (Linn) and Notoxus monoceros (Linn) are illustrated, and notes of breeding experiments with Stricticomus amaniensis Pic are added. 
4009426|Bidessonotus canis Miller, new species, is described from specimens from Heredia, Costa Rica, the Neotropical Region. The species is diagnosed by the unique shape of the median lobe of the aedeagus.
4009304|Twenty two species-group names of North American Carabidae proposed by Motschulsky between 1845 and 1864 are discussed and lectotypes are designated for 21 of them. Ophonus porosus, Omala fortestriata, Bembidion obscuromaculatum, Leptotrachelus pallidulus, and Stenolophus splendidulus are valid species; the remaining ones, except Myosodus femoratus which does not occur in North America, are invalid. Three of the valid species, Bembidion obscuromaculatum, Leptotrachelus pallidulus, and Stenolophus splendidulus are briefly redescribed or compared with related species. The following new synonymies are proposed: Anisodactylus viridescens LeConte = Ophonus porosus Motschulsky; Stenolophus rotundicollis Motschulsky = Stenolophus ochropezus (Say); Tetragonoderus distigma Motschulsky = Tetragonoderus fasciatus (Haldeman). Anisodactylus rudis LeConte, listed previously as a junior synonym of Ophonus porosus Motschulsky, is considered to be a valid species.
4009384|I measured characteristics of shagbark hickory, Carya ovata (Mill.) twigs selected as oviposition sites by twig girdlers, Oncideres cingulata (Say), to determine any patterns that may affect reproductive success. Best subsets multiple regression analysis of seven twig characteristics revealed that measurements of twig size and number of lateral branches were significant (P < 0.001) determinants of both numbers of eggs laid (
4009145| Two new species of Costa Rican Geotrupinae, Bolbelasmus carinifrons and Neoathyreus tortuguerensis, are described and illustrated. Both species were collected in flight interception traps set in moist tropical forest. /// Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Geotrupinae de Costa Rica, Bolbelasmus carinifrons y Neoathyreus tortuguerensis. Ambas especies fueron colectadas en trampas de interseccin de vuelo colocadas en bosque hmedo tropical. 
41316657|New observations of Cylindera (s. str.) celeripes (LeConte) (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Cicindelinae) are presented from Arkansas, Iowa, Missouri, and Oklahoma and discussed in the context of its historical occurrence in the eastern and central Great Plains. Once abundant in eastern Kansas and Nebraska and western Iowa, the species has declined below detectable levels in much of this area during the past century due to loss of its preferred native grassland habitats. On the other hand, robust populations have been found recently in the Red Hills of western Oklahoma, and the species is also reported in Missouri for the first time and confirmed from Arkansas (White River Hills). These recent observations suggest that the Oklahoma Red Hills population is healthy and not under immediate threat, while those in the Flint Hills and Loess Hills are vulnerable due to their small size and low numbers. The White River Hills population is documented by only a single specimen, thus its status currently cannot be assessed. Conservation measures to protect these populations may be warranted.
4010003|The results of this study indicate the historic range of Cicindela hirticollis abrupta Casey was limited to only five sites within the Sacramento Valley of California. Extensive searches within and beyond its historic range along the Feather and Sacramento Rivers in 2001-2004 failed to find any individuals of this tiger beetle and very little suitable habitat. Another tiger beetle, C. o. oregona Dejean, which occurs in a much greater array of water edge habitats, was common at some sites. The cumulative effects from the Oroville and Shasta Dams, including loss and deterioration of sandy edge river habitats and prolonged high water levels, probably caused the extirpation of C. h. abrupta in the late 1980's to early 1990's.
4008972|Coleoptera were collected from both coarse woody debris (CWD) and benthic habitats from the White River, Illinois River, and Clear Creek of Northwest Arkansas from February 1991 through February 1992. Overall density of beetles was significantly greater on CWD than in benthic habitats. There were no significant seasonal differences in the densities of coleopterans. Most beetles collected from CWD showed a preference for wood with loose bark, and wood that was well decayed with many interstitial spaces. All coleopteran species tested showed a preference for wood with heavy volumes of biofilm. Wood with bark remaining was more heavily colonized by beetles if the bark had a rough texture than if the bark was smooth. Wood with loose bark and/or interstitial space probably provides concealment, and thus protection from predators. Wood with heavy volumes of biofilm probably also provides cover, and may additionally provide a food source for coleopterans.
3999811|Adults, larvae, and pupae of Perigaster cretura (Herbst) occur on species of Ludwigia and Jussiaea (Onagraceae). Larvae feed externally on the leaves and cover themselves with a protective covering of their own excrement. Pupation occurs on the leaves in a cell formed from a secreted material, excrement, and bits of debris. Larval and pupal stages are described and illustrated.
3999451|Description of a new species of Bruchidae, Algarobius bottimeri, is given. This species is found in at least 60 counties in southern and central Texas, in northeastern Mexico, and has been introduced into Hawaii. Characters to separate it from Algarobius prosopis LeConte are given.
4008371| Two new species of Dyschirius Bonelli, D. sextoni Bousquet (type-locality: Belleville, Ontario) and D. hiemalis Bousquet (type-locality: 17 mi. w. Turner Valley, Alberta) are described. Twelve carabid species are reported from Canada for the first time: Stomis pumicatus (Panzer) and Amara eurynota (Panzer), two Palaearctic species introduced in Canada, and Dyschirius haemorrhoidalis (Dejean), Clivina dentipes Dejean, Bembidion tigrinum LeConte, Harpalus puncticeps (Stephens), Harpalus indianus Csiki, Anisodactylus dulcicollis (LaFert-Snectre), Anisodactylus laetus Dejean, Chlaenius laticollis Say, Stenocrepis cuprea (Chaudoir) and Lebia analis Dejean. Elaphropus capax (LeConte) and Perigona pallipennis (LeConte), previously treated as conspecific with E. vivax (LeConte) and P. nigriceps (Dejean) respectively, are treated as distinct species and also recorded for the first time from Canada. Distributional records of inadequately collected species or those extending the ranges of the species in Canada are provided for 71 additional species. 
3999684|Omoglymmius Ganglbauer 1892 was described as a subgenus of Rhysodes Dalman 1823. It is here recognized as a separate genus. It includes 2 North American species, which become Omoglymmius americanus (Laporte) and O. hamatus (Leconte).
4008734|Discriminant analyis revealed that three recognizable taxa within the Oreodytes sanmarkii-obesus complex occur in western North America. The form occurring in the arctic Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories is considered conspecific with northern European specimens of O. sanmarkii (C. R. Sahlberg), while the two more southern taxa are considered subspecies of a single species, O. obesus (LeConte). The subspecies O. o. obsesus occurs in western Washington, Oregon and California, while specimens from Colorado to the southern Yukon Territory and west to British Columbia and eastern Washington are assigned to O. obesus cordillerensis, new subspecies.
4009901| Phanaeus yecoraensis Edmonds, new species, is described from the vicinity of Ycora, Sonora (Mexico). It is illustrated and compared with Phanaeus flohri Nevinson, from which it differs by male and female secondary sexual characters, elytral relief and sculpturing, and distribution. 
3999410|Microedus giulianii n.sp. is described from Big Pine Creek, Inyo Co., California, 8,500 ft. elev. The species is illustrated and a key is provided to distinguish it from the 6 previously known species.
4543035| Sambomorpha corona, new species, is described from Puntarenas Province, Costa Rica and S. panama, new species, is described from the Llano-Cart Road in eastern Panam. Both species are compared to S. costarica Bellamy, 1997 and illustrated. 
4008565|An angled turret constructed by all three larval instars of Cicindela (Pancallia) aurofasciata Dejean in South India is described. Four functions of this turret were hypothesized and tested: 1) increased access to prey, 2) protection from predators, 3) thermoregulation, and 4) protection from flooding. The major functions were: increased prey level, camouflage from predators and parasitoids, and elevated temperatures for winter and nocturnal activity. However, the function of this turret did not include protection from flooding.
4009021| Cymatoderella morula, new species, from Mexico and Central America is described and figured. The generic characterization is modified to allow inclusion of the new species. A key and distributional information are provided for all three species in the genus. /// Se describe e ilustra a Cymatoderella morula especie nueva de Mxico y Centro-amrica. Se modifica la definicin del gnero para permitir la inclusin de la nueva especie. Se provee, adems, una clave para la identificacin e informacin sobre la distribucin de las tres especies del gnero. 
41314181|The familial placement of the often-confused genera Escalerina Bolvar y Pieltain and Paulusiella Lbl are established to be Dascillidae: Karumiinae and Elateridae incertae sedis, respectively. Escalerina is placed in synonymy with Karumia Escalera, new synonymy, as are Drilocephalus Pic, new synonymy, and Zarudniola Semenov and Martynov.Selasia sweihana Geisthardt is transferred to Paulusiella Lbl as Paulusiella sweihana (Geisthardt), new combination. The membership and history of the genera are reviewed.
3999885|Ctenocolum janzeni females glue their eggs to the surface of the indehiscent fruits of Piscidia mollis. The larvae, upon hatching, enter the fruit directly beneath the egg, consume about 0.75 of a seed while molting several times and then pupate inside a single seed. The adults leave through the seed coat and then the pod valve. Under optimum conditions, and as long as seeds are available, C. janzeni continues to reproduce in culture. At least 3 generations were completed and 29.9% of the seeds collected were consumed. No parasitoids were reared from any of the cultures. It is suggested that, because Piscidia mollis occurs in fairly dense stands, host and host plant scarcity due to diversity and spatial distribution does not account for the lack of parasitoids. The parasitoids may be absent because (1) we are observing a period after a drastic reduction in the bruchid population and the parasitoids have not yet returned; or (2) the coevolutionary race has been temporarily won by the bruchids due to a buildup of resistance by the bruchids to parasitoids.
4009323|A new species, Metophthalmus cuba, is described from Cuba. It is compared to the closely related M. americanus Motschulsky.
4007977|Extrapolation from data about canopy insects collected by fogging methods together with estimates of tropical plant host specificity indicate that one hectare of unrich seasonal forest in Panama may have in excess of 41,000 species of arthropods. Further extrapolation of available data based on known relative richness of insect Orders and canopy richness leads to the conclusion that current estimates of Arthropod species numbers are grossly underestimated; that there could be as many as 30 million species extant globally, not 1.5 million as usually estimated.
4009522| In North America, Helophorus arcticus Brown inhabits the seashore and tidal embayments of the eastern Arctic and because of its distribution is considered to be a halophile. New evidence, including the substrate chemistry of the habitat and the associated fauna and flora at Kuujjuaq, northern Qubec, suggests that the designation of H. arcticus as a halophile is incorrect. Fossils of H. arcticus occur in Pleistocene deposits in the mid-latitudes of North America and their distribution along the margin of the Laurentide Icesheet is easier to understand if the species is not a halophile. 
4008128|Exomella merickeli n. sp. is described from Idaho and Clearwater counties, Idaho. New distribution records and host preference data are provided for E. pleuralis (Casey), along with a floristic description of its microhabitat.
4009308|A new species of Euscelus Schoenherr from the Pacific coast of Mexico is described and illustrated. It is the smallest known eusceline weevil in the New World and is associated throughout its range with a leguminous tree in the family Fabaceae. A key separating Euscelus rufiventris, new species, from the described eusceline species of Central America is provided.
4008173|Anisotria shooki, a new genus and species of heteromerous Coleoptera, is described from numerous specimens attracted to the terpenoid compound, cantharidin, in north central Idaho and the extreme west central region of Montana. Anatomical features of the adults suggest that Anisotria is closely related to the pyrochroid genus Pedilus Fischer von Waldheim. A striking similarity in antennal structure suggests that Anisotria may also be rather closely related to the Miocene fossil, Lithomacratria Wickham. The pyrochroid subfamily Pedilinae is expanded to include Pedilus, Anisotria and Lithomacratria, and a key to the genera is presented.
4008663| Se presenta el ciclo biolgico y la morfologa del primero y ltimo estadios larvales de Pectinibruchus longiscutus. Se describe la manera que fijan las hembras de P. longiscutus sus huevos a las frutas verdes de los hospederos Prosopis argentina y P. strombulifera, y tambin el mtodo empleado por la larva del primero estadio para emerger del huevo y entrar en estas frutas. Se describe los caracteres morfolgicos diagnsticos de las especies, especialmente stos como la longitud de las patas y la placa protorcica del primero estadio larval. Se compara y se discute las diferencias entre las larvas de P. longiscutus y ellas del gnero Rhipibruchus. /// The life cycle and the morphology of the first and last larval instars of Pectinibruchus longiscutus are presented. The means by which the females of Pectinibruchus longiscutus glue eggs to the green fruit of the plant hosts, Prosopis argentina and Prosopis strombulifera, and the method used by the first instar larva to emerge from the egg and enter these fruits are described. Diagnostic morphological traits of the species, especially those such as the length of the legs and the prothoracic plate of the first larval instar, are described. The differences between the larvae of P. longiscutus and those of the genus Rhipibruchus are compared and discussed. 
4009150| Trochoideus desjardinsi Gurin (Endomychidae: Trochoideinae) is recorded in Florida, U.S.A., and is the first record for this species from the New World. 
40664376|Athous (Orthathous) yozgatiensis Kabalak and Sert, new species, from Yozgat, Turkey is described. Photograph of the adult, drawings of the antenna and aedeagus, a key to the new and closely related species, a distribution map, and differential diagnosis table are given. The new species is similar to Athous kovancii Platia and Athous fragariae Platia and Kovanci, but is distinguished clearly by the second antennal segment slightly longer than wide, third antennal segment longer than second, and broadly rounded apex of parameres.
4009922| Trichaptus Pascoe is a genus of broad-nosed weevils (Curculionidae: Entiminae: Naupactini) endemic to Brazil with a single species, T. mutillarius (Perty), that resembles wasps of the family Mutillidae (Hymenoptera), particularly those of the tropical genera Traumatomutilla Andr and Hoplomutilla Ashmead. Based on morphological characters of the antennae, eyes, mouthparts, legs, and female and male genitalia, Trichaptus is closely related to Briarius [Fischer de Waldheim] (syn. of Lamprocyphus Marshall). The purpose of this contribution is to redescribe Trichaptus, to diagnose its only known species, and to illustrate its diagnostic features, including genitalia and mouthparts. This information is necessary to undertake a phylogenetic analysis of the whole Naupactini tribe, our main research goal. /// Trichaptus Pascoe es un gnero monotpico de gorgojos de rostro corto (Curculionidae: Entiminae: Naupactini) endmico de Brasil, cuya especie T. mutillarius (Perty), se asemeja a las avispas de la familia Mutillidae (Hymenoptera), especialmente aqullas de los gneros tropicales Traumatomutilla Andr and Hoplomutilla Ashmead. Trichaptus est estrechamente relacionado con Briarius [Fischer de Waldheim] (syn. de Lamprocyphus Marshall) sobre la base de caracteres morfolgicos de las antenas, los ojos, las piezas bucales, las patas y los genitales de hembras y machos. El propsito de esta contribucin es redescribir el gnero Trichaptus, brindar una diagnosis de la nica especie conocida e ilustrar sus caractersticas diagnsticas, incluyendo aqullas pertenecientes a las piezas bucales y los genitales. Esta informacin es necesaria para llevar a cabo un anlisis filogentico de la tribu Naupactini, objetivo principal de nuestras investigaciones. 
3999894|Relationships among the New World members of Mecynotarsus are discussed, and a key to the New World species is included. The candidus- and schenklingi-groups are designated and defined. The candidus-group contains M. candidus LeConte and M. delicatulus Horn. The schenklingi-group contains M. schenklingi Pic. Three new species are added to Werner's elegans-group: M. alvarado from Veracruz, Mexico; M. vafer from Nayarit to Sonora, Mexico; and M. falcatus from Texas and Colorado. Notoxus guayanensis Pic is newly placed in synonymy with M. schenklingi, and Notoxus vianay Pic is placed as Incertae sedis in Mecynotarsus. New records for various species are included. Mecynotarsus balsasensis Werner was collected in numbers at a cantharidin trap for the first such record for the genus.
3999852|The life history and habits of Cylindrocopturus quercus (Say), a curculionid associate of common ragweed, Ambrosia artemisiifolia L., are discussed. Adults began appearing in early June with peak populations emerging in late June. Eggs were deposited in the basal half of a stem near nodes. Larvae tunneled and fed upon cortical, vascular, and pith parenchyma tissues. The mature larvae overwintered in a state of temperature-induced quiescence. Pupation occurred during the spring in specially prepared chambers located at the ends of larval burrows. The weevil is univoltine in northeastern Ohio. Diagnostic descriptions and illustrations of the immature stages are presented for the first time.
4008449| Inca clathrata quesneli is described as a new subspecies from Trinidad, West Indies. New distribution records are given for Inca clathrata sommeri Westwood that extend its range northward in Mexico by approximately 200 km and southward into Colombia and Ecuador in South America west of the Andes. A brief analysis of the historical biogeography of Inca clathrata (Olivier) suggests vicariance (Andean uplift) to explain the separation of the clathrata/sommeri subspecies lineage, and dispersal to explain the separation and isolation of the quesneli lineage on Trinidad and occurrence of sommeri in Mesoamerica. /// Se decribe al Inca clathrata quesneli como una nueva subespecie de Trinidad, Antillas. Nuevos registros de distribucin se dan para el Inca clathrata sommeri Westwood que extiende su distribucin hacia el norte en Mexico por aproximadamente 200 km y hacia el sur dentro de Colombia y Ecuador en Sud America, al occidente de los Andes. Un breve analisis de la biogeografia histrica del Inca clathrata (Olivier) sugiere el establecimiento de una barrera (un levantamiento andino) para explicar la separacin y el aislamiento del linage quesneli en Trinidad y la presencia del sommeri en Mesoamerica. 
4543001|A review of the genus Sapotes Casey (Curculionidae: Entiminae) is presented. Three new species from the central and southern Chihuahuan desert region of Mexico are described: Sapotes caseyi new species, Sapotes setosus new species, and Sapotes sordidus new species. A key is presented to identify all five species of the genus, along with observations on the geographical distribution and host associations of the newly described species.
4009616|The long-lipped beetle family Telegeusidae is reported for the first time from Texas and is represented in that state by the new species Telegeusis texensis Fleenor and Taber. The biology and literature of this rare genus are reviewed.
4009389|A listing is presented of food sources, substrates and containers that have been used for rearing selected species of the predatory staphylinid subfamilies Paederinae and Staphylininae (including Xantholinini and Diochini). Rearing methods and materials used by the author for rearing 29 species in 16 genera are given along with suggestions on working with parental adults.
41316642|An ecological study of the geographical distribution of aquatic Adephaga and Polyphaga (Coleoptera) in the mountains of northern Tunisia was carried out with an analysis of the effect of altitude on the distribution of 123 species collected from 64 sampling sites. Species richness was analyzed at different altitudinal levels and the indicator species were determined by establishing their altitude profile in terms of reciprocal species-factor information. Species richness decreases with increasing altitude. Thirty representative species are placed into three groups: species present along the entire altitudinal gradient; species present at high altitude; and species occurring at low altitude.
4008225|Cheilotoma beldei n. sp. is described from Turkey. It is most similar to Cheilotoma musciformis Goeze. A key to separate it from other known species of Cheilotoma is presented. A lectotype designation for C. fulvicollis Sahlberg and taxonomic notes are included.
4008237|Life history of each of the stages of Caryedes brasiliensis Thunberg is discussed. First and final larval instars are described and photographed (SEM) and/or illustrated. Characters described are those of the body, head, antenna, clypeus, labrum, epipharynx, mandible, maxilla, labium, leg, spiracle, and anal sulcus. Larval sensillar structures are identified and functional descriptions are included in a discussion of larval behavior.
4009375|Three new species in the Aphthona crypta group of species are described (A. cryptomorpha China, Yunnan, A. pseudocrypta Central Nepal, and A. schereri Western Nepal) from the Oriental region and A. crypta Scherer is redescribed. A key to species groups in Aphthona Chevrolat, discussion of their relationships and a key to species of Aphthona crypta group are provided.
4009473|The morphology and chaetotaxy of larval instars of I. biguttulus Germar, I. pleuriticus LeConte and I. discedens Sharp are described and illustrated. Identification keys are provided for these and other known larvae of North American species. Multivariate analysis showed that larvae can also be identified through the use of several mensural characters.
4000004|Southwestern Iran was surveyed for water beetles, and records for the following are reported herein: Haliplidae (2 genera, 2 species); Dytiscidae (16 genera, 24 species); and Gyrinidae (2 genera, 2 species). Records for Hydrophilidae (10 genera, 34 mostly unidentified species) are summarized in a simple list.
3999871|Several West Indian species of Coccinellidae, mostly scale predators, are described or discussed with host data recorded. Five tribes are represented in this material and dealt with as follows. Microweisini; key to species of Coccidophilus, Coccidophilus cariba, n. sp., described. Scymnillini; key to genera, Viridigloba imitator, new genus and species described, key to species of Zagloba, Scymnus (Nephus) aeneipennis Sicard transferred to Zagloba. Scymnini; key to genera, key to species of Nephaspis, Nephaspis nigra, n. sp., described. Cryptognathini; Delphastopsis amazonica Casey transferred to Calloeneis, Calloeneis bennetti, n. sp., described. Ortaliini; new color form of Zenoria emarginata Gordon placed in key.
4008342|Dyscinetus imitator is described as new from Grand Cayman Island, West Indies, and D. ornaticaudus is described as new from Colombia.
4009192|All 18 species of Merobruchus Bridwell for which we have data attach eggs to the outside of the fruit valves of their host plants (Fabaceae: Mimosoideae). The adults emerge through the pod valves. There is a trend for Merobruchus to feed in partially dehiscent pods because species of Merobruchus feed in 40 species of hosts with partially dehiscent pods and feed in only four species of hosts with indehiscent pods. Based on numbers of host species, M. insolitus (Sharp) (19 hosts) and M. sonorensis Kingsolver (13 hosts) are generalist species of Merobruchus. Merobruchus columbinus (Sharp), M. hastatus Kingsolver, M. major (Fall), M. politus Kingsolver, M. solitarius (Sharp), M. vacillator (Sharp) and M. xanthopygus Kingsolver are specialists with one host each. Other species range from two species of hosts (M. santarosae Kingsolver) to eight species (M. placidus (Horn)). Merobruchus julianus (Horn), M. terani Kingsolver, and M. placidus (Horn) feed only in several species of Acacia Miller, but only two species of these Acacia are the same. Species of Merobruchus range from the southwestern United States to southern Brazil and Argentina, including Mexico, Central America and the West Indies. This is the first report that several species are common in Honduras, Panama, Colombia, Venezuela and Brazil.
4009320|Elaphropus parvulus (Dejean) is a small introduced European carabid beetle previously recorded in North America from British Columbia, Idaho, and Washington. The first published Oregon record is noted with additional Idaho and Washington records, along with habitat data and associated carabid species (including Trachypachidae). North American collecting data indicate this species is primarily found in open lacustrine or riparian areas, in sharp contrast to the anthropogenic habitats favored by almost all other European carabid species introduced into North America. The original site of introduction appears to be Seattle, Washington.
4007962|The fecal material produced by arboreal sloths on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, occurs in the leaf litter and is dry, hard, and pelletized. An ectocommensal scarabaeid of the sloth, Uroxys gorgon Arrow, can utilize this material only in a short period immediately after it is deposited. A seed predator, Notiobia parilis Bates (Carabidae), can survive on the contents of older dung pellets.
4009918|Eleven species of weevils native to North America, Acalyptus carpini (Herbst), Tachyerges ephippiatus (Say), Bagous transversus LeConte, Ceutorhynchus omissus Fall, Ceutorhynchus squamatus LeConte, Auleutes nebulosus (LeConte), Perigaster liturata (Dietz), Stethobaris ovata (LeConte), Carphonotus testaceus Casey, Rhyncolus brunneus Mannerheim and Pissodes fiskei Hopkins, and seven species introduced to North America, Sitophilus oryzae (Linnaeus), Sitophilus granarius (Linnaeus), Gymnetron pascuorum (Gyllenhal), Gymnetron tetrum (Fabricius), Tychius meliloti Stephens, Phyllobius oblongus (Linnaeus), and Polydrusus sericeus (Schaller) are reported for the first time in Nova Scotia based on specimens from Cape Breton Island. New records for native species reflect increased collecting and attention to the fauna of Nova Scotia. Historically, many introduced insects first established populations in North America in the Canadian Maritimes and in fact about 40% of the species listed in the most recent checklist of weevils are introduced. The introduced species new to Nova Scotia reported here apparently established populations elsewhere and subsequently expanded their ranges into Nova Scotia.
4009810|The new species Zabrotes maesi is described from Granada, Nicaragua. Zabrotes maesi is closely related to Z. subfasciatus (Boheman) and Z. sylvestris Romero and Johnson. The external surfaces and male genitalia are illustrated for Z. maesi and compared with the other two species. Seventeen other species of Bruchidae not reported from Nicaragua are listed along with their known hosts.
4010038| A history of taxonomic descriptions of tiger beetles (Cicindelidae) is presented from 1758, when the first species were described by Carl von Linn, to present day. The number of new species over 50 year periods shows an irregularly increasing species number that soon will exceed 2,600. Possible causes of these irregular patterns include economic and political upheavals that affected collecting and the near monopoly of descriptions by one or a few researchers during several periods. The growing influence of tiger beetles as models for patterns of use in biology, conservation, and general biodiversity are also discussed. 
4007933|New biological and/or geographical distribution data are given for 203 species of Buprestidae in the following genera: Acmaeodera, Acmaeoderopsis, Actenodes, Agaeocera, Agrilus, Anambodera, Anthaxia, Brachys, Buprestis, Chalcophora, Chalcophorella, Chrysobothris, Cinyra, Dicerca, Eupristocerus, Leiopleura, Mastogenius, Melanophila, Nanularia, Pachyschelus, Poecilonota, Polycesta, Ptosima, Taphrocerus, Trachykele, Trichinorhipis, Tyndaris, and Xenorhipis. A discussion of variation and habitat is presented for Anthaxia hatchi Barr. The genus Leiopleura [L. otero (Fisher)] is recorded from the USA for the first time, distinguished from related genera in this country, and figured. The only known host for Trichinorhipis knulli Barr is recorded along with data on its biology and variation.
3999714|A method for rearing large numbers of immature ground beetles is described. This method was successful for beetles from various northern Nearctic habitats, representing more than 80 species in 29 genera. Details are given for collection and care of gravid females, oviposition, incubation, rearing, and preservation. Success depends on providing a suitable environment, meticulous care, and perseverance.
3999964|The status of Pleocoma staff Schaufuss is clarified, with P. ulkei Horn reduced to synonymy. The replacement names P. edwardsii LeConte and P. adjuvans Crotch are suppressed as nom. nov. pro staff. Pleocoma remota Davis is synonymized with P. oregonensis Leach, and the putative Utah localities for the genus are invalidated. P. badia Fall is expanded to include P. hirsuta Davis as a subspecies; P. venturae Linsley and P. nitida Linsley are placed in synonymy with P. badia hirsuta. Phenotypic variation and intergradation are discussed for each population. P. lucia Linsley is placed as a subspecies of P. conjungens Horn, and known biological information is summarized.
3999782| The North American species of Xestobium are reviewed, a key to species is presented, and the male genitalia are illustrated. X. gaspensis n. sp. is described from Gasp County, Quebec. 
4009584|Two species are described from the Baja California Peninsula of Mexico. Metophthalmus aalbui, new species, is described from Isla Danzante, Isla Mestiza and Isla Carmen in the Gulf of California, and Metophthalmus clarki, new species, is described from the northwest coastal area. They are compared to closely related species from the continental United States and the Baja California Peninsula. Metophthalmus rudis Fall, M. trux Fall and M. haigi Andrews are recorded from the Baja California Peninsula for the first time, and illustrations and distributional information for the three species are provided.
4009057|A new genus and species of Coroebini, Borneoscelis variegatus, from Sabah is described and illustrated. Four species of Amorphosoma Laporte are transferred to Vanroonia Obenberger: A. javana Kerremans, A. moultoni Kerremans, A. pyropyga Kerremans and A. spinipennis Kerremans. Cisseicoraebus montanus Fisher is transferred to Coroebus Laporte and Gory. Cisseis pretiosissima Kerremans is transferred to Anocisseis Bellamy and Coroebus rajah Fisher is proposed as its junior synonym. A list of the coroebine genera of the Malesian region is given.
4009495|Monnecles, new genus, is proposed for Heterops apollinarii Gounelle. Monnecles apollinarii (Gounelle), new combination, and the holotype of Heterops loreyi (Duponchel), type species of Heterops Blanchard, are redescribed and illustrated.
4000000|Poeciloxestia Lane 1965, (Cerambycini) was originally proposed for P. melzeri Lane (type-species) and P. paraensis Lane. This study expands Poeciloxestia to include 16 additional taxa. The current taxonomic status of related genera is discussed. A brief historical account of the genus and a key to species are presented, adult morphology is discussed, all taxa are fully described and illustrated, and a hypothetical phylogeny is proposed. The following 8 species are described as new: P. lanei, rugosicollis, parallela, minuta, hirsutiventris, carlyslei, travassossi, and lanceolata. The following 8 species are new combinations in Poeciloxestia: Coleoxestia ochrotaenia Bates 1870, sagittaria Bates 1872, dorsalis Thomson 1860, lateralis Erichson 1874, bivittata Buquet 1852, elegans Gory 1833, suturalis Perty 1832 (revalidated), and elegans signatipennis Melzer 1923 (raised to full species). Coleoxestia omega Zajciw 1967 is placed as a subjective junior synonym of P. bivittata Buquet.
4008012|The relative abundance of Leptinotarsa decemlineata and L. texana (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) on five species of Solanum in the Austin, Travis Co., Texas, area is reported. Significant overlap of adult occurrence on plants was observed, but different species of Solanum are preferred for oviposition. Both Leptinotarsa species have been greatly affected by human activity of the past 150 years. A slight re-interpretation of historical changes in the range of L. decemlineata is presented. An analogous but much more restricted range expansion has occurred for L. texana.
4000155|Males of Monochamus scutellatus (Say) have longer antennae than females, longer protibiae, and longer protarsal hairs. The species breeds in dead and dying conifers, where large numbers of adults congregate. There is a prolonged (20-40 min) pair-bond involving repeated copulation and oviposition. A male paired with a female uses his antennae to ward off other males. The elongated protibiae and fringed protarsi are evidently adaptations enabling the male to hold on to the female. An evolutionary hypothesis is suggested to account for the prolonged pair-bond in M. scutellatus.
4010046| Two endogean carabid species of Typhlocharis in the T. gomezi species group are described, Typhlocharis passosi, new species and Typhlocharis fozcoaensis, new species. This is the first record for Portugal of species belonging to the gomezi group. We provide diagnostic characters for these species, descriptions of the new species, affinities to putative relatives and a key for the identification of the gomezi species group. /// Neste trabalho so descritas duas espcies de colepteros carabdeos endgeos de Typhlocharis do grupo gomezi, Typhlocharis passosi, espcie nova e Typhlocharis fozcoaensis, espcie nova. Este  o primeiro registo de espcies daquele grupo para Portugal. Este estudo faculta as principais caractersticas para diagnosticar as duas novas espcies, as suas afinidades com as formas mais prximas e uma chave de identificao das espcies conhecidas do grupo gomezi. 
3999600|Considerable confusion exists in the literature and in the general interpretation of the term "stria". This terminology is discussed, and a more precise definition is provided.
4008556|Kheper nigroaeneus (Boheman) is a large diurnal, ball-rolling dung beetle, which occurs in warm to hot, summer rainfall areas of southern Africa. Construction of feeding and breeding balls is described, emphasising the adept use of pelleted dung. Pairs often co-operated in constructing a brood ball at the dung pad. Food balls rolled by individual males or females were smaller than brood balls rolled by individuals or pairs of beetles. Males released pheromone by adopting a headstand position and brushing their hind legs along the abdomen. Neither mating nor pheromone release were observed at the dung pad. Males released pheromone at sites where they had buried a brood ball or at sites where they had no dung or only the remains of a food ball. The significance of this reproductive strategy is discussed, and it is suggested that releasing pheromone at a site with no brood ball may enable a male to assess the reproductive status of females in the population before he makes a brood ball.
4007973|Six species of Phaleria occur in the West Indies and circum-Caribbean region. One of these, P. thinophila, is described for the first time, and eight previously described species are reduced to junior synonymy. Illustrations and a key are provided as identification aids for distinguishing the known species of the region.
4009030|Mycterus marmoratus, new species, from the Archbold Biological Station, Highlands Co., Florida, is described. Among North American species of Mycterus, this new species has distinct external and genitalic characters. A key to North American species and a checklist of world species of Mycterus is given. Male genitalia are illustrated for all species of the subgenera Mycterinus (except M. elongata Hopping) and Mycterellus.
4008082|Two new species of genus Dirodes Pascoe are reported, the first records of this genus from India. The characters of Dirodes Pascoe are summarized, and a key to all three so far described species is given.
41314176|The Asian darkling beetle, Strongylium cultellatum Mklin, is reported for the first time from the Western Hemisphere based on a series of specimens collected in Miami-Dade County, Florida. Collection data for S. cultellatum are summarized, and a key to the species of Strongylium Kirby in Florida and habitus illustrations are provided.
4009443|Fruhstorferia (Kibakoganea) patricia, new species is described from the Dawna Ra Mountains, Karen State, Myanmar (Burma). The holotype, its parameres, a male paratype, the parameres of two other myanmarese species of Fruhstorferia Kolbe and a male Didrepanephorus mucronatus Arrow are illustrated. Kibakoganea Nagai is returned to its original subgeneric status and its nomenclature is discussed.
4008216|Agonum muiri Liebherr, new species, is described from the Sierra Nevada of California. This species is polymorphic for flight wing configuration, with brachypterous forms restricted to the southern portions of its range. Absence of brachypterous individuals near the northern limit of distribution suggests more recent colonization of habitats in that area. Agonum pacificum Casey is recognized as valid, and a lectotype is designated. This species is found in the coastal ranges of California, from the Bay Area south to the Sierra San Pedro Martir, Baja California. Lindroth's (1966) key is modified to facilitate determination of the following Agonum species from California: A. muiri, A. pacificum, A decorum (Say), A. fallianum (Leng), A. fossigerum Dejean, and A. subsericeum (LeConte).
4009585|The discovery of a new species of Spilodiscus Lewis in Florida prompted a reanalysis of phylogenetic relationships among the known species. Spilodiscus skelleyi new species is unusual among species of Spilodiscus in its black elytra, small size, and dentate mandibles. While S. skelleyi shares the last two of these features with the Gulf coastal S. flohri Lewis, differences in aedeagal structure and external setation argue against a close relationship between these two species. Many characters that have been considered phylogenetically informative in this group possibly are quite plastic in the course of evolution.
4000025|This species is recorded from light trap collections in Norman, Cleveland County, Oklahoma, with a peak abundance in July and August. Notes on surface structure as shown with SEM are given.
4009447| New species of Phyllophaga (Phyllophaga) not included in any known group of species are described from 11 Mexican localities as follows: P. tojolabala, new species, and P. chamula, new species, from the temperate pine and oak forests located between 1,800 and 2,400 m altitude in the mountains of northern Chiapas; P. xkumuka, new species, from tropical deciduous forests between 800 and 1,200 m altitude in the mountains of eastern Chiapas; and P. pseudocarus, new species, from the tropical rain forests and tropical deciduous forests in the lowlands between 85 and 170 m of altitude of Campeche and Yucatan. Drawings of male genital capsules, tarsal claws, and female genital plates are provided. /// Se describen cuatro especies nuevas de Phyllophaga (Phyllophaga) procedentes de 11 localidades mexicanas: P. tojolabala, especie nueva, y P. chamula, especie nueva, de los bosques de encino y pino de las montaas del norte de Chiapas establecidos entre los 1,800 y 2,400 m de altitud; P. xkumuka, especie nueva, de los bosques tropicales caducifolios de las montaas del este de Chiapas ubicados entre los 800 y 1,200 m de altitud; y P. pseudocarus, especie nueva, de los bosques tropicales perennifolios y caducifolios propios de las tierras bajas de Campeche y Yucatn, situados entre los 85 y 170 m de altitud. Debido a la singular combinacin de caracteres que exhiben, ninguna de stas cuatro especies puede asignarse a alguno de los grupos de especies conocidos. Se incluyen ilustraciones de las cpsulas genitales masculinas, de las placas genitales femeninas y de las uas tarsales. 
4008926|Amblyterus paluma, new species, is described from the Paluma area, northeastern Queensland; it and A. paradoxus Carne are incorporated in modified couplets in the key to Amblyterus spp.
4009347|New combinations and new synonymies are provided for species of Pytho Latreille (Pythidae) and Cycloderus Solier (Pyrochroidae: Pilipalpinae): Pytho americanus Kirby, 1837 is a replacement name for the junior, primary homonym Tenebrio planus Olivier, 1795 (nec T. planus Quensel, 1790); Elattoderes Blanchard, 1853 (described in Cantharidae) is a junior synonym of Cycloderus Solier, 1851; Elattoderes maculicollis Blanchard, 1853 is a senior synonym of Cycloderus magellanicus Philippi, 1862, producing the new combination Cycloderus maculicollis (Blanchard).
4008958|Seven new species of Tropicus are described from South America. Brief notes on the genus and its species are also included.
3999553|Cinyra parafrontalis n. sp. is described from Yucatan, Mexico, with notes on 3 other Mexican species of Cinyra.
4008443|New biological and/or geographical distribution data are given for 93 species of Scolytidae in the following genera, principally from Mexico: Stegomerus, Scolytogenes, Hypocryphalus, Trypophloeus, Hypothenemus, Cryptocarenus, Dendroterus, Araptus, Pseudopityophthorus, Conophthorus, Pityophthorus, Gnathotrichus, Tricolus, Amphicranus, Monarthrum, Microcorthylus, Corthylocurus, and Corthylus. The genus Trypophloeus is reported from Mexico for the first time.
40983315|Three species of the genus Sanfilippodytes Franciscolo, 1979 (Sanfilippodytes adelardi [Rochette, 1983], Sanfilippodytes bidessoides [Leech, 1941], and Sanfilippodytes setifer Roughley and Larson, 2000) have been described from ponds or rain pools in the town of Caspar, California. These species were found to be strongly associated with the pygmy forest of Mendocino, California. The soils of the pygmy forest are strongly podsolized and nearly impenetrable to water. As a result, rain water pools and quickly becomes acidified. All three species were found in these acidic pools, where they are often quite abundant. The small number of specimens collected prior to this study was most likely a result of having an inadequate understanding of the habitat.
4009398|Viridimicus omoaensis Jameson is described from Honduras. This species extends the distribution of the genus from Guatemala southwards in Mesoamerica. The characters that define the genus are expanded to include V. omoaensis. A key to the seven species in the genus is provided as well as additional locality notes for V. aurescens (Bates) and V. cyanochlorus Jameson. /// Se describe Viridimicus omoaensis Jameson de Honduras. Esta especie extiende la distribucion del genero de Guatemala hacia el sur en Mesoamerica. Se amplian los caracteres que definen el genero para incluir V. omoaensis. Se proveen una clave para las siete especies en el genero y notas de localidades adicionales para V. aurescens (Bates) y V. cyanochlorus Jameson.
3999409|Several hundred adult Perothops witticki LeConte were observed dropping from a live oak tree (Quercus agrifolia) in southern California. This and other observations suggest that aggregations of this species may be annual occurrences at specific sites.
4010054|Germarostes (Germarostes) carltoni, new species, keys to the subgenus Germarostes Paulian in Howden and Gill (2000). It has ten-segmented antennae, rounded anterior clypeal edge and slightly thickened outer hind tibial apices typical of the nominate subgenus but differs from all known species in the genus in being flightless and possessing very long, slender legs. This new species is described, figured and a brief discussion of its placement in the genus is given.
4009265|Platynus indecentis, new species, is described from northeastern North America, and Platynus cazieri, new species, and Platynus cohni, new species, are described from Arizona. Platynus indecentis is a cryptic sibling of the widespread P. decentis (Say), and is known to date only from sphagnum bog habitats. Platynus cazieri appears closely related to P. aphaedrus Chaudoir of Veracruz, Oaxaca, and Chiapas, Mexico, whereas P. cohni is considered a member of the subgenus Trapezodera Casey. Other Trapezodera species range from the Transvolcanic Sierra of Mexico south to Chiapas. A key to the species of Platynus Bonelli north of Mexico, and distributional notes for species occurring in the southwestern United States are provided. Platynus brunneomarginatus (Mannerheim) exhibits color polymorphism characterized by an abrupt transition zone in the mountains surrounding the southern end of the Central Valley, California.
4009830| Larvae of the leaf beetle Eurypedus nigrosignatus Boheman carry fecula and cast skins on their dorsa forming a protective device, commonly called a fecal shield. Survival from egg to adult eclosion, natural enemies, and relation to its hostplant, Cordia curassavica (Jacq.) Roem. and Schult. (Boraginaceae) were assessed. Overall survival was 2%; eggs and fourth instars were less susceptible to enemies than were early larval stages and pupae. Predation accounted for the low survival of larvae, whereas parasitism for a low success rate of pupae. Six different predators including three spiders (Arachnida), a pentatomid, a reduviid (Heteroptera), and an ant (Hymenoptera) were observed. Reared parasitoids included a chalcidid (Hymenoptera) and a tachinid (Diptera). The fecal shield increases in size throughout larval development; however, the shield of prepupal individuals is partially lost. Shield chemical content very closely reassambles that of a particular host plant. Although the lower terpenoid concentration (per weight) in shields decreases with larval development, bigger shields as a unit contain larger amounts. Adults spend the Panamanian dry season buried in the ground directly under host plants. Eurypedus nigrosignatus is under intense selective pressures in Central Panama. /// Las larvas del escarabajo Eurypedus nigrosignatus Boheman acumulan heces y mudas sobre su dorso formando un artefacto defensivo lllamado el manto fecal. La sobrevivencia desde la deposicin de huevos hasta la eclosin de adultos, los enemigos naturales, y su relation con su planta hospedera Cordia curassavica (Jacq.) Roem. and Schult. (Boraginaceae) fue evaluada. La sobrevivencia total fue de 2%; los huevos y el cuarto estadio fueron menos susceptibles a los enemigos que los estadios larvales ms jvenes y las pupas. La depredacin fue el principal factor en la sobrevivencia baja de las larvas, mientras que el parasitismo por el bajo rendimiento de las pupas. Se observaron seis depredadores diferentes incluyendo tres especies de araas (Arachnida), un pentatomido, un reduvido (Heteroptera) y una especie de hormiga (Hymenoptera). Los parasitoides criados en el laboratorio incluyen un chalcido (Hymenoptera) y un taqunido (Diptera). El manto fecal aumento de tamao a travs del desarrollo larvario; sin embargo, el manto se pierde en los estados prepupales. El contenido qumico de los mantos es muy similar al de plantas hospederas particulares. Aunque la concentracin (por peso) de terpenoids en los mantos disminuye con el desarrollo larvario, los mantos ms grandes como una unidad contienen cantidades ms altas. Los adultos pasan la temporada seca panamea enterrados en el suelo alrededor de las races su planta hospedera. Eurypedus nigrosignatus est bajo presiones selectivas intensas en Panam central. 
4010071|A new subgenus, Amblyodontomagdalis Lu and Legalov, and two new species, Magdalis (Amblyodontomagdalis) flatus Lu and Zhang and Magdalis (Laemosaccidius) dorsalis Lu and Zhang are described from northern China. A key to subgenera of Magdalis Germar of the world is provided. All type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing, China.
4008336|Curimopsis moosilauke n.sp. is described from the northeastern United States, Alaska, and eastern and northern Canada. A key to the described Nearctic species of Curimopsis Ganglbauer is provided.
4008413|Apion (Trichapion) leporinum n. sp. is described from specimens collected on its host, Dalea leporina (Ait.) Bullock. The larval feeding habits and parasitism of the species are discussed.
3999523|Polyphylla Harris is first recorded from Wisconsin, represented by P. hammondi LeConte. The deme sampled is geographically disjunct from the continuous species range and is recorded from an environmental refugium in an area commonly called the Wisconsin Desert. On the bases of this new record and 4 other relict hammondi demes, it is proposed that this species 1) invaded as far east as Wisconsin via the Pliocene Steppe, 2) retreated during the Pleistocene, 3) secondarily invaded eastwards via the postglacial xerothermic prairie peninsula and, 4) secondarily retreated westwards in response to destruction of the xerothermic prairie leaving western relict demes in unique eastern environmental refugia.
4009725|Over hundred years have passed since Syntelia davidis Fairmaire, 1889, was reported from China (Moupin, now called Baoxing), but it was neglected and not included in any subsequent works treating the beetle fauna of China. This paper reports the rediscovery of the family Synteliidae in China and describes two species, Syntelia sinica Zhou, new species, and S. mazuri Zhou, new species, based on specimens collected in Sichuan province. Taxonomic history and current status of this beetle family are briefly reviewed, and a key to Asian species is given. Type specimens are deposited in Institute of Zoology, Academia Sinica.
4009363|Podolasia involucris Howden, new species, a flightless species from Nuevo Leon, Mexico, is described and figured. Podolasia emarginata Howden is now known to occur in Nuevo Leon, Mexico, and not in Utah, USA, as previously stated. Relationships of both species to others in the genus are briefly discussed.
3999936|A new species, Agra lavernae Erwin, from Cerro Campana, Panama is described and illustrated. Agra species are numerous in the Neotropical region yet very few specimens have been collected. Most papers previously published did not provide keys or syntheses. A trend curve shows that taxonomy on the group was done in plateaus. Past classification placed Agra and its sister group Agridia in the tribe Agrini, but here the two are regarded as Lebiini because of defense mechanism structure. Agra species are forest canopy specialists, but their food, oviposition habits, and behavior are unknown. Sexual dimorphisms in Agra species are numerous.
4008519| Four species of cacti (Cactaceae) from the peninsula of Baja California, Mexico, are newly reported as hosts of the adult beetle Moneilema michelbacheri: Opuntia echinocarpa, O. molesta, O. cholla and O. prolifera. Larvae of the beetle were also reared from root crown and lower stem portions of O. echinocarpa. The status of O. bigelovii, previously reported as the host plant for M. michelbacheri, is discussed. /// Cuatro especies de cactceas (Opuntia echinocarpa, O. molesta, O. cholla y O. prolifera) se informan por primera vez como hospederas de los adultos de Moneilema michelbacheri para la pennsula de Baja California. Larvas del escarabajo se criaron utilizando pices de las raices y las partes inferiores del tallo de O. echinocarpa. Se discute el status de O. bigelovii la que ha sido informada como hospedera de los adultos de M. michelbacheri. 
4008763| New synonymies of Reichenbachia Leach from eastern North America are presented: Bryaxis bicolor Brendel (= R. subsimilis Casey); R. borealis Casey (= R. distans Casey); B. complectens LeConte (= R. dilatipes Schaeffer, = R. latipes Fletcher); B. divergens LeConte (= B. cribricollis Brendel, = R. furtiva Casey, = R. fusciventris Casey); B. gemmifer LeConte (= B. canadensis Brendel); B. gracilis Casey (= R. ursina Casey); B. litoralis Brendel (= R. turba Park); R. peregrinator Casey (= R. shenefelti Park); B. polita Brendel (= R. procera Casey, = pygidialis Raffray); B. puncticollis LeConte (= R. howdeni Park); B. radians LeConte (= B. trigona LeConte, = R. pluridentata Park); and B. tumida LeConte (= R. pattersoni Park). Male genitalia are figured for the species that have not been previously illustrated. Lectotypes are designated for R. subsimilis Casey, R. borealis Casey, B. complectens LeConte, R. furtiva Casey, B. gracilis Casey, and R. peregrinator Casey. The 33 species of Reichenbachia from eastern North America are listed with state and provincial records and are placed in the groups of Bowman, and R. rubricunda (Aub) is placed as incertae sedis. 
4009622|Epitragosoma arenaria new genus and new species, an unusual brachypterous beetle in the tribe Epitragini, is described. It is locally abundant in the Llano Estacado area of western Texas on stems of the dune-stabilizing grass, Panicum havardii Vasey.
4008327|Condylops Redtenbacher is recorded for the first time from the New World with the description of a new subgenus and species, C. (Neocondylops) obrieni, from Florida.
4008146|Stator subaeneus is confirmed as a member of a "scattered seed guild" and S. vittatithorax is the first Stator to be reported as a member of a "mature pod guild." S. generalis is now known to feed in seeds of Enterolobium cyclocarpum in Venezuela, the first record outside of Panama. In addition to the above species of Stator, new host records are reported for S. aegrotus, S. championi, S. limbatus, S. mexicanus, S. monachus, S. pruininus, S. sordidus, S. trisignatus, and S. vachelliae.
4008732| Keys and diagnoses are provided for the identification of nine species of Scaphisoma from the Ozark Highland. Scaphisoma stephani Leschen and Lbl, new species, is described. Lectotypes are designated for: S. carolinae Casey, S. ornatum Fall, S. pusillum LeConte, S. suturale LeConte, S. impunctatum Reitter, and S. terminatum Melsheimer. New synonymies are: S. arkansana Casey (= S. carolinae), S. obesula Casey (= S. impunctatum), and S. evanescens Casey and Baeocera punctipennis Blatchley (= S. terminatum). Information about fungus hosts and distribution are provided. Discussions about terminology and nomenclature are included. 
4009534|This paper records the species richness and composition of the dung-feeding fauna within the Danum Valley Conservation Area in Sabah, Malaysian Borneo. Comparisons are made with other rainforest sites in the Neotropics, Africa, Asia and Australia. To date, ninety-seven rainforest dung beetle species have been identified from Danum samples, making this the most species-rich rainforest site yet recorded. Reasons for the high species richness measure are examined, including the comprehensive nature of the trapping programme, utilizing both baited pitfall and flight intercept traps, the resource diversity and abundance at Danum, and the presence of a rich vertebrate fauna. Comments are made on the effectiveness of the trapping programme, and the implications of these results for the measurement of species richness and diversity of other arthropod groups in tropical rainforest.
4009856|First instars hatched from eggs laid by adults of Coptotomus interrogatus (Fabricius) are described and illustrated with an emphasis on cranial morphology. Cranial horns are described as arising from within the frontoclypeal interior and not the distal margin. The distal margin of the frontoclypeus forms a short broadly-rounded nasale with a sub-rectangular labrum inflected onto the epipharynx. The cranial morphology supports a close phyletic relationship between Coptotominae and Laccophilinae.
3999420|Two new species of Corticeus from Mexico and Honduras C. coynei and C. rosei Triplehorn are described. These were collected as subcortical associates of Dendroctonus frontalis Zimm., the southern pine beetle.
4009178| The last instar larvae of M. fallax (Aub) and M. marginithorax (Perty) are described and figured, based on reared specimens from a "restinga" environment in Maric, state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
4007972|Colopteroides, a new genus of Nitidulidae, is described and illustrated. It includes only one species, C. striaticollis (Murray), formerly placed in the genus Colopterus, and it is known only from the New World tropics, Panama to Brazil. Colopteroides shares several derived characters with Colopterus, including a large, glabrous sensory region on the adoral surface of the labium, a double row of setae on the anterior margin of the prosternum, and large crescentic-shaped mesepimera. Based on these and other characters, Colopteroides and Colopterus are probable sister groups.
27571101|The third instar larva and pupa of Ancognatha scarabaeoides Erichson are described for the first time, and adults of both sexes are redescribed, to support the study of the soil white grub species assemblage in Colombia. Data on the phenology and distribution of A. scarabaeoides are included for some localities in the departments of Antioquia, Caldas and Tolima, Colombia, where it was found associated with potato fields. /// Se describen e ilustran los caracteres diagnsticos del adulto, la larva de tercer estado y la pupa de Ancognatha scarabaeoides Erichson, para diferenciarla de otras especies del ensamble de larvas escarabeiformes subterrneas en Colombia. Se incluyen datos sobre su fenologa y distribucin en algunas regiones agrcolas de los departamentos de Antioquia, Caldas y Tolima, Colombia, en donde se encuentra asociada con cultivos de papa.
4009457| The search for natural enemies of the South American tree Solanum mauritianum Scop., a major environmental weed in the high-rainfall regions of South Africa, created the opportunity to observe and study several leaf-feeding beetles from the genus Platyphora Gistel. Data on the biology and host range of three species from southern Brazil, Platyphora biforis (Germar), Platyphora conviva (Stl) and Platyphora nigronotata (Stl), and one from northeastern Argentina, Platyphora paraguana (Jacoby), were collected during their evaluation as potential biological control agents. All four species displayed similar, highly specialized biologies in the field, including viviparity, monophagy and sensitivity to host plant quality and microhabitat. Despite this, considerably broader host ranges were observed in captivity, including both cultivated and native South African species of Solanum L. Certain of these non-target plants were suitable hosts for the beetles, because there were no consistent differences in survival and duration of development of the immature stages on these compared with S. mauritianum. However, evidence from the literature that species of Platyphora associated with Solanaceae have very narrow host ranges, and that none are known to attack cultivated Solanum species in South America, strongly suggests that the laboratory tests do not reflect the true host ranges of these beetles. Despite this possibility, none of these beetles were considered suitable for release in South Africa and further studies were terminated. 
3999664|The palaearctic species Harpalus (Ophonus) puncticeps Stephens, previously known in North America only from Long Island, N. Y., is here recorded from Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and Bolton, Vt.
4009635|Peltoschema Reitter is redescribed as a genus of Chrysomelidae, not Trogossitidae, and is recognised as the valid and oldest available name for Acacicola Lea, Pyrgo Weise (nec Defrance) and Pyrgoides Kelly and Reid (all new synonyms). A lectotype is designated for the type species, Peltoschema filicornis Reitter, which is a senior synonym of Paropsis platynota Lea (new synonym). The monophyly of Peltoschema is discussed, the species-group to which both P. filicornis and the type species of Acacicola belong is defined, and P. filicornis is redescribed.
4009500|Based on the study of relevant specimens from the Kirby, Stephens and Erichson collections, the following nomenclatorial actions are implemented: 1. The name Philonthus rufipes (Stephens) becomes the valid name for Philonthus immundus; (Gyllenhall) (nec Gravenhorst), with Philonthus fumigatus Erichson, as a new synonym. The name Philonthus picatus (Stephens) becomes a junior synonym of Philonthus carbonarius (Gravenhorst), new synonym.
41316631|Host plant data is provided for 23 species of cryptocephaline leaf beetles in Kentucky. The degree of beetle - plant association is quantified from field observations to laboratory feeding, mating and oviposition. New beetle - plant associations are reported at the following levels: 16 at the plant species level, eight at the plant genus level, and six at the plant family level. The most cryptocephaline species - plant family associations were with Fabaceae, Salicaceae, Anacardiaceae, Clusiaceae, and Fagaceae.
40664418|Descriptions of structures of the second and third instars of Heterosternuta sulphuria (Matta and Wolfe) are presented. Larvae of H, sulphuria are fairly similar to the known larvae of Heterosternuta Strand, all of these being characterized by the presence of lateral spinulae on the prementum, the absence of natatory setae on the legs, the absence of spiracular openings on the mesothorax and abdominal segments 1-7, siphon of the third instar cone-shaped, short, and highly constricted posterior to insertion of urogomphi, and urogomphomere 1 with secondary setae. A key to identification of the third instars of known species of Heterosternuta is provided.
4009689|Larvae of the genus Megalopinus, of the monobasic subfamily Megalopsidiinae, are described for the first time. Larvae can be distinguished from all other known staphylinid larvae by the presence of a mandible with a subapical bladelike process, and are differentiated in detail from other larvae of the staphylinine group of subfamilies in a key. To confirm the identity of Megalopinus larvae, which have not been reared to adults, we compared partitions of 28 adult and 20 larval morphological characters derived from members of the stenine group (Megalopsidiinae, Euaesthetinae, Steninae) and three staphylinid outgroups (Oxyporinae, Pseudopsinae and Piestinae). Partitioned cladograms were similar with the only difference being the placement of Pseudopsinae as sister taxon to the stenine group (adult characters) or included within it (larval characters). Characters were combined and one tree was produced with the following relationships: Megalopsidiinae (Pseudopsinae (Steninae, Euaesthetinae)). Megalopinus is a specialized genus occurring mainly under rotting logs where fungal growth occurs, a habit for which the new term hyphyledic is proposed. Adults digest their food preorally, using a rotary-mill method for extracting liquefied tissues from masticated prey items. A deeply bifurcate labrum bearing modified setae functions as a sieve, while hyaline processes on the labium may be used for tearing captured prey by Megalopinus adults. Implications for the evolution of the adult Stenus "stick-capture" method for prey capture, which involves extruding a rodlike labium that exudes sticky substances at the tip, are discussed based on new phylogenetic information.
4009161|Tiger beetles of the genus Cicindela L. subgenus Rivacindela van Nidek from saline habitats of Australia display great variation in locomotory behavior. A total of 30 species have been described, nine of which are flightless. A notable consequence of brachyptery in Rivacindela is the evolution of very rapid terrestrial locomotion. Brachypterous beetles reach significantly higher cursorial velocities than macropterous ones. The running speeds attained by flightless Rivacindela are the fastest ever recorded for insects. The large species, Cicindela hudsoni Sumlin, reaches a maximal speed of 2.5 m.s-1, whereas the small-sized Cicindela eburneola Sumlin, attains the remarkable relative velocity of 170 body length.s-1. The evolution of flightlessness in Australian Cicindela occurred only in Rivacindela species and in Cicindela (Macfarlandia) arachnoides Sumlin, a mimic of lycosid spiders. Correlation between flightlessness and stable and isolated habitats is noted and discussed.
4009874|Six genus-group names in the tribe Trichiini (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Cetoniinae) are discussed with regards to their availability and validity under the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature. Aleurostictus Kirby, Archimedius Kirby, Euclidius Kirby, Gymnodus Kirby, Tetrophthalmus Kirby, and Trichinus Kirby all have priority over most other generic names in the tribe but none of the names are in prevailing usage. Clarifications are needed due to the reemergence of Aleurostictus Kirby in current literature and confusion over the nomenclatural status of the other names. Type species are designated for Aleurostictus Kirby, Tetrophthalmus Kirby, and Stegopterus Burmeister and Schaum. The gender of the genera Trigonopeltastes Burmeister and Schaum and Apeltastes Howden is also discussed.
3999677|Nineteen species of dung beetles were captured on Blackbeard Island, Georgia, with feces-baited pit traps. A comparison of the dung beetles captured on the island with beetles captured on the adjacent mainland indicates that the 2 populations are separate and distinct.
4008274|Laboratory microcosms were designed to analyse the growth and development of Aphodius spp. beetles. Life cycles of these experimental beetles were similar to those of beetles under natural field conditions. Higher experimental temperatures and densities of beetles may have influenced the size of beetle progeny.
4007996|Evolution of Mesozoic adephaga (described by Ponomarenko) is considered in relation to their possible locomotor habits. The adephagan ancestor may have been a fairly large, fast running archostematan which hunted over the open ground surface during early Triassic time. It could have given rise to a caraboid stock of ground beetles in the mid-Triassic which, by Upper Triassic, had differentiated to produce the superficially similar Carabidae-Protorabinae and Trachypachidae-Eodromiinae. These appear to be faster runners but weaker wedge-pushers which were adapted to the open ground conditions. Trachypachid specializations include immobilised metacoxae which possibly evolved as an anti-crushing device, but which were pre-adapted to aquatic life. Dytiscomorphs evolved from trachypachids in the Lower Jurassic, but Haliplidae (Triaplidae) and possibly Gyrinidae may be distinct lines which separated in Triassic time. Both carabid and trachypachid ground beetles were drastically affected by the angiosperm revolution of the mid-Cretaceous which provided widespread deciduous litter. This allowed stronger wedge-pushers but slightly slower running stocks of Carabidae to become dominant, and may have caused the major decline of the Trachypachidae.
3999895|Seven species, including Mycetina depressa Gerstaecker, are redescribed with diagnostic figures. Ps. javanicus n. sp. is added. Translations of Pic's descriptions of Ps. testaceitarsis and Falsodanae rufonotata are included.
4008236|Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated for 51 species of the curculionid genus Anthonomus described by W. G. Dietz (33), J. L. LeConte (15) and H. C. Fall (3). Cases in which all members of the type series could not be located or where discrepancies were noted in the constitution of the original type series are also discussed.
40983309|Five carabid beetle species described from the Hawaiian Islands, PolynesiaCalleida gracilis Gemminger and de Harold, 1868 (= Calleida amoenula Boheman, 1858), Calleida sanguinicollis Dejean, 1831 (= Calleida insularis Boheman, 1858), Lebia insularis Boheman, 1858, Selenophorus insularis Boheman, 1858, and Selenophorus picinus Boheman, 1858are shown to be properly attributed to the American biogeographic region, with their type localities corrected to either Central America or Pacific South America. Two of the five names are newly synonymized: L. insularis Boheman = L. analis Dejean, 1825 (new synonymy), and S. insularis Boheman = S. chalcosomus Reiche, 1843 (new synonymy). Calleida gracilis is shown to be a member taxon of the janthina species-group of South America, most similar to Calleida tibialis Brull, 1837. However, taxonomic uncertainty surrounding C. gracilis, C. tibialis, and an undescribed taxon precludes definitive species circumscription in this group, and C. gracilis is retained as a valid member of the janthina species-group pending future revision. Selenophorus picinus is placed as species incertae sedis within Selenophorus subgenus Gynandwpus Dejean, alternately treated as the hylacis species-group. The biogeographical and ecological consequences obtained from removing these taxa from the Polynesian fauna include: 1) recognition of more natural biogeographical distributions for the genera Calleida Latreille and Dejean, Lebia Latreille, and Selenophorus Dejean; 2) elimination of all examples that could demonstrate extinction of a non-native carabid beetle species subsequent to its accidental introduction into the Hawaiian Islands.
4000080|A specimen tentatively determined as Scaphinotus petersi catalinae Van Dyke, collected in Aravaipa Canyon, Graham County, Arizona, and apparently representing an isolated population, is compared with typical S. p. catalinae and the other 5 subspecies of S. petersi Roeschke. Aravaipa Canyon is described as a rich but apparently seldom visited collecting area, and sketch maps are provided.
4008651|The external morphology, body vestiture, and male and female genitalia of the weevil genus Philippius Germain (Curculionidae: Rhytirrhininae: Listroderini) were analyzed and illustrated, and a lectotype was selected for P. insignis Germain [= P. superbus (Reed)]. The genus Philippius includes only one species, P. superbus (Reed). Several features that easily distinguish it from other genera of the tribe Listroderini are discussed. Its distribution is restricted to the Valdivian region of southern South America. The analysis of morphology and geographical distribution suggests that Philippius represents a relictual form, with no clear relationships with other American Listroderini.
4009936|Kiskeya new genus and two new species (K. baorucae and K. neibae), from the Dominican Republic are described and illustrated. Kiskeya is compared to Monotalla Bechyne, Normaltica Konstantinov, and Clavicornaltica Scherer. Geographic ranges in which Greater Antillean endemics have closest relatives in the Old World are discussed.
40389463|The carabid beetle fauna of Lanai includes nine native Hawaiian species, and four extralimital alien species. The three species of Mecyclothorax Sharp precinctive to LanaiM. filipes (Sharp), M. mundanus (Sharp), and M. flavipes, new speciesare taxonomically revised. Lanai non-native carabid species include Metacolpodes buchanani (Hope) (new island record), Gnathaphanus picipes (MacLeay), G. multipunctatus (MacLeay) (new island record), and Perigona nigriceps (Dejean) (new island record). A key to species of Harpalini introduced to the Hawaiian Islands is provided. Historical records of native Lanai carabid species indicate that they occurred in both summit cloud forest and in riparian corridors of the mesic and dry forest communities. Present-day records indicate restriction of these species solely to the cloud forest zone. The known historical diminution of summit cloud forest establishes a minimum area that has supported persistent populations for several of Lanai's native carabid taxa. Three of the four alien species have been recorded from cloud and mesic forest communities as well as lowland dry forest not known to support native carabid beetles. Currently, native and non-native species exhibit extensive distributional overlap. However, based on fine-scale, field-collection data, this geographic sympatry overstates the extent of ecological interactions between native and non-native taxa. Whereas native species occur in the cloud forest community, non-native species are more broadly distributed in anthropogenically-disturbed situations including the ecologically devastated dry forest community as well as smaller patches of disturbance within the native cloud forest.
4008874|The chrysomelid Pentispa suturalis (Baly) feeds on leaves of Baccharis bigelovii Gray (Asteraceae) in Arizona. There is one generation per year. Adults emerge from soil debris in April and feed for about a month before mating. Eggs are laid within the leaf tissue and are covered with fecal material. Most are laid in the tip of the leaf and 93.6% are found on the lower side. Larvae are present from July to September; they feed in blotch-type mines and each consumes one to three leaves. Teneral adults emerge in September and feed before overwintering in leaf debris below the plant. Taxonomic descriptions of third-instar larva and pupa and a key to aid larval identification are given.
3999701|Information on the distribution of 31 species and subspecies of Chrysomelinae is provided. Most of these are from Wyoming but several entries not previously published from other areas are included.
29739214|The formerly monotypic genus Blaiseus, known from Vietnam, is redescribed and nine new species are described and illustrated: B. fujianus new species (P.R. China), B. daklakensis new species (Vietnam), B. laoensis new species (Laos), B. malayensis new species (Malaysia), B. nothoafricanus new species (South Africa), B. zamoranoensis new species (Honduras), B. guatemalensis new species (Guatemala), and B. chiapasensis new species and B. mexicanus new species from Mexico. Morphological character states of the protibia, hind wing and aedeagus not previously observed in Elateridae are described and illustrated. A female specimen of Blaiseus (B. zamoranoensis) is first described here and displays a fossorial morphology type with reduced wings and eyes. Blaiseus is hypothesized to be at least 20 million years old based on its known geographic distribution and apparent female flightlessness.
3999520|Edrotes fossor n.sp. is described from Mexico (Baja California, Sur) and it is distinguished from the 4 previously known species.
4009773|The monotypic new genus Barriella is described on the basis of B. longicornoides Opitz, new species, from Brazil. I postulate that Barriella represents a descendant of a Gondwanian stock that also yielded such Old World genera as Stigmatium Grey and Clerus Fabricius. The potential relationships of B. longicornoides Opitz to Chilean genera such as Natalis Laporte, Notocymatodera Schenkling, Eurymetomorphon Pic, and Ctenoclerus Solervicens, and to the New World genera Placopterus Wolcott and Enoclerus Gahan, is also discussed. A synonymy involving Notocymatodera modesta (Spinola) and Notocymatodera dimidiata (Germar) is suggested.
4009662|Trichodes audouini-dubreuili, poorly described by Reymond (1956), from Morocco is redescribed and figured from one male specimen recently discovered in the Moroccan Anti-Atlas.
4008820|The following are new synonymies and a new combination: Anthonomus macromalus Gyllenhal [=A. bidentatus Boheman and A. malpighiae Clark and Burke]; Anthonomus nanus Gyllenhal [=A. incanus Champion]; A. sulcatus Kirsch [=A. univestris Voss]; Pseudanthonomus concolor (Champion) (New Combination, replacing Neomastix concolor Champion) [=P. positron Clark]. A lectotype is designated for A. macromalus Gyllenhal.
4009709| Celetes Newman is found to be a junior homonym of Celetes Schnherr and Leptoceletes Green is proposed as a replacement name for it (new synonymy, status, and sense). This results in the following new combinations: Leptoceletes basalis (LeConte), Leptoceletes burchelli (Bourgeois), Leptoceletes dehiscens (Green), Leptoceletes leo (Zaragoza), Leptoceletes pallidus (Green), Leptoceletes subtilis (Kleine). 
40389470|The species of the genus "Cerophysa" Chevrolat known from Taiwan are reviewed. Hoplosaenidea chujoi Kimoto, 1966, H. nigripennis Kimoto, 1966, and H. taiwana (Chj 1935) are transferred to Cerophysa and redescribed. Male and female genitalia are illustrated for each species. A key to the species of Cerophysa in Taiwan is provided.
3999668|Conoderus bifoveatus (Palisot de Beauvois) and C. rufidens (Fabricius) are reported from Florida for the first time, although some specimens were collected there as early as 1875. The pertinent features of these species are tabulated and figured and the species are compared with the native lividus (DeGeer).
4010067| Larvae and adults of Gratiana spadicea (Klug 1829) feed only on Solanum sisymbriifolium Lamarck (Solanaceae) leaves. Leaves of this host plant bear simple, glandular and non-glandular, and stellate trichomes. In this paper, we show that larvae avoid eating the stellate trichomes, which are removed, before mesophile ingestion. First and second instar larvae macerated the trichome rays to reach the mesophile, while older instars and the adults removed the entire trichomes. In double choice tests, leaf discs with none (shaved leaf discs), high (HD) and low density (LD) of stellate trichomes were offered to larvae and adults of G. spadicea. Both preferred shaved and LD discs over the HD type. For the HD discs, the mean distance among the trichomes in a given leaf was smaller than that of first instar larvae head capsule width, indicating that feeding sites cannot be accessed unless they remove the trichome rays. Larvae that fed on intact leaf discs suffered higher mortalities than those that fed on shaved discs. Thus, the data suggest that S. sisymbriifolium stellate trichomes impose life history costs, functioning as a barrier for G. spadicea feeding, mainly to first instar larvae. On the other hand, trichome removal and selection of feeding sites with lower trichome density allow these larvae to overcome such barriers. /// As larvas e os adultos de Gratiana spadicea (Klug, 1829) alimentam-se unicamente de Solanum sisymbriifolium Lamarck (Solanaceae), cujas folhas apresentam tricomas simples, glandulares e no glandulares, alm de tricomas estrelados. Neste artigo mostramos que as larvas evitam a ingesto dos tricomas estrelados, atravs de sua remoo, antes da ingesto do mesfilo. As larvas de primeiro e segundo instares maceram os raios dos tricomas, enquanto as larvas dos demais instares e adultos os removem por inteiro. Em testes de dupla escolha, discos foliares sujeitos a tratamento de remoo dos tricomas e com alta (HD) e baixa densidade (LD) destes foram oferecidos a larvas e adultos de G. spadicea. Houve preferncia pelos discos com baixa densidade e com remoo dos tricomas. Nos discos HD, a distancia media entre os tricomas foi menor do que a largura da cpsula ceflica das larvas de primeiro instar, indicando que locais de alimentao no podem ser acessados a menos que os raios dos tricomas sejam removidos. As larvas alimentadas com discos foliares intactos sofreram maior mortalidade do que as alimentadas com discos sujeitos a tratamento de remoo dos tricomas. Assim, os resultados sugerem que os tricomas estrelados de S. sisymbriifolium impe custos s larvas de G. spadicea, funcionando como barreira  alimentao, principalmente nos instares iniciais. Por outro lado, o comportamento de remoo dos tricomas e a selao de stios alimentares com baixa densidade permitem a estes besouros superar tais barreiras. 
3999569|The geographical variation, ecology, and distribution are discussed for the 6 species of Asidina known to inhabit the U. S. A key is presented for separation of the species, and Asidina rugicollis NEW SPECIES is described from Arizona. Asidina teres Casey, A. liberta Casey, and A. parallela terricola Blaisdell are all reduced to synonymy.
4009615|Presumed to be extinct by some authors, Anomala exigua (Schwarz) was rediscovered in central Florida. A diagnosis of males and females is presented, including a note on the brachypterous female. Comments are made on attempts to find the type locality. Observations on habitat preferences and behavior are discussed.
4008045|Stenelmis morsei, a new species of riffle beetle, is described from the Upper Three Runs Creek drainage of Aiken County, South Carolina. It closely resembles Stenelmis lateralis Sanderson of the crenata-group in elytral pattern but differs in the distinctly smaller size (2.1-2.3 mm long) and in the width of the pronotum being only slightly narrower than the width of the elytra. Outline drawings of the elytra, pronotum, and male genitalia are given to show differences between the two species along with an interpolation of the new species into existing keys.
3999675|The genus Caccoplectus is removed from the Faronini and placed back in the Holozodini. This placement is based on the presence of the typically Macrosceline aedeagus and mesotrochanters, although the tarsal lengths indicate placement in the Faronini. Due to the reduction of the number of maxillary palpal segments to 3, the reduced teeth on the mandibles and their collection at light in Arizona with 2 species of myrmecophilous pselaphids (Ctensis raffrayi with Veromessor juliana and Pilopius ocularis with Novomessor albisetosus), the genus is presumed to be myrmecophilous. The genus is divided into 3 groups with 6 new species. The spinipes-group contains spinipes Schaeffer from Texas, nuttingi n. sp. from Arizona, incultus n. sp. from Baja California Sur and sentis n. sp. from Arizona. The celatus-group contains celatus Sharp from Central America, bellingeri Park from Jamaica, inornatus n. sp. from Panama and pectinatus n. sp. from Arizona. The orbis-group contains orbis n. sp. from Panama. Characters are shown in 46 figures.
4008190|Fossil beetles ranging in age from 3,500 years ago to present are described from sediments at Bongards, Minnesota. Faunal analogues to the fossil assemblages occur in south-central Minnesota today, indicating that establishment of the modern fauna at Bongards dates from at least 3,500 years ago. This date coincides with the termination of the warmer, drier Prairie Period and the associated transition to the cooler, wetter climate. The insect fossils indicate that the regional climate since that time has remained relatively stable.
4008121|The aurichalceum section of the subgenus Trichapion is redefined. A diagnostic key to species groups of the section is given, and various species are reassigned. Two species groups, the laminatum group and the analomum group, are newly distinguished. The analomum group includes A. johnschmitti, a new species described from Costa Rica.
4000115|The genus Tanygaster Blatchley is synonymized with Phyllotreta Chevrolat. This necessitates the new combination of P. ovalis (Blatchley) and the transfer of T. lindahli (Dury) back to Phyllotreta. A lectotype is designated for P. lindahli. The type series of both P. ovalis and P. lindahli have been found to be composite.
3999604|Observations on the feeding, mating, and ovipositional activities of Enoclerus abdominalis (Chevr.) and Enoclerus opifex (Gorham) are discussed. The association of E. opifex with Dasylirion texanum Scheele, and of both clerids with Yucca thompsoniana Trel. and with a weevil (Peltophorus polymitus Boh.) are reported.
4009760|After examining the type species of Cryptocanthon, C. paradoxus Balthasar, and other species in Cryptocanthon, we have concluded that C. borgmeieri Vulcano, Pereira and Martinez should be removed from the genus and placed in a new genus as a sister taxon. Therefore, a monotypic new genus, Paracryptocanthon, is described here for the species C. borgmeieri.
4008816|Recent changes in the generic classification of Psamodiini are summarized, new genera are described, and a key to the 14 American genera is provided. Psammodius grundeli Van Dyke is placed as a junior synonym of Platytomus tibialis (L.). Leiopsammodius aenictus (Cartwright), L. armaticeps (Fall), L. atopus (Cartwright), L. bidens (Horn), L. brunneus (Balthasar), L. cameneni (Chalumeau), L. chipiririi (Cartwright), L. cruentus (Harold), L. decuiella (Chalumeau), L. fimbriatus (Cartwright), L. formosus (Cartwright), L. insulcatus (Schmidt), L. integer (Bates), and L. mapirii (Cartwright) are transferred to Odontopsammodius, new genus. Leiopsammodius hydropicus (Horn) and Psammodius relictillus Deyrup and Woodruff are transferred to Geopsammodius, new genus. Leiopsammodius indefensus (Schmidt) is transferred to Psammodius. Rhyssemus minutus Petrovitz, and R. mimicus are transferred to Afrodiastictus Pittino and Mariani; and Rhyssemus beccarii Balthasar, R. intrinsecus Gordon and Cartwright, R. lineatus Gordon and Cartwright, and R. quinquecostatus Schmidt are assigned to Neorhyssemus, new genus.
3999700|The female of Agrilus sapindi Knull 1938 is described. A. mojavei Knull 1952 is treated as a subspecies of A. granulatus (Say) 1823. A. nodicornis Fall 1932 is considered a junior synonym of A. duncani Knull 1929. New distributional and/or host data are given for 130 species in the following genera: Paratyndaris, Acmaeoderopsis, Thrincopyge, Agaeocera, Hippomelas, Nanularia, Chalcophora, Poecilonota, Cinyra, Buprestis, Melanophila, Anthaxia, Actenodes, Chrysobothris, Agrilus, Brachys, and Taphrocerus.
4009123|Records for 18 families of Coleoptera, which were fed upon by 24 species of asilids, are presented. Apparently, slow flight of some species of beetles, such as Aphodius spp. (Scarabaeidae), makes them particularly susceptible to the attacks of asilids.
4008115|The Baron Maximilien de Chaudoir's system for agrine Lebiini and brachinines was developed by use of similarity among included taxa as determined by readily observable structural features of representative adults. In both groups, most easily recognizable taxa are listed first, and their character states are today regarded as apotypic. The following groups are progressively less clearly defined, more inclusive, and more plesiotypic in their character states. Hence, Chaudoir's systems of arrangement are inverse with respect to those which would be required by application of current cladistic methods. Chaudoir's career as a taxonomist extended from late pre-Darwinian to early post-Darwinian time (1835-1881), but evidence is not found in his publications about agrines and brachinines to suggest that he was influenced by ideas about evolution. He seems to have implicitly recognized natural order, but worked in the light of his own time, place, and contemporaries. His contributions are of value today at a practical, rather than a theoretical, level.
4009464|A purebred "red" mutant line of Canthon cyanellus cyanellus LeConte, a carrion ballroller beetle normally green in color, was produced by inbreeding under laboratory conditions. Segregation of cuticular color fit a 3:1 normal/mutant ratio in F
4008492|The genus Ocyustiba gen. nov. is erected for a new species from high elevations in the Appalachian Mountains in North Carolina, U.S.A. The genus is formally described and assigned to the tribe Oxypodini. The new species, Ocyustiba appalachiana, is described and illustrated, and all available bionomic data are presented.
4008405|The genera and species in the tribe Scymnini known from China are taxonomically treated. Eight genera, including 5 subgenera, and 27 species are discussed; 13 species are described for the first time. The new taxa are: Scymnus (Scymnus) hainanensis; S. (Pullus) fujianensis; S. (P.) longisiphonulus; S. (P.) hainanicus; S. (P.) sternitus; S. (P.) comperei; S. (P.) klapperichi; S. (Nipponopullus) hoocalis; Pseudoscymnus sternalis; Axinoscymnus singaporicus; Keiscymnus koebelei; Diomus brunsuturalis; Nephus lancetapicalis. New combinations include Rhyzobius formosanus Weise, which is reassigned to the genus Scymnus (Pullus) and Pullus tainanensis Ohta, which is transferred to Pseudoscymnus.
4009521|A new apionine weevil, Coelocephalapion camarae, new species, from Mexico is described and illustrated. The new species closely resembles C. germanum (Sharp) of the C. sordidum species group but combines group characters from the C. decoloratum and C. sordidum species groups. The species is under laboratory culture as a potential biocontrol agent for Lantana camara L. (Verbenaceae) in South Africa.
4010044|The California species Eurypogon confusus Fall is redescribed and made the type of Brevipogon new genus. Generic relationships within the family are discussed, based on a cladistic analysis of all artematopodid genera, with Brachypsectra as the outgroup. Based on the cladistic analysis, the tribe Allopogonini Crowson is elevated to subfamily rank (Allopogoninae Crowson new status). A key to artematopodid genera is provided.
29739229|We conducted a detailed study of the internal genitalic characters of males and females of Copris klugi klugi Harold and Copris klugi sierrensis Matthews. On the basis of the adopted taxonomic criteria and on the comparison of eight species included in the fricator group, we maintain that C. klugi Harold and C. sierrensis Matthews are distinct species rather than subspecies. At the same time, although with only preliminary results, we also emphasize the heterogeneity of some species complexes that were established by Matthews and are recognized in the literature, and underline the need for a group revision using genitalia as a source of taxonomic data. In addition to the taxonomic analysis, we also included an introductory revision of the geographic distribution of the two studied taxa and their related species.
4008979| Description of structures of all three larval instars of Hydroporus dentellus Fall, is presented. The chaetotaxy and porotaxy of the cephalic capsule, head appendages, legs, last abdominal segment, and urogomphi are discussed in detail. Based on larval morphology, H. dentellus is very similar to other members of the subgenus Hydroporus. A comparison with the larva of Hydroporus obscurus Sturm, another member of the H. americanus group, does not suggest a monophyletic origin for the species included within this group. /// La description dtaille des trois stades larvaires de l'espce Hydroporus dentellus Fall est prsente. L'analyse chtotaxique et porotaxique dtaille de la capsule et des appendices cphaliques, des pattes, du dernier segment abdominal et des urogomphes est effectue. Sur le plan morphologique, la larve d'H. dentellus s'est rvle trs semblable aux autres membres du sous-genre Hydroporus. La comparaison effectue avec la larve d'H. obscurus Sturm, une autre espce du groupe H. americanus, ne permet pas de suggrer une origine monophyltique pour les espces de ce groupe. 
4008786|Oxyporus (Oxyporus) bierigi Campbell is redescribed on the basis of specimens collected from the vicinity of Monteverde, Puntarenas, Costa Rica. The species is redescribed to document extreme variation in color.
3999997|Male Hylurgops rugipennis infesting Sitka spruce have a multi-pulse stress chirp and bimodally patterned premating stridulation, but they do not produce the bimodal pattern of stridulation in response to attractive frass in the absence of the female. Males do not have rivalry stridulation; females do not emit multi-pulse chirps.
4009886|For conservation purposes and to supply rare insects for laboratory use, a system for artificial breeding is crucial. However, in the case of carnivorous freshwater insects such as diving beetles, constant conditions in aquariums are difficult to maintain due to their high rate of food consumption. Furthermore, surface rippling caused by the pumping system for water circulation hinders the respiration of small larvae. We developed a new open aquarium system without water circulation that was successfully applied to the rearing of larvae of diving beetles, Dytiscus sharpi (Wehncke) (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae). In comparison to conventional methods, a high proportion of larvae developed into adult insects. The size of reared adults was almost the same as those of field-collected adults. The new method could be applied to the conservation and breeding of other rare species, such as water beetles and water bugs.
4008430|Four species of Elaphidionoides Linsley, including the generic type species, are transferred to Anelaphus Linsley, and Anelaphus is redefined to include species with bispinose elytral apices. The new genera Parelaphidion, Orwellion, and Linsleyonides are proposed to accommodate the remaining species of Elaphidionoides. The following new species are described: A. belkini and A. davisi from west Texas, O. lineatum and O. fasciatum from Mexico and Central America, and L. chemsaki from Jamaica. The range of Orwellion (Hypermallus) gibbulum (Bates) is extended to Costa Rica, and two subspecies are recognized: O. g. gibbulum and O. g. arizonense (Casey).
3999650|Psephenus falli, the western water penny beetle, living in the Pacific coast states and Idaho, probably requires 15-18 months to complete its life cycle. Much growth variation exists even among those developing from the same egg mass. Life history is shorter than that postulated for the eastern species, P. herricki, but the microdistribution, habitat distribution, and behavior of all life stages seem identical to that species.
4008861|Epilachna varivestis Mulsant populations have been observed to be less abundant on Phaseolus vulgaris L. planted with Brassica kaber D.-C. than on P. vulgaris alone. To investigate the possibility that chemicals from B. kaber affected the beetles, P. vulgaris was watered or misted with aqueous B. kaber extracts and it was grown with B. kaber in a greenhouse, and feeding tests were conducted. Leaf disks from each of the three treatments were paired with controls. Beetles fed more on control leaf disks than on leaf disks from plants misted with B. kaber extract. No other preferences were observed. It is possible that chemicals from B. kaber inhibited beetle feeding in the field and contributed to the suppression of beetle populations in mixtures of P. vulgaris and B. kaber.
4009873|Two new and three previously described species of Agrosteomela are described, A. flavipennis new species, A. nigrita new species, A. indica (Hope), A. chinensis (Weise), and A. impressiuscula (Fairmaire). The latter two species, formerly considered subspecies of A. indica, are elevated to species. The median lobe of the aedeagus of species of Agrosteomela and the habitus of the two new species are illustrated. Type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
4000061|The introduced European beetle Asaphidion flavipes Linnaeus (Coleoptera, Carabidae) was known in North America only from a few specimens collected in 1930 in Flushing, Long Island, New York. Its rediscovery in large numbers in Southampton in 1976 suggests that it is established on the island. Its habitat is briefly described.
40983316|Two species of Methiini, Tessaropa hispaniolae Lingafelter, new species, and Methia dolichoptera Lingafelter, new species, (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) from Hispaniola are diagnosed, described, and illustrated. The Dominican Republic represents a new country record for Malacopterus tenellus (F.) (Oemini). A discussion of the tribal characters, followed by a key to the four species of both tribes known from Hispaniola, is included.
4008260|Paramaronius campbelli n. sp. from Brazil is described. The terminal male and female abdominal segments and genitalia are illustrated.
4008822|There are three components or phases of feeding behavior in this species: food-finding, food-checking, and feeding. This sequence of behavioral components initially guides the adult toward the food source and upon contact leads to the recognition and utilization of the food. The oviposition behavioral sequence can be divided into four phases: oviposition site finding, oviposition site recognition, girdling, and slit preparation and oviposition. During food-finding or oviposition site finding, adults usually fly to a plant more vigorous and taller than average. A female during the oviposition stage feeds and oviposits on the same plant; thus food-finding is in fact oviposition site finding. Contacting the plant frequently with antennae, mouthparts, or tarsi occurs during both foodchecking and oviposition site recognition, suggesting that mechanical and/or chemical receptors associated with this behavior are located on one or more of these appendages. Bleeding or wilting of the plant used for feeding or oviposition may cause adults to fly to another plant. Girdling by females is important as a general adaptation for prevention of upward boring by larvae, and their successful development. Egg slit preparation may be associated with the protection of the egg from attack by natural enemies, and ensure a suitable growth and development site for both egg and larva.
4009958|We report information about the presence of Agabus (Gaurodytes) paludosus (Fabricius, 1801) within the interstitial zone of the streambed of the Po River (NW Italy) during droughts. During August and November 2004, we found adult and larval stages at depths of 70-90 cm below the surface when no water was present in the channel. These findings are discussed in the context of the origin of stygobiont diving beetles.
4008157| Examination of the type of Macrelmis dentata Motschulsky 1859, type-species of Macrelmis Motschulsky, reveals that it belongs to the genus later described by Sharp (1882) under the name Elsianus. Species previously ascribed to Elsianus must be transferred to Macrelmis. All species other than dentata heretofore placed in Macrelmis are assigned to a new genus, Austrelmis, of which leleupi Delve 1968 is designated as type-species. Checklists of the known species of Macrelmis and Austrelmis are provided, as well as generic descriptions. 
3999540|Haliplus variomaculatus is described on the basis of 40 specimens from east-central Illinois. A key and illustrations are provided to distinguish it from several similar species, especially H. deceptus Matheson, to which it keys in the most recent revision of the genus, and H. triopsis Say, which it most closely resembles. Water analysis data are presented for several adjacent ponds similar to those in which variomaculatus was collected. A section on ecology discusses the aquatic habitat and species diversity including variomaculatus and 10 associated species.
4008566|The scolytid Polygraphus convexifrons Wood is recorded from Gregson Inlet, eastern Ungava Bay, Quebec. The specimens provide a remarkable range extension for the species, hitherto regarded as exclusively western, and suggest that similar range extensions may exist for other scolytid species still to be found in the area.
3999730|The cicindelid holdings of the Nevada State Department of Agriculture are reviewed. The holdings represent 18 taxa, all members of the genus Cicindela (sensu W. Horn). The majority of specimens were collected in areas of Nevada not covered in previous literature. Five C. tranquebarica Herbst populations are treated as races rather than subspecies until additional distributional data becomes available. Shortcomings of trinomial application to some western C. tranquebarica populations are discussed.
4009496|A new genus and species of Oedemeridae, Hyperopselaphus ikedai, is described from the Yaeyama Islands (southwestern Japan) and Taiwan. This genus is characterized by the expanded terminal maxillary palpomere and by having a pair of apical hooks on the median lobe in the male. The new genus resembles three endemic New Zealand genera: Selenopalpus White, Thelyphassa Pascoe and Baculipalpus Brown. Relationships between Hyperopselaphus and other genera are discussed.
4009452|The flea beetle genus Pedethma Weise (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), occurring in Queensland and New South Wales, Australia, is revised. Pedethma fuscipennis Weise is designated as the type species. Lectotypes are designated for P. fuscipennis Weise, P. malandensis Weise, and P. suturalis Weise. Fourteen new species are described (type locality in parentheses): P. australiensis Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Mt. Glorious National Park); P. cookensis Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Mt. Cook); P. demiensis Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Mt. Demi); P. howdeni Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Mt. Lewis); P. humeromaculata Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Windin Falls via Butchers Creek); P. kirejtshuki Lingafelter and Konstantinov (New South Wales: Dorrigo National Park); P. kurandensis Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Kuranda); P. maculata Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Bellenden Ker Range); P. nigra Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Bellenden Ker Range); P. pinnipenis Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Hugh Nelson Range, 2.5 km S. of Crater National Park); P. pubescens Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Bamboo Creek); P. seymourensis Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Seymour Range, Polly Creek); P. sinuatipenis Lingafelter and Konstantinov (Queensland: Mt. Bartle Frere); and P. weisei Lingafelter and Konstantinov (New South Wales: Monga State Forest). A redescription of the genus and descriptions, diagnoses, and key to all species are presented.
3999448|Observations on the behavior, host plants, and predators of Paracotalpa puncticollis LeC. are recorded. The distribution and phenology of all known specimens are plotted.
3999771|New host, bionomical, and distributional information is presented for 12 species of Pacific Northwest Cerambycidae, primarily from Oregon. Species treated include: Anoplodera canadensis Olivier, Encyclops californica Van Dyke, Hesperanoplium antennatum (Linsley), Holopleura marginata LeConte, Leptalia macilenta (Mannerheim), Neoclytus interruptus LeConte, N. provoanus Casey, N. resplendens Linsley, Plectrura spinicauda Mannerheim, Prionus integer LeConte, Purpuricenus dimidiatus LeConte and Tetraopes annulatus LeConte. N. interruptus is recorded as prey of Stenopogon inquinatus Loew (Diptera:Asilidae).
4008009| Blethisa catenaria Brown has been previously reported from three sites in North America. This paper documents three additional sites: the Titaluk River on Alaska's Arctic Slope, the Anderson River delta in the Northwest Territories, and near Old Crow in the Yukon Territory of Canada. The species is restricted to the margin of the boreal forest and Zone 4 tundra of Young, where mean July temperatures fall in the range of 11.6  2.2C and mean annual temperatures are -9  3C. Net summer warmth over its known range is between 846 and 1,269 degree-days (calculated from a base of 0C.). Annual precipitation, which is probably not a limiting factor, is 267  136 mm. 
27571055|The genus Evides Dejean, 1833 (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) belongs to the family of woodboring beetles commonly known as jewel beetles. This comparative study was undertaken on the morphological characteristics of three species from field specimens, private collections and collections at the Transvaal Museum of Natural History. The genus Evides consists of eleven species and one subspecies in total worldwide. Nine species and one subspecies are endemic to Sub-Saharan Africa. One species is recorded from India and further species from Laos and Vietnam: Bellamy (World Catalogue, in prep.) The objective of the study was to quantify morphological differences between species representing the genus in South Africa. Specimens of E. gambiensis (Laporte & Gory, 1835), E. interstitialis (Obenberger, 1924) and E. pubiventris (Laporte & Gory, 1835) were collected in the Waterberg (Limpopo Province) and additional specimens of E. pubiventris were collected at Ezemvelo Nature Reserve (Gauteng Province). All three species are related, difficult to differentiate in the field and occur on the same host plants, marula (Sclerocarya birrea (A. Rich.) Hochst.) and false marula (Lannea discolor (Sonder) Engl.). Results indicate that there are morphological differences and species can be differentiated according to elytra length, total elytron width, eye size, frons length, frons width and abdomen length.
4008362|The subgenus Lampetis Spinola of the genus Psiloptera Lacordaire is redescribed and the 3 species (cupreopunctata Schaeffer, drummondi (Laporte & Gory), and webbii LeConte) from North America north of Mexico are redescribed, figured, and keyed. Lectotypes are designated for the following species of Psiloptera: cupreopunctata Schaeffer, simplex Waterhouse, woodhousei (LeConte), valens LeConte, ocularis (Casey), parva (Casey), webbii LeConte, and arizonica (Casey).
4009985| A species of the genus Pterostichus Bonelli, Pterostichus barri new species, is described from specimens collected in the Appalachian Mountains. It belongs to the subgenus Feronina Casey and differs from the only other species included in that subgenus, P. palmi Schaeffer, in having three (instead of two) discal setae on elytral interval 3 and the median lobe of the aedeagus is more robust with the apical lamella shorter. Pterostichus barri differs from P. (Paraferonia) lubricus LeConte, a morphologically similar species also living in the Appalachian Mountains, in having the elytral striae more impressed, particularly the lateral ones, the last visible sternum of the male with a small, median protuberance, the median lobe rounded between the basal bulb and the shaft, and the right paramere elongate apically. /// On dcrit une nouvelle espce du genre Pterostichus Bonelli, Pterostichus barri,  partir de spcimens rcolts dans les Appalaches. L' espce appartient au sous-genre Feronina Casey et diffre de la seule autre espce place dans le sous-genre, P. palmi Schaeffer, par la prsence de trois, au lieu de deux, soies discales sur le troisime interstrie lytral et par le lobe mdian de l'dage plus robuste avec la lame apicale plus courte. Pterostichus barri diffre du P. (Paraferonia) lubricus LeConte, une espce morphologiquement similaire vivant galement dans les Appalaches, par les stries lytrales plus fortement graves, particulirement les stries latrales, le dernier sternum abdominal visible du mle portant une petite protubrance mdiane, le lobe mdian de l'dage arrondi entre le bulbe basal et le manche, et le paramre droit allong  l'apex. 
40664381|The third instar of Phytholaema herrmanni Germain and Phytholaema dilutipes (Fairmaire and Germain) (Scarabaeidae: Melolonthinae) are described and illustrated. The larvae were reared under laboratory conditions from eggs laid by adults and larvae collected from pasture soil. This is the first description of larvae of the genus Phytholaema Blanchard. The larvae of both species have a vestigial sclerotized structure on the pleura of A9 and many other similar characteristics. The similar size of abdominal spiracles A6 and A8 in P. dilutipes is key to differentiating it from P. herrmanni, which has spiracle A8 smaller than spiracle A6. Se describe e ilustra el tercer estadio de Phytholaema herrmanni Germain y Phytholaema dilutipes (Fairmaire y Germain) (Scarabaeidae: Melolonthinae). Las larvas fueron criadas bajo condiciones de laboratorio desde huevos puestos por los adultos y desde larvas colectadas desde el suelo bajo praderas. Esta es la primera descripcin de larvas del gnero Phytholaema Blanchard. Las larvas de ambas especies presentan una estructura vestigial esclerotizada en la pleura de A9 y muchas otras caractersticas similares. El tamao del espirculo de A6 similar al espirculo de A8 en P. dilutipes es clave para diferenciarla de P. herrmanni, la cual tiene el espirculo de A8 ms pequeo que el espirculo de A6.
4008699|Stephanucha thoracica Casey was found to live and breed in mounds of the southeast pocket gopher, Geomys pinetus Rafinesque, in north central Florida. Larvae were reared and are here described. Ritcher's (1966) key to Cetoniinae larvae is modified to incorporate this genus. Observations on the life history of S. thoracica are reported, and relationships between pocket gophers and the genus Stephanucha are postulated.
3999831|The habits, geographical distribution, and taxonomy of 13 species from the United States, Mexico, and El Salvador are discussed. Adults prefer leguminous shrubs of the genera Prosopis, Acacia, and Cercidium in which to oviposit, and Mexico appears to be the center of distribution for this group. Illustrations and a key to separate the species are presented, and the following 7 new species are described: Chrysobothris paramodesta, and C. vogti from Mexico, Yucatan; C. explicationis from Mexico, Sinaloa; C. knulli from Arizona; C. brevitarsis from Mexico, Oaxaca; C. verityi from Mexico, Michoacan; and C. paratabalipa from Mexico, Oaxaca.
40664384|The 100th anniversary of the publication of W. S. Blatchley's An Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue of the Coleoptera or Beetles (Exclusive of the Rhynchophora) Known to Occur in Indiana is observed. Reasons behind this classic monograph's enduring utility are explored. In addition, the volume's origin, projected audience, and relationships to later identification manuals are examined, along with Blatchley's other major entomological contributions. Blatchley's Coleoptera in Indiana became a model for several regional studies and was not superseded for close to 90 years.
4008897| A rare 1988 publication describing a new genus and 190 new species of Cuban beetles is reported. New synonymies are Rhysodes cubanus Zayas = Plesioglymmius compactus Bell and Bell; Colpodes silviae Zayas = Platynus aequinoctialis Chaudoir; Thonalmus orientalis Zayas = Thonalmus mariani Wojciechowska and Slipiski; Procula orientalis Zayas = Olla v-nigrum (Mulsant); Loxostethus quadrimaculata Zayas = Loxostethus fasciatus Triplehorn; Diaperis viridula Zayas = Platydema antennatum Laporte and Brull; and Isophaenus israeli Zayas = Xenorhipis vauriei Cazier. New combinations include Acanthocerus turquinensis Zayas = Ceratocanthus turquinensis (Zayas). 
4009472|Aquatic Coleoptera assemblages present in floating vegetation in the ecotone between subtropical forest and pampasic grassland in Punta Lara (Buenos Aires, Argentina) were characterized and compared. Four pools, one located in the forest, two in the grassland and one in the forest/grassland ecotone, were sampled during a two years period (July 1996-June 1998). For each sampling station species richness and diversity were calculated, and they were compared through two similarity coefficients (Jaccard and Winer). Aquatic species of Dryopidae, Hydrochidae, Hydrophilidae, Hydraenidae, Limnichidae, Scirtidae, Haliplidae, Gyrinidae, Dytiscidae and Noteridae were identified. Highest species richness was registered in the grasslands, and lowest in the forest/grassland ecotone. Cluster analysis showed highest similarity between grassland areas, and between these and the intermediate pool, and lowest between the forest and the other areas. Biogeographical remarks are discussed.
4542982|Diversity of Galician water beetles (Coleoptera: Gyrinidae, Haliplidae, Noteridae, Hygrobiidae, Dytiscidae and Hydrophiliade) was analyzed using a database created by collecting species records from several data sources. Most data came from a long-term sampling program carried out by one of the authors across the whole region but further local studies provided additional data. To assess the inventory completeness as well as to estimate the species richness, both an asymptotic model and some non-parametric estimators were used. Database records were utilized as a sampling-effort surrogate. Total richness estimations predicted by these different methods range between 117 and 131 species. Therefore, it seems that between 86 and 97% of the beetle fauna belonging to the studied families was recorded, so that the inventory has reached an acceptable level of completeness (113 species). A list of the Galician species of Gyrinidae, Haliplidae, Noteridae, Hygrobiidae, Dytiscidae and Hydrophilidae is given.
4009594|Ripidius pectinicornis Thunberg, a parasitoid of the german cockroach Blattella germanica L., has a sporadic, anthropogenically cosmopolitan distribution. Consequently, there have been numerous conflicting opinions regarding its occurrence in the United States. I argue that although R. pectinicornis has been collected in the continental U.S. it is not established here and that, while relatively frequently collected on Oahu, Hawaii, its status there remains uncertain.
41314167|A detailed and accurate survey of the insect fauna of rotting wood can be difficult due to the physical and mechanical properties of the habitat. Quarantining pieces or parts of dead wood in emergence chambers and collecting the insects that emerge is an effective survey method. Here we describe an inexpensive emergence chamber made from an 18-gallon (ca. 68-L) Sterilite plastic tote box that was modified by adding a removable bottom collection jar and ventilation to the top and side. Ninety of these emergence chambers were three-fourths filled with dead wood (2.5-20 cm diameter) of various decay classes, and run for 24 months in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. A total of 5,692 adult Coleoptera specimens representing 50 families, 226 genera, and 275+ species were collected. Selected results are presented to illustrate the effectiveness of the design. Five fundamental axes of emergence chamber design are identified and discussed.We also compare this design to other published emergence chamber designs.
4009377|Descriptions and illustrations are given for Tricorynus cryptoglyptus, new species from South Florida and Byrrhodes omnistrius, new species from Central Alabama. Sexes of Stagetus grossus White are discussed, and the male genitalia and antenna are illustrated.
4009176|Based on external structural features and those of the male and female genitalia, the monobasic broscine carabid genus Nothobroscus, new genus, is proposed and diagnosed, along with N. chilensis, new species (type locality: CHILE, Valdivia, 2.5 km. SSW Puerto Fui L. Pirehueico). The first member of the subtribe Broscina to be reported from southern South America, this species inhabits Nothofagus forests. A key is provided to separate Nothobroscus from the other broscine genera inhabiting southern South America. Based on postulated synapomorphic features of mouthparts and genitalia, Nothobroscus is most closely related to the Australian genus Eurylychnus Bates and the New Zealand genus Diglymma Sharp.
4008834|Parachrysina borealis is described as new, and a revised key to the species is provided. Parachrysina borealis represents the northernmost extent of the genus and is the only species of Areodina known from northeastern Mexico.
4009002|New host plant associations and distribution data are given for 45 species of Florida Chrysomelidae. Eleven species or subspecies are newly recorded from the state: Babia quadriguttata (Olivier), Cryptocephalus mutabilis Melsheimer, Diachus chlorizans (Suffrian), Brachypnoea puncticollis (Say) [new combination]; Brachypnoea clypealis (Horn) [new combination], Glyptoscelis albicans Baly, Metachroma zayasi Blake, Microtheca picea (Guerin), Disonycha alternata (Illiger), Disonycha d. discoidea (Fabricius), Disonycha d. abbreviata Melsheimer). Metachroma zayasi Blake represents a new U.S. record. Spintherophyta igneicollis (Baly) is removed from the Florida fauna list.
4008230|Eight new species from Jamaica are described: Byrrhodes jamaicensis, Cryptoramorphus canutus, Cryptoramorphus flavidus, Calymmaderus carinatus, Calymmaderus interruptus, Microthaptor punctatus, Tricorynus acuminatus, and Tricorynus sparsus. Each species is described and compared with a related species. The male aedeagi of 6 of the new species are illustrated.
3999618|A new genus Holcelmis with 2 new species, H. woodruffi and H. mamore, and a related new genus and species, Epodelmis rosa, are described from the lowlands of Bolivia.
3999859|Stenodontes dasytomus dasytomus (Say) is recorded from Casuarina equisetifolia Forst. and Bursera simaruba (L.) Sarg., and Eburia stigma (Olivier) from a hardwood for the first time. Observations of Derancistrus scabrosus (Gahan) indicate it may be diurnal.
3999769| Harpalus chilensis Solier, 1849 is not a member of the genus Harpalus but belongs in the subtribe Anisodactylina and warrants separate generic rank. The genus Allendia is described with Harpalus chilensis Solier, 1849 as its type species. This genus is the sister group of Criniventer van Emden, 1953, and these 2 possibly evolved in a region west of the Andes of South America and then later dispersed eastward. The valvifer of the ovipositor of Criniventer rufus (Brull, 1838) is also described and illustrated, and a correction made in an earlier characterization of the elytra of this species. 
41316654|Bryelmis Barr, a new genus of elmid, and three new species, Bryelmis idahoensis Barr, Bryelmis rivularis Barr, and Bryelmis siskiyou Barr, are described from streams and springs in Washington, Oregon, California, and Idaho. Drawings or photographs of the adult habitus and male genitlia of each species, and of the larval habitus of the genus, are included, as well as a key to the adults of the species and revised couplets for insertion into existing adult and larval keys to the Elmidae. The biogeography, habitat, and microhabitat of the species are discussed. Aquatic liverworts are the unusual primary microhabitat of all three species of Bryelmis.
4009227|New distribution and/or biological information is presented for 67 species in the following genera of Buprestidae: Acmaeodera Eschscholtz, Actenodes Lacordaire, Agrilus Curtis, Anthaxia Eschscholtz, Brachys Solier, Chrysobothris Eschscholtz, Cypriacis Casey, Dicerca Eschscholtz, Lampetis Spinola, Mastogenius Solier, Melanophila Eschscholtz, Micrasta Kerremans, Polycesta Solier, Spectralia Casey, and Taphrocerus Solier and Schizopus laetus LeConte of the Schizopodidae. Unknown sexes are described of the following: Agrilus diospyroides Knull, A. eleanorae Fisher, A. horni Kerremans, A. ohioensis Knull, A. osburni Knull, and A. pubifrons Fisher. Melanophila arcuata Fall is placed in new synonymy under M. lecontei Obenberger.
4009770|The first description for the larval stage of Eurysphindus LeConte is provided based on the North American species Eurysphindus hirtus LeConte and Eurysphindus comatulus McHugh. Diagnoses are given to distinguish the larvae of these species. New host data for the genus suggest greater specificity for breeding than for adult feeding. Eurysphindus species may prefer to breed in some foliicolous myxomycetes. Eurysphindus hirtus larvae use modified setae to hold slime mold sporangia over the dorsum in an apparent cloaking behavior.
40389438|We conducted a study to explore which beetles utilize dead twigs in a Louisiana secondary forest and the effect of debris position on the beetle community. Twigs averaging 14 mm in diameter from one tree of Quercus falcata Michaux (southern red oak) were placed randomly into bundles of ten. At each of three sites, three bundles were laid on the ground, three were propped at the base of a living tree, and three were tied tightly above the ground against the branch of a living woody plant. The bundles were collected 10 months later and each was placed into an emergence chamber. More than 400 adult Coleoptera specimens were collected, representing 35 species within 16 families. Cerambycidae (longhorn beetles) and Curculionidae (weevils) exhibited the highest species richness, with nine and five species, respectively. Species richness was significantly different among treatments. Bundles placed on the ground had the lowest richness, aboveground bundles had the highest, and propped bundles were intermediate. Twelve species (34%) were represented by singletons.
4009704|Synommatoides scutellatus, new species, is described from China and is compared with S. shirozui Morimoto from Japan. The relationship between Synommatoides Morimoto and Synommatus Wollaston is discussed and the generic character of Synommatoides Morimoto is recomposed. Type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
4009360|Larvae of the Paropsina, the eucalyptus leaf beetles, feed externally on the foliage of their Eucalyptus hosts. The extreme height of some eucalypt forests (50-90m) severely limits access to their canopies and there is currently a lack of information on how Paropsina utilise these tall native forests. Using Chrysophtharta bimaculata (Olivier) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) as our test animal, we investigated the use of prepupal bucket traps as an indirect means of sampling from different age class forests. Chrysophtharta bimaculata larvae fall from their host trees to pupate in the soil and we demonstrate that simple bucket traps are effective in catching and holding prepupal larvae that drop from the forest canopy. Preliminary data is presented from samples taken in adjacent plantation and mature forest stands, illustrating how this technique may be used in ecological and applied studies.
4008579| Pelidnota hirsutiphallica new species, is described as new from Coln and Bocas del Toro provinces in Panama. It is incorporated into the most recent key to the genus and distinguished from its congeners. 
4009156|The horned passalus beetle, Odontotaenius disjunctus (Illiger), was observed mating during a crepuscular flight. In addition to the first record of a nuptial flight, observations of the elytral positions while in flight differed from the only previously published report on this species.
41316655|This work deals with the taxonomic composition, distribution, and bionomics of the genus Laccophilus Leach in Cuba. One new species, Laccuphilus alariei Megna, DelerHernndez, and Challet, is described. Diagnostic characters, including genitalia, are described and illustrated. A key to the Cuban species of Laccophilus is provided.
4008080|Nicrophorus americanus Olivier is becoming increasingly rare in eastern North America. Its biology is not known but is probably analogous to that of a similarly large and decreasingly abundant European species, N. germanicus Linnaeus. Recent (post-1950) records for N. americanus are given for Arkansas, Illinois, Michigan, Missouri, Ontario, and Tennessee. These records support the contention that N. americanus is an inhabitant of primary forest, its decline and localization attributed to the destruction of primary forest habitat in eastern North America.
4007891|The first instar larvae of Stator chihuahua, S. generalis, S. sordidus, and S. vachelliae are described. Additional descriptive information (antennae) is also provided for S. limbatus, S. pruininus, and S. pygidialis. Characters of the chaetotaxy, head, antennae, prothoracic plate, legs, anal sulcus, and egg were used, if available. A key to the larvae of these species is provided. A principal component analysis was run for purposes of comparing a numerical larval classification with a suggested adult intrageneric grouping scheme. The results indicate mutual agreement, between numerical and intuitive schemes, with respect to S. generalis and S. limbatus. Slight deviation occurs with larval group two (S. chihuahua and S. vachelliae) and significant incongruency with respect to the third larval cluster which includes S. pruininus, S. pygidialis and S. sordidus.
4000022|Between 1975 and 1978, 15 dryopoid species in 4 families were collected in the South Fork of the Shenandoah River Basin. The most abundant species were Stenelmis crenata, S. mera, Optioservus trivittatus, and Psephenus herricki. Of the 11 remaining species, 7 were common and 4 were rare. Seven species were collected at light traps from late June to mid-September. Dubiraphia minima larvae and S. markeli adults were most abundant in pools, S. sandersoni and Ancyronyx variegata were found only in small to large streams, and S. markeli was found only in the large river habitat.
4009006| A natural population of Helochares femoratus (Brull) (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae) at Punta Lara, Buenos Aires, Argentina, was sampled throughout one year. Three cohorts each of first and second instar larvae, but only one cohort of third instar larvae were observed. Adults of both sexes were present throughout the year. Three reproduction periods were observed. 
4000162|Seventeen species of dung beetles, a total of 71,074 specimens, were captured on Cumberland Island, Georgia, in September 1976. The small Onthophagus tuberculifrons was the most common species captured. Phanaeus igneus was the most common of the larger dung beetles. Gongylonema verrucosum was the most common helminth parasite using the beetles as intermediate hosts.
4009567|In Venezuela Amblycerus crassipunctatus Ribeiro-Costa feeds in seeds of Vantanea minor Bentham, Humiriaceae, a new host family for the Bruchidae. Species of Amblycerus Thunberg now are known to feed in from 11 to 14 families of plants, more than any other bruchid genus. Ecological relationships of A. crassipunctatus with its host were compared to A. nigromarginatus (Motschulsky), A. luteonotatus (Pic), A. dispar (Sharp), A. guazumicola Kingsolver and Johnson, A. vitis (Schaeffer), A. acapulcensis Kingsolver, A. robiniae (Fabricius), A. hoffmanseggi (Gyllenhal), A. testaceus (Pic), A. submaculatus (Pic), A. cistelinus (Gyllenhal), A. longesuturalis (Pic), and A. schwarzi Kingsolver and their hosts. A. crassipunctatus damaged 28.5% to 39% of V. minor fruits examined. In other species of Amblycerus where these figures are available, from 01.0% to 61% of the fruits were damaged. We found that eggs of almost all of the species discussed have a similar flange with glue on the periphery. This kind of attachment may prevent the egg from becoming detached from the fruit as it matures and during eclosion of the first instar larva or protect eggs against mechanical injuries. Larvae of most species of Amblycerus feed in several seeds during their development, but A. dispar and A. vitis feed in only one seed. Apparently almost all species of Amblycerus spin a cocoon for pupation. This was evolved probably because the large size of the adults led to the habit of feeding in several seeds. Most bruchids are much smaller in body size than species of Amblycerus and thus pupate inside a single seed that negates the need for a cocoon.
3999945|Ovoviviparity has been discovered in two species of South African opatrine tenebrionid beetles, Eurynotus capensis (F.) and Melanopterus marginicollis Muls. Females carried fully developed larvae within the vagina. Three additional opatrine species which may be ovoviviparous were also identified.
4007895|The larva and pupa of Oxyporus lateralis Gravenhorst (Coleoptera; Staphylinidae) are described and illustrated. The larva has been misdetermined in past literature. The honey mushroom, Armillariella mellea (Fr.) Karst., was the host for larvae obtained in the White Mountains, New Hampshire.
4009777|Distributional and/or biological data are presented for 92 species and 1 subspecies of Buprestidae from Canada, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, and the United States in the following genera and subgenera: Acmaeodera Eschscholtz, Acmaeoderopsis Barr, Actenodes Dejean, Agrilaxia Kerremans, Agrilus (s. str.) Curtis, Agrilus (Engyaulus) Waterhouse, Anthaxia (Haplanthaxia) Reitter, Aphanisticus Latreille, Brachys Dejean, Buprestis (s. str.) Linneaus, Buprestis (Knulliobuprestis) Kurosawa, Chrysobothris Eschscholtz, Chrysophana LeConte, Dicerca (s. str.) Eschscholtz, Dicerca (Argante) Gistel, Hippomelas Laporte and Gory, Mastogenius Solier, Pachyschelus Solier, Phaenops Megerle, Polycesta (Jamaiquesia) Cobos, Polycesta (Tularensia) Nelson, Sphaerobothris (s. str.) Semenov-Tian-Shanskij and Rikhter, Taphrocerus Solier, and Xenorhipis LeConte. Acmaeodera cazieri Knull is validated.
4009636|The genus Haematoides Fairmaire is moved from the Dascillidae to the Byturidae. The genus Byturodes Barber is synonymized with Haematoides new synonymy. The type species of these two genera, Byturodes grahami Barber and Haematoides davidii Fairmaire are also synonymized new synonymy.
4009342| Two cave-dwelling beetle species from the Cantabrian karst, Trechus apoduvalipenis, new species, and Apoduvalius (Trichapoduvalius) leonensis, new species, are described. In both species the following characters are examined: antennae, elytra, chaetotaxy and in particular, the structure of the male and female genitalia. Affinities with closely related species are discussed in the study of a series of morphological characteristics. Ecological data are also included. /// Se describen dos especies caverncolas del karst Cantbrico, Trechus apoduvalipenis, especie nueva, y Apoduvalius (Trichapoduvalius) leonensis, especie nueva. En ambas especies se destacan los caracteres que las definen, como: antenas, litros, quetotaxia y, en particular, la estructura de la genitalia masculina y femenina. Se discuten sus afinidades con las especies ms relacionadas mediante el estudio de una serie de caractersticas morfolgicas. Tambin se aportan datos ecolgicos. 
4009212|A new monotypic genus of Phoracanthini (Cerambycidae: Cerambycinae), Phytrocaria Wang, is proposed for a new species, P. phaea Wang, described from southern Australia.
40389445|On Barro Colorado Island, Panama, a series of field observations were conducted to evaluate the role of burrower species of Scarabaeinae (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae) in the removal of dung. Using tapir dung placed on the soil surface, three species were observed during the diurnal period, five other species were observed in the nocturnal period. Of those eight species, Onthophagus acuminatus Harold was demonstrated to be the most varied behaviorally in obtaining dung, to include kleptoparasitism.
3999633| Lectotypes are designated and label data are recorded for 30 species of Aphodiinae in the following museums: Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle (Paris), Staatliches Museum fr Tierkunde (Dresden, DDR), Museum fr Naturkunde (Berlin, DDR), Deutsches Entomologisches Institut (Berlin, DDR). 
4543012|Through an analysis of the primary setae and pores of first-instar larvae of 31 genera of Hydroporinae, and 22 genera belonging to other dytiscid subfamilies, the ancestral system of primary setae and pores of the maxilla of the Hydroporinae is reconsidered. Fourteen setae and seven pores have been assigned to the ground plan pattern of the hydroporine maxilla. Larvae of Hydroporinae differ from those of other Dytiscidae in the absence of the primary pores MXa, MXb, MXc and MXd, and in the presence of the primary pore MXk.
4008961|Zhantievus lymantriae, a new genus and species of dermestid beetle from Morocco, is described and compared with other more or less closely related genera in the subfamily Megatominae. The species has been found feeding on the eggs of the gypsy moth, Lymantria dispar L.
3999555|A study to determine the diel periodicities of certain carrion beetles was conducted at 2 locations in New Jersey. Beetles were attracted to decomposing chicken leg bait in concealed cans suspended above the ground. This design required olfaction for bait location. Data from 19 diurnal collections and 18 nocturnal collections were recorded. Silpha americana, S. noveboracensis, S. inaequalis, and Nicrophorus tomentosus were either primarily or completely diurnal in finding carrion. Necrodes surinamensis and Nicrophorus orbicollis were all taken nocturnally. Leptodiridae, Staphylinidae, and Histeridae that were attracted to this carrion were primarily diurnal.
3999920| In the New World, beetles of the primarily tropical family Passalidae occur in rotting wood from southern Michigan and southern Ontario to northern Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, and southern Brazil. They are found in the West Indies, Isla del Coco, and Galapagos Islands. They are not known from the forests of southern Chile or the Pacific North-West, except for the only known fossil of the family from the Oligocene of Oregon. A few species, mostly Proculini, are encountered above 2800 m elevation. The most widely distributed species are those of the tropical lowlands below 1500 m. Most species occur in moist forests, though some species occur in dry forests and even in nests of desert ants. Most species live in hardwood but some are found in conifers and a few in palms. Passalids are occasionally found in other microhabitats, possibly including limestone caves inhabited by oilbirds. New records are cited for various species from Peru, Costa Rica, Belize, Mexico, Trinidad, and Grenada. /// Colepteros de la familia tropical Passalidae viven en la madera podrida desde el sur de Mchigan y Ontario hasta el norte de Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, y el sur de Brasil. Tambin, se encuentran en las Indias Occidentales, la Isla del Coco, y las Islas Galpagos. No se conocen en los bosques del sur de Chile ni el nordoeste de Norteamrica, con la excepcin del nico fsil conocido de la familia, del Oligoceno de Oregon. Pocas especies, principalmente Proculini, se distribuyen por arriba de 2800 m de altitud. Las especies con mas amplia distribucin son aquellas de las tierras bajas tropicales a altitudes inferiores a los 1500 m. El mayor nmero de especies ocurre en los bosques hmedos, aunque unas especies viven en los bosques secos y an en los nidos de hormigas subdesrticas. La gran mayora de las especies viven en la madera de dicotiledones aunque algunas se encuentran en conferas y unas cuantas en palmeras. Ocasionalmente, los paslidos se encuentran en otros microhabitats, entre estos se incluye muy posiblemente las cuevas calcreas en donde vive el gucharo (Steatornis caripensis Humboldt). Se citan varias especies como nuevos registros para Per, Costa Rica, Belice, Mxico, Trinidad, y Grenada. 
4543016|Two new species of the myrmecophilous histerid genus Chlamydopsis Westwood are described. One, C. doutti Caterino, new species, belongs to the C. epipleuralis group, and is closely related to C. convexa Caterino. The close relatives of this species all occur in temperate areas in southeastern Australia, while C. doutti is known only from a single locality in central Queensland. The other species, C. chadster Caterino, new species, represents the third true Chlamydopsis known from New Guinea. It is known only from the type locality on Japen Island, off the northwest coast of Papua, Indonesia, and is not obviously related to the other two New Guinean Chlamydopsis.
4009292|Several evolutionary trends of sphaeridiine beetles are discussed: terrestrial habits, larval developmental time, number of eggs/egg case, shape of the egg cases, prey consumption, construction of pupal chambers, reduction of the legs, development of hypopharyngeal lobes, symmetry of mandibles and labroclypeus, reduction of the ligula and fusion of stemmata. A discussion on the state of knowledge of the immature stages of Hydrophilidae at a generic level is presented; of the four most diverse zoogeographic areas, the Oriental, Australian and Ethiopian are the less known and the Neotropical is relatively well known; the Palaearctic and Nearctic are the least diverse but the best known.
3999426|The name Malacorhinus tilghmani Mignot is proposed as a replacement name for Diabrotica tripunctata Jacoby a homonym of Diabrotica tripunctata (F.).
4009422|Euconnus longiceps Fall, originally described from Alaska, is redescribed, and the labium, maxilla, mandible, antenna, male aedeagus, and female genitalia are illustrated and described for the first time. This species cannot be assigned readily to any of the subgenera recognized by T. L. Casey and is therefore placed as Euconnus Thomson, incertae sedis.
4008737|Data are provided under 34 species in the genus Chrysobothris Eschscholtz; about one-third of these are treated in detail. The following new synonymy is proposed: Chrysobothris beeri Barr = C. caurina Horn; C. blanchardi Horn = C. rotundicollis Gory and Laporte; C. burkei Chamberlin = C. semisculpta LeConte; C. columbiana Barr = C. rotundicollis; C. grandis Chamberlin = C. monticola Fall; C. lata Kerremans = C. cribraria Mannerheim. Chrysobothris sinaloae Van Dyke is treated as a subspecies of C. peninsularis Schaeffer. New state/provincial records are given for 22 species, and new larval host records are provided for four species.
4008833|Diabrotica species (Chrysomelidae: Galerucinae) have been known for 100 years to be involved in mimicry complexes with species of Lema (Chrysomelidae: Criocerinae). Additional mimetic pairs of species of these two groups are identified and described, namely D. lucifera Erichson and L. buckleyi Baly, and some polymorphic species, namely D. elegantula Baly and L. ducalis Lacordaire. Of more significance, new evidence is presented which suggests mimetic resemblance of D. pulchella Jacquelin du Val and Maepha opulenta Walker, a species of Lithosiinae (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae).
3999678|A synonymy and redescription are provided for Amblycerus vitis (Schaeffer). Eggs of A. vitis are attached to mature fruits of Vitis arizonica by a unique peripheral flange with adhesive at its margin. Similar eggs have been described for 6 other bruchids, most of which are in the Amblycerinae. A larva usually enters the fruit directly, consumes the contents of a single seed, and pupates inside that seed. A. vitis apparently has 1 generation per year, is confined to 1 host, and its distribution is limited to central and southeastern Arizona. Because of its low rate of infestation of the seeds of the Arizona grape (less than 1%), it is doubtful that it has much effect on the host's population dynamics. A species of Urosigalphus (Braconidae) is a parasite of A. vitis. Figures are provided of the dorsal and lateral habitus of the adult, scutellum, pronotum, male genitalia, method of attachment of the egg, dorsal and ventral surfaces of the egg, cross section through the egg, and a dried fruit of V. arizonica showing an adult exit hole.
4000131|The sculptilis group of Colymbetes in North America is composed of three species -- C. sculptilis Harris, C. exaratus Leconte, and C. dolobratus (Paykull) -- which have been quite difficult to delineate. Multiple-discriminant analysis (MDA) and stepwise-discriminant analysis (SDA) in conjunction with non-mensural characters, provide a highly convincing picture of the relationship of the three species. Seven characters were used in the analysis, and the first two characters account for virtually all of the dispersion found in the comparisons. It was demonstrated that exaratus and sculptilis do not intergrade, but that exaratus is composed of two well-differentiated subspecies.
4008295|The Pandeleteius armatus group is defined, a lectotype is designated for P. armatus Champion, and Pandeleteius haruspex Howden, n. sp., is described from Sonora, Mexico.
4009855|Quetarsius peteri, a new species of quediine rove beetle from southeast China is described. Now the genus Quetarsius Smetana includes three species: the earlier described Q. neu Smetana and Q. jeau Smetana, both endemic to Taiwan; and Q. peteri from the Asian mainland adjacent to Taiwan. The taxonomic history of Quetarsius is summarized.
4008374| Neoubychia mexicana, a new genus and new species of blind weevil, is described from cloud forest sites in Hidalgo, Oaxaca, and San Luis Potos, Mexico. Convergent characteristics of soil and litter dwelling Curculionidae are discussed, particularly as they affect traditional subfamily characters. 
4008061|The 3rd stage larva of Pseudocanthon perplexus (LeConte) is illustrated and described for the first time. Observations on other juvenile stages and the laboratory and field biology of the adults are given.
4542978| Arboreal foraging by dung beetles has been reported from tropical rainforests in several regions. In the central Amazon, Brazil, the widespread, arboreal dung beetle Canthon subhyalinus Harold was caught most often in dung traps at 8-24 m above the forest floor, below the height of most primate activity in the area, where dung should be plentiful yet competition for it low. Studies of dung beetle diversity routinely only include traps set on the forest floor, missing arboreal species such as C. subhyalinus, and generating misleading descriptions of dung beetle diversity and abundance. Future studies of dung beetle diversity should include arboreal traps to accurately sample the diversity and abundance of species that rarely forage at ground level. /// Forragear arbreo por besouros do esterco tern sido reportado para florestas tropicais, em vrias regies. Na Amaznia central, Brasil, a espcie Canthon subhyalinus Harold, com ampla distribuiao, foi capturada inmeras vezes em armadilhas de esterco em alturas de 8-24 m acima do cho da floresta, abaixo da altura da mayor parte das atividades dos primatas da rea, justamente onde o esterco deve estar abundante e a competio ser baixa para a espcie. Os estudos sobre a diversidade de besouros do esterco usualmente incluem somente as armadilhas localizadas no cho da floresta, no assinalando espcies arbreas tal como C subhyalinus, gerando distores nas descries da diversidade e abundancia desses besouros coprfagos. Os futuros estudos sobre a diversidade desses insetos devero incluir armadilhas arbreas para poder relatar a diversidade e abundancia de espcies que raramente forrageiam no nvel do cho. 
29739228|Specimens were collected using drift nets placed at the head of the spring, suggesting the species is subterranean and occurs in nearby areas of the Edwards-Trinity Aquifer. In addition, the new taxon is characteristic of subterranean diving beetles in having adults depigmented, relatively soft, and lacking metathoracic wings and compound eyes. In addition, the taxon is diagnosed among all adult Dytiscidae in having: 1) the head extremely large relative to the rest of the body, 2) the pronotum short and cordate; 3) the prosternal process small, short and not extending to the mesosternum; 4) the elytra fused along the suture; 5) the elytron and elytral epipleuron extending ventromedially, concealing large lateral portions of the abdominal sterna; 6) the female internal genitalia with a large, elongate, ring-shaped structure on the bursa. The species is placed in the tribe Hydroporini (Hydroporinae) based on the character states: 1) pro- and mesotarsi pseudotetramerous; 2) male genitalia bilaterally symmetrical; 3) scutellum not visible with the elytra closed; 4) prosternum in lateral aspect declivous; 5) metatarsal claws the same length; 6) apices of elytra evenly rounded; 7) metepisternum extending to mesocoxal cavity externally; 8) male lateral lobe with one segment; 9) metacoxal process with well-developed lobes; 10) anterior margin of metafemur distinctly separated from the lobes of the metacoxal process. Three additional subterranean species are known from North America, Comaldessus stygius Spangler and Barr, 1995, Stygoporus oregonensis Larson and Labonte, 1994, and Haideoporus texanus Young and Longley, 1976. Each of these species is figured and discussed.
4008620| The three species in the genus Areoda are reviewed for the first time. The genus is characterized, a key to species is provided, each species is described, spatial and temporal distributions are given, and the biogeography is discussed. We consider their distribution to be isolated and relictual in the Atlantic coastal forests of southeastern Brazil. /// As trs espcies do gnero Areoda so revisadas pela primeira vez. O gnero  caracterizado,  dado uma chave para as espcies, cada espcie  descrita, distribuies espaciais e temporais so dadas, e um comentrio breve discute a biogeografia destes besouros. Ns consideramos suas distribuies sejam isoladas e relituiais na costa da floresta Atlntica no suleste do Brasil. 
4008522|Pentagonica felix new species, from southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico, is described and illustrated.
4008138|The number of hickory (Carya texana Buckl.) twigs girdled, and therefore destroyed, by Oncideres cingulata (Say) increases disproportionately with the size of individual trees and the density of populations of trees. Thus, large trees and dense stands of hickory are at risk of incurring a disproportionately large amount of twig damage. Girdled twigs contain concentrated amounts of organic nitrogen, which are lost from the trees. This loss of nitrogen accentuates the effect of beetles on the trees. An interactive feedback mechanism may aid the trees in reducing continuous annual damage by the beetles. Such a mechanism involves the size, age structure, and availability of twigs acceptable by the beetles for girdling.
4008552|This paper is the first in a series on Euphoria and related genera. In this part are presented a history of the group; a key to the genera; brief treatments of the genera Euphoriopsis, Chlorixanthe and Stephanucha; and an introduction to Euphoria, including generic synonymy, morphological characteristics and biological notes. Anatropis is placed as a new synonym of Stephanucha; Euphoriaspis and the subgenera Erirhipidia, Euphorhipis, Haplophoria, Isorhipina, and Rhipiphorina are placed as new synonyms of Euphoria. Stephanucha discicollis Thomson is removed to Euphoria.
4009026| Stratiorrhina tarsalis, new species, from Malaysia and Borneo is described and compared to the other species of the genus. The female of Eterodiurus singularis Senna from North India is described for the first time, and new records of the species for Laos and Vietnam are given. The study of the holotype of Diurus compendarius Kleine revealed that this species is a synonym of Eterodiurus singularis, new synonymy. /// Viene descritta Stratiorrhina tarsalis, n. sp., di Malesia e Borneo e la nuova specie viene comparata con tutte le altre del genere. Viene descritta per la prima volta la femmina di Eterodiurus singularis Senna, del Nord India; la specie viene segnalata per la prima volta per il Laos ed il Vietnam. Lo studio dell'holotypus di Diurus compendarius Kleine ha evidenziato che questa specie  sinonimo di Eterodiurus singularis (syn. nov.). 
3999469|The genus Neocylloepus is created to include N. (Elmis) sculptipennis Sharp 1882, N. hintoni (=Cylloepus sculptipennis as redescribed by Hinton, 1940) in the Mexican states of Mexico and Morelos, N. boeseli from Devil's River, Texas and the state of Nuevo Leon, Mexico, N. arringtoni from Rio Axtla in southeastern San Luis Potosi, Mexico, N. petersoni from northern Chiapas, Mexico, and N. sandersoni from Costa Rica and Panama. The range of the type species, N. sculptipennis, extends from the state of Nayarit in Mexico through Guatemala and Honduras to northwestern Nicaragua. Two of the new species being based upon unique male specimens, the species key is based largely upon male characters, especially those of the genitalia. N. hintoni is based upon Hinton's description. Types of the other 4 new species are deposited in the Stovall Museum of Science and History, Norman, Oklahoma. A total of 142 adults and 91 larvae were examined. Since both adults and larvae key out to various other genera (Cylloepus, Elsianus, Microcylloepus, and Neoelmis) in existing keys to the elmids of Mexico and the United States, modifications of the keys of Arnett, Bertrand, Hinton, Leech and Chandler, and Leech and Sanderson are presented for the insertion of Neocylloepus. This genus is probably closest to Hexacylloepus.
4008517|Flight muscle changes were investigated for populations of the eastern larch beetle, Dendroctonus simplex LeConte, in Newfoundland during 1983 and 1984. Overwintered beetles emerged from tamarack, Larix larcina (Du Roi) K. Koch, with large, fully developed metathoracic flight muscles. Within 8 to 12 d after start of egg gallery formation muscles completely degenerated, fat body size decreased and gonad size increased to occupy most of the metathoracic space. Flight muscles regenerated completely in only 15% of reemerged beetles which were assumed capable of flight. The proportion of reemerged beetles capable of flight is probably too small to overcome the resistance of healthy tamarack and may be able to establish second broods only in weakened and wind-felled trees, stumps and logging slash. Incomplete flight muscle regeneration in most reemerged beetles may be a result of selection for a single brood per year in Newfoundland where climate is generally not conducive to production of a second brood.
4008008|Insects select their habitats by orienting to habitat cues. Responses to olfactory stimuli associated with soil microorganisms help carabids to locate their habitats, while kinetic responses to microclimatic factors within the habitat serve to maintain favorable body temperatures and to regulate timing of various activities.
4009803|Photuris bethaniensis McDermott, 1953, is recorded only from Sussex County, Delaware, from the original species description. In 1998 we relocated P. bethaniensis near the type locality. From 1998 through 2000, Photuris bethaniensis was found exclusively within freshwater interdunal swales occurring within Delaware's backdune depressions. The species was discovered in 7 of 18 swales surveyed within a 25-km stretch of Atlantic shoreline. Photuris bethaniensis was most common in swales with dense shrub thickets. The temporal stability of freshwater interdunal swales may be an important factor influencing the distribution of this species.
40983340|Several species of lady beetles are of conservation concern due to the extirpation of some species from large areas of North America. Historical lady beetle specimens from New Madrid and Pemiscot Counties, Missouri were examined and compared to recent captures. Adalia bipunctata (L.), Anatis mali (Say), Anatis labiculata (Say), and Coccinella novemnotata Herbst were present historically, but have not been collected since 1970. Coccinella septempunctata L., Harmona axyridis (Pallas), and Neoharmonia venusta (Melsheimer) are relative newcomers to the study area. The non-native species, C. septempunctata and H. axyridis, combined accounted for the majority of lady beetle captures within the study area during 2008 and 2009. The implications of the historical data with regard to these changes are discussed.
4008014|Eggs, larvae, and pupae of Anacassis languida (Boheman 1854) are described, and some notes on its life cycle are given. All stages were found living on Baccharis retusa and B. pauciflosculosa (Compositae).
3999903|Scaphinotus klahowyae Perrault (1973) is shown to be conspecific with S. johnsoni Van Dyke (1924), and the names are synonymized. Characters likely to cause confusion in comparing Perrault's description with other accounts of the species (elytral striae, male median lobe, pronotum, prosternal process, and color) are discussed. Perrault's combination of the subgenus Brennus with Stenocantharus is unwarranted. His characterization of the habitat at Klahowya, Washington, as "rain forest" is technically incorrect.
40983333|Hemiphileurus elbitae Neita and Ratcliffe, new species, is described from Colombia, with supporting illustrations, a diagnosis, distribution, and observations on biology. Descriptions of the third instar and pupa are also included, along with a key to the known larvae of Hemiphileurus Kolbe species. Una nueva especie, Hemiphileurus elbitae Neita y Ratcliffe, de Colombia es descrita, con ilustraciones, diagnosis, distribucin, y observacines de su biologa. Se describe la larva de tercer estadio y pupa, y se incluye una clave para las larvas conocidas de tercer estadio del gnero Hemiphileurus Kolbe.
4008698|Pedonoeces Waterhouse 1845 from the Galapagos Islands is a synonym of Blapstinus Sturm 1826. Relevant name changes because of resultant homonymy include two new names: Blapstinus californicus Aalbu and Triplehorn for Blapstinus pubescens LeConte 1851 and Blapstinus darwini Aalbu and Triplehorn for Pedonoeces opacus Van Dyke 1953. Two new species are described: Blapstinus pacificus from Clarion Island and Blapstinus faulkneri from Socorro Island. Both islands belong to the Revillagigedo Group, Mexico.
4008873|Third-instar larvae of two species of Omorgus (persuberosus Vaurie and an unidentified species) from South America are described. This brings to four (three Omorgus and one Polynoncus) the number known from the continent. A key to larvae of the three genera found on the continent, Trox Fabricius, Omorgus Erichson and Polynoncus Burmeister, and diagnoses of the genera, are provided.
4543007| Eulechriops hovorei, new species, is described from Arizona and Guerrero, Mxico and named in honor of the late Frank Hovore. Eulechriops leucospilus Champion is reported for the first time from Mxico and E. elongatus Champion for the first time from California. 
4009736|The mature larva and pupa of Tomoxia lineella LeConte are described and illustrated based on specimens collected and reared from a standing large-toothed aspen (Populus grandidentata Michaux) in a northern-mixed forest element in south-central Wisconsin. Larvae were collected on 30 March 2001 and 23 April 2001 from tunnels approximately two cm under the bark in the wood of the south-facing side of the tree. Tomoxia lineella was previously unrecorded from Wisconsin.
4007982|The remains of a tiger beetle, C. limbalis Klug, were obtained from basal deposits of a kettle depression infilled shortly after ice retreat from the area west of Toronto. The specimen most closely matches the greenish form (spreta LeConte) today occurring in the northern part of the C. limbalis range. The discovery of C. limbalis indicates that it survived south of the ice front during maximum advance of Laurentide ice and that it was colonising open-ground following the retreat of the ice.
4008954| Scymnus suturalis Thunberg, 1795, a Palearctic species of Coccinellidae, tribe Scymnini, is recorded as established in Qubec, Canada. A short description of the Canadian population and some distributional data are provided. 
3999629|Nesting and reproduction of 3 species and 1 subspecies of Phanaeus were compared in 3 different textural classes of soil. Phanaeus vindex constructed brood balls in each of the soil classes but as the clay content of the soils increased, the number of brood balls constructed increased. The depth to the brood balls below the soil surface decreased as the content of clay in the soil increased. Survival of P. vindex to the third-stage larva was zero in the soil classed as sand, 50% in loamy sand and 95% in sandy clay loam. Phanaeus torrens niger constructed brood balls only in the sandy clay loam soil, whereas P. igneus and P. igneus floridanus failed to construct brood balls.
3999898|A new species of blister beetle, Zonitoschema gombakiensis, is described from Malaysia.
3999781|Platypatrobus lacustris Darlington is reported from New Hampshire for the first time.
4009822|Amborotubus clarkei, new genus and species from a lowland transitional forest in the Department of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia, is described and illustrated based on two female specimens. It is placed into the monotypic Amborotubini new tribe based on the following characters: clypeus bilobed, epipharynx with two anterior setose lobes visible in dorsal view, antennal fossa contiguous with subclypeal area and anterior portion of labrum excavated, mentum platelike and concealing labium and maxilla, pronotal carina asetose, hypomeron with glabrous ocular rests, mesoventrite visible in ventral view, femora and tibiae flattened, tarsal pads transverse and poorly developed, ovipositor with apical styli. The relationship of Amborotubus to other nitidulines is unknown. It is similar in appearance to members of the Australian tribe Cychramptodini, but differs in many morphological details.
4008129|Diel movement and habitat use of adult Agabus disintegratus Crotch were quantitatively examined at a permanent pond in east-central Arizona. Captures in funnel traps showed adults were most active at night in the vegetated shallows. Activity began at sunset and peaked between 2200 and 0400 h MST. Movement declined at dawn with few adults being captured in the later morning hours.
4543033|Megaceras briansaltini Ratcliffe, new species, is described from Peru. A description, diagnosis, and illustrations are provided, and the new species is compared with M. morpheus Burmeister, with which it shares similarities.
4010029|Thirty-nine species of Cerambycidae are recorded for the first time from Iowa. New state records for the Cerambycidae are: Analeptura lineola (Say), Anelaphus pumilus (Newman), Astylopsis collaris (Haldeman), Astylopsis sexguttata (Say), Ataxia brunnea Champlain and Knull, Ataxia hubbardi Fisher, Bellamira scalaris (Say), Centrodera decolorata (Harris), Centrodera sublineata LeConte, Clytoleptus albofasciatus (Laporte and Gory), Clytus ruricola (Olivier), Dorcaschema wildii Uhler, Encyclops caerulea (Say), Goes pulcher (Haldeman), Goes pulverulentus (Haldeman), Grammoptera exigua (Newman), Grammoptera haematites (Newman), Heterachthes quadrimaculatus Haldeman, Leptura subhamata Randall, Lepturges pictus (LeConte), Lepturges regularis (LeConte), Mecas cineracea Casey, Micranoplium unicolor (Haldeman), Monochamus carolinensis (Olivier), Neoclytus approximatus (LeConte), Neoclytus mucronatus mucronatus (Fabricius), Neoclytus scutellaris (Olivier), Oberea ocellata Haldeman, Obrium maculatum (Olivier), Oncideres cingulata cingulata (Say), Saperda imitans Felt and Joutel, Stenocorus cinnamopterus (Randall), Stenocorus vittiger (Randall), Strangalia bicolor (Swederus), Trachysida mutabilis (Newman), Trigonarthris minnesotana (Casey), Typocerus confluens Casey, Typocerus deceptus Knull, and Xestoleptura octonotata (Say). New adult host records are given for Brachyleptura circumdata (Olivier), Charisalia americana (Haldeman), C. ruricola, Goes debilis LeConte, G. exigua, G. haematites, Neoalosterna capitata (Newman), S. vittiger, T. minnesotana, and T. confluens.
3999570|The name Rhagonycha has been used as a full genus by most Europeans, although considered as a subgenus of Cantharis by North American workers. It is here considered a valid genus, and the 43 North American species are listed along with their synonyms.
4009924|The subfamily Necrophilinae Newton is recorded for the first time from China. This subfamily belongs to the Agyrtinae Thomson, a group of beetles which were once included in the Silphidae but are now recognized as an independent family more closely related to the Leiodidae than the Silphidae. Based on 619 specimens collected by pitfall traps from Sichuan province of western China, Necrophilus chinensis Zhou, new species, is described. The endophallus of the aedeagus was studied and is illustrated for the first time for this subfamily. This study fills a distribution gap of Necrophilus Latreille between Japan and Nepal-Bhutan and contributes important data to zoogeographical studies of this group.
4009411|The head and left elytron of an eyeless trechine ground beetle (Carabidae) were isolated from a 40,000 year old peat sample obtained at a seacliff section near Kalaloch, western Olympic Peninsula, Washington State. The blind beetle is most closely related to species of the Trechiama series of Japan.
4008254|Photinus knulli Green breeds within a 5 sq. m lek arena which is reused by each year's new generation. The annual permanency of the site is due to a concatenation of circumstances, most of which seem to be operationally incidental, as follows. Gravid females cannot fly. Larvae are subterranean and so contribute negligibly to dispersal. The new generation of adults then emerges from areas overlying the arena of the previous year. As males eclose, some emerge simultaneously with, and in proximity to, each other: These males link up in flash exchanges and remain on the ground for the rest of their first evening. Others emerge solitarily and thus see no neighbors: These males take wing and, in triplet-flashing flight, patrol along a well-defined flyway. After ca. 1 hr, patrollers find their way back to the arena, cue in on the flash exchanges of grounded males, and land near them. Similarly, males more than 1 day old retire under rocks within the arena at the end of any one evening, then successively emerge again after the dusk of the next, and behave in the same way. When patrollers overfly the arena, they may drop directly down and mingle, or survey the number of grounded males. Surveyors perform wildly erratic designs by streaking their flashes above the arena, and this elicits 3 or 4 rounds of mass, chorusing, triplet-flashing synchrony from them. Ground-to-ground flash exchanges between males follow a novel format. From out of a total cessation of flash activity of all or most grounded males, any one male will flash a triplet, and this will elicit triplets from other rival males whose line-of-sight to him is unobstructed. Triplet relaying can involve as many as ca. sixty participants, and because of terrain obstacles, the male-to-male entrainment almost always follows a single path course, which races through the arena, taking on capricious designs resembling miniature lightning bolts. Four or 5 successive triplet-train rounds are initiated by a first-flashing male. The delay between triplets which produces the relaying effect in the 1st round is reduced in the 2nd round, and whole train synchrony is achieved in the 3rd round. In the 4th and/or 5th rounds, the train dissipates, and cessation again ensues. Females emit spontaneous, prolonged flares when in the presence of numerous contending males, and in this situation, copulation is permitted after ca. 1 hr of complex competitive interactions. Contrastingly, a lone female will broadcast an advertising phrase, and if a male sees this signal, he will fly up to ca. 40 cm above the plant she is on, and spiral down to her. This flight tactic allows him to locate her rapidly, and he is rewarded with copulation in 3 to 4 min.
4009284| The Chrysomelidae (Coleoptera) Cryptocephalus binomus binomus Newman, Kuschelina floridana (Blake), Microtheca ochroloma Stl, Phyllobrotica circumdata (Say), Plagiodera versicolora (Laicharting), and Zygogramma heterothecae Linell are reported from North Carolina for the first time. 
40983310|Field experiments showed that females and males of the American carrion beetle, Necrophila americana (L.), are attracted to 45% isopropanol. Numbers of beetles caught in isopropanol-baited Baker traps reflect differences between microhabitats monitored with this lure. Results also suggest that in addition to utilizing the ground as microhabitat, N. americana explores tree canopies.
4009365|The genus Epacalles Kissinger with its one included species, E. inflatus (Blatchley), is transferred from Cryptorhynchini to Molytini, Conotrachelina. Epacalles is closely related to species placed in the genera Aenesias Champion and Lepilius Champion. Generic definitions need to be reconsidered in this group of taxa. A lectotype is designated for Zascelis oblonga Horn (Cryptorhynchini) and this species is transferred to the genus Cnemidoprion as Cnemidoprion oblongus (Horn). Character states distinguishing C. oblongus from the only other species in the genus, C. serratipes Marshall are presented. The genus Crematogasterobius Hustache and Bruch originally described in Curculioninae, Cryptorhynchini is transferred from Cossininae, Acamptini, back to Cryptorhynchini and is recorded for the first time from Mexico. A lectotype is designated for Menares pilicornis Champion and this genus and species are transferred from Curculioninae, Cryptorhynchini, to Cossoninae, Acamptini. Menares is distinguished from other Acamptini on the basis of toothed femora and a maculate elytral pattern.
4008637|Third instar larvae of Neoscutopterus hornii (Crotch) and N. angustus (LeConte), which typically inhabit boreal swamps, are described and compared with larvae of other Colymbetini. While Neoscutopterus larvae are so similar to those of Colymbetes, Rhantus, and Hoperius that they are immediately recognized as Colymbetini, many substantial differences readily separate them from these genera. Their deeply emarginate labium and lack of small basoventral spines on the tarsal claws separate them from sympatric Colymbetes and Rhantus and suggest that they may be more closely related to the southern genus Hoperius, which shares these features.
4009066|Five new species of Heteroceridae, Augyles repexus, A. cantus, A. modicus, A. uncis, and Heterocerus fulvipes from Nepal are described and illustrated and compared to three previously recorded species.
4008695|Chramesus varius Wood, Pseudothysanoes securigerus (Blackman), Coccotrypes robustus Eichhoff, C. vulgaris (Eggers), Theoborus solitariceps (Schedl), and Araptus dentifrons Wood are reported from the United States for the first time. Chaetophloeus insularis (Blackman), Scolytodes schwarzi (Hopkins), Xyleborus pubescens (Zimmermann), Pityoborus comatus (Zimmermann), Corthylus spinifer Schwarz, and Pityophthorus annectens LeConte are reported from the Bahamas for the first time. New state records from the United States are presented for species in Ambrosiodmus, Araptus, Carphoborus, Chaetophloeus, Chramesus, Cnesinus, Coccotrypes, Corthylus, Crypturgus, Dendrocranulus, Dryocoetes, Gnathotrichus, Hylastinus, Hylastes, Hylesinus, Hylocurus, Hylurgops, Hypothenemus, Ips, Lymantor, Monarthrum, Phloeotribus, Phloeosinus, Pityoborus, Pityogenes, Pityophthorus, Platypus, Pseudopityophthorus, Pseudothysanoes, Scolytus, Trischidias, Trypodendron, Xyleborus, and Xylosandrus.
4008268|The nomenclatural history and taxonomy of Morychus rutilans (Motschulsky), resurrected status, is briefly discussed. the Palearctic genus Byrrhobolus Fiori is newly synonymized with the Holarctic Morychus Erichson. Byrrhobolus nepalensis Paulus is transferred to Morychus as a new combination.
4008527|The "Winkler/Moczarski" eclector as an efficient extractor for fungus and litter beetles is discussed. It does not work on the same principle as "Berlese/Tullgren" funnels, as generally assumed. A procedure is described for processing soil samples in eclectors to obtain good results.
3999692| The life history of Anchytarsus bicolor (Melsheimer) in Qubec is described: the larvae are aquatic, feed on rotten wood, and require probably 3 years for full growth; 10 larval instars are estimated. Young larvae hatch in early August and overwinter a first time in instars II-III; the second year, they develop to instars VII-VIII and overwinter again; a third year is needed for most larvae to complete their growth, and these overwinter again before leaving the water in early June and pupating under debris along the stream banks. The adults emerge from late June to late July and are nocturnal; mating and ovipositing are thought to occur a few days after emergence. 
4008261|Newfoundland populations of Bembidion lampros Herbst (Carabidae), a recently introduced Palaearctic species, contain three wing phenotypes: two short-winged (brachypterous) and one long-winged (macropterous). Breeding studies showed that macropterous parents gave rise to macropterous progeny, brachypterous parents to brachypterous progeny, and mixed parents to mixed progeny. The results suggest that at least three alleles or two genes are involved in controlling wing length and there was no clear evidence of any of the wing length factors being dominant. No flight muscles were present in brachypterous individuals and only 5.9% of macropters possessed flight muscles. It was not determined whether flight muscle development was under ontogenetic or genetic control, but as there was no evidence of flight muscle autolysis, genetic control is likely. There was no difference in the number of mature eggs carried by macropterous and brachypterous females. The distribution of the wing phenotypes on the Avalon Peninsula showed a higher frequency of macropters in populations towards the northern and western limits of the range and a higher frequency of brachypters in populations towards the southern limits. However, the geographical pattern of wing morph frequency did not conform to the centrifugal pattern expected if the macropters were the principal dispersal agents in expanding the species range. B. lampros is univoltine in Newfoundland. Overwintering adults are sexually immature. In 1981, the first females with mature eggs were found on April 27. By June 2, all field collected females had laid eggs. The first teneral specimen was collected June 9 and by July 29 the entire population was composed of current year adults.
4009490|We investigated the influence of the hymenopteran parasitoid Perilitus sicheli Giard (Braconidae) on the pattern of mating and mate choice processes in the Chrysomelid beetle Timarcha maritima Perris. In the field, the prevalence of infection was higher in unpaired males and females than in paired individuals, although this result was significant only for males. The size of infected and uninfected individuals was not significantly different. The fecundity was significantly reduced by the infection in females. However, in experimental conditions males were unable to detect and to avoid infected females as sexual partners. We discuss the possible reasons for this absence of preference.
4008744|Arianops copelandi Carlton, new species, is based on specimens from Pinnacle Mountain, Pulaski County, Arkansas. It is the third of a monophyletic group of species that occur in the Ouachita Mountains and Arkoma Basin Highlands. This trio represents a basal lineage within the Arianops phylogeny that was isolated from the main Arianops lineage in the southern Appalachians during the late Cretaceous subsidence of the Mississippi Embayment. The apparent absence of Arianops species from the Ozark Mountains is interpreted as evidence for the pre-Jurassic isolation of the Ozark Uplift from the Ouachita Mountains by the Arkoma Basin.
3999780|Copulation, observed in 6 species of Passalidae, occurred with one beetle up-side-down in relation to the other. In Odontotaenius they were end to end (known for Coleoptera only in Scolytidae); in Passalus they were venter to venter facing nearly the same direction (known for no other beetles and only for certain Diptera and Mecoptera among other insects).
3999799|Ten new species of the genus Erichsonius (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae) are described and illustrated. Seven of the 8 previously-described species from North America are recognised as valid and 1, E. loxatus (Horn), is identical with E. patella (Horn). A key is provided to distinguish the adults. In the New World, the genus is known only from America north of Mexico.
4008021|Ochthebius (Asiobates) otavalensis Anderson, new species, is described from a small pool habitat in Otavalo, Imbaburra Province, in the interandean valley of northern Ecuador, at an elevation of 2,490 meters. O. otavalensis is the first member of the subgenus Asiobates Stephens to be reported from South America, and is the third Ochthebius species to be described for this continent. Illustrations of the aedeagus and adult habitus of O. otavalensis are presented. Illustrations of the aedeagus and head-pronotum of O. similis Sharp, the nearest relative of the new species, are redrawn from Perkins (1981) and included for comparison. O. otavalensis is interpolated into revised couplets for Perkins' key to the Western Hemisphere Ochthebius (1981, pp. 298-305).
4000175|Burrows excavated in the slopes of sand dunes by adult Cardiophorus cardisce (Say) in Canada are reported and described, apparently, for the first time.
4007879| Both larvae and adults of Phanerota fasciata Say live between gills of fresh mushrooms where they feed exclusively on the hymenium layer of gill surfaces. Eggs from specimens of Russula sp. were reared to adults. At eclosion, the larva straightens and lifts the anterior of the body, splitting the chorion at the head end. The larva crawls free, and the chorion collapses. At room temperature (22-24C) the active larval stage extended over an average of 3.2 days. Average duration of the first instar was 14.2 hours, the second 14.8 hours, and the third 48 hours. Pupation occurred in soil within a pupal cell of soil particles held together by a meshwork of fine fibrous material. Duration of the pupal stage was 8-12 days. Mating is initiated when the male bends the tip of his abdomen forward over his dorsum, extrudes the aedeagus, and makes contact with the tip of the female's abdomen. The life-cycle is coupled to characteristics of mushrooms as habitats. Mushrooms are ephemeral, unpredictable in time and space and chemically and physically heterogenous. The beetles respond to these characteristics by colonizing a mushroom soon after the pilus opens and by having very rapid larval development. When mushrooms are not available, adults probably remain semidormant within leaf litter or under logs. Specimens of P. fasciata are most common on members of the Russulaceae, especially Russula spp. However, numerous individuals have occasionally been found on Amanita spp., Amanitopsis sp., and Omphalotus olearius. Specimens of P. fasciata probably exhibit a range of host preferences rather than obligatory relationships to any single mushroom group. This type of host relationship may have evolved in response to the ephemeral and unpredictable nature of the mushroom habitat. The larvae and pupae are described and illustrations of habitus and structural features are provided. 
4008784|Psammodius relictillus is described from specimens taken from relict inland dunes in Florida. This blind and flightless species occurs in Florida scrub habitat on the southern Lake Wales Ridge and on the highly disjunct Atlantic Coastal Ridge. It lives in deep, well-drained sand, apparently aggregating around buried, dead, plant material, such as the buried middens of the harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex badius.
3999797|A new species, Serica humboldti, from Winnemucca, Nevada is described. The genitalia and other morphological details are illustrated, and affinities to previously described species are discussed.
4008495|Hippomelas (Gyascutus) jeanae, n. sp. is described from specimens collected primarily on Salix lasiandra and Populus fremontii in southern California. It is figured and compared with other species in the subgenus Gyascutus.
4008168|The apparently parthenogenetic Hawaiian weevil, Trachyphloeosoma advena Zimmerman, is reported from the continental United States for the first time. A key to the six U.S. genera of Trachyphloeini is presented. Illustrations of the female 8th sternite, spermatheca (and spermathecal gland), and foretibia are included.
4008116|When Chaudoir undertook study of Cymindis, it contained a strikingly divergent collection of forms--a "magazin," as Chaudoir called it, and a taxonomic dumping ground, as it would be called in common parlance today. The genus included those lebiines whose adults were brownish to reddish in color, of average proportions and average size for carabids, with labial palpi more or less securiform, and tarsomere 4 not deeply notched or markedly lobed. Chaudoir, in 1873, provided a nearly modern concept of Cymindis, by removing 35 species placed in 17 different genera. He also provided a useful classification of the newly defined Cymindis, and at that time and in 1875, described several additional genera, which he placed near Cymindis, and near the previously described Pinacodera Schaum and Apenes LeConte. Subsequent work has shown that some of these genera (including Apenes) require a group of their own (Apenina, new subtribe, type genus Apenes LeConte; included genus-group taxa are--Apenes sensu stricto, Malisus Motschulsky, Didymochaeta Chaudoir, Sphalera Chaudoir, Trymosternus Chaudoir, Cymindoidea Castelnau, and Platytarus Fairmaire); others (Anomotarus Chaudoir and Nototarus Chaudoir) belong with calleidines; Cymindis canigoulensis has been removed to its own genus, Pseudomasoreus Desbrochers de Loges; and Iscariotes Chaudoir and Psammoxenus Chaudoir are ranked as subgenera of Cymindis. These changes are based on features of male genitalia and ovipositor, organ systems not studied by Chaudoir. The Cyminides, as he conceived the group, was based on features that retrospectively seem to be plesiotypic in lebiines. In 1876, Chaudoir recognized an assemblage of carabids based on hypertrophy of the tibial spurs of middle and posterior legs, designated more recently as the Masoreimorphi or masoreimorph complex. Included by Chaudoir were: graphipterines (two genera); Corsyra Dejean; Nemotarsus LeConte; Sarothrocrepis Chaudoir; masoreids (seven genera-Masoreus, with four subgenera); and tetragonoderids (four genera). These genera were gathered together (or newly described) from among four tribes in the Lacordaire system, two of which were widely separated from the other two. Although Chaudoir recognized the similarity exhibited by the masoreimorph genera, he also indicated by his method of grouping that the assemblage was markedly divergent in features other than size of tibial spurs. Except for minor details, this arrangement reflects our current understanding. Within the more diverse genera, Chaudoir arranged the species according to shared character states, providing thus a useful classification as a basis for further work. It is not completely clear why Chaudoir arranged taxa in the sequences that he chose. For Cymindis, and for genera of masoreines and tetragonoderines (now Cyclosomini), it seems that he placed near the centre of a list that taxon (or those taxa) perceived as "typical" (nominotypical for masoreimorphs; used in a greater number of comparisons for Cymindis), and working out from these in opposite directions. Strikingly different or atypical taxa appeared in either first or last place: for Cymindis, C. canigoulensis, the first species listed; for masoreines, Ophryognathus last; for tetragonoderines, Cyclosomus first and Tilius last. Chaudoir recorded uncertainty about inclusion in the masoreimorphs of the last-named genus, and subsequently, P. Basilewsky removed it from this complex to the lionychines (or dromiines). This attempt at a linear arrangement may reflect a belief in a "scala naturae," or scale of nature, leading from less to more perfect. He did not comment about evolution, even though he lived at a time when Darwin's ideas were promulgated, and were known throughout Western Europe. Thus, it seems unlikely that Chaudoir was implicitly attempting to reflect phylogenetic relationships in his system. In summary, these studies show Chaudoir's ability as a classifier. For the cymindines, the dominant activity was identification and removal of discordant elements; for the masoreimorphs, the dominant activity was grouping of elements whose relationships had not been perceived previously.
4009207|Trichillum morellii, a new species of Scarabaeidae from Uruguay, is described and illustrated. A key to the subgenus Trichillum Harold is also provided. The study includes brief remarks about ecological preferences and daily activity.
4009992|In the 100 years since the last comprehensive faunistic treatment of California beetles, there have been many advances in knowledge of the region's Coleoptera diversity. The intervening years' published literature was scoured for additions at both species and higher taxonomic levels. Reviewed here are four families and 25 subfamilies that have been added to the fauna during this period. The state's species list has grown from 3,404 species in 1901 to over 7,300 today. These data establish a baseline for an incipient inventory of the region.
3999819|Stenelmis gammoni n. sp. is described from the New River System of North Carolina. It is a very small species (2.29-2.43 mm long) as compared with other Stenelmis and most closely resembles S. humerosa, from which it differs in being smaller, with distinctly bimaculate elytra and dark palpi.
4009436| A new species of Ptocadica Harold from Costa Rica and Panam is described. The adult and third instar larva are illustrated. Description of pupa and third instar larva are included. The ecological associations of this species with Passiflora L. vines and other flea beetles is discussed. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Ptocadica Harold de Costa Rica y Panam. Se presentan ilustraciones del adulto y del tercer estadio larval. Se describen la pupa y el tercer estadio larval. Se discuten las asociaciones ecolgicas de esta especie con especies de Passiflora L. y con otras especies de alticinos. 
4008462|Tyndaris (Paratyndaris) robusta, n. sp. from Michoacan, Mexico, is described, with a brief comment about its relationships.
4008312|A portable and convertible "Moczarski/Tullgren" extractor is described, illustrated, and compared with other Berlese apparatus used to extract arthropods from fungus and litter samples.
4000088|Lectotypes are designated for Psiloptera variabilis Mannerheim, Buprestis mannerheimii Mannerheim and Agrilus flavolineatus Mannerheim from the Universitetets Zoologiska Museum, Helsingfors, Finland.
3999952| A lectotype is designated for Neoxantholinus filarius (Erichson 1839). Gyrohypnus punctulatus (Paykull 1789) and G. fracticornis (Mller 1776) are considered as distinct species, and a short key to distinguish them is given; male aedoeagi, including internal sacs, of both species are illustrated; only G. fracticornis occurs in North America. Echinophallus Coiffait 1956 is placed in synonymy with Idiolinus Casey 1906, and Helicophallus Coiffait 1956 is placed in synonymy with Typhlolinus Reitter 1908. 
4007893| The genera of Rivalier (1963) and van Nidek (1973) for continental Australia are treated as subgenera of Cicindela Linn. Two new subgenera are proposed: Macfarlandia subgen. nov. (type species: Cicindela arachnoides sp. nov.) and Micromentignatha subgen. nov. (type species: Cicindela leai Sloane). C. (Macfarlandia) arachnoides sp. nov., from near Geraldton, Western Australia is described and figured. A key to the subgenera of Cicindela of Australia is presented as is a table of currently recognized species and subspecies. C. leai demarzi Mandl (new comb.) and C. rafflesia pseudorafflesia W. Horn (new comb.) are recalled from synonomy and recognized as valid subspecies. 
4009570| Four species are added to the genus Dilophochila Bates (Melolonthidae: Rutelinae: Anomalini). The new species are: D. brevisetosa new species from pine and oak forests near San Cristbal de las Casas, Chiapas, Mxico; D. gilli new species from pine forest at Cerro Uyuca, F. Morazn, Honduras; D. miahuatleca new species from oak and pine forests in the southern mountains of Oaxaca, Mxico; and D. zacapana new species from pine forest near San Lorenzo, Zacapa, Guatemala. These species are described, illustrated, and a key is presented for all six known species in the genus. /// Se agregan cuatro especies a las dos especies conocidas del gnero Dilophochila Bates (Melolonthidae: Rutelinae: Anomalini). Las especies nuevas son: D. brevisetosa de los bosques de pino y encino cercanos a San Cristbal de las Casas, Chiapas, Mxico; D. gilli recolectada sobre pinos en Cerro Uyuca, F. Morazn, Honduras; D. miahuatleca de los bosques de pino y encino de las montaas al sur de Oaxaca, Mxico; y D. zacapana encontrada sobre follaje de pinos en San Lorenzo, Zacapa, Guatemala. Se describen las especies nuevas, ilustrando varias de las estructuras diagnsticas, y se presenta una clave para separar las seis especies del gnero. 
4008323|New biological and/or distributional data are included for 104 species in the following genera of Buprestidae: Acmaeodera, Acmaeoderoides, Acmaeoderopsis, Agrilus, Anthaxia, Brachys, Buprestis, Chalcophora, Chrysobothris, Dicerca, Mastogenius, Melanophila, Pachyschelus, Paragrilus, Phaenops, Polycesta, Ptosima, Taphrocerus, Tyndaris, and Xenorhipis.
27571057|The tenebrionid genus Eschatomoxys Blaisdell is revised with descriptions of four new species, E. pholeter, E. paco, E. rosei, and E. andrewsi. Eschatomoxys wagneri Blaisdell, the type species, and E. tanneri Sorenson and Stones, are redescribed with illustrations and a key for the identification of all species. The biology of these rare beetles is discussed with emphasis on the cave dwelling species. The species have metapopulations fragmented among cave and island habitats.
4008472|The Anthonomus alboscutellatus group contains the Mexican and Central American A. alboscutellatus Champion and a new Brazilian species, A. acerolae Clark. These are relatively small (length 1.7-2.4 mm), black Anthonominae with sparse pronotal and elytral vestiture, 5 more or less distinct rostral carinae, well-developed postocular prothoracic lobes and widely separated mesocoxae. Both species are associated with plants in the family Malpighiaceae. Characters by which the two species are distinguished from each other are described and illustrated. The A. alboscutellatus group has been considered to be closely related to the subgenus Anthonomocyllus Dietz, mainly because the species in both groups have widely separated mesocoxae. Similarity in the number of rostral carinae and in the lateral rostral grooves and the association of species in both groups with the Malpighiaceae, however, are evidence that the A. alboscutellatus group may be more closely allied to the anthonomine genus Pseudanthonomus Dietz.
4008001|A fermented mixture produced by boiling the leaves, bark, and twigs of oak provided adequate nutrition for a laboratory colony of adult Arrhenodes minutus (Drury). Courtship was not evident. Sex determination by beetles was achieved by tactile means, possibly by detection of pheromones. Guarding of females by males is viewed as territorial behaviour which may have evolved to prevent harassment of females by other males and consequent reduction in egg deposition. The defence of hiding places by males against other males is also viewed as territorial behaviour. Males are highly aggressive toward each other, with dominance based on size and strength. This aggression takes the form of stereotyped combat, with no evidence of injury to opponents. Aggression was not observed in females, rarely between males and females. The primary defences of this species against predators consist of their heavily chitinized exoskeleton and the habit of falling and feigning death when disturbed. Ants probably compete with the brentids for sap flows. Oviposition takes place in holes drilled in shaded, exposed surfaces of trees (e.g., cut faces, wounds). Egg holes drilled in cut faces were almost always found in large diameter vessels of 'early wood,' presumably because less effort is required to widen them for oviposition than the smaller diameter vessels of 'late wood.' A grooming movement associated with the antennae is described as new for Coleoptera. The antennae of females were fluttered rapidly against the sides of the rostrum and mouthparts to dislodge wood particles caught there during the drilling of egg holes. A memory capacity has been observed in females; disturbed females were able to relocate abandoned egg holes as much as one hour later.
4008029| The following changes and new distribution records are made: PENTODONTINI: Endroedianibe Chalumeau is placed in junior synonymy with Indieraligus Dechambre; Ligyrus gyas (Er.) is listed for Costa Rica and Panama; Ligyrus maimon (Er.) is recorded from Chile for the first time; Bothynus horridus Endrdi is recorded as new to the Brazilian states of Par and Rondnia; Hylobothynus arnaudi Dechambre is recorded as new from Surinam. ORYCTINI: Strategus waldenfelsi Endrdi is transferred to Gibboryctes Endrdi; Gibboryctes porioni Dechambre is placed in junior synonymy with G. waldenfelsi; G. waldenfelsi is recorded for the first time from Panama, Brazil, and Peru; Strategus gracilis Endrdi and Strategus thomasi Endrdi are placed in junior synonymy with Strategus talpa (Fabr.); Heterogomphus niger Endrdi is placed in junior synonymy with Oryctes tarandus (Oliv.); Heterogomphus bicuspis Endrdi is listed as new to Colombia; Heterogomphus arrowi Prell is listed as new to Bolivia and distinguished from H. dilaticollis Burm. 
27571061|The impact of entomology on some of Charles Darwin's thought processes are demonstrated via direct quotations concerning leaf beetles (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) made by Darwin in his well documented correspondence from 1821 to 1967. Some aspects of chrysomelid natural history, especially the use of genitalia to separate species, contributed to his theories on speciation, sexual selection, and biogeography.
41316667|Anthrenus (s. str.) pulaskii Kadej, new species, is described from Riverside County, California, USA. The habitus, antennae, scales, and galea with lacinia are illustrated and compared with related species. A key to the Nearctic species of Anthrenus Geoffroy is presented.
4008252|Evidence is presented for considering Anthrenus thoracicus Melsheimer specifically distinct from Anthrenus scrophulariae (Linnaeus).
4008682|Biological and distributional data are presented for species in the buprestid genera Acmaeodera, Acmaeoderopsis, Agrilus, Chrysobothris, Chrysophana, Mastogenius and Tyndaris.
4009259|It is estimated that the range of Japanese beetle, Popillia japonica Newman, expanded from its point of introduction in New Jersey at an exponential rate during 1916-1926, at a constant rate of 7.7 km/yr during 1927-1938, and at a constant rate of 11.9 km/yr during 1939-1951. A modified Match Index generated by the computer program CLIMEX 4.3 is used to predict the potential distribution of the beetle to provide a logical rationale for the implementation of quarantine, monitoring and eradication measures. According to the model, in North America the beetle has the potential to spread west to the middle of Nebraska, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, south to the middle of South Carolina and Georgia and most of Mississippi and Alabama; it has already reached some of these limits. The southern parts of the Canadian Maritimes and eastern British Columbia and parts of Washington and Oregon also appear suitable. Most of continental Europe, except most of Scandinavia and the Mediterranean areas are suitable; the United Kingdom and Ireland are suitable. In Asia, the Caucasus and the area to the north, eastern central China and the Korean Peninsula, and in Africa the mountains of Morocco and coastal southeastern South Africa are also suitable. In the Southern Hemisphere, the southeastern highlands of Australia, Tasmania, New Zealand and the Rio de la Plata area between Argentina and Uruguay and parts of coastal Chile are suitable.
4000078|A study of the external anatomy of Osorius planifrons LeConte revealed that these animals posses several structural adaptations to fossorial life. These include a nearly cylindrical shape, shortened appendages, expanded digging tibiae, reduced tarsi, mandibles modified for digging and carrying sand grains, and setae around the mouth. The oral setae are apparently functional analogs to ammochaetae which occur on certain fossorial ants. We discuss the possible origins of these adaptations.
4008831| Seven species of New World Anthonomini are assigned to two apparently closely related species groups in the genus Anthonomus Germar, two in the A. alboannulatus group and five in the A. triensis group. Species in both groups are known to be associated with plants in the Order Myrtales (Combretaceae, Myrtaceae, Rhizophoraceae). Characters diagnostic of the groups and species are described and illustrated and keys to the species are presented. Previously undescribed species are A. whiteheadi (Costa Rica) in the A. alboannulatus group and all five species in the A. triensis group: A. triensis (Honduras, Mxico), A. tricopis (Jamaica), A. tripugionis (Venezuela), A. trisicifer [U.S.A. (Florida), Dominican Republic], and A. tricuspis (Dominican Republic). The names Anthonomus irroratus Dietz and Anthonomus tigrinus Suffrian are newly placed in synonymy under A. alboannulatus Boheman. Indications that the A. alboannulatus and A. triensis groups are sister groups and that the two together form the sister group of the genus Atractomerus Duponchel and Chevrolat are discussed. 
27571088|Thirty-three nests of Gromphas lacordairei Brull and Ontherus sulcator (Fabricius) were studied at Navarro, Buenos Aires, Argentina. Nests examined in the field and micromorphological studies of brood chambers demonstrate for the first time that G. lacordairei shows delayed provisioning, constructs nests with storage burrows, and makes brood masses with a discrete external wall of soil. These characters place G. lacordairei in Pattern II nesting behavior. Ontherus sulcator constructs either brood balls beneath dung pads by direct provisioning or only feeding burrows. The orientation and structure of the egg chamber is different from those of Ontherus mexicanus Harold.
3999749|Larvae of the tribe Epitragini are characterized by a slender, elongate body, enlarged forelegs and prothoracic sternellum, transversely ridged labrum armed with stout, blunt setae, and the presence of a tuft of stout, blunt setae set in a membranous basal patch on the dorsolateral surface of each mandible. These features are similar to those of known tentyriid larvae, especially members of the tribe Tentyriini.
4009630| The southern Neotropical cetoniine genus Neocorvicoana Ratcliffe and Mic new genus (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Cetoniinae: Gymnetini) is established for three species previously placed in Corvicoana Strand, 1934 (nomen nudum) and Gymnetis MacLeay, 1819: N. chalybea (Kirby), N. reticulata (Schrhoff), and N. tricolor (Schrhoff), new combinations. The type species of the new genus is N. reticulata (Kirby). Corvicoana rudolfi (Frlich) is transferred to the genus Gymnetis. Corvicoana suavis (Schrhoff) and C. castanea (Schrhoff) are junior synonyms of N. chalybea. We include a taxonomic key to the species, nomenclatural history, descriptions, illustrations, and commentary. /// Se establece el gnero Neocorvicoana Ratcliffe y Mic genero nuevo (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Cetoniinae: Gymnetini) para tres especies de Cetoninos del sur de la regin Neotropical, anteriormente incluidos en Corvicoana Strand, 1934 (nomen nudum) y Gymnetis MacLeay, 1819: N. chalybea (Kirby), N. reticulata (Schrhoff), y N. tricolor (Schrhoff), combinaciones nuevas. La especie tipo del nuevo gnero es N. reticulata (Kirby). Se transfiere Corvicoana rudolfi (Frlich) al gnero Gymnetis. Corvicoana suavis (Schrhoff) y C. castanea (Schrhoff) son sinnimos de N. chalybea. Se aporta una clave taxonmica de las especies, revisin histrica de la nomenclatura del grupo, ilustraciones y comentarios. 
4009276| Descriptions of structures of the 2nd and 3rd instars of Neonectes babai Sat are presented. The chaetotaxy and porotaxy of the cephalic capsule, head appendages, legs, last abdominal segment, and urogomphi are discussed in detail. The larvae of N. babai similar to those of N. natrix (Sharp) from which they are distinguished by several mensural and chaetotaxal characteristics. Both species are closely related phylogenetically to members of the Oreodytes scitulus species group as they share the presence of an additional pore on urogomphomere 1, an elongate urogomphus with urogomphomere 1 longer than urogomphomere 2, an elonagte secondary seta on dorsal margin of tibiae, and a short frontoclypeus. 
4000129|The Nearctic genus Lichnanthe Burmeister containing eight extant and one fossil species is revised. Six previously proposed names are considered valid and two are considered synonyms. Dasydera cooperi Horn, D. ursina LeConte, and Amphicoma defuncta Wickham are transferred to Lichnanthe for the first time. Three new species from California are described: albipilosa, apina, and brachyselis. All eight extant species are described in detail and a key to these species is included. Lectotypes are designated for Lichnanthe canina Horn, L. lupina LeConte, and Dasydera rathvoni LeConte.
4009964|A checklist is presented of the cerambycid (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) holdings of the Fernando de Zayas Collection, La Habana, Cuba. The size, importance, and condition of the collection are discussed.
4008004|A new species, Hydroporus veronicae of the vilis group, is described from California. The vilis group exhibits two kinds of aedeagi, bifid and simple, and the morphological differences between those that possess the latter and H. veronicae are discussed.
4008348| All type specimens of the genus Platandria Casey were studied, their genitalia dissected and mounted in Canada balsam and illustrated for the first time. Of the seven described species, four are here recognized as valid: P. carolinae Casey, P. columbica Casey, P. mormonica Casey and P. neotropica Bierig. Platandria truncula Casey is newly synonymized with P. carolinae Casey, P. deductor Casey is transferred to the genus Oxypoda Mannerheim and P. knausi Casey is confirmed as synonymous with P. mormonica Casey. The genus and all currently recognized species are redescribed. A key to species is presented for the first time. /// Les auteurs ont tudi le matriel-type du genre Platandria Casey. Les gnitalia sont dissques et montes dans le baume du Canada, et sont ici illustres pour la premire fois. Des sept espces dcrites antrieurement, quatre seulement demeurent valides; ce sont P. carolinae Casey, P. columbica Casey, P. mormonica Casey et P. neotropica Bierig. L'espce P. truncula Casey devient synonyme P. carolinae Casey. On confirme la mise en synonymie de P. knausi Casey sous P. mormonica Casey. En outre, P. deductor Casey appartient maintenant au genre Oxypoda Mannerheim. Les auteurs donnent une description nouvelle du genre et des espces qui s'y rattachent. On fournit galement pour la premire fois un tableau de dtermination de ces espces. 
4009506| A new genus and new species of Lachnophorini and 2 new species of Lebiini from Costa Rican are described (type localities in parentheses): Quammenis spectabilis, n. gen., n. sp. (type locality: COSTA RICA: Heredia Province, Estacon Magsasay, Parque Nacional Braulio Carrillo, 200m, LN264600,531100); Lebia (Chelonodema) inbio, n. sp. (type locality: Guanacaste Province, Estacon Pitilla, 9 km S Santa Cecilia, 700 m, LN329950,380450 #4355); Agra yola, n. sp. (type locality: Guanacaste Province, Estacon Pitilla, 9 km S Santa Cecilia, 700 m, LN329650,378600 #4600). 
4000130|The introduced lady beetle predator, Coccinella septempunctata L., is recorded from new locations in New York State and Pennsylvania in 1979. An existing key to North American species of Coccinella is revised to include septempunctata. The current distribution of C. septempunctata in the eastern United States is depicted on a map.
4008869| Antitrogus mussoni (Blackburn) occurs in central western New South Wales and is a senior synonym of A. dubitans (Blackburn). The species previously considered A. mussoni and attacking sugarcane in coastal southeastern Queensland and northeastern New South Wales are A. consanguineus (Blackburn) and A. rugulosus (Blackburn). A. consanguineus occurs north from the Gympie area (26.4S) to the Bundaberg area (24.5S) and A. rugulosus occurs south from the Gympie area to northern New South Wales. 
4007890|A taxonomic revision of the New Guinean genus Caledonomorpha is presented. The genus is redefined to include C. papuana, new species. Descriptions of the three recognized species and a key are provided. Generic and specific relationships are discussed.
4008939|Species lists are compiled for Coleoptera occurring as fossils at 13 sites in the north-central United States. These fossil assemblages, ranging in age from 27,900 to 11,700 yr B.P., provide a nearly complete chronologic record of coleopteran faunal transition in response to climate change and ice movement during the late Wisconsinan glaciation. As glaciation progressed, beetle faunas characteristic of closed spruce forest were replaced by those representative of tundra and forest-tundra. By 14,000 yr B.P., populations of arctic and subarctic beetles had been extirpated by climatic warming throughout the north-central United States and, as ice retreated, replaced by open-ground faunas of taiga and western-montane affinities. The impact of Wisconsinan glaciation is still evident in the modern ranges of many northern beetle species. Consequent patterns of modern distribution are defined and applied in analyses of the relationships of the beetle fauna of northern North America to the late Wisconsinan fossil record in the north-central United States.
4009947|The first known fossil species of Trypanaeus Eschscholtz (Histeridae: Trypanaeinae), Trypanaeus hispaniolus, new species, is described and figured from the remains of two females preserved in Early Miocene (Burdigalian) Dominican amber. The fossil history of Histeridae along with the higher-level classification of the subfamily Trypanaeinae is briefly discussed. An addition to the existing key to species of the genus is provided in order to accommodate the new fossil species described herein.
3999412|Paracotalpa deserta Saylor is a rare species found in the Colorado Desert region of California and Baja California, Mexico. Specimens were collected in an area of Larrea and Franseria, and many were impaled on spines of the latter, possibly by shrikes. Known distributional data is summarized.
4000056|Trixagus cobosi n. sp. is described from Panama. A key for separating this species from other American species is presented. T. cobosi is most similar to the North American T. carinicollis and T. chevrolati.
4009238|The relationship between diverse morphometric and ecological variables are studied in a neotropical community of Passalidae. Species which exploit log underbark exhibit a body of less relative thickness and less relative width than those that inhabit sapwood/heartwood. It is possible that the former species are more generalist in their use of resources because they present larger populations and exploit a greater number of tree species; furthermore, their seasonal niche is wider and the strategies they employ are different. The authors consider that the occupation of two structurally and materially different parts of the same host could mark the most important ecological segregation for these insects, which likely appear quickly in the evolutionary history of Passalidae.
3999447|This paper summarizes the current knowledge of nearly 200 families of beetle larvae; indicates known illustrations, descriptions, and keys for each; and presents a selected list of 183 references. Page and figure references are provided for 7 recent, comprehensive, and readily available publications.
4008204|The male and female genitalia of Donacia subtilis Kunze and D. fulgens LeConte are described and illustrated. On the basis of the genital structures, D. fulgens is considered to be a good species, distinct from D. subtilis.
4009439|Literature records on dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) unharmed by army ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Dorylinae) in Africa are compiled and supplemented by own observations from the Ivory Coast. Possible mechanisms of this coexistence are discussed.
4000015|The methods pioneered by Steyskal and White for using trend curves of rates of species descriptions to estimate the total number of extant species in a particular group are reviewed and the most important weaknesses of their methods are discussed in some detail. Trend curves for the Curculionidae for the various biogeographic regions and a cumulative curve for the world are compared. Estimates for the total number of species to be expected are made with each curve and are shown to be invalid. In addition, graphs based on increments of described species by decades are presented for the same regions and the world and these also are analyzed. The results of a statistical approach using a cubic regression program are tabulated. These are shown to be no better than those arrived at through the use of the trend curves. Both estimates (ca. 45,000 to 55,000 species) are demonstrated to be low and are contrasted with the estimate suggested by us (85,000 species) based on our combined
3999932|A new species, Tribolium setosum, is described from Arizona. Characteristics which distinguish it from similar species are presented.
41314183|Previous carrion studies have described the disruptive behaviors of the invasive hairy maggot blow fly, Chrysomya ruflfacies (Macquart), towards predatory necrophilous beetles such as the hairy rove beetle, Creophilus maxillosus (L.).Such studies stated that C. rufifacies larvae repelled native blow fly larvae, predaceous beetles, and ants away from vertebrate carcasses. Our main research objective was to test the predatory behaviors and feeding patterns of C. maxillosus adults towards two blow fly species, C. rufifacies (invasive species) and the secondary screwworm, Cochliomyia macellaria (F.) (native species), in a laboratory setting. Starved C. maxillosus were placed into individual 0.47-L clear plastic cups, provided one third instar blow fly, and observed continuously for two hours. Predatory and feeding responses were recorded as: 1) alive, not eaten; 2) killed, not eaten; 3) killed, consumed partially; or 4) killed, consumed entirely. In total, 342 observations were performed, including 191 and 151 replicates of one beetle and one larva of C. rufifacies or macellaria, respectively. Chi-square test of independence was highly significant (P < 0.0001) for both analyses, and the likelihood of C. maxillosus ' killing and not eating' a fly larva versus ' killing and eating' the prey was highly significant per fly species (P < 0.0001). Additional observations on predatory and defensive behaviors, handling and feeding patterns, and beetle fecundity are discussed.
4009613|Six new species of Euscelus Schoenherr from Central America are described, illustrated and mapped: E. oaxacensis new species, E. stockwelli new species, E. similis new species, E. spinosus new species, E. bivittatus new species, and E. maculicollis new species. These new species and new records for E. submaculatus Voss and E. vittaticollis Voss, previously known only from South America, brings the total number of euscelines in Central America to 22. Male genitalia, including unique endophallic structures, are illustrated for each new species. A key based on external characters is provided to separate the new species from all known Central American euscelines.
3999627|The genus Dromanomma is redescribed and illustrated for the first time. The only previously known species, D. hirtum, is redescribed and 2 new species, D. kuehnei (Zambia) and D. setosa (Ghana), are described. The behavior of D. kuehnei is described, morphological details of the setae are shown, and the results of a gland survey are given. The genus Dromanomma is interpreted as a persecuted but integrated myrmecophile which relies on its shape, its eye-sight, tactile cues from specialized setae, thick exoskeleton, and defense glands for its success in exploiting the driver ant colony, probably as a brood predator.
4008192|Two new species, Plectromerus wappesi and Erosida yucatana, from the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico are described and figured. Both genera are previously unrecorded from Mexico. Pentomacrus White is placed as a junior synonym of Plectromerus Haldeman, which is redefined.
4010008|Apphianus yuccae, new genus and new species in the tribe Attagenini, subfamily Anthreninae, family Dermestidae is described from a Mojave Desert canyon on the eastern edge of the Sierra Nevada in Kern Co, California.
4543003|Biological and distributional observations are presented for 166 species/subspecies of North American Cerambycidae representing 100 genera/subgenera in four subfamilies. New or confirmed records include 245 larval hosts, 39 distributions, 66 flower hosts, and 18 adult hosts. The male of Gaurotes thoracica (Haldeman) is described, the holotype deposition of Purpuricenus linsleyi Chemsak is clarified, and comments or corrections to previous literature records for several species are made.
4008885|Phrixia luzonica and Belionota luzonica are described as new species from Luzon, Philippines. Both are illustrated in comparison to apparently related taxa and world checklists are presented for both genera.
4009512|Two new Mexican species of aphodiine Scarabaeidae are described: Ataenius paraperforatus new species (Eupariini), based on specimens of both sexes collected in mesophilous cloud-forest of Xilitla, Queretaro State, Jacala, Hidalgo State, and Totutla, State of Veracruz; and Cephalocyclus stebnickae new species (Aphodiini), based on two male specimens captured in a Pinus-Quercus forest near Teopisca, Chiapas State. Ataenius paraperforatus is compared to A. perforatus Harold. Important taxonomic characteristics of both Ataenius as well of the new Cephalocyclus are illustrated. A key for the identification of the seven known species of Cephalocyclus and comments on the species distribution in Mexico is additionally presented.
4008002|A referenced list of the host plants of the ambrosia beetle Xylosandrus germanus (Blandford) is presented.
4008937|The chrysomelid beetle, Trirhabda bacharidis (Weber), was studied as a biological control agent for Baccharis halimifolia L. in Australia. Trirhabda bacharidis was usually univoltine. Larvae appeared in late winter-early summer, adults approximately two months later, and eggs then remained dormant until their eclosion at the end of winter. Natural hosts for the insect include B. halimifolia and B. neglecta Britton. Host specificity tests using 64 economically important plant species showed that both larvae and adults fed exclusively on Baccharis foliage and that the insect was safe to import into Australia. Trirhabda bacharidis was released in Australia in 1969 and established at a number of sites in southeastern Queensland. It showed poor dispersal powers and over the next 15 years was dispersed artificially. It eventually established on only a small proportion of the weed's range. In localized areas it caused severe defoliation. The insect changed its phenology in Australia, where larvae emerge in autumn and pupae overwinter. This change may have contributed to the failure to establish in many areas.
4007917|Chromosome numbers and sex mechanisms are tabulated for 73 species of Indian weevils. Chromosome numbers in the Curculionidae Adelognathi, here combined in the subfamily Otiorhynchinae, are nearly constant (ln=11). Among 9 subfamilies of the Curculionidae Phanerognathi the haploid number is much more varied, ranging from 8 to 19, and is inconstant even within subfamilies.
4009519|Mimonneticus, new genus, type species M. guianae, new species; and Exallancyla, new genus, type species E. tuberculicollis (Aurivillius), new combination; are described from South America. Ancylocerina Thomson is redescribed and a key for the South American genera is added.
4007909|Agabus apache n. sp. is described from the Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona, U.S.A. Diagnostic characters are given to separate it from Agabus spinipes Sharp. This name replaces Agabus spinipes Sharp of Fall's 1922 revision of Agabus.
4008548|The background of the Pontificio Istituto Missioni Estere (PIME) Entomological Museum in Italy and the United States is reviewed. The recent sale and dissemination of the Second PIME Entomological Museum (primarily Coleoptera) to several institutions and private collections is detailed. This includes a collection summary of the number of specimens in each beetle family (subfamilies for Chrysomelidae) from each biogeographical region and the same for the few non-Coleoptera orders. All primary and secondary types from the First and the Second PIME Entomological Museum are listed, and the general tally and destinations of the beetle families purchased by various institutional and private collections are given. The Second PIME Entomological Museum contained approximately 230,000 specimens of which almost 85,000 were Chrysomelidae.
41314172|"Cyclocephala nigricollis" Burmeister is a relatively common species in some parts of the southern United States, with disjunct populations in Virginia and the Carolinas in the eastern United States. After examination of specimens and the literature, we conclude that nigricollis is a nomen dubium and that its neotype was invalidly proposed. Accordingly, Cyclocephala robusta LeConte, as the next available name, is the correct designation for this taxon.
4000075|The world genera and species of Derodontidae are reviewed, and keys are provided to genera (based on larvae and adults), to the species of Nothoderodontus, and to the North American species of Derodontus and Laricobius. Discussions are presented on the adult and larval morphology, habitat and food habits, life cycle patterns and phylogenetic relationships of the family. A family diagnosis is presented and two possible generic cladograms are proposed. A special section is included on the surface features associated with cuticular secretions in beetles as a whole, as well as in derodontids. The following new taxa are described: Derodontus esotericus Lawrence, D. unidentatus Lawrence, Nothoderodontus chilensis Lawrence, and N. dentatus Lawrence.
27571068|New distribution records for Cerambycidae are presented for the Bahamas and for Andros Island specifically. Recent collecting has added 22 species to the fauna of Andros Island, increasing the total from 35 species to 57, and increasing the number of species in the Bahamas as a whole from 63 to 75.
27571063|One new genus and two new species are described from central West Africa: Camerunadora bifasciata, new genus & new species from the Republic of Cameroon and Holubia gabonica, new species from Gabon are described and illustrated.
4009087|A new genus of neotropical Rhizophagidae, Crowsonius, contains two new species, Crowsonius meliponae and C. similis, known from Costa Rica and Brazil respectively. Both species have been collected from Trigona nests. These beetles are wingless with extremely reduced eyes suggesting they are true melittophiles rather than accidental associates. The genus and its species are described and useful taxonomic structures are illustrated. A review of the biology of Rhizophagidae is included.
3999835|Caverneleodes, a new subgenus of Eleodes is described to include 3 cave-inhabiting species: E. easterlai and E. labialis from Texas and E. leptoscelis from Arizona, all of which are described as new.
4008445|The taxonomic and nomenclatural history of the genus Hemipeplus Latreille is reviewed. The correct date for the authorship of the genus name is established as 1829; H. hemipterus Lacordaire predates Nemicelus marginipennis LeConte by two years and is the type species of Hemipeplus Latreille by subsequent monotypy. Nemicelus marginipennis LeConte is the type species by monotypy of Nemicelus LeConte, a synonym of Hemipeplus Latreille. Three species are recorded from Florida: H. marginipennis (LeConte), H. microphthalmus (Schwarz), and H. chaos Thomas, n. sp., which is described. Diagnoses, illustrations and an identification key are provided. Hemipeplus marginipennis is recorded for the first time from the Bahamas; H. microphthalmus is recorded for the first time from Texas, South Carolina, and Mississippi.
3999755|Asklepia ocellata, sp. n. (type-locality, Brazil, Amazonas, Tapuruquara), is described and compared to Asklepia strandi Liebke, 1938, the only species formerly known in the genus. The systematic position of the genus is discussed together with the structure of the tribe Lachnophorini of Carabidae.
3999691|The larva of Sphalma quadricollis Horn has been collected from black cottonwood logs in East-central California, and determined from reared adults. It is described and illustrated. The presence of well developed mandibular molar areas and the structure of the preanal series of asperities preclude the placement of Sphalma within the Melandryidae, where it has resided for some time. Salient anatomical features of the larvae (head, legs, and urogomphal plate) and adult males (mouthparts and genitalia) indicate a close relationship between Sphalma and known genera of the salpingid tribe Pythini, thus Sphalma is returned to the Salpingidae (Pythini).
4009317|The genus Apolopha Spinola is redefined to include five species: A. reichei Spinola the type species, A. nitida (Gorham), A. suturalis (Klug), A. fryana (Gorham), and A. eucharis, new species. The nominal species Pelonium apicicorne Chevrolat and Ichnea vitticollis Gorham are considered new junior synonyms of A. reichei Spinola. Apolopha fronticosta (Kuwert) is placed in synonymy with A. suturalis (Klug). A neotype is selected for A. reichei Spinola. Lectotypes are selected for A. fryana (Gorham), A. suturalis (Klug), and A. nitida (Gorham). The distinctive carina on the frons of the cranium is the most outstanding diagnostic characteristic of the members of the genus. This revision includes a description of the genus, and a key and descriptions of the species. A hypothesis of intrageneric evolution is also provided.
4008040|Lectotypes are designated for Agonum cyanope (Bates) and Agonum megillum (Bates). Lectotypes are held in the British Museum (Natural History).
4009243|Sumitrosis lateritia (Smith) is redescribed, transferred to Platocthispa Uhmann as Platocthispa lateritia (Smith), new combination, and a neotype is designated for the species. A key to the genera of Hispinae known from America north of Mexico is presented.
4008376|Dead whirligig beetles are propelled across the water surface at a velocity of up to 6 cm/s. This movement is due to the passive secretion of the pygidial gland substance, which contains a surface-active component. This finding suggests that live beetles may use this secretion to help propel themselves across the water.
4008953| Soronia grisea (Linn, 1758), a European species of the tribe Nitidulini, is recorded as established in Newfoundland. A description of the North American population and the key characteristics to separate it from the native North American species S. guttulata (LeConte), are provided. 
3999517|Flight behavior of Cybister f. fimbriolatus (Say) is described for specimens from Florida. It is suggested that such flights are prerequisite for mating and this is an adaptive mechanism for extending the range of the species.
3999450|The external development of the mesosternum and prosternal process is described and figured, providing useful characters for defining genera. An additional character, an area of the metasternum known as the axillary space, is also discussed and figured. As a result, Psilopyga Lec. is separated from Oxycnemus Er. and reinstated. Also Epuraea liebecki Pars. is redescribed and transferred to Amphicrossus. A key is presented for New World Amphicrossus.
4009233|The genus Thryallis Thomson in the lamiine tribe Anisocerini is reviewed. Descriptions of the genus and species are provided along with a key for determination of species. Seven species are recognized, two previously undescribed: T. sallaei Bates, Mexico; T. leucophaeus (White), Mexico to Costa Rica; T. undatus (Chevrolat), Texas to Guatemala; T. noguerai, new species, Mexico; T. granulosus Bates, Guatemala; T. maculosus Thomson, Mexico to Honduras, and T. ocellatus, new species, Costa Rica. All species are illustrated and one distribution map is included.
4009707|The North American monotomid fauna, north of Mexico, includes two described species of the genus Leptipsius Casey, 1916, L. striatus (LeConte, 1858) and l. dilutus Casey, 1916. Adults of L. striatus are redescribed and comments are provided on L. dilutus. A new species, L. imberbis, is described from specimens collected in New Mexico and Arizona. Based on a study of syntypes, the following species, previously included in the genus Bactridium, are transferred to the genus Leptipsius: L. brevicornis (Sharp, 1900), L. crassus (Sharp, 1900), and L. eumorphus (Sharp, 1900) [new combinations].
3999605|North American records for the Old World Helophorus brevipalpis Bedel are confirmed by 16 female specimens from Logan Canyon, Utah.
4000043|The "tumble bug," Deltochilum gibbosum gibbosum (F.), found for the first time in Illinois, was collected in linear pitfall traps containing ethylene glycol. Collection dates and sex ratios are given.
4009344| Phyllophaga (Phytalus) triticophaga, a new species of Melolonthidae, is described from wheat and other grain crops of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. It is included in the "pruinosa" species group and differences with Phyllophaga bahiana Saylor, P. laminata (Moser), P. arrowi Saylor and P. propinqua (Moser) are outlined. Third-stage larva of P. triticophaga is also described and diagnostic structures are illustrated. /// Se describe Phyllophaga (Phytalus) triticophaga, especie nueva, con base en 107 ejemplares adultos recolectados en un regin agrcola de Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil. Se le incluye en el grupo de especies "pruinosa," y se le compara con Phyllophaga bahiana, Ph. laminata, Ph. arrowi y Ph. propinqua. Adems, se describe la larva de tercer estadio de Ph. triticophaga con base en 23 ejemplares recolectados bajo las races de trigo en la misma regin, donde causan severos daos en tales cultivos. 
4000023|Two new species of the curculionid genus Sibinia from Panama, S. stockwelli and S. guaymi, are described. The former may have Inga edulis Mart. as host; the host of the latter is unknown. Sibinia altensis Clark and S. peruana Pierce are reported for the first time from Panama. Distinguishing characters of S. altensis, previously known only from the male holotype from Guatemala, are also given. Relationships of the new species and their position in a previously proposed phylogeny of the genus Sibinia are discussed.
3999512|The Podistra group of the Cantharini in North America now consists of 3 species, 2 of which were previously listed under Cantharis, and the third is described here as new: Podistra (Hemipodistra) insipida (Fall), NEW COMBINATION for Cantharis (Absidia) insipida (Fall); Pseudoabsidia sierrae (McKey-Fender), NEW COMBINATION for Cantharis sierrae McKey-Fender; and Pseudoabsidia sanbernardensis Fender, NEW SPECIES, from Lake Arrowhead, California.
4008233|Prionochaeta opaca (Say) (Leiodidae), Aglenus brunneus (Gyllenhal) (Othniidae), Echochara lucifuga Casey (Staphylinidae) and a species of Atheta Thomson (Staphylinidae) are the most common beetles in Bat Cave, Kentucky, a major hibernaculum for the Indiana Bat, Myotis sodalis. The intra-cave distribution of these species was studied in relation to their relative proximities to deposits of bat guano or streambank detritus, the main food sources in the cave. All P. opaca and A. brunneus occurred near summer guano beds. Most E. lucifuga occurred near summer and winter guano beds. Atheta sp. occurred primarily near winter guano beds or streambank detritus deposits. These data demonstrate that the guanobic habitat is more important than the xylophagous one for the more common troglophilic beetles in Bat Cave.
3999958|Previously unrecorded larval hosts, seasonal occurrences, distributional records, and other ecological data are presented for 28 species of Texas Cerambycidae. Aneflus prolixus insoletus Chemsak & Linsley is recorded from the United States for the first time. Parandra b. brunnea (Fabricius), Methia pusilla (Newman), and Psyrassa pertenuis (Casey) are recorded from Texas for the first time. First larval hosts are reported for Methia constricticollis Schaeffer, Piezocera serraticollis Linell, and Cathetopteron amoena Hamilton.
4000121|The adult and larva of a new species of an aquatic beetle, Ytu brutus, belonging to the family Torridincolidae [from Mato Grosso, Brazil], are described and illustrated; also, a note on its habitat is included. The adult is interpolated into a key to species given in the latest revision of the genus and a checklist of the 26 species of Torridincolidae described in the world fauna is included. Also, a stalked ectoparasitic peritrich protozoan occurring on this new beetle is discussed and illustrated.
4009667|Aegialia (Silluvia) kabaki Frolov, new species, from China (Sichuan Province) is described. It can be separated from other described species of the subgenus Silluvia by the serrate margins of the pronotum and the presence of the long setae on the margins and apices of the elytra.
4009871| Two new species of Epuraea (Orthopeplus) are described from central and southern Mexico and E. (O.) quadricollis (Horn) is redescribed. Epuraea (O.) setosa new species is described from the Mexican highlands near Durango and Cerro Potosi, and E. (O.) plenasulca new species is described from the Capitol City (District Federal) and the Michoacan District. Both new species are compared to Epuraea (Orthopeplus) quadricollis (Horn), and a key is provided for all three species. /// Dos nuevas especies de Epuraea (Orthopeplus) son descritas provenientes del centro y sur de Mexico y E. (O.) quadricollis (Horn) se redescribe. Epuraea (O.) setosa, nueva especie se describe de los altiplanos mexicanos cerca de Durango y Cerro Potosi, y E. (O.) plenasulca, nueva especie se describe la ciudad capitol (Distrito Federal) y del Distrito Michoacan. Ambas especies son comparadas con Epuraea (Orthopeplus) quadricollis (Horn), y una clave es proveda para las tres especies. 
4009774| The species composition and abundance of coprophilous predatory Staphylinidae in two sites of temperate and subtropical Argentina are presented and discussed in terms of their hypothetical effect on the dung breeding fly community. Specimens of Staphylinidae were collected from cow manure by flotation. Dung breeding fly puparia were also collected to obtain parasitoidal Staphylinidae. Roughly the same number of species, and the same species of common staphylinids were found in both sites. Also, the dominant species were almost the same: Philonthus pauxillus Solsky, P. flavolimbatus Erichson, and Aleochara verberans Erichson. However, Philonthus sp. 1, and Aleochara notula Erichson were very abundant in Buenos Aires, but rare in Tucumn, and Philonthus nv. sp., was common in Tucumn but not found in Buenos Aires. Of the parasitoid species in the genus Aleochara Gravenhorst, A. notula was recovered from Oxysarcodexia varia (Walker), Sarcophagula occidua (F.), and Palaeosepsis discolor (Bigot) (Sepsidae). A. verberans from O. varia, Oxysarcophaga aurifinis (Walker), and Ravinia sueta (Wulp). A. puberula from O. varia, and A. bimaculata from O. aurifinis. All the hosts, except P. discolor, were in the family Sarcophagidae. Specimens of Philonthus Stephens were the most abundant predatory rove beetles, and field and laboratory data suggest they are the group of predators that most affect the community of dung breeding flies. The necessity for the release of exotic predatory Staphylinidae in Argentina is discussed. 
4000158|Adults of the rare beetle Chelonarium lecontei Thomson were collected at the same locality in Arkansas in 3 consecutive years. All specimens examined were males. Captured beetles survived as long as 1 month in the laboratory. Characteristically, they exhibited an unusual righting behavior, utilizing the genitalia.
4008232|The collection of adult and larval specimens of Priobium carpini (Herbst) shows that the species is established in North America at Baltimore, MD.
3999922|Three species of Staphylinidae are known as fossils from Late Pleistocene asphalt deposits in California: 1 species of Aleochara from the Carpinteria asphalt deposit in Santa Barbara County and 2 species of Philonthus from the McKittrick asphalt deposit in Kern County. No Staphylinid fragments identifiable to genus have yet been recovered from the Rancho La Brea asphalt deposit in Los Angeles County.
4008488|Evidence is presented for making the following changes in subfamily or generic placement among flattened, subcortical Staphylinidae: Cephaloxynum is transferred from Holisina (Staphylininae: Staphylinini) to Homalotina (Aleocharinae: Bolitocharini); Hypotelus capito (Piestinae) is transferred to Cephaloxynum; Holisomimus is transferred from Xanthopygina (Staphylininae) to Homalotina (Aleocharinae: Bolitocharini); Holisus is confirmed as the sole genus of Holisina (Staphylininae: Staphylinini); Holisus africanus is transferred to Medon (Paederinae); and Holisus philippinus of Scheerpeltz is deleted as a catalog error for Holosus philippinus (Osoriinae). The Cuban species Cephaloxynum rambouseki is recorded from Florida; this and C. capito from Texas provide the first records of Cephaloxynum from the United States. A checklist of described and examined species of Cephaloxynum, Holisomimus, and Holisus is appended.
40389441|All available information, both published and unpublished, on the nesting behavior of Trichillum Harold and other Scatimina with fused abdominal sternites, including laboratory breeding results for Trichillum, is presented. These genera exhibit none of the behavioral traits that are characteristic of the Scarabaeinae. In fact, their resource utilization is the simplest known to date for this subfamily, and is similar to that of the majority of the Aphodiini (Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae). We discuss whether these genera exhibit an ancestral nesting behavior, or have lost nesting behavior. The phylogenetic relationships of these taxa should be the clue to understanding if the behavior analyzed here is a primitive or a derived one, and all evidence points to a loss of the original nesting behavior.
4009045|Geotrupes pinalonensis, new species, from Cerro El Pinalon in the Sierra de las Minas range in Guatemala is described and illustrated. The species belongs in the subgenus Cnemotrupes Jekel and has the most southern range of any species in the subgenus.
3999846|Thysanocnemis LeConte is placed in synonymy with Lignyodes Dejean, and L. slovacicus Dieckmann is placed in synonymy with L. bischoffi (Blatchley). The monobasic genus Rosella and its type-species R. sickingiae (Costa Rica and Guyana, in fruits of Sickingia maxonii Standley, Rubiaceae) are described by Whitehead as new. The subfamily Tychiinae is classified as 4 tribes: Tychiini, Lignyodini, Endaeini, and Elleschini. Lignyodine genera are keyed and illustrated. Neotylopterus graphicus (Casey) and N. yavapaiensis (Sleeper) are new combinations, transferred from Thysanocnemis.
4010059|Much has been stated in journals and at roundtable discussions, conferences, and on the Internet about the taxonomic impediment, the Phylocode, and DNA barcoding. But community responses about these topics are lacking apart from position papers. We developed a simple easy-to-answer survey regarding these issues and submitted it to contributors to the Catalogue of Palaearctic Coleoptera. We also asked for demographic information (age, sex), and data about their productivity. The survey was sent to 154 expert coleopterists, mainly in Europe, and we obtained 103 responses. Over 60% of the respondents have PhD's, over 60% are professionals, and over 70% are currently active. Although most of the respondents are traditional taxonomists, 28% participate in molecular research and 78% regard DNA work as potentially useful. Nevertheless, 35% of the respondents regard DNA barcoding as useless (23% consider it useful and 39% have no opinion) and 50% regard the Phylocode also useless (40% have no opinion and 8% find it useful). Based on survey results, a large portion of practicing beetle taxonomists are not influenced by bar-coding and phylocode initiatives, either by ignorance or by having strong opposition. The adoption of new character systems, like molecules, is favored and demonstrates a real interest and concern by taxonomists to find answers to meaningful biological problems.
4000046|In 1979 the locust leafminer, Odontota dorsalis (Chrysomelidae: Hispinae), was a widespread but not highly injurious insect on Japanese pagodatree, Sophora japonica, in Pennsylvania nurseries and landscape plantings. Two generations were completed on host trees; the larvae mined leaflets and the adults fed on the upper epidermis. Populations also were found on the same host at Ithaca, N.Y. and Washington, D.C.
4008424| Two new species, Anthaxomorphus (Bolivarina) paracoeruleus and A. (B.) roseocupreus, from southern Africa are described and illustrated. Junior synonymy is proposed for A. capeneri Cobos under A. turneri Thry based on examination of types and more recently collected material. Anthaxomorphus papuanus Deyrolle is designated as the type-species of the genus. A checklist of the described species is presented. The new species and distinguishing characters are illustrated. 
4009627|Under laboratory conditions, we tested the effects of parental presence and parental manipulation of the food resource on larval development and offspring survival in Nicrophorus mexicanus Matthews. The three study groups were (1) control, with parental care (brood mass present and feeding of larvae by trophallaxis); (2) brood mass present but parents removed; and (3) without parental care (brood mass not present and parents removed). Duration of larval development from stage L1 to the end of stage L3 was significantly different among the three groups. The number of adults emerging also was different among the groups. Parental presence and manipulation of the brood mass were required for larvae to reach adulthood. In contrast, when both parents and brood mass were absent, few juveniles reached adulthood.
3999393|Silphidae attraction to two kinds of carrion-baited traps was studied in Hutcheson Memorial Forest, East Millstone, New Jersey. Four cans, suspended in the air, and four cans, buried with the open ends flush with the surface of the soil, were individually baited with a fresh chicken leg. Five collections were made during August 1964, and eight collections were made during July and August 1965. Of six species of Silphidae collected in these cans, four species were taken in numbers large enough to give an indication as to their preferences of carrion-baited ground cans versus carrion-baited air cans. Nicrophorus orbicollis, Silpha americana, and S. noveboracensis were attracted primarily to the ground cans while N. tomentosus strongly preferred the air cans.
4008688|Sixty species of adult aquatic and semiaquatic Coleoptera were collected during a four-year survey of aquatic invertebrate communities of nine northwestern Wisconsin wetlands. Haliplidae (Haliplus immaculicollis and H. blanchardi), Curculionidae (Tanysphyrus lemnae and Onychylis nigrirostris), and several species of Dytiscidae were dominant. Liodessus flavicollis, Hydrovatus pustulatus, Celina hubbelli, Haliplus borealis, and Peltodytes edentulus were found mostly in large, deep, lake-like wetlands, while Desmopachria convexa, Uvarus granarius, H. blanchardi, and three species of Lixellus generally were restricted to small, shallow, acidic, kettle-hole wetlands. Beetle assemblages in the study wetlands were influenced by a combination of habitat variables, including water depth and permanency, floral and faunal composition, and acidity.
4008587|The aquatic weevil genus Neohydronomus Hustache has three species in the Neotropical Region from south central Mexico south to Argentina and from Cuba. All are associated with water lettuce, Pistia stratiotes Linnaeus. The genus and two species are redescribed, and one new species, N. elegans, is described. A generic diagnosis and a key to the species are included. For each species there are habitus photographs, geographical distribution, discussion of variation, comparative notes, and illustrations of the phallus and the spermatheca. For the type species, N. pulchellus Hustache, illustrations of the eighth sternite and of the entire sclerotized portion of the female reproductive system are included, as well as illustrations of the male tegmen and spiculum gastrale of N. affinis Hustache. Neohydronomus affinis (under the name N. pulchellus) has been introduced as a potential biological control agent of water lettuce in Australia, Papua New Guinea, South Africa, and southeastern United States (south central Florida).
4008949| New host records for 24 species of Brazilian Bruchidae and notes on the biology and behavior of some of them are presented. A new species, Caryedes maricae Kingsolver, is described and illustrated from Maric, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
40983312|We conducted studies to determine the distribution, abundance, and conservation status of Omus submetallicus G. Horn. From pitfall traps and visual searches, we found 286 O. submetallicus adults at six sites in far western Fresno County, California where larval burrows were abundant and widespread. The same survey methods produced 975 Omus californicus lecontei G. Horn, mostly from seven sites in San Benito County, but others from two sites, one within 300 m of one of the O. submetallicus sites. Contrary to previous reports, we conclude that O. submetallicus does not occur in Monterey County (including Priest Valley) or in Kings County, but ranges east of the designated Warthan Canyon type locality where the habitat is generally drier and less densely vegetated than most of the rest of the canyon. Omus submetallicus is primarily associated with blue oak woodland and bull (digger) pine, but not with poison oak as previously reported. We predict that the actual range of O. submetallicus extends several miles north and south of the sites where we found it along Hwy. 198 because similar habitat is present in various small canyons there. This area is mostly private property, roadless, and accessible only on foot, so thorough surveys are difficult. All populations were on private lands used for low intensity cattle grazing which does not seem to pose a significant risk to the species. Because this area is unlikely to be developed in the near future, the species does not seem to be in danger of extinction at this time, despite its extremely limited geographic range.
4009978| The Japanese species of the genus Armostus Sharp, 1890 are revised. Two new species, A. nigricans Hoshina and Sat and A. ohyamatensis Hoshina and Sat are described. A. schenklingi (d'Orchymont 1914) is recorded for the first time from Japan. A key to the Japanese species is given. 
4009440|This study examined the effect of the number of maternal matings on egg production, embryonic development and female longevity in Homichloda barkeri (Jacoby) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae). Single-mated females lived longer than multiple-mated and unmated females. The number of eggs produced per day and the proportion of eggs that developed between single- and multiple-mated females was not affected by mating frequency.
4007906|Larvae of the Aleocharinae spin a silken cocoon for pupation. Many workers have suggested that the source of the silken material is the large median gland found on the eighth tergum of larvae of many species. However, it has been found that this gland functions as an "osmeterium" in larvae of Oligota oviformis Csy. Observations of pupal cell formation by larvae of Gyrophaena nana Payk. are reported. Larvae shape cells by rearranging substrate material with their mandibles. Silken material is secreted from the apex of the abdomen as a tiny, clear, shining droplet of viscous, colorless fluid which is touched to the substrate and drawn out as a thin thread as the abdomen is moved. Among other staphylinids, similar cocoons for pupation are produced by larvae of Stenus spp.
27571163|The larval behaviors probably associated with respiration are reported in different larval instars of Luciola substriata Gorham (Coleoptera: Lampyridae). The behavior involved exposing eighth abdominal segment with spiracles to the atmosphere when swim behavior occurred to 1st-2nd and 3rd-6th instar larvae. In addition, 3rd-6th instar larvae exposed second to seventh abdominal segments with spiracles to air when swimming. Swimming and the behavior that uses the force of body curving travelling in a head-to-tail direction produces a sinusoidal wave. However, probably 1st-2nd instar larvae used both tracheal gills and the exposed posterior spiracle for respiration. Whereas 3rd-6th instar larvae lack tracheal gills, they probably rely only on tracheal respiration. The survival times of 1st-2nd instar larvae were nine times to 3rd-6th instar larvae when the water in the beakers was isolated from atmosphere by a thin plastic membrane. The potential for different selective pressures acting on these early and late instars was discussed.
4009557| A key to all 14 species of Aristochroa Tschitschrine is provided with a description of A. zhongdianensis new species, from Yunnan, China. The new species is similar to A. deuvi Xie and Yu 1993 with the same conformation of elytral intervals 1, 3 and 5, but differs by smooth vertex, proepisterna, metepisterna, and inner basal fovea of pronotum (all punctate in A. deuvi). The new species is also similar to A. balangensis Xie and Yu 1993 with smooth proepisterna and narrow elytral intervals 1, 3 and 5, but differs from it in having the prosternum not longitudinally depressed, frontal furrows of head and outer basal fovea of pronotum punctate, and elytral interval 5 ended near sub-apical margin. The symmetric apical lamella of aedeagus in dorsal view in the new species differs from bent ones in A. deuvi and A. balangensis. Type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. 
40389447|Two species in the weevil subfamily Conoderinae are described from Cocos Island, Costa Rica. The more common Hoplocopturus sherrywernerorum, new species, is sexually dimorphic and has a Lechriops-like pattern of setae similar to the Central American H. ochreicollis Champion, although it does not seem closely related to any mainland species. Copturomimus hoguei, new species, is a larger species with elytral costae similar to the widespread Central American C. octocostatus Champion.
4008088|A new species, Nebrioferonia intermedia, is described from New Guinea. A key to three previously described species, N. strigitarsis Straneo, Homalonesiota karawari Maindron, H. straneoi Darlington, and the new species is given. Apomorphic characters that delineate each genus are discussed and a cladogram of species relationships is given.
4008007|The current distribution of Onthophagus gazella Fabricius released in Texas and O. taurus Schreber accidentally released in Florida is discussed. Based on capture records as of the beginning of cold weather in the fall of 1981, the 2 species have spread from their original release sites in those 2 states and have now met near the Mississippi River in East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana.
4009341|Description of structures of the three instars of Agabinus glabrellus (Motschulsky) is presented including detailed chaetotaxal and porotaxal analyses. Larvae of Agabinus Crotch are compared phylogenetically with those of other Nearctic genera of the subfamily Colymbetinae. Agabinus is hypothesized to be closely related phylogenetically with Agabus Leach, Ilybius Erichson, and Hydrotrupes Sharp based on absence of the primary pore FRe, and the more distal insertion of the primary seta FE1 on femora. It is postulated that Agabinus is the sister-group of a clade comprised of Agabus + Ilybius + Hydrotrupes.
4000001|The discovery of Exomella pleuralis in Oregon and 4 localities are given along with generalizations of the habitat and a review of the classification.
4008868|Listrorrhynchus subulatus Champion, type species by monotypy of the genus Listrorrhynchus Champion, is transferred to the genus Anthonomus as A. subulatus (Champion), new combination, and the genus group name Listrorrhynchus is placed in new synonymy under the name Anthonomus Germar. A lectotype is designated for L. subulatus. The relationship of the species to the species in the Anthonomus furcatus group is discussed.
4009654|Two dung beetle species were studied over the course of 14 months in grasslands located on the eastern side of the Pico de Orizaba volcano in the state of Veracruz, Mexico, at an altitude of 2,700 m. Field samples were analyzed monthly to determine population abundances and sexual maturity stages. The most abundant species was Aphodius (Trichaphodius) opisthius Bates, which was active from June to December 1998, and from May to July 1999. In 1998, this species showed two population peaks, the highest in June, the other in November. Between June and August, individuals were found in maturing and mature sexual stages. In contrast, between September and December, the individuals found were recently emerged and immatures. No Aphodius opisthius individuals were found between January and April 1999, the period of the year that is cold and dry. Possibly the immature adults of both sexes entered into diapause. In 1999, the species showed a population peak again in the humid month of June. From May to July, individuals observed were found in maturing and mature stages. Cephalocyclus hogei Bates was less abundantly found, being active only in June of 1998 and in June and July of 1999, and presenting just one abundance peak each year. All females observed were mature. Maturing males were found in July of 1998, mature males in June of 1999, and immature, maturing, and mature males in July of 1999. From August 1998 through May of the following year, no individuals of this species were encountered, they may have entered diapause during these 10 months. Both species are univoltine, and the emergences of the new generations in these species do not overlap.
4007928|Larvae and adults of Alphitobius diaperinus, the lesser mealworm, bored into and lived in the scrotum of Rattus norvegicus, the Norway rat, on Negros Island, Philippines. The lesser mealworm, a pest of stored food products, sometimes associates with bats, poultry and other birds, and several vertebrates; literature reports of such associations are reviewed.
4009821|Bledius beattyi Blackwelder, 1943 (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae: Oxytelinae) and Dyschiriodes sublaevis (Putzeys, 1846) (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Scaritinae) are both recorded from Big Pine Key, Florida, providing the first United States record for the former and the first Bledius Leach-Dyschiriodes Jeannel co-occurrence (likely prey-predator) record for both species. In combination with previously published data, these records provide the first information on possible predatorprey associations for B. ceratus Blackwelder, 1943 as well.
4008081|Barimononychus kazirangensis, new genus and species from India, represents the third Oriental baridine genus characterized by single rather than paired tarsal claws. Male and female genitalia are figured.
4009548| This contribution reports on the discovery of Calleida migratoria Casale, new species, a ground beetle previously unknown to the Galpagos Islands. Since the recent and very strong 1997-98 El Nio event we have found this species on five of the Galpagos Islands: Isabela, Pinta, Santa Cruz, Santiago and Rabida. The species is also known from Peru and its presence in Galpagos is therefore most probably another anthropogenic introduction which has taken advantage of the unusually favourable climatic circumstances of the last El Nio. Calleida migratoria is described and a provisional identification key is added to distinguish the new taxon from its closest relatives. 
4000067|The life cycle of Smicronyx commixtus Dietz, a curculionid associate of marshelder, Iva xanthifolia Nutt., is discussed. The beetle is univoltine in southeastern Washington, with peak adult populations emerging during early August. Eggs are deposited in the achenes and the first- to fourth-stage larvae completely consumed the developing embryos. Diapausing fourth-stage larvae overwintered in the soil beneath the plant. Pupation occurred in the soil from mid-June to mid-July.
3999542|A new species, Anthaxia quercicola is described and the male genitalia and protibia are illustrated. Additional information is provided on the distribution or hosts of 12 other North American buprestids.
40983332|Adult Cicindela nebraskana Casey were captured and allowed to mate and oviposit in the laboratory. The resultant larvae provide the first formal description for all instars of this species. In 2008 and 2009, C. nebraskana was found at several new locations in Nebraska as well as in a previously unrecorded county (Dawes). Observations were made on its habitat preference, seasonality, and behavior.
4009711|Species of 11 families of Coleoptera are known to pollinate flowering plants. In western North America, the 300+ species of the beetle subfamily Dasytinae (Coleoptera: Melyridae) are commonly found on flowers, where adults feed on both nectar and pollen. The dense setae and pubescence of adult dasytines often trap pollen grains, which are transported to other flowers during the course of normal adult feeding. Adults of many dasytine species are abundant, and may form large feeding aggregations. A preliminary list is presented of plant species on whose flowers or pollen cones adult dasytines have been collected, based on literature records and museum specimen labels. These plant species represent 68 genera in 26 families, and include species grown as food crops and species that are important browse or forage plants for livestock and wildlife. At least two plant species, both in the family Polemoniaceae, rely predominantly on species of Dasytinae for pollination.
4009916|The South American genus Selviria Stebnicka is redefined, S. anneae new species from Brazil is described and figured, a new distribution record for S. matogrossoensis Stebnicka and differentiating diagnosis are included.
4009393| Onthophagus barretti, new species, from Daren Province (Panama) and O. breviconus, new species, from Guatemala and Honduras are described and illustrated. Onthophagus orphnoides Bates is now considered a valid species and removed from synonymy with O. mirabilis Bates. The limits of the mirabilis species group are redefined to exclude O. quetzalis Howden and Gill. A key is given to the species in the mirabilis group. /// Les auteurs dcrivent et illustrent deux nouvelles espces, soit Onthophagus barretti de la province de Daren au Panama et O. breviconus du Guatemala et du Honduras. Le statut de l'espce O. orphonoides Bates, qui tait considr synonyme de O. mirabilis Bates, est rvis; l'espce redevient valide. Les limites du groupe d'espces mirabilis sont redfinies et O. quetzalis Howden et Gill est maintenant exclue de ce groupe. On prsente un tableau de dtermination pour les espces du group mirabilis. 
4007960|The following generic reassignments are made: Scymnus granum Gorham and Scymnus cribripennis Champion to Stethorus; Hyperaspis pauperula Gorham and Cryptognatha tumidiventris Champion to Calloeneis; Scymnus grumus Gorham to Diomus; Cryptognatha annulata Gorham to Curticornis; and Poria stellaris Gorham to Zenoria. Stethorus guatemalensis Hall and Fleschner is placed as a junior synonym of Stethorus granum (Gorham), and Zenoria discrepa Gordon as a junior synonym of Zenoria stellaris (Gorham).
3999754|Field observations, made over a period of 28 years on the biology, ecology, and behavior of Dryobius sexnotatus Linsley, indicate that larvae feed in Ulmus, Fagus, Tilia americana Linnaeus, or Acer saccharum Marshall for a period of 2-3 years. They seem to prefer standing overmature trees. The larva, described from 14 specimens taken from Tilia in Maryland, supports Linsley's suggested relationships between the Dryobiini and Callidiini. The range extends from Kansas, east to Maryland, south to Louisiana and north to Michigan; but 80% of the specimens are from the Ohio River Valley. The pseudoscorpion, Parachelifer superbus Hoff, was taken in a phoretic association with the adult beetle in Pennsylvania.
4010025|Two subspecies of the gyrinid species Dineutus emarginatus (Say) (Coleoptera: Gyrinidae) are generally recognized in North America: D. e. emarginatus (Say) and D. e. floridensis (Ochs). Analysis of 10 mensural characters using principal component analysis (PCA) revealed no differences in relation to geography in support of treating the two forms as separate subspecies. PCA showed no differing patterns of covariance for the 100 specimens studied, suggesting no differentiation among the character suites for the traits analyzed.
4009899| An endogean carabid from Portugal (type locality Aldeia do Mato), Hypotyphlus lusitanicus, new species, is described, belonging to the Hypotyphlus pandellei Group. This work provides diagnostic characters and a description. A key to species of the Iberian Peninsula of the genus Hypotyphlus Jeannel is given. This is the first species of this genus to be reported as far west as Portugal. The new species is more closely related to the geographically remote, Pyreneesinhabiting, H. ribagorzanus (Bolivar) and H. lidiae Hernando and Fresneda than to the geographically more proximate H. guadarramus (Ehlers) and H. huetei Ortuo, of the Spanish Sistema Central, suggesting a complex history of the pandellei species Group in the Iberian Peninsula. /// Neste trabalho  descrita uma espcie de coleptero endgeno, Hypotyphlus lusitanicus nova espcie, de Portugal (localidade tpica: Aldeia do Mato). Esta espcie pertence ao Grupo pandellei e este estudo faculta as principais caractersticas para diagnosticar esta espcie e faz a sua descrio. Faculta-se uma chave dicotmica para a identificao das espcies do gnero Hypotyphlus que ocorrem na Pennsula Ibrica. Esta  a primeira espcie deste gnero a ser registada para Portugal. A nova espcie est morfologicamente mais prxima de H. ribagorzanus (Bolivar) e de H. lidiae Hernando & Fresneda, geograficamente mais afastadas (Pirinus), do que de H. guadarramus (Ehlers) e de H. huetei Ortuo (ambas do Sistema Central de Espanha), sugerindo uma histria complexa do Grupo pandellei na Pennsula Ibrica. 
4542992|Pleocoma hovorei La Rue, new species, is described and illustrated from Shasta and Tehama Counties, California, U.S.A. Included are remarks on taxonomy, adult behavior, and ecology. Based upon congruent morphological characters the new taxon is associated with the P. staff species group.
4007882|A new genus, Afrotrypetus, is described from South Africa with A. euphorbiae n. sp. as the type species.
4008692|The pulchellus group of Agrilus is characterized to include A. pulchellus Bland, A. rubrovittatus (Waterhouse) and A. inhabilis Kerremans. The latter is considered to be polytypic, with A. chalcogaster Van Dyke treated as a subspecies and a new one, A. i. cuprinus Nelson, described. Also included are two new species, A. hespenheidei Nelson (New Mexico, Texas) and A. utahensis Westcott (Utah, Arizona). The species in the pulchellus group are known from southeastern North Dakota to Guatemala and the tip of Baja California, and their center of distribution appears to be the southwestern United States. Evidence suggests that Asteraceae serve as host plants. Discussion of intraspecific variation and species comparison is provided, along with all available data on distribution and biology. Detail is given on an endangered habitat for A. utahensis.
4010073| New species of Phyllophaga are described from Mexican and Central American localities as follows: P. (Phytalus) godwini new species from tropical deciduous forest of Jalisco, Mexico; P. (incertae sedis) campana new species from montane tropical forest of Panama; P. (s. str.) nandalumia new species from tropical deciduous forest of Chiapas, Mexico; and P. (s. str.) cruces new species from montane tropical forest of Costa Rica. Drawings of male genital capsules and female genital plates are provided. /// Se describen cuatro especies nuevas de Phyllophaga colectadas en localidades de Mxico y Amrica Central: P. (Phytalus) godwini nueva especie de un bosque tropical caducifolio en Jalisco, Mxico; P. (incertae sedis) campana nueva especie de un bosque tropical de montaa en Panama; P. (s. str.) nandalumia nueva especie de un bosque tropical caducifolio en Chiapas, Mxico; y P. (s. str.) cruces nueva especie de un bosque tropical de montaa en Costa Rica. Se incluyen dibujos de las cpsulas genitales masculinas y las placas genitales femeninas. 
4007926|A trap designed for monitoring Coleoptera associated with dung communities is described. A modification of the trap is described that can be used to determine associations between beetles and phoretic mites.
4009577|Notiobia cephalus (Casey) is recognized as a valid species, supported by external morphological differences and allopatric distribution. This Floridian precinctive species was previously considered to be conspecific with N. nitidipennis (LeConte), which ranges from Texas to southern Ontario and Quebec. The name N. tenuitarsus (Casey) is removed from synonymy with N. nitidipennis and is considered to be a junior synonym of N. cephalus.
4543022|Sexual size dimorphism was quantified for a population of the diving beetle Laccophilus maculosus Say in Northern Ontario, Canada. Consistent with other populations of this species, but in contrast to the general pattern in insects, males were significantly larger than females in terms of body length, elytral length, and pronotal width. There was a significant multivariate difference in body size between the sexes, and discriminant function analysis identified 68.87% of individuals as the correct sex based on measurements of body size. Males also had significantly longer femora, longer tibiae, and larger tarsi on the pro- and mesothoracic legs.
4000042|Ptomophagus californicus (LeConte) is a scavenger found in mammal nests, caves, fungi, and in the nests of the wasp Vespula. Here I report the first record of its presence in an ant nest (Formica haemorrhoidalis Emery). It was not found in 182 excavated nests of 27 other species of ants. In laboratory nests P. californicus was completely ignored by F. haemorrhoidalis and was usually in the bottom moister areas. The ants do not seem to benefit from the presence of P. californicus. Other genera of beetles found in or near the nests of F. haemorrhoidalis include: Anorus, Apsena, Coniontis, Cremastocheilus, Ctenicera, Dyschirius, Euphoriaspis, Hylastes, Nacaeus, Nemocestes, Nudobius, Omalium, Serica, Tachyporus, and Zalobius.
4009977| Based on adult structural features of a single male specimen in Bates' collection of the Musum national d'Histoire naturelle (MNHN), Paris, a new genus and new species of Orthogoniini (Coleoptera: Caraboidea), Neoorthogonius orientalis Tian and Deuve, from Bombay, Maharashtra State, India is described and illustrated. This new genus is distinct from other genera of the Oriental Orthogoniini by its sub-moniliform antennae, extraordinarily dilated hind femora, narrow pronotum, and abdominal ventrites 4-6 with cilia at hind margins. Neoorthogonius presents a unique lineage. It is more closely allied to Orthogonius Macleay than other genera among Orthogoniini according to the elytral structure and bisetose state of apex of the ligula. 
3999743| The Neotropical agonine genus Glyptolenus Bates is briefly redefined to include certain species heretofore assigned to Colpodes MacLeay. All described species are keyed, and the following data are given for each: major literature citations; type-locality; label data and type-depository; and notes on distribution and relationship. Type-localities are restricted for some species. Lectotypes are designated for all names not borne by clear holotypes. All undescribed species known to me are treated parenthetically in the key and briefly mentioned in the discussion of closely related forms. Of 19 species-group names recognized as valid, 12 are new combinations in Glyptolenus. Four other names are treated as synonyms, the following 3 as new synonymies: G. chalybaeus Dejean 1831 (= G. lebioides Bates 1878); and G. ruficollis Chaudoir 1878 (= G. cayennensis Chaudoir 1878, = G. viridinitens Oberthr 1883). 
4009191|The last instar larval and pupal stage of Plateros floralis (Melsheimer) are described and compared to the descriptions of P. coracinus (Kiesenwetter) from Japan and Ditoneces pubicornis (Walker) of Sri Lanka. Based on larval specimens of reared and geographically associated species, Plateros Bourgeois is characterized and character state variation discussed. The longitudinal supralateral sulci of the thorax and first eight abdominal segments of late instar larvae and the setal insertions on the pupal prothoracic and abdominal papillae (chalazae) are hypothesized to be synapomorphies of Plateros, Calleros Gorham, Ditoneces Waterhouse within the Platerodina. Biology of immature Plateros is briefly discussed. Based on the hypothesized synapomorphy of the lateral ecdysial membrane of the larval heads, the Platerodina are removed from the Erotinae, elevated to subfamilial status, and placed with the Lycinae, Metriorrhynchinae, Ateliinae, Leptolycinae, and Calochrominae.
4008852|The anthribid genus Holostilpna Jordan was described with Choragus nitens Leconte as type species. Jordan's specimens of nitens were misidentified; he had in hand an undescribed species of Euxenus Leconte, here named Euxenus jordani, n.sp. Holostilpna Jordan, with Euxenus jordani, n.sp. as type species (= Choragus nitens, Jordan, not Leconte) becomes a subjective synonym of Euxenus Leconte, type species Euxenus punctatus Leconte. The true Choragus nitens Leconte is transferred to Pseudochoragus Petri, NEW COMBINATION, a genus previously known only from western Europe. Euxenus punctatus, E. jordani, and Pseudochoragus nitens are described and/or illustrated, and a key to Nearctic Euxenus is presented. All literature references to Leconte's Choragus nitens, including Anderson's description of the larvae, are based on Euxenus jordani.
4009758|A new species of Enaphalodes, E. archboldi Lingafelter and Chemsak, is described from Archbold Research Station, Highlands County, Florida. This localized species has been confused with A. rufulus (Haldeman), a widespread species, which it resembles. Romaleum decipiens Bates is designated as a new synonym of E. atomarius (Drury). Romaleum cylindricum Knull is designated as a new synonym of E. cortiphagus (Craighead). Diagnoses, habitus photographs and drawings, and a key to the nine recognized species of Enaphalodes are provided.
4009092|The scarab beetle faunas of the five major forest-types in the Mexican state of Chiapas were surveyed and analyzed chorographically. Tropical deciduous forest had slightly more species than montane rain forest or lowland rain forest. The cloud forest had far fewer species represented than the other forest types. However, the cloud forest had the highest proportion (30%) of regional endemics. Endemism followed a decreasing gradient from high to low elevation. In terms of distributional affinities, the majority of species were either widespread (from Central Mexico to Costa Rica) or were Mexican (Chiapas to Central Mexico). Only about seven percent of the fauna was of southern affinity (Chiapas south to Costa Rica). This latter group was mainly found in low elevational forests. The subfamilies Dynastinae and Scarabaeinae had the largest proportion of species with southern affinity, and a low proportion of endemics. The Cetoniinae were overwhelmingly Mexican in distributional affinity. The Trichiinae and Melolonthinae had the greatest proportion of endemics and the lowest proportion of widespread species. In general the phytophagous subfamilies tended to have a strong Mexican influence, a low ecological amplitude, and reached their greatest diversity in the seasonally dry tropical deciduous forest. Overall, the pattern suggested a mixed origin for the Chiapas scarab fauna with important parallels in the evolutionary history of the flora; i.e., an ancient northern element at high elevations, and a recent southern influence at the lower elevations.
4009984|The following new synonymies within the genus Loxandrus are proposed: L. parvicollis Casey, 1918 and L. concinnus Casey, 1918 with L. celeris (Dejean, 1828); L. crenulatus Chaudoir, 1868 with L. crenatus LeConte, 1852; L. calathinus LeConte, 1878 and L. cursitans Casey, 1918 with L. agilis (Dejean, 1828); L. suturalis Casey, 1918 with L. cervicalis Casey, 1918; L. comptus Casey, 1918, L. contumax Casey, 1918 and L. breviusculus Casey, 1924 with L. floridanus LeConte, 1878; L. aduncus Allen, 1972 with L. parvulus Chaudoir, 1868; L. minutus Allen, 1972 with L. pusillus LeConte, 1852; L. vitiosus Allen, 1972 with L. vulneratus Casey, 1918; L. fulgens Casey, 1918 with L. brevicollis (LeConte, 1848); L. ludovicianus Casey, 1918 with L. collucens Casey, 1918; L. limatus Casey, 1918 with L. rectus (Say, 1823); L. reflexus LeConte, 1878 and L. lateralis Casey, 1918 with L. saphyrinus (Chaudoir, 1843). Syntypes of Loxandrus accelerans Casey, 1918, L. collucens Casey, 1918, L. piceolus Chaudoir, 1868, L. piciventris (LeConte, 1848), and L. proximus Chaudoir, 1868 could not be associated with any species treated by Allen (1972) and are likely valid species. Species groups for North American Loxandrus are briefly characterized. Species belonging to each group are listed and their distributions noted.
4008914|Frequency histograms of the head capsule lengths of Palirhoeus eatoni (C. O. Waterhouse) and Bothrometopus randi Jeannel larvae, collected in the field, indicate that both these epilithic ectemnorhinine species have seven larval instars. Head capsule measurements and wet masses are provided for each instar of both species. Larval activity patterns are discussed.
4008147|The genus Bruchela Dejean (Urodon auctt.) is clearly Curculionoid, not Chrysomeloid, and is placed in the family Urodontidae. Both adult and larval characters support this placement.
3999698|The abrupt postocular constriction of the head, and pubescent tibial spurs of Pectotoma hoppingi Hatch make its placement within the Melandryidae (sensu stricto) or Tetratomidae (sensu Crowson, 1955; Miyatake, 1960) untenable. A discussion of these and additional characters leads the author to propose that Pectotoma be placed in the scraptiid tribe Scraptiini.
4009357| The "tenebrosa group" of Dicerca Eschscholtz with its species: D. tenebrosa tenebrosa (Kirby), D. tenebrosa knulli Nelson, D. crassicollis LeConte, D. sexualis Crotch, D. lugubris LeConte, D. punctulata (Schnheer), D. dumolini (Laporte and Gory), and D. tuberculata (Laporte and Gory) is assigned to the subgenus Argante Gistel. The biology and relationships of Dicerca cajonensis Knull are discussed, and the male is described. 
27571122|Pitfall traps were employed to investigate the effects of post-fire salvage logging on abundance of pill beetles (Coleoptera: Byrrhidae) across an ecotone from unsalvaged habitat into the interior of a salvaged stand in the Canadian boreal forest. Byrrhids (mainly Byrrhus geminatus LeConte) were dramatically more abundant at the edge of salvaged habitat and more common in the salvage habitat relative to the unsalvaged stand. This holarctic beetle, herein reported for the first time from Alberta, is characteristic of disturbance, and its abundance appears to reflect a relative degree of disturbance over natural post-fire conditions.
4008106|Conoplectus Brendel is accepted as the proper name for the genus. Hexirhexius Grigarick and Schuster is reduced to a junior synonym. Conoplectus canaliculatus (LeConte) is redescribed and the following species are described as new: C. newtoni (Chiapas, Mex.), C. tamazunchalus (San Luis Potosi, Mex.), C. excavoides, C. acornus, and C. bicentennialus (Florida) and C. susae (Arkansas). A key for discrimination of these species is provided. Phylogenetic relationships within the genus are hypothesized using a method of cladistic analysis based on the distribution of apomorphic character states.
4009702|Heterosternuta phoebeae, new species, is described, illustrated, and discussed in the context of other members of the genus. The bizarre, large, trifid aedeagus of this species is unique in Heterosternuta Strand.
4009640| Tyrannasorus rex Ratcliffe and Ocampo (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea: Hybosoridae), a new genus and new species of fossil hybosorid, is described from the Dominican Republic. This fossil scarabaeoid is embedded in the amber resin of Hymenaea protera Poinar (Leguminosae), and it dates from the Miocene. /// Se describe Tyrannasorus rex Ratcliffe and Ocampo (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea: Hybosoridae), un nuevo gnero y especie de hybosrido fosil de Repblica Dominicana. Este scarabeoideo fsil est includo en mbar originado de la resina de Hymenaea protera Poinar (Leguminosae) y data del Mioceno. 
27571126|This paper shows that juvenile nematodes inhabit a morphologically distinct region of the Malpighian tubule excretory organ in the neotropical mango bark beetle, Hypocryphalus mangiferae (Stebbing) (Coleoptera: Scolytidae). Under the scanning electron microscope the infested region appears as an enlarged pocket in the proximal region of the Malpighian tubule near its insertion into the digestive tract. Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated the pocket wall to be thin with a single layer of muscle, whereas in the rest of the Malpighian tubule wall there is a typical muscle layer and a simple epithelium adapted for excretion. Results suggest a phoretic other than entomopathogenic association between H. mangiferae and Aphelenchoididae.
40664413|We present an updated checklist of the aquatic adephagan Coleptera collected in northern Tunisia over the course of a year (from May 2005 to April 2006). It includes a total of 57 species (three Gyrinidae, six Haliplidae, one Paelobiidae, one Noteridae, and 46 Dytiscidae). Hydroglyphus major (Sharp, 1882) is recorded for the first time from Tunisia. The distributions of the species in Tunisia and the rest of world is discussed. A list of adephagan species recorded from Tunisia is included.
4010009|A new apionine weevil, Coelocephalapion gandolfoi, new species, from Argentina and Chile is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to the C. frontellum species group and is especially close to the North American species C. frontellum (Fall), C. subornatum (Fall) and C. tellum Kissinger. Coelocephalapion gandolfoi has been associated with the pods or plants of the following species of Prosopis L. (Fabaceae): P. alba (Grisebach), P. alpataco Philippi, P. caldenia Burkart, P. chilensis (Molina), P. flexuosa DC, P. nigra (Grisebach), and P. ruscifolia (Grisebach). It is under investigation as a potential biocontrol agent for invasive Prosopis species in South Africa.
4008501|A new clytine beetle, Cyrtoclytus tazoei, is described from northern Thailand. This new species is quite isolated within the genus because of peculiar characters, such as very long legs, distinctly swollen hind femora, large and transverse prothorax, and sinuate sides of the elytra.
4009458|The genus Haenkea Tippmann and its three species, H. zischkai Tippmann (type species), H. thoracica (Chevrolat), and H. atra (Chevrolat), new combination, are revised. All the taxa are redescribed and illustrated. New data on geographical distribution and a key for species are also provided.
4009337| The ultrastructure of the glands responsible for synthesizing the aggregation pheromone rhynchophorol in the beetle Rhynchophorus palmarum (L.) was studied. Glands from live beetles were removed and examined under a light microscope using semithin sections (1 m) and under a transmission electron microscope (TEM) using ultrathin sections (60 nm). The glands show an alveolar structure without a reservoir and the cells making up the gland are arranged in a typical acinus pattern. The existence of two types of cells with different electron densities, secretion canaliculi, numerous mitochondria and smooth endoplasmic reticulum in abundance were observed. These latter organelles are characteristic of cells which synthetize non-proteinaceous substances and are thus, likely candidates for the producion of rhynchophorol. 
4009134|Identification of the foregut contents located in adults among four species of Ilybius Erichson from Newfoundland, Canada, showed that adults are generalist feeders upon various invertebrates. Chironomid larvae were the most prevalent items found in the foreguts examined. Laboratory observations indicated that adults may be scavengers and cannibals.
3999791|Five species of Aphodius were found living as inquilines in the nesting and refuse chambers of a pocket gopher, Geomys bursarius brazensis Davis, at College Station, Brazos County, Texas. Two of these species have not heretofore been reported in association with pocket gophers in Texas.
4007968|The genus Nodopus and N. caviceps are redescribed, and a new species, N. tibialis is described from southeastern North America. N. tibialis is distinguished from N. caviceps by the more narrow cephalic sulcus, apically widened protibiae, and emarginate pygidium of the male.
40389448|For the conservation of the diving beetle Dytiscus sharpi (Wehncke) (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae), which is included on the Red Data List of Japan, it is critical to understand its ecological background. In the present study, we focused on its feeding behavior and nutritional needs under laboratory breeding conditions. First, we made a list of the possible candidates of prey in the same habitats where we caught D. sharpi. We found that the tadpoles of Rana ornativentris (Werner) were the major species present from March to April, when the beetle larvae appeared. Second, under our laboratory conditions, we investigated the size preference of beetle larvae preying on R. ornativentris tadpoles. We found a significant positive correlation between the developing stage of the larvae and the preferred prey size, i.e., the first and third instars preferred smaller and larger prey, respectively, but second instars did not show any size preference. The size of full-grown adult beetles was almost the same as that of wild insects found in the field, indicating that R. ornativentris tadpoles provide almost complete nutrition for larval growth. Finally, we investigated how the size and number of R. ornativentris tadpoles were correlated with the developing stage of beetle larvae. We suggest that it is crucial for Dytiscus larvae to have access to tadpoles of the proper size and amounts, depending on their growth stage.
4007908|On Barro Colorado Island, Panama, six species of scarabaeines are documented for the first time to be attracted to reptile or amphibian fecal material. This phenomenon is considered to occur more frequently than previously reported.
4008836|Species richness and abundance of members of 21 families of beetles in the Eucinetoidea and Cucujoidea are compared between two mixed deciduous-coniferous forest sites: one old-growth and the other cut in 1944-1945. The immatures of these beetle species feed on slime-molds, fungal fruit bodies, or mycelia. Fifty-five species feeding on fungi involved in all stages of log decomposition were collected using combination flight intercept-pitfall traps. Species are grouped by host types present at different stages in the decomposition of dead trees: slime molds; fruit bodies and mycelia under bark (primarily Ascomycetes and Fungi Imperfecti); exposed fruit bodies of Basidiomycetes; and Basidiomycete mycelia in rotten wood. Species richness between sites is equal for slime-mold feeders, higher at the old-growth site for species feeding on fungi beneath bark, and slightly higher at the younger forest site for those species feeding on Basidiomycete fruit bodies or mycelia. Species abundance is higher or similar in the old-growth forest for those taxa occurring at both sites, while those taxa found only at the younger forest are present in low numbers.
4009835| This paper describes the development and life history of a Korean native dung beetle, Copris ochus (Motschulsky), based on laboratory studies of beetles collected from the subtropical island of Je-Ju. The species is brood-caring and has an annual life cycle. Females lay a single batch of eggs in late summer or early autumn. Larvae develop to the 3rd instar and enter diapause before the onset of winter. Diapause is terminated by low winter temperatures that also prevent pupation until spring. Parents and progeny emerge together in mid-summer and undergo a period of intensive feeding before oviposition in late summer or early autumn. Some adults are present early in May-June and may represent insects that overwintered without breeding, or adults that emerged early because of the premature death of their offspring. Males and females co-operate in construction a brood chamber that is provisioned with fresh dung for oviposition. The chamber is commonly formed at depths of 22-35 cm below the surface and may contain 2-5 brood balls. Brood balls are generally pear-shaped (4.1  0.4 cm long and 3.8  0.3 cm in diameter), and each contains a single egg. Females lay an average of one egg for every 45 ml of dung buried (n = 26). At 25C, the duration of embryonic development is 9.0  1.7 days, followed by 6.1  1.0 and 7.8  1.9 days for the 1st and 2nd larval instars respectively. The duration of the third instar was indeterminate because this is the stage at which larvae enter diapause. This state of arrested growth persists over winter but development resumes in spring as temperatures begin to rise. In the laboratory, larvae were able to pupate at 25C but only after they were exposed to a period of chilling, the optimum conditions for diapause termination being 30 days at 7.5C. Under this combination of low and high temperatures, egg to adult development was completed in 26 weeks. 
4000133|Large samples of many beetles, including rarely captured Leiodinae and Coloninae (Leiodidae), can be collected in large-area "window" traps.
4008013|Two species in two genera are recognized for the family Byturidae Thomson in North America. Byturus bakeri Barber, B. rubi Barber, and B. sordidus Barber are reduced to synonymy with B. unicolor Say, the raspberry fruitworm. Byturellus Barber is recognized as a distinct monotypic genus. Byturellus grisescens dubius Barber is reduced to synonymy with Byturellus grisescens (Jayne). A key to the species is provided. Both species are described and illustrated, and their distributions and relationships are discussed.
3999968|Drawings of the larval head capsule and a description of the apical margin of the frontal piece for each species are given as a supplement to previously published aids in identification of larvae of carabids of cropland.
4000137|Woodruff identified Alaus patricius (Candeze) from Florida in 1974, but was unable to conclude that it inhabited the United States because the historical records were questionable. More recent collections substantiate that A. patricius is indeed part of the U.S. fauna, at least in Florida. Adults of both sexes are figured.
4009523|The genus Elytrogona Chevrolat is redefined. Stoiba decemmaculata Blake is a junior synonym of E. bulla Boheman, and E. interjecta Boheman is a junior synonym of E. quatuordecimmaculata Latreille, new synonymies. A key to the species of Elytrogona and distributional records are provided. A cladistic analysis is presented using Stoiba swartzii Boheman, S. bruneri Blake, Basipta stolida Boheman (Basiptini) and Asteriza flavicornis Olivier (Asterizini) as outgroups. Results indicated that brachyptery preceeded wing loss. The origin and subsequent radiation of the genus were less clear given the complex geology of the Greater Antilles.
3999807|The genus Euconosoma Cameron is reviewed. One new species, E. nepalensis, is described from Nepal. Conosoma pictum Bernhauer is transferred to Euconosoma. Euconosoma elegans Cameron is placed in synonymy with E. pictum.
4009930|Collagenus dasysternus Ratcliffe and Hardy, new genus and species, is described from eastern Venezuela. We include a revised key to the 26 genera of New World Pentodontini.
3999854| The ground beetle, Calosoma (Castrida) alternans granulatum Perty, is an efficient predator of the cotton leaf worms Alabama argillacea (Hbner) and Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith) in Bolivia and is a highly promising biological control agent against these pests. Field investigations indicate that these beetles are capable of keeping leaf worm populations within economically acceptable limits, thus eliminating need for at least 1 and perhaps 2 initial insecticide applications. C. a. granulatum should therefore be considered as a potentially highly useful element in integrated biocontrol programs against cotton pests elsewhere in South America and also in the agricultural ecosystem on the southern United States. 
4009380|The purpose of this study was to determine density and composition of riparian arthropod communities and food habits of predacious riparian beetles along a 3rd order stream in the Oregon Coast Range. The surface dwelling riparian invertebrate community along the stream is mainly composed of ground beetles (Carabidae; 29.8%), rove beetles (Staphylinidae; 21.2%), water scavenger beetles (Hydrophilidae; 19.5%), and spiders (Araneae; 5.0%). Carnivorous organisms comprise 41.8% of the epigeic fauna, detritivorous organisms 34%. The remaining 24.2% could not safely be classified as either carnivorous or detritivorous. Twenty-five carabid, 6 dytiscid, and 10 hydrophilid species were present. Eleven carabid species were exclusively found on sand bars. All abundant carabid species are spring breeders. Gut content analyses for three carabid and one dytiscid species were carried out (n=304). Chironomid (Diptera) larvae comprise approximately one third of the prey of the gravel bar dwelling ground beetles Bembidion osculans Casey and B. kuprianovii Mannerheim. They also feed on other small Diptera larvae, aquatic organisms such as caddisfly larvae, and emerging adult Diptera. More than 70% of the prey of the sand bar dwelling Omophron ovale Horn and of Hydrotrupes palpalis Sharp were chironomid larvae. The riparian predators tend to be largely dependent on aquatic organisms and on species living in the aquatic-terrestrial interface.
4009206|Adesmia longipes (Fabricius) and Adesmia dilatata dilatata (Klug) exhibit the tumbling movement found in some desert Tenebrionidae. This movement allows the beetles to escape from a threatening situation. Due to structural differences, each species executes the tumbling movement in a slightly different way. Adesmia longipes has longer legs than A. dilatata and exhibits greater variation. Adaptive leg length facilitates this movement, but the structure of the coxae, the shape of the elytra, and speed are also factors.
4008896|Eighteen species, 14 new and four by northward range extensions, are added to the known rhinotragine fauna of Central America and Mexico. New species are: Acyphoderes magna and Ommata (Chrysaethe) viriditincta from southern Mexico: Ommata (Chariergodes) turrialbae, Ommata (Eclipta) monteverdensis, and Ischasia indica from Costa Rica; Acyphoderes bayanicus from Costa Rica and Panama; Xenocrasis panamensis, Rhinotragus sulphureus, Ommata (Chrysaethe) aurantipennis, Ommata (Eclipta) igniventris, Ommata (Eclipta) minuens, Ommata (Eclipta) costipennis, Isthmiade parabraconides, and Isthmiade vitripennis from Panama. New Central American records are: Ommata (Ommata) elegans White from Panama and Mexico, Ischasia rufina Thomson from Costa Rica and Panama, and Odontocera dispar Bates and Aechmutes lycoides Bates from Panama. A key to Mexican and Central American rhinotragine genera is provided.
4008629| Six weevil species belonging to the tribe Ectemnorhinini are found on the Prince Edward Islands (4654S, 3745E). With the exception of Dusmoecetes similis (C. O. Waterhouse), which feeds on angiosperms, all the species, viz. Palirhoeus eatoni (C. O. Waterhouse), Bothrometopus randi Jeannel, Antarctonesiotes elongatus Jeannel, Mesembriorrhinus brevis (C. O. Waterhouse) and Dusmoecetes marioni Jeannel, are cryptogam feeders, often associated with bryophytes. Cryptogam herbivory, especially bryophyte and lichen feeding, is rare in the Curculionidae and it is suggested that this strategy evolved in response to the adverse conditions of the Pleistocene glaciations. 
4000036|A new species of Phaleria, P. championi, is described, and a lectotype is designated for P. guatemalensis Champion. P. championi shares unusually large interneural punctures with P. guatemalensis, but differs in ventral eye size, elytral microsculpture, epipleural setal development, abdominal setal patches among the males, and other more subtle characteristics. Both species occur along the west coast of Mexico and Central America; they appear to be allopatric, with P. championi occurring in the North and P. guatemalensis in the South.
4008905|Limnichoderus excelsus, Corrinea edita, and Phalacrichus sublimus are described from the Cerro de la Neblina of southern Venezuela.
4008995|Five new species of Heteroceridae, Heterocerus infrequens, H. mirus, H. aptus, H. insolens and Augyles blanda from the United States and Canada are described and illustrated. The relationship of these new species to previously described species and their position in previously published keys is noted.
4009535|We document the genus Micropsephodes in North America for the first time, based on M. lundgreni, new species from Florida, Louisiana, and Tennessee. We redescribe the genus based on examination of the type species, M. serraticornis Champion, and of undescribed species from the Dominican Republic and Ecuador. We provide a revised key to the genera of Anamorphinae of the United States to facilitate discrimination of Micropsephodes from previously recorded genera.
4009768|Recent collecting has revealed a number of synonymies and new distributional records for Caribbean and Antillean Cerambycidae. New synonymies established: Lamproclytus oakleyi Fisher = Lamproclytus elegans Fisher; Tilloclytus puertoricensis Fisher = Tilloclytus minutus Fisher; Leptostylopsis albosignatus (Fisher) = Leptostylopsis antillarum (Fisher); Styloleptus puertoricensis (Fisher) = Antilleptostylus nigricans (Fisher); Eugamandus brunneus Fisher = Eugamandus oakleyi Fisher; Lethes israeli Zayas = Styloleptus biustus biustus (LeConte). Desmiphora hirticollis (Olivier), and Amniscus similis (Gahan) are recorded from Puerto Rico for the first time.
4009291|The seven Latin American species of Corticeus Piller and Mitterpacher (= Hypophloeus Fabricius) described by Pic and Reitter are evaluated. Corticeus mexicanus Reitter = Hypophloeus meridanus Pic, new synonymy; Corticeus mexicanus Reitter = C. cylindricus Reitter, new synonymy and Corticeus erratus Reitter, new synonymy; Corticeus mexicanus Reitter argentinus Pic = Hypophloeus argentinus Pic, new status; Corticeus (= Hypophloeus) paulostriatus Pic, new combination = Corticeus tensicollis Triplehorn, new synonymy; Hypophloeus dufaui Pic = Iccius rufotestaceus (Champion) [Tenebrionidae, Diaperini], new status. Two new Corticeus species are described: Corticeus notialis Bremer and Triplehorn, from Brazil and Peru, and Corticeus abditus Bremer and Triplehorn, from Brazil.
4008163|Lochmodocerus antennatus, gen. nov. and sp. nov., is based on specimens from Chiapas, Mexico, and is placed in the subfamily Lamiinae, tribe Monochamini. The species is most similar to those in Deliathis and Plagiohammus, but differs from all described Monochamini in the New World in possessing zones of long, erect setae on some antennal segments in both sexes.
4008761|Carinodulini, a new tribe of sticholotidine Coccinellidae, is established for a new genus and species, Carinodula campbelli, from Mexico. This species is described, and taxonomically useful structures are illustrated. A key to the New World tribes of Sticholotidinae is presented and the placement of this new tribe, near Microweisini and related tribes, is discussed. Based upon examination of gut contents, this apterous species appears to feed on Homoptera, probably scale insects.
4000145|1,4-Benzoquinones and a hydrocarbon are identified from the defensive secretions of six ozaenine and one paussine species.
4008073|Three xantholinine species: Zeteotomus maximus (Bernhauer 1907), Z. dilatipennis (Kirshenblat 1948) and Nudobius lentus (Gravenhorst 1806) occurring on Kunashir Island (Kuril Islands), are discussed. A lectotype is disignated for Zeteotomus dilatipennis, and Nudobius excellens Tikhomirova 1973 is placed in synonymy with N. lentus.
3999436|Mesocordylus excisus and similis are described from Mexico and Costa Rica, respectively.
4009559| Two new species of Cyclocephala from Central America are described and diagnosed: C. abrelata Ratcliffe and Cave from northern Honduras and C. melolonthida Ratcliffe and Cave from southern El Salvador. /// Se describen y diagnostican dos especies nuevas de Cyclocephala en Amrica Central: C. abrelata Ratcliffe y Cave del norte de Honduras, y C. melolonthida Ratcliffe y Cave del sur de El Salvador. 
4009103| Viviparity is reported for the first time in Platyphora quadrisignata (Germar). Four larval instars were observed during laboratory rearing. Optimal larval development occurs at 25C and pupal development ceases at 30C. The minimal temperatures at which larval and pupal development ceased is 8C and 8.7C, respectively. Viviparity is also noted for the first time in P. sp., prob. fasciatomaculata Stl. 
4009540|The North American distribution of Cicindela trifasciata F. (Coleoptera: Cicindelidae) continues to extend northward. This species is coastal in distribution and is generally found along the Atlantic Ocean, Gulf Coast, and major rivers. We report a new state record in north-central Kansas and discuss possible modes of dispersal.
4009442|Seven South American and one Central American species of Athyreini are described, illustrated and related to species in groups previously revised. Five new species belong to the genus Athyreus Macleay: A. fritzi, new species, from Argentina, A. horatioi, new species, from Venezuela, A. langeri, new species, from Bolivia, A. nebulosus, new species, from Venezuela and A. peckorum, new species, from Venezuela. Two new species of Neoathyreus Howden and Martinez are from South America: N. asciculus, new species, from Trinidad and N. ramusculus, new species, from Ecuador; one is from Central America: N. isthmius, new species, from Panama.
4009811|Taphrocerus gracilis (Say) was observed mining the leaves of Rhynchospora corniculata (Lam.) A. Gray (new larval host record) at several locations in southeast Missouri. Two generations per year were observed, and no other plant species were observed being utilized as larval hosts. The beetle is also reported from R. corniculata in Mississippi.
4009696| Phylogenetic analyses were performed on the 17 taxa in the subtribe Brachysternina (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae: Anoplognathini) as a means of resolving classification conflicts and of identifying monophyletic groups. Results demonstrated that the subtribe is monophyletic and is composed of three monophyletic genera: Aulacopalpus Gurin-Mneville (nine species), Brachysternus Gurin-Mneville (seven species), and Hylamorpha Arrow (one species). Characters that define the genera are discussed, and the biogeography of the group is discussed. The genus Aulacopalpus is revised and now includes A. aconcaguensis new species, A. castaneus (Laporte), A. ciliatus (Solier), A. clypealis Ohaus, A. pilicollis (Fairmaire), A. punctatus (Fairmaire and Germain), A. pygidialis Ohaus, A. valdiviensis new species, and A. viridis Gurin-Mneville. The generic name Tribostethes Curtis is placed in synonymy with the valid name Aulacopalpus Gurin-Mneville; the species name Aulacopalpus fulvovirens Ohaus is placed in synonymy with the valid name Aulacopalpus castaneus (Laporte); the species name Amblyterus variabilis Philippi is placed in synonymy with the valid name Aulacopalpus punctatus (Fairmaire and Germain); and the species name Aegolasia michaelseni Kolbe is placed in synonymy with the valid name Aulacopalpus pilicollis (Fairmaire). Aulacopalpus viridis Gurin-Mneville is designated as the type species for the generic name Amblyterodes Germain. Phytholaema herrmanni herrmanni Germain is designated as the type species for the generic name Melicurus Germain, and the genus is transferred from the Brachysternina to the tribe Xylonychini (Scarabaeidae: Melolonthinae) as a junior synonym of the genus Phytholaema Blanchard. A lectotype is designated for each of the following names: Amblyterus variabilis Philippi, Aulacopalpus clypealis Ohaus, Aulacopalpus fulvovirens Ohaus, Aulacopalpus pygidialis Ohaus, Bembegeneius fulvescens Solier, Tribostethes ciliatus Solier, and Tribostethes pilicollis Fairmaire. A neotype is designated for Aegolasia michaelseni Kolbe, Aulacopalpus viridis Gurin-Mneville, Brachysternus castaneus Laporte, Tribostethes punctatus Fairmaire and Germain, and Tribostethes virens Philippi and Philippi. Descriptions of all species are included. A key to the genera of Neotropical Anoplognathini and species in the genus Aulacopalpus is provided. /// Se presenta un anlisis filogentico de los 17 taxa de la subtribu Brachysternina (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae: Anoplognathini). Este estudio se desarroll con el fin de resolver los conflictos de clasificacin de la subtribu, y para la identificacin de grupos monofilticos. Los resultados demuestran que la subtribu es monofiltica, y que est compuesta de tres gneros monofilticos: Aulacopalpus Gurin-Mneville (nueve especies), Brachysternus Gurin-Mneville (siete especies), e Hylamorpha Arrow (una especie). Los caracteres que definen los gneros y la biogeografa del grupo son discutidos en este artculo. Se revisa el gnero Aulacopalpus, que ahora incluye las siguientes especies: A. aconcaguensis nueva especie, A. castaneus (Laporte), A. ciliatus (Solier), A. clypealis Ohaus, A. pilicollis (Fairmaire), A. punctatus (Fairmaire and Germain), A. pygidialis Ohaus, A. valdiviensis nueva especie, y A. viridis Gurin-Mneville. El nombre genrico Tribostethes Curtis se reconoce como sinnimo del nombre vlido Aulacopalpus Gurin-Mneville; el nombre especfico Aulacopalpus fulvovirens Ohaus es puesto en sinonimia con el nombre vlido Aulacopalpus castaneus (Laporte); el nombre especfico Amblyterus variabilis Philippi es puesto en sinonimia con el nombre vlido Aulacopalpus punctatus (Fairmaire y Germain); y el nombre especfico Aegolasia michaelseni Kolbe se reconoce como sinnimo de Aulacopalpus pilicollis (Fairmaire). Se designa a Aulacopalpus viridis Gurin-Mneville como la especie tipo para el nombre genrico Amblyterodes Germain. Phytholaema herrmanni herrmanni Germain es designada como especie tipo para el nombre genrico Melicurus Germain; y este gnero es transferido de Brachysternina a la tribu Xylonychini (Scarabaeidae: Melolonthinae) como sinnimo junior del gnero Phytholaema Blanchard. Se designa lectotipo para cada uno de los siguientes nombres: Amblyterus variabilis Philippi, Aulacopalpus clypealis Ohaus, Aulacopalpus fulvovirens Ohaus, Aulacopalpus pygidialis Ohaus, Bembegeneius fulvescens Solier, Tribostethes ciliatus Solier, y Tribostethes pilicollis Fairmaire. Se designa neotipo para Aegolasia michaelseni Kolbe, Aulacopalpus viridis Gurin-Mneville, Brachysternus castaneus Laporte, Tribostethes punctatus Fairmaire y Germain, y Tribostethes virens Philippi y Philippi. Se incluyen descripciones de todas las especies. Se presenta una clave para los gneros neotropicales de Anoplognathini, y para las especies del gnero Aulacopalpus. 
4010022|The beetle family Colydiidae in the Maritime Provinces of Canada and in Maine in the United States is surveyed. Two species, Lasconotus borealis Horn and Synchita fuliginosa Melsheimer, are newly recorded from Nova Scotia. Records of L. borealis in New Brunswick are also reported, as are those of S. fuliginosa from Maine. The distribution and bionomics of both species are discussed. The fauna is briefly evaluated in the context of saproxylic beetles in general, and in particular in relation to the impact of forest management practices on such species. The possibility of Colydiidae occurring on Prince Edward Island is briefly discussed.
3999442|Fireflies (Coleoptera; Lampyridae) are parasitized by Diptera (Phoridae, Tachinidae), mites and nematodes. Predator literature is largely anecdotal and speculative--luminescence and chemicals might deter certain predators, and luminescence may attract others. Fireflies are distasteful to some lizards, birds, and mammals. Predators that possibly specialize on fireflies are certain birds (Caprimulgidae, Nyctibiidae), spiders (Lycosidae, Araneidae), certain anoles (Iquanidae) and frogs. Female Photuris spp. fireflies are specialized predators of luminescent male fireflies (Photuris, Photinus, Pyractomena).
4009837| Species of the genus Gyretes Brull of America north of Mexico are reviewed. Morphological variation among species is characterized using multivariate analyses. Three species are recognized: Gyretes iricolor Young, G. sinuatus LeConte and G. torosus new species. Gyretes compressus LeConte and G. californicus Rgimbart are synonymized under G. sinuatus new synonymies. Diagnoses, illustrations, and a key to identify species from America north of Mexico are provided. 
4009042|A new genus and species in the subfamily Eubriinae, Macroeubria jaechi Lee and Yang described from the Oriental region, is compared in detail with Eubria palustris Germar and Macroeubria lewisi Nakane. The new species and major generic characters are illustrated with line drawings, and the right elytra of the species are illustrated with scanning electron photomicrographs.
4008743|A new species of flea beetle, Disonycha comma, from the Dominican Republic is described and illustrated. It has been intercepted twice at Miami, Florida, and is a possible pest of melons. Two of the 35 North American species of Disonycha are currently recognized as pests. Characters are given which will allow separation of the new species from both the Caribbean and North American species of Disonycha which are most similar to it.
4009691|Data on the size of the beetle fauna of North America north of Mexico are summarized from the newly published volumes of American Beetles. As currently recorded, this fauna contains 25,160 species in 3,526 genera and 129 families. Five families together contain over 50% of the species, 13 families together more than 75%, and 29 together over 90%. Sixteen families that have been fully revised or reviewed showed an average increase in species diversity of 21% since 1963 (range -20% to +116%). The total number of species reported from North America is expected to continue to increase to nearly 28,000 species, as reports of known undescribed species currently number in the several hundreds.
4009972|The feeding ecology of Scarites aterrimus Morawitz (Coleoptera: Carabidae), an endangered shore-inhabiting species, was studied by field observations and laboratory experiments. S. aterrimus adults fed on a dead Anisolabis maritima (Bonelli) earwig and dead Armadillidium vulgare (Latreille) pill bug on a beach at night in central Japan. In the laboratory, the adults frequently fed on the carcasses of an earwig, the maggots of the fly species Phaenicia sericata (Meigen), the sandhopper Platorchestia joi Stock & Biernbaum and the pill bug A. vulgare. Predatory behavior was restricted to live fly larvae and pill bugs, occasionally live earwigs and sandhoppers. Similar results were obtained for S. aterrimus larvae. S. sterrimus seems to be a scavenger of various invertebrates and also a predator of slow-moving, less-defended invertebrates.
4000110|A new species of Curculionidae, Sibinia sociomelina, from the state of Chiapas, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Adults of the new species were collected on flowers of an unidentified mimosoid legume tree, along with adults of S. melina Faust which is reported for the first time from Mexico. The fact that S. sociomelina and S. melina share a common host and synapomorphic character states is evidence that the two are sister-species.
3999696|Descriptions are provided for 6 new species, mostly from coniferous forest habitats in montane regions of California and northern Baja California. These new species and E. caseyi Blaisdell share a high degree of similarity in the configuration of the male genitalia, and are here designated as the caseyi species group. Most members of the caseyi group are sympatric with superficially similar species of Eleodes, with which they were formerly confused. Such sympatric pairs always show major differences in male genitalia.
4000049|Nathriobrium methioides Hovore, a new genus and species of Cerambycid beetle, is described from specimens reared from Texas Ebony branches collected at Lake Corpus Christi State Park, San Patricio County, Texas. The new taxon is tentatively referred to the recently redefined tribe Obriini (subfamily Cerambycinae), and problems relating to tribal placement are briefly discussed. Comparisons are made with related species from southern South America.
27571054|Cybocephalus flavocapitis, new species, is described from Taiwan. Morphological features including detailed drawings of the male genitalia are illustrated, and host record and distribution data are provided. Cybocephalus nipponicus Endrdy-Younga is recorded from Taiwan for the first time.
4009698| Hybochaetodus flaco Ocampo, new species, from Cusco, Peru is described and illustrated. The genus Hybochaetodus now includes two species, H. flaco and H. obscurus Arrow, both from Peru. The two species are compared and a diagnosis for the genus Hybochaetodus Arrow is provided. /// Se describe e ilustra Hybochaetodus flaco Ocampo, especie nueva, de Cusco, Peru. El gnero Hybosorus ahora incluye dos especies H. flaco y H. obscurus, ambas de Per. Se compara las dos especies y se provee una diagnosis del genero Hybochaetodus. 
3999737|The Scarabaeoidea fauna of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta of northern Colombia is briefly considered, particularly in relation to the geological history of the area. The habits of 3 species, Heterogomphus dilaticollis Burmeister, Golofa porteri Hope, and Sphenognathus bellicosus Boileau, are discussed in some detail.
3999596|Available information regarding the species of the genus Oenopion Champion is summarized. A new species, adeptus, is described, and the species Iphthimus zopheroides Horn is transferred into Oenopion. This generic change is supported by differences in the composition of the defensive secretions of the 2 genera, as well as morphological evidence.
4009750|The weevil genus Entimus Germar is a monophyletic taxon, recognized by a combination of the following characters: large size (12-45 mm); presence of green, blue, and gold iridescent scales; antennae reaching base of prothorax, with second funicular article scarcely longer than first; widened frontal groove; pronotum as wide as long, granulate; elytra triangularly shaped; tibiae not crenulated or dentate within; scutellum protruding; and aedeagal apex slightly acute. It includes seven species, which are endemic to the Neotropics, ranging from Mesoamerica to northeastern Argentina. A cladistic analysis was carried out using 16 characters from external morphology, body vestiture, and male genitalia. The analysis yielded four equally parsimonious cladograms, each with 33 steps, a consistency index of 0.60, and a retention index of 0.53. After successive weighting, a single cladogram resulted, with 105 steps, a consistency index of 0.89, and a retention index of 0.90. According to this cladogram, the species of Entimus follow the sequence: E. arrogans Pascoe, E. granulatus (Linnaeus), E. imperialis (Forster), E. fastuosus (Olivier), E. sastrei Viana (= E. formosus Viana, syn. nov.), E. nobilis (Olivier), and E. excelsus Viana. According to predictions based on phylogenetic and distributional information available, the most likely mode of speciation for four species of the genus is sympatric, whereas E. arrogans and E. granulatus have followed an allopatric mode of speciation, and E. sastrei has followed the centrifugal mode of speciation.
4008063| Life histories are presented for Trirhabda virgata and T. borealis, two closely related leaf beetles that co-occur on goldenrod (Solidago spp.) in central New York. Eggs and larvae of the two species were indistinguishable, although T. virgata larvae were significantly larger. Life cycles were similar except for a slight difference in phenology; all stages of T. borealis appeared 1 to 2 weeks earlier in the season than those of T. virgata. Females of T. virgata possess more ovarioles/ovary and laid more eggs/cluster than T. borealis females. Invertebrate natural enemies of Trirhabda included 18 species in 10 families; most common were the host-specific tachinid, Aplomyiopsis xylota (Curran), the generalist coccinellid, Hippodamia glacialis (F.), and the nabid, Nabicula subcoleoptrata (Kirby). Trirhabda distribution and abundance in central New York were determined by surveying 23 old field sites. Mean beetle density was 7.6  1.4 individuals/sweep. Trirhabda virgata, present in all sites, was the dominant species, typically accounting for 90% of the beetles collected per field. Densities of the two species varied independently among sites. Spatial autocorrelation analysis did not detect any geographic pattern associated with either species' abundance. Possible explanations for the relative rarity of T. borealis are proposed. 
4010052|Cyclocephala magdalenae Young and Le Tirant new species is described from Huila Division, Colombia. The holotype is illustrated. Parameres of Cyclocephala magdalenae and its most similar congener Cyclocephala sexpunctata Castlenau are illustrated and a diagnosis is given to separate these two species.
4008865|Records are given for beetles new to the fauna of the Galapagos Islands. Reported for the first time are the families Haliplidae (Haliplus sp.), Eucnemidae (Fornax sp.), Jacobsoniidae (Derolathrus sp.), Biphyllidae (Anobocoelus sp.), Bothrideridae (Sosylus sp.), Melandryidae (= Scraptiidae) (Naucles spp.) and Anthicidae (Anthicus pallidus, Omonadus floralis, Sapintus sp.). First records are given for genera in Hydrophilidae (Dactylosternum abdominale and D. sp., Omicrus sp., Aculomicrus sp., Cycrillum strigicolle), Lyctidae (Minthea rugicollis, Trogloxylon parallelopipedum), Bostrichidae (Dinoderus minutus), Cleridae (Tarsostenus univittatus), Nitidulidae (Carpophilus dimidiatus, Urophorus humeralis, Brachypeplus sp.), Cucujidae (Silvanus sp., Monanus coccinulus), Languriidae (Cryptophilus sp.), Corylophidae (Molamba sp.,? Corylophodes sp.), Coccinellidae (Pentilia sp.), Endomychidae (Coluocera maderae), Colydiidae (Synchita sp.), Mycetophagidae (Typhaea stercorea) and Chrysomelidae (Myochrous sp.). New records in previously known genera are Piestus pygmaeus (Staphylinidae), Trogoderma sp. 2 (Dermestidae), Lyctus sp. (Lyctidae), Cryptolestes sp. (Cucujidae), and Hapalips sp. 2 (Languriidae). The Galapagos beetle fauna is now known to contain 59 families, 238 genera, and 411 species.
4009078| The Typhlocharis gomezi group (Coleoptera: Caraboidea: Trechidae), which includes T. gomezi Zaballos and two new species, T. wrasei and T. hiekei, is defined from western Spain (Extremadura). The study provides diagnostic characters of each species, a key for their identification and descriptions of the new species. The morphology of the group is discussed. Two types of evolutionary tendencies are assumed to have occurred in its development. /// Se define el grupo Typhlocharis gomezi (Coleoptera: Caraboidea: Trechidae), que incluye a T. gomezi Zaballos y a dos nuevas especies, T. wrasei y T. hiekei, procedentes de Extremadura (Espaa). El estudio proporciona las caractersticas diagnsticas de cada especie del grupo, una clave para su identificacin y descripciones de las dos nuevas especies. Se discuten adems las dos posibles tendencias evolutivas responsables de la morfologa del gnero. 
4009902| Nuclear magnetic resonance microscopy was used to observe the internal structure of male and female carrion rolling scarab Canthon cyanellus cyanellus adults. Images were produced with a NMR microscope built at the University of Orsay, France. The NMR microscope operated at 360 MHz and produced images of live insects with an in-plan resolution of 30 m  30 m from a slice 125 m thick. NMR images of horizontal slices through head, thorax, and abdomen of males and females of different ages and physiological stages were obtained. Internal organs such as reproductive organs, gut, fat body, and pygidial glands were clearly observed in both sexes; ova at different stages and aedeagus were identified in females and males, respectively. Pygidial glands in both sexes and ova and fat body in females seem to be good indicators of the reproductive condition of the beetles. These results show the potential of NMR microscopy as a non-invasive method to study the relationships between the internal morphology, behavior, and physiological status of live beetles. 
3999518|Overwintering adults of Boros unicolor Say were collected in Scioto County, Ohio in March and April, 1968 and March, 1969 under bark of dead pitch pine, Pinus rigida. Associates were Alobates barbata (Knoch) and Idiobates castaneus (Knoch). This is the first published record of B. unicolor in Ohio, and it is illustrated for the first time.
4543029|Synolabus Jekel, traditionally treated as a subgenus of Attelabus Linnaeus is shown to deserve full generic status. It is restricted to North America and it is closely related to other American genera of the Euscelini. Attelabus and Phialodes Roelofs form the tribe Attelabini sensu stricto which is palearctic in distribution. The Attelabini s.s. are together with the Pilolabini the most basal tribes of the Attelabinae. Characters of the mouthparts, the prosternum and the female genitals are illustrated and discussed to substantiate the taxonomic decisions.
3999956|Biological and distributional data are presented for certain species in some genera of Buprestidae (Glyptoscelimorpha, Hippomelas, Actenodes, Acmaeoderoides, Agrilus) and Cerambycidae (Crossidius).
3999562|Eight years of collection and host plant data are presented for 54 species of the tribe Lepturini. These records are from: Moosehead Lake, Maine; Durham, New Hampshire; and Fall River, Massachusetts.
4008185|The weevil Rhynchus apiculatus (Gyllenhal) has been reared from wax myrtle Myrica cerifera Loisel. from coastal South Carolina. The larva and pupa are described and illustrated, and biological notes are presented.
4009307|Females of Copris incertus, a coprophagous beetle which inhabits pastures in Veracruz, Mexico, were studied. Analysis of morphological variations apparent in the ovary, in the corpus allatum and in the type A neurosecretory cells of the pars intercerebralis, revealed that each major behavioral phase brings with it physiological activity characteristic of the organs studied. The ovary is immature at the time of beetle emergence; the corpus allatum and the pars intercerebralis are inactive. Then, during the prenesting period, the ovary matures and the endocrine and neuroendocrine centers commence activity. In the reproductive period, ovarian activity as well as that of the endocrine and neuroendocrine centers is cyclical: these areas are active during nest building construction and are inactive during nest care. During each nest care phase, reabsorption of the basal oocyte is linked to inactivity in the corpus allatum and the A cells of the pars intercerebralis; this physiological changes are similar to that observed in other species of insects which perform nest care.
40983311|The black-winged firefly, Luciola cerata Olivier, is endemic to Taiwan and is the most common firefly on the island. Males flash spontaneously and females respond with bioluminescent flashes at fixed response delays. In order to explore the potential for sexual selection in L. cerata, we surveyed males at 12 sites in Taiwan. We measured variation in male morphological characteristics and mated males to females. Male flash behavior and mating success was quantified under a variety of experimental sex ratios in the lab. We found there are two male morphs of this species, which are distinguishable only by the morphology of the lantern. One morph has a pentagonal second light segment, while the other has a semi-oval second light segment and only produces a flash with the first lantern segment. Besides this difference in morphology, the flash patterns and mating behavior also differ between these two morphs. Males with a pentagonal segment have a faster flashing rate than those with a semi-oval segment and are considered more attractive to females in groups with male-biased sex ratios. Furthermore, females that mate with the pentagonal-segment morph demonstrate greater fecundity than those that mate with the semi-oval-segment morph.
3999516|Unamis giuliagnii n.sp. is described from the edge of ice fields at 11,300 ft. elevation, near Finger Lake, Inyo Co., California. The species is illustrated and a key is provided to distinguish it from the 4 previously known species.
4009286|We detect a common pattern of disjunct distributions of closely related cave or endogean and alpine populations of ground beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae). This pattern is illustrated with examples from published and unpublished sources from western Europe, northern Africa and central Asia. Many alpine populations have morphological characters similar to those typical of cave or endogean species, and specimens are usually found in sheltered microhabitats, where they may avoid the low humidity and extreme temperatures of alpine environments. We postulate that these factors are similar on the surface in the alpine zone and in subterranean habitats at lower altitude. This may favor the presence of beetles in both habitats, even if they are disconnected and result in disjunct populations. The different degree of morphological divergence between the alpine and subterranean populations (ranging from not appreciable differences to forms considered to be fully separated species) can be taken as a relative indication of the antiquity of their separation. Divergence of alpine populations and their cave or endogean counterparts seems to have occurred at an earlier time in more southern and more recently in the more northern areas of Eurasia.
29739217|The bess beetle, Odontotaenius disjunctus (Illiger), is a large subsocial beetle that inhabits decaying logs in which adults build tunnel systems and raise their larvae. Adults are territorial and both males and females protect tunnels from intruders. Through the behavior of many passalid beetle species, including O. disjunctus, has been studied, adult behavior toward conspecifics has not been thoroughly documented and many interactive behaviors have yet to be defined. We describe behaviors exhibited during laboratory interactions between non-cohabitating O. disjunctus adults. Twenty-four O. disjunctus were each tested in two experimental trials, once as a resident and once as an intruder, and in one control trial. We observed 18 behavior patterns and monitored them during trials. There were significant differences between control and experimental trials in some aggression behaviors, and in the total frequency of aggression, but no significant differences in submission, investigation, and neutral behaviors. Our data expand the behavioral repertoire for this species. Adults may use the described mild aggression behaviors in a territorial context, but we found no significant difference in total frequency of mild aggression between residents and intruders.
4009734|A key to 19 species of the Curculio sikkimensis (Heller) group of Curculio from China is provided with descriptions of the following new taxa: Curculio brevidens new species, Curculio bullabrevis new species, Curculio careoparvus new species, Curculio dijoui new species, Curculio hobbsi new species, Curculio lyali new species, Curculio megadens new species, Curculio mullai new species, Curculio nigra new species, Curculio pascoei new species, Curculio penteri new species, Curculio songi new species, Curculio wangi new species, Curculio zangi new species. Brief reviews are provided for Curculio c-album Fabricius, Curculio hippophes Zhang, Curculio hsifanus (Heller) Curculio pylzovi (Smirnov), and Curculio sikkimensis (Heller). Types are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, Academia Sinica, Beijing, China, The Natural History Museum, London, United Kingdom and the California Academia of Sciences, San Francisco, California, U.S.A.
4009595|A new tribe of Hybosorinae, the Cryptogeniini, is proposed for the genera Cryptogenius Westwood and Callosides Howden. A new species, Callosides genieri, is described from Ecuador and a key to the species in Callosides is included.
41413649|Staphylinid beetles were collected from May to December 2007 using several different sampling methods at three sites in Los Mrmoles National Park, Hidalgo, Mexico. Two sampling sites were in pine-oak forest and one was in oak forest. In addition, records were included from less structured occasional collecting at other sites in the park. A total of 2,680 specimens belonging to 111 species, representing 91.7% of the 121 species currently known in Hidalgo state, were collected. The highest number of species and specimens were recorded at Las Trancas (Zimapn), followed by Minas Viejas and La Encarnacin. These were the three sites where systematic collections were made, using a wide variety of methods. The highest number of staphylinid species was recorded in sifted leaf litter, followed by dung traps and carrion traps. The present contribution can help to identify the taxa inhabiting this protected natural area and aid in understanding the importance of continuing to conserve them. Se colectaron estafilnidos de Mayo a Diciembre de 2007 utilizando diferentes tipos de muestreo en dos sitios con bosque de pino-encino y uno con bosque de encino del Parque Nacional Los Mrmoles, Hidalgo, Mxico. Adems, se incluyeron registros de colectas ocasionales en otras localidades del parque. Se colectaron 2,680 ejemplares de 111 especies que representan el 91.7% de las 121 especies conocidas para Hidalgo. En la localidad de Las Trancas (Zimapn) se registr el mayor nmero de especies y de ejemplares, seguido de Minas Viejas y La Encarnacin, debido a que fueron los sitios donde se aplic un mayor esfuerzo de muestreo. El mayor nmero de especies se registr en hojarasca cernida, seguido de coprotrampas y necrotrampas. Esta contribucin ayuda a conocer los taxones que existen en esta rea natural protegida y a comprender la importancia de por qu se debe seguir preservando.
4009842|Bryothinusa hauseri new species (Type Locality; Malaysia, Malay Peninsula, 40 mi N of Kuala Dungan) from Malaysia is described and illustrations of habitus and structural features are provided to distinguish it from other species of Bryothinusa. The systematic placement of B. hauseri within Bryothinusa and the systematic limits of Bryothinusa are discussed. The world distribution of the genus is outlined and a map showing the distribution of known species is provided. An annotated catalog of the known species of Bryothinusa is provided.
4008529|Agathidium aristerium, new species (Coleoptera: Leiodidae), is described from upstate New York and reported to feed on the plasmodial stage of the slime mold Physarum polycephalum Schweinitz (Myxomycetes: Physarales) which in turn grows over the surface of the fleshy oyster mushroom Pleurotus ostreatus Fries (Basidiomycetes: Tricholomataceae). Coleoptera associated with Physarum are briefly reviewed, but this is only the second report of a predator of a plasmodium associated with a higher basidiomycete. Possible significance of this beetle/slime mold/fungus association is discussed.
3999392| Neotropical dryopoids I. Xenelmis laura, a new species from Brazil (Coleoptera, Elmidae). Coleop. Bull. This species, described from the Rio Bananal, near Agua Azul in the state of Par, differs from other known species is being wingless, in having apical tufts of setae on the middle and hind tibiae, and in having rows of hairs on the ventral surfaces of the basal four segments of all tarsi. In the distribution of pronotal granules it is intermediate between the X. bufo and X. micros species-groups. A key is included to all known species of Xenelmis. 
4008049|The carabid Pentacomia egregia has univoltine development as an adaptation to the seasonal water level changes in its habitat, the Amazonian inundation forest. During the forest submersion phase the imagines live in a state of gonad dormancy on tree trunks and in the canopy. About one month before the end of the submersion phase the males attain their maturity. They copulate with the females which are immature at that time. The gonad maturity of the females is only accomplished at the beginning of the forest emersion phase. Then they come to the ground for egg deposition. About the end of the emersion phase the young beetles hatch. Specimens of the parental generation do not survive longer than one reproduction period.
3999989|Apion pterocarpi (Bagaces, Guanacaste Prov., Costa Rica; fruits of Pterocarpus rohrii Vahl), A. pepperi (Mexico, indefinite locality; fruits of P. orbicularis DC), and A. cartwrighti (Turrialba, Cartago Prov., Costa Rica; host plant not known) are described as new, classified, keyed, and illustrated. These 3 species form a compact unit most closely related to A. latipes Sharp, in the annulatum group of the subgenus Coelocephalapion.
4000076|The Mexican and Central American species of the lamiine genus Colobothea are reviewed. The known species are characterized and distribution given. Four new species are described: Colobothea sinaloensis (Mexico); C. rincona (Costa Rica); C. chemsaki (Mexico to Costa Rica); and C. hondurena (Honduras). C. fasciatipennis Linsley is given full species status. A key to the Mexican and Central American species of the genus is provided.
3999672| Trend curves of the rate of species description are presented for some families of Coleoptera, and a resum curve is given for 36% of the North American beetles described to 1970. There is a discussion of the characteristics of trend curves and the methods used in this paper. For each trend curve the years for approximate end-point of species description are given with an estimate of the final total number of species. The resume curve allows an estimate of the final total number of described species for North America (27,400). 
4009281| Canthonella amazonica and C. leptoculata, new species of canthonine dung beetles, are described from Brazil's central Amazon region. A new key to the eight species that occur in South America is provided. /// Duas novas espcies de besouros vira-bosta do Brasil e Regio Amaznica, Canthonella amazonica e C. leptoculata, so descritos. Uma nova chave para oito espcies de Canthonella que ocorrem na Amrica do Sul  apresentada. 
3999561| Records of the 2 U.S. species, Elsianus moestus (Horn) and E. texanus Schaeffer, are cited from Arizona, Texas, New Mexico, and Coahuila, Mexico. E. shoemakei n. sp. is described from Del Rio, Texas (type locality) and El Cario (25 mi. west of Monclova), Coahuila, Mexico. It is smaller than any species known from Mexico or the United States (3.1-3.8 mm long and 1.2-1.5 mm wide), possesses unique genitalia, and differs in other details from previously known species. It seems closest to E. striatus Sharp. 
4009629| Glaresis thiniensis new species is described from material collected at light in littoral sand dunes from eastern Iberian Peninsula. A new record of the other known Iberian species of Glaresis Erichson, G. hispana (Bguena), is provided. Diagnostic characters of both species include the presence/absence of mesotibial fossa in the metasternum, the form of the clypeus and meso- and metatibia, the number and size of teeth on the metatrochanter and femora and the form of male genitalia. These characters and others as the form of mandibles, length of metatarsomers, and the form of outer horseshoe-shaped portion of metatibia can be used to separate G. thiniensis from the North African species: G. mandibularis Petrovitz, G. tripolitana Petrovitz, G. carthagensis Petrovitz, G. pardoi Petrovitz and G. mauritanica Petrovitz. A map with the known distribution of the Iberian species is also provided. 
4008911|Observations of courtship and copulation behavior suggest that secondary sexual modifications of the sculpturing of the front legs, the ventral bristles, and the overall leg length of male Macrodactylus may function as courtship devices prior to and during copulation.
3999792|The present distribution in California is discussed for 4 introduced species of Conoderus, the larvae of which are destructive pests of vegetable crops in other areas.
3999767|Four cerambycid beetles are recorded as having their northern records in a 3 county area on the southeastern Virginia coast; 2 in Fairfax Co.; and 2 in the coastal plain of Maryland.
4009656|A new species of water beetle, Gymnochthebius ischigualasto, is described from Ischigualasto Park, San Juan Province, Argentina. The new species is compared to related members of the genus, and the aedeagus of the holotype is illustrated. The aedeagus of the holotype of G. reticulatus (Orchymont), a related species, is also illustrated.
4008341|The New World species of Peplomicrus Bernhauer are briefly redescribed and a new key is presented, together with scanning electron photomicrographs, to assist in identifying the species. One new species, P. watrousi, is described from Peru. The distribution of all known New World species is plotted on outline maps.
4007920|The relationship of Eupompha wenzeli to other Eupompha has been problematic. The discovery of its first instar larva reinforces its earlier tentative placement near E. fissiceps, E. schwarzi, and E. histrionica. Sexual behavior of E. wenzeli is also described but is of little taxonomic utility due to its inelaborate nature.
27571080|Annual monitoring surveys for the endangered American burying beetle, Nicrophorus americanus Olivier, have been conducted in south central South Dakota since 1995. The population has been stable in abundance and distribution. Two mark and recapture surveys were conducted in June and August, 2005 in southern Tripp County, South Dakota, U.S.A. Using baited pitfall traps, we captured and marked 168 specimens of N. americanus during 410 trap-nights in June. In August, 323 specimens were captured and marked in 450 trap-nights. We estimated the population size of N. americanus in an area of approximately 220 km2. Estimates were obtained using a family of models (program CAPTURE) that incorporate several sources of variability in probability of capture. The June population estimate (1 SE) was 442  73 and a 95% confidence interval of 333-624 adults. The August population estimate (1 SE) was 901  117 with a 95% confidence interval of 714-1,177 tenerals and adults combined.
4009318|A firefly, Pleotomodes needhami Green, lives in the nests of two, possibly three, species of ants. These ants are the fungus-growing Trachymrmex septentrionalis (McCook), the carnivorous Odontomachus clarus (Roger), and perhaps a Dorymyrmex sp. All known specimens of P. needhami have been collected on the grounds of the Archbold Biological Station, Highlands County, Florida. Larvae, pupae, and adults of both sexes were excavated from the brood-queen-fungal chambers of T. septentrionalis. Ants appeared to ignore the fireflies, and the fireflies were not seen to feed on ants or their brood. Larvae in captivity consumed snails on the soil surface at night and a single larva was captured on the surface in the field. Pupation begins in late March and the earliest collections of adults took place in the first half of April. Neotenous females emerge from ant colonies soon after dark and emit light while waiting near the nest entrance. Males luminesce in the presence of females. Larvae also produce light, both on the surface and underground in ant colonies.
4008333|Trox (Trox) necopinus is described from north-western Zambia. The male holotype and its genitalia are illustrated.
4009492| Granuleubria fontana, new species, from North Vietnam is described together with its larval stages and pupa. Larval and adult morphology strongly indicate that Granuleubria Jch and Lee is closely related to Ectopria LeConte. In addition, three new species are described: G. minuta (E. Malaysia), G. satoi (Thailand), and G. nigra (India). The male of G. marginata (Pic) (India) is described and one additional population of probably G. pakistanica from Nepal was found. 
4009966|The third-instar larvae of Megasoma sleeperi Hardy are illustrated and described based upon three larval specimens. The larvae were hatched in captivity from eggs obtained from adult females collected near Glamis, Imperial Co., California, USA, in mid-September 2003. Their structure is compared with that of Megasoma occidentalis Bolivar y Pieltain et al. and Megasoma cedrosa Hardy in order to find species-level characters. A description of the adult male is included, based upon the examination of three males.
4009705|Allaeotes niger, new species, is described from China and compared with A. griseus Pascoe, 1885 from Indonesia. The relationship between the genus Allaeotes Pascoe and Synommatus Wollaston is discussed. All type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
3999951|The 4 North American species of Ptosima--P. gibbicollis (Say), P. laeta Waterhouse, P. idolynae Frost, and P. walshii LeConte--are redescribed, figured, and keyed. P. schaefferi Chamberlin is synonymized with P. laeta Waterhouse. New geographical distribution and host records are given.
4009715|A new genus Paraminotella and a new species from Nepal, P. nigrita, are described. A key and illustrations of these taxa are provided. Variability of the median lobe of P. nepalensis is illustrated.
40389453|The adult female, larva, and pupa of Strategus fascinus Burmeister (Scarabaeidae: Dynastinae: Oryctini) are described for the first time based on specimens from Colombia. A key to the known third-stage larvae of Strategus species is included. The biology and distribution of S. fascinus, are discussed. /// Se describe por primera vez la hembra adulta, larva, y pupa de Strategus fascinus Burmeister (Scarabaeidae: Dynastinae: Oryctini) por medio de examinar especmenes de Colombia. Se proporciona una clave para las larvas de tercer estado del gnero Strategus, as como datos de la biologa y distributin de S. fascinus en Colombia.
4009631|Using a mobile crane system covering a canopy area of about 1.4 ha in a rain forest in southern Venezuela, adults of several species of Agra Fabricius were observed and captured. Adults of 17 species were kept in the laboratory. Movements and foraging behaviour in the forest canopy and in the laboratory are reported. Larvae of four Agra species are described. Larvae of all four species are highly modified. Short antennae, multiple setae FR8/9, elongate head capsule with enlarged frontale, trochanter and femoral spines or spin-like tubercles, absence of a lacinia, markedly long, multisetose and multisegmented urogomphi, a pygopod with two groups of hooks, as well as bifid-toothed tarsal claws are larval apomorphies of Agra. The enlarged pulvillus is shared with larvae of other genera in Lebiini that are regarded as related to Agra based on adult characters. Amongst themselves studied larvae show a number of differences. The larva of the Agra cajennensis-group has small abdominal egg bursters on terga I-VIII that were previously known only from coleopteran suborder Polyphaga; these are not present in the other first instars studied. From larval attributes, it is hypothesized that Agra larvae live under bark and are predatory.
3999949|Brachylacon (Brachylacon) beardsleyi, new species, is described from Oahu, Hawaii. This is the first report of the genus from Hawaii.
4000016|The use of the trend curve technique by Erwin, Frank and Curtis, and O'Brien and Wibmer offers examples of how trend curves should not be used. Trend curves should be used to provide an estimate of final species totals when descriptive work is well advanced and continuing.
3999818|Lectotypes are designated for the following species of North American Pityophthorus: annectans LeConte, atratulus (LeConte), bassetti Blackman, blandulus Schedl, cacuminatus Blandford, confinis LeConte, confusus Blandford, consimilis LeConte, deletus LeConte, digestus (LeConte), diglyphus Blandford, glabratulus (Schedl) (new combination), guatemalensis Blandford, hirticeps LeConte, liquidambaris Blackman, natalis Blackman, nigricans Blandford, nitidulus (Mannerheim), nocturnus Schedl, obtusipennis Blandford, occidentalis Blackman, pellitus Schedl, politus (Blandford) (now in Araptus), pulicarius (Zimmermann), pullus (Zimmermann), puncticollis (LeConte), scabridus Schedl, schwerdtfegeri (Schedl), scriptor Blackman, and subsimilis Schedl.
4008084|The genus Phalacrichus Sharp is more completely characterized and Limnichalia Casey is placed in synonymy with it. Two species described by Pic are transferred to the genus and eight new species are described. The new species are Phalacrichus rudis, P. latus, P. spangleri, P. durus, P. simplex, P. golbachi, P. punctatus, and P. diligens. A key to the species is included and the male genitalia are illustrated.
4009606|The new genus and species Margaritabruchus cherylae Romero and Johnson is described. It is distinct from other genera of bruchids because the ventral surface of the narrow hind femur is not in a gentle, convex curve. It is usually concave before and after an expansion near the middle that ends in a large, blunt, lateral spine about 0.66 from the base of the femur of both sexes. The hind femur of males has a hook-like spine on the lateral margin slightly beyond the blunt spine that is curved toward the base of the femur. The affinities of the genus are with other Acanthoscelidini and it is probably most closely related to Meibomeus and certainly to the very large New World genus, Acanthoscelides Schilsky. Margaritabruchus cherylae feeds in seeds of Indigofera densiflora M. Martens and Galeotti.
4009649| The third instar larva, pupa, and eggs of Yingaresca holosericea (Bowditch) are described and illustrated. Biological notes providing life history data including feeding habits on its host Cordia monsperma (Jacq.) R. & S. (Boraginaceae), adult egg-laying capacity, larval behavior and some adult behaviors, as well as data on parasitism are presented. Similarities between this species and Ophraella conferta (LeConte), Walterianella bucki Bechyn and Alagoasa Bechyn species are discussed. 
4008299|Three species in two genera are recognized for the family Byturidae in Europe: Byturus tomentosus (De Geer), B. ochraceus (Scriba), and Xerasia meschniggi (Reitter). The following names are placed in new synonymy: Satorystia Reitter and Byturellus Barber as synonyms of Xerasia Lewis; Byturus olivaceus Fournel and Horticola urbana Lindemann as synonyms of B. tomentosus; and B. fumatus var. bicolor Reitter and B. aestivus var. fleischeri Plavilstshikov as synonyms of B. ochraceus. All species are described and illustrated, and their distributions and relationships are discussed; a diagnostic key is also provided. The life-history and ecology of B. tomentosus and B. ochraceus are compared.
4008074|Goiginus howdeni new genus, new species, of Aphodiinae is described from Natal, South Africa. Two new species of Aphodius, (Koshantschikovius) peckorum from Natal, South Africa, and (Emadiellus) fentoni from Salisbury, Zimbabwe (Rhodesia), are described and illustrated.
4009614| The larva of Babalimnichus masamii M. Sat is described. This larva is the first record of the genus and subfamily Thaumastodinae, and is quite easily distinguished from the previously known limnichid larvae in having the mandibular basal process setose. 
4008631|Migneauxia orientalis Reitter 1877, an oriental species, is recorded for the first time from southern United States and northern Mexico. A brief description, illustrations and known geographic distribution in North America are provided.
4008315|Four new species of Acmaeodera, A. hondurensis, A. aguanyoro, A. culucoensis, and A. loei, from Honduras, Central America, are described and illustrated. Specimens were collected from the arid regions of the upper Aguan Valley and from the Comayagua Valley. Notes are included on other Central American species and a key is provided for Acmaeodera of Honduras and adjacent regions.
4009390|The egg stage and oviposition behavior of 15 species of Entimini (Curculionidae: Entiminae) are described. Eggs are illustrated and compared with those of related tribes Sitonini and Alophini. Scanning electron micrographs of the chorion of eight species in these three tribes are provided. The morphological diversity of the chorion is evaluated in weevils as a source of phylogenetic and ecological information.
4009358|An experimental study was carried out regarding the foods effects of high nutritional quality but different origin (beef and fish) on the male and female gonadal maturation of Canthon cyanellus cyanellus LeConte (Coleoptera Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae). Although the fish was higher in protein, vitellogenesis was altered in females that ingested it: oocyte maturation and oviposition were delayed, mature basal oocyte size was smaller, and fewer eggs were laid. In males that ingested fish, testicular follicle growth diminished, as did the amount of secretions produced by the accessory glands; however, spermatogenesis and spermatophore formation take place. This suggests that this species cannot use fish to the same extent as other meat for synthesis of specific proteins of yolk and accessory gland secretions.
4009497|Flight by the forked fungus beetle, Bolitotherus cornutus (Panzer), during captivity, was observed on three occasions between July and August 1995. The observations reported here represent the only record of flight for the species. Most studies in the past have found that movement by these beetles is limited, despite that they have well developed wings, and that they live in an ephemeral and patchy habitat.
4009234|The annamensis species group of the genus Polyphylla Harris is redefined; it includes two east Asian species, P. dahnshuensis new species, from Taiwan, and P. annamensis Fleutiaux. Both species are described, illustrated and compared. The female of P. dahnshuensis is described for the first time. A hypothesis on the divergence of the annamensis species group is presented.
4008635|In northern Florida, Lebia viridis Say is found in association with the chrysomelid, Altica foliacea LeConte, larvae and adults of which feed on Evening Primrose (Oenothera spp.). Field observations from September 1987 through July 1988 indicate that L. viridis is a spring breeder and that the larvae are ectoparasitoids of A. foliacea pupae. Rearing of L. viridis in the laboratory on A. foliacea reveals three instars (two larval, one pupal) which are similar to the three instars of previously described Lebia spp. All instars of L. viridis are described and illustrated. Laboratory reared teneral adults are metallic blue in color and gradually change color to metallic green as they mature. Differences in structure and development distinguish larvae of L. (Lebia) viridis from those of L. (Lebia) scapularis Fourcroy larvae.
4008976|Tiger beetle mandibles were examined to determine sexual dimorphism in their size and tooth arrangement. Male tiger beetles, while generally smaller than females, have mandibles that are nearly the same size as the female mandibles. Three general types of sexual dimorphism in the arrangement and size of the incisors are described. In the least obvious type both sexes have incisors the same shape and arrangement with the female incisors slightly more robust. A second type of dimorphism has the female with a second incisor larger than the other incisors while the male's second incisor is smaller than the other incisors. The third dimorphism shows the male with a greatly reduced and feeble second incisor as compared to the female.
4009852|The purpose of the experiments presented in this paper was to investigate methods for rearing larvae and pupae of the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel, on rice plants in a laboratory in the absence of mud. Rearing containers were developed in which larvae were reared in a layer of rice roots in water. When mating pairs of adult weevils were used to infest plants, these methods were sufficient to rear weevils from eclosion of eggs to the final instar. When neonates were used to infest rice seedlings in the rearing containers, over 40% of the infesting larvae in two repetitions developed to the 3rd or 4th instar; this rate of survival was not significantly different than survival rates of larvae reared in mud. When 3rd instars were individually reared in water in test tubes with rice plants, 55.0% of the insects were alive and developing normally on the 15th day after infestation. Other experiments demonstrated that late-instar larvae and pupae of the rice water weevil may be reared in vermiculite rather than in mud. The experimental results suggest that the methods introduced in this paper for rearing the rice water weevil in water and vermiculite are appropriate for the production of test insects for a variety of experiments in the laboratory.
4009011|The validity of the Scymnus subgenus Parapullus Yang (1978) is discussed and a revised key is provided to the Palaearctic species. Scymnus (Parapullus) alishanensis, new species, is described from Taiwan, China.
4009152|Besuchetiella sumatrana, new species, is described from leaf-litter samples from Sumatra and is compared with B. mirabilis Osella from Malaysia. The assignment of the new species to Besuchetiella Osella is uncertain and the erection of a separate genus may become necessary later. Characters are discussed as they relate to phylogeny. The position of Besuchetiella Osella among genera of Stromboscerini (Rhynchophoridae) is reconsidered.
40389467|The life history of "Pericoptus truncatus" (Fabr.) from New Zealand is reviewed, and a modern description of the third instar is provided. Larvae of P. truncatus live just beyond oceanic high tide under and within well anchored driftwood and beneath beach sand, where they feed on rotting wood or plant roots. The larvae are remarkable for their large, spatulate claws, which aid them in traveling through the sand as well as on the surface during nocturnal surface migrations between the backshore and the foredune area, presumably to feed on plant roots and find sand with water content high enough to allay desiccation.
4008303|Elmoparnus jordanorum, new species, is described, illustrated with pen and ink drawings and scanning electron micrographs; a key is provided to the eight species presently described in the genus. Notes on collecting methods, habitat, and the aquatic beetles collected with this new species are included.
4009850|The ground beetle (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Caelostomini) Stegazopteryx ivimkaensis new genus and species, is described from Ivimka Research Station, New Guinea. Its highly modified elytral form separates this species from all others in the tribe. Only Diachipteryx Straneo from Africa has somewhat similarly modified elytra.
4009929|The southern Brazilian genus Hoplopygothrix is reviewed. The genus now contains only one species, H. atropurpurea (Schaum). Hoplopygothrix atropurpurea nigroscutellaris (Moser) and H. fulvohirta (Moser) are placed in synonymy with H. atropurpurea.
3999747|A new species, Oxyporus lawrencei, is described from the Distrito Federal, Mexico. Oxyporus elegans Leconte is considered a valid species, distinct from O. femoralis Gravenhorst based on a study of the male genitalia.
4008936|Microacmaeodera (Squamicroacmaeodera) macgregori is described from Luzon, Philippines, illustrated and contrasted with its congeners in both a table and a key.
4542976|In their natural habitat in central Mexico, adult Diabrotica porracea Harold (Chrysomelidae: Galerucinae) feed exclusively within the trenches cut by Epilachna tredecimnotata (Latreille) (Coccinellidae) on green, turgent leaves of their common host Cucurbita okeechobeensis ssp. martinezii L. Bailey. In laboratory experiments, we observed that adult E. tredecimnotata cut their characteristic trenches into turgent leaves of this plant. Furthermore, D. porracea beetles only fed inside trenched circles or on leaves without turgor pressure. No sap flow was detected in wilted leaves or leaves without turgor pressure. The phloem sap emanating from cut leaf veins is sticky and chrystalizes quickly. Due to its hardening on the insects mouthparts it impedes further feeding. Our results support the hypothesis that herbivorous insects on Cucurbitaceae avoid feeding on turgent leaves due to the sticky phloem sap. The opportunistic feeding behavior of D. porracea is discussed in the context of the coexistance of both beetle species on the same plant.
4007979|Adults and larvae of the lady beetle Neoharmonia venusta (Melsheimer) are major predators of larvae and pupae of the willow leaf beetle Plagiodera versicolora (Laicharteg) in the mid-Atlantic region of the United States. This is the first specialized coccinellid-chrysomelid predator-prey association for the New World. The prey larvae produce complex exocrine secretions that fail to repel the predator. Because this is a specialized association, the possibility of an unidentified, active chemical attraction of the predator to the prey or host plant suggests that the predator could be manipulated for use in pest management programs.
4007922|The Anthribidae cited in Lee's 1971 list of Malawi forest insects are reviewed, corrected, and diagnosed. Additional literature records and specimens are cited. Nine genera and thirteen species are now recorded from Malawi.
4008292| Antilliscaris Bnninger is a group of four montane species of carabid beetles with flightless adults, endemic to Puerto Rico and Hispaniola in the West Indies. The first known larvae of Antilliscaris, a first instar of A. prob. megacephalus (Hlavac) and a second instar of A. prob. mutchleri (Bnninger), are described. An analysis of larval characters aligns Antilliscaris with genera of the Afrotropical Region. Based upon larval morphology, Antilliscaris should be provisionally given full generic rank and should not be treated as a subgenus of Scarites to which Antilliscaris is distantly related. 
4009324|Two species of Bruchidae, Amblycerus submaculatus (Pic) and Sennius bondari (Pic), are recorded for the first time preying upon the seeds of Senna alata (L.) Roxburgh (Caesalpinaceae). Biological aspects of these species in this host plant are presented. There is evidence that Horismenus sp. (Eulophidae) parasitize both bruchids. Specimens of Acylomus sp., a phalacrid beetle, were also found inside some seeds.
4008800|Eleven species of Oreodytes have been collected by the author in the Pacific Northwest. Distributional data, by state and county, are presented for each species. Habitat and biological notes are also given. New state records are: O. crassulus, Montana; O. picturatus, Montana; O. quadrimaculatus, Idaho and Montana. Additionally, significant range extensions within states are presented.
3999655|Type-localities are restricted to Guatemala, Sacatepequez: Capetillo for Platynus crossomerus (Chaudoir); Guatemala, Izabal: Quirigua for P. guatemalensis (Chaudoir); and Costa Rica, Puntarenas: 5-8 km. above Monteverde for P. melanocnemis (Chaudoir). Platynus crossomerus (Chaudoir 1878) is a junior name for P. procephalus (Bates 1878), a new synonymy.
4000070|Helleriella was erected as a monotypic genus by Champion in 1906 for the species longicollis from Mexico. Ecological and additional distributional data are given for Champion's species and it and three additional species are described: H. nelsoni from Mexico, H. rubricollis from Belize, and H. ruddiae from Costa Rica. A key is given to separate the species, the ecology of the association of larvae and adults with swollen-thorn acacias is described, and the characters and placement of the genus near Cylindrocopturus is discussed. H. ruddiae is suggested to be mimetic of ants of the genus Zacryptocerus, and the other species are considered for the possibility of mimicry.
4009383|Surveys conducted during 1992-1996 on the Cold Springs Ranger District of the Ouachita National Forest in west-central Arkansas resulted in the capture of 73 American burying beetles (ABB). Most ABB-positive traplines were concentrated along the northern boundary of the district. No ABBs were found in the southern one-half of the study area, and surveys south of the area in Arkansas have been ABB-negative. Trapping success within the ABB-inhabited area of the district was approximately 0.02 ABB/trapnight during studies conducted in 1994 and 1996, a figure that may represent a minimum viable population density for the species. Trapping success figures from elsewhere in the region are compared, and the known distribution of the ABB in Oklahoma and Arkansas is discussed.
3999873|Coleoptera associated with the common milkweed, Asclepias syriaca L., were collected daily for 90 consecutive days. Of the 132 species listed, 18 were considered to be common (50 or more collected) while the majority of species were considered temporary visitors. The host specific milkweed beetle, Tetraopes tetrophthalmus, was the most common beetle collected.
4000007|The introduced carabid Trechus discus Fabr. seems to be actively expanding its range to include much of the Great Lakes region, as documented by recent captures in 7 Michigan counties.
4009634| The genus Heterolinus Sharp, 1885 is revised, with generic redescription, description of a new species, a key to the species, remarks, illustrations, and a distributional map. Heterolinus distinctus Bernhauer, 1905 is a junior synonym of H. xanthogaster (Solsky 1875) new combination. Lectotypes are designated for Xantholinus puncticeps Gurin-Mneville, 1844 and Xantholinus xanthogaster Solsky, 1875. Heterolinus puncticeps is distributed in Colombia and Ecuador, H. xanthogaster in Peru and Bolivia, and H. basiniger new species in Costa Rica, Colombia and Ecuador. According to a cladistic analysis based on 47 transformation series from external morphology and male genitalia, Heterolinus is a monophyletic group, and is the sister group of Ehomalolinus plus Homalolinus. Heterolinus puncticeps is the sister species of H. xanthogaster and H. basiniger is the most plesiomorphic species of the genus. 
4009484|In the necrophagous beetle Canthon cyanellus cyanellus LeConte (Scarabaeinae subfamily), pars intercerebralis and corpus allatum activity of females was induced by male mesadene secretions. In untreated virgin females, and those receiving Ringer solution intra-abdominally, the pars intercerebralis and corpus allatum activity was low and no oocytes matured. In contrast, in inseminated females this neuroendocrine and endocrine activity were high and several oocytes matured, with eggs laid at 25 days after emergence. In virgin females receiving male mesadene secretions intra-abdominally, pars intercerebralis and corpus allatum activity was high but no oocyte had reached oviposition size at 25 days after emergence. For virgin females of this same age who received male mesadene secretions intra-abdominally, the neuroendocrine and endocrine activity was induced for a short period. For this induction to have continued, perhaps a greater quantity of male mesadene secretions were required, or perhaps other glandular secretions were required in addition. It is also possible that the experimentally introduced male secretions were transformed differently in the hemocoele than they would be in the vagina, which could reduce their effects on neuroendocrine and endocrine activity.
4009441|Dryoxylon, new genus, is described to accomodate Xyleborus onoharaensis Murayama, introduced into the eastern and southern United States and now established. The species is redescribed and illustrated, and a lectotype is designated. The new genus is placed in the tribe Dryocoetini and the key to the genera in this tribe is amended.
4009138|Graphognathus Buchanan is herein considered as a new synonym of Naupactus Dejean. The three species traditionally assigned to Graphognathus, N. leucoloma Boheman, N. peregrinus (Buchanan) and N. minor (Buchanan), plus two species previously described in Naupactus Dejean, N. albolateralis Hustache and N. tucumanensis Hustache are included in the N. leucoloma species group. The five species are native to South America, and the first three have been introduced in other latitudes becoming pests of agriculture. Although Naupactus leucoloma and N. peregrinus are parthenogenetic in most of their ranges, in Argentina and Paraguay there are some bisexual populations. This paper includes a description of the N. leucoloma species group, redescriptions of all its species, including males; one key for the identification of adults and another key to determine first instar larvae; illustrations of eggs, diagnostic characters of larvae, habitus and genitalia of adults of both sexes, and maps of distribution of the five species in South America.
4009446|Acmaeoderoides confusus Nelson, new species, is described from specimens previously included in a more broadly conceived A. verityi Nelson and Nelson's 1968 key is emended to include it. The latter is redefined and specific name endings of A. depressus Nelson, A. distinctus Nelson, and A. stramineus Nelson are emended to reflect the masculine generic name Acmaeoderoides Van Dyke. More biological information is included for A. humeralis (Cazier), A. stramineus Nelson, A. ferruginis Wellso & Nelson and the female of the last is described.
4009024|Actium trifoveatum Park is found to be the senior synonym of Actizona borealis Chandler, new synonymy, and is transferred to Actizona Chandler, new combination. This species is associated with rotten beech or birch logs in coniferous forests of boreal North America.
4008520|Forty-four species of cerambycid beetles were collected from the northern Chihuahuan Desert near Las Cruces, New Mexico, U.S.A., from a variety of host plants and habitats. Host plant records are included for the majority of the species. Dominant shrub species are apparently not utilized equally by the longhorned wood borers. For example, about 60 species of cerambycids are known to utilize mesquite, but only one species is known to breed in creosotebush. Some shrubs and trees may not be utilized by any longhorn beetles. It is probable that the relatively large longhorn beetle fauna of the southwestern deserts is essential to wood decomposition in these arid ecosystems.
4009769| The genus Acalymma Barber comprises 72 species widely distributed in America, mainly in the neotropical region. The taxonomy of this genus is in a confused state because of the superficial similarity of all species, which posses similar color patterns and elytral punctation. The significance of mouthpart characters for assessing phylogenetic relationships among subfamilies of Chrysomelidae, and especially the Alticinae and Galerucinae, has been noted by various authors. The present paper is a comparative morphological study of mouthparts based on 14 species of Acalymma. As a result of this study, the taxonomic value of the mouthparts for recognizing species is established. /// El gnero Acalymma comprende 72 especies ampliamente distribuidas en la regin neotropical. La taxonoma del gnero es confusa debido a la similitud superficial de las especies, las cuales poseen patrones de coloracin y puntuacin elitral similares. La importancia de los caracteres de las piezas bucales para describir taxa o establecer relaciones filogenticas entre subfamilias de Chrysomelidae, y especialmente referidas a los Alticine/Galerucine fueron estudiadas por varios autores. El presente trabajo es un estudio morfolgico comparado basado en 14 especies del gnero Acalymma. Como resultado de este trabajo se establece el valor taxonmico de las piezas bucales para reconocer especies. 
4008787|The correct spelling of the genus is Chaerodes (not Choerodes auct.). There are two species of Chaerodes, known only from New Zealand: C. trachyscelides White (with C. concolor Sharp and C. fuscatus Broun as synonyms) and C. laetus Broun. A key and figures to separate them are presented.
4008760| A new species of leaf beetles, Chlamisus mimosae (Chlamisinae), is described from Sto. Antonio de Padua, Rio de Janiero State, Brazil, collected on Mimosa pigra Linnaeus. The types series also includes specimens reared from the original collection sent to Australia for use as a biological control agent. The species has been evaluated, released, and established with some success in Australia and Thailand as a biological control agent for M. pigra. The species is closely related to C. sidae Monrs and C. aeronauticus Monrs. 
3999702|The 591 specimens captured represented 24 genera and 31 species. Some had never been previously collected in the study area.
4008447|During evaluations of mesquite insects from the Pacific dry coast of Ecuador a new species of Xenorhipis emerged from caged mesquite wood (Prosopis sp.) collected near Machala in the State of El Oro. The male and female are described, and a key to the males is provided.
3999947|A new species of Buprestidae, Isophaenus klapperichorum, is described from the Dominican Republic.
4008696|Head capsule width (HCW) and first thoracic spiracle length (FTSL) measurements were taken, to the nearest 0.01 mm, on each of 575 field-collected Plectrodera scalator (Fab.) larvae. SAS linear regression analysis showed a significant (P > 0.001) relationship between the HCW and FTSL values. The frequency distributions of each data set were divided into five separate instar designations, and means and growth ratios were calculated. HCW means were 1.84, 3.22, 4.40, and 5.36 mm while FTSL means were 0.29, 0.59, 0.94, and 1.27 mm. Growth ratios calculated for HCW were 1.75, 1.37, and 1.22 while FTSL ratios were 2.03, 1.59, and 1.35. It was assumed that no first instars occurred in the overwintering population sampled. Therefore, it was concluded that P. scalator has at least five instars.
4008600|Arianops sandersoni Barr, described from a single female collected in 1949, has been rediscovered on Magazine Mountain (Logan County), Arkansas, near the type locality. The male is described. Arianops stephani Carlton, new species, is described from specimens collected in Latimer County, Oklahoma. These two species are closely related to each other and to A. amplyoponica, which occurs in Pennsylvania. Three female specimens of Arianops collected on Pinnacle Mountain (Pulaski County), Arkansas, may represent another undescribed species in the A. amplyoponica species-group.
4009553|Four species of Anthonomini from western North America are assigned to the genus Magdalinops Dietz: M. vittipennis Dietz from California, the type species; M. knowltoni, new species, from Utah; M. falli, new species, from California, Nevada, Oregon and Wyoming; and M. alutaceus (Hatch), new combination, transferred from Epimechus Dietz, from British Columbia, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, North Dakota, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. The species of Magdalinops are distinguished by the shining, glabrous basal segment of the compact, ovoid antennal club and by narrowly separated mesocoxae. Adults of these species have been collected on plants in either Artemisia or Chrysothamnus (Asteraceae). Two species of Anthonomini, also from western North America, are assigned to Chelonychus Dietz: C. longipes Dietz, the type species, and C. stragulus (Fall), new combination, transferred from Epimechus. The species of Chelonychus are distinguished from other anthonomines by the long, slender, strongly flexed tarsal claws. Adults of one of the species have been collected on Artemesia ludoviciana Nutt. (Asteraceae). Shared possession of exceptionally long, slender tarsal claws by species of Chelonychus and some species of Magdalinops, and common association with Artemesia are indications that the two weevil genera are closely related.
4008480|Bellaltica is described as a new genus of Alticinae, with two new species, B. sarae and B. specula, both restricted to south-west Western Australia. The relationship of Bellaltica to other alticine genera and the problems of recognising phylogeny in the subfamily are briefly discussed.
4009448|The "beetle bar," a new type of rearing device, was constructed to improve behavioural studies on small hygrophilous beetles, in particular the feeding/drinking preferences of some Staphylinidae. This device allows the investigator to simultaneously tender two different beverages. Individuals can be observed at any time in dorsal and lateral views.
4009459| Cyclocephala pygidialis Joly, new species, from Venezuela is described and comparative redescriptions of C. hardyi Endrdi and C. castanea (Olivier) are presented. Diagnostic characters are illustrated, and full references for each species are given. /// Se describe Cyclocephala pygidialis, nueva especie, de Venezuela y se presentan redescripciones comparativas de C. hardyi Endrdi y C. castanea (Olivier). Se ilustran algunos de los caracteres diagnsticos y se incluyen las referencias completas de cada especie. 
4000048|Evidence is provided which indicates that the previously presumed aquatic larvae of Chelonarium spp. lack gills, are terrestrial, that larvae of numerous tropical species are associated with roots of at least 8 genera of plants in the Orchidaceae and 1 ephiphytic genus in the Rubiaceae, and that larvae may be myrmecophilous or termitophilous. The larva and pupa of Chelonarium sp. are described and illustrated and pupation sites are discussed. New distribution records for the only chelonariid known from the United States, Chelonarium lecontei Thomson, are given, and its presumed range and known localities are depicted on a map.
4009658|Microeubria acuta Lee and Yang, new species, collected from Borneo, is described. Larvae of Microeubria sp. from Laos are also described, which are characterized by the slender abdominal pleurites and reduction of the spiracle on the abdominal segment 8 and the spiracular brush on the abdominal segment 9. One additional specimen of M. jaechi Lee and Yang from Borneo was found.
27571110|Three instars of the tiger beetle Cosmodela batesi (Fleutiaux) are described and illustrated here for the first time. Differences between Cosmodela batesi and its allied Palearctic genera are discussed.
4009392|The female holotype of Bruchus indigoferae Gyllenhal was presumably collected in India from the seeds of Indigofera tinctoria L. We examined the holotype and because it had all the characters necessary to place it into the New World genus Acanthoscelides Schilsky and it resembled closely some New World species of Acanthoscelides, we put it into Acanthoscelides as a new combination. The holotype is described and the collection locality questioned. The bruchids that feed in New and Old World species of Indigofera L. are discussed. We suggest that researchers studying the bruchids of Indigofera verify the names of the insects.
4009626|Stenotarsus subtilis Arrow (not S. rotundus Arrow) is the aggregating endomychid beetle from Barro Colorado Island, Panama, subject of many studies on a diapausing aggregation. Allozyme analysis results (Nei genetic distance = 0.005) supported conclusions from morphological study, revealing the true identity of two diapause groups now known within the Barro Colorado Island Nature Monument. They have an the estimated aggregation density of 2.2 per km
4009869| The genera Trichillum Harold and Pedaridium Harold are primarily South American. The northernmost known distribution is Nicaragua. In this paper we describe Pedaridium maya new species from Mexico and Guatemala that does not appear to be closely related to any previously described species. /// Los gneros Trichillum Harold y Pedaridium Harold son primariamente suramericanos. Su lmite norte de distribucin se encuentra en Nicaragua. En este artculo describimos Pedaridium maya nueva especie de Mxico y Guatemala, que no parece ser prxima de ninguna especie previamente descrita. 
4007995|The family Trachypachidae includes two oligobasic genera: Holarctic Trachypachus Motschulsky and southern Neotropical Systolosoma Solier. Five hypotheses have been proposed about relationships of this group to adephagan families: 1, an archaic, ancestrally terrestrial, phylogenetically isolated tribe of Carabidae; 2, an independent family, ancestrally terrestrial, but related to Carabidae; 3, an independent family, ancestrally aquatic, and related more closely to the water beetle series of families, Hydradephaga; 4, an independent family of the group Isochaeta which is ancestrally terrestrial, and includes Hydradephaga as well as various groups of primitive carabids, and with the remaining carabids included in the Anisochaeta, the sister group of Isochaeta; 5, an independent family, ancestrally partially aquatic, including the Mesozoic fossil Eodromiinae, and ancestral to the Carabidae, the inclusive group being Carabomorpha, which is the sister group of the aquatic Dytiscomorpha and Haliplomorpha (collectively the Hydradephaga). Available evidence does not make possible rejection of any of these hypotheses. A concerted effort should be made to resolve this problem, thus not only clarifying relationships of trachypachids, but also making possible a phylogenetically sound classification of the suborder Adephaga.
4009101|The chromosome number and sex-chromosome mechanism are listed for 70 species of the family Carabidae of the Australian fauna. Male diploid numbers vary between 2n = 16 and 2n = 55 and the male sex-chromosome mechanisms are XO or XY. The chromosome number 2n = 37, corresponding to a meioformula n = 18 + X (which possibly represents the ancestral condition in the family) is present in 13 species including primitive and characteristically Australian groups such as the Pseudomorphinae. The data obtained in this work represent the first approach to the cytogenetics of Australian carabid beetles.
4009912| A stage-specific vertical life table of the aquatic beetle Berosus alternans Brull was constructed based on a laboratory study. Embryonic development time was estimated as 3.5 days. Eggs hatched between the 4th and 14th days after being laid. Females constructed, on average, 2.46 egg cases per day during 84 consecutive days. The first oviposition occurred on the 6th day after mating, extending until the 84thday. The mean durations of instars and stages were: egg, 6.12; L1, 4.93; L2, 5.13; L3, 11.17; pre-pupa, 109.12 and pupa, 7.31 days. Preadult development time was completed in 127.6 days for males, and in 154.4 days for females. When we tested mean duration by developmental stages, pre-pupa was significantly longer for females than for males (P < 0.01). Relative mortality was highest in the third instar, followed by the pupal stage. 
4009273|Previously published observations on biology of immature mordellid beetles are reviewed and discussed. New larval host plant associations are presented for 11 mordellid species and 22 plant species. Biology, ecology and a rearing technique are presented.
27571107|Both Genuchinus ineptus (Horn) and Chlorixanthe propinqua (Gory and Percheron) (Cetoniinae) were collected in decaying sotol (Dasylirion spp., Agavaceae) after the initial rot had been started by invading individuals of Thrincopyge LeConte (Buprestidae). Illustrations of the plants and insect species involved are included.
3999637|A new species of Scaphinotus is described, illustrated, and compared with S. angusticollis olympiae (Van Dyke). The type locality is Klahowya, along the Soleduck River near Sappho, Clallam Co., Washington. The subgenus Stenocantharis is combined with Brennus.
41413644|The third instar and pupa of Canthon muticus muticus Harold are described and illustrated. The larvae were reared from eggs laid by adults under laboratory conditions. Morphology of the two stages is analyzed based on characters at the generic level. Larval morphology is compared with that of other species of Canthon Hoffmansegg. Species can be distinguished by a combination of head chaetotaxy and stridulatory teeth. The pupae of Canthon vary only by the pronotal projections. Se describen e ilustran el tercer estadio y la pupa de Canthon muticus muticus Harold. Las larvas fueron criadas a partir de huevos puestos por adultos en condiciones de laboratorio. La morfologa de las dos etapas es analizada sobre la base de los caracteres propios del gnero. La morfologa de la larva se compara con la de otras especies de Canthon Hoffmansegg. Las especies se pueden distinguir por la combinacin de la quetotaxia ceflica y los dientes estridulatorios. Las pupas de Canthon se diferencian solamente por las proyecciones del pronoto.
4009167|A synthesis of research that has been conducted on resorption in the ovary in Scarabaeinae is provided. In the Scarabaeinae, resorption in the ovarioles is correlated with the complexity and efficiency of nesting behavior. The phenomenon can occur in different ways and to different degrees, depending on physiological, behavioral and ecological conditions. Studies done to date (including cases with and without parental care of progeny) are reviewed. Resorption in the ovary is correlated with rate of oviposition, existence of suboptimal conditions, age of the female and degree of parental care. A table of the taxa discussed is provided.
4008907|The adult masked chafer, Cyclocephala pasadenae, is shown to be lethal when eaten by a variety of spiders. The beetles were from Lubbock, Texas. Fatalities in the pest spider, Latrodectus hesperus, were noted within 12 h of feeding. Preliminary study indicates that some individual spiders are apparently able to detect the toxin(s).
4009142|Micromyrmex Sleeper is redefined to include all Otidocephalina with supraocular sulci and linear protibiae. Micromyrmex asclepia Ivie and Sikes, new species (Hispaniola), M. versicolor (Champion), new combination (Guatemala), M. simplex (Suffrian), new combination (Cuba), and M. bactrianus (Champion), new combination (Mexico), bring the number of described species in the genus to ten. The larvae of M. asclepia feed and pupate in the stems of Asclepias nivea L. Aspects of the larva, pupa, and adult of M. asclepia are illustrated. A key to the genera of Otidocephalina is provided.
4008068|Apolpones Hustache is transferred from the curculionid subfamily Baridinae to Tychiinae and placed in new synonymy under Microtychius Casey, a subgenus of Sibinia Germar. The type-species of Apolpones, A. rectirostris from Paraguay, is redescribed, illustrated, and compared to other South American Microtychius.
4009216|We used laboratory experiments to study the potential for predator-prey and competitive interactions between two carabid beetles, the holarctic Pterostichus adstrictus (Eschscholtz), and P. melanarius (Illiger) introduced to North America from Europe. These two species co-occur over much of northern North America and exhibit changing patterns of between-habitat distribution and abundance in western Canada. In our experiments, adult survival of P. adstrictus was ca. 35% lower in the presence of the larger-bodied P. melanarius. Because starvation of individually isolated beetles did not elevate mortality for either species, we conclude that predation, and not interspecific competition for food, was responsible for reduced survival of P. adstrictus in the mixed-species trials. Although beetle survival was not affected by reduced food, gravid P. melanarius lost mass when food was limited and showed potential increased egg production with increased food. Larvae of both species had high survivorship when held alone, but predation by both conspecific and heterospecific adults significantly reduced larval survival. All of these effects occurred in the presence of suitable alternative food but many were exacerbated when food levels were lowered experimentally. We conclude that intraguild predation and interspecific competition for food could reduce survival and reproductive potential, thus affecting the population dynamics of these two species in nature.
3999463|Fossil beetle remains have been found in a sample taken from a Late Quaternary wood rat midden. Three fragments have been assigned to the extant species, Niptus abstrusus Spilman (Coleoptera:Ptinidae).
4009685|The South American genus Paraplesiataenius Chalumeau is redefined and its affinities are discussed. Three species are recognized. Paraplesiataenius tremolerasi (Schmidt) and two new species from Brazil, P. catarinaensis new species and P. genieri new species are described and illustrated, a key to the species and distribution records are included.
27571079|The longhorned beetle genus Kudekanye (Cerambycidae: Apatophyseinae) new genus and Kudekanye suidafrika new species are described from the lowland fynbos and renosterveld ecosystem of southern Africa. The type species is characterized by large globose eyes with ventral lobes that nearly touch on the gena, dull brownish-yellow body color, five vague costae on each elytron, and antennae that are estimated to be 3.8 times the body length. Additionally, the recently described Afroartelida teunisseni, also in the Apatophyseinae, is recorded for the first time from Swaziland and Zimbabwe.
3999685|A drawing of the larval head capsule and a description of the apical margin of the frontal piece are given as a supplement to a previously published aid in identification of carabid larvae of cropland.
4008989|New Country and locality records are presented for the Central American buprestid species Halecia chrysodemoides (Saunders), H. cupreosignata (Waterhouse), H. laticollis (Waterhouse), Eupodalecia perfecta (Kerremans), Euplectalecia beltii (Saunders), E. pulverulenta (Waterhouse), and E. semenovi Obenberger. Comments on the general variation of P. chrysodemoides and P. laticollis and a description of the female of E. spectraloides Bellamy and Wescott from Colombia are also given.
4008841|Field collected female specimens of Ilybius Erichson were dissected and aged. It was noted that the size of the rectum varied with reproductive age and abdominal fullness. Teneral specimens had greatly distended, fluid-filled recta while those of sexually mature specimens were small. It is postulated that rectal expansion is a mechanism that increases the body specific gravity and permits buoyancy control. The observations are in agreement with ideas previously proposed on a closely related species.
4008719|Pararhopaea moffatensis and Lepidiota trihomines, n. spp., from central and northern Queensland, respectively, are described and illustrated. A key to the Australian species of Pararhopaea is given. New distribution records are given for Zietzia geologa Blackburn, Antitrogus parvulus Britton, A. politus (Lea), A. setifrons Britton, Metatrogus septuosus Britton, Rhopaea magnicornis Blackburn, R. verreauxi Blanchard, Lepidiota sparsa Britton, L. negatoria Blackburn, L. consobrina Girault, L. frenchi Blackburn, L. noxia Britton, L. clypealis Moser, L. picticollis Lea and L. crinita Brenske.
4008933| Basic chromosomal parameters are first reported for two species of hispines and seven cassidines (Chrysomelidae) from Puerto Rico. Physonota (Eurypepla) jamaicensis (Linnaeus) and Charidotella (s. str.) sexpunctata (Fabricius) (both Cassidinae), the latter a potential pest of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas), are new records for Puerto Rico. Only P. jamaicensis shows the modal (inferred ancestral) meioformula 8 +
27571082|Larvae of Megacerus flabelliger Fhraeus were found in Venezuela feeding in seeds of Merremia macrocalyx (Ruiz and Pavon) O'Donnell, a convolvulaceous weed about which little is known regarding its natural enemies. In the study locality, M. macrocalyx produces fruits with one to four seeds. The bruchid oviposited more frequently on fruits with multiple seeds but only one seed was attacked, although in some fruits with multiple seeds almost all seeds had eggs. Oviposition occurred most frequently on seeds still on the plant. Only M. flabelliger eggs were noted on the seeds of M. macrocalyx. While on a few seeds there was more than one egg attached, most seeds held only a single egg and only one adult emerged from a seed. Wasps belonging to the families Braconidae, Eupelmidae, Eurytomidae and Eulophidae emerged from seeds not destroyed by the bruchid.
27571158|Rapid and accurate sexing of the green June beetle, Cotinis nitida L., is important in research on this species, and secondary sexual characteristics are often used in sexing this insect. However, information about C. nitida secondary sexual dimorphism is limited to a small sample collected from the northeastern United States. We studied the distribution of morphological traits which are thought to be sex-dependent characteristics (number of teeth on anterior tibia, ratio of the hind tibia to the hind tarsus, pubescence of the last abdominal sternite, and general shape of clypeal horn) in a large sample acquired from a Missourian C. nitida population. These beetles exhibited a lesser degree of secondary sexual dimorphism in comparison to northeastern US C. nitida populations, especially in older females that possibly had worn down tibial teeth and abdominal hairs by digging in soil to lay eggs. Consequently, the method of sexing C. nitida by the use of secondary sexual characteristics is probably not applicable for all ages of adult beetles. We illustrate a rapid method of sexing C. nitida that involves a gentle lateral squeeze of the abdomen in vivo to separate the anal tergite and sternite, allowing examination of the primary sexual characteristics (genitalia).
4008043|Leptotrachelus dorsalis F. and Lebia analis Dejean were the 2 most commonly occurring carabid adults on field corn foliage. Larvae of L. dorsalis were found to occur in Heliothis zea (Boddie) infested corn ears. Four other carabid species were collected but infrequently occurred on corn foliage.
4008750|Micropeplus nelsoni, new species, is described and illustrated. The species is assigned to the Staphylinoides Species Group and a revised key is presented to aid in the identification of the North American species of this group.
4009610|Aphodius (Bodilus) kaznakovi Frolov, new species, from central China (Qinghai Province) is described and illustrated. The new species is compared with closely related A. (B.) sordescens Harold.
4008577|A new species of tumbling flower beetle, Mordellistena tetraspilota Burne, from southern Arizona is illustrated and described. This species is distinguished by the possession of a striking color pattern, unlike other southwestern Mordellistena which are usually unicolorous brown or black.
3999591|Agrilus politus politus Say, found on willow, and A.p. burkei Fisher, found on alder, are rarely found together and then only when the hosts occur together. Possible hybrids, based on color differences, were found on 2 such occasions in Oregon and California.
4009865|The subtribe Anillina in southeastern United States includes the genera Serranillus and Anillinus, both of which are endemic to the region. Serranillus contains two species, S. jeanneli Barr, the type-species and S. dunavani (Jeannel), new combination, transferred from Anillinus. Both occur in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Anillinus contains 28 species, 11 previously described from southeastern U. S., east of the Mississippi River and the following 17 described here as new species: A. balli (SE. Kentucky), A. barri (E. Tennessee), A. cornelli (W. North Carolina, N. South Carolina), A. daggyi (North Carolina), A. docwatsoni (North Carolina), A. erwini (W. North Carolina), A. folkertsi (SW. Alabama), A. kovariki (N. Florida), A. langdoni (E. Tennessee), A. lescheni (E. Oklahoma), A. loweae (W. North and South Carolina, E. Tennessee), A. magazinensis (W. Arkansas), A. moseleyae (W. North Carolina, E. Tennessee), A. murrayae (W. North Carolina), A. robisoni (W. Arkansas), A. stephani (E. Oklahoma), and A. tishechkini (W. Arkansas). A neotype is designated for A. elongatus Jeannel. Species are arranged in groups on the basis of microsculpture and morphometric characters. Trends and correlations in general body form and proportions, microsculpture patterns, aedeagal morphology, and distributions are discussed.
4008623|A description of mature larvae of the weevil Lepesoma bakeri (Van Dyke) is presented with illustrations.
4008089| The 19 species of Deronectes which occur in the southwestern United States, Mexico, and Guatemala are treated in this study. Two new species, D. spectabilis and D. minax, are described and 2 more species are recognized, but not described because males are not known. D. nebulosus (Sharp) is a junior synonym of D. roffi (Clark) and what was thought to be D. roffi is renamed and redescribed as D. spectabilis. D. corvinus (Sharp) and D. opaculus (Sharp) are shown to be distinct, and so are D. coelamboides (Fall) and D. panaminti (Fall). The species of Deronectes dealt with here are shown to belong to at least 3 different lineages. D. striatellus (Leconte), D. aequinoctialis (Clark), and D. funereus (Crotch) belong to the subgenus Potamonectes, D. grammicus (Sharp), and D. neomexicanus Zimmerman and Smith to Stictotarsus, and 12 species of the roffi group to another subgenus to be described later. A key, diagnoses, illustrations, and distributions are presented for all species. /// Las 19 especies de Deronectes que ocurren en el sudoeste de Los Estados Unidos, en Mxico, y en Guatemala se consideran en este estudio. Dos especies nuevas, D. spectabilis y D. minax, se describen y 2 ms especies se reconocen, pero no se describen porque los machos no estn reconocidos. D. nebulosus (Sharp) es un sinnimo ms bajo de D. roffi (Clark) y lo que estaba reconocida como D. roffi est renombrada y redescribida como D. spectabilis. D. corvinus (Sharp) y D. opaculus (Sharp) se muestran como distinctas, y tambien D. coelamboides (Fall) y D. panaminti (Fall). Las especies de Deronectes que se consideran aqu se muestran que pertenecen  lo menos 3 linajes diferentes. D. striatellus (Leconte), D. aequinoctialis (Clark), y D. funereus (Crotch) pertenecen al subgenero Potamonectes, D. grammicus (Sharp), y D. neomexicanus Zimmerman and Smith  Stictotarsus, y 12 especies del grupo roffi pertenecen  otro subgenero que se describir ms tarde. Una clave, diagnsticos, ilustraciones, y distribuciones se presentan para todas las especies. 
4008078| Strategus verrilli Ratcliffe was rediscovered on Dominica and is here redescribed, and a neotype is designated. A second specimen of Strategus craigi Ratcliffe (from the Huachuca mountains in Arizona) is reported and provides a new country record for this species. A female of S. ajax (Olivier) is reported from the Bahamas. Strategus monguilloni Voirin is reaffirmed as a synonym of S. mandibularis Sternberg, and the correct identification of the female allotype of S. gracilis Endrdi is questioned. Hispanioryctes wittmeri Howden and Endrdi is reported from Haiti. 
4009638| Description of larval instars of the madicolous species Hydrotarsus compunctus (Wollaston 1865) is presented including a detailed chaetotaxic and porotaxic analysis of the cephalic capsule, head appendages, legs, last abdominal segment and urogomphi. Compared to other genera of the tribe Hydroporini, Hydrotarsus Falkenstrm (1938) is postulated to be more closely related phylogenetically to Sanfilippodytes Franciscolo and Hydroporus Clairville based on the following combination of characters: (i) absence of the primary seta MX5, (ii) absence of a constriction at level of occipital suture, (iii) presence of a maxillary cardo, (iv) insertion of the primary seta MX1 on the maxillary cardo, (v) presence of spiracles on mesothorax and abdominal segments 1-7, and (vi) presence of the primary seta TR2. 
4009356| Presented is a descriptive study of the epipharynx of Ataenius regulus Balthasar, A. figurator Harold, A. glabriventris Schmidt, A. setiger Bates, A. imbricatus (Melsheimer), A. punctifrons Cartwright, A. nocturnus (Nomura), A. texanus Harold, A. confertus Fall, A. sculptor Harold, A. complicatus Harold and A. communis Hinton. The prototypical structure is as follows: the haptomerum is piriform, the nesium with a row of sensilla; the prophobae has a row of short setae surrounding the haptomerum from the acroparia to the plegmatium; and the crepis is fused to the pternotorma, which is sclerotized, asymmetric and has a midbasal diagonal projection attached to the mesophoba. The following variations are observed in the chaetotaxia: corypha with 2-3 setae and 0-7 sensilla, chaetopedia with 6-15 setae, chaetopariae with a longitudinal row of 16-27 setae, while the pternotorma is symmetric or asymmetric; there may or may not be a clithrum. /// Se presenta un estudio descriptivo de la epifaringe en Ataenius regulus Balthasar, A. figurator Harold, A. glabriventris Schmidt, A. setiger Bates, A. imbricatus (Melsheimer), A. punctifrons Cartwright, A. nocturnus (Nomura), A. texanus Harold, A. confertus Fall, A. sculptor Harold, A. complicatus Harold y A. communis Hinton; esta estructura muestra un prototipo bsico: haptomerum piriforme; nesium con una franja de sensilas; prophobae con una franja de sedas cortas alrededor del haptomerum desde la acroparia hasta el plegmatium; y el crepis unido al pternotorma, esclerozado, asimtrico y con una proyeccin centro-basal diagonal unida a la mesophoba. Las variaciones observadas en la quetotaxia son: corypha de 2-3 sedas y de 0-7 sensilas, chaetopedia de 6-15 sedas, chaetoparia con una franja longitudinal de 16-27 sedas, mientras que el pternotorma es simtrico o asimtrico y la clithra puede estar presente o ausente. 
4009305|A new species of Clivina, C. myops, is described from North Carolina (type locality: Raleigh, Wake Co.) and a key to the North American species of the fossor group is included.
4009798|The first records of Bycrea villosa Pascoe (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae; Opatrinae) outside Mexico are reported, including recent collections from Arizona, USA, and specimens from Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador and Guatemala. The beetle is of interest because of its association with the nests of leaf-cutter ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae), specifically Atta mexicana (F. Smith) and probably other Atta species that have above-ground refuse dumps. A diagnosis and images of the beetle adult and larva are included.
41314165|An invasive population of the goldspotted oak borer, Agrilus auroguttatus Schaeffer (Coleoptera: Buprestidae), is colonizing and killing three species of oaks in San Diego Co., California. However, the interactions of A. auroguttatus with oaks in its native range in southeastern Arizona have not been recorded. We present a complete inventory of the North and Central American collection records of A. auroguttatus and Agrilus coxalis Waterhouse from the literature and from a survey of the holdings of 27 museum and personal collections. We also discuss the relationship between this collection history and the behavior of A. auroguttatus as an intracontinental invasive species. Surveys of native populations of A. auroguttatus in oak forest stands from four mountain ranges in southeastern Arizona revealed injury patterns on Emory oak, Quercus emoryi Torrey, and silverleaf oak, Quercus hypoleucoides A. Camus, similar to those observed on other "red" oaks in California. No damage was observed on "white" oaks in Arizona, and observed only rarely on a white oak, Quercus engelmannii Greene, in California. In Arizona, adult emergence was confirmed from bark removed from Q. emoryi, representing the first developmental record of A. aumguttatus from a native host. Late instars of Agrilus sp. were also recovered from Q. hypoleucoides, but they were not reared to the adult stage for species identification.Nonetheless, our observations of damage and the presence of larvae in the same configuration and location in the outer bark as we would expect for A. auroguttatus suggest that Q. hypoleucoides is also likely a host. Two hymenopteran parasitoids, Calosota elongata Gibson (Eupeimidae) and Atanycolus simplex Cresson (Braconidae), and two likely coleopteran predators (Trogossitidae and Elateridae) emerged from, or were collected in southeastern Arizona from, Q. emoryi bark infested with A. auroguttatus. Based on the museum survey results, the morphological similarity of individuals from the California and Arizona populations, the spatial dynamics of the pattern of infestation in California, the geographic isolation of hosts in California from native populations of the beetle, and the proximity of San Diego Co.to southeastern Arizona, we hypothesize that A.auroguttatus was introduced to California from Arizona or less likely from the Mexican states of Baja California, Chihuahua, or Sonora, and that the introduction most likely occurred on oak firewood. Further, we hypothesize that the oak mortality in southern California is occurring from this intracontinental invasive species because the beetle is filling a vacant niche by colonizing and developing in non-coevolved trees with low host resistance in the absence of a diverse and coevolved insect natural enemy complex.
4009939|New records establish the presence of the Ripiphoridae in the Maritime Provinces of Canada. Ripiphorus fasciatus (Say) is newly recorded from both New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. The bionomics of the genus, species of host bees, developmental history, and the status of the group in the region are all briefly discussed.
4008643| The North American genus Parabyrsopolis is redefined, and a sister genus, Viridimicus, is established to accommodate those species from southern Mexico to Guatemala previously placed in Cotalpa or Parabyrsopolis. Parabyrsopolis is now monotypic, and four new species (of six) in the genus Viridimicus are described from Mexico: V. cyanochlorus, V. impunctatus, V. ratcliffei, and V. unitus. A key to the species of Viridimicus, as well as keys to the tribes of Rutelinae, subtribes of Rutelini, and genera of Areodina are presented. Phylogenetic hypotheses (based on cladistic methodology) and biogeographic hypotheses (based on vicariance and dispersal events) for the genera of Areodina and species of Viridimicus are presented. /// En este trabajo se redefine el gnero norteamericano Parabyrsopolis y se describe a Viridimicus para agrupar a las especies del Sureste de Mxico y Guatemala que con anterioridad estaban includas en Cotalpa o en Parabyrsopolis. Parabyrsopolis queda ahora como un gnero monotpico, mientras que Viridimicus agrupa a seis especies, cuatro de ellas nuevas que aqu se describen de Mxico: V. cyanochlorus, V. impunctatus, V. ratcliffei, y V. unitus. Se presenta una clave para separar las tribus de Rutelinae, las subtribus de Rutelini, los gneros de Areodina y las especies de Viridimicus. Se propone una hiptesis sobre la filogena (utilizando mtodos cladsticos) de los gneros de Areodina y las especies de Viridimicus reconocidos. Asi como hiptesis biogeogrfics basadas en eventos de vicariancia y dispersin de los Areodina y el genero Viridimicus. 
4008177|The checklist of selected world species includes only those citations in which the first and/or last larval stages are described with sufficient detail to be useful. References to these stages are included for 122 species representing 29 genera and the 6 bruchid subfamilies.
4008484|The size of prey taken by different species of Pterostichini was examined using crickets as prey. Although the sizes of prey eaten overlapped among Pterostichini of different sizes, there was a positive correlation between the size of prey taken and the mandible gape of the beetle species. It is suggested that ease of capture restricts the prey sizes taken by smaller predators giving larger species a greater range of potential prey.
4009197|Species in the Mature pod oviposition guild are Acanthoscelides longescutus (Pic), Pseudopachymerina spinipes (Erichson), Scutobruchus ceratioborus (Philippi), four species of Algarobius Bridwell and seven species of Rhipibruchus Bridwell. Acanthoscelides longescutus, Scutobruchus ceratioborus, and three species of Algarobius do not glue eggs to seeds or pods as many bruchids do, but the females insert the glueless eggs into cracks or crevices in the pods of species of Prosopis L. Seven species of Rhipibruchus feed in seeds of Prosopis but glue their eggs to the outside of the pod valves. Pseudopachymerina spinipes glues eggs to pod valves of Acacia tortuosa (Linnaeus) Willdenow. Several examples are presented that show that the natural distributions of some species of bruchids in North America and some in southern South America terminate in northern South America, especially in central Ecuador. The species from southern South America seem to be ecological equivalents of those in North America in host preference and oviposition behavior but not necessarily in taxonomic affinities.
40389472|Adalia bipunctata (L.), Coccinella transversoguttata richardsoni Brown, and C. novemnotata Herbst (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) were previously common throughout much of North America, but their numbers have declined drastically over the last few decades. This paper reports on recent findings of these species at nine sites in western South Dakota and western Nebraska in 2008. Nine A. bipunctata, 11 C. transversoguttata richardsoni, and 12 C. novemnotata were among 930 coccinellids sampled overall. An additional C. transversoguttata richardsoni was among coccinellids captured on a sticky trap in a wheat field during survey for cereal leaf beetle, Oulema melanopus (L.), in Butte, County, South Dakota in 2000. In several instances, adult C. transversoguttata richardsoni and C. novemnotata were observed on plants with other coccinellids, especially Hippodamia convergens Gurin-Mneville, a native species, and Coccinella septempunctata L., a non-native species. Coccinella septempunctata was observed feeding upon two native aphids, Aphis helianthi Monell and Uroleucon atripes (Gillette and Palmer), providing additional records of predation by this coccinellid on non-target, native prey. Results are discussed with respect to other recent discoveries of A. bipunctata, C. transversoguttata richardsoni, and C. novemnotata and in relation to future research and conservation efforts.
4008066|The weevil Lixellus elongatus (Hustache) appeared host specific on water pennywort (Hydrocotyle), both in the field and in laboratory tests. The adults fed on the upper surface of the leaves, and the females laid eggs in the petioles; in the laboratory, they also laid eggs in the stolons. The larvae tunneled in the petioles and stolons and pupated in the stolons. We collected the weevil Tanysphiroideus parvulus Hustache only on Salvinia auriculata Aublet in the field, but in the laboratory it also fed on S. rotundifolia Willd. The weevil Cyrtobagous singularis Hustache was found for the first time in southern South America; it fed only on S. auriculata. Both T. parvulus and C. singularis severely damaged Salvinia, and T. parvulus damaged Azolla plants in the laboratory. All three weevil species, with additional testing, could be candidates for introduction for biological control of aquatic weeds.
27571065|The ability of Hylaeogena thoracica Waterhouse, 1889 (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) to induce galls on Amphilophium paniculatum (L.) H.B.K (Bignoniaceae) is reported here. Species of Hylaeogena Obenberger, 1923 are associated with vines of the family Bignoniaceae as leafminers, therefore this report represents the first record of the first record of the genus acting as a gall inducer. The effect of the inquiline Philides anthonomides Champion, 1906 (Coleoptera: Curculionidae, Conoderinae) on gall morphology is also described. Most Neotropical conoderines are associated with tree falls and are assumed to be wood-borers. This represents the first report of the species acting as an inquiline in galls. Four parasitoid species belonging to three families of Hymenoptera that emerged from the galls are also reported. /// Se reporta el hbito formador de agalla de Hylaeogena thoracica Waterhouse, 1889 (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) sobre Amphilophium paniculatum (L.) H.B.K (Bignoniaceae). Las especies del gnero Hylaeogena Obenberger, 1923 estaban reportadas como minadoras de hojas en plantas de la familia Bignoniaceae, por lo que este reporte representa el primero de una especie como formadora de agalla. Se documenta el efecto que puede causar la presencia del inquilino Philides anthonomoides Champion, 1906 (Coleoptera: Curculionidae, Conoderinae) en la morfologa de las agallas. La mayora de las especies de Conoderinae son asociados como barrenadores en troncos cados, por lo que este representa el primer reporte de una especie como inquilina en agallas. Cuatro especies de parasitoides pertenecientes a tres familias de Hymenoptera que emergieron de las agallas son tembin reportadas.
4543028|We investigated the dung beetle Geotrupes (Halffterius) rufoclavatus Jekel on the eastern slope of the Cofre de Perote Volcano, Veracruz, Mexico, with monthly trapping samples taken during the years 1999 to 2001. Monthly beetle abundances were related to habitat and collection period. The distributions of geotrupinae species on the Cofre de Perote are mapped, providing new data on geographical distribution in the State of Veracruz. The highest quantities of G. rufoclavatus were collected in the forest habitat. Above 3,000 m, more adults were collected in pastures and cultivated fields, showing a single activity peak per year, whereas at lower altitudes, there were lower numbers in those habitats, but several activity peaks per year. In Tonalaco, Veracruz, monthly samples were taken during 2005-2006 to assess the reproductive state of the population. Male and female reproductive systems are similar to those of other geotrupine species. All adults collected were in a maturing state; one female collected in February was ready to oviposit.
4007942|Trox gordoni, a new species of Scarabaeidae (Coleoptera) from Peru, is described, illustrated, and compared with other closely related South American species. Notes on the habits and distribution of Trox aricensis Gutierrez are given. Biotopes at the collection sites of both species are briefly described.
4009362| A new species of Ontherus Erichson, O. gladiator, new species, from the State of Minas Gerais in Brazil is described and the identity of Ontherus elegans Lderwaldt is discussed. /// L'espce nouvelle Ontherus gladiator est dcrite  partir d'exemplaires provenant de l'tat de Minas Gerais au Brsil. L'identit d'Ontherus elegans Lderwaldt est brivement discute. 
4009839|A flight intercept trap was used for 12 days on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, to assay the diversity of staphylinid beetles, and to provide data on which are diurnal and/or nocturnal. The trap was sampled twice over a 24 h period, providing data for diurnal/nocturnal activity for these beetles. In total 1,349 specimens and 35 genera of Staphylinidae were caught, representing nine subfamilies. Of these 1,349 specimens, 1036 (76.8%, P < 0.01 t-test) were caught during the day, and 313 (23.2%) were caught during the night. Aleocharinae is the most abundant subfamily (57.5%), followed by Staphylininae (13.1%). Details are given for the diurnal/nocturnal activity of each taxon captured.
3999785|The family Mycetophagidae is composed, in the Nearctic region, of 26 species in the following 5 genera (numbers of species in parentheses): Mycetophagus (15), Litargus (6), Berginus (3), Typhaea (1), and Thrimolus (1). Keys are provided to all taxonomic units, several species are synonymized, and one new species of Mycetophagus is described.
4009172|Individuals within a population of Chauliognathus basalis (LeConte) in Colorado were found to exhibit 11 discrete patterns of pigmentation on their pronota. The patterns range from no dark pigment at all to a pronotom almost completely covered with dark pigment. Pigmentation class is related to body size: smaller beetles are darker than larger beetles. As a group, males are smaller and darker than females. The adaptive significance of color polymorphism, particularly with regard to thermoregulation, is discussed.
3999902|Systematic sampling of stream banks along the San Gabriel River in southern California revealed distinct zones of microhabitat preference for adults of the various genera studied (Hydraenidae: Hydraena; Limnebius; Ochthebius) (Hydrophilidae: Chaetarthria; Laccobius). Limitations on microhabitat utilization by genera appear to result from the interaction of flow rate, slope of the stream bank, size of interstitial spaces, and convexity of the beetles (among other components). Differences in zones of microhabitat utilization by congeneric species, where determined, were also related to beetle convexity and size of interstices. Extensive alterations of the psammic habitat have resulted in restriction of these beetles to the mountainous areas of the drainage system.
4009204| The type species of five genera of Buprestidae are designated: Chrysopistus deyrollei Thry for Chrysopistus Thry, Buprestis viridula Olivier for Haplotrinchus Kerremans, Buprestis pumicatus Klug for Paradora Kerremans, Evimantius rufopictus Kerremans for Evimantius Kerremans and Agrilus turberculatus Klug for Agriloides Kerremans. Authorship of the Madagascan coraebine genus Entomogaster is reverted to Saunders 1871 rather than Fairmaire 1899 with the type species Anthaxia sexpunctata Gory and Laporte fixed by original monotypy. Three new synonyms are proposed in the genus Evimantius: E. rufopictus Kerremans = E. olsufiewi Hoscheck = E. embriki Obenberger = E. strandi Obenberger. Discoderes corynthica Fairmaire is transferred to Paradora (Speophora) Thry with Speophora seyrigi Thry a new junior synonym. 
4010027|Smicronyx obrieni Anderson, Korotyaev, and Lingafelter, a new species associated with ragweed [Ambrosia grayi (A. Nelson) Shinners], was discovered in Krasnodar (Russia) and Texas (United States), and is described.
4008569|Autalia phricotrichosa, new species, is described and illustrated from a series of specimens collected in southern Mexico, and Autalia rivularis Gravenhorst, a widespread and common Palearctic species, is recorded for the first time in eastern and western North America. A preliminary key is provided to the five species that are known to occur in the New World.
4009891|The endangered American burying beetle, Nicrophorus americanus Olivier, presently occurs in small and widely scattered areas on the periphery of its former range. As part of the recovery plan for this insect implemented by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), we conducted surveys in Nebraska to ascertain its presence. Additionally, we examined various trapping methods and procedures in the course of our survey work. We compared the effectiveness of different trap designs, trap placement, timing of trapping, types and amounts of bait, and monitoring traps. We also developed methods to reduce beetle mortality in traps. Our work offers more effective sampling procedures for N. americanus and suggests the current USFWS sampling protocol should be modified. New procedures include larger traps, moist soil substrate, a soil berm to the edge of the trap, longer trapping season, and increased distances between traps. A moist soil substrate, in combination with a shade-giving rain cover, precludes the necessity of servicing all traps by 9 AM each day (as mandated in the current protocol), a task that is logistically difficult or impossible if there are many traps. The sampling procedures we have identified as most appropriate for N. americanus will also improve sampling for other silphid species.
3999953|The Alabama fauna in the aquatic beetle families Haliplidae, Dytiscidae, Noteridae, and Gyrinidae consists of 120 described species.
4008071|The flea beetle, Lysathia flavipes (Boheman), caused heavy damage to water primrose, Ludwigia peploides (H.B.K.) Raven, and moderate damage to parrotfeather, Myriophyllum aquaticum (Velloso) Verde, in nature in Argentina. In the laboratory, it fed on these two plants and slightly on four other plant species, among 32 plant species tested. Both larvae and adults fed on the leaves. The eggs were laid in masses on the leaves and the pupae attached themselves to the leaves. The life cycle required about 20 days from egg to adult.
4009598|Four new species of Desmopachria Babington are described from Bolivia: D. amyae Miller, new species, D. challeti Miller, new species, D. signatoides Miller, new species, and D. volatidisca Miller, new species. The female genitalia of members of the genus are described and illustrated in detail for the first time. A discussion of the taxonomy and characters historically used for the classification of subgenera and species groups is presented. It is concluded that recognition of subgenera in the genus, despite the large size of the group and existence of good characters for grouping some species, is not desirable since some groups are weakly supported by character evidence and/or are probably paraphyletic. Use of all previous subgenus names is rejected. The species are organized into informal groups, most of which correspond with historically used subgenera. Several species are left ungrouped.
4008351|Five new species of Mastogenius from the seasonally dry region of southwestern Ecuador are described. They represent the first records of the genus from Ecuador. A key is included for the species of Mastogenius of Ecuador and Peru west of the Andean Mountains.
4008775|Three new neotropical buprestids are described and illustrated: Halecia asperata, sp. nov. from Belize; Tetragonoschema trinidadensis, sp. nov. from Trinidad; and Xenorhipis orinocoensis, sp. nov. from Venezuela. A checklist of the species of Xenorhipis is provided. The character states of the epipleuron and its use in chalcophorine taxonomy are discussed briefly and illustrated.
4000051|The larva and pupa of Acilius f. fraternus are described, and confusion concerning the immature and adult stages of A. semisulcatus is discussed.
4009300|The constitutions of the languriid genera Empocryptus Sharp and Pseudhenoticus Sharp are considered based on characters present in these and the subfamilies Toraminae and Cryptophilinae. Lepidotoramus, new genus (type species Lepidotoramus grouvellei, new species) associated with a lepidopteran cocoon is described. Based on a cladistic analysis, Pseudhenoticus is removed from Xenoscelinae and placed into synonymy with Empocryptus (resulting in 11 new combinations) and is sister taxon to Lepidotoramus. Lobosternum Reitter is sister taxon to Lepidotoramus + Empocryptus. The members of the Empocryptus group are reviewed and a key to its genera is provided. Biological information is briefly reviewed for each genus.
3999893| The type material of several xantholinine species from Central and South America was studied. The genus Saurohypnus Sharp 1885, with type-species S. scutellaris Sharp 1885, is placed in synonymy with Thyreocephalus Gurin-Mneville 1844. The New World species of the genus Oligolinus auct. (nec Casey 1906) are reassigned to Neoxantholinus Cameron 1944. Lectotypes are designated for Diochus nanus Erichson 1839, Homalolinus canaliculatus (Erichson 1839), Thyreocephalus scutellaris (Sharp 1885), T. puncticeps Sharp 1885, T. rufipennis Sharp 1885, Neoxantholinus guatemalensis (Sharp 1885), and N. lineatus (Schubert 1909). Thyreocephalus halffteri (Mexico) is described as new, and a key to Mexican species related to T. rufipennis is given. 
4009241|The diversa species group of the genus Phyllopertha Stephens is established. It includes two east Asian species, P. taiwana, new species, based on specimens from Taiwan, and P. diversa Waterhouse. Both species are described, illustrated and compared. The Korean P. diversa koreana Ohaus, is listed as a new synonym of P. diversa. A hypothesis on the biogeography of the diversa species group is presented.
4008099|Taxonomic stability in the weevil families Nemonychidae, Attelabidae, and Rhynchitidae is ameliorated by the designation of type material. Thirteen lectotypes and five neotypes are designated for North American species.
4000102|Chromosomal data on 209 species, representing 73 genera and 16 subfamilies of the family Scarabaeidae, are presented. The list contains the diploid number of chromosomes and chromosomal formulae along with a complete bibliography.
4009148|Adults and larvae of four species of Ilybius Erichson from Newfoundland, Canada, were field collected and some were reared to determine their life history. Female adults were dissected to determine their reproductive status. Through temporal distribution of larvae and adults of various reproductive stages, we determined that Ilybius species from Newfoundland followed a mostly univoltine life history with larvae overwintering and adults occurring during the summer. Fifteen percent had a semivoltine life history where some adults overwinter during the second winter.
4000144|In the laboratory, Deloyala guttata and Metriona bicolor develop from eggs to adults in from 23 to 43 days. Their larvae and those of Plagiometriona clavata construct and carry fecal masses that appear defensive in function. Adult D. guttata and M. bicolor usually attain full metallic coloration when they are from 9 to 27 days old. Copulation usually occurs with the male mounted on the female, and it lasts from 15 to 583 min. Beetles often copulate repeatedly with the same mates and are also polygamous. During copulation, older adults of M. bicolor change color in from 120 to 1033 sec from brownish orange with black spots to brilliant, metallic gold. These beetles are usually gold when they are undisturbed. Disturbance causes them to turn from gold to goldish orange with black spots in from 12 to 141 sec and then eventually to turn to brownish orange with spots. While changing color, males show spots significantly faster than females. Possible adaptive reasons for rapid color change in M. bicolor are discussed.
4007937|The flea beetle, Pseudolampsis guttata (LeConte), was collected on waterfern, Azolla caroliniana Willd., in outdoor laboratory pools at Gainesville, Florida, and in the field at Crystal River, Florida, during autumn 1979, and the biology of the beetle was studied in the laboratory. The egg and pupa are briefly described and illustrated, and characters are given for separation of the larval instars. Adult and larval feeding was destructive to waterfern which suggests that this beetle might be a pest if waterfern becomes important as a cover crop in rice fields, or a bio-control agent if released on waterfern where the plant is injurious.
4009321|The 157 species of Dytiscidae that occur in California are listed along with the counties in which they are found.
4000127|Single collections each of two foreign species of tortoise beetles raise the possibility that these might now be established in continental United States: Aspidomorpha probably transparipennis (Motschulsky) and Metriona tuberculata (Fab.). Host plants for both species include members of the Convolulaceae. Therefore these beetles assume potential importance, either as pests of sweet potato or as agents for the biological control of bindweed.
4009369|We present field and laboratory observation on feeding and reproduction with live and dead invertebrates, including Diplopoda, in two species of Canthon Hoffmannsegg.
4000111|Pachymerus thoracicus Prevett (P. "coperniciae", a nomen nudum) is known from seeds of only one species of palm, Copernicia alba Morong, which is restricted to southwestern Mato Grosso in Brazil and adjacent portions of neighboring countries. The 2 specimens cited in the original description as being from Bahia were incorrectly labeled, as demonstrated from a search of pertinent documents. Therefore, records from northeastern Brazil and from other species of Copernicia are suppressed.
4000065| Eight species are recognized in the neotropical genus Stenocerus Schnherr, one of which, S. paraguayensis Jordan, is doubtfully valid. Jordan's synonymy of seven Jekel names is supported. New synonyms (in parentheses) are: S. nigrotessellatus Blanchard (=velatus Erichson, testudo Jekel, nigritarsis Jordan); S. longulus Jekel (=blanchardi Jekel); S. angulicollis Jekel (=platalea Jordan). A key to species and summaries of distribution and biology are included. One species, S. frontalis Gyllenhal, is a part of an extensive complex of beetles which mimic flies. 
4010037| A key to the species of adventive sap beetles of Hawaii is provided to assist in the separation of adventive species from endemics, and includes the following species: Cybocephalus nipponicus Endrdy-Younga, Conotelus mexicanus Sharp, Carpophilus (Urophorus) humeralis (F.), Carpophilus hemipterus (L.), Carpophilus (dimidiatus) dimidiatus (F.), Carpophilus (dimidiatus) freemani Dobson, Carpophilus (dimidiatus) maculatus Murray, Carpophilus (dimidiatus) mutilatus (Erichson), Carpophilus marginellus Motschulsky, Carpophilus oculatus Murray, Epuraea (Haptoncus) luteola Erichson, Epuraea (Haptoncus) munda (Sharp), Epuraea (Haptoncus) ocularis Fairmaire, Aethina (Idaethina) concolor (Macleay), Omosita discoidea (F.), Stelidota geminata (Say), Stelidota chontalensis Sharp, Phenolia (Aethinodes) attenuata (Reitter), and Phenolia (Lasiodites) limbata tibialis (Boheman). For each adventive species, general habits, island distributions within Hawaii, new collection records, and worldwide distribution are noted. 
4008966|Six new records for the endangered American burying beetle, Nicrophorus americanus Olivier, are reported from the Nebraska Sandhills. Nebraska is one of only four states in the United States where this beetle remains extant.
4009353|Hemiphileurus ryani and H. phratrius, new species of dynastine scarabs, are described from the Dominican Republic. They are compared to their closest congeners. A new key to the nine species of Hemiphileurus Kolbe that occur in the West Indies is provided along with diagnostic illustrations of the male parameres.
4009225|A new species of Buprestidae, Acmaeodera lupinae Nelson, is described from the western United States. It is compared to closely similar species.
4009096| Nine genera, 17 species, and 84 specimens of Madagascar anthribid weevils are reported as prey of sphecid wasps of the genus Cerceris Latreille. Two new species of Mylascopus Fairmaire, M. quagga and M. pegasus from this collection are keyed, described, illustrated, and compared with the type species, M. zebrinus Fairmaire. Mylascopus is grouped with Epitaphius Fairmaire. Epitaphius nigropictus Fairmaire is designated as the type species of the genus Epitaphius Fairmaire. The genus group name Meriolus Fairmaire is newly placed in synonymy under Epitaphius Fairmaire and the species group name Meriolus piceopictus Fairmaire is newly placed in synonymy under Epitaphius sugillatus Fhraeus. 
4009478| The platyscelis group of the carabid genus Agra Fabricius, an equatorially centered lineage, consists of 30 species that have a composite range extending from the isthmus of Panam to French Guiana south into Brazil and Bolivia. The majority of species are found in the Amazon Basin. Structural features of both body and appendages are convergent with other carabid beetles that are known to dwell in ant nests, however, no life history of any Agra species is known. The following 12 specific taxa of the platyscelis group are described as new (type locality in parenthesis): A. tingo new species, (PERU, Hunuco, 13 km S Tingo Maria, Tambillo, Chico Canyon, 0915S, 7623W); A. biolat new species, (PERU, Madre de Dios, 30 air km SW Puerto Maldonado, Rio Tambopata Res., 1250S, 6920W); A. aeris new species, (PERU, Madre de Dios, BIOLAT Biodiversity Station, Pakitza, 1156S, 7117W); A. solimoes new species, (BRAZIL, Amazonas, Tef (Ega), 322S, 6442W); A. servatorum new species, (PERU, Loreto, 1km SW Boca del Rio Samiria, Vigilante Post No. 1, 0440S, 7418W; A. conhormigas new species, (PERU, Madre de Dios, 30 air km SW Puerto Maldonado, Rio Tambopata Res., 1250S, 6920W); A. lilu new species, (BRAZIL, Amazonas, Humait, 0732S 6302W); A. lindae new species, (PERU, Madre de Dios, 30 air km SW Puerto Maldonado, Rio Tambopata Res., 1250S, 6920W); A. rondonia new species, (BRAZIL, Rondonia, Ariquemes, 956S, 6303W); A. nex new species, (BRAZIL, Amazonas, 2km N Itacoatiara-Manaus Highway, 11 km, W of Itacoatiara, Canadian Fathers' Pool, 0308S, 5828W); A. manu new species, (PERU, Madre de Dios, Manu Biosphere Res., Pakitza, 1156S, 7117W); A. dax new species, (PANAMA, Canal Zone, Barro Colorado Is., 0910N, 7950W). The females of A. iquitosana Erwin and A. sasquatch Erwin, and the male of A. varzeicola Erwin are described and illustrated for the first time. A revised key and checklist are provided and distributions of all 33 species are dotmapped. A general discussion for each of the new species, as well as for 12 additional species for which new locality records were found (A. klugii Brull, A. limulus Erwin, A. varzeicola, A. iquitosana, A. tarapotana Erwin, A. titan Erwin, A. platyscelis (Chaudoir), A. caliga Erwin, A. yeti Erwin, A. semiviridis (Straneo), A. sasquatch Erwin, and A. azureipennis Erwin) is included. Remarks on systematics and biogeography based on the newly described specimens are provided. 
4008782|The seasonal flight patterns of 74 species of Scolytidae collected in window traps in black walnut plantations in North Carolina and Illinois are described and compared. Flying height distributions and seasonal flight activities of Xyleborinus saxeseni (Ratzeburg), Xyleborus affinis Eichhoff, Xyleborus xylographus (Say), and Xylosandrus germanus (Blandford) are considered in detail.
3999765|Epuraea alternans Grouvelle has been collected in the Rocky Mountains from British Columbia to Chihuahua. Its distinctive hair tuft on Sternite I is described in detail, and the male genitalia are figured.
4009991| Eubrychius velutus Beck is an aquatic weevil distributed throughout Europe and Asia. It is closely related to Euhrychiopsis lecontei Dietz, which is native to North America and is a potential biological control agent of Eurasian watermilfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum L.). Both weevils are watermilfoil (Myriophyllum) specialists and complete all life stages submersed on the plants. Eubrychius velutus has recently expanded its host range to include the exotic M. heterophyllum Michaux, introduced to Europe from North America. We describe the life history and developmental performance of E. velutus. Developmental rates and survival of E. velutus were similar on the exotic host (M. heterophyllum) when compared to the native hosts (M. spicatum and M. verticillatum L.) and also were similar to developmental rates of E. lecontei. At 23C, eggs hatched in three days, larval and pupal development each lasted about 10 days and total development from egg to adult was completed in 23 days. Both species have very similar life histories and developmental performance. However, E. velutus develops in the meristem and outer portions of the plant and pupates in a cocoon on the top 5 cm of the plant, whereas E. lecontei larvae mine the stems and also pupate there. /// Eubrychius velutus Beck ist ein aquatischer Rsselkfer, der ber Europa und Asien verbreitet ist. Er ist eng mit dem nordamerikanischen Euhrychiopsis lecontei Dietz verwandt, einem potenziellen biologischen Antagonisten des hrigen Tausendblatts (Myriophyllum spicatum L.). Beide Arten sind Myriophyllum-Spezialisten und durchlaufen alle Entwicklungsstadien submers an der Pflanze. Eubrychius velutus hat erst krzlich sein Wirtspflanzenspektrum erweitert und besiedelt auch das von Nord-Amerika nach Europa eingefhrte Myriophyllum heterophyllum Michaux. Hier beschreiben wir den Lebenszyklus und Entwicklungsstadien von E. velutus. Entwicklungs- und berlebensraten von E. velutus auf dem exotischen Wirt M. heterophyllum waren vergleichbar mit denen auf den einheimischen Arten M. spicatum und M. verticillatum L.; auch war die Entwicklungsrate von E. velutus hnlich der von E. lecontei. Bei 23C schlpften die Larven nach drei Tagen aus den Eiern, Larven- und Puppenstadium dauerten jeweils 10 Tage, und die komplette Entwicklung vom Ei zur Imago wurde innerhalb von 23 Tagen durchlaufen. Beide Arten haben einen sehr hnlichen Lebenszyklus und eine vergleichbare Entwicklung. Allerdings leben die Larven von E. velutus im Meristem und auf der Auenseite der Stngel. Sie verpuppen sich in einem Kokon, der bis zu 5 cm von der Sprossspitze entfernt liegt, whrend die Larven von E. lecontei im Stngel minieren und sich dort auch verpuppen. 
4000116|Taxonomic and biogeographic data are given for 5 species of flea beetles from the Canary Islands. Male genitalia are illustrated for Longitarsus nubigena Wollaston. L. persimilis Wollaston is removed from synonymy with L. isoplexidis Wollaston, and L. stenocyphon Wollaston is placed as a subspecies of L. persimilis. L. pallidicollis Wollaston is a subspecies of L. stragulatus Foudras, and L. pesudodorsalis Lindberg is a synonym of pallidicollis; a key to subspecies of L. stragulatus is given. Presence of L. aeneus Kutschera on the Canary Islands is confirmed.
3999589|Podabrus brevipennis LeC., originally based only on micropterous females from Argentine Pass, Colorado, is redescribed with the allotype male coming from Mt. Evans, Colorado at 13,000 ft. elevation. The new subspecies wittmeri is based on a single macropterous male from Medicine Bow Mountains, Wyoming at 9,875 ft. elevation. It is suggested that the micropterous condition is the result of adaptation for high altitude existence.
4009277|Two new genera of flightless Languriidae are described: Brachypterosa, new genus (type species Brachypterosa peckorum, new species) a cryptophiline from Fiji and Paphezia, new genus (type species Paphezia detritophila, new species) a possible xenosceline from New Caledonia. Comments on the phylogenetic relationships of these taxa in the Languriidae are included.
4000101|A new sphaeridiine hydrophilid beetle from Chile, Andotypus ashworthi, new genus, new species, is described, illustrated, and interpolated into previously published keys to genera. Notes on its habitats and its known distribution in the southern half of Chile are included.
4009120|The South American genus Acrorius Kirsch is endemic to higher elevations of the central and northern Andes. It includes the type species A. puncticollis Kirsch and seven new species described herein: A. sisyphus from Colombia, A. papallacta, A. andersoni, A. nymphalis and A. cuprinus from Ecuador, and A. pillahuata and A. plicatifrons from Peru. Species of the genus are recognized by the elytra covered with small tubercles, each bearing a semi-erect seta. In addition, the body vestiture consists of seta-like scales and setae; the scrobes are shallow, directed toward, but not reaching the eyes; the prothorax is slightly transverse; the elytra are ovate; and the tibiae have a mucro and one spur. Diagnostic characters, descriptions and illustrations of the genus and new species are given, type localities are mapped, and a key to species is presented. A cladistic analysis using 26 characters of external morphology and genitalia produced three cladograms; successive weighting resulted in one cladogram. In the cladogram, there are two major monophyletic groups. One of these includes A. puncticollis, A. sisyphus, and A. papallacta, and the other, the remaining species, which follow the sequence A. nymphalis, A. andersoni, A. cuprinus, A. pillahuata, and A. plicatifrons. The relationship of Acrorius to the subantarctic genus Lamiarhinus Morrone indicates the colonization of the central and northern Andes by elements from the Austral region.
3999439|The life history and habits of Haplorhynchites aeneus (Boheman) on Helianthus divaricatus L. in northern Illinois are discussed. Females cut stems below the flower heads, and eggs are deposited in the bases of the disk-flowers. Developing larvae feed on pollen and decaying tissue of the disk-flowers. Fourth instar larvae leave the flower head in October to enter the soil and overwinter; pupation occurs in the upper layers of the soil in July; and adults begin to emerge during the middle of July. Illustrations of all life stages and the host plant are included.
4009710| Mastogenius guayllabambensis MacRae, new species, is described from the Andes Mountains of northwestern Ecuador. The species is fully described, and photographs of the holotype and type habitat, a line drawing of the male genitalia, and comparisons to similar species in the genus are presented. /// Se describe Mastogenius guayllabambensis MacRae, nueva especie, de los Andes del noroeste de Ecuador. La especie se describe completemente, y se presentan fotografas del holotipo y la habitacin del tipo, silueta del edeago, y comparaciones con las especies similares del gnero. 
4008278|New biological and/or geographical distribution data (principally in Mexico) are given for 115 species of Scolytidae in the following genera: Hylurgops, Hylastes, Pseudohylesinus, Dendroctonus, Cnesinus, Pagiocerus, Phloeotribus, Phloeosinus, Chramesus, Chaetophloeus, Liparthrum, Cnemonyx, Scolytopsis, Scolytus, Pycnarthrum, Gymnochilus, Scolytodes, Pseudothysanoes, Thysanoes, Phloeocleptus, Micracis, Micracisella, Hylocurus, Cactopinus, Ips, Dendrocranulus, Coccotrypes, Premnobius, Dryocoetoides, Xylosandrus, Theoborus, and Xyleborus.
4008023|A prediction of positive correlations between body size, dispersal ability, and geographic range size is tested for North American species of the genus Brachinus. Species with low dispersal ability (flightless species) have significantly smaller geographic ranges than do species with high dispersal ability (species capable of flight). Among species capable of flight, there is no significant correlation of any measure of geographic range with maximum or minimum body size. Geographic range variables show significant positive correlations with intraspecific variability in size. Two alternative hypotheses for the correlation of geographic range and body size variability are proposed: 1) Polyphagous feeding by the parasitic larvae of Brachinus species leads to intraspecific size variation, colonizing ability, and wide geographic range; 2) Variation between sites in hosts available or in climate leads to increased intraspecific body size variability in widespread Brachinus species.
3999999|Larvae of the rarely encountered cerambycid Leptura pacifica (Linsley) have been discovered in the arid mountains of southern California infesting the living, dying, and dead branches of living scrub oak, including Quercus dumosa Nuttall. The larvae are often found in association with old workings of the cerambycid Purpuricenus dimidiatus LeConte, and in some cases they appear to rework the frass of P. dimidiatus. Development probably requires about 3 years, larvae of 2 distinct sizes occurring during and immediately after the flight period of the adults.
27571154|Trechus breuili Jeannel 1913, a hypogean species from the southern Iberian peninsula, is redescribed and a new distribution reported. Following a detailed study of the aedeagus (conformation of the inner sac and the apical lamina asymmetrically curved to the left), the species is assigned to the T. martinezi-lineage (sensu Ortuo and Arillo), which comprises a group of species showing strong biogeographical coherence (southwestern Mediterranean region). /// Se redescribe Trechus breuili Jeannel 1913, especie hipogea del sur de la pennsula Ibrica, y se ampla su distribucin. El estudio detallado del edeago (conformacin del saco interno y la lmina apical asimtricamente curvada hacia la izquierda) permite asignarla al linaje-T. martinezi (sensu Ortuo and Arillo), ste constituido por un grupo de especies de gran coherencia biogeogrfica (oeste del mediterrneo meridional).
4008469| Adults of 58 species of Dytiscidae (18 genera) were collected from three acidic and three non-acidic temporary habitats in southern Qubec. Species were classified as acidophilic and non-acidophilic. Hygrotus sylvanus Fall and Neoscutopterus hornii Crotch are recorded from Qubec for the first time, along with what may be a new species, Hydroporus near nigellus Mannerheim. 
4009921|A field study was carried out to determine whether small hypogaeic beetles prey on winter moth (Operophtera brumata [L.]) pupae. Small invertebrates were responsible for ca. 28% of pupal mortality at sites in British Columbia in 1991. Using a new trap design, adult Staphylinidae and beetle larvae were shown to actively search for buried pupae as indicated by significantly higher catches in hypogaeic traps baited with pupae than in unbaited, control traps. Baited and unbaited pitfalls were largely ineffective at capturing predatory larvae when compared to the baited hypogaeic traps. Many previous studies of predation on the soil-dwelling stages of insect herbivores may be biased towards the epigaeic component of the predator assemblage because they use pitfall traps alone. A combination of traps that includes hypogaeic traps should be considered for future studies.
4009068| The arthropod community of cattle dung pads in a pasture in Alachua County, Florida, included three species of Neohypnus Coiffait and Saiz, of which Neohypnus pusillus (Sachse) was the most abundant. Adult N. pusillus were collected year round and were most abundant during June, July and August. The developmental time of immature stages from oviposition to adult emergence was 26-36 d (avg. 29.5) at 27C. It took 5-8, 13-20 and 6-8 d for the egg, larva, and pupa to develop, respectively. Both adults and larvae preyed on eggs and larvae of the horn fly [Haematobia irritans (L.)], when confined together with no other food available. Each adult consumed 4.2 eggs and 5.9 larvae of horn flies per day. Similarly, each larva consumed 9.0 horn fly eggs and 83.5 larvae during its active stage. The egg, larva and pupa of N. pusillus are described. 
4000125|In two 50-hectare forested areas in a Thuja plicata/Pachistima myrsinites habitat type, 52 grand firs, Abies grandis (Douglas) Lindley, hosts of Nosodendron californicum Horn, were located. Trees colonized by N. californicum averaged 40.6 m in height, 115 years in age and 59.5 cm in diameter. Average elevation was 906.8 m.
4009846|A new species of Peploglyptus LeConte (Peploglyptus mulu Caterino), previously known only from the Americas, is described from Malaysia. Like the New World species, P. mulu possesses pronotal and prosternal trichomes, indicative of myrmecophilous associations.
4008410| The necrophagous Scarabaeinae beetles of a coffee-cacao plantation, near Cacaohatan, Chiapas, Mxico, at 430 m altitude, were sampled during one year with a new model of bait trap (NTP-80). Samples were taken biweekly and yielded over 1,700 specimens of five species of Coprophanaeus, Phanaeus, Deltochilum, Onthophagus and Canthon during the study period. Onthophagus belorhinus was the most abundant species throughout the year. Most species were collected throughout the year without marked seasonal differences. Temperature in the area fluctuates little around 25C and the rainfall averages above 100 mm monthly from spring to autumn. Humidity, shade, and temperature at the plantation floor resembles tropical rain forest conditions and allows for the activity of most of the copro-necrophagous and sapro-carpophagous beetles native to these areas. 
4009000|Sexual differences in several morphometric variables were analysed in diapausing Stenotarsus rotundus Arrows in order to assess the allometric nature of these differences and to help to determine the sex of the living beetles. The weight--length relationship is based on an allometric equation with an exponent near 2.6. An original method for constructing histograms was devised to show non-normal weight distribution. The greatest differences between sexes were found in the shape and length of the fifth abdominal sternite and in the width of the hind trochanter, which is correlated with differences in size of the trochanteral tooth occurring in males. Sexual differences are more conspicuous in larger individuals, a phenomenon which is described by different allometric equations for the sexes.
4008928|A new genus and species, Cadiz hardyi (Chrysomelidae: Chrysomelinae), are described from the Cadiz Dunes, San Bernardino Co., California. Its biology and relationship to other Chrysomelidae are discussed.
4009235|Descriptions of structures of the three larval instars of Stictonectes canariensis Machado are presented. The chaetotaxy and porotaxy of the cephalic capsule, head appendages, legs, last abdominal segment, and urogomphi are discussed in detail. Within the tribe Hydroporini, the genus Stictonectes Brink is hypothesized to constitute a monophyletic assemblage, along with Hygrotus Stephens, based on one synapomorphy, absence of the primary pore ANf on antennomere 3. This paper shows that the presence of sublateral striae on the adult pronotum should be viewed as an homoplastic character state and that it cannot be used as an argument for relating Stictonectes to either Oreodytes Seidlitz or Neonectes J. Balfour-Browne.
4008887| Adults of 44 species of Dytiscidae (12 genera) were collected in typical wetland habitats of Qubec Hemiarctic. The fauna is characteristic of the boreal portion of the continent with some subarctic and arctic elements. Colymbetes dahuricus Aub is recorded for the first time from Qubec. Distinct assemblages of species in different habitats recorded are observed and the ecological distinction of the two similar species Ilybius picipes (Kirby) and I. angustior (Gyllenhal) is documented. Ilybius angustior is typically associated with the rock pools while I. picipes is prevalent in palsa bogs pools. /// Les adultes de 44 espces de Dytiscidae (12 genres) ont t rcolts dans les principaux types de milieux constitutifs du paysage du Qubec hmiarctique. La faune recense est compose majoritairement d'espces borales auxquelles s'associent quelques lments caractristiques de la zone subarctique et arctique. Colymbetes dahuricus Aub est recense pour la premire fois au Qubec. Diffrents regroupement d'espces sont observs et la distinction cologique entre Ilybius picipes (Kirby) et I. angustior (Gyllenhal) est ralise pour la premire fois. Ilybius angustior est typiquement associe aux mares de rochers tandis que I. picipes montre un nette prfrence pour les mares de tourbires  palses. 
29739204|Pseudotriphyllus defoei new species represents the first North American species record of this predominantly Eurasian mycetophagid genus. The species is known from two specimens recovered from a single Berlese sample in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Tennessee (type locality, Albright Grove Loop Trail). It differs from other described Pseudotriphyllus by setal pattern, color, development of the pronotal lateral carina, size of the male prosternal fovea, and details of the aedeagus. The genus may be distinguished from all other North American mycetophagid genera by the presence of a median prosternal fovea on males and the width of the last antennal segment, which is narrower than the penultimate antennomere.
4008755|New synonymies, new species, and notes on Scolytidae from the eastern United States are presented. New synonymies proposed are: Hylastes tenuis Eichhoff 1868 (= H. exilis Chapuis 1869), Chramesus chapuisii LeConte 1876 (= C. wisteriae Wood 1974), and Hylocurus rudis (LeConte 1876) (= H. torosus Wood 1971). Phloeotribus pseudoscabricollis from southern Texas, Hylocurus carinifrons from Florida, and Hylocurus floridensis from Florida are described as new and included in modifications to existing keys. Morphological notes on Hylocurus binodatus Wood including a description of the male are included. Significant range extensions for Carphoborus bicornus Wood and Pseudothysanoes phoradendri Blackman are reported.
4008417|A checklist is provided for the 84 species and subspecies of Coccinellidae known from Wyoming; 16 of these are reported as new records for the state. Another 46 taxa are included because they are reported in the literature from bordering states. The 130 species and subspecies represent 34 genera (including 5 subgenera), 10 tribes, and 6 subfamilies.
4008383|Investigations of Nevada sand dunes reveal two undescribed taxa from isolated areas, Serica ammomenisco Hardy (Crescent Dune) and S. psammobunus Hardy (Sand Mountain); both are related to S. humboldti Gordon. A possible explanation for the isolation of Serica species on desert dunes is considered in relation to the past geological and botanical history of the Great Basin.
4008360|Acanthoscelides johnique, a new species from the West Indies, is described and the dorsal aspect, antenna, hind leg, and male genitalia are figured. The species has no known hosts.
40664405|Habitats, host plants, and preliminary biological notes are documented for Oncocephala promontorii Pringuey, 1898 for the first time. The beetle occurs in open areas of coastal grassland, forest margin, and disturbed urban areas where their Convolvulaceae host plants are found. Seven host plants are verified for the species in the fieldConvolvulus arvensis L., Convolvulus farinosus L., Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam., Ipomoea ficifolia Lindl., Ipomoea obscura (L.) Ker Gawl., Ipomoea wightii (Wall.) Choisy, and an unidentified Ipomoea sp. Ipomoea purpurea (L.) Roth is recorded as a host from museum specimen labels. Two additional plants, Ipomoea cairica (L.) Sweet and Ipomoea coccnea L., showed feeding traces that we attribute to O. promontorii. The larvae are solitary miners that produce curvilinear to vermiform mines in the host plant leaves. Pupation is solitary in a separate pupal chamber/mine in the leaf. Imagines are generally solitary, exposed folivores that produce narrow linear feeding trenches in the dorsal leaf surface. Copulation is commonly observed on the dorsal leaf surface.
4008867|A faunal study of the long-horned beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) from the 37 counties comprising north-central Texas produced records of 107 species and subspecies. Represented are 68 genera and 36 tribes from four subfamilies. Natural history observations including information on distribution, seasonal occurrence, and host vegetation are given for each taxon. Comments on morphological variation and taxonomic problems are included. Lists of county records accompany each species account.
4008675|In this paper I designate lectotypes for 29 species of Oriental Limnichidae in 5 genera, including 13 species in Byrrhinus, 4 in Caccothryptus, 6 in Limnichus, 1 in Mandersia, and 5 in Pelochares.
4008959|Schaphinotus longiceps Van Dyke has been known from only two localities (Orick and Arcata, Humboldt County, CA), in old-growth coast redwood forest. Both sites have been extensively clearcut since the last collections in these areas 60 years ago. A new record for this species is from a collection-site in old-growth Douglas-fir in Mendocino County, about 125 km south of the previous localities. Habitat at the new site is described and other associated carabid species are reported.
4008031|Three species of Pachyonyx have been recorded from South Africa. All are gallincitants on wild legumes. A short diagnosis, with illustrations of genitalia of each species, is given. An account of the biology of P. niveus Marshall, bred from Acacia, is given and the larva, pupa and adult are illustrated.
4009144| The duration of all pre-imaginal stages of Epierus divisus Marseul was determined. This is the first developmental study for Epierus Erichson. At 25C, the egg stage was completed in 10-12 days, that of the first instar larva in 8-15 days, the second instar in 6-8 days, the prepupa in 7-8 days, and pupa in 10-12 days. Developmental rates of the subcortical E. divisus were compared directly to the dung/carrion-associated histerid Euspilotus assimilis (Paykull) and found to be significantly longer for all developmental stages. Developmental rates of E. divisus were also compared to developmental rates reported in the literature for several other species of histerids that develop in association with ephemeral systems. 
4008218|Abaris splendidula (LeConte), new combination, from the southwestern United States and Mexico is redescribed and compared with the other known species of the genus from Mexico. It is the first record of the genus Abaris for North America north of Mexico.
4008593|The dryopid genus Helichus Erichson is subdivided into Helichus s. str. and Postelichus gen. nov.; type species respectively are lithophilus Germar and thoracicus Hinton. The two genera are consistently separable on the basis of several external characters as well as internal reproductive features in both sexes. Six valid species are presently known for Postelichus and ten for Helichus, but additional species remain to be described. Both genera are restricted to the Western Hemisphere.
3999708|The life history and ecology of Calligrapha spiraeae (Say) on Physocarpus opulifolius in Virginia are discussed. Eggs are laid on the underside of the food plant leaves, on which the first 3 larval instars feed. Third instar larvae enter soil where a fourth larval molt occurs, preceeding pupation. Adults emerge in early August, over-winter, and mate in the spring. One egg parasite was observed, and mention is also made of possible larval and adult parasites.
4009062| Rhinopteryx werneri, new species, is described on specimens from Congo, Kenya, Tanzania, and South Africa. It is closely related to Rhinopteryx foveipennis (J. Thomson), from which it is distinguished by external form and genitalic structure. A lectotype of R. foveipennis is also designated. /// Viene descritta Rhinopteryx werneri, n. sp., di Congo, Kenya, Tanzania e Sud Africa. La nuova specie viene comparata, sulla base dei caratteri della morfologia esterna e dell'apparato copulatore, con R. foveipennis is (J. Thomson), di cui  designato il lectotypus. 
4008170|Two new species of Hydroporus (Neoporus) are described and illustrated: H. asidytus, type locality in Liberty Co., Florida, is widely distributed in the Coastal Plain from Mississippi to South Carolina and H. baelus appears to be limited in distribution to the Appalachicola Flatwoods of western Florida. Hydroporus asidytus is close to H. carolinus Fall and H. baelus resembles H. hebes Fall. Both new species are distinguishable by body form, punctation, color pattern, and male external genitalia.
4000173|Three new species of Neotropical prionine Cerambycidae are described: Derancistrus michelii from Puerto Rico; Derobrachus dentipes from Costa Rica; and Prionus howdeni from Mexico.
4009592|A new species of Shigizo Morimoto discovered in the collection of Dr. Charles W. O'Brien, collected on the Island of Borneo, Sarawak, Malaysia, in a Malaise trap, is described as Shigizo obrieni new species.
4009937| The behavior and mating duration of virgin Lasioderma serricorne adults was studied under two sets (temperatures 27.5  0.5C and 24  0.5C, Rh 65  3% and 75  3% correspondingly) of controlled climatic conditions. It was found that copulation, estimated from the moment the adults were found in "end to end" position up to the moment that the male and female separated from each other, fluctuated from 48 to 130 min for the two above mentioned conditions. No statistically significant differences were observed between the two sets of controlled climatic conditions used (dt = 78, t = 1.3, P = 0.197). Although damage in stored tobacco is mainly caused by the insect's larvae, it was found that 4% of male and 9.4% of female adults also fed on dried tobacco leaves. 
3999689|Euphoriaspis hirtipes (Horn) is a myrmecophilous scarab that occurs only in portions of the prairie region of the central United States. The immature stages are passed within the thatch nests of the genus Formica. The eggs remain unknown, but the third instar larva and the pupa are described and illustrated.
4008028|A new cerambycid beetle, Curiosa dominicana, new genus and species (Curiini), from Dominican Republic is described and illustrated, generic characters are discussed, and a key to the genera in the tribe is presented. The new genus is distinguished from others in the tribe by having 10-segmented antennae and finely-faceted eyes.
27571160|A new species of Anillinus is described from the Ozark Region of central United States. Anillinus aleyae new species, is based on specimens collected in southern Missouri (36.5585N, 92.8134W). The discovery of this species extends the western part of the range of Anillinus approximately 170 km north of its closest known congeners from the Ouachita Mountains and is the first documented record of the genus from the Ozark Region. A key is provided that will allow separation of Anillinus species west of the Mississippi River.
3999670|A new species (Colopterus floridanus) from central Florida is described and figured. A key to the species of Colopterus occurring in America north of Mexico is included along with illustrations of some of the key characters.
3999937|Eight new species are described, including Enoclerus (Enoclerus) nigricans from Puebla; E. (E.) aethiops from Chiapas; E. (E.) ablusus from Chiapas; E. (E.) reburrus from Zacetas, Durango, Hidalgo, and Chiapas; E. (E.) signifer from Canal Zone and Costa Rica; E. (E.) pisinnus from Venezuela; E. (E.) nelsoni from Oaxaca; and E. (E.) irregularis from Honduras.
4009345| Meloe ajax, a new species of Meloe Linnaeus in the subgenus Treiodous Dugs from southern California chaparral, is described. It is closest to M. barbarus LeConte, another western species. The fact that this relatively large meloine blister beetle escaped attention until now may be due to extreme rarity, secretive habits, or both. Meloe is primarily a continental and montane genus in North America; its occurrence at the limits of its range in southern California is briefly summarized. 
4009738| Two new species of Lechriops are described from Arizona: L. variegatus n. sp. and L. chiricahuae n. sp. Lechriops oblongulus Champion, previously described from Durango, Mxico, is recorded for the first time from Arizona and is redescribed. These three species and L. californicus (LeConte) are associated with pines and Douglas fir and constitute the californicus group. A revision of Sleeper's (1963) key is given to separate the species of Lechriops in the United States and male genitalia are illustrated for the four species and for L. oculatus (Say). Other undescribed species in the californicus group are known from Mxico to Honduras. 
3999770|Two new species of the genus Psorolyma, sicardi and cyanella, are described, a key to species is provided, and a lectotype is designated for Psorolyma maxillosa Sicard.
4008052|A new genus and species, Cyptoxenus sigillatus, is described from Jamaica, West Indies. The genus has no close relatives in the New World.
4008987|Bispinatus capillatus, new species, is described from Thailand and Remigera securiformis Springer and Goodrich is redescribed. A key to the six known species of Platydascillinae and complete distributional data and maps are provided.
41316630|The previously monotypic genera Endroedianibe Chalumeau and Hispanioryctes Howden and Endrdi from the island of Hispaniola are revised. Endroedianibe xerozoyphius Ratcliffe and Cave, new species, (Pentodontini) and Hispanioryctes paulseni Ratcliffe and Cave, new species, Hispanioryctes rugulopygus Ratcliffe and Cave, new species, and Hispanioryctes sculptilis Ratcliffe and Cave, new species, (Oryctini) from Haiti and the Dominican Republic are described. Supporting illustrations, diagnoses, and keys to the species in each genus are provided. A key to the 11 genera of Dynastinae in Hispaniola is given.
4009828|Two new genera of Agathidiini are described and revised: Gelae Miller and Wheeler, new genus and Decuria Miller and Wheeler, new genus. Gelae differs from other agathidiines by having 11 antennomeres, a distinctly 3-segmented antennal club, no supraocular carina, no postocular temporum, 5-4-4 female tarsal formula and obsolete dorsal punctation, or, if present, inconspicuous and not serially arranged. Decuria differs from other agathidiines by having 10 antennomeres. The dramatically poor taxonomic condition of genera in the Agathidiini is discussed and problems are identified. A key to the genera of Agathidiini is presented. The following new combinations are proposed: Gelae parile (Fall), new combination, G. parvulum (LeConte), new combination, and G. cognatum (Matthews), new combination. Each are transferred from Agathidium Panzer. The following new species are described: Gelae rol, new species, G. fish, new species, G. donut, new species, G. baen, new species, G. belae, new species, and Decuria newtoni, new species. A lectotype is designated for Agathidium parile Fall.
4008435| The larva of Atranus pubescens (Dejean) is described and illustrated from specimens collected in Qubec, Ontario and Illinois. The species belongs to the Platynini and differs in the larval stage from other known species of the tribe by having the lacinia strongly acuminate, by having the anterior claw clearly longer than the posterior one and by having numerous small secondary setae on the urogomphi in the second and third instars. Atranus LeConte includes 2 species and A. pubescens is the first species of the genus to be described in the larval stage. The larva described as A. collaris Mntries was misidentified. 
4009343|Experiments carried out with Anoplophora chinensis suggest that mating behavior of males was stimulated by a contact female sex pheromone occurring on her body surface. Male antennae played a major role in sex recognition and visual cues were not important in eliciting a sexual response by males to females. Significant reduction of mating success rates occurred when six antennal segments of males were removed. This may be interpreted as either (1) most chemical receptors for the contact female sex pheromone were situated in the males' first six antennal segments, or (2) removal of six out of eleven antennal segments substantially reduced the males' ability to reach females with their antennae, or both (1) and (2).
4008210|Morphometry of key characters and cross-breeding were used to test whether Zophobas atratus (Fab.) and Z. rugipes Kirsch might be a single species. Morphometry readily distinguished two distinct types, but substantial reproductive compatibility between them indicated that they are probably morphs of a single species. Between-population hybrids were intermediate in the measured characters. The factors maintaining the morphological differences are unknown.
4008483|New distribution records of Eryniopsis lampyridarum (Thaxter) Humber, a poorly known entomopathogen of cantharid beetles, are given for Maryland and Pennsylvania from Chauliognathus marginatus (F.) and C. pennsylvanicus De Geer; attention is called to a generally overlooked paper reporting this fungus from C. pennsylvanicus in Virginia during 1908-09. Deaths of Cantharis oriflavus LeConte in New York are attributed to Zoophthora radicans (Brefeld) Batko, an entomophthoralean fungus that produces somewhat similar-appearing cadavers. Evidence also is presented to associate an entomophthoralean fungus as the probable causal agent of the "violent," mysterious deaths of Podabrus pruinosus LeConte reported in Oregon by Fender.
4009493|The distribution of Cicindela lepida Dejean (Coleoptera: Cicindelidae) was studied in central and northern New York State, southern Ontario, and western Quebec during periods of adult activity, 1995-1998. The species was widely distributed and locally abundant in sand pits and blowouts throughout the region but was not located in the Finger Lakes region or on dunes along the eastern shore of Lake Ontario. Adults were active from 5 July to 10 October, with mating observed only in August. Threats to the viability of extant populations include vegetation succession and excessive off-road vehicular traffic.
4009126|Newly recorded lampyrid hosts of the Nearctic and Neotropical Region phorid Apocephalus antennatus Malloch are a species of the Ellychnia corrusca (L.) complex, Lucidota atra (Oliver), Photinus marginellus LeConte, and P. pyralis (L.). Records of Ellychnia sp. and L. atra are the first for non-luminescent hosts. Larvae of A. antennatus feed, leave the host and pupariate within 3-5 days of collection, and adults emerge 13-20 days later. The Neotropical Region phorid A. insulanus Borgmeier was reared from Photinus sp. in Peru, and has a similar life history.
4008562| Seven new species are described: Amblyoproctus boondocksius (Brazil), Eophileurus tetraspermexitus (Burma), Hemiphileurus insularis (Brazil), H. jamesonae (Panama), Palaeophileurus brasiliensis (Brazil), P. marcusoni (Brazil), and Phileurus youngi (Panama). New distribution records are given for Amblyoproctus piliger (Perty), A. torulosus Kolbe, Archophileurus elatus Prell, Goniophileurus femoratus Burmeister, Hemiphileurus punctatostriatus Prell, Phileurus valgus (Olivier), and Planophileurus planicollis (Chevrolat). /// Sete novas espcies de Phileurini (Scarabaeidae: Dynastinae) so descritas. Estas so: Amblyoproctus boondocksius (Brasil), Eophileurus tetraspermexitus (Burma), Hemiphileurus insularis (Brasil), H. jamesonae (Panama), Palaeophileurus brasiliensis (Brasil), P. marcusoni (Brasil), e Phileurus youngi (Panama). Foram encontrodas novas localidades se distribuio para as espcies Amblyoproctus piliger (Perty), A. torulosus Kolbe, Archophileurus elatus Prell, Goniophileurus femoratus Burmeister, Hemiphileurus punctatostriatus Prell, Phileurus valgus (Olivier), and Planophileurus planicollis (Chevrolat). 
4009485| Observations in Costa Rica and Panama verify a previously hypothesized feeding relationship between the enigmatic chrysomelid subfamily, Aulacoscelinae, and the "living fossil" Cycadophyta. Large populations of adult Aulacoscelis sp. and A. costaricensis Bechyn were observed feeding on Zamia fairchildiana Gomez, a cycad native to lower Central America. Feeding was uncharacteristic of Chrysomelidae in that the mandibles were used to pierce the epidermis thereby releasing liquids which alone were ingested. Both species of Aulacoscelis Duponchal and Chevrolat also fed opportunistically on fronds damaged by adult Languriidae and larval Eumaeus goddarti (Hbner) (Lepidoptera, Lycaenidae) and on E. goddarti pupal exudates. Aulocoscelinae and Languriidae feeding was directed primarily at the first flush of cycad leaves produced at the beginning of the wet season--a pattern of adult beetle activity which collection records and observations indicate is widespread in Mexico and Central America. /// Observaciones hechas en Costa Rica y Panam comprueban que existe una relacin alimenticia, anterioramente hipottica, entre la enigmatica subfamilia de Coleopteros crisomelidos, Aulacoscelinae, y los "fsiles vivientes" Cycadophyta. Aulacoscelis sp. y A. costaricensis Becheyn fueron observadas alimentandose de Zamia fairchildiana Gomez, una Cycadaceae nativa en Amrica Central. La forma de alimentarse era inusual en Chrysomelidae, donde las mandbulas fueron usadas para pinchar la epidermis, dejando asi aflorar lquidos que fueron ingeridos. De manera oportunstica ambas especies de Aulacoscelis Duponchal and Chevrolat aprovecharon el dao hecho por adultos de la familia Languriidae, larvas de Eumaeus goddarti (Hbner) (Lepidoptera, Lycaenidae) y exudados de pupas de E. goddarti para alimentarse. Adultos de Aulocoscelinae y Languriidae atacaron la primer produccin de hojas al inicio de la poca lluviosa, patrn que es commn con el resto de Amrica Central y Mxico. 
4008665|Caryobruchus gleditsiae is redescribed and compared with Caryobruchus marieae, a new species described from Cuba. Morphometrics is used for various structures rather than the usual size and dimensions. A band on the lateral lobes of the male genitalia is named in honor of J. M. Kingsolver.
4008373|Brathinus nitidus LeConte (Omaliinae) is recorded for the first time from Arkansas, U.S.A. The collection site, in the Ozark Mountains, is very close to the type locality of the tachyporine staphylinid Derops divalis (Sanderson). Derops and Brathinus adults have similar habitats: wet leaf litter by water courses. Each of these two genera has representatives in North America and eastern Asia. Brathinus varicornis LeConte is reported for the first time from Connecticut and Vermont, U.S.A. A new key to the three Nearctic species is presented.
4000006|Larvae of Neotylopterus pallidus develop in seeds of Forestiera acuminata, 1 larva per seed, then exit from the fruits and pupate in the soil beneath the host plant. Rates of emergence of larvae from dry fruits and from fruits found in water beneath F. acuminata trees and kept in water are compared. Larvae remained in fruits as long as the fruits were kept in water, but began to emerge soon after the fruits were permitted to dry. Analysis of morphological characters of larvae and pupae indicates that Neotylopterus is properly placed in the subfamily Tychiinae, and should not be assigned to Anthonominae, as has been previously done.
27571092|The Mexican dung beetle species Liatongus monstrosus (Bates) is redescribed and made the type of Attavicinus new genus. The phylogenetic evidence for the creation of this taxon and its biology and close association with the debris piles of the leaf cutter ant, Atta mexicana (Smith), are discussed. Information on the restricted distribution in Jalisco and Michoacn and the biogeography and systematics of this genus and the other New World members of the Oniticellini is also included.
29739212|We use carbon and nitrogen isotope data to elucidate the diets of larval and adult Brychius hungerfordi Spangler in streams in Northern Lower Michigan. Diet analysis suggests that feeding behavior during the larval life stage is different from that of the adult. Larvae appear to prefer the alga Dichotomosiphon tuberosus (Braun) Ernst. Adults appear to be generalists, feeding on Dichotomosiphon, Cladophora Kuetzing and Chara Linnaeus as well as the epiphytic diatom Cocconeis Ehrenberg. Dichotomosiphon, although widespread, is not common. Its presence may be an important factor in determining the distribution of the Federally endangered beetle.
4007881|Surutu fenni n. sp. and Surutu hesperius n. sp. are described from the Amazon Basin of Brazil. Surutu seabrai D'Andretta and Martinez is recorded from the Brazilian state of Amazonas for the first time. A key to the species is presented.
4008677|Additional data on taxonomy, nomenclature, bionomics, and geographical distribution of 38 species are presented.
4009818| Alyma Arias, a new genus of Elateridae from Chile, is here described and illustrated with eight included species: A. pallipes (Solier), new combination, A. ariasvillegasai Arias, new species, A. calafquenensis Arias, new species, A. contulmoensis Arias, new species, A. lawlerae Arias, new species, A. quiriquinaensis Arias, new species, A. rieseorum Arias, new species, and shapiroi Arias, new species. The type species of the genus Alyma is Cardiophorus pallipes Solier, 1851. /// Se presenta para Chile un nuevo gnero Alyma Arias con ocho especies: A. pallipes (Solier) nueva combinacin, A. ariasvillegasai Arias, nueva especie, A. calafquenensis Arias, nueva especie, A. contulmoensis Arias, nueva especie, A. lawlerae Arias, nueva especie, A. quiriquinaensis Arias, nueva especie, A. rieseorum Arias, nueva especie, A. shapiroi Arias, nueva especie, las que se describen e ilustran. La especie tipo del gnero Alyma es Cardiophorus pallipes Solier, 1851. 
4009731|The adult morphology of Meibomeus cyanipennis (Sharp) is described and illustrated. Structures such as the tentorium, mouthparts, endosternites, hind wings and female terminalia were studied for the first time in the genus.
3999928|Flight periods of Myrmecaphodius excavaticollis (Blanchard) and Euparia castanea Serville in Florida were determined by using blacklight traps. E. castanea was collected from February through October, but the main flight period extended from May through September. The peak flight period of M. excavaticollis occurred in June and July with almost continuous flights from May until October, and additional flights occurred in warm periods during the winter. No correlation was found between flight periods, air or soil temperatures, or rainfall. Also, no correlation was apparent between beetle flights and the mating flights of the host ants.
40389465|False wireworms are larvae of the darkling beetle genus "Eleodes" Eschscholtz, some of which are agricultural pests of dryland wheat. Because of the large number of species in the genus (approximately 235), identifications can be problematic. Hence, regional keys are of great utility. Within the state of Texas a total of 31 species are known to occur: E. acutus, E. arcuatus, E. carbonarius, E. caudiferus, E. debilis, E. delicatus, E. dissimilis, E. easterlai, E. extricatus, E. fusiformis, E. goryi, E. gracilis, E. hispilabris, E. knullorum, E. labialis, E. longicollis, E. mirabilis, E. neomexicanus, E. nigrinus, E. obscurus, E. opacus, E. pedinoides, E. spiculiferus, E. spinipes, E. sponsus, E. striolatus, E. suturalis, E. tenuipes, E. tricostatus, E. veterator, and E. wenzeli. Herein we provide a key with illustrations and a brief diagnosis for the adult of each Texas species, along with notes on ecology, distribution, and pest status. /// Los gusanos de alambre falsos son larvas del gnero tenebrinido "Eleodes" Eschscholtz, de los cuales algunos son plagas de trigo en zonas ridas. Debido al alto numro de especies de este gnero (alrededor de 235), las identifcaciones pueden ser problemticas. Por ese motivo, la disponibilidad de claves regionales puede ser de gran utilidad. Dentro del estado de Texas, se conoce un total de 31 especies: E. acutus, E. arcuatus, E. carbonarius, E. caudiferus, E. debilis, E. delicatus, E. dissimilis, E. easterlai, E. extricatus, E. fusiformis, E. goryi, E. gracilis, E. hispilabris, E. knullorum, E. labialis, E. longicollis, E. mirabilis, E. neomexicanus, E. nigrinus, E. obscurus, E. opacus, E. pedinoides, E. spiculiferus, E. spinipes, E. sponsus, E. striolatus, E. suturalis, E. tenuipes, E. tricostatus, E. veterator y E. wenzeli. Aqu proveemos una clave dictoma con ilustraciones y un breve diagnstico para los adultos de cada especie conocida de Texas, U.S.A., con notas sobre su ecologa, distribucin, e importancia como plaga.
4009619| Lyreus alleni Ivie and lipiski, new species, is described from a limestone sinkhole in Alabama. This is the first record of the genus from the New World. Illustrations of the new species and the European L. subterraneus Aub are provided to aid in identification. 
4009942| This study describes the nesting behavior of Uroxys terminalis Waterhouse and reports the preimaginal developmental rates under laboratory conditions (22C and 60% RH). U. terminalis constructs paracoprid nests containing one brood mass. The mean developmental time from egg to adult was 90  6.95 days. Mean duration of each pre-imaginal stage was: egg = 10  2.40 days; larva = 55  4.94 days; and pupa = 19  4.28 days. 
4008871|A second species of the genus Leptopinara, L. flemingi Anderson, is described from Cattail Falls, Big Bend National Park, Texas. The species is distinguished from L. papillata O'Brien by considerably larger body size, aspects of structure of the apex of the tibiae, body vestiture, and female genitalia. The only known specimen was collected in a berlese sample of mesic hardwood leaf litter.
4009004|Orizabus subaziro Ratcliffe, new species, is described from Oaxaca, Mexico. Distinguishing characters are discussed and a modified key couplet is provided to enable identification and separation from other similar species.
4008590| The North American genera of the subfamily Cryptophaginae are reviewed. The subfamily includes nine genera: Salebius Casey 1900, Cryptophagus Herbst 1792, Henotiderus Reitter 1877, Henoticus Thomson 1868, Pteryngium Reitter 1887, Antherophagus Latreille 1829, Caenoscelis Thomson 1863, Sternodea Reitter 1875 and a new genus, Myrmedophila Bousquet (type species: Emphylus americanus LeConte 1879). Four genus group names are treated as new junior subjective synonyms, namely, Crosimus Casey 1900 and Henoticoides Hatch 1962 (= Henotiderus Reitter 1877), Glyptophorus Park 1929 (= Henoticus Thomson 1868) and Macrodea Casey 1924 (= Caenoscelis Thomson 1863). Two species group names, Cryptophagus blumi Blaisdell 1937 (= Myrmedophila americana LeConte 1879) and Henoticoides parsonsi Johnson 1972 (= Henotiderus obesulus Casey 1900), are treated as new junior synonyms. Six new combinations are proposed, namely Henotiderus obesulus (Casey 1900), Henotiderus hirtus (Casey 1900), Henotiderus lorna (Hatch 1962), Henoticus mycetoecus (Park 1929), Myrmedophila americana (LeConte 1879) and Caenoscelis antennalis (Casey 1924). The type species are designated for Salebius Casey 1900 (Salebius sexdentatus Casey 1900 = Cryptophagus octodentatus Mklin 1852), Cryptophagistes Crotch 1873 (Dermestes cellaris Scopoli 1763) and Crosimus Casey 1900 (Crosimus obesulus Casey 1900). The generic name Emphylus Erichson 1848, erected for the European Cryptophagus glaber Gyllenhal, is replaced by Spavius Motschulsky 1844. A key is presented for the North American genera of Cryptophaginae and a diagnostic description, distributional data and comments are included for each genus. 
27571145|One of the distinctive aspects of members of the Scarabaeidae family is the use of mammal dung as a food source, although some species may use other resources. One of the most interesting variations is the association with fruits and flowers of the genus Gustavia of the family Lecythidaceae. Eurysternus plebejus Harold individuals were discovered feeding on the decaying petals of Gustavia hexapetala (Aublet) Smith, an association unknown until now. It was not possible to confirm the use of petals as a resource for constructing nest-balls. Eurysternus plebejus is attracted to other sources of food such as mammal dung and carrion, so it appears to be a faculative generalist species that can use a wide range of available food sources. The petals of G. hexapetala constitute an additional food source that is less ephemeral than dung and an excellent alternative given to its coexistence with a high number of species in the area. A detailed study of E. plebejus using petals and a morphological study of its digestive tract, in order to confirm the pattern described for its nesting are recommended. Continuing to search for new food sources in assemblages with strong competition pressures is equally important. /// Uno de los aspectos distintivos de los miembros de la familia Scarabaeidae es la utilizacin del excremento de mamferos como fuente de alimento, aunque algunas especies utilizan otros recursos. Una de las variaciones ms interesantes es la asociacin con frutos y flores, del gnero Gustavia de la familia Lecythidaceae. Se encontraron varios individuos de Eurysternus plebejus Harold utilizando los ptalos en descomposicin como recurso alimenticio, una asociacin hasta el momento desconocida. No se logr corroborar la utilizacin de los ptalos como fuente para la construccin de bolas-nido. Eurysternus plebejus es atrado por otras fuentes de alimento como excremento de diferentes mamferos y carroa en descomposicin. Al parecer E. plebejus es una especie de tipo generalista facultativa, que puede utilizar un amplio rango de posibles fuentes alimenticias. Los ptalos de G. hexapetala constituyen una fuente de alimento agregada y no tan efmera como el excremento, siendo una excelente alternative frente a la coexistencia con un alto nmero de especies en la zona. Se recomienda un seguimiento detallado de la utilizacin por parte de E. plebejus de los ptalos, que permita corroborar el patrn descrito para su nidificacin, y un estudio de la morfologa de su tracto digestivo. Igualmente es importante continuar la bsqueda de nuevas fuentes alimenticias, en ensamblajes con fuertes presiones de competencia.
4009468| Glipidiomorpha atraterga, new species, and G. rufiterga new species (Mordellidae) are described based on specimens from Yunnan Province, China. The former also occurs in Hong Kong. The two species are compared and keyed with three other mainland Chinese species. Glipidiomorpha alboscutellata (Kno) new combination, from Taiwan, is transferred from Glipa LeConte. The genus now contains 18 species worldwide that are markedly disjunct in distribution. 
4009121|An annotated list of all known examples of mimicry involving members of the family Cleridae arranged according to the system proposed by Corporaal in the Coleopterorum Catalogus is provided. Trends in the evolution of mimicry within clerid genera, groups of genera, and subfamilies are discussed. In general, clerids most frequently mimic other species of Coleoptera (mimicked by species of 31 clerid genera), followed closely by aculeate Hymenoptera (mimicked by species of 24 clerid genera), while zygaenid moths and tachinid flies are mimicked by species of one and two genera of Cleridae, respectively. The coloration patterns employed in the latter two mimetic complexes are hypothesized to have evolved through exaptation of coloration patterns used in other mimetic interactions and in cryptic camouflage. The relation of mimicry in Cleridae to clerid biology and the use of characters evolved through mimetic interactions in reconstruction of phylogenies of groups within the family Cleridae are discussed.
4008114| Born early in the second decade of the 19th Century, Chaudoir inherited from his predecessors a taxonomic system that: attempted to reflect in its structure of taxa and categories the structure of nature itself; had a stable system of categories; and had a relatively stable nomenclature (though use of individual names was in a state of flux). The system tolerated and encouraged a world view of taxa, and specialization on classification of groups of family rank, pursued on a world-wide basis. (The potential to do work of this sort improved throughout the century, thanks to imperialist exploitation of the rest of the world, with the exploiters sending back to Western Europe not only money and standard goods of commerce, but also biological materials, in abundance.) Chaudoir was born into a social level at which pursuit of knowledge was recognized as acceptable, and into a segment of Russian society that had been especially selected for pursuit of knowledge. In addition to these birthrights, he inherited money enough so that he did not have to work for it, and along with this came time needed to think and study, and to travel. His interest in natural history was encouraged by a tutor, and his father's interest in intellectual pursuits no doubt influenced the young Chaudoir, as well. Chaudoir's extensive travels in Western Europe brought him into contact with the principal European coleopterists of the 19th Century, and he knew many of those who lived elsewhere, through correspondence. His nature no doubt influenced him both to seek kindred spirits, and to hold their friendship for a lifetime. His wealth allowed Chaudoir not only to travel and the opportunity thus to study types and material collected by others, but also to purchase specimens and entire collections of carabid beetles. These purchases first supplemented and later supplanted his own field work. The material obtained was examined with care, and was arranged in boxes according to taxonomic position--that is, specimens in each new collection were integrated with material previously obtained (this is inferred from present arrangement of the material). This extensive, composite collection, plus study of type material of other authors, enabled Chaudoir to do authoritative taxonomic work. Descriptions of taxa, based on careful observations, were detailed and consistent. Chaudoir was especially attentive to structure of maxillae and labia, and many were removed for critical examination. The dissected parts were mounted on cards, and placed on pins next to the specimens from which they were removed. Chaudoir's published work consists principally of revisions of tribes and highly diverse genera: that is, he published few isolated descriptions of new species, or treatments of genera with few species, evidently preferring to deal with these in a more inclusive taxonomic context. He did not propose a general classification of carabids, and his views on this topic must be inferred from arrangement of taxa in his collection. Even the basis for such inference is imperfect because many boxes are missing, and specimens of some taxa have been placed in the Collection Gnrale of the Paris Museum. Arrangement of the Chaudoir Collection follows generally the system proposed by Lacordaine, one of Chaudoir's associates. However, the sequence of taxa in the collection indicates many differences, most re-groupings being more like current notions about relationships of taxa. Chaudoir's legacy is practical rather than theoretical. It includes a series of monographs that systematized an important array of carabid taxa. He extended, improved, and worked out in detail the more general system of Lacordaire. Complementing this published work is the vast collection of carabids that he amassed, and that is the principal source of voucher material from Western Europe of the 19th Century. Through Chaudoir, we receive a virtually unbroken line of materials and ideas associated therewith, that spans most of 19th Century, and most parts of the world. 
4009979|New records of Corylophidae from the Maritime Provinces of Canada are reported. Eight species are added to the Nova Scotia fauna, two species to the New Brunswick fauna, and one species to that of Prince Edward Island. Four species, Clypastrea fuscum Harold, Clypastrea lunata (LeConte), Rypobius marinus LeConte, and Gloeosoma hesperus (Casey) are reported for the first time in Canada. The bionomics of the group and questions of their distribution in the Maritime Provinces are briefly discussed.
3999776|Clinidium (Arctoclinidium) allegheniense n. sp. and Clinidium allegheniense georgicum n. ssp. are described and illustrated. A revised key to Clinidium of the U.S. is provided.
4007980|Microplatynus, n. subg., is proposed for Platynus (Microplatynus) pecki, n. sp., an unusually small, micropterous carabid beetle from alpine spruce forest in the Sierra Blanca, Lincoln Co., New Mexico. The species is described and illustrated.
3999710|This new monotypic genus (and new species) of Brazilian cactus feeding weevil, being considered as a biological control agent for Eriocereus cactus in Australia, is described. Outline illustrations of its habitus and of the male and female genitalia are included, as are diagnoses of related or similar neotropical genera.
4009755| A new species of Mayetia Mulsant and Rey, Mayetia (Mayetia) ramon, is described from Galicia (northwest Spain). The type locality is: Monastery of Caaveiro, A Capela (A Corua). Mayetia ramon is similar to M. (Mayetia) perezinigoi Outerelo in that both share mandibles with a simple tooth and a horse-shoe shaped cleft in the male pygidial sternite. The species' affinities with the M. ochsi Coiffait group of species are analyzed. This species was found in the humus layer of an Atlantic mixed forest. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Mayetia Mulsant y Rey, Mayetia (Mayetia) ramon de Galicia (noroeste de Espaa). La localidad tpica es: Monasterio de Caaveiro, A Capela (A Corua). Mayetia ramon es prxima a M. (Mayetia) perezinigoi Outerelo teniendo en cuenta que ambas presentan las mandbulas con diente simple y una incisin en herradura en el esternito pigidial masculino. Se analizan sus relaciones con el grupo de especies de M. ochsi Coiffait. La especie se encontr en un bosque mixto atlntico, viviendo en la capa de humus. 
3999535|Two new species of Cephaloscymnus, mexicanus and minutus, are described, and additional distribution data are listed for some previously described species.
4008467|Four species are recognized for the genus Xerasia Lewis: X. variegata Lewis, X. meschniggi (Reitter), X. grisescens (Jayne), and X. punica, new species. Xerasia punica, a new species from southern Turkey, Lebanon, Syria and Israel, is described and illustrated, and a taxonomic key to the species of the world is provided.
4007986|A new species of Coccinellidae, Nexophallus popei, is described from Trinidad. A key to all species of the genus is included and specific relationships discussed. Reference is made to the possible scale feeding habits of members of the genus.
4009554| Procoilodes adrastus Ocampo (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea: Hybosoridae), a new genus and species of fossil hybosorid, is described from the Dominican Republic. The fossil is embedded in amber resin of Hymenaea protera Poinar (Leguminosae) and dates from the Miocene. /// Se describe Procoilodes adrastus Ocampo (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea: Hybosoridae), un nuevo gnero y especie de hybosrido de Repblica Dominicana. Este fsil esta includo en ambar originado de la resina de Hymenaea protera Poinar (Leguminosae) y data del Mioceno. 
4008164|Eleodes armatus LeConte, the pinacate beetle, occurs throughout the warm deserts and intermontane valleys of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. It is a scavenger, feeding mainly on plant and animal detritus, and it hides in rodent burrows during times of temperature extremes. Adult activity peaks in the fall but it may occur at any time of the year. Females produce several hundred eggs per season and adults may live for more than 1 year. Larvae are fossorial and require 9 months to develop. The broad ecological, geographical, temporal and dietary range of this beetle may be in part attributable to its defense mechanisms (repugnatorial secretions and allied behavior) against vertebrate predators.
4007884|An attack on a neonate garter snake by a Dytiscus sp. larva was witnessed. The snake died within 7 minutes of the attack.
3999623|Ecological notes are recorded from observations made during collecting trips throughout western U.S. during the last few years. To these have been added the sparse published notes. Specific subjects discussed are: unexplainable aberrant behavior; foliage preferences in different areas; feeding habits; moisture requirements; temperature or humidity; escape mechanisms; and ambiguous associates.
4008451|Liodessus affinis (Say) and Agabus disintegratus (Crotch) (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae) were collected in dry, waterfowl refuge ponds in the Sacramento Valley of California. The beetles were recovered from grass sod collected from the field and later submersed in water in the laboratory. Adult L. affinis were collected only once shortly after the pond dried up, whereas A. disintegratus adults were collected up to a month after the ponds had dried. Grass sod apparently provides these beetles with a partial refuge from dessication.
4007983|New records are given for Ptomaphagus shapardi and P. cavernicola, cryptic inhabitants of deep litter or caves of the Ozark Region and Texas.
4542974| Twenty-two species are recognized in the genus Dendrocellus Schmidt-Gbel 1846. Seven of them are described as new to science: D. bicoloripennis, new species (type locality: 18 km SSE of Chisenga, Jembya Reserve, Malawi); D. inexpectus, new species (type locality: Barway, India); D. javanus, new species (type locality: Java, Indonesia); D. micropectinatus, new species (type locality: Abercorn, Zambia); D. nigripennis, new species (type locality: N. Kalimantan, Malaysia); D. queenslandicus, new species (type locality: Queensland, Australia), and D. sinicus, new species (type locality: Jiangxi, China). Four species or subspecies are considered as junior synonyms: Desera gilsoni gilsoni Dupuis, 1912, = Dendrocellus geniculatus (Klug 1834), new synonymy; Desera gilsoni continentalis Hansen 1967, = Dendrocellus geniculatus (Klug 1834), new synonymy; Dendrocellus parallelus Chaudoir 1872, = Dendrocellus coelestinus (Klug 1834), new synonymy; and Desera kulti recondita Hanson 1967, = Dendrocellus kulti (Jedlicka 1960) new synonymy. Drypta dimidiata Putzeys 1880, which was wrongly treated as a member of Dendrocellus, is returned to genus Drypta. Dendrocellus rugicollis Chaudoir is recognized as a distinct species, not a synonym of D. geniculatus (Klug). Lectotypes are designated for five species-group names: Dendrocellus gestroi Bates, Dendrocellus parallelus Chaudoir, Dendrocellus rugicollis Chaudoir, Dendrocellus ternatensis Chaudoir, and Desera schultzei Heller. A key to all known Dendrocellus species is provided. 
4009198|I examined types of three named forms and additional specimens of subgenus Megapangus Casey, and here recognize two species as valid. I present distribution records defining the range of Harpalus caliginosus Fabricius and Harpalus katiae Battoni. Variation in diagnostic characters previously used to separate the species and additional characters of the last exposed tergite, gonocoxae and internal sac of the aedeagus and their states are discussed.
4008241|Based on features of the adults, a new genus and new species of Alleculidae, Onychomira floridensis, is described from specimens taken at Archbold Biological Station, Highlands Co., Florida. This genus is referred to the subfamily Alleculinae, tribe Gonoderini. A key to the genera of the family occurring in America, north of Mexico, is presented. Essential features are illustrated with line drawings and scanning electron micrographs.
40983337|The preimaginal development of Onthophagus incensus Say from egg to adult was studied. Development time took about 38 d under laboratory conditions. The embryonic period was approximately 4 d, the larval period 22 d, and the pupal period 10 d. Adults emerged from the brood mass to the soil surface 2 d after cuticle color had darkened. Morphological structures of the head capsule, such as the mouthparts, epipharynx, maxillae, mandibles, and labium-hypopharynx, appear to remain unchanged throughout all instars. Certain characteristics, such as setae, become longer and more numerous, and developmental advance is observed in the gradual sclerotization of structures such as the oncyli, mandibles, and epitormae. The male's terminal ampulla is present and visible during all three instars.
4008497|New host and distribution records for 26 species of Apionidae are presented from North and Central America. New larval hosts for 21 species were determined by rearing from seeds or by collection of larvae. The host plants belong to the Leguminosae except for a questionable record from Ipomoea. There are two new state records for Arizona, Chrysapion tantillum (Sharp) and Apion acrophilum Fall, and one new state record for California, Apion contusum Smith.
29739209|Oxymorostes riedeli new genus and species is described from the Indonesian part of New Guinea. This new taxon is characterized by a number of unique characters: the presence of a deep excavation in the hypomeron and the unusually modified humeral area of the elytra. Its closest relationships seem to be within the newly defined "Perignamptus genus group", characterized by mouthparts morphology, including the presence of a large pore on the mandibular surface. This group gathers at least the Oriental/Australasian genera Madrasostes Paulian, Perignamptus Harold, and Macrophilharmostes Paulian as well as a few species currently placed in other genera.
4009355|The sequence of behaviors associated with the predation of Gauropterus chalybaeus (Mannerheim) on Canthon angustatus Harold is described, illustrating the predator strategy of removing prey appendages before consumption. Similar behaviors are described involving other predators on arthropods.
4007900|The presence of the crucifer-feeding flea beetles Phyllotreta bipustulata (F.), Phyllotreta conjuncta Gent., Phyllotreta armoraciae (Koch), and one or perhaps two undescribed Phyllotreta species in Saskatchewan is reported. These are in addition to five crucifer-feeding flea beetles already reported from rape crops in the province. None of the additional species appear to constitute a threat to rape or other cruciferous crops, except that P. armoraciae damages horseraddish.
3999921| Inpa psydroides, a new genus and species from near Manaus, Brazil, is described and illustrated. A revised key to New World genera and subgenera of Tachyina is provided, and generic ranges are given to supplement the key. Evolutionary and zoogeographic considerations are discussed with the following conclusions reached. Inpa and Mioptachys, a sister pair, are exclusively centered in the Neotropics. Their sister group is unknown, but it probably should be sought in Australia. Patterns of Tachyina evolution and distribution lead to a model which predicts greatest diversity in South America and Australia, with decreasing diversity toward peripheral areas. This pattern should prove common for many groups of carabids, particularly those with pre-Tertiary origins. /// Inpa psydroides, gen. n., sp. n. das proximidades de Manaus, Amazonas, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Apresenta-se chave atualizada para gneros e subgneros de Tachyina e sua distribuio. So ainda discutidos aspectos evolutivos e zoogeogrficos e apresentadas as seguintes conclusos. Inpa e Mioptachys, um grupo irmo ("sister pair"), so exclusiva mente Neotropicais. O grupo irmo ("sister group") desses gneros provavelmente seria encontrado na Austrlia, mas  ainda desconhecido. A distribuio dos Tachyina e seus padres evolutivos sugerem um modelo que apresentaria diversidade decrescente em direo s reas perifricas. Esse padro parece ser comum a muitos grupos de carabdeos, notadamente os de origem pr-Terciria. 
4009456|A key to the species of the Curculio alboscutellatus (Roelofs) species group from China and descriptions of new taxa are presented. Descriptions of the following new taxa are included: Curculio jilinensis new species, C. gressitti new species, C. krissiae new species, C. lisae new species, C. latusrostris new species, C. shopfneri new species, C. francisi new species, C. marioi new species, C. matthewi new species, C. ochromaculata new species, C. richardi new species. Also, redescriptions are provided of C. alboscutellatus (Roelofs), C. chevrolati (Faust), C. scutellaris (Chevrolat), C. simius spretus (Heller) and C. tonkinensis (Heller). Type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, Academia Sinica, Beijing, China and the California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, California.
4008930| A second species of Plesiosternus, punctatus n. sp., from Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Additional distribution records are given for Plesiosternus setosus Morn, Mesosternus halffteri Morn, Homoiosternus beckeri Ohaus, Paraheterosternus ludeckei (Becker), Parisoleoides pachytarsis Morn, Parisolea pallida (Candze) and Macropoides crassipes occidentalis Morn. /// Se describe e ilustra una segunda especie de Plesiosternus, colectada en las montaas hmedas al Norte de Oaxaca, Mxico, denominada P. punctatus. Algunas de sus caractersticas tegumentarias y genitales permiten relacionar ms a los gneros Plesiosternus y Mesosternus. Tambin se incluyen nuevos registros para la distribucin de Plesiosternus setosus Morn, Mesosternus halffteri Morn, Homoiosternus beckeri Ohaus, Paraheterosternus ludeckei (Becker), Parisoleoides pachytarsis Morn, Parisolea pallida (Candze) y Macropoides crassipes occidentalis Morn. 
4008975|The oviposition guilds of bruchid beetles are: bruchids oviposit (A) on the pod while on the plant (Mature pod guild), or (B) on seeds while on the plant (Mature seed guild), or (C) on seeds after they had been exposed on the substrate (Scattered seed guild). Stator vittatithorax (Pic), S. trisignatus (Sharp) and S. monachus (Sharp) are members of Guild A. Stator limbatus (Horn), S. pruininus (Horn), S. beali Johnson and S. championi (Sharp) are the members of Guild B. Stator chihuahua Johnson and Kingsolver, S. generalis Johnson and Kingsolver, S. pygidialis (Schaeffer), S. sordidus (Horn), S. testudinarius (Erichson) and S. vachelliae Bottimer are members of Guild C. We report upon and discuss the behavior and distribution of these species. Both generalist species of Stator, S. pruininus and S. limbatus, are in Guild B. Stator pruininus has been reported to feed in seeds of 55 host species and S. limbatus feeds in seeds of 74 host species. Species of Stator discussed here show a marked preference for seeds of species in the genus Acacia Miller.
4543017|Habitus photographs of holotypes and syntypes of Buprestidae (Coleoptera) in the Fernando de Zayas Collection, Havana, Cuba, are presented. Notes on the identities of the species are given. Peronaemis viridithorax Zayas 1988 is synonymized with Peronaemis monticola Fisher 1936.
4009270|During a recent expedition to Easter Island, we collected many carabid beetles by intensive pitfall trapping, time standardized hand collecting and light trapping. The beetles were Notiobia (Anisotarsus) cupripennis Germar and Metius chilensis Dejean. We review the current knowledge of these presumably introduced species including their detailed distribution on the island. Aspects of the biology and ecology of N. cupripennis on Easter Island are analyzed in more detail: (1) habitat and microhabitat preference, (2) variation in body size and dispersal power in relation to elevation, relative abundance and reproductive state of the beetles and (3) the incidence of flight activity in relation to climatic conditions.
4008762|Descriptions of structure of all three larval instars of Laccornis latens (Fall 1937) and of the mature larva of L. conoideus (LeConte 1850) are presented. The chaetotaxy of legs, last abdominal segment, and urogomphi are discussed in detail. Both species are compared with the two other known species of the genus Laccornis Des Gozis 1914, L. oblongus (Stephens 1835) and L. etnieri (Wolfe and Spangler 1985). The mature larvae of L. latens and L. conoideus appear quite similar to those of L. etnieri and L. oblongus, respectively. A diagnosis of the mature larva of the genus Laccornis is also suggested from these species.
29739210|Glycobius speciosus (Say) was at one time found throughout the range of its larval host tree, sugar maple (Acer saccharum) but is currently missing from part of this range. The apparent lack of G. speciosus across much of Midwestern U.S.A. was validated. The characteristic and long-lasting scars left by G. speciosus make the determination of an absence of this species quite reliable. The presence and extent of the extirpation was established using museum records, extensive roadside surveys of host trees, and intensive surveys of hardwood forest patches. Glycobius speciosus is currently not found in an area that includes much of north and central Indiana and north and central Ohio. This area has experienced higher levels of forest loss and fragmentation than adjacent regions where evidence of the beetle remains common and obvious.
4009668|The larvae and pupae of the Neotropical precinctive species, Macracanthus brevicillus (Chevrolat 1863), are described. Nasalar form of the Macracanthus Chaudoir larvae suggest closer relationship of this genus to Masoreus Dejean than to Anaulacus MacLeay, both latter masoreine genera being precinctive in the Old World.
27571121|Eight species of blind, wingless, amauropine pselaphines in the genus Arianops are described and placed in established species groups: in the amplyoponica group, A. obrieni, new species (type locality, Tyler County, Texas); in the nantahala group, A. carteri, new species (type locality, Union County, South Carolina); in the henroti group, A. clintoni, new species (type locality, Monroe County, Alabama); in the cavernensis group, A. ashei, new species (type locality, Butler County, Alabama), A. barri, new species (type locality, Jackson County, Alabama), A. folkertsi, new species (type locality, Walker County, Alabama), A. gorei, new species (type locality, Grunday County, Tennessee), and A. hiltenae, new species (type locality, Blount County, Tennessee). These species bring the total diversity of the genus to 42 species and one subspecies. Distributional updates and collection notes are provided for A. digitata Barr, A. extera Barr, and A. unicoi Barr, and the taxonomic status of numerous undetermined specimens is discussed. A putative male internal sac protruding from a female specimen of A. alticola Barr is described and illustrated. The species taxonomy of the genus is judged to be incompletely known despite the relatively large number of described species.
4009017|The genus Airosimus Howden is revised for Mesoamerica. Seven species are included: A. andersoni n. sp. (Costa Rica), A. boops (Champion) (Costa Rica, Panama), A. callifer (Voss) (Costa Rica, Mexico), A. erubescens (Champion) (Costa Rica, Panama), A. kissingeri n. sp. (Mexico), A. merulis Howden (Costa Rica), and A. pelodus (Warner) (Costa Rica). A neotype is designated for Pandeleteius callifer Voss. The type locality of A. lucileae Howden is corrected from Sabanilla, Costa Rica, to Sabanilla, Ecuador. The female genitalia of Airosimus are described and related to features of the male genitalia.
4009252|The neotropical genus Discopleurus is revised and characterized. Two new species, D. mesoamericanus and D. argentinensis, are described from Central America and Argentina respectively. A key to species is provided; the distribution and biology is briefly discussed. Phylogenetic position of the genus and relationships among species are proposed based on cladistic methodology.
4007950|The previously undescribed immature stages of Glaphyrocanthon viridis viridis (Beauvois) are illustrated and described. Laboratory biology, distribution, seasonal and daily activity patterns, food preference, and nidification are discussed.
4007878|The genus Amartus LeConte and two known species are redescribed, illustrated, and the world distribution mapped. A lectotype is selected for A. tinctus (Mann.) and a table is provided for separation of the species.
4008947| A new species of Diplotaxis from the Biosphere Reserve "Sierra de Manantln," State of Jalisco, Mexico, is described and diagnostic structures are illustrated. Previous keys to the genus Diplotaxis are modified to incorporate this new species. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Diplotaxis colectada en la Reserva de la Bisfera "Sierra de Manantln," Edo. de Jalisco, Mxico. Se modifican las claves del gnero Diplotaxis de Vaurie para inclur esta nueva especie. 
3999432|Grooming movements in Coleoptera are divided into 3 categories: 1) cleaning: appendages are passed through the mouth; 2) rubbing: with one or more legs; and 3) positioning: involving adjustment of the elytra, wings, or abdomen. Cleaning movements involve placing an antenna, palpus, fore-, mid-, or hindleg in the mouth, either with or without the assistance of another leg. Rubbing involves all possible combinations of a leg with another appendage or body surface and includes both unilateral and bilateral movements. Positioning includes elytral raising, wing extension and retraction, wing unfolding and refolding, and various body movements. Twenty-one basic grooming acts and over 50 modifications are described. The literature is reviewed and there is a discussion of variation and its possible sources. Data are from the following 38 families: Alleculidae, Anobiidae, Anthicidae, Anthribidae, Apionidae, Attelabidae, Bostrichidae, Bruchidae, Buprestidae, Cantharidae, Carabidae, Cerambycidae, Chrysomelidae, Cicindelidae, Cleridae, Coccinellidae, Cucujidae, Curculionidae, Dermestidae, Elateridae, Histeridae, Lampyridae, Languriidae, Meloidae, Melyridae, Mordellidae, Nemonychidae, Nitidulidae, Oedemeridae, Ptilodactylidae, Pyrochroidae, Rhynchitidae, Scaphidiidae, Scarabaeidae, Scolytidae, Silphidae, Staphylinidae, and Tenebrionidae.
4009779|New host or distribution records are presented for 14 species of tortoise beetles from South Africa and Zimbabwe: Aspidimorpha haefligeri Spaeth, A. tecta Boheman, Cassida ancorifera Boheman, C. circumflexa Spaeth, C. dorsovittata Boheman, C. innotata Boheman, C. lacrymosa Boheman, C. lueboensis Spaeth, Chiridopsis nigrosepta Fairmaire, Laccoptera cicatricosa (Boheman), Notosacantha badia (Boheman), N. junodi (Spaeth), N. nervosa (Spaeth), and N. vogeli (Weise). Cassida circumflexa Spaeth, collected in Zimbabwe, was previously only known from the type locality along the coast of Mozambique.
27571117|Odontocorynus Schnherr is reviewed and transferred from Madopterini, Zygobaridina to Madarini, Leptoschoinina (new placement). The included species occur from southern Canada to Costa Rica, but are absent on the Pacific side of the Rocky Mountains. Previous records from Brazil are rejected, and one collection from El Salvador is treated as suspect. Twelve known and four new species are recognized: O. calcarifer Prena new species [United States], O. creperus Boheman (type species; original designation), O. falsus (LeConte), O. histriculus Casey, O. larvatus (Boheman), O. latiscapus Champion, O. luteogramma Prena new species [Mexico], O. nunume Prena new species [Mexico], O. procerus Prena new species [Mexico], O. pulverulentus (Casey), O. salebrosus (Casey), O. subvittatus Casey, O. suturaflava Champion, O. tectus (Champion) new combination (from Geraeus Pascoe), O. townsendi (Casey) new combination (from Nicentrus Casey), and O. umbellae (Fabricius) new combination (from Baris Germar). Lectotypes are designated for O. falsus, O. larvatus, O. pulverulentus, O. salebrosus, and O. scutellumalbum (Say). The following new synonymies are proposed: O. creperus [=O. limatulus, O. subglaber, O. vernicicollis (all Casey 1920)]; O. larvatus [=Nicentrus contractus Casey 1892]; O. pulverulentus [=O. coloradensis, O. densissimus, O. lulingensis (all Casey 1920)]; O. salebrosus [=Centrinus denticornis, C. pinguescens (both Casey 1892), O. alternans, O. boonei, O. convergens, O. convexus, O. cribrum, O. dakotanus, O. dallasianus, O. defectus, O. greeleyi, O. ignotus, O. inflaticollis, O. inspectus, O. iowensis, O. latiusculus, O. longicollis, O. missourianus, O. ochreosus, O. onagensis, O. parallelus, O. parvus, O. pennianus, O. prominens, O. pusillus, O. quadricollis, O. regularis, O. robustus, O. rotundicollis, O. snowi, O. vicksburgensis (all Casey 1920)]; and O. umbellae [=Centrinus scutellumalbum Say 1831, O. advena, O. adjunctus, O. amputatus, O. atokanus, O. divisus, O. fultoni, O. illini, O. incertus, O. lineatellus, O. rufobrunneus, O. semiruber, O. subabruptus, O. subaffinis, O. unilineatus (all Casey 1920), O. amazonicus, O. fluviatilis, O. glabellus (all Casey 1922)]. A key for identification is provided.
4008240|Forty-five species or subspecies of Cerambycidae representing 6 subfamilies and 36 genera were collected from sticky traps placed on dead or stressed trees of the following species: maples (Acer spp.), sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua L.), water oak (Quercus nigra L.), blackjack oak (Quercus marilandica Muench.), bitternut hickory (Carya cordiformis K. Koch), persimmon (Diospyros virginiana L.) and blackgum (Nyssa sylvatica Marshall). New host data are presented for Euderces pini (Olivier) and 7 species are recorded for the first time from Alabama.
4009728| The third instar larvae of Xyloryctes furcatus Burmeister from Hidalgo, Mxico and X. lobicollis Burmeister from Chiapas, Mxico, are described. Drawings of diagnostic structures and a key to the third stage larvae of Xyloryctes jamaicensis (Drury), X. thestalus Bates, X. furcatus and X. lobicollis, are included. /// Se describen las larvas de tercer estadio de Xyloryctes furcatus Burmeister y de X. lobicollis Bates con ejemplares recolectados en localidades de Hidalgo y Chiapas, Mxico, respectivamente. Se ilustran las estructuras diagnsticas y se presenta una clave para separar las larvas de X. jamaicensis Drury, X. thestalus Bates, X. furcatus y X. lobicollis. 
4009753|Larvae of Desicasta laevicostata (van de Poll 1886) (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Cetoniinae: Gymnetini) were found developing in living stalk tissue of the bromeliad Vriesea sanguinolenta Cogn. and Marchal (Bromeliaceae) in Panama. This is the first record of Cetoniinae using living plant tissue as a larval substratum. The male of this species is described for the first time and its aedeagus is figured.
4543010| La biznaga, Ferocactus gracilis, se ha encontrado ser una nueva planta husped para el adulto de Moneilema michelbacheri Linsley (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae), en Baja California, Mxico. Este registro hace un total de nueve Cactceas con las que este escarabajo ha sido asociado (seis como plantas huspedes y tres como registros incidentales). 
4009617| New species of Phyllophaga Harris in the subgenera Phyllophaga (s.str.) and Phytalus Erichson are described from the montane cloud forests located at 1,900-2,300 m of altitude in the Biosphere Reserve Sierra de Manantln, Jalisco-Colima, Mxico. Phyllophaga (s.str.) sayloriana new species and P. (s.str.) manantleca new species are included in the "pubicauda" species group; P. (s.str.) joyana new species is included in the "xanthe" species group; P. (Phytalus) dugesiana new species and P. (Phytalus) jalisciensis new species are included in the "bucephala" species group. Drawings of male genital capsules, tarsal claws, and female genital plates of the new species are provided. /// Se describen cinco especies nuevas de Phyllophaga Harris, subgneros Phyllophaga (s.str.) y Phytalus Erichson, representadas por 1,023 ejemplares recolectados en los bosques mesfilos de montaa establecidos entre los 1,900 y 2,300 m de altitud en la Reserva de la Biosfera Sierra de Manantln, Jalisco-Colima, Mxico. Phyllophaga (s.str.) sayloriana especie nueva y P. (s.str.) manantleca especie nueva se incorporan al grupo de especies "pubicauda," y P. (s.str.) joyana especie nueva se incorpora en el grupo de especies "xanthe"; P. (Phytalus) dugesiana especie nueva y P. (Phytalus) jalisciensis especie nueva se incorporan en el grupo de especies "bucephala." Se incluyen dibujos de las cpsulas genitales masculinas, de las placas genitales femeninas y de las uas tarsales de las cinco especies nuevas. 
4008856|Cicindela ohlone, new species, is described from Santa Cruz County, California (type locality: Soquel). Distinguishing characteristics of external form and genitalic structure, geographical and habitat distribution, and life history are discussed. This species is closely related to Cicindela purpurea Olivier and a member of the purpurea species group of subgenus Cicindela. The apparently restricted geographical and habitat ranges of this species, coupled with pressure for urban development of areas occupied by its known populations, raise immediate concerns for its long-term survival and that of other species that share its native grassland habitat.
3999510|Redescriptions and new records are presented for: Ischnocerus impressicollis Jordan from Mexico (Morelos) and Arizona, Ischnocerus angulatus Martin from Arizona, Toxonotus cornutus (Say) from Mexico (Durango, Chihuahua, and Nayarit), and Toxonotus vagus (Horn) from Mexico (Baja California, Morelos) and Arizona. Eugonus bicolor n.sp. and Euparius pictus n.sp. are described and illustrated from SE. Arizona. Euparius subtesselatus Schaeffer is recorded from Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and Mexico (Chihuahua and Durango).
40389443|Larval competition and allometry in the stag beetle Dorcus rectus (Motschulsky) were investigated in the laboratory and the field. Allometry indicated three larval groups of different head capsule widths and body masses, representing three instars. A laboratory experiment, in which two larvae were placed on milled decaying wood in test tubes for two weeks, showed that cannibalism occurred in the first and second instars. Cannibals tended to have larger head capsules than their victims. Cannibalizing larvae gained more body mass than non-cannibals. The carbon/nitrogen ratio of decaying wood was much higher than that of larvae, explaining an increased body mass following cannibalism. Sixty-two percent of surviving second instars was wounded by their opponents. When cannibalism did not occur by second instars, large-headed larvae grew but the growth of small-headed larvae was restricted, suggesting strong interference. However, a field study suggested low rates of interference competition between larvae.
3999744|A review of the literature and history of the classification of the Acamptini is given together with a key to the genera and an annotated list of the species. It is demonstrated that the Acamptini are Cossoninae and not Cryptorhynchinae as considered by some authors. Pseudacamptus Champion and Glyphostethus Marshall are reduced to synonyms of Acamptus. Glyphostethus cancellatus Marshall, Pseudacamptus plurisetosus Champion, and Pseudacamptus texanus Sleeper are transferred to Acamptus. Acamptus cancellatus Marshall, including the male and female genitalia, is illustrated for the first time, and it is concluded that the species is tropical American and has been introduced accidentally to Samoa and Fiji (recorded from the latter for the first time). A lectotype is selected for Acamptus rigidus LeConte. Paracamptopsis Hustache is excluded from the Acamptini, and it is noted that Paracamptus Casey, Acamptoides Champion and Anchacamptus Voss are Cryptorhynchinae and not Cossoninae as listed in Coleopterorum Catalogus and some other literature.
4009981|The female genitalia of New World Cryptocephalini was studied and illustrated based on representatives of 11 of the 13 genera of the tribe. It was found that female genitalia contain pleurites IX, a rare and apparently primitive feature among leaf beetles. In other features cryptocephaline female genitalia are simpler than genitalia of other leaf beetles in having a poorly sclerotized sternite VIII and lacking the tignum. It is also hypothesized that the vagina is formed by sternites IX (dorsally) and VIII (ventrally), and that sclerotized plate of sternite IX can be homologized with vaginal palpi of flea beetles. A set of characters of diagnostic and of possible phylogenetic value was found. In general, Cryptocephalina and Monachulina bear the greatest affinity in overall morphology of the female genitalia, with Pachybrachina possessing a different set of unique morphological states. Of particular diagnostic and phylogenetic value at the subtribal level, as revealed by this study, are the shape and degree of sclerotization of tergite VIII, tergite IX, and sternite VIII.
40389471|Pachybrachis Chevrolat (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) is a very large and complex genus of small leaf beetles with >150 species in the United States. Pachybrachis nigricornis carbonarius Haldeman is an entirely (or nearly entirely) black subspecies that is relatively common in Kentucky. Abundance and distribution records for 288 specimens collected in Kentucky are presented. Adults were found feeding on two species of legumes (Fabales: Fabaceae: Papilionoideae) over 230 km apart in Kentucky: on Desmodium paniculatum L. DC in Henry County and on Lespedeza virginica (L.) Britton in Logan County. No-choice feeding trials using female beetles and six species of legumes revealed significant leaf disk consumption after 50 hrs on all plant species. Females with narrow lateral yellow markings on the elytra were significantly larger in body size than all-black females and consumed more leaf area. The yellow-margined females appear to represent a transitional form between two previously recognized subspecies, suggesting that the current subspecies taxonomy for P. nigricornis (Say) needs re-evaluation.
4008396|Two new species of gall-forming buprestids, Sphenoptera (Tropeopeltis) gnidiaphaga Bellamy and S. (T.) loranthiphaga Bellamy, are described from South Africa. These are the first gall-forming buprestids to be recorded from Africa. Adult and larval stages are described and the adults are illustrated for both species. The formation of galls by buprestids is discussed.
3999720|The weevil Phytobius cavifrons (Leconte) was observed behaviorally mimicking nymphs of the saldid, Saldula pallipes complex, on a gravel bar in a small river in California. The behavioral mimicry is considered more significant than the relatively superficial morphological similarity. P. torvipes (Dietz) = P. cavifrons (Leconte), new synonymy.
4542984|Sexual size and shape dimorphism was quantified in the whirligig beetle Dineutus nigrior Roberts. Females were larger in terms of body length, elytra length, body height, profemur width, and mass. Males had longer heads, longer and wider protarsi, longer and wider protibiae, and longer profemora. Discriminant function analysis identified 80.5% of individuals as the correct sex based on measurements of body size. Males and females also differed in terms of body shape. Potential causes of the dimorphism are discussed.
4009877| The Argentinean endemic Eucraniini genus Glyphoderus Westwood is redescribed, a key to species and a synopsis of the three known species, G. centralis Burmeister, G. monticola Burmeister, and G. sterquilinus (Westwood) is presented. The biology and food relocation behavior of the three species are described. A key to genera of the tribe Eucranini is also presented. /// El gnero Glyphoderus Westwood endmico de Argentina es redescripto y se presenta una clave para las especies y una sinopsis de las tres especies conocidas, G. centralis Burmeister, G. monticola Burmeister y G. sterquilinus (Westwood). La biologa del gnero es discutida y el comportamineto de relocacin del alimento de las tres especies es descripto. Se presenta una clave para los gneros de la tribu Eucraniini. 
4008103| New synonymies of 45 genera and 238 species of Baridinae from the Americas, especially from South America, and numerous new combinations are given in Part I. Some comments are made on the date of and typographical errors in Hustache's post-humous work on "Nouveaux Barinae Sud-Amricains" with corrigenda of names listed in Part II and a presentation of re-arranged text of the descriptions of three species in Part III. 
3999863|The fine-structure morphology of Xenos peckii (Coleoptera: Stylopidae) was studied with the scanning electron microscope. Details of antennae, eyes, and elytra are illustrated.
4000019|First instar Epicauta larvae are sexually dimorphic. Figures illustrate that males have a small pore on abdominal sternum IX, and females lack this pore.
4008723|A total of 63 beetle species and varieties in 42 genera from 17 families plus an additional six taxa identified only to genus were found in samples of food products entering the United States through southern California and Arizona. They are presented in a table format. An additional 15 beetle families were recorded without further taxonomic determinations during this same three-year study period.
4009366| A new species of Platydema Laporte and Brull, P. woldai from Central America, is described and a diagnosis is provided. This species is apparently established in southern Florida. 
4009430| The Central American clerid Enoclerus (Enoclerus) insidiosus (Gorham) is proposed as a mimic of the ant Camponotus sericeiventris Gurin based on the criteria of shared microhabitat, overall physical resemblance, and species-specific morphological similarity. 
3999742|Three specimens of Stenocorus vittiger (Randall) have been collected from the southern Appalachian range in Virginia that are markedly different from the normal species. Its possible taxonomic placement is discussed.
4009550| The reproductive development of the eucalypt-defoliating beetles Chrysophtharta agricola (Chapuis) and C. bimaculata (Olivier) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) was examined by dissecting male and female teneral, overwintering, and reproductive adults. Both species had morphologically similar reproductive systems, except that C. agricola females had more, but significantly smaller, ovarioles and C. agricola males had more testis follicles and significantly larger testes than C. bimaculata. In both species, females had ciliated lateral and common oviducts and no accessory glands. The male aedeagus of both species underwent approximately 180 longitudinal rotation during adult maturation. Both species had consistent integument and haemolymph colour changes from overwintering to reproductive maturity. Twenty percent of female C. agricola, but no C. bimaculata, had mated prior to overwintering. The rate of post-overwintering reproductive development of female and male C. bimaculata was examined at six temperatures. 
41314185|Cryptophagus aurelii Otero and Lpez, new species, from Cabaeros National Park, Ciudad Real, Spain is described and illustrated. It is compared to the similar species Cryptophagus intermedius Bruce.
4000122|The two species of the genus Nudobius C. G. Thomson (Staphylinidae) known to occur at present in Mexico are treated, and a key is given. N. circularis new species is described from the state of Durango. Lectotype is designated for N. celatus Sharp.
4009633|Examination and dissection of type specimens of Corylophidae resulted in three generic synonomies: Holopsis Broun (=Bathona Casey), Ectinocephalus Matthews (=Conodes Matthews), Gloeosoma Wollaston (=Gronevus Casey), new synonyms. The corylophid species Microstagetus parvulus Wollaston is reported for the first time in North America. Synonomy of the cryptophagid genus Scytomaria Lyubarsky with Anitamaria Leschen, new synonymy, is proposed and the proliferation of higher taxon names in Cryptophagidae by Ljubarsky (1998b) is determined to be unnecessary.
4008773| Coloration in adult diurnal tiger beetles has been proposed to function in crypsis, disruption by iridescence, mimicry, and thermoregulation. Observations on two Tunisian tiger beetles suggested that parasematic coloration may also occur. Eyespot patterns in these species may function in deflection of predator attacks to the apical part of the body leading to a higher probability of survival of the beetle. The significance of this mechanism in a number of eye-spotted cicindelids is discussed. Overlap between the different functions may be the cause of the extraordinary diversity of tiger beetle coloration. /// Un nombre de fonctions de la coloration des cicindles diurnes adultes a t propos: cryptisme, protection par iridescence, mimtisme et thermorgulation. Une tude sur deux cicindles Tunisiennes suggre la prsence de dessins parasmatiques. Ces espces prsentent des ocelles qui pourraient servir  dtourner l'attaque d'un prdateur potentiel vers la partie anale du corps, rsultant en une plus grande probabilit de survie de l'insecte. La signification des taches anales chez plusieurs cicindles est discute. Le chevauchement des diffrentes fonctions pourrait tre la cause de l'extraordinaire diversit de la coloration des cicindles. 
4009240|The Mexican and northern Central American genus Scaphengis Gorham is transferred from the subfamily Erotylinae to the subfamily Encaustinae, representing the first record of this subfamily in the New World. This paper contains descriptions of eight new species, a key, a distribution map and illustrations to aid in species determinations of this previously monotypic genus. The new species described are: S. auk Skelley; S. dodo Skelley; S. emu Skelley; S. kakapo Skelley; S. kiwi Skelley; S. moa Skelley; S. rhea Skelley; S. takahe Skelley.
41413652|A field sampling survey of longhorned beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) on Hydrangea arborescens L. and Daucus carota L. was undertaken at LaRue-Pine Hills Research Natural Area, Union Co., Illinois in 1987-1988. Sixteen species (10 genera) were collected, with the lepturine genera Typocerus LeConte and Strangalia Serville being the most common. Three species, Typocerus velutinus (Olivier), Strangalia luteicornis (F.), and Euderces pini Olivier, were considered dominant; they comprised 19.8% of the total adults collected. Six species were observed in copula, with most (94.9%) on H. arborescens and in shade near an oak-hickory forest. New adult host plant records were E. pini on H. arborescens, and Elaphidion mucwnatum (Say) and Neoclytus mucronatus (F.) on D. carota. Collections of cerambycids on white flowers of H. arborescens in shade close to larval host sites (an oak-hickory forest) probably accounted for its greater diversity of cerambycid species.
4008022|Sampling for Pselaphidae in Butte County, California, concentrated on the fauna of the foothills and mountains of the Sierra Nevada. Twenty-nine species were discovered. Thirteen species are here described, and records for the remainder are presented. New species are: Sonoma yahiorum, Oropus grigaricki, O. schusteri, Tetrascapha krysiae, Oropodes ishii, Actium hazeltinei, Hylotychus plumas, H. confusus, Pselaptrichus marshi, P. magaliae, P. cornus, P. auctumnus, and Batrisodes oro.
4000028|Two types of sound are produced by Eupsophulus castaneus (Horn): Impact-generated and stridulatory. The impact-generated sounds are produced only by males. These sounds have a characteristic number of taps per burst, burst length, and tap rate. The stridulatory sounds are produced when a plectrum on the inner face of the hind femur is rubbed against a file on a lateral plate that is positioned between the first abdominal sternite and tergite. Males and females of E. castaneus aggregate around UV lights. Males vigorously tap in such aggregations. Since the sex ratio of males to females at such aggregations is approximately 3:1, we speculate that such aggregations may be leks, with the tapping having a spacing or mating-inducement function. The stridulatory sounds are produced only when beetles are immersed in liquid. These sounds may function in startling predators as the predators take a beetle into their mouth.
4009181|Males of Chelymorpha alternans Boheman court females both before and during copulation. Sexual behavior is highly variable between males, and the timing of each movement is not stereotypic. During some matings females gradually expel a droplet containing sperm, a behavior most frequent in pairs involving non-virgin females. Copulation time is longest in pairings in which the female forms the droplet. Courtship behavior during copulation suggests that sexual selection by female cryptic choice is an important force in the evolution of this species.
4009782| Eulechriops elongatus Champion, previously described from Morelos, Mxico, is reported from Arizona for the first time. The species is redescribed and distinguished from the eastern North American species E. minutus (LeConte), genitalia are figured, and new distribution data are given for both species. Members of the minutus group appear to be associated with oaks and additional undescribed species are known from Mxico. One or two specimens each of at least two and possibly three apparently undescribed Eulechriops species are known from Arizona and Texas. 
4543011| Immature stages in five chrysomelid clades, Cassidinae, Criocerinae, Cryptocephalinae, Lamprosomatinae and Galerucinae, use their feces as a significant part of their defense. In Galerucinae, only two genera, Blepharida Chevrolat and Polyclada Chevrolat have been known to carry larval fecal coats. We report for the first time that immature stages of two species in the African arrow-poison genus Diamphidia Gerstaecker, as well as an additional species of Polyclada Chevrolat cover themselves with their feces. In Diamphidia femoralis Gerstaecker, Diamphidia nigroornata Stl and an undetermined species of Polyclada, females oviposit masses on stems of Commiphora (Burseraceae) and Sclerocarya birrea (A. Richt.) Hochst. (Anacardiaceae), and they coat their eggs with sticky olive-green feces that harden into a dark-brown covering. All larval instars retain their feces, as semi-solid pellets or a wet mass that partially or completely covers the dorsum, or as long anal strands. The final instar loses its fecal coat prior to descending the host stem or dropping to the ground to enter the soil for pupation. These behaviors further support a close evolutionary relationship between Blepharida, Diamphidia and Polyclada, and suggest similar morphological features for maintaining fecal coats. /// Los estadios inmaduros en cinco cladas de crisomlidos, Cassidinae, Criocerinae, Cryptocephalinae, Lamprosomatinae y Galerucinae, usan sus excrementos como parte importante de sus defensas. En Galerucinae, slo se conocen dos generos, Blepharida Chevrolat y Polyclada Chevrolat, que usen cubiertas fecales en las larvas. Reportamos por primera vez que estadios inmaduros de tres especies en los gneros africanos de flechas envenenadas, Diamphidia Gerstaecker y Polyclada Chevrolat, se cubren con sus excrementos. En Diamphidia femoralis Gerstaecker, Diamphidia nigroornata Stl y una especie desconocida de Polyclada, las hembras ovipositan masas en troncos de Commiphora (Burseraceae) y Sclerocarya birrea (A. Richt.) Hochst. (Anacardiaceae), y cubren sus huevos con excrementos verde-oliva pegajosos que se transforman al endurecerse en una cubierta marrn oscura. Todas los estadios larvales retienen sus excrementos como bolas semislidas, o como una masa hmeda que parcial o completamente cubre el dorso, o como largos filamentos anales. El ltimo estadio larval pierde su cubierta fecal antes de descender del tronco husped o caerse al suelo para entrar en fase de pupa. Estos comportamientos apoyan an ms una relacin evolucionaria entre Blepharida, Diamphidia y Polyclada, y sugieren elementos morfolgicos similares para el mantenimiento de cubiertas fecales. 
4009319|Agrilus corylicola Fisher, A. carpini Knull and A. pseudocoryli Fisher are newly elevated in status from subspecies to species. Agrilus fulgens LeConte and A. torquatus LeConte are considered to be full species as originally described, and all are contrasted with their similar species.
4007987| Stethorus ogloblini Nunenmacher is placed as a junior synonym of Stethorus darwini (Brthes), and the new species tridens and murilloi are described. Reference is made to the mite feeding habits of Stethorus species. 
4009817|A new subspecies of Cicindela nevadica LeConte, Cicindela nevadica makosika Spomer, is described from the South Dakota Badlands. Geographically, the population occurs at the periphery of the range of C. nevadica knausii Leng. However, this new population is geographically isolated from the nearest C. n. knausii populations, which occur ca. 100 air miles N and over 100 air miles south. Phenotypically, C. n. makosika appears most similar to C. n. tubensis Cazier from NE Arizona. A possible threat to this population is habitat destruction by cattle.
4009808|The genus Aglylptinus Cockerell (Leiodinae: Scotocryptini) is predominantly Neotropical in distribution. A. laevis (LeConte) is the only species known from the USA and Canada. It is distributed in eastern North America from southern Canada to south Florida and east Texas. The distribution is mapped. Adults are usually found in moist forests, in association with fungi, and are known from all months of the year. A lectotype is designated.
3999405|Four species of Epitrix are known to occur in California. They are viewed with respect to economic aspects, taxonomy, and distribution. The spermathecae of the females are described and illustrated. Two heretofore difficult to separate species are compared.
4009543|A key to the species of the Curculio subfenestratus Voss group of the genus Curculio of China and descriptions of new taxa are presented. The following new taxa are described: C. artusfrons new species, C. balmeri new species, C. brittanyae new species, C. carlae new species, C. challeti new species, C. coartorostrus new species, C. congerae new species, C. fordi new species, C. gangkuensis new species, C. gansuensis new species, C. helleri new species, C. janetteae new species, C. luteusvittus new species, C. obrieni new species, C. polki new species, C. sleeperi new species, and C. tarae new species. Short reviews of the following previously described taxa are included: C. aino (Kono), C. albisquama Ter-Minassian, C. breviscapus (Heller), C. conjugalis (Faust), C. convexus (Roelofs), C. flavoscutellatus (Roelofs), C. funebris (Roelofs), C. ignobilis (Heller), C. interpositus Voss, C. klapperichi Voss, C. lobatibasis Voss, C. maculanigra (Roelofs), C. misellus (Heller), C. notobifasciatus Pajni and Singh, and C. subfenestratus Voss. Type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, Academia Sinica, Beijing, China, California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, California, Bernice P. Bishop Museum, Honolulu, Hawaii, Charles W. O'Brien, Tallahassee, Florida and Frank W. Pelsue Collections.
4009756|Description of all larval instars of Agabetes acuductus (Harris) is presented including a detailed chaetotaxic and porotaxic analysis of the cephalic capsule, head appendages, legs, last abdominal segment and urogomphi. A parsimony analysis based on the 43 informative larval characteristics was conducted with PAUP. Boostrap values indicate strong support for the monophyly of the clade containing the genus Agabetes Crotch and members of the subfamily Laccophilinae. This is supported by five synapomorphies: (i) egg bursters positioned posteriorly, contiguous to the coronal suture, (ii) presence of two lamellae clypeales in instar I, (iii) absence of the primary setae LA10 and LA12, (iv) absence of a ventroapical spinula on antennomere 3, and (v) abdominal venter 6 sclerotized.
4008627|Scopodes chimbu Darlington and S. tafa Darlington are here placed in the chimbu group. An additional species, Scopodes wei, new species, is described and illustrated. A key and amplified descriptions of the two Darlington species are provided.
4009228|Larvae of Isorhinus undatus (Champion) feed externally on young leaves of Pseudobombax septenatum (Jacq.) Dug. (Bombacaceae) and cover themselves with their own excrement. Pupation takes place in the open in a cage-like cocoon secreted by the larva and later eaten by the newly emerged adult.
3999465|The larva described in 1959 by Sanderson and Brown as that of Hexacylloepus was in reality that of Microcylloepus sp. The true larva of Hexacylloepus has now been found in 18 localities in Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, Mexico, Grenada, Trinidad, Venezuela, Brazil, Paraguay, and Bolivia. It is described and figured. This larva is perhaps closest to that of Stenelmis in fundamental characters, but differs in a number of ways. Its most distinctive feature is the unusually long ninth abdominal segment, which superficially resembles that of larval Dubiraphia. Methods are suggested for insertion in existing keys by Bertrand, Hinton, Leech and Chandler, and Leech and Sanderson. Records of 5,268 Hexacylloepus adults and 57 larvae from 177 localities in 16 countries are recorded. The genus has not previously been recorded from the state of New Mexico in the U. S., nor from Bolivia, British Honduras, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, or Paraguay.
4008960|New and/or additional distribution data for twelve species of the genus Myllaena Erichson in the Nearctic region are presented: Myllaena audax Casey (new to New Hampshire, with additional records); M. arcana Casey (new to Maine, with additional records); M. cuneata Notman (new to New Hampshire and Oklahoma, with additional records); M. currax Notman and M. decreta Casey (additional records); M. fenyesi Bernhauer (new to Oregon); M. insomnis Casey (new to Michigan, with additional records); M. kaskaskia Klimaszewski (new to Oklahoma); M. ludificans Casey (additional records); M. potawatomi Klimaszewski (new to Oklahoma and Virginia); M. procidua Casey (new to Florida and Oklahoma) with description of the previously unknown male; and M. seminole Klimaszewski (new to Oklahoma).
4009646| Larvae of the genera Chlorota Burmeister and Chasmodia Macleay (Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae: Rutelini) are described for the first time based on the larvae of Chlorota cincticollis Blanchard and Chasmodia collaris (Blanchard). The pupa of C. cincticollis is also described. A key to the larvae of 19 American genera of Rutelini and a list of the described species are provided. /// Se describen por primera vez las larvas de los gneros Chlorota Burmeister y Chasmodia Macleay (Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae: Rutelini) con base en las larvas de Chlorota cincticollis Blanchard y Chasmodia collaris (Blanchard). Tambin se describe la pupa de C. cincticollis, se presenta una clave para identificar las larvas de 19 gneros americanos de Rutelini y una lista de las especies cuyas larvas han sido descritas. 
4008581|A procedure is described for continuous small scale rearing (600-800 adults/week) of a sunflower stem weevil, Cylindrocopturus adspersus LeConte, a pest of cultivated sunflower. A modified boll weevil diet for laboratory rearing of the larvae, and methods to collect the eggs and larvae are described. Reproductives were from a non-diapausing strain of C. adspersus. Host plants are still required for adult feeding and oviposition. The procedure is labor intensive, requiring about 30 hours/week, and not completely independent of the host plant, but it is the first practical method for small scale rearing to be reported for this species.
4010047|Primary types were examined for eurypine Mycteridae described by Maurice Pic. The following new synonyms are proposed [senior synonym first]: Cleodaeus rugiceps Champion 1889 = Physcius grandis Pic 1930 and Physcius crassicornis Pic 1933; Conomorphus brevicornis Champion 1889 = Conomorphus lineatus Pic 1920 and Conomorphus brevevittatus Pic 1931; Eurypus kirbyi Champion 1916 = Eurypus longipennis (Pic 1933); Eurypus rubens Kirby 1818 = Eurypus lagrioides (Pic 1920); Falsopedilus elongatus (Pic 1921) = Falsopedilus modestus Pic 1924; Microconomorphus rufipes (Pic 1907) = Microconomorphus curticollis (Pic 1907); Mimophyscius breviscutata (Fairmaire 1898) = Mimophyscius madecassus Pic 1935; Omineus Lewis 1895 = Pseudothisias Pic 1930; Phaeogala Fairmaire 1896 = Falsostictodrya Pic 1931. The following new combinations are proposed (original combinations in square brackets): Eurypus infasciata (Pic 1933) [Polypria lagrioides var. infasciata Pic]; Falsopedilus elongatus (Pic 1921) [Eurypinus elongatus Pic]; Mimophyscius breviscutata (Fairmaire 1898) [Phaeogala breviscutata Fairmaire]; Omineus bicolor (Pic 1930) [Pseudothisias bicolor Pic]; Phaeogala biimpressa (Pic 1931) [Falsostictodrya biimpressa Pic]; Trichosalpingus gracilicornis (Pic 1927) [Physcius gracilicornis Pic]. Verbatim label data are given for all Pic eurypine types. Taxonomic notes are given for several of the genera.
4008132|Eight taxa formerly in the genus Xyletinus Latreille are transferred to the genus Euvrilletta Fall: brevis White, distans (Fall), grossa (Van Dyke), harrisii (Fall), mucorea mucorea (LeConte), mucorea variabilis (White), peltata (Harris), and sequoiae (Van Dyke). Two new species, Euvrilletta brunnea and E. hirsuta, are described and illustrated; E. texana Van Dyke is redescribed; and E. californica White is considered as a synonym of E. occidentalis (Fall). A key with illustrations of the antennae is provided for North American species of Euvrilletta; also there is a checklist of North American species of Euvrilletta and Xyletinus. Five Mexican species of Xyletinus are transferred to Euvrilletta: aurantiacus White, cylindricus White, mexicanus White, pallidus LeConte, and rotundifrons White.
4008672|The tribe Trimytini of the subfamily Tentyriinae consists of two genera and seven species in America north of Mexico. Chilometopon castaneum Casey, C. brevipenne Casey, and C. ensifer Casey are synonymized under C. abnorme (Horn). The genus Prometopion Casey is synonymized with Chilometopon Horn, and the species P. amplipenne Casey is synonymized under C. helopioides Horn. Trimytis nympha Casey, T. tonsa Casey, T. ignava Casey, and T. trapezifera Casey are synonymized with T. pruinosa LeConte. One new species from southern California, Chilometopon microps, is described and illustrated, and a key to the United States species is provided.
3999888|New ant hosts and distribution records from Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas are reported for Myrmecaphodius excavaticollis (Blanchard) collected from nests of Solenopsis invicta Buren (red imported fire ant), S. richteri Forel (black imported fire ant), S. geminata F. (tropical fire ant), S. xyloni McCook (southern fire ant), and Iridomyrmex humilis (Mayr) (argentine ant). New ant host and distribution records from Florida and Georgia are reported for Euparia castanea Serville collected from nests of S. geminata and S. xyloni. The occurrence of both species of beetle from the same nests of S. geminata and S. xyloni is reported for the first time. The range of M. excavaticollis is expanding while the range of E. castanea is decreasing. Both species of beetle occur in abandoned mounds of the host ants.
4008778|A new species, Peplomicrus iviei, is described from the Dominican Republic and compared to the other New World species of Peplomicrus. This constitutes the first record of the family Micropeplidae from the West Indies.
4009511|In the New World genus Eudiagogus Schoenherr (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), E. stenosoma O'Brien and Kovarik, new species, from northern Argentina is described. A revised key, illustrations, and distributions are included for the three South American species of Eudiagogus.
3999983|Specimens of Philonthus alumnus Er., collected at blacklight in Bryan, Texas, were maintained in laboratory cultures. This beetle proved to be an aggressive predator on several small insects including Drosophila melanogaster, Sinella curviseta, Heliothis zea (1st instars), as well as other individuals of P. alumnus. Grooming behavior primarily consisted of unilateral rubbing acts in which the goal was to pass detritus anteriorly to the mouth for ingestion. Much of the grooming behavior appeared instinctive, but the beetle was able to make some adjustments if grooming structures were missing. The mating sequence was short with no elaborate displays; the male assumed an active role, while the female assumed a (for the most part) passive role.
3999790|Distributional maps show the known range within the United States of every aquatic or semi-aquatic genus representing the dryopoid families Elmidae (Elminthidae), Dryopidae, Limnichidae, Chelonariidae, Heteroceridae, Psephenidae, and Ptilodactylidae, the dascilloid family Cyphonidae (Helodidae), and the hydrophiloid family Georyssidae. Occurrences in Canada and Mexico are also indicated, but not by province or state. Genera known from Mexico, but not from the United States, are listed, but not included in maps. The dryopoid genera are discussed in terms of possible geographic origin and their distribution within the continent, hemisphere, and world. Selected references are presented in addition to the literature cited.
4008485|A new genus and four new species of Trichiinae are described and figured. These are Giesbertiolus ornatus, n. g., n. sp., from Panama; Trigonopeltastes wappesi, n. sp., from Panama; T. pontilis, n. sp., from Costa Rica and Panama; and T. glabella, n. sp., from Chiapas, Mexico. In addition, Dialithus festivus Howden is transferred to Giesbertiolus.
40664373|The female of Ceraspis jaliscoensis Delgado and Navarrete-Heredia is described and illustrated for the first time. A key to the Mexican and Central American species of Ceraspis LePeletier and Serville is presented. Se describe e ilustra por primera vez la hembra de Ceraspis jaliscoensis Delgado and Navarrete-Heredia. Se presenta una clave para identificar las especies mexicanas y centroamericanas del gnero.
4009217|Stelidota adsuffusa, new species, from Florida and the Bahamas is described, illustrated, and included in a new key with three previously known North American species. Lectotypes are designated for S. coenosa Erichson and S. ruderata Erichson from the West Indies. The name S. ferruginea Reitter is newly placed in synonymy under S. Coenosa Erichson.
4008633|Oplostomus fuligineus Olivier (Cetoniinae: Cremastocheilini) has been known as a pest in bee hives in southern Africa since the early 1900's. This is the first description of its life cycle and breeding habits. Eggs were laid in a mixture of soil and cattle dung and took 6 to 10 days (mean 7.9 days) to hatch. The larvae (description is given) were fed on a mixture of soil, compost and cattle dung in the ratio of 1:2:3 by volume and took 30 to 38 days (mean 33 days) to become pupae. The pupae took 21 to 29 days (mean 25 days) to eclosion. Survival rate of eggs was 95%, larvae 61% and pupae 71%. Female and male adults could be distinguished by the shape of the abdominal sternites. They fed preferentially on open bee brood containing larvae, also on young capped brood and survived well on pollen and honey. In nature they seldom feed on flowers as do other Cetoniinae.
4009643| Erlandia mexicana new species is described from Mxico and biogeographical comments are included. 
41316660|The North American species of Callimoxys Kraatz, 1863 are revised. Callimoxys sanguinicollis (Olivier, 1795), Callimoxys fuscipennis (LeConte, 1861), new status, and Callimoxys pinorum Casey, 1924, new status, are recognized as valid, and two new species (Callimoxys ocularis Hammond and Williams, type locality West Saylorville Lake, Iowa, and Callimoxys nigrinis Hammond and Williams, type locality near Brenham, Texas) are described. A key to the world fauna is included, as well as a review and diagnosis of the two known Palaearctic species, Callimoxys gracilis (Brulle, 1832) and Callimoxys retusifer Holzschuh, 1999. A morphometric study was conducted using 67 characters from adults of the North American species. Data were examined using stepwise discriminant analysis to determine which characters aid in the diagnosis of taxa, and their relative amounts of resolving power using canonical varites analysis. Significant sexual dimorphism and variability in morphological characters were detected, but ratios that control for body size were found to be useful in species diagnosis. Phylogenetic analysis using the genus Stenopterus Illiger, 1804 as outgroup returned a single most parsimonious tree and hypothesized C. ocularis+C. nigrinis as ancestral and C. sanguinicollis +C. pinorum most derived.
4009823|Bledius hei, new species, is described and illustrated. It belongs to the Bledius kosempoensis group and was found under a moth-killing lamp in Doujiangyan City, Sichuan Province, Southwest China. Bledius hei may be distinguished from other members of the group by features of the aedeagus, the microsculpture of the head, pronotal shape and color of the elytra.
4009043|Adults of Deporaus glastinus (LeConte) and Pselaphorhynchites naso (Casey) were collected from live oak, Quercus wislizenii A.DC., in southern California and studied in the laboratory. Females of D. glastinus oviposited in and cut off newly formed leaves or leaf sections and the larvae developed as full depth leaf miners. Pselaphorhynchites naso females oviposited in terminal buds and the larvae developed to maturity within the in situ buds. Both species pupate in the soil. Life history information is supported by illustrations and photographs and United States distributions are given for both species. In addition, a summary of all known larval development sites is provided for North American rhynchitids.
4007945|Throscinus spangleri, T. punctatus, and T. simplex are described from South America. A key to the species is provided and diagnostic and distribution notes are included for the four other known species of the genus.
4008545|A new species of flea beetle from southern California is described and illustrated. Longitarsus huberi, n. sp. is characterized by its black shiny color, the absence of wings, the elytra obliquely truncate, the abdominal tergites almost completely exposed, the presence of large spiniform setae at the apex of posterior tibiae, and the presence of a loop at the base of the spermathecal duct. The lectotypes of Longitarsus mancus LeConte and L. apterus LeConte are designated and illustrations of male and female genitalia are provided.
4008126|Corticarina scissa (LeConte) is removed from synonomy and compared with the sympatrically occurring and morphologically similar C. fuscula (Gyllenhal) and C. cavicollis (Mannerheim).
4008912|A replacement name is given for Odontionopa Erichson 1842, nec Chevrolat 1837 (= Eboo, nom. nov.) which is a senior subjective synonym of Tomyris Chapuis 1874, nec Eichwald 1831. A type species, Odontionopa viridula Erichson (= O. proxima Erichson), is designated for Eboo and this species is redescribed. The synonymy of Eboo and Tomyris Chapuis is confirmed. The family group name Tomyrina Chapuis 1874 is replaced with Ebooina. A new name is given for Eboo queenslandica (Weise 1923, nec Lea 1915) (= E. weisei, nom. nov.). Eboo is a large endemic Australian genus with many sexually dimorphic species which feed primarily on Eucalyptus.
3999493|This genus (type species Harpalus hebescens Bates) is related to Trichotichnus Morawitz, and contains seven species, of which three are new: lectocolus; trochotrichus; and marmoreus. A new name, schaefferi, is proposed for the junior primary homonym, Harpalus iripennis Schaeffer. Criteria for ranking are discussed. These species are confined to an area including the mountains of Oaxaca, the eastern portion of the trans-volcanic belt, the Sierra Madre Oriental, and the coastal plain in northeastern Mexico and extreme southeastern Texas. It is suggested that this genus is a derivative of a stock which invaded Mexico from the north in pre-Miocene time.
41314182|Since Auperia Jacquelin-Duval, 1857 was established as an unnecessary replacement name for Euparia Le Peletier de Saint-Fargeau and Serville, 1828, both names are objective synonyms with Euparia being valid. The type species of both genera is Euparia castanea Le Peletier de Saint-Fargeau and Serville, 1828. Dellacasa's later fixation of Scarabaeus stercorator F., 1775 as type species for Auperia is invalid. Stebnicka's later fixation of Auperia denominata Chevrolat, 1864 as type species for "Auperia Chevrolat" is invalid because Chevrolat did not introduce a new name but just referred to Jacquelin-Duval's Auperia. Since Stebnicka synonymized the type species of Odontolytes Kozhantshikov, 1916, O. andamanensis Kozhantshikov, with a species of Phalangochaeta Martinez, 1952, Odontolytes becomes the valid name for Auperia sensu Stebnicka. Consequently, 18 species are transferred from Auperia sensu Stebnicka to Odontolytes which now contains 19 species.
4008364|Euboarhexius Grigarick and Schuster is a member of the tribe Euplectini, subtribe Trogastrina. Euboarhexius consists of four known species: E. sinus Grigarick and Schuster (California), E. perscitus (Fletcher) (new combination; S.E. United States), E. trogasteroides (Brendel) (E. United States), and E. dybasi, new species (Washington). Euboarhexius sinus and E. dybasi are known only from the holotypes. Three distinct geographic variants of E. trogasteroides are known. The sister taxon of Euboarhexius is the genus Trogaster Sharp (Europe).
3999891| The third-stage larva of Megasoma elephas occidentalis Bolvar y Pieltain et al. is described and illustrated, based on 3 specimens collected near Tecomn, Colima, Mexico. Morphological characteristics are compared with those of the genera Dynastes and Strategus. 
40983328|A series of field studies examined the effectiveness of using a grass blade/stem to extract tiger beetle larvae (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Cicindelinae) from their burrows without damaging the larva or the burrow - a procedure often called fishing. We found that larvae of many species can be efficiently sampled at rates equal to or exceeding other methods. Extracted larvae have a low percentage of injury and can be assessed for parasitism and condition. They can be returned to either their own burrow or an alternative burrow where they can be re-sampled. The results of these studies indicate that fishing for tiger beetle larvae can be an effective tool for monitoring populations where larvae can be returned to existing burrows. In addition, the fishing technique allows for relocation of organisms while eliminating the impacts associated with excavating threatened species or larvae from rare habitats.
4009549|The flea beetle, Pseudolampsis guttata (LeConte) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) was assessed for release on the South American fern, Azolla filiculoides Lamarck (Pteridophyta: Azollaceae) which is invasive in aquatic ecosystems in South Africa. Favourable biological characteristics of the beetle include: long-lived and mobile adults, short generation time, high rate of increase and high per capita feeding rates. However, laboratory host specificity trials indicated that this beetle is an oligophagous species capable of utilizing several species in the genus Azolla and could pose a threat to native southern African Azolla species. Pseudolampsis guttata was therefore considered unsuitable for release in South Africa.
4008985| Stator limbatus (Horn) and S. beali Johnson are closely related seed beetles (Coleoptera: Bruchidae) that overlap in distribution in southern Texas and northern Mexico. We examine directional biases in the ability of these species to hybridize. In laboratory crosses, only S. limbatus   S. beali  crosses produced developing eggs. However, over one-third (37.5%) of all developing eggs failed to hatch, and 22% of all hatched eggs failed to produce an adult beetle. When mated to either hybrid or S. beali males, all emerging hybrid females produced eggs, but none of these eggs developed. 
4543032|The brassica leaf beetle Phaedon brassicae Baly, one of the pests of cruciferous vegetables in China and Japan, is a multivoltine species that over-winters and over-summers mainly as diapausing adults. In this paper, the internal reproductive system is described and illustrated for this species. Its morphology associated with diapause is also described. The accessory glands, lateral ejaculatory duct, common ejaculatory duct and ejaculatory sac are poorly developed in diapausing male, in contrast, these are obvious and swollen in the reproductive male. In the diapausing female, no obvious previtellogenic oocytes can be found in the ovariole. The ovarioles contain numerous previtellogenic oocytes, and the basal oocytes have visible yolk uptake in the reproductive female. In addition, the fat bodies are numerous and dark yellow in color for diapausing adults, but few and light yellow in color for reproductive adults.
4008982|A brief review of buprestid fossils known from amber deposits is presented. Acmaeodera birmitina Cockerell is transferred back to Elateridae based on study of the holotype.
4008141|Eulimnichus expeditus is described from Guatemala and Honduras.
3999661|The species of Phengodes occurring in the United States of America are revised. Based on the structure of the maxillary palp, Phengodes is divided into Phengodes s. str. (type-species plumosa Ol.) and Phengodes (Phengodella) subg. nov. (type-species frontalis Lec.) The author examined 10 species and 4 subspecies. The following are described as new: arizonensis, fenestrata, fusciceps intermedia, inflata, laticollis meridiana, nigromaculata, and mexicana. P. sallei Lec. (1881) is synonymized under fusciceps Lec.
4009370| In the Cerrado region of Brazil, we observed dung beetles, Canthon virens Mannerheim, using leaf-cutter ants, Atta laevigata (Smith), as oviposition sites. Aggressive encounters occurred whereby the smaller dung beetles decapitated and then buried their much larger ant victims in a specialized sequence of behaviors. Known densities of a few Cerrado herbivorous mammals suggest that the availability of dung may be similar to other neotropical sites. We propose that C. virens may be an obligate, rather than facultative, predator of leaf-cutter ants. /// No Cerrado brasileiro, ns observamos besouros, Canthon virens Mannerheim, utilizando savas, Atta laevigata (Smith), como stios de oviposio. Encontros agressivos foram observados, nos quais os pequenos besouros decapitaram e enterraram as savas, em uma sequncia bastante especializada de comportamentos. Densidades conhecidas de mamferos herbvoros do Cerrado sugerem que a disponibilidade de esterco pode ser similar a outros stios neotropicais. Ns propomos que C. virens  um predador obligado, ao invs de facultado, de savas. 
4009589|Falliellus richardi, new genus and species, is described and illustrated from Perinet, eastern Madagascar. This new genus is distinct from all other known Madagascan Coraebini, which currently includes 103 species placed in 27 genera, and is placed in the new subtribe Toxoscelini Majer. At least 500 undescribed coraebine species are estimated to exist from Madagascar based on examination of museum specimens.
41316664|The larva of Homophileurus integer (Burmeister, 1847) (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Dynastinae: Phileurini) is described for the first time and accompanied by notes on its biology based on specimens from Suriname. An updated key to the known third-stage larvae of American Phileurini is provided.
4008560|Two new species from the Virgin Islands, Metophthalmus muchmorei and Metophthalmus iveii, are described and illustrated. Their relationship to other New World species is discussed.
4009404|Two new saprinine histerids are described and illustrated for the first time: Pachylopus rossi, new species, a wrack-inhabiting species from Baja California and Sonora, Mexico, and Geomysaprinus saulnieri, new species, a rodent burrow-inhabiting species from California, Arizona, and Texas.
4008716|The approximate number of described larvae of each family of Staphyliniformia is compared to the number of described adults at the subfamily, genus and species level for the world, and at the genus level for central Europe and North America. An estimate of additional larvae present in collections but undescribed is given for world subfamilies and genera. Overall, 14 of the 15 families, about 78% of the 68 subfamilies, 9.4% of the 3,933 genera and 1.8% of the 56,236 species have been described as larvae. Description of available undescribed larvae would increase knowledge of subfamilies and genera to about 92.6% and 14.3%, respectively. Some taxonomic, geographic and other aspects of the figures are discussed.
27571113|Metaxina ornata Broun is a rare and poorly known beetle species now in the monotypic family Metaxinidae. We offer this initial report on its association with margarodid scale insects, Ultracoelostoma assimile (Maskell), and sooty mold on southern beech, Nothofagus solandri (Hook. f.) Oerst., in hopes of assisting others in gathering additional information on this phylogenetically interesting species that is restricted to New Zealand.
4009847| The previously unknown female of Onthophagus mirabilis Bates is described. Its affinities to other species of the group are discussed and observations on its biology and collecting methods are given. /// Se describe la hembra anteriormente desconocida de Onthophagus mirabilis Bates. Se discuten sus afinidades con otras especies del grupo, y se presenta informacin acerca de su biologa y mtodos de captura. 
4000103|Aquatic beetles in the costatus Complex of Epimetopus (Hydrophilidae: Epimetopinae) are characterized. A lectotype is designated for E. costatus (LeConte), and the following new species are described: E. punctipennis (Texas, southeastern Arizona, northwestern Mexico), E. fisheri (southeastern Arizona, northwestern Mexico), E. simplex (Honduras), E. apocinus (Costa Rica), E. costaricensis (Costa Rica), and E. panamensis (Panama). Aedeagi of all species are illustrated. Photomicrographs of E. punctipennis are presented.
4009682|The genus Melchus Lacordaire is redescribed to accommodate Melchus leprosus Lacordaire and four new species as follows: M. gomezi Anderson new species (type locality: Costa Rica, Puntarenas, Las Cruces Biological Station), M. jolyi Anderson new species (type locality: Venezuela, Aragua, Rancho Grande Biological Station), M. onorei Anderson new species (type locality: Ecuador, Napo, Santo Domingo de los Colorados), and M. perplexus Anderson new species (type locality: Bolivia, La Paz, San Jose). The genus Daisya Anderson new genus is described to accommodate Daisya umbratilis (Lacordaire) new combination (not examined) and three new species as follows: D. obriani Anderson new species (type locality: Costa Rica, Puntarenas, Reserva Forestal Golfo Dulce), D. andersonae Anderson new species (type locality: Costa Rica, Puntarenas, Estacion Biologia Las Cruces), and D. huetheri Anderson new species (type locality: Panama, Continental Divide Trail [near La Fortuna]). Only 17 specimens of these two genera are known. Adults were collected in mid-elevation moist tropical forest as well as lowland rain forest but virtually no other information is available about natural history. A key to the seven genera of Neotropical Litosomini is included.
4009593|Specimens of Anillina from Argentina are described for the first time. They belong to a new genus, Paranillopsis, and include two new species, P. piguensis (type species) and P. pampensis. External structural features of Paranillopsis show close relationship with the genus Paranillus Jeannel from Magadascar. Their vicariant distribution pattern, as for other taxa with similar patterns, is postulated to have resulted from the breakup of the Gondwanan supercontinent.
4008909|Three new species of flightless Diplotaxis from Oaxaca, Mexico, are described and figured. Newly discovered characters include the complex molar lobe of the right mandible, which promises to be a powerful tool for distinguishing species in the genus.
4007969|Asaphidion flavipes L., a European species, is reported for the first time in Connecticut. It is abundant in a sandy, leaf-covered habitat adjacent to an underground stream. Adults overwinter in this habitat in which Collembola appear to be the most likely prey.
4009608| Staminodeus, new genus, is described for seven species: S. inermis, new species, from Panama; S. curvitibialis, new species, from Colombia and Venezuela; S. denticulatus, new species, from Costa Rica and Panama; S. bispinosus, new species, from Panama; S. forcipis, new species, from Costa Rica; S. dilatatus, new species, from Panama; and S. vectoris, new species, from Costa Rica and Panama. Staminodeus is placed in Derelomini, and is characterized by the putative synapomorphies: carinate rostrum, male with prothoracic leg ventrally denticulate (excepting S. inermis) as well as median lobe internally with complex structures, and female with frontal spine. All species are hypothesized to be associated with the staminodes of the inflorescences of Cyclanthaceae. Field observations on the reproductive behavior of S. vectoris at La Selva, Costa Rica, indicate that the protibia in males is used to displace competitors, whereas the spine in females was used as a point of support while transporting the detached staminodes to oviposition sites on the forest floor. A cladistic analysis with Notolomus basalis LeConte, Perelleschus carludovicae (Gnther), and Systenotelus costaricensis Anderson & Gmez as outgroup taxa hypothesizes the phylogenetic relationships (S. inermis, ((S. curvitibialis, S. denticulatus), ((S. bispinosus, S. forcipis), (S. dilatatus, S. vectoris)))). /// Staminodeus, gnero nuevo, se describe para siete especies: S. inermis, especie nueva, de Panam; S. curvitibialis, especie nueva, de Colombia y Venezuela; S. denticulatus, especie nueva, de Costa Rica y Panam; S. bispinosus, especie nueva, de Panam; S. forcipis, especie nueva, de Costa Rica; S. dilatatus, especie nueva, de Panam; y S. vectoris, especie nueva, de Costa Rica y Panam. Staminodeus se coloca en Derelomini, y se caracteriza por las sinapomorfas putativas: rostro carinado, macho con pata protorcica ventralmente denticulada (exceptuando S. inermis) as como lbulo mediano internalmente con estructuras complejas, y hembra con espina frontal. Se hipotetiza que todas las especies estn asociadas con los estaminoides de las inflorescencias de Cyclanthaceae. Observaciones de campo sobre el comportamiento reproductivo de S. vectoris en La Selva, Costa Rica, indican que la protibia en machos es usada para desplazar competidores, y que la espina en hembras es usada como un punto de apoyo durante el transporte de los estaminoides separados a los sitios de oviposicin en el piso del bosque. Un anlisis cladstico con Notolomus basalis LeConte, Perelleschus carludovicae (Gnther), y Systenotelus costaricensis Anderson & Gmez como grupos externos hipotetiza las relaciones filogenticas (S. inermis, ((S. curvitibialis, S. denticulatus), ((S. bispinosus, S. forcipis), (S. dilatatus, S. vectoris)))). 
4000069|Samples of Coleoptera were obtained by fogging trees (Luehea seemannii Triana and Planch) in a moist seasonal forest in the Canal Zone of Panama. More than 945 species, 56 families, were represented in the 7712 specimens obtained. Species richness and abundance were highest in the minor rainy season (July) samples, less so in major rainy season samples (October) and much less so in dry season samples (March-April). Trophic groups respond differently to seasonal change: herbivores and fungivores have peak abundance in the minor rainy season and steady decline until end of the dry season; predators and scavangers also have a peak in the minor rainy season, decline to the end of the rainy season and level off through the dry season. Herbivores constitute the major component of the samples, followed by predators, scavengers, and fungivores. Taxon distribution throughout the 19 sampled trees was low; a herbivor species was found on average in only 2.36 trees, a predator species in only 1.76 trees. Size distribution data showed that dry season species tend to be smaller than wet season ones and it is suggested that water loss, not heat buildup, is an important factor governing tropical arthropod size.
4008059|Ten carrion beetle traps were placed in 4 distinct habitats of a reservation at Cheltenham, Prince Georges Co., Maryland. Half of the traps were baited with exposed fetal pig carrion and the other half were covered with sand. Pig carrion under 1 cm of sand was not more difficult for Silpha americana, and other silphids, to locate than was exposed carrion. Pig carrion under 2 and 3 cm of sand was clearly more difficult for Silpha americana, and other silphids, to locate than was exposed carrion. Pig carrion under 4 cm of sand was virtually impossible for Silpha americana, and other silphids, to locate.
4007944|An updated distribution is presented for the Old World coccinellid, Coccinella undecimpunctata L., in eastern North America and a new record for the Pacific Northwest is reported. Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Oregon represent new state records, and additional localities are given for Massachusetts and New York, along with the first specific localities for New Jersey. The railroad is implicated in the fortuitous dispersal of this aphid predator.
4000017|New distributional data and adult and larval host records are presented for 85 species in the genus Acmaeodera. Seven species are recorded for the first time from Mexico and one is new to Central America. A. neoneglecta Fisher is recorded from the United States and compared with A. tubulus (Fabricius). Adult behavior of A. plagiaticauda Horn is discussed.
3999441| Ozoctenus vaurieae n. sp. (type-locality, Brazil, State of So Paulo, Caraguatatuba) is described from several localities in southeastern Brazil. The new species is compared to the 2 other known species of the genus, Ozoctenus jubatus Pascoe (from the Amazonian Region) and Ozoctenus dufaui Hustache (from Guadeloupe), and a key is presented. 
4009775|Scarab beetles of four species, Onthophagus penicillatus Harold, O. rudis Sharp, Phaeochridius derasus (Harold) and Phaeochroops gilleti (Benderitter) (Scarabaeoidea: Scarabaeidae and Hybosoridae) were attracted by quinonous defensive secretions of Harpagophoridae (Diplopoda) in Sabah, Borneo. Unlike the Afrotropics, where some specialists feed on fresh millipede carcasses, in Borneo only generalist necrophages use this resource. This may be caused by the low abundance of juliform Diplopoda in Borneo prohibiting specialization on this resource.
4009563|The genus Listroptera Audinet-Serville (type species Callidium tenebrosum Fabricius) is revised and the following species redescribed: L. tenebricosa (Olivier) and L. carbonaria Chevrolat. Aguassay, new genus, is described based on Cerambyx collaris Klug, up to now belonging to Listroptera. Aguassay collaris (Klug), new combination, is redescribed and its geographical distribution widened. A key to recognize the neotropical genera Dihammaphora Chevrolat, Haenkea Tippmann, Listroptera Audinet-Serville and Aguassay, all of which form a homogeneous group within the tribe Cleomenini, is also included.
4008331|It is hypothesized that the 10 species of the gularis species group of the genus Anthonomus Germar constitute a monophyletic group on the basis of morphological characters. Furthermore, some of the species are known to have host plants in the genus Cassia (Fabaceae) and none are known to have host plants in any other genus. Various morphological characters were used as evidence to propose a hypothesis of the phylogenetic relationships of the species to each other. The species are primarily neotropical in distribution although two, A. rufipennis LeConte and A. gularis LeConte, do occur in the eastern United States. A diagnosis and description of the group and of each species in the group, as well as a key to the species and illustrations of important characters, are presented as aids in identifying the species. Six new species are described: A. macarioi from Mexico, A. gallinae from Belize, A. estebani and A. faustinoi from Brazil, A. felipae from Panama, and A. melitoni from Peru. The name A. cossonoides Champion is placed in new synonymy under A. instabilis Faust and the names A. virgo Dietz and A. unicus Blatchley are synonymized with A. rufipennis.
4008596|Dyscinetus morator (Fab.) adults were found burrowing in the crowns of waterhyacinth plants in northcentral Florida. Adults caged on waterhyacinth in the laboratory readily crawled underwater to feed or to escape disturbances. They remained active in forced submergence tests for up to 3 h and survived submergence periods as long as 36 h. Eggs were deposited in sphagnum peat moss but not on waterhyacinth. One larva fed excised waterhyacinth roots and peat moss completed development after 105 days.
4008316|A new species, Sambus isis, from the Philippine Islands is described. Field collection data and host plants are reported based on collecting concentrated near Los Banos, Laguna, Luzon, for 24 species of Acmaeodera, Agrilus, Belionota, Chrysobothris, Chrysodema, Dicercomorpha, Epidelus, Sambus and Trachys.
27571103|The genus Cryptorhynchus Illiger 1807 is reviewed for the United States and Canada. Five species are recognized; C. fuscatus LeConte, C. helvus LeConte, C. obliquus Say, resurrected combination, C. lapathi (Linnaeus) and C. tristis LeConte. Sternochetus woodruffi Sleeper is a new junior synonym of C. helvus. Cryptorhynchus minutissimus LeConte is transferred provisionally to Acalles Schoenherr near Acalles sablensis Blatchley as Acalles minutissimus (LeConte), new combination. A neotype is designated for C. obliquus (Say). A key to the five species is presented along with brief diagnoses, and summaries of natural history and distribution.
4010066|A study of the holotype of Nothogaster paradoxa Lacordaire 1866 revealed that it consists of parts of two different insects glued together. The anterior part (head and thorax) belongs to Orphanobrentus curvirostris Chevrolat 1839 (Coleoptera, Brentidae) whilst the posterior part (abdomen without legs and genitalia) belongs to Figulus anthracinus Klug 1833 (Coleoptera, Lucanidae). According to the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature, the anterior part is considered herein as the holotype and the posterior part is excluded as extraneous. Consequently, Nothogaster Lacordaire 1866 becomes the senior objective synonym of Orphanobrentus Damoiseau 1962 new synonymy and Orphanobrentus curvirostris Chevrolat 1839 the senior subjective synonym of Nothogaster paradoxa Lacordaire 1866 new synonymy. The following new combinations are also established: Nothogaster curvirostris (Chevrolat 1839); N. emarginata (Chevrolat 1839); N. laevicollis (J. Thomson 1858); N. picipes (Olivier 1807); N. punctatissima (Kleine 1920); and N. suturalis (Quentin 1966).
4008097|The presence of paired unbranched pouches opening into the vagina is recorded in all of 31 species of Eumolpinae (23 reported here for the first time) studied. Paired 2-, 3-, or 4-branched vaginal pouches are recorded here from 8 species of Cassidinae additional to the 8 species in which they were recorded by Stammer (1936), Donia (1958), and Kasap (1975), also for 5 species of Hispinae in addition to the 3 in which they were found by previous authors. Many-branched paired vaginal pouches are reported here from all of 9 species of Sagrinae studied. Simple vaginal pouches are here recorded also for Aulacoscelis and the disteniid Cheloderus. Absence of such pouches, reported by Stammer in 2 species of Cassidinae, and by Donia (1958) and Kasap (1975) in 1 species of Hispinae, was found by us in 2 further species of Hispinae. Such organs have not been found in any species, studied by us or by others, of Bruchinae, Donaciinae, Criocerinae, Orsodacninae, Megalopodinae, Zeugophorinae, Chrysomelinae, Megascelinae, Camptosomata, Synetinae, Galerucinae, or Halticinae. Anterior and posterior mid-gut caeca have been found in the adult alimentary canal in all of 31 species of Eumolpinae studied by us or by others, and in all 3 species of larvae of the group so far studied. In adult Hispinae, anterior mid-gut caeca have been found by us in those species dissected which have vaginal pouches but not in those lacking them; we have no data on the larval alimentary canal in this group. Those adult Cassidinae so far studied which have anterior mid-gut caeca also have vaginal pouches, and Stammer (1936) found that in Cassida, larval mid-gut caeca were found only in species possessing them in the adult. In Sagrinae and Donaciinae, anterior mid-gut caeca have been found in the larvae only. The possible adaptive significance of these findings is discussed.
4008202|Cicindela (Cylindera) ibana, a new species from Sarawak, Borneo is described and figured.
4008136|The first and final larval instars of Megacerus discoidus, M. eulophus, M. insulatus, and M. maculiventris are illustrated and described. The chaetotaxy, head, antenna, clypeolabrum, epipharynx, mandible, maxilla, labium, leg, spiracle, and sulcus, and egg are described. In addition, scanning electron micrographs of the egg chorion of M. baeri, M. discoidus, and M. maculiventris are also included. A key to the final instars of M. baeri, M. discoidus, M. eulophus, M. insulatus and M. maculiventris is provided. A key to the first instar larvae of the foregoing species plus M. cubicus is also included. Our data suggest that the current subgeneric classification should be re-examined using both larval and adult characters.
4009257| I used flow cytometry to estimate genome sizes of weevils from ten different weevil lineages (defined by mitochondrial DNA sequence and morphology) within the species Aramigus tessellatus (Say). Two of the lineages were sexual and eight were putatively parthenogenetic (only females were known). Putatively parthenogenetic individuals invariably had higher estimated genome sizes than sexuals, and the mean estimated genome size of the putatively parthenogenetic individuals (10.04  1.46 pg) was about 1.5 times that of the sexual individuals (6.63  .34 pg). These results suggest that most of the putatively parthenogenetic individuals were triploid. Nonetheless, there were differences in estimated genome sizes between lineages, and between individuals within lineages, with a few individuals appearing to be tetraploid. These results support the hypothesis that most lineages of A. tessellatus reproduce by apomictic parthenogenesis. 
4009861|We analyzed data from two beetle taxa, Pselaphinae (Staphylinidae) and Histeridae, collected during a seven-week expedition to Yasuni National Park (Napo Province, Ecuador) during June-August 1999. Smoothed species accumulation curves and richness estimators were used to assess the effectiveness of Berlese extraction, flight intercept traps, light traps, and a combination of other techniques in sampling these two focal taxa. From a total of 3,465 specimens, including 871 pselaphines and 2,574 histerids, we sorted 385 species, 178 pselaphine species and 207 histerid species representing 62 pselaphine genera and 63 histerid genera. We offer regional comparisons to assess the scale of diversity documented at Yasuni. Finally, we used these empirical data, richness estimates, and simple percentages to predict that beetle diversity at this site in Yasuni National Park ranges from 9,871 to 14,102 species, and total insect diversity ranges from 24,665 to 35,255 species.
40664372|Bothynus nyx Ratcliffe, new species, is described from Bolivia with supporting illustrations. A key to the five species of Bothynus Hope known to occur in Bolivia is provided.
4009761| A new chrysomeline genus, Ewanius, is described from Tasmania, Australia. The genus is founded on a single species, Ewanius nothofagi new species, a plesiomorphic member of the tribe Gonioctenini Motschulsky. Ewanius is compared with similar genera, particularly Araucanomela Bechyn and Bechyn and Novacastria Selman, and the classification of Chrysomelinae is briefly discussed. All three genera are monotypic and feed on Nothofagus. 
27571096|We report on one of the largest known occurrence of minor morphological anomalies in adult ground beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae) in North America. Carabid beetles were caught in pitfall traps in 2006 in ash (Fraxinus spp.)-dominated stands in southeastern Michigan. About 10% and 32% of the trapped individuals and species, respectively, showed morphological anomalies that ranged widely from the presence of tumors, cysts, fossae, misplaced setae, and missing and fused elytral striae to incomplete pronotum. The genus Pterostichus Bonelli had the greatest numbers of anomalies that were present primarily on the elytra, although the head, pronotum, and abdominal sternites were also affected. Within species, Pterostichus melanarius (Illiger), the introduced European carabid beetle, had the greatest numbers of morphological anomalies. Slightly more females than males with anomalies were caught in these forest stands. The occurrence of such high numbers of morphological anomalies in adult beetles across the central hardwood forests is perplexing, and we suggest future studies focus on elucidating its causes within this forested landscape.
4008358|Fifteen genera and 23 species of carabid beetles were collected by pitfall traps in a spruce budworm-infested forest of northern Maine. Pterostichus adstrictus Eschscholtz and Platynus decentis (Say) were the most abundant species caught. For both study years, significantly more individuals were trapped in uncut residual strips than in clearcut strips or in dense stands. Mean number of species trapped per week did not differ significantly among stands in 1977, but significantly more species were trapped in uncut residual strips than in clearcut strips or in dense stands in 1978. Seasonal activity of carabid beetles was greatest during the early and late larval stages of the spruce budworm. Species diversity of carabid beetles was greater in strip-clearcut stands (uncut residual + clearcut strips) than in dense stands. Individuals were distributed unevenly among species, but were more even in strip-clearcut stands than in dense stands. Coefficients of community (CC) and percentage similarity (PS) values indicated that carabid beetle species and individuals shared forest conditions in common; however, the least similar neighboring habitats (i.e., uncut residual and clearcut strips) had fewer individuals than species in common. Neither age of strip clearcut (1-6 yr) nor litter depth had much influence on mean catches and mean number of species of carabid beetles/trap/week.
3999988|All three larval instars of Morion cordatus Chaudoir, the only species for which the larval form is known for the tribe Morionini, are described. Dorsal and ventral aspects of the third instar larvae and dorsal aspects of the head and terminal abdominal segments of the first instar larvae are illustrated.
4543024|The recently described buprestid genus Petersonia Hawkeswood, 2007 is proposed as a new subjective junior synonym of the large Australasian genus Castiarina Gory & Laporte, 1838. A brief discussion about male antennal modifications in Buprestidae is given. A list of criteria and considerations on erecting genus-group names from an earlier paper by Holm & Schoeman (1999) is repeated verbatim.
4008558|Two mimetic tiger beetles; one resembling a mutillid wasp, the other a meloid beetle, illustrate the potential importance of mimetic coloration in the Cicindelidae. Tiger beetle coloration may function in crypsis, disruption by iridescence, mimicry, and thermoregulation. Similar coloration may serve different functions in different taxa, and multiple functions may be served by a single color pattern in a single taxon.
4008392|Seventeen additional adults of Phyllotreta conjuncta Gentner have been collected in Saskatchewan, bringing to 20 the total number recorded from the province. The additional specimens were taken in woodlands, parklands, and open agricultural prairie and rangeland.
4009326|A revised description of the Rhytirrhininae based on the larval stage is provided, including characters of phylogenetic value. Larvae of seven rhytirrhinine species native to South America are treated. Four of these are described and illustrated for the first time: Antarctobius falklandicus (Enderlein), Listroderes abditus Enderlein, Listroderes bruchi Hustache, and Rhigopsidius tucumanus Heller. Three are redescribed: Listroderes costirostris Schoenherr, Listronotus bonariensis (Kuschel), and Rhigopsidius piercei Heller. Generic level descriptions and redescriptions of larvae are provided. Various biological aspects of Rhytirrhininae are revised, and new information on larval instars and biology of Listroderes bruchi from Argentina is given.
4542993|Hovorigenium ecuadorense, new genus and species from Manabi Province of western Ecuador is described, illustrated and compared to Trigonogenium Harold, 1869 from Argentina and Chile.
3999857|The male of Agrilus esperanzae Knull and the female of Agrilus oblongus Fisher are described, and the male genitalia of A. esperanzae illustrated. Additional information is provided on the distribution and biology of other North American buprestids.
41413638|The natural history of Telegeusis texensis Fleenor and Taber is reviewed and summarized. Over 2,500 male specimens of this species have been reported from Malaise, flight intercept, and light traps in the decade following its description, making it the best known species of the family Telegeusidae. Nevertheless, larvae, larval and pupal microhabitats, and adult females remain undiscovered, and adult males are known only as trapping "artifacts." Hence, only seasonal appearance, flight activity, and the geographic distribution of males have been documented. The paucity of life history biology about this species will likely be remedied only after adult males are detected elsewhere in the habitat than at man-made flight intercept barriers and traps.
4009525| A new species of Ernobius Thomson, E. vinolasi, is described from the Ces Islands (Northwest of the Iberian peninsula). The species' affinities with the E. pini (Sturm) group of species are analyzed. The specimens were found in wood of Pinus pinaster Aiton. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Ernobius Thomson, E. vinolasi, de las Islas Ces (Noroeste de la Pennsula Ibrica). Se analizan sus relaciones con el grupo de especies de E. pini (Sturm). Los ejemplares se encontraron en un bosque de Pinus pinaster Aiton. 
4000086|A new subspecies of Cicindela bellissima, C. b. frechini, is described from WA. Clallam Co., Mukkah Bay. It is characterized by being smaller than the nominate subspecies and in having a statistically significantly narrower humeral lunule.
4008338|Sexual dimorphism in the structure of the hind trochanter in Stenotarsus rotundus (Arrow) is described.
4009848| Johnson and Kingsolver (1981) estimated that there were 140 species of Bruchidae in Mexico. We now know that there are at least 334 species in 23 genera of Bruchidae in Mexico. This increase is due to research that has produced new distribution records and new species. In the checklist the species are listed by genus and distribution records are given for each species. Brief histories on the work of researchers in the New World and estimates of numbers species of bruchids in the New World and worldwide are given. Four names are excluded from a checklist of bruchids of the New World for a variety of reasons. Bruchus ingae Fhraeus (1839) has only been found in southern South America and the original designation from Mexico is considered to be in error. Bruchus serraticornis (Fabricius) was published by Fabricius (1775) on page 65 with a locality as "Habitat in Oriente." Blackwelder (1946) indicated that serraticornis was published by Fabricius (1775) on page 66 (erroneously) and was from "Mexico, Old World." In several recent papers European entomologists (Decelle and Lodos 1989; Borowiec and Anton 1993; Anton et al. 1997) indicated that serraticornis (Fabricius) was in the Old World genus Bruchidius. The name is therefore excluded. Bruchus triangularis Say (1831:1) and B. oculatus Say (1831:2), both from Mexico, were among the species described by Say (1831) whose types were apparently lost. These names cannot be applied to any species with any degree of certainty because of inadequate descriptions by Say. They continue to appear on checklists but not in the literature, so after 170+ years we consider them to be nomina dubia and therefore they were removed from the checklist. 
4008182| An unusual modification of the protibia in males of a species of Strongylium (probably S. decoratum Mklin) from Panama is described and illustrated. A Strongylium species from Brazil with almost identical coloration and having a similar protibial modification in the male is described. Such modifications have never been described for any of the members of the enormous genus Strongylium. 
4008456| Petrejoides reyesi sp. nov. is described from cloud forest above 1870 m on La Tigra Mountain near Tegucigalpa. This is the first record of this genus from Honduras. It is apparently closely related to P. guatemalae Reyes-Castillo and Schuster from the mountains of western Guatemala. /// Se describe Petrejoides reyesi sp. nov. del bosque nebular situado por arriba de 1870 m en Cerro La Tigra cerca de Tegucigalpa. Esta es la primera cita del gnero para Honduras. Aparentemente, est muy relacionada con P. guatemalae Reyes-Castillo y Schuster de las montaas del oeste de Guatemala. 
4000150|Larvae of Pedilus inconspicuus (Horn) were collected from decaying acorns and determined from reared adults. They are described and illustrated. The presence of urogomphal pits suggests that the Pedilidae are distinct from the Anthicidae. Phenological data are presented for one local population from central California.
27571138|Tyrtaeus rufus Champion and Tyrtaeus dobsoni Hinton (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae: Anopidiina) are reported for the first time from Florida. Diagnoses of both species are presented, with illustrations, distributional and known biological data. Tyrtaeus guadeloupensis Dajoz is synonymized under Tyrtaeus rufus Champion NEW SYNONYMY. Tyrtaeus rufus is redescribed, and reported for the first time from Mexico, Costa Rica, Panama, Columbia, Venezuela, and the West Indian islands of Grand Cayman and Dominica. New records for Tyrtaeus dobsoni are reported for Luzon, Leyte and Samar of the Philippine Islands, and Majuro Atoll of the Marshall Islands. Tyrtaeus is incorporated into the North American tenebrionid key to genera in American Beetles.
3999828|The type material of Phaenonotum laevicolle Sharp 1882, Pelosoma sordidum Sharp 1882, and Pelosoma lafertei Mulsant 1844 was studied. Lectotypes are designated for Phaenonotum laevicolle and Pelosoma sordidum, and remarks on all 3 species are presented.
29739230|The new species is diagnosed and its distinctive structures are illustrated. A new key to the species of Xyloryctes is provided. /// La nueva especie es diagnosticada y sus estructuras distintivas son ilustradas. Se provee una nueva clave para separar las especies de Xyloryctes.
4008000|The larva and pupa of Cytilus alternatus Say are described and illustrated. Some ecological information is also reported. A key to the known genera of Nearctic byrrhid larvae is provided.
4009759| Pseudokarumia Pic is moved from the Dascillidae to the Telegeusidae where it becomes the third known genus for that family. The characters placing this genus, and the presence of undescribed members in Costa Rica and Panam, are discussed. A key to the world genera of adult male Telegeusidae is provided. 
4009288| Scratch marks of various forms were observed on the cuticle of larger aquatic beetles. The distribution of multiple scratches (MS), those that occur as groupings of deep parallel lines, was recorded from a sample of 1,233 beetles of the taxa Austrodytes Watts, Cybister Curtis, Dytiscus L., Homoeodytes Rgimbart, Hydaticus Leach (Dytiscidae) and Hydrophilus Mller (Hydrophilidae) from a variety of geographical areas. The number of scratches differed significantly between taxa, being highest in Austrodytes, Cybister and Homoeodytes. Also, beetles from tropical areas had a higher incidence of MS than beetles from north temperate and subarctic regions. The number of MS did not differ between sexes but increased with age of the beetle. They do not appear to be caused by collection or handling of the specimens. It is postulated that MS are produced by predator attacks and are most prevalent amongst large beetles that occur in relatively open habitats in tropical areas. The predator involved is not known but the nature of the MS and the habitat and geographical distribution of beetles bearing MS makes snakes the most likely candidate. Taxa with the greatest frequency of MS also had the thickest cuticle suggesting that predation pressure may be a factor selecting for thick, hard to grasp cuticle. 
4000083|A new subspecies of Megacheuma brevipennis (LeConte), M. b. tiemanni Hovore, is described from China Lake in southeastern California, and the nominotypical subspecies is briefly characterized. A second, apparently undescribed phenotype from extreme eastern California, represented by but a single specimen, is discussed but not named. Biological data for the new subspecies are summarized, and other species of Coleoptera coinhabiting the host plant are listed.
4008510|A new species, Lepidocnemeplatia denticulata, is described from Brazil. Lepidocnemeplatia sericea (Horn) is reported from Mexico (8 states) for the first time, and L. laticollis (Champion), described from Panama, is now known from Costa Rica and Venezuela.
4009339|Description of structures of the three instars of Hydrotrupes palpalis Sharp are presented including detailed chaetotaxal and porotaxal analyses. Larvae of Hydrotrupes Sharp are compared phylogenetically with those of seven genera of the subfamily Colymbetinae. Hydrotrupes is hypothesized to be closely related phylogenetically with Agabus Leach and Ilybius Erichson based on absence of the primary pore FRe, the more distal insertion of the primary seta CO7 on procoxa, and the presence of an additional spine on the maxillary stipes. Larvae of Hydrotrupes are distinguished from all other colymbetine genera by the remarkably modified and autapomorphic primary setae AB8 and AB14 found apico-laterally on abdomen segment 8, and the absence of a mandibular channel.
3999855|A new species of Isoplastus Horn, I. uncus, is described from Mexico, extending the geographic range of the genus into Central America.
3999588|Casey (1912) raised the genus Pelecyphorus Solier from synonymy with Asida Latreille, and designated Pelecyphorus mexicanus Solier as type-species. He considered Philolithus Lacordaire as a junior synonym of Pelecyphorus, but designated Pelecyphorus carinatus LeConte as type-species of Philolithus. Examination of adult and larval specimens revealed that the 2 type-species are not congeneric. Therefore Philolithus is raised from synonymy and placed in it are 31 nominal species and subspecies formerly in Pelecyphorus. The genus Pelecyphorus is restricted to its type-species P. mexicanus. Lectotypes of P. carinatus and P. mexicanus are designated, and the type-locality of P. mexicanus is restricted. Three former species of Pelecyphorus are placed in other genera: Asidina semilaevis (Horn) NEW COMB., Stethasida laevigata (Papp) NEW COMB., and Notiasida lugubris (Wilke) NEW COMB. An illustrated key is presented to the 26 genera of the tribe Asidini in North America including Mexico.
4009171|We used a laboratory experiment to test whether larvae of the carabid Pterostichus adstrictus Eschscholtz segregate vertically in the soil from adults of P. melanarius (Illiger) to avoid predation. Most P. adstrictus larvae remained in the top soil stratum, and did not move deeper in the presence of adult P. melanarius. Both predation by P. melanarius adults on larvae of P. adstrictus and larval cannibalism occurred during experiments.
4000124|Parrotfeather, Myriophyllum aquaticum, is the first reported natural host for larvae of Lysathia ludoviciana (Fall), although adults have been collected from many plant species. The mean duration of the life cycle was 26 days. There were 3 larval instars.
4009139|Pitfall traps in operation for 14 consecutive months in an old-field habitat in Washington County, Mississippi, captured 102 larval Cotinis nitida (L.) (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Cetoniinae) during the period of August to December. Head capsule measurements of the larvae indicated that three instars were present, with their occurrence showing a seasonal progression. Peak surface larval activity occurred in October and November, with no larvae captured on the soil surface between mid-December and early August. Adult beetles were not detected by a variety of methods during the entire sampling period. Successional changes in the habitat may have influenced the observed pattern of beetle occurrence and activity.
4000047|A new species of Apotomus, A. reichardti is described from Jacare, (near the former Xingu National Park), Mato Grosso, Brazil. The discovery of this species records the tribe Apotomini in the New World for the first time. Plesiotypic character states and the occurrence of the species in interior Brazil indicate that it is an old relict rather than a recent introduction. Preliminary character state analysis indicates old relationships with Ethiopian and Australian species. A modern revision of the tribe is needed to provide a basis for phylogenetic and zoogeographic hypotheses. /// Uma nova especie de Apotomus, A. reichardti e descrita, procedente de Jacare (perto do antigo parque nacional do Xingu) Mato Grosso, Brasil. Essa especie registra, pela primeira vez a ocorrencia da tribu Apotomini no novo mundo. O estado plesiotypico dos caracteres, bem como a sua ocorrencia no interior do Brasil indicam uma especie relictual e nao a introducao recente. A analise preliminar dos estados dos caracteres indicam antigas afinidades com especies etiopicas e australianas. Para as hipoteses zoogeograficas e filogeneticas se torna imperativo uma eventual e futura revisao da tribu que provera a necessaria base morfotaxonomica.
4008340|First and final larval instars of Gibbobruchus mimus (Say) are described using illustrations and scanning electron micrographs. Characters described include habitus, antenna, clypeolabrum, epipharynx, mandible, maxilla, labium, prothoracic plate, spiracle, leg, anal aperature, and chaetotaxy. A brief description of the egg is provided, as is a discussion on larval biology. Included in the latter are probable co-evolutionary stategies employed by bruchid and host which directly affect survival of the first instar.
3999966|This article presents 6 new Nearctic species of the genus Enochrus (E. pseudochraceus, E. interruptus, E. aridus, E. sharpi, E. sayi, and E. negrus) and 7 subspecies (E. carinatus carinatus, E. c. fucatus, E. piceus piceus, E. p. glabrus, E. pygmaeus pygmaeus, E. p. nebulosus, and E. p. pectoralis). The controversial E. pygmaeus and E. hamiltoni groups are discussed. Enochrus hamiltoni, E. horni, E. conjunctus, and E. collinus are combined as a highly polymorphic species (E. hamiltoni) which can only be divided into color-forms and not subspecies. Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated for many of the Enochrus described by LeConte, Horn, Fall, Melsheimer, and Zimmerman.
4009202| A fossil beetle from an Oligocene site near Izarra, lava, has yielded the first fossil record of the family Anobiidae in Spain. The fossil belongs to the genus Ernobius Thomson and represents a new species, E. alonsoi, new species. 
4009552|This paper describes the morphology and histology of the adult digestive system of Cephalodesmius armiger Westwood (Scarabaeini), a beetle that manufactures compost out of plant matter. This species' digestive system is compared to those of genera Phanaeus, Coprophanaeus and Copris (Coprini), that feed on vertebrate dung. The major finding reported in this study is that C. armiger has a sac-like colon, a structure similar to the fermentation chamber of phytophagous beetles, not found in other Scarabaeinae.
4008931|Based on observations made in Chiapas, Mexico, females of the Neotropical anthribid Ptychoderes rugicollis Jordan bore deep oviposition holes in dead wood using only their ovipositors, a behavior apparently unreported in Curculionoidea. A single male attends each female rather casually while she is boring the hole, but guards her more closely after copulating and while she oviposits. Brushing the sawdust from the female's abdomen may be a sensory or an allogrooming behavior. Examination of the ovipositor shows features associated with this method of oviposition to include: the long, stiff ovipositor; the form, position, and strength of the teeth on the apical toothed plate; and the fusion of the toothed plate to the coxite.
4008919|Cymatodera barri from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and figured. Comparison is made with Cymatodera maculifera Barr (1948), a similar species known from Arizona and Mexico, which is figured here for the first time.
3999987|Trigonoscutoides texanus, a new nocturnal weevil from northwest Texas collected mainly in the spring, is associated with shin oak (Quercus sp.). Adults are compared with Trigonoscuta and Miloderoides. The adult characters shared by Trigonoscutoides and Trigonoscuta are probably due to convergence, since the members of both genera burrow in sand. The new genus has numerous characters that distinguish it from Trignoscuta, indicating at most a distant relationship. The new genus and species are described, male and female genitalia are illustrated, and a habitus photograph is included.
3999401|Tyletelmis mila, a new genus and species, is described from Brazil and French Guiana. A new genus, Tolmerelmis, is erected to contain Heterelmis pubipes Hinton of Brazil and Argentina.
4008935|Cyclocephala letiranti is described from the Monte Verde cloud forest in Puntarenas Province, Costa Rica. The holotype is illustrated and a diagnosis given to distinguish C. letiranti from its sympatric congener, C. sexpunctata Castelnau.
4008019| The larva of the predaceous diving beetle Uvarus granarius (Aub) is described, and the bionomics of that species and of Liodessus affinis (Say) are discussed. In addition, a key to the known genera of Hydroporinae larvae in North America is presented, and generic distinctions in the larvae are briefly discussed. 
4008694|A new genus and species of dryopid beetle, Guaranius carlosi, are described. The dorsal habitus and male aedeagus are illustrated by pen and ink drawings. Possible relationships of Guaranius to two New World dryopid genera, Helichus and Postelichus, are discussed and a couplet is given to distinguish Guaranius from other dryopid genera of the New World.
29739226|Epiphloeinae Kuwert, 1893, (nomen protectum) is preserved over Ichneinae Spinola, 1841 (nomen oblitum). The correct name of the type genus of Epiphloeinae is Epiphloeus Spinola, 1841.
4008107|Decuanellus gladiatus n. sp. and Decuanellus buclavatus n. sp. are described from St. John and St. Thomas in the U.S. Virgin Islands. Decuanellus was previously known from three species, one each from Cuba, Puerto Rico, and Guadeloupe. A key to the five species is given. Decuanellus are flightless, blind weevils associated with leaf litter and rotting wood such as rotten stumps and tree holes. The generic characteristics and nomenclatural status of Decuanellus Osella are discussed.
4008409| This paper adds eight new species, five new records, and several name changes to the known list of Panamanian Scarabaeinae. Three new species from Costa Rica are also included. The new taxa are: Cryptocanthon chiriquinus, Uroxys transversifrons, and Onthophagus dorsipilulus (Panama); Canthon hartmanni, Uroxys nebulinus, Onthophagus atriglabrus, and Onthophagus propraecellens (Panama and Costa Rica); Cryptocanthon lindemanae, Canthidium guanacaste, and Onthophagus andersoni (Costa Rica); and Canthidium macroculare (Panama, Colombia, and Ecuador). New records for Panama include: Canthon viridis championi Bates, Canthon aberrans (Harold), Deltochilum orbignyi Blanchard, Cryptocanthon humidus Howden, and Ateuchus calcaratus (Harold). Nomenclatorial changes are: Eurysternum foedus Gurin-Mneville (for claudicans Kirsch), Phanaeus howdeni Arnaud (for beltianus Howden and Young, nec Bates), Coprophanaeus morenoi Arnaud (for ohausi Howden and Young, nec Felsche), and Oxysternon silenus Castelnau (for zikani Pereira). All species are illustrated and their placement indicated in the previous keys of Howden and Young. 
4543005| Ischyomius hovorei new species (Coleoptera: Pythidae) is described from Costa Rica, (type locality: Costa Rica, Puntarenas Province, Estacin Pittier). The new species is diagnosed, illustrated, and keyed. Ischyomius hovorei can be distinguished from sympatric species of Ischyomius by its distinctive coloration, deeply emarginate tarsomeres, and the relatively long apical elytral spine. 
4010035|The nomenclatural status of Trogoderma yunnaeunsis Zhang and Liu is clarified. T. yunnaneunsis Zhang, Liu, and Jing is found to be a junior synonym of T. yunnaeunsis. The adult is distinguished from 7 different eastern Palearctic species of Trogoderma and from the European T. versicolor (Creutzer). The mature larva of T. yunnaeunsis is described and distinguished from larvae of other Eastern Palearctic Trogoderma for which information is available.
3999875|USNM Carabid types are listed together with their type-localities and status. Correct and original generic placements are indicated alphabetically. Thirty-one lectotypes are selected from syntype pairs of series. All data are computer accessible and organized for immediate update when new types are acquired by the Museum. This limited study serves as a feasibility model for computerization of the USNM insect type collections.
4008661|The final instar of Specularius impressithorax is illustrated and described. Structures illustrated include head capsule, antenna, clypeolabrum, epipharynx, mandible, maxilla, labium, thoracic leg, mesosternum chaetotaxy, thoracic and abdominal spiracles. A short discussion on phylogenetic similarities is presented.
4008436| Lytta incompta, a new species from the Vizcano Region of Baja California, Mexico, is described and its position within the subgenus Paralytta is discussed. 
4009880| Macrosiagon vittata (Erichson), M. mutilata (Gerstaecker) and M. gracilis Manfrini de Brewer are assigned to the new provisional species group vittata on the basis of possessing two protibial apical spurs, a transversely flattened vertex not elevated above the dorsal margin of the eyes and thread-like antennal rami in males. A key to these species is presented and each is redescribed. The following nomenclatural changes are made: M. mutilata (Gerstaecker) (= M. quadrimaculata (Gerstaecker), = M. melanoptera (Chevrolat), = M. vitraci (Fleutiaux and Sall)) new synonymies, and M. vittata (Erichson) (= M. vittata var. biinterrupta Pic, = M. vittata var. bahiensis Pic, = M. vittata var. latelutea Pic, = M. discicollis (Gerstaecker), = M. brasiliensis Pic, = M. pectoralis Pic) new synonymies. Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated for the following species: M. mutilata, M. quadrimaculata and M. vittata. A brief discussion of Macrosiagon taxonomy and phylogenetic relationships within the Macrosiagonini is also presented. 
4009565| New species of Phyllophaga (s.str.) are described from 12 Costa Rican localities as follows: P. tilarana new species, P. tapantina new species, P. talamancana new species, P. guapiloides new species, and P. puntarenosa new species from Cartago y Puntarenas provinces; P. naranjina new species, and P. lorencita new species from Alajuela and Cartago provinces. Most of these species are from submontane rain forests located between 800 and 1,750 m of altitude; P. talamancana and P.naranjina were collected in grasslands or coffee plantations, and P. puntarenosa was collected between 50 and 1,200 m of altitude in areas including tropical deciduous forests. Drawings of male genital capsules, female genital plates and tarsal claws are provided. /// Se describen siete especies nuevas de Phyllophaga (sensu stricto), representadas por 274 ejemplares procedentes de 12 localidades costaricenses: P. tilarana n.sp., P.tapantina n.sp., P. talamancana n.sp., P. guapiloides n.sp., and P. puntarenosa n.sp. de las provincias de Cartago y Puntarenas; P. naranjina n.sp., and P. lorencita n.sp. de las provincias de Alajuela y Cartago. La mayor parte de stas habitan en bosques lluviosos premontanos situados entre los 800 y 1,750 m de altitud; P. talamancana y P. naranjina fueron recolectadas en potreros y plantaciones de cafeto, y P. puntarenosa se encontr en una variedad de ambientes ubicados entre los 50 y 1,200 m de altitud, incluyendo bosques tropicales caducifolios. Se incluyen ilustraciones de las cpsulas genitales masculinas, de las placas genitales femeninas y de las uas tarsales. 
4007903|Four species of Lignyodes, L. enucleator (Panzer), L. uniformis Desbrochers, L. muerlei Ferrari, and a new species, L. dieckmanni, occur in Turkey. Most of the species have been collected on Fraxinus (Oleaceae). Male genitalia of L. enucleator, L. uniformis, and L. dieckmanni are illustrated and compared with each other and with other Lignyodes. The new species resembles the North American L. bischoffi (Blatchley) in metatibial armature, but on balance of other characters appears to be more closely allied to the native palearctic species, and therefore is assigned to the subgenus Lignyodes, s. str., rather than to Lignyodius Dieckmann.
4009128|Oaxacanthaxia nigroaenea Nelson and MacRae, new species, is described from the Mexican state of Oaxaca. Its relationship to the recently described O. viridis Bellamy is discussed and necessary modifications in the generic characterizations are given.
4008441|Adult cholevine beetles were sampled at weekly intervals with carrion-baited pit traps from April to November 1979 in four habitats in southern Ontario. Eleven species in five genera, represented by a total of 5,956 specimens, were caught. Of the seven commonly collected species, five showed broadly unimodal adult activity, with the other two, Catops basilaris Say and Ptomaphagus brevior Jeannel, each exhibiting distinct peaks of activity in late spring (May-June), and late summer (August-September). The remaining four species collected were all represented by too few specimens for reliable generalizations to be made. Eight species were most abundant in deciduous forest. Catops simplex Say and C. basilaris were most abundant in coniferous forest. Catops alsiosus (Horn) was most abundant in marshlands. No species was most abundant in the old field habitat. Only Catops alsiosus, C. americanus Hatch and C. basilaris exhibit marked habitat separation. The apparent generalist scavenging feeding and rapid reproduction of cholevines may account for the limited temporal and spatial separation of activity peaks of adults in this study.
4009781|A scanning electron micrograph study was conducted of adult Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel to determine the types and locations of sensory structures on the antennae. The antenna consists of a scape, six-segmented funicle, and club. Females had significantly longer antennal segments than males, but no other sexually dimorphic characteristics were found. Trichoid sensilla, two types of squamaform sensilla, tuft hairs, and hydrofuge scales were found on the antennae. The distal third of the club was densely covered by trichoid sensilla that likely function in gustation and olfaction. Hydrofuge scales were on the antennal club, and plumose hydrofuge scales were on the rostrum. Squamiform sensilla were among the plumose hydrofuge scales on the rostrum. The information gained from this study may be used to design electrophysiological studies to provide information about the attractiveness of volatile compounds from rice plants and potential weevil pheromones. Aspects of the plastron of the weevil are also discussed. The antennae of rice water weevils have sensilla and hydrofuge adaptions for an aquatic environment and were found to be unique when compared to five species of terrestrial weevils.
4000087|Black light catches of adults of the introduced elaterids Conoderus exsul Sharp and Conoderus falli Lane, at Riverside and Olive, California, increased markedly when the method of hand collecting adults in 1975-76 from a canvas placed below a BL was replaced by a regulation survey type BL trap. The latter trap collected a total of 12,642 C. exsul adults at the two locations in 1977-78. At Riverside in the same period, 4,585 C. falli adults were trapped. These catches indicate that both species have found food, soils, and climate favorable for survival.
4008137|New distributional, host plant and other ecological data are presented for 70 species of Cerambycidae from the western and southwestern United States. Included are 89 new host records and 9 new state records.
4009242|Twenty-three species of Cicindelidae (tiger beetles) that have been reported from South Carolina are described. Photographs, range maps, and seasonal data for each are included, along with a key to species. A new state record is established for Cicindela nigrior (Schaupp).
40983339|The taxonomic status and nomenclature of four species of Eleodes Eschscholtz are clarified. Eleodes anachronus, new species, which has been confused with Eleodes blapoides Eschscholtz, is described. Eleodes hepburni Champion, described from Mexico, is established as the valid name for a species found in both Mexico and the United States, with Eleodes compressitarsis (new synonymy), Eleodes beameri, Eleodes bryanti, and Eleodes palmerleensis, all described by Blaisdell, as synonyms. Eleodes ventricosus LeConte (new status) and Eleodes macrurus Champion (new status) are considered as subspecies of Eleodes spinipes Solier from Mexico. Eleodes ventricosa falli Blaisdell is a synonym of E. spinipes macrurus (new synonymy). Eleodes sonorae Champion is a synonym of Eleodes arcuatus Casey (new synonymy).
4007877|Analysis of reared larvae and supposed larvae of the tribe Pseudomorphini from collections show that evolution due to life with ants has affected larval form and behavior along at least two pathways. An Australian genus, Sphallomorpha, has members which are commensal with and preying on their host. The sole North American genus (also found in South America) and an unknown Australian genus (larvae cannot be placed to genus) are inquilines in the nests of their ant-hosts. The New World group, Pseudomorpha, apparently has a larval chemical defense which repels ants. The chemical is probably volitized from special setae on the head and thorax; the setae are mostly concentrated toward the anterior part of the animal and have a tuberculate mushroom-shaped surface. Larvae of Pseudomorphini are characterized by a combination of characteristics: setiform inner lobe and single-articled outer lobe of the maxilla; absence of urogomphi and prostheca; unequal tarsal claws; antennae subequal in length to mandible; open or barely closed frontal plate; and unarmed pygopod. Phylogenetic analysis of larval and adult external features in Pseudomorphini do not shed much light on their relationship among the carabids. Male genital features suggest relationship to a basal Pterostichite or Psydrite stock. It is suggested that internal features, not so dramatically selected by ants, may help more in elucidating relationships. Finally it is suggested that the Pseudomorpha larval chemical repellent be collected and analyzed for possible production and use in control of fire ants or other noxious formicid pests, and that a study of adult pseudomorphines which must lay eggs in ant nests may also show repellent features potentially useful to human society.
4009489| Third-instar larvae of the zoline genera Oopterus Gurin-Mneville and Idacarabus Lea are described and illustrated. It is confirmed that both studied taxa belong to the supertribe Trechitae; however, monophyly of Zolini remains doubtful. Larvae of the studied taxa possess a set of almost exclusively plesiomorphic character states and the relationships of the two genera within Trechitae are not evident. 
4543008|Xylotrechus hovorei, new species, is described from southern California, and its host plant and larval biology are characterized. Separation from closely related species of Xylotrechus is discussed.
4009663|Dung beetles of the genus Onthophagus Latreille are used as model systems in behavioral ecology, evolutionary biology, and insect development. In the past, studies on the developmental control of larval and adult form, and studies that seek to integrate development, evolution, and ecology, have been handicapped by experimenters' inability to determine the sex of developing larvae. Here we present a straightforward, reliable, and non-invasive method that permits sexing of Onthophagus Latreille larvae during their early to mid third instar.
4009831|Through physiological ovary studies and the use of indoor systems, we improved egg production and offspring survival of Copris tripartitus Waterhouse. We also tested the effects of a lack of maternal care on offspring. Second larval instars died when brood balls were separated from females. Third instar larvae or pupal stage survival was significantly lower than that recorded in brood balls cared for by females. New adult body weights and pronotal sizes were also significantly lower in those emerged from brood balls separated from mothers than those cared for by them. The results shed light on the survival and reproduction of adults that emerged indoors as compared to those observed in populations under natural conditions.
4009884|A taxonomic study of Bryothinusa Casey in Korea is presented. Four species are recognized, two of which are described as new species (B. gangjinensis, Type locality--Gangjin, Jeonnam Prov., Korea and B. koreana--Type locality--Jindo Is., Jeonnam Prov., Korea). Types and paratypes of the new species are designated. The other two species (B. minuta Sawada and B. nakanei Sawada) are reported for the first time in Korea. Spermatheca of B. nakanei is illustrated for the first time. Illustrations of diagnostic features and a key are provided.
4008420|The rearing of Genuchinus muzo Krikken is described, and adult flight behavior is commented on.
4009684|A new species, the Seth Forest water scavenger beetle, Hydrochus spangleri Hellman (Coleoptera: Hydrophiloidea: Hydrochidae), is described and illustrated; notes on its biology are included. Known since the 1970's from a single large, vernal pool in Talbot County, Maryland, this apparent Delmarva endemic became a subject of interest and concern when human destruction of its unique habitat in 1982 left the survival of the species open to question. Surveys of depressed wetlands throughout the Delmarva Peninsula during 1997-2002 led to the rediscovery of the beetle at five vernal pools, including the type locality, although abundance there is now relatively low. The pools are all confined to two small forest fragments in Talbot County situated in a predominately agricultural and residential landscape. An additional record, represented by a single specimen collected in 1982 from New Castle County, Delaware, was found in the University of Delaware collection; however, the exact location of this site is uncertain.
4010004| Catogenus inbio Ivie and lipiski new species is described from Costa Rica. It is illustrated, and incorporated into existing keys. Catogenus rufus (Fabricius), C. castaneus (Perty), Taphroscelidia rostrata (Sharp) and Passandra fasciata (Gray in Griffith) are recorded from Costa Rica for the first time. 
4008940| Plusiotis curoei, n. sp. and Plusiotis beraudi, n. sp. are described from San Jos Province, Costa Rica. Dorsal habitus and male and female genitalia of both species are illustrated. 
27571134|The following new synonyms are proposed for the genera and species of flea beetles predominantly from the Oriental Region: Pseudocrypta Medvedev, 1996 and Sebaethiella Medvedev, 1993 = Acrocrypta Baly, 1862; Bhutajana Scherer, 1979 = Aphthona Chevrolat, 1836; Burmaltica Scherer, 1969 = Aphthonaltica Heikertinger, 1924; Aphthonomorpha Chen, 1934 and Manobidia Chen, 1934 = Bikasha Maulik, 1931; Garuda Scherer, 1969 = Chalaenosoma Jacoby,1893; Priostomus Jacoby, 1884 = Chaloenus Westwood, 1862; Throscoryssa Maulik,1928 = Clitea Baly, 1877; Eucyclomela Chen, 1934 and Schenklingia Csiki & Heikertinger, 1940 = Halticorcus Lea, 1917; Luperaria Medvedev, 1993 = Laboissierella Chen, 1933; Lipraria Medvedev, 1990 = Lipromela Chen, 1933; Asiorella Medvedev, 1990 = Liprus Motschulsky, 1860; Docemasia Jacoby, 1899 = Luperomorpha Weise, 1887; Ceylonaltica Doeberl, 1996 and Mesopa Jacoby, 1903 = Micraphthona Jacoby, 1900; Martensomela Medvedev, 1984 and Nepalicrepis Scherer, 1969 = Microcrepis Chen, 1933; Nepalicrepis darjeelingensis Scherer, 1969 = Microcrepis politus Chen, 1933; Epithrella Medvedev, 1993 and Livoliella Medvedev, 1997 = Orthaltica Crotch, 1873; Chabriosoma Chen, 1934 = Phygasoma Jacoby, 1898; Letzuana Chen, 1934 = Phyllotreta Chevrolat, 1836; Kimotoa Gruev, 1985 = Sphaeroderma Stephens, 1831; Amydus Chen, 1935, Monodaltica Bechyne, 1955, Trachyaphthona Heikertinger, 1924, and Typhodes Samuelson, 1984 = Trachytetra Sharp, 1886. Habitus and/or other morphological structures are illustrated for each genus under consideration. The following new names are proposed: Aphthona gerhardi new name for Aphthona nepalensis (Scherer 1989); Lanka philippina new name for Horaia bicolor (Medvedev 1993); Lanka ogloblini new name for Horaia fulva (Medvedev 1993). The following new combination is proposed: Manobia nigra (Scherer 1969).
4007889|The unique behavior of ovipositing only on seeds exposed on the ground is described for Stator pygidialis. This behavior is related to other aspects of its bionomics and compared to other species with similar ovipositional behavior, namely S. chihuahua, S. sordidus, S. vachelliae, S. mexicanus and S. generalis.
4009109|A setal nomenclatural system is developed for histerid pupae. This is the first study of the chaetotaxy of histerid pupae and the first pupal description for the genus Onthophilus Leach. This system was developed from the study of 26 histerid genera from all recognized histerid subfamilies except Niponiinae, Trypeticinae, and Hetaerinae. A far greater degree of plasticity was detected in the setal distribution pattern of histerid pupae than that occurring in larvae, necessitating caution in generalizing pupal character information.
4009445|This paper reviews the current knowledge of perching behaviour in dung beetles, and records for the first time perching behaviour in three species of Onthophagus Latreille dung beetles in lowland rainforest in Borneo: O. mulleri (Lansberge), O. rorarius (Harold) and O. rugicollis (Harold). Field observations suggest tentatively that perching behaviour may have evolved as a thermoregulatory mechanism in at least two of these species. Ninety-nine dung beetle species were recorded from the Danum Valley Conservation Area, Sabah, and so, unlike other tropical forest sites where this behaviour is relatively common, only a few species display perching behaviour, suggesting differences in forest structure and/or resource supply between this and other forests.
4000097|Eight species of Phaleria inhabit coastal areas of the United States and Baja California. Four of these, P. rotundata LeConte (= P. limbata Horn), P. debilis LeConte (= P. insularis Champion), P. pilifera LeConte, and P. lata Blaisdell, occur on the Pacific Coast; the other four, P. testacea Say (= P. longula LeConte), P. picipes Say, P. gracilipes Casey (= P. lodingi Blaisdell), and P. punctipes LeConte, occupy the Atlantic Coast. Keys to adults, diagnoses, and distribution maps are presented. Ecology and evolutionary relationships are discussed.
4009114| Micropeplus smetanai Campbell, previously known only from southern British Columbia, is reported from Manitouwadge, Ontario, Canada. The species is redescribed and compared to M. laticollis Mklin. The major diagnostic characters are illustrated with scanning electron photomicrographs and the aedeagus is illustrated with line drawings. An unusual sensory structure of the head is discussed and illustrated. 
40389450|A new species of Ernobius is described from material collected at the Griffith State Nursery in Wood County, Wisconsin, U.S.A. Ernobius youngi new species is described from a single adult female bringing the number of Ernobius species known from North America north of Mexico to 31.
3999794|A new species of Buprestidae, Polycesta barri, is described from the states of Michoacan and Oaxaca, Mexico.
4008788|Gabrius astutoides (A. Strand 1946), a species distributed in the western part of the Palaearctic region, is reported for the first time from the northeastern portion of North America. The species is described, illustrated, and the North American records are mapped.
4007913|Two of three species of Scarabaeidae associated with the three toed sloth in the vicinity of Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil are described as new: Trichillum adisi and Uroxys besti. The pupa and third stage larva of T. adisi are described. Ecological aspects of the sloth-scarab associations are discussed.
4009382| The apparent rarity (four specimens known) of Deltochilum valgum acropyge Bates is due to a collecting artifact. Captures of 10 adult specimens in the Mayan Biosfere Reserve, Petn, Guatemala, in traps baited with live millipedes (Diplopoda: Spirobolida), suggest that it is a specialist in millipede predation, of nocturnal habits and has wide geographic distribution in Central American rainforests (20-970m). /// La aparente rareza (cuatro especmenes conocidos) de Deltochilum valgum acropyge Bates se debe a un artefacto de colecta. Capturas de 10 especmenes adultos en la Reserva de la Bisfera Maya, Petn, Guatemala, en trampas cebadas con milpies (Diplopoda: Spirobolida) vivos, sugieren que es un depredador especializado en milpies, tiene hbitos nocturnos y una amplia distribucin en los bosques tropicales hmedos de Centroamrica (20-970m). 
4008536|There is increasing awareness of insect-fungal interactions due to potential economic importance and obvious relationships to nutritional ecology of these organisms. Initial documentation of ptilodactylid-fungal association is presented. Peculiarities in the nature of the utilized fungi are discussed. Correlation of lacinial spore brush modification with these associations is noted, leading to the hypothesis that nutritional specialization and terrestrial larval habitat are derived. These ecological conditions have apparently arisen twice within the Ptilodactylidae.
4009476|The genus Hinda Mulsant is revised and illustrations of pertinent characters are provided. A new species, Hinda joeli is described. Hyperaspis terminata Gorham, Hyperaspis humerata Mulsant and Hyperaspis decemverrucata Mulsant are new combinations. Hinda guttipennis Weise is transferred to Cyra Mulsant as Cyra guttipennis Weise, new combination. A key to the species is added.
4008048|A new species of Buprestidae, Anambodera lucksani is described from southern California. Most of the specimens were collected on the flowers of Eriastrum densifolium Ssp. elongatum (Benth.) Mason; however, two were on flowers of Sphaeralcea ambigua Gray and two on flowers of Salvia sp.
4008076|Neotrachys is redescribed and distinguished from the Old World genus Trachys principally by the sculpture of the pronotum, the lateral carinae of the elytra, and the nature of the epistomal area. Adults have been collected on ferns of the families Cyatheaceae and Gleicheniaceae. A key is presented for the ten species recognized, described, figured, and discussed: N. concinna (Fisher), N. bordoni Cobos, N. resplendens n. sp., N. bicolor n. sp., N. caerulea n. sp., N. cyanipennis (Fisher), N. strandi Obenberger, N. gleicheniae n. sp., N. estebana (Kerremans), and N. segregata (Waterhouse). N. jakovlevi Obenberger is considered restricted to Bolivia.
4008091|The status of Cyllene (=Megacyllene) zuniana Casey is discussed. Based on distributional, biological, and phenotypical differences, zuniana is removed from the status of junior synonym of Megacyllene snowi (Casey) and elevated to subspecific status: Megacyllene snowi zuniana (Casey). Information is given on hosts, larval habits, parasites, and distribution of both subspecies.
4000171|Study of type specimens of Neotropical species of the subfamily Agrilinae in the museums of Prague, Paris, and London has revealed a number of necessary nomenclatural changes, both new synonymies and generic transfers, of species presently in or transferred to or from the following genera: Agrilodia, Agrilus, Amorphosoma, Bakerettia, Brachys, Callimicra, Cyphothorax, Diodora, Dismorpha, Geralius, Hylaeogena, Leiopleura, Lius, Neotrachys, Omochyseus, Pachyschelus, Paragrilus, Sambomorpha, Stenogaster, Taphrocerus, and Trachys.
3999847|Natural histories of the neotropical rainforest tree Sickingia maxonii and its weevil seed predator Rosella sickingiae are briefly discussed. Attack rate is highest on the first fruits produced, gradually declining for fruits becoming susceptible later in the season. Up to 6 weevil larvae may attack each fruit; a single weevil per fruit destroys about 25% of the seeds, whereas 4 or more per fruit destroy 100%. However, under the normal, poorly insolated, humid forest conditions, fruits with exit holes are invaded by moth larvae, fungi, rain water, and various fruit scavengers, resulting in loss of remaining viable seeds.
4008394| All known modern and fossil records of Blethisa catenaria Brown, B. quadricollis Haldeman, B. julii LeConte and B. multipunctata Linn are summarised. New modern records of B. catenaria in North America are described, together with new fossil records of B. quadricollis. Comments are made on the associated assemblages of carabid beetles, together with aspects of the Pleistocene history of four Blethisa species. 
3999963|The subfamily Sticholotidinae of the Western Hemisphere is taxonomically treated. The tribes Sukunahikonini, Microweisini, Serangiini, and Sticholotidini are recognized; 5 new genera (Microcapillata, Sarapidus, Nesina, Neotina, Glomerella) are described; 16 new species in various genera are described. The tribe Sukunahikonini is recorded for the first time from the New World. The phylogenies of the subfamily and each tribe are discussed, and a discussion of zoogeography of the subfamily is included.
4009166|The seasonal occurrence of adult Mayetia pearsei Schuster, Marsh and Park was documented in a beech-maple forest in southern Arkansas by monthly sampling of sedge rootballs. The species occurred in samples taken from October through May, and a maximum abundance of 6.5 specimens/kg of sample occurred in December, 1994. Specimens were absent in samples taken from June through September. All 145 specimens collected at the study site were females, suggesting parthenogenesis. Additional locality records from Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina are given for M. pearsei. Finally, a revised key to the six species of Mayetia in the eastern U.S. is provided that will permit identification of females.
4009201| The cosmopolitan buprestid genus Chrysobothris Eschscholtz is briefly discussed. The formerly monotypic Central Asian subgenus C. (Sphaerobothris) Semenov-Tian-Shankij and Rikhter is elevated to genus rank and the monotypic North African subgenus C. (Hoggarobothris) Thry is transferred to subgeneric rank below Sphaerobothris. The single member of Hoggarobothris, C. (H.) dinauxi Thry from Algeria, and two North American species, C. ulkei LeConte and C. platti Cazier, are transferred to Sphaerobothris. 
4008673|Additional data on bionomics and geographical distribution of 25 species of Xantholininae are presented.
4008070|Adults of the weevils Tyloderma spp. A and B and Auleutes bosqi (Hustache) fed on the leaves of Ludwigia peploides (H.B.K.) Raven (water primrose) and appear to have it as their only host plant. They fed only on L. peploides in laboratory tests and were collected only from this plant in the field. Onychylis sp. nr. nitrirostris (Boheman) was collected from L. peploides, Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms (waterhyacinth), and Pistia stratiotes L. (waterlettuce) in the field; in the laboratory it fed on L. peploides, P. stratiotes, and Limnobium stoloniferum (G. F. W. Meyer) Griseb. (frogbit), but not on E. crassipes. The larvae of Tyloderma sp. A and of O. sp. nr. nigrirostris were probably stem borers, but the larvae of A. bosqi fed on the leaves. All 4 species of weevils could be candidates for biological control of these aquatic weeds in the United States and other countries.
4007967|Barutus hartmanni, a new genus and species from Volcan de Baru, Chiriqui, Panama, is described and illustrated. A key to the New World genera of Pentodontini (Scarabaeidae: Dynastinae) is provided.
4009399|The Australian lucanid genus Eucarteria Lea is placed in junior new synonymy with Cacostomus Newman. The sister-taxon of Cacostomus is identified as Casignetus Macleay, from South America. A new name, Casignetini, is given for the tribe Pholidotini Kikuta, which is based on a junior homonym. A key is provided for the species of Cacostomus.
3999883|Fifteen beetle species representing 10 families were found under bark of a live oak (Quercus virginiana) blown down one year previously. Nearly all were evidently feeding on conidia or stromatic tissue of the ascomycete fungus Hypoxylon, a habitat which is briefly discussed. Published European records of beetles from similar hosts in Hypoxylon and Daldinia are summarized, along with some additional records of beetles from these hosts in North America. Additional study of these fungi may shed light on the feeding habits of many of the smaller cucujoid Coleoptera.
3999728|Elaphidionoides occidentalis and Aneflomorpha rectilinea yumae are described as new. The Neotropical Mannophorus forreri Bates and Sphaerion exutum (Newman) are recorded from the southwestern United States for the first time.
4008286| The opatrine lineage of the subfamily Tenebrioninae is redefined for the Nearctic region of North America. The genera Hyocis, Gonocephalum and Cyclosattus are not North American. The relationships of the genera Alaudes, Tonibiastes, Nocibiotes and Tonibius are discussed. Tonibius rossi Blaisdell is transferred to Nocibiotes. The species is illustrated and a modified generic diagnosis is provided for Nocibiotes. A revised key is presented for the Nearctic members of the opatrine tribes and genera. Le lignage des opatrines de la sous-famille Tenebrioninae est reconstruit pour la rgion Narctique de l'Amrique du Nord. Les genres Hyocis, Gonocephalum et Cyclosattus ne sont pas de l'Amrique du Nord. Les rapports systmatiques entre les genres Alaudes, Tonibiastes, Nocibiotes et Tonibius sont examins. Tonibius rossi Blaisdell est transfr parmi les Nocibiotes. L'espce est illustre et une diagnose gnrique modifie pour les Nocibiotes est presente. Une clf modifie est fournie pour les tribus et les genres d'opatrines de la rgion Narctique. 
4009708| Aneurops convergens (Sharp, 1900), new combination, from Arizona, New Mexico, and Mxico is redescribed and compared with the other species of the genus, A. championi Sharp. This is the first record of the genus Aneurops Sharp for North America north of Mxico. 
4008298|The terrestrial larvae and pupae of Helichus suturalis and Helichus productus (Coleoptera: Dryopidae) are described, illustrated, and their biologies discussed. Larval duration was determined to be two or three years for H. suturalis and four or five years for H. productus. Newly emergent females exhibit a full complement of thoracic muscles, enabling dispersal flight. Older females lack flight muscles, necessitating an ambulatory search for oviposition sites. Two experiments conducted in the laboratory determined that the pupal gin-traps aid in eclosion rather than as a defense mechanism. The absence of larval stemmata and opercular claws warrants a further investigation into the limits of the genus Helichus, perhaps the erection of new genera for species that are not allied with the H. lithophilus-group.
3999722|The larval stages of Nebria lacustris may generally be separated from those of N. pallipes by differences in nasale proportions. When the nasale character is indistinct, stadium-specific head capsule measurements afford reliable species identification.
3999660|A peculiar cetoniid beetle, Spilophorus maculatus (Gory & Percheron), belonging to the tribe Cremastocheilini, is reported feeding in nature on the nymphs of a membracid bug, Oxyrhachis tarandus (Fabr.), near Bangalore in southern India. This is the first record of a cetoniid feeding on an insect other than an ant. A redescription of the cetoniid is included together with a short summary of the feeding habits of adult Scarabaeidae.
4008228|Observations on hosts and habitats of the southern Appalachian Dasycerus carolinensis Horn and a new species are given in order to facilitate gathering additional specimens and field observations for eventual classification, evolutionary, and biogeographic studies.
4009385|Three species of Trigonopeltastes Burmeister occur in South America: T. barbatus, new species, from Venezuela; T. geometricus Schaum, from Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela; and T. triangulus (Kirby), from Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay. These species are described, illustrated, and keyed. /// Tres especies de Trigonopeltastes Burmeister se encuentran en America del Sur: T. barbatus, n.sp., de Venezuela; T. geometricus Schaum, de Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador y Venezuela; T. triangulus (Kirby), de Argentina, Brasil y Paraguay. Estas especies se describen, ilustran y se presenta una clave para su identification.
40983325|Hydroscapha redfordi Maier, Ivie, Johnson, and Maddison, new species, is described from a hot spring in northern Idaho. This new record extends the range of the genus in North America, and marks a new northern-most limit for the family worldwide. Hydroscapha redfordi is distinguished from Hydroscapha natans LeConte by both morphological characters and characters of two genes: the mitochondrial gene cytochrome oxidase I and the nuclear gene for 28S ribosomal RNA. Previous species concepts of H natans are reviewed, and several populations inhabiting hot springs in Idaho and Nevada are now hypothesized to be independent species, leading to a prediction of many undescribed species remaining to be discovered.
4009250| Agroiconota urbanae, new species, from Serra do Japi, Jundia, So Paulo, Brasil, is described and incorporated into the key to the genus. 
4009110|A new species of Buprestidae, Agrilus harenus Nelson, is described from California, Imperial County, Algodones Dunes. Its relation to A. lacustris LeConte and variation in the latter species are discussed.
3999887|Mycetochara puncticollis (Blatchley) described from Florida is transferred from the family Alleculidae and provisionally assigned to the genus Hallomenus Panzer of the family Melandryidae.
4007880|Erichsonius antiquus Frank, a new species from the Chiricahua Mountains of Arizona, U.S.A., is described and distinguished from known New World species of Erichsonius. New state or provincial distributional records are given for 6 other New World Erichsonius species. Two subgenera were recognized among Old World Erichsonius (Erichsonius s. str. and Sectophilonthus Tottenham (= Parerichsonius Coiffait, NEW STATUS, NEW SYNONYMY)); these are redefined and redelimited, and the New World species are assigned.
4009536|A group of two closely related species from the southern part of the Afrotropical Region is defined within the Afro-Indian genus Pseudoathyreus. It includes P. rhodesianus Peringuey from southern Zaire and Zimbabwe, and P. freyi Gomes Alves from some localities of southern Mozambique and Natal's coast. The species of this group are easily separated from all the other representatives of the genus by the following characters: (1) elytra with distinctly impressed striae; (2) small size, not exceeding 12 mm in length and 6 mm in width; (3) upper surface of eye clearly reduced; (4) distinctive colour patterns; (5) shape of male genital apparatus; (6) shape of clypeo-frontal carina and pronotal ornamentation; and (7) the geographic distribution extending throughout the Zambezian regional centre of endemism.
4008526| The genus Caryoscapha includes until now only two Palaearctic species: C. limbatum (Erichson) and C. seorsum Lbl. Two species are described in the present paper: C. americanum from the United States and C. monticola from the Himalayas (Nepal and India). A key is provided to separate the species of Caryoscapha. 
4008766|Comments on some names in the family Buprestidae affected by the Leraut (1983) and Cobos (1986) papers include the following genera: Chromophila, Descarpentriesina, Diana, Dicerca, Eudiana, Melanophila, Oxypteris, Phaenops, Poecilonota, Stenuris, Trachypteris, and Xenomelanophila.
4009274|The tiger beetle, Cicindela (Cicindelidia) senilis frosti Varas-Arangua, is extinct over much of its former range in coastal southern California. A new population of C. s. frosti discovered in an inland salt marsh in Lake Elsinore, Riverside county, California is described in this paper. Because it is the only known healthy population of C. s. frosti, the Lake Elsinore population warrants special protection.
4008326|The Anthonomus unipustulatus group contains six neotropical species, three of which are known to have hosts in the plant family Malpighiaceae. Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species are described and illustrated and a key to the species is presented. Three new species are described: A. sisyphus (Mexico, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic), A. frustratus (Mexico, Panama, Venezuela), and A. prodigiosus (Panama). Pseudanthonomus tomentosus Faust is transferred to Anthonomus as A. tomentosus (Faust). Lectotypes are designated for A. unipustulatus Champion and A. thyasocnemoides Hustache.
4008189| A new species, Metadeinopsis balli, from Brazil is described and illustrated, and its relation to the remaining species of the genus is discussed. A modified key to all known species of Metadeinopsis is provided. New locality data for some species of Gymnusa (Tribe Gymnusini) and Deinopsis and Adinopsis (Tribe Deinopsini) are added. /// Une nouvelle espce du Brsil, Metadeinopsis balli, est dcrite et illustre, sa relation au sein du genre est discute. Un tableau d'identification de toutes les espces de Metadeinopsis est prsente. Des informations sur la rpartition des espces de Gymnusa (Tribu Gymnusini), Deinopsis et Adinopsis (Tribu Deinopsini) sont ajoutes. 
4009641|During May 1999, feces baited pit-fall traps were run at the Welder Wildlife Refuge near Sinton, Texas, duplicating, in part, earlier surveys of 1974-75 and 1985. The results show a decline in the number of species of Scarabaeinae and a shift in species composition. Possible explanations for the changes include vegetational-climatic differences over time and the recent increase in the number of the red imported fire ant.
3999456|The first and second stage larvae are described and illustrated for the recently described Hypothyce mixta Howden, from near Garrison, Texas.
40389444|Several woodboring insects thrive in coffee plantations due to a surplus of host material as a result of pruning shade trees. The longhorn beetle Tetrasarus plato Bates (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) disperses and mates at the time this branch pruning is taking place. We describe some general facts of its life cycle and the sexual behavior under field and laboratory conditions.
4008598| The Anthonomus puncticeps group contains six Neotropical species, some of which are known to have hosts in the plant family Malpighiaceae. Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species are described and some of these are illustrated. A key to the species is also presented. Five new species, A. riparius (Argentina, Brazil, Peru); A. onerosus (Brazil, Peru, Venezuela); A. denticulatus (Brazil, Colombia, Peru, Venezuela); A. anomalops (Panam); and A. flavidomus (Brazil), are described. 
4008883|Four new species of the endemic West Indian genus Phaenotheriopsis are described, keyed, and illustrated: P. conciliatus from Puerto Rico and P. tuberculatus, P. verrucosus, and P. umbonatus from the Dominican Republic.
4009048| Bionomic notes are presented for four species of beetles [Vanonus balteatus Werner (Aderidae), Evolocera sp. (Endomychidae), Nemognatha chrysomeloides (L.) and Tetraonyx sp. (Meloidae)] associated with a mixed aggregation of solitary apid bees [Melitoma marginella (Cresson), Ancyloscelis apiformis (F.), and Centris analis (F.)] in Chiapas, Mxico. The former two beetle species appear to be fungivores, rather than parasites or predators of the bees themselves. Descriptions are given of the larva and pupa of V. balteatus. 
4008607|Bat predation or avoidance of fireflies, mediated through the luminescent emissions of fireflies, has frequently been mentioned anecdotally but rarely examined further. There is no tangible evidence for the occurrence of either, though bats could have had a significant influence on firefly signaling biology. A sampling for ultrasonic bat cries in 15 firefly sites of diverse ecologies, showed that bats frequently put in an appearance and occasionally, in some sites, were very active. The matter is worth pursuing a little further.
4009772|Anatheta Casey 1910 (type species Sableta (Anatheta) planulicollis Casey 1910) is confirmed to be a valid genus separate from Sableta Casey 1910 (type species Sableta (s. str.) infulata Casey 1910). Two valid species are recognized in Anatheta: A. planulicollis (Casey 1910) (transferred from Sableta), and A. surrufa (Casey 1911) (transferred from Metaxya Mulsant et Rey 1873). Metaxya erudita Casey 1911 is recognized as a junior synonym of Anatheta planulicollis (Casey 1910). Sableta (Anatheta) curata Casey 1910 is not a member of Anatheta and is close to Acrotona Thomson 1859. Canastota Casey 1910 (type species Sableta (Canastota) canadensis Casey 1910), believed by Seevers (1978) to be very similar to Anatheta, is placed in synonymy with Silusida Casey 1906; Sableta (Canastota) canadensis Casey 1910 is placed in synonymy with Silusida marginella (Casey 1906). Lectotypes are designated for Metaxya erudita Casey 1911, Metaxya surrufa Casey 1911, Bolitochara marginella Casey 1893 and Sableta canadensis Casey 1910. Redescriptions and illustrations of distinctive structural features are provided for distinguishing Anatheta from other aleocharine genera and for recognizing the two valid species in the genus.
4010072|Cicindela cursitans LeConte is a small, flightless tiger beetle with a widely scattered distribution in the Great Plains, the Ohio Valley, and the north-central Gulf Coast region. Many aspects of the life history of C. cursitans are poorly known, and the larval stages have remained undescribed until now. We designed experiments to determine specific habitat preference, female oviposition preference, and daily activity cycles of the adults. In addition, we describe the entire pre-adult life history. Adults are most numerous on moist clay soils with sparse to patchy vegetation, but they may also occur in tall-grass prairies. Females oviposit strictly in moist soils consisting of fine particles. Adults are both diurnal and crepuscular, and presumably spend the nighttime hours hiding among vegetation. Larvae occur in the same habitats as the adults and are typically clustered near the bases of plants. The larvae are the smallest of any tiger beetle species described in North America (body length of first instars = 2.6-3.2 mm, second instars = 5.4-6.7 mm, third instars = 8.4-10.1 mm) and most similar in morphology to Cicindela debilis Bates. Knowledge of the life history and habitats used by this species will allow a better understanding of its distribution and abundance, and its association with prairie habitats. This information as well as low dispersal rates may make this species useful for assessment of habitat quality and restoration success.
4000079|The species of Colaspis that occur in Louisiana were studied. Colaspis louisianae Blake, not C. brunnea (F.) as has been previously thought, is the most common species on field crops in the state. Geographic and seasonal distribution and some host information are given for these 2 species as well as for C. costipennis Crotch, C. crinicornis chittendeni Blake, C. favosa Say, C. flavocostata Schaeffer, C. lata Schaeffer, C. pini Barber, and C. recurva Blake.
40389473|The morphology and histology of the alimentary canal of the Chinese white pine beetle, Dendroctonus armandi Tsai and Li, were studied by means of light and electron microscopy. The general bauplan is described and illustrated in detail. Although many structures are found to be similar to those reported for other Dendroctonus Erichson species, some differences are apparent, such as the peritrophic membrane surrounding the food bolus, the absence of fine spines on the hindgut cuticle, and the presence of specialized proventricular plates.
4009409|Donacia fukiensis Goecke is removed from synonymy of Donacia clavareaui Jacobson. Distributional records of the two species are revised accordingly. A key is provided for identification of adults of the two species and two other closely related species from China.
40983313|Four main phenotypes of Propylea japonica (Thunberg) occur in Wuhan, China: ancora, dionea, feliciae, and tessellata. The occurrence of these phenotypes in broad bean, wheat, and corn was investigated. Body size, prey capacity, and starvation resistance were assessed for their relatedness to the different phenotypes. Individuals of ancora were dominant in the three crops and abundance of feliciae and tessellata was low. In various crops, the body length of feliciae adults was found to be larger than that of tessellata, and body width of ancora females was larger than that of tessellata females. Males of ancora consumed more Aphis craccivora Koch (about 45 per day) than males of feliciae. There were, however, no significant differences in starvation resistance among the four phenotypes. Our results demonstrated that the most abundant phenotype, ancora, had some advantages in terms of body width and voracity, while the less dominant phenotypes (feliciae and tessellata) were, respectively, less voracious and of smaller size. This indicates that body size and prey capacity may relate to the variable phenotype abundance occurring in crop environments.
4010012| Species in the genus Onycholabis Bates are briefly reviewed and a new species from western Yunnan Province, China is described: Onycholabis stenothorax new species (Type locality: Yunnan, Tengchong, Qushi, Xiangyang Bridge, 251238.4N/983449.4E, 1,515 m). Nomenclatural changes proposed include the following: Onycholabis vietnamicus Kasahara and Onycholabis uenoi Paik and Lafer are recognized as junior synonyms of Onycholabis sinensis Bates new synonymies; Onycholabis sinensis nakanei Kasahara is recognized as a distinct species, O. nakanei Kasahara new status; and two species, Onycholabis luzonensis Jedlika and Onycholabis macrops Louwerens are removed from Onycholabis and tentatively transferred to Notagonum Darlington-Notagonum luzonensis (Jedlika) new combination and Notagonum macrops (Louwerens) new combination. A key to adults of all six known species of Onycholabis is provided. 
3999521|Five hundred eighty ground beetles, representing 19 species, were collected from tree stumps in November at St. Redempteur, Quebec.
4009125|Males of both Omaspides bistriata Boheman and O. convexicollis Spaeth court females during rather than before copulation. Details of this behavior differ between the two species. Copulation may thus have another function in addition to sperm transfer. The species with the more elaborate sexual behavior, O. convexicollis, has a longer and more complex spermathecal duct. Females of O. convexicollis were encountered in the field guarding groups of eggs, larvae and pupae. In the laboratory these females resisted attempts by males to copulate.
3999639|Following type examinations, Platypus parallelus (Fab.) is established as the correct name for the species previously going under the names P. rugulosus Chapuis and P. linearis Stephens (New Synonymy). This species is economically important in the tropical forests of Mexico, Central and South America, and Africa.
4008422|Each of the seven Nearctic species of Pseudanthonomus is described and illustrated and a key to the species is presented. One new species, P. dietzi (Arizona, Colorado, and Utah, as well as Durango, Mexico), is described. Anthonomus helvolus Boheman is transferred to Pseudanthonomus as P. helvolus (Boheman), new combination. New synonymies are P. validus Dietz (=P. facetus Dietz); P. helvolus (Boheman) (=P. incipiens Dietz, =P. relictus Dietz, =P. hamamelidis Pierce); P. crataegi (Walsh) (=P. longulus Dietz, =P. brunneus Dietz, =P. parvulus Dietz, =P. puncticollis Blatchley); and P. tomentosulus Dietz (=P. krameriae Pierce). Lectotypes are designated for P. validus Dietz, P. rufulus Dietz, P. incipiens Dietz, P. hamamelidis Pierce, P. longulus Dietz, and P. krameriae Pierce.
3999601| Hyphantus quadridens, a new species of flightless weevil, is described from the So Paulo region of Brazil. 
4009255| In his treatment of the Pacific Northwest Cardiophorinae (Elateridae), Horace P. Lanchester described 45 species of Cardiophorus Eschscholtz and one Horistonotus Candze. Since most of the species were described from specimens in Lanchester's personal collection, he retained the great majority of secondary types. In March of 1995, the Lanchester Collection was donated to the M. T. James Entomological Collection at Washington State University. This paper delineates and clarifies the collection locality information of paratype material of 45 species which is now housed in the James Collection. 
4008977| A new species of Cotinis Burmeister from central Mexico, C. pokornyi Deloya, is described and illustrated. A key is provided to the 16 known species of the genus found in Mexico, including the subgenera Cotinis, Criniflava Goodrich and Liberocera Deloya and Ratcliffe. /// Se describe e ilustra a C. pokornyi Deloya, n. sp., procedente del centro de Mxico. Se incluye una clave para separar las 16 especies conocidas del gnero, incluyendo los subgneros Cotinis Burmeister, Criniflava Goodrich y Liberocera Deloya and Ratcliffe que habitan en Mxico. 
4009538| In the genus Agra, the virgata group is a circum-Amazonian-Middle American lineage, consists of 10 highly characteristic species that have a composite range extending from the tropics of Mxico to Bolivia, east as far as the Brazilian State of Gois. The majority of species are found on the periphery of the Amazon Basin, the rest in Middle America. Members of the virgata group and some brentid beetles (e.g., Arrhenodes gnatho (Licht.)) have similar bright and contrasting colors and elytral pattern and are sometimes found together. No connection or interaction between these two is known at present that could explain this similarity. Agra mime, new species, is described and attributed to the virgata group. The type locality is: Ecuador: Napo Province, 20 km east of Puerto Napo, Alinahui, 450 m, 0100S, 07725W. A revised key and checklist of the virgata group species are provided. A map of all known localities for the 10 species in the group is provided. A general discussion is included of the new species, as well as biogeographical notes for 6 additional species for which new locality records were found (Agra vate, A. nola, A. virgata, A. chocha, A. phainops, A. imaginis). The ohausi group, a southeastern Brazil lineage, consists of 4 species. Here I report a new synonymy for A. ohausi Liebke (= Agra rugipunctata Straneo, n. syn.). 
4009518|Biodontocnema brunnea, a new genus and new species of flea beetle (Chrysomelidae: Alticinae) from South Africa is described. This new genus is close to Chaetocnema Stephens, 1831 but it is easily distinguishable mainly by the bidentate apex of its external, dorsal margin of hind tibiae (unidentate in Chaetocnema). Line drawings of male and female genitalia, and SEM photographs of particular morphological aspects of B. brunnea are provided.
4008212| Chromosome formulae of 426 species, representing 91 genera and 37 tribes of the suborder Adephaga, and a bibliography, complete as far as known, are presented. Male diploid number varies from 2n = 8 to 2n = 69, with 2n = 37 the most frequent (123 species). The XO (): XX () sex-determining mechanism is the most frequent (226 species) and the XY:XX is found in 179 species. 
4008568|An infestation by Oncideres pustulatus in Casuarina glauca in Cameron Co., Texas, is reported. Normally O. pustulatus infests woody leguminous hosts; C. glauca is only the second non-legume host known.
41316643|The southern South American genus Hoplopygothrix Schrhoff is augmented with the description of a new species from Bolivia. The genus now contains two species, Hoplopygothrix atropurpurea (Schaum) and Hoplopygothrix boliviensis Ratcliffe, new species. Illustrations accompany the description, and a key is provided to identify the species.
4009721| The larva of third instar and pupa of Ceratocanthus relucens (Bates) obtained near Xalapa, Veracruz, Mxico, are described. Drawings of diagnostic structures, a brief key to the known third instar larvae of American Ceratocanthinae, and comparative comments with immature stages of Germarostes aphodioides (Illiger) from United States and G. macleayi (Perty) from Brazil, are included. /// Se describen la larva de tercer estadio y la pupa de Ceratocanthus relucens (Bates) con ejemplares recolectados en las cercanias de Xalapa, Veracruz, Mxico. Se incluyen ilustraciones de las estructuras diagnsticas, una clave breve para separar las larvas de tercer estadio hasta ahora conocidas de los Ceratocanthinae americanos, y comentarios comparativos con los estados inmaduros de Germarostes aphodioides (Illiger) de los Estados Unidos y de G. macleayi (Perty) de Brasil. 
4009892|A leaf litter flea beetle was collected for the first time in North America as a result of the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. This flea beetle is identified as Psylliodes appalachianus new species and is described and illustrated. The history of leaf litter collecting of flea beetles is briefly outlined.
4009590| Three endogean carabids from Portugal, Typhlocharis sarrius, new species, Geocharis boieiroi, new species and Geocharis moscatelus, new species are described. The work provides diagnostic characters and descriptions of these new species. A key for the identification of the species of the genera Typhlocharis and Geocharis occurring in Portugal is given also. /// Neste trabalho so descritas trs espcies de colepteros carabdeos endgenos, Typhlocharis sarrius, espcie nova, Geocharis boieiroi, espcie nova, e Geocharis moscatelus, espcie nova de Portugal. Este estudo faculta ainda as principais caractersticas para diagnosticar as trs espcies, a descrio das novas espcies e chaves de identificao das espcies destes gneros que ocorrem em Portugal. 
4008379| A lectotype is designated and a description and illustrations of the Brazilian weevil, Anthonomus biplagiatus Redtenbacher, are presented. Larvae of the species develop in the flower buds and fruits of plants in the genus Kielmeyera (Guttiferae). Adult females oviposit through the apex of the calyx of the flower buds. Larvae feed on the developing stamens and ovaries; pupation occurs in a cavity formed by feeding activity. In fruits, larvae feed on the seeds and pupate in a feeding cavity. Larvae of Arcivena kielmeyerae Gagn (Cecidomyiidae) frequently occur in infested flower buds along with the larvae of A. biplagiatus. Asymmetric competition between these insects appears to be important in allowing them to coexist in flower buds of Kielmeyera. 
27571075|Several nomenclatural and bibliographic issues relating to Cerambycidae are discussed. Authorship of Parandra is attributed to Olivier (1803: 100) and the type species of the genus is Attelabus glaber DeGeer 1774 by monotypy. This implies several nomenclatural changes in the current classification of the New World Parandrini. Parandra laevis Latreille 1804 is an unnecessary replacement name for Parandra glaber (DeGeer 1774) and so a junior objective synonym of that species. Using the reversal of precedence application, Isocerus Illiger 1801 is considered a nomen oblitum and Neandra Lameere, 1912 a nomen protectum; similarly Trestonia Rafinesque 1815 is regarded as a nomen oblitum and Trestonia Buquet, 1859 a nomen protectum. Acanthocinus Schnherr 1817 is regarded as a nomen nudum. The type species of the following genera are discussed: Acanthoderes Audinet-Serville 1835 (Cerambyx daviesii Swederus, 1787); Anaglyptus Mulsant 1839 (Leptura mystica Linnaeus, 1758); Graphisurus Kirby 1837 (Cerambyx fasciatus DeGeer, 1775); Saperda Fabricius, 1775 (Cerambyx carcharias Linnaeus, 1758); Sternidius LeConte 1873 (Lamia alpha Say, 1827); Tmesisternus Latreille 1829 (Tmesisternus bizonulatus Gurin-Mneville 1831); and Tragocerus Latreille 1829 (Prionus bidentatus Donovan, 1805). In order to maintain nomenclatural stability, an application to the Commission should be submitted to reject the first valid type species designations of the following genera: Callichroma Latreille 1816 (Cerambyx moschatus Linnaeus, 1758); Cerasphorus Audinet-Serville 1834 (Stenocorus garganicus Fabricius, 1775); Dorcadion Dalman, 1817 (Cerambyx fuliginator Linnaeus, 1758); and Molorchus Fabricius 1793 (Necydalis umbellatorum Schreber, 1759). Liopinus Linsley and Chemsak 1995 is a junior objective synonym of Sternidius LeConte 1873 (new synonymy) and Urographis a junior objective synonym of Graphisurus. Authorship of Allocerus is attributed to Lacordaire (1830: 173) and Tropidosoma Perty 1832 becomes a junior objective synonym of Allocerus Lacordaire 1830 (new synonymy). Authorship of the genus Anacolus is to be attributed to Berthold (1827: 395), not Latreille (1825). Authorship of the cerambycid genus-group taxa first validated in Lacordaire (1830) are to be attributed to Lacordaire. The dates of publication of the following works, all relevant to Cerambycidae, are discussed: Fabricius' Entomologia systematica volume 1, part 2 (1793, not 1792); Lacordaire's Histoire naturelle des insectes, volume 8 (1868, not 1869); Thomson's Essai d'une classification de la famille des crambycides (1860-1861, not 1860); and Thomson's Systema cerambycidarum (1864-1865, not 1864, 1865 or 1866).
4009806| Cholomus luteopictus Vquez and Anderson, new species, is described from Panama and Costa Rica (type locality, Panama, Chiriqui Province, Reserva La Fortuna). Cholomus luteopictus can be distinguished from C. panamensis Vaurie, the only other known Central American species, by its more elongate body form, its more prominent and ventrally directed male mesosternal process, and, the distinct pattern of scales on the elytra. 
4009744|Tinotus refusus, new species, is described based on specimens collected from refuse piles of Atta ants from San Luis Potosi, Mexico. This is the second recorded instance of Tinotus collected from Atta refuse piles and likely represents a species specific to this habitat. An annotated world catalog of Tinotus is also presented with lectotype designations for T. binarius Casey, T. brunneus Casey, T. carnivorus (Cameron), T. castaneus Cameron, T. caviceps Casey, T. cavicollis Sharp, T. coelebs Casey, T. densissimus Bernhauer, T. densiventris Casey, T. flavescens Sharp, T. fusinus Casey, T. imbricatus Casey, T. indicus Cameron, T. kashmiricus Cameron, T. pallidus Casey, T. paratus Casey, T. parvicornis Casey, T. pectinellus Casey, T. rufipennis Cameron, T. texanus Casey, and T. trisectus Casey. Tinotus is transferred from the Hoplandriini to the Aleocharini based on numerous shared characters that likely represent synapomorphies for the Aleocharini.
4009928|Oryctoantiquus borealis Ratcliffe and Smith is described as a new genus and new species of fossil dynastine Scarabaeidae from West Branch Creek of the Middle Eocene Clarno Formation (44.6-46.8 Ma) of north-central Oregon, U.S.A. This specimen is the oldest specimen attributable to the subfamily Dynastinae and the largest fossil in the family Scarabaeidae.
4000147|A new genus and species of apterous, glabrous, saltatorial anthribid weevil, Apteroxenus globulosus is described and illustrated from Hardwar Gap, Jamaica. It is a member of the subfamily Choraginae, tribe Choragini, and appears closest to Euxenus LeConte.
4009400| A new species of Calathus Bonelli, C. atitari, is described from the Rif Mountains (Morocco). The type locality is: Telassemtane Wood, Bab Taza (Chefchauen). Among Moroccan Calathus, C.atitari is close to C. opacus Lucas considering that both share small pubescence in antennomere 3, rectangular pronotal hind angles and internal sac of penis armed with a tooth. On the other hand, C. atitari is differentiated from C. opacus by the slightly sinuated sides of pronotum and the structure of penis, with apex clearly curved downwards. The species was found under stones in a wood of Abies maroccana Trabut. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Calathus, C. atitari, de las Montaas del Rif (Marruecos). La localidad tpica es: Bosque de Telassemtane, Bab Taza (Xauen). Entre los Calathus marroques, C. atitari es prximo a C. opacus Lucas porque ambos tienen pubescencia diminuta en el antenmero 3, los ngulos posteriores del pronoto rectangulares y el saco interno del pene armado con un diente. Por otro lado, C. atitari se diferencia de C. opacus por los lados del pronoto ligeramente sinuados y por la estructura del pene, con el pice claramente recurvado ventralmente. La especie apareci bajo piedras en un bosque de Abies maroccana Trabut. 
4009133|Four new species of Metophthalmus Wollaston, M. columbusi, M. schusteri, M. trilineatus and M. rectangulatus, from the West Indies are described and illustrated. A key to these and two previously described species, M. iviei Andrews and M. muchmorei Andrews, is provided.
4009098|Sexually unreceptive females of Tropisternus ellipticus LeConte, courted by males that were mounted on them dorsally, vigorously shook from side to side and sounded a buzz until released. After the initial courtship, females shook and buzzed at the sight of the male or as he buzzed during his approach to her. In successive attempts males tended to court less time, and finally would buzz at the sight of the female, approach her as she began to buzz and shake, and then swim away instead of mount. These observations substantiate that the buzz of female T. ellipticus functions as a rejection signal. The tendency to avoid a female signaling rejection or to cease courting after a few seconds persisted in observed males in the absence of female contact for up to 39 min. Avoidance of a female by a sexually responsive male is a new response acquired only after repeated female rejection and does not result from fatigue. Extinction of male avoidance behavior occurred abruptly. Afterwards males courted as long again as in the initial courtship. Male avoidance of a female signaling rejection results from conditioned or associative learning as a result of repeated contact with shaking, buzzing, and striking with forelegs by females during male courting. The conditioned response depends on short term memory, and extinguishes completely within 20-40 minutes if not reinforced.
4009183| The Mexican species of Golofa Hope are reviewed based on the examination of 610 specimens. Golofa tepaneneca, new species, from the State of Puebla, and G. xiximeca, new species, from the States of Sinaloa and Nayarit are described as new. The structures of mesotibiae, accessories on the internal sac of the male aedeagus, female genital plates, stridulatory files on prepygidia of both sexes, and male morphometry are used for the first time in the taxonomy of the genus. Precise ecological and geographical distributions are adopted as important criteria for the separation of the eigth Mexican species. The third-stage larvae and pupae of G. pizarro Hope and G. pusilla Arrow, and third-stage larva of G. tersander Burmeister are described, and brief biological observations are provided for each species. Illustrations of diagnostic structures are included. Separation of the subgenera Golofa and Mixigenus Thomson is supported by a number of morphological characters of adults and larvae, and ecological distribution. Brief comments about dispersal patterns of the genus in Mexico, a key to the male and female adults of Mexican species, and a key to third-stage larvae of the five species for which they are known are also presented. /// Mediante el exmen de 610 ejemplares se revisan las especies mexicanas de Golofa Hope, describiendo a G. tepaneneca, sp. n., de las montaas secas del estado de Puebla y a G. xiximeca, sp. n., de las montaas hmedas de Sinaloa y Nayarit. Adems de los caracteres convencionales, se utilizan por vez primera en la taxonoma del gnero: la estructura de las mesotibias, los accesorios del saco interno del edeago, las placas genitales femeninas, las franjas estriduladoras del prepigidio de los dos sexos y algunos elementos morfomtricos masculinos. La distribucin ecolgica y geogrfica se adopta como un elemento importante para la separacin de las ocho especies mexicanas. Se describen las larvas de tercer estado y las pupas de G. pizarro Hope y G. pusilla Arrow, as como la larva de tercer estado de G. tersander Burmeister, incluyendo algunas observaciones sobre su biologa. Se presentan ilustraciones de las estructuras con valor diagnstico. Se apoya la separacin de los subgneros Golofa y Mixigenus Thomson, con base en un gran nmero de caracteres morfolgicos de los adultos y las larvas y sus preferencias ecolgicas; y se comentan brevemente los patrones de dispersin del gnero en Mxico. Se incluyen una clave para la identificacin de los adultos machos y hembras de las especies mexicanas y una clave para las larvas de tercer estado de cinco especies de Golofa. 
4008727| The final instar larva of Christensenia antarctica Brinck from les Crozet is described for the first time. Additional information on the larvae of Canonopsis sericea C. O. Waterhouse and Ectemnorhinus grisescens Enderlein from Heard Island is also provided. Contrary to previous studies, E. grisescens has sclerotized labral tormae and 2 + 8 pronotal setae. A preliminary phylogeny of the tribe is provided based on a cladistic analysis of 10 larval characters. 
4009106| A new species of Platydema Laporte and Brull, P. xanthostigmatum from Peru, is described and compared to other Western Hemisphere species with frontal horns in the male. Platydema hondurense Champion is reduced to a synonym of P. erythrocerum Laporte and Brull and P. rodriguezi Champion is reduced to a synonym of P. undatum Chevrolat. A lectotype is designated for P. undatum. Distribution of those species and P. erotyloides Chevrolat is discussed. 
4008388|The South American genus Cryptogenius is placed in the Hybosoridae based on new morphological evidence. The genus was traditionally placed in the Trogidae.
41413640|Melathra huyenae Franz, new genus and new species, is described to accommodate an enigmatic species of entimine weevil (Coleoptera: Curculionidae: Entiminae) from southwestern Hispaniola. The new genus is closely related to Apotomoderes Dejean and therefore placed in the tribe Geonemini Gistel, but is distinguished by the following unique suite of features: labial palps 2-segmented; post-epistomal region not depressed; scrobe passing over eye; profemur with a small cuticular tooth; metatibial apex simple; elytral humeri not well-defined; wings reduced; female sternum VIII elliptical; spermatheca with corpus swollen; and aedeagus with groups of setae present in dorsal subapical region, flagellum sclerotized, and with paired anterior, narrowly plicate sclerites. The single constituent species M. huyenae is characterized by a uniformly grey-silver to brown scale coverage which is most conspicuously interrupted by two anteromesally positioned rusty brown spots on the elytra. Melathra huyenae is apparently narrowly endemic to the coastal dry forest habitat of the Jaragua National Park. The host plant associations remain unknown.
4000119|The occurrence of slime mold spore feeding by beetles is discussed, and accumulated host records for about 35 beetle species (mostly North American) are presented, along with data compiled from the literature. Also discussed are: the nature of the myxomycete fruiting body as a food source, the distribution of this habit within the Coleoptera, larval feeding mechanisms, and possible host preference.
3999665|A key is given for the separation of Neochetina bruchi, N. eichhorniae, N. affinis, and N. n. sp. The major distinguishing characters and the characters for separating the sexes of each species are given, with illustrations. Information is included on the eggs, larvae, and pupae and on oviposition, host range, and behavior of adults.
4010069|The firefly Microphotus octarthrus occurs allopatricallly throughout pinyon-oak and juniperoak habitats of the deserts of southwestern US. Adult dispersal is limited thus individuals are likely to be genetically isolated by geographic distances. However, during the Pleistocene, habitats may have been contiguous allowing for greater dispersal and genetic continuity. In this study we investigated the patterns of mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I haplotypes among disjunct populations of M. octarthrus to determine whether current populations were historically contiguous. A total of 26 mtDNA COI haplotypes was found for 28 individuals from six populations spanning the beetle's range. Cladistic analysis of individuals resulted in 15,500 equally parsimonious trees. Strict consensus of these trees was mostly resolved except for a few individuals within well supported clades. Individuals from the same population were monophyletic and genetic isolation by distance was observed. Mean branch lengths for the clades of individuals from Texas, western New Mexico, and northern New Mexico were 4.4%, 1.6%, and 5.0%, respectively. Given an average sequence divergence of 2.3% per million years, isolation of these groups coincided with the beginning and middle of the Pleistocene. Thus, populations of M. octarthrus and their habitat were likely disjunct throughout the Pleistocene and the dispersal of these beetles was limited. In addition, branch length values were similar to values observed among the other Microphotus species. This suggests the possibility of cryptic species, however limited life history data renders recognition of new species difficult. Pre-mating barriers such as female advertising posture, male approach, and coupling time would further support the isolation of these populations and recognition of new species.
4009539|Polycesta plana Nelson, new species, is described from two females found in the mountains of Baja California Sur. It is figured and compared to other species presented in the key by Barr (1949).
40389475|Macrodactylus howdeni, new species, from pine-oak forest at 2,600 m elevation near Toluca, state of Mxico, and Macrodactylus noveloi, new species, from cloud forest at 1,050 m elevation in the state of Michoacn and oak forests at 780-1,160 m elevation in the state of Nayarit, Mexico are described. Illustrations of diagnostic characters and comparative comments with similar species are included. New records are provided for Macrodactylus submarginatus Bates for the state of Michoacn, Macrodactylus pokornyanus Arce-Prez and Morn for the state of Mxico, and Macrodactylus longicollis (Latreille) for the state of Oaxaca. With these additions, 27 species of Macrodactylus Dejean are recorded from Mexico. /// Se describen Macrodactylus howdeni nueva especie, con ejemplares colectados en bosque de pino y encino situado a 2,600 m de altitud en las cercanas de Toluca, estado de Mxico y Macrodactylus noveloi nueva especie, con ejemplares colectados en bosque mesfilo de montaa situado a 1,050 m de altitud en el estado de Michoacn, y en bosques de encino ubicados a 780-1,160 m de altitud en el estado de Nayarit, Mxico. Se incluyen ilustraciones de los caracteres diagnsticos y comentarios comparativos con las especies afines. Se comentan nuevos registros para Macrodactylus submarginatus Bates, en el estado de Michoacn, para Macrodactylus pokornyanus Arce-Prez y Morn en el estado de Mxico, y para Macrodactylus longicollis (Latreille) en el estado de Oaxaca. Con estas adiciones, se renen registros para 27 especies de Macrodactylus Dejean en Mxico.
4008998| Arthropod remains were identified from eleven packrat (Neotoma) midden samples in a 9,970 yr Holocene series from the Sierra Bacha south of Puerto Libertad, Sonora, Mexico, in the Central Gulf Coast subdivision of the Sonoran Desert. A total of 2,208 specimens represented 82 taxa in 54 identified genera and 37 identified species. Although distributions of desert arthropods are poorly known in Sonora, most of the midden taxa likely still occur in the study area today. Range extensions of species, including several thought to have been endemic to Arizona, to the coast of the Gulf of California indicate that many Sonoran Desert insects range from Arizona south into Sonora and Baja California. The Holocene arthropod fauna of the Sierra Bacha appears to have been more stable than the flora with no obvious local extirpations or changes in community structure. Differences in numbers of specimens and taxa of arthropods and plants in the assemblages primarily reflect taphonomic processes, and not changes in abundance or diversity. /// En la regin de la Sierra Bacha, ubicada en la subdivisin del Desierto Sonorense Costa Central del Golfo, al sur de Puerto Libertad, Sonora, Mxico, se identificaron restos de artrpodos de once depositos duros ("middens") de Neotoma (rata de campo o tori) Holocenos ("modernas" hasta 9,970 aos antes del presente). Fueron identificados un total de 2,208 especmenes en 82 taxones, incluyendo 54 gneros identificados y 37 especies identificados. A pesar de que el conocimiento de la distribucin de artrpodos desrticos en Sonora es muy limitado, la mayor parte de los taxones de los depositos duros de Neotoma probablemente aparecen en el rea. Las extensiones territoriales de algunos taxones, incluyendo varias especies endmicas del estado de Arizona, hasta el Golfo de California, sugieren que una fauna bsica de artrpodos del Desierto Sonorense se extiende desde Arizona hasta el sur de Sonora y Baja California. La fauna de artrpodos de la Sierra Bacha parece haber estado ms estable que la flora, sin extirpaciones o cambios obvios en la estructura de la comunidad. Las diferencias en los nmeros de especmenes y taxones de artrpodos y plantas en los ensamblajes, se deben principalmente a diferencias en los procesos tafonmicos y no a cambios de abundancia o diversidad. 
4009961|Host plant associations are given for the adults of 44 species of melolonthine scarabs in the genera Diplotaxis Kirby, Serica MacLeay and Phyllophaga Harris.
4008459|Two new species from North America, Heterocerus unicus (western) and H. subtilis (eastern), are described and illustrated, and their affinities to other members of the undatus group of heterocerids are presented. An identification key is provided plus distribution maps for all related species.
4008746|Agrilus turnbowi Nelson, n. sp., is described from a series reared from dead mistletoe, Phoradendron tomentosum, attached to live Prosopis glandulosa in San Antonio, Texas.
4008130| The genus Parathyreus Howden and Martnez contains four previously described species: bahiae (Arrow) from Brazil and Paraguay, fissicollis (Arrow) from Brazil, fulvescens (Blanchard) from Bolivia, and trituberculatus (Klug) from Brazil; two new species, lobatus from Brazil, and rectus from Brazil and Paraguay, are now included. All six species are here described and illustrated and a key to the species is included. 
4009397| A list of the species of Dytiscidae found in cattail ponds of northeastern Ontario, Canada is provided. A total of 1,890 specimens representing 47 species (17 genera) was collected among which 32 species are considered common elements in that freshwater habitat. Local assemblages were dominated, in descending order, by Hygrotus sayi Balfour-Browne, Agabus anthracinus Mannerheim, Hygrotus picatus (Kirby), Ilybius biguttulus (Germar), Liodessus affinis (Say), Rhantus binotatus (Harris), and Desmopachria convexa (Aub). Laccophilus proximus Say is reported for the first time north of the Canada-U.S.A. border and its presence in northeastern Ontario is deemed to represent an extended northern distribution. 
4007892|Lectotypes are designated for several species of North American Endomychidae and their synonyms. Neotypes are designated for Alexia ulkei Crotch and A. minor Crotch. Symbiotes duryi Walton and S. montanus Casey are newly placed in synonymy with S. gibberosus (Lucas).
4008065| The alate, flashing lampyrid genus Bicellonycha, previously known from the American tropics, occurs along certain waterways in South Central and South Eastern Arizona at elevations of 4,000-6,000. One new species and one new subspecies are recognized in this paper with descriptions of the male, female, last instar larva, and female pupa of B. w. wickershamorum, and the male and female of B. wickershamorum piceum. The genus is interpolated into existing keys which presently hold Photuris as the only United States member of Photurinae. 
4008917|Cantharidae and Malachiidae are represented in the beetle fauna of the Galapagos Islands by one species apiece. The cantharid Caccodes oceaniae (Bourgeois) is widely distributed on Pacific islands and is reported from the Galapagos for the first time. The Galapagos record of the cantharid Chauliognathus sulphureus Waterhouse is judged to be an error in labelling and this species should be removed from listings of Galapagos beetles. The malachiid is the endemic Ablechrus flavipes Waterhouse, previously reported only from material collected by Charles Darwin in 1835.
4009271|Thalpius rufulus (LeConte) is documented from Oregon for the first time. All specimens were found along the shores of an alkaline lake. Adults of 31 other carabid species were collected in the same microhabitat. Collecting records suggest the primary habitat of T. rufulus is along the margins of alkaline/ saline bodies of water, including tidal marshes.
4000108|Species of the genus Diglotta are not constant in number of tarsomeres. The two California species have a tarsal formula of 4, 4, 5. The two European species have a tarsal formula of 4, 4, 4. D. legneri, new species, is described from California and Baja California Norte, Mexico. New locality records are listed for D. pacifica.
4000154|Predation on tadpoles by adult Cybister fimbriolatus was confirmed by field observation. In laboratory testing, adults and larvae devoured larger tadpoles of Rana berlandieri at the rates of 0.052 and 0.203 tp/da, respectively; predation rates by adult beetles were much higher on smaller tadpoles. Adults of Hydrophilus triangularis were not observed to prey on tadpoles under laboratory conditions, but larvae were observed to consume tadpoles of Scaphiopus couchi in the field and of both anuran species in captivity.
4009904|Phratora daccordii Ge and Wang new species and P. jinchuanensis Ge and Wang new species from Sichuan province, south-west China (Chrysomelidae: Chrysomelinae) are described. The distinctive characters of these new species in relation to others are discussed. Phratora daccordi resembles P. moha Daccordi most closely but is distinguished by the morphology of the antennae, the shape of lateral margins of pronotum, median lobe and spermatheca. Phratora jinchuanensis is allied to P. vulgitissima (Linnaeus), differing in the marginal bead along the pronotal base, median lobe morphology and bristles of the antennae. Illustrations of the habitus of P. daccordi, and median lobes and spermathecae of the new species are included. Type specimens are deposited in the Zoological Museum, Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China.
4010060|A key to the species of the Curculio dentipes (Roelofs) group of the Curculio from China with descriptions of the following new species: Curculio canosquama new species, Curculio dhilloni new species, Curculio octomaculata new species, Curculio unimaculata new species. Short diagnoses of previously described taxa are included: Curculio bidens (Heller), Curculio davidi (Fairmaire), Curculio dentipes (Roelofs), Curculio imperalis (Heller) and Curculio kiangsuicus (Heller).
4007935|Continuous aposematic displays can attract the attention of naive or unrepulsable predators to individuals that would otherwise escape notice. In some cases, they may also be metabolically expensive to produce. Warnings emitted when the likelihood of encountering and discouraging predators is high minimizes these disadvantages. Bioluminescence in juvenile Coleoptera may be a warning signal ("coloration") whose presence and intensity is under larval control. Light organ locations and the conditions that elicit glows suggest that luminescence is directed at interspecific receivers and that emission and risk are correlated. The perception by a larva of another facultative aposematic display increases the probability that an undetected predator is nearby. This may account for numerous observations of lampyrid larvae glowing in response to the lights of other larvae and adults. There are several intraspecific contexts for larval luminescence. Self-illumination could explain the correlation of two uncommon phenomena, red lights and luminous organs on the head. Glows have been proposed to be spacing or aggregation signals. The timing and social context of luminescence is, in many cases, inconsistent with such an interpretation.
4000029|The monotypic genus Uloporus Casey is concluded to belong within the family unit Archeocrypticidae, based on adult morphology. Distribution of U. ovalis Casey is extended northward to Kentucky and southward to Panama. A checklist of the New World archeocrypticids, a brief taxonomic history, and illustrations of significant characters are provided.
4008027|The larva of Calybe (Ega) sallei (Chevrolat) shares derived character states with the Odacanthini, Pentagonicini, and Lebiini, supporting removal of Calybe Laporte from the Pterostichini s.l. Characters of the female internal reproductive tract are illustrated. Species of Calybe, Lachnophorus Dejean, Anchonoderus Reiche, Euphorticus Horn, and Eucaerus LeConte share a number of derived character states of spermathecal configuration. These synapomorphies are discussed in relation to the data provided by the larva of C. sallei.
4008104|Anisotoma panicula, new species, is described from Oaxaca, Mexico and placed in the scopula subgroup (discolor-scopula group) based on synapomorphic characters of the male metasternal fovea and aedeagus. Discovery of the species extends the known southern limits of the subgroup, and is consistent with a western montane distribution for the lineage within Mexico. A modified key, habitus drawing, and illustrations of male genitalia are included.
40983306|Third instars of Macrodactylus mexicanus Burmeister, Macrodactylus nigripes Bates, and Macrodactylus ocreatus Bates are described from specimens collected from soil in corn fields at Chignahuapan, Puebla and La Malinche, Tlaxcala, and from soil in an amaranth grain field at Zapotitln Salinas, Puebla. Illustrations of diagnostic structures, comparative comments with similar species, and a key to known third instars of Macrodactylus Dejean in Mexico are included. Data on the habits and reproductive behavior of M. ocreatus in nature and in captivity are also provided. Se describen las larvas de tercer estadio de Macrodactylus mexicanus Burmeister, Macrodactylus nigripes Bates, y Macrodactylus ocreatus Bates, con ejemplares colectados en parcelas con maz en Chignahuapan, Puebla y La Malinche, Tlaxcala, y en una parcela con amaranto en Zapotitln Salinas, Puebla. Se ilustran las estructuras diagnsticas de las larvas, se comentan sus diferencias, y se incluye una clave para identificar las larvas conocidas de Macrodactylus Dejean en Mxico. Tambin se presentan datos y observaciones sobre los hbitos y el comportamiento reproductivo de M. ocreatus tanto in natura como en cautiverio.
3999715|The widespread genus Metophthalmus Wollaston is recharacterized, and the 8 North American species are keyed, described, and illustrated. Biological notes are given for the western species. M. albosignatus Fall, 1899, is placed in synonymy with M. americanus Motschulsky, 1866. M. haigi (type-locality Silverthorne, Shasta Co., California), M. kanei (type-locality Laguna Seca, Monterey Co., California), and M. sandersoni (type-locality Washington Co., Arkansas) are described as new.
4009507| Eleven species of Platycrepidius Candze (Agrypninae, Platycrepidiini) are recorded from Costa Rica, including seven previously undescribed species. Newly described species are: P. alajuelensis new species, P. bosque new species, P. costaricensis new species, P. decimnotatus new species, P. duodecimnotatus new species, P. monteverde new species, and P. tico new species. New country records for Costa Rica include P. boucardi (Sall), P. eburatus (Champion), P. grandini (Candze), and P. partitus (Champion); P. grandini is recorded from Panama for the first time. 
4009727|Adults and larvae of the loberine erotylid beetle Loberus impressus (LeConte) were found associated with fungi growing on corolla and seed capsule tissue of the blue flag iris, Iris hexagona. We examined adult beetle specimens using light and scanning electron microscopy to determine if specialized structures (mycangia) may function in transporting fungi. Two pairs of deep pits on the ventral aspect of the gena between the eyes and the maxillae of both sexes contained fungal spores and hyphae, suggesting a possible role as mycangia in addition to their role as glandular outlets. Inoculation from the surface of cleaned beetle specimens produced colonies of Cladosporium and Fusarium. These genera are widespread, usually air-dispersed conidial fungi that sometimes are associated with insects.
4009425|The species Agabus eminens Kirsch is transferred from Agabus Leach to the genus Aglymbus Sharp. A lectotype is designated for the species and a full description and illustrations of the specimen are provided.
4009973|Lepechinia caulescens (Ortega) Epling (Lamiaceae) is reported as a new host plant for the bruchine Stator dissimilis Johnson & Kingsolver. Stator dissimilis and its host seeds are discussed and illustrated; also some ecological comparisons are made with other species in the genus Stator. Oviposition guilds in the genus Stator are briefly discussed.
3999980|The new species Sennius colima from Mexico and S. lawrencei and S. panama from Panama are described. The dorsal aspects, hind legs and male genitalia of each are figured. S. colima develops in the seeds of Cassia berlandieri; S. lawrencei in the seeds of C. reticulata; and S. panama in the seeds of C. undulata. Bruchus rufescens Motschulsky was found to be a Sennius and the senior synonym of Sennius celatus (Sharp). Five species of Sennius had no previous host plants recorded for them. These bruchids and their hosts are S. breveapicalis (Cassia densiflora, C. undulata); S. ensiculus (Cassia patellaria); S. militaris (Cassia emarginata); S. obesulus (Cassia wrightii); S. trinotaticollis (Cassia maxonii, C. oxyphylla). New host records for other species of Sennius are as follows: S. auricomus (Cassia xiphoidea); S. rufescens (Cassia leptocarpa, C. reticulata, C. tora); S. fallax (Cassia berlandieri, C. hintoni); S. guttifer (Cassia nicaraguensis); S. instabilis (Cassia biflora, C. leptocarpa, C. tora).
4008381|A new genus and new species, Gonaives buenae, are described from Haiti. This species is unusual in having widely separated antennae, but it agrees with the Galerucinae in other characters. The species is placed in the tribe Galerucini.
4543004| Larval morphology of the Desmopachria vicina Sharp species group is investigated. For this purpose, the three larval instars of Desmopachria concolor Sharp and Desmopachria punctatissima Zimmermann are described and illustrated for the first time, with an emphasis on the morphometry and chaetotaxy. Both species have the setae LA3, LA4 and LA5 inserted proximally on the prementum and the seta LA10 inserted distally on the second labial palpomere, the two larval autapomorphies that define the genus Desmopachria Babington. They are also characterized by the presence of secondary setae on the ventral surface of the siphon of third-instar larva; this character state is a synapomorphy of Desmopachria + Hyphydrus Illiger. Desmopachria concolor and D. punctatissima are very similar morphologically, suggesting that they could be closely related phylogenetically. Larvae of the D. vicina species group differ from those of the Desmopachria convexa (Aub) species group in the presence of one additional seta on the dorsal surface of the prementum, the more distal insertion of the seta LA2 on the prementum, and the absence of one of the distal pores (LAb or LAd) on the first labial palpomere. 
40664383|The Neotropical skiff beetle genus Yara Reichardt and Hinton is recorded from Venezuela for the first time, marking the first discovery of the genus since its original description in 1976. The Venezuelan species, Yara maculata Short, Joly, and Garcia, new species, is described and illustrated, bringing the total number of species in the genus to three. It is currently known from several localities along the northwestern edge of the Guiana Shield. The presence of a mat of recumbent setae on tergite IV, often considered diagnostic for the family, is found to be absent in Yara. A key to the three species is provided as well as observations on the habitat and seasonality of the new species.
4008179|Diaperis bifida, a new species from Mato Grosso, Brazil, is described. The genus Allophasia, which contained two South American species, is reduced to a synonym of Diaperis as a result of the study conducted to determine the generic placement of the new species.
4009395|Description of structures of the second and third instars of Carabdytes upin Balke, Hendrich, and Wewalka are presented, including detailed chaetotaxal and porotaxal analyses. Larvae of Carabdytes Balke, Hendrich and Wewalka are compared phylogenetically with those of other genera of the subfamily Colymbetinae. Carabdytes belongs to the tribe Colymbetini based on the synapomorphies of (i) a more distal insertion of the primary seta CO7 on procoxa, (ii) the presence of marginal basoventral spinulae on tarsal claws, and (iii) a more distad insertion of the primary pore ANg on antennomere 4. Within the Colymbetini, Carabdytes is characterized by a fewer number of natatory setae which may represent either a plesiomorphic condition or an adaptation to a creeping way of life.
3999929|Microhabitats indicate that Bledius fenyesi Bernhauer and Schubert and B. monstratus Casey are distinct species.
4009716|Bridwell (1946) used Bruchus arizonensis Schaeffer as type of the genus when he described Neltumius Bridwell in a key. Bradley (1947) transferred Bruchus gibbithorax Schaeffer and B. texanus Schaeffer into Neltumius. We describe Neltumius dospatrias Romero and Johnson, a new species from Mexico and the U.S.A. related to N. texanus. We update the distributions of the four species, list the known hosts of each species, figure the male genitalia, and key the species. Neltumius is an especially interesting genus of bruchids because its larvae feed in seeds of very different hosts, Prosopis L. (Fabaceae) and Condalia Cav. (Rhamnaceae).
40664403|Eleven species of the genus Margarinotus Marseul (Histeridae: Histerinae: Histerini) are known to occur in California. One of these, Margarinotus merdarius (Hoffmann) is adventive, and two others, Margarinotus ephemeralis Caterino, new species and Margarinotus thomomysi Caterino, new species are described here for the first time. The first of these is closely related to Margarinotus remotus (LeConte), and the second to Margarinotus fenderi Wenzel. Both of the new species are restricted to the nests of burrowing rodents, Spermophilus Cuvier and Thomomys Wied-Neuwied, respectively, and help indicate that the arthropod fauna of such niches is still inadequately documented.
4009588| When handled, adult Pseudoxycheila tarsalis Bates were observed to release a secretion from their pygidium that was distasteful to human subjects. Chemical analysis indicated that the secretion contained substituted benzene compounds that are known chemical defenses in tiger beetles. These findings support the hypothesis that P. tarsalis is aposematic and a potential Mllerian mimic of stinging mutillid wasps. 
3999404|Four new species of Malthinus and 3 new species of Malthodes from the southwest United States are described, as is the allotype male of Malthinus tricolor Fender. A revised key to the species of Malthinus of North America is included.
4009609| The following new species of Hemiphileurus are described: H. bispinosus Ratcliffe from Brazil, H. deslislesi Ratcliffe from Colombia, H. quadridentatus Ratcliffe from Guatemala, and H. warneri Ratcliffe from Mexico. The parameres of H. rugulosus Endrdi (Venezuela and Colombia) are illustrated to enable easier identification of this species, and H. kahni Dupuis and Dechambre is redescribed and recorded from Brazil for the first time. Diagnostic illustrations of the male parameres are provided for the above taxa. A checklist for all the species in the genus is given. /// Se describen las siguientes nuevas especies de Hemiphileurus: H. bispinosus Ratcliffe de Brasil, H. deslislesi Ratcliffe de Colombia, H. quadridentatus Ratcliffe de Guatemala, y H. warneri Ratcliffe de Mxico. Se ilustraron los parmeros de H. rugulosus Endrdi (Venezuela y Colombia) para facilitar la identificacin de esta especie. Hemiphileurus kahni Dupuis y Dechambre (Per) es redescrita y registrada por primera vez en Brasil. Se proveen ilustraciones diagnstico de los parmeros del macho para los taxa antes mencionados. Se incluye un listado de todas las especies del gnero. 
4009533|The Longitarsus asperifoliarum species group is reviewed. Four new species are described: L. hissaricus Lopatin, new species (Tadzhikistan), L. marguzoricus Konstantinov, new species (Tadzhikistan), L. tishechkini Konstantinov, new species (Kazakhstan), and L. violentoides Konstantinov, new species (Armenia). Longitarsus afghanicus Lopatin is elevated to species status from its former status as L. asperifoliarum afghanicus. A key to the species and diagnostic characters for the group are provided. The setation of the apical and preapical abdominal tergites of females is recognized as a novel source of characters. Host plant and distributional data are included.
4008086| Schizogenius (Listropus) whiteheadi is described from Ciudad Bolivar, Venezuela. This brings the total known members of the Neotropical subgenus Listropus to eight and documents the first record of the subgenus within the Orinoco River Basin. This species belongs to the brevicornis group of Whitehead and Reichardt and is most similar to S. xanthopus (Brull). 
4009642|Hydrocanthus (Hydrocanthus) paludimonstrus (new species) is described from specimens collected in Beni, Bolivia. Important morphological features are figured, including male and female genitalia. The character combination present in H. (H.) paludimonstrus makes the species intermediate between Hydrocanthus (Guignocanthus) Young and Hydrocanthus s. str. Based on new evidence from H. (H.) paludimonstrus and re-examination of characters previously used to diagnose the subgenera, H. (Guignocanthus) is synonymized with Hydrocanthus s. str. (new synonymy).
4009413|Hyperaspis delicata, new species (Coccinellidae), from Brazil, is described and illustrated. Brief biological information on the species is provided.
4542998|The larva of Onthophagus orpheus orpheus (Panzer) is described here for the first time. Larvae were reared from adults collected in dung baited traps from central Wisconsin. The larva will key to the current couplet of O. oklahomensis Brown, O. pennsylvanicus Harold, and O. landolti Harold in Ritcher's (1966) key to U.S. Onthophagus. It can be separated from them by the amount of setae present on the gibbosity of the 3rd abdominal segment, amount of setae and shape of setal patches on the ventral pygidium, and the size of the head capsule of the mature larva.
4008818|Corticarina milleri and C. eichlini are described as new. They are compared to the morphologically similar C. herbivagans LeConte. C. herbivigans (sensu Johnson 1972) is C. eichlini. Corticarina herbivagans is redescribed. These species are compared to other North American species. Selected LeConte types were studied. New synonomy is proposed: Corticarina cavicollis (Mannerheim) (= Corticaria laevis LeConte and Corticaria expansa LeConte).
3999751|Male and female rosechafers (Macrodactylus subspinosa syriaca Fab.) gather in what appear to be mating aggregations. Most individuals stay with the group less than 1 day. During copulation, males scrape pubescence from the females' pronota with their mandibles; mated females can thus be recognized. Unmounted males push against mounted males, and mounted males repel them by thrashing and pushing with their middle and hind legs.
4009517| Ateuchus floridensis, new species, from Florida is described and illustrated. Its relationship with A. histeroides Weber and A. lecontei (Harold) is discussed. A new key to identify species of Ateuchus occurring north of Mexico is provided. /// On dcrit et illustre la nouvelle espce, Ateuchus floridensis. On discute ses affinits avec A. histeroides Weber et A. lecontei (Harold). On prsente un nouveau tableau permettant la dtermination des 4 espces d'Ateuchus nord Amricaine. 
4009906|Host plant associations are given for the adults of 17 species of the melolonthine genera Serica MacLeay and Diplotaxis Kirby. Beetles were collected on 23 plant species. Ten species of Serica occur on Adenostoma fasciculatum, while seven species of Serica and Diplotaxis moerens LeConte occur on Eriogonum fasciculatum.
4009895| A new species, Alagoasa aurora, from high elevation Costa Rica is described. Adult habitus (dorsal and ventral), mouthparts, and male and female genitalia are illustrated. Morphometric data are presented and graphed. Alagoasa aurora bears a hind tarsomere similar to species of Asphaera, the highly vaulted habitus of Alagoasa, and the large eyes and nocturnal habits usual in Walterianella. This species also bears a mandibular mola that has never been reported before for an oedionychine flea beetle. Phylogenetic affinities and other close relatives of this species are discussed. /// Se describe una nueva especie, Alagoasa aurora. Esta especie tiene una distribucin altitudinal elevada en Costa Rica. Se presentan vistas dorsales y ventrales del adulto, como tambin de las partes bucales y la genitalia del macho y la hembra. Se presentan y grafican datos morfomtricos. Alagoasa aurora tiene un tarsomero posterior semejante al de las especies de Asphaera, adicionalmente es extremadamente abultado, presenta ojos grandes y hbitos nocturnos como Walterianella. Este especie tambien possee una mola mandibular la cual nunca se ha reportado para este grupo de saltilla pulgones. Se discuten las afinidades filogenticas de la especie. 
4009295|The new species Zabrotes sylvestris is described from the United States and Mexico. Its very close relative Z. subfasciatus (Boheman), the economic Mexican bean weevil, is redescribed. The two species differ in characters of the male and female genitalia, color of pubescence, carinae on their legs, they do not interbreed, and have distinct differences in DNA. The male and female genitalia of both species are figured and host plants of both species listed.
3999924|Stridulation in Elaphrus cupreus is audible. Sound production is brought about by movement of the plectron apparatus of the abdominal projection against that of the elytra. Alary-elytral stridulatory apparatus does not appear to be a mechanism of stridulation in E. cupreus.
4008504|The genus Byrrhinus Motschulsky is characterized and the New World species are treated taxonomically. Four species are placed in synonymy and seven new species are described, bringing the New World total to fifteen. In addition to a key, brief descriptions and distributions are given for older species and the male genitalia are figured for all species. The new taxa are Byrrhinus amoenus, B. golbachi, B. improcerus, B. maculatus, B. magnus, B. mimicus, and B. plenus.
3999850|Larvae and pupae of Serropalpus coxalis Mank were found in the sound wood of a felled hemlock, Tsuga canadensis (Pinaceae). The larvae excavate tunnels in the wood. Pupation occurs in cells in the wood close to the surface. An ichneumonid, Odontocolon canadense [Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae: Xoridinae], is a parasite of larvae. Host records of 2 other species of Serropalpus, S. barbatus and S. substriatus, are listed. Larval and pupal stages of S. coxalis are described and illustrated.
4009834|Six new taxa and a new combination of Shigizo from China, Malaysia, Philippines and Vietnam are described. New taxa include Shigizo morimotoi new species (China), Shigizo zhangi new species (China), Shigizo basofasciatus new species (Philippines), Shigizo davidi new species (Philippines), Shigizo perrinae new species (Vietnam) and Shigizo tonkinensis new species (Vietnam). Curculio obsoletus (Heller) from Brunei on the island of Borneo is combined as Shigizo obsoletus (Heller) new combination.
3999477|In a population of Nebria purpurata LeC. in the Sangre de Cristo Range, New Mexico, we observed differences in nocturnal behavior between copulating pairs and uncoupled individual adults. Copulating pairs were found on emergent rocks in a stream and were seen entering the water and swimming on the surface. Uncoupled individuals were observed only on the stream bank.
4009289|Newly discovered specimens of Costitachys inusitatus Erwin provide characters of the male, heretofore unknown, and extend the range beyond the type locality into two biogeographic regions of South America, the "North Atlantic Coast" and "Lower Amazon--Mid-Atlantic Coast." Male characters provide little additional information useful in establishing relationships of this remarkably distinctive species, although they affirm its position among the higher Tachyina.
3999985|Acmaeodera bacchariphaga, new species, is described from northwestern Baja California, Mexico and San Diego County, California, and its biology, habitat, and variability are discussed. The relationship of this species to others in the genus is considered in detail, with particular reference to Fall's (1899) group "Lobatae" which is recharacterized.
4009040|Habitat preferences among forest stand types ranging from clearcuts to stands in excess of 100 years, but not virgin, and seasonal activity from May to August 1992, of 17 species of Carabidae collected in pitfall traps in the Appalachian region of western Maryland are reported. Five of the 17 species represent new state records.
4009162|Arid regions of several parts of the world contain stream bed pools, variously known as arroyos, billabongs or wadis, which have dytiscine water beetles (Dytiscidae: Dytiscinae) of strikingly bold color pattern. These color patterns are homoplastic and it is argued that they serve to render the beetles less conspicuous to visually hunting predators in environments where cover and retreat are limited. The absense of a stridulatory organ on the protarsus of male Hydaticus jucundus Reiche, a wadi inhabiting species, is reported and discussed.
4009214| A new species in a new genus in the subfamily Eubriinae, Nipponeubria yoshitomii Lee and Sat, is described from Japan. The larva and pupa of the species are also described. The larva is compared with that of Ectopria opaca (Kiesenwetter). The major generic characters and the immature stages are illustrated with scanning electron photomicrographs, and the new species with line drawings. 
41316637|Bembidion (Testedium) capito J. Mller, 1918 is recorded as a new country record for Turkey, expanding its range westward in the southwestern Palaearctic region. Synonymies, distribution, and chorotypes are given for the four species of the Bembidion Latreille subgenus Testedium Motschulsky, 1864 now known to occur in Turkey A key to the Turkish species of Testedium is presented.
4009544| The first descriptions of the larval and pupal stages of Cryptorhopalum triste LeConte (Coleoptera: Dermestidae) are presented. A diagnosis is provided for the larval form of Cryptorhopalum Gurin-Mneville. The first instance of rearing this species in captivity is documented. Corn Salad, Valerianella radiata (L.) (Valerianaceae), Cat's-ear, Hypochoeris radicata L. (Asteraceae), Senecio sp. (Asteraceae), and Queen Anne's lace, Anthriscus sylvestris (L.) (Apiaceae), are new adult floral hosts. Adults widely occur in disturbed habitats in Northern Georgia in April through October. 
4009896|Cryocolaspis crinita n. gen., n. sp. is described from the mountains of central Costa Rica. The genus is a member of the tribe Adoxini and can be distinguished from other setose Neotropical Eumolpinae genera Sphaeropis, Brevicolaspis, Trichospinthera, and Xanthonia by its long erect setae and the combination of bidentate margins and depressions on the disc of its pronotum.
3999912|The southern potato wireworm (Conoderus falli Lane), a destructive pest of vegetable crops in southeastern U. S., has been present in southern California since 1963. Preliminary findings indicate that the times of beginning and peak adult emergence and the duration of stages compare favorably to results obtained in studies in the southeast. The species appears to be well adapted climatically to southern California.
4009253|The genera Eubria Latreille and Microeubria Lee and Yang are reviewed. Eubria semistriata Champion and E. minima Champion are transferred to Microeubria. Three new species of Microeubria are described: M. longicornis from Malaysia and Thailand, M. reticulata from Nepal, M. schuhi from Indonesia. A key to all species of Microeubria is provided.
27571115|Cyclocephala acoma Ratcliffe (Bolivia), C. carlsoni Ratcliffe (French Guiana), C. chera Ratcliffe (Guyana), C. chiquitita Ratcliffe (Ecuador), C. compacta Ratcliffe (Brazil), C. hielkemaorum Ratcliffe (French Guiana), C. melanopoda Ratcliffe (Ecuador), C. monacha Ratcliffe (Colombia), C. perplexa Ratcliffe (Bolivia), and C. saltini Ratcliffe (Peru) are described as new species. A description, diagnosis, and illustrations are provided for each new species.
27571125|The first descriptions of the larval stage of Myrmeanthrenus frontalis Armstrong and Anthrenocerus stigmacrophilus Armstrong (Coleoptera: Dermestidae) are presented. The larva of Anthrenocerus australis (Hope) is illustrated and briefly characterized. In light of a morphology-based phylogenetic study, A. stigmacrophilus is more closely related to M. frontalis than it is to A. australis.
4008283|During a brief visit to Kenya, the author collected 28 species, in 15 genera, of flea beetles (Alticinae), including new foodplant records for 17 species. No foodplants are known for any species in four of these genera. Almost one-half (13) of these species were previously unknown from Kenya.
4007905|South American species of the genus Neobidessus Young (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae) are reviewed, and a key with figures is presented for identification of all known species of the genus. The following new species are described: N. whitcombi Brazil and Bolivia; N. bordoni Venezuela; N. phyllisae Venezuela and Colombia; N. tricorni Brazil; N. bolivari Colombia, Venezuela, and Peru; N. ayapel Colombia; N. woodruffi Bolivia; N. confusus Colombia; N. alvarengai Brazil; N. bokermanni Brazil. Doubtful species of Neobidessus are discussed and figured.
4009084|Patterns of altitudinal distribution of copro-necrophage scarabaeoid communities on a subtropical mountain of the Mexican Transition Zone (Volcanic Transverse Belt, Veracruz) are compared with those of a Mediterranean cordillera (Central Iberian System). The influence of vegetation on community structure was also checked. It was found that the number of species decreases and the copro-necrophage scarabaeoid community structure undergoes modification as altitude increases. Although the number of species was small, altitudinal segregation in the Mexican Transition Zone is like that in the Central Iberian System (Aphodiidae and Geotrupidae at higher altitudes, Scarabaeidae at lower ones). Antropic fragmentation and transformation of primary forests in subtropical areas (mountain mesophilous and conifer forest) result in a qualitative and quantitative change in the structure of communities. This phenomenon is attenuated in mountain forests by the impoverishment of fauna due to the increase in altitude.
3999719|Described as new from the Mexican state of Oaxaca are Aztecarpalus hemingi (type locality 0.8 kil. e. jcts. Rtes. 190 and 125, 2529 m) and A. whiteheadi (= A. liolus Ball, 1970, not Bates, 1882, type locality Rte. 175, 27.2 kil. s. Valle Nacional, 1097 m). Re-described is Aztecarpalus liolus Bates. Keys are provided to distinguish these species from other members of Aztecarpalus. A re-classification of the species is presented, based on phylogenetic considerations, and the new species are incorporated as follows: schaefferi group- A. schaefferi Ball, A. marmoreus Ball; platyderus group- A. platyderus Bates; hebescens group- A. trochotrichis Ball, A. hebescens Bates, and A. hemingi, new species; and liolus group- A. lectocolus Ball, A. liolus Bates, and A. whiteheadi, new species. A reconstruction of the phylogeny of the hebescens group proposes that differentiation of the species was the result of dispersal between, and isolation and differentiation in, various mountain systems in Oaxaca.
4008400|Cotalpa ashleyae is described as new from Yuma County, western Arizona. Comparisons are given for two other Cotalpa previously recorded from Arizona. A key to the species of Cotalpa north of Mexico is also provided.
4008460|Eggs, larvae and pupae of Oxyporus are characterized based on O. femoralis Gravenhorst, O. occipitalis Fauvel and O. vittatus Gravenhorst. Larvae of Oxyporinae can be distinguished from other staphylinoid larvae by the following combination of characters: labrum fused to head, bifurcate mandible with serrate margins and no prostheca, and a trilobate mala. In species of Oxyporus, larvae can be distinguished by pigmentation and labial chaetotaxy and pupae by the position of a small papilla and number of seta-like projections on the pronotum. When reared on Cortinarius mushrooms, O. vittatus undergoes three larval molts and the period from egg hatch to adult averages 17 days. Oxyporus larvae and adults feed exclusively on fleshy mushrooms. Larvae are equipped with anterodorsally compressed bifurcate mandibles with knife-like serrations at the margins. Adults have sickle-shaped mandibles used for slicing fungi and reduced prosthecae presumably for maceration. Both adults and larvae digest their food preorally.
27571120|The genus Eubulus is reviewed for the United States and Canada. Three species are recognized; E. parochus (Herbst), E. bisignatus (Say) and E. obliquefasciatus (Boheman), resurrected name. A neotype is designated for Eubulus bisignatus (Say). A key to the three species is presented and natural history information and distributions are summarized. Three additional specimens of Eubulus collected in North America, but not assigned to species, are discussed.
4008767|Pinostygus galapagoensis (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae) is described and illustrated from Cueva de Bellavista no. 2 on Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos Islands. This unusual new eyeless genus and species is provisionally assigned to the subfamily Paederinae, tribe Pinophilini. Its placement within this tribe and its evolution are briefly discussed.
40983307|The diversity of true water beetles (Coleoptera: Gyrinidae, Haliplidae, Dytiscidae, Helophoridae, Hydrochidae, Hydrophilidae, Hydraenidae, Elmidae, and Dryopidae) in Picos de Europa National Park (Cantabrian Mountains, Spain) was examined. Taking into account historic long-term sampling (all collections from 1882 to the present), a total of 117 species are recorded. Species accumulation models and non-parametric estimators were used to estimate the actual species richness of aquatic Coleoptera occurring in Picos de Europa National Park. Estimates were generated by analyzing both the collector's curve from the long-term sampling and the historic cumulative curve of species recorded from the park since 1882. Values of species richness estimated by different methods range from 127 to 170 species (mean = 148  15 SD). Therefore, it seems that the current inventory has reached a reasonably good level of completeness as estimates indicate that about 80% of the water beetle fauna has already been recorded. The inventory is used to analyze the biological uniqueness of the park and its outstanding level of species richness and endemism (33 Iberian endemic species). Richness and endemism of water beetles in Picos de Europa National Park is compared to those of other national parks in Spain. Finally, the conservation status and threat level is assessed for two Cantabrian endemic species, Deronectes costipennis gignouxi Fery and Brancucci and Ochthebius (Asiobates) cantabricus Balfour-Browne.
3999984|Carabus maeander was found in large numbers in Clinton County, New York. Of the 23 specimens collected, 2 females had full wings. This is a new state record.
4010000| Bunites Spangler has been the only member of the tribe Colymbetini for which the larva has been unknown. The first-instar larva of Bunites distigma (Brull) is described and figured for the first time. Detailed morphometric and chaetotaxic analyses are provided. A phylogenetic analysis based on 41 first-instar larval characters, including members of six genera of Colymbetini, supports the hypothesis of a derived condition of Bunites within this tribe. Monophyly of Bunites + Rhantus Dejean (s. lat.) (minus Rhantus orbignyi Balke) + Neoscutopterus J. Balfour-Browne + Meladema Laporte is suggested by four synapomorphies: an elongate and hair-like seta FE5 on both meso- and metafemur, and the presence of additional anteroventral setae on tibia and tarsus. The clade Bunites + Neoscutopterus + Meladema is supported by three synapomorphies: the presence of additional setae on the frontoclypeus, dorsal surface of parietal, and urogomphi. Six other character states might also support this group. The clade Bunites + Meladema is well supported by four synapomorphies: the presence of additional setae on the lateromedial portion of frontoclypeus, ventral surface of parietal, anterodistal margin of prementum, and anterodorsal surface of tibia. A derived condition of Bunites within the Colymbetini is suggested by two autapomorphies: the presence of one additional seta on the coxa, and additional dorsal pores on the eighth abdominal segment. 
40389451|Ampullae appear to be common in the larvae of some chrysomelid subfamilies. We describe and discuss the occurrence and use of these structures in larvae of Labidomera clivicollis (Kirby), on its host plant Asclepias verticillata L. (Asclepiadaceae) under field and lab conditions. Through film footage, we reveal that ventral ampullae are apparent on all ten segments of the larval abdomen; however, only those associated with segments A VIII-AX were actually used in ambulation by anchoring to the host plant. These ampullae always function with the true legs during movement. Our study unveils ambiguities in homology and terminology of abdominal ambulatory structures that are relevant to discussions of chrysomelid characters and phylogeny.
4009260| The 12 genera and five subgenera of Afrotropical Aderidae described by the Spanish entomologist L. Bguena-Corella are reviewed, their nomenclatural status discussed and fourteen of them are validated (new genera or new subgenera) by designation of a type species (in parentheses): Gonzalosia (Gonzalosia nigroides Bguena-Corella 1948), Menorosia (Hylophilus barrerai Escalera 1922), Beltranosia (Beltranosia cordithorax Bguena-Corella 1948), Espanolosia (Syzeton duplosetosus Bguena-Corella 1948), Villarrubiasia (Hylophilus varipennis Escalera 1922), Zariquieyosia (Syzeton setulosus Bguena-Corella 1948), Agacinosia (Agacinosia magnimaculata Bguena-Corella 1948), Candidosia (Xylophilus torticornis Champion 1917), Zarcosia (Hylophilus filicornis Escalera 1922), Dusmetosia (Hylophilus dissimilis Escalera 1922), Mixaderus (Hylophilus simplicis Escalera 1941), Ginerosia (Mixaderus infans Bguena-Corella 1948), Perisia (Xylophilus clavicornis Champion 1917) and Cobososia (Hylophilus fulvicolor Escalera 1942). 
4009224|The new genus Squamodera Nelson is described and its species are reviewed, keyed and illustrated. New synonyms are indicated under Squamodera vanduzeei (Van Dyke) as follows: S. fisheri (Cazier), S. fisheri vermiculata (Knull), and S. nanbrownae (Figg-Hoblyn).
40983326|Monolepta meihuai Lee, Tian, and Staines, new species, is described and its sibling species, Monolepta mandibularis Chj, 1962, is redescribed. Male and female reproductive systems are illustrated in detail. The species are distinct biologically by their host associations and times of adult appearance.
4008172|The type material of Pelosoma carinatum Sharp 1882, P. cercyonoides Sharp 1882, P. subcarinatum Sharp 1882, P. collare Sharp 1887, P. ovulum Sharp 1887, P. liodes Sharp 1887 and Deltostethus sulcatus Sharp 1882 was studied. Lectotypes are designated for P. subcarinatum, P. ovulum, P. liodes and D. sulcatus. The aedoeagi and genital segments are illustrated for all species and a key to species of Pelosoma Mulsant known to occur at present in Central and North America is given.
4543020|We report numerous staphylinid species as new to California: Coproporus rutilus (Erichson), C. pulchellus (Erichson), Atrecus newtoni Smetana, Acalophaena compacta Casey, Gymnusa pseudovariegata Klimaszewski, Hoplandria lateralis (Melsheimer), Microdonia nitidiventris (Brues), Dinocoryna arizonensis Seevers and Pella caliginosa (Casey). We report several genera as new to the state, though species identifications have not been possible: Bolitobius sp., Cypha sp., Anomognathus sp., Euthorax sp. and Meronera sp. Finally, we provide additional distributional records for several rare or poorly known species, including Dasycerus angulicollis Horn, Liometoxenus newtonarum Kistner, Jacobson and Jensen, Pella fauveli Sharp, and Platyusa sonomae (Casey).
27571099|Morphological changes in the reproductive organs and neuroendocrine centers of Eurysternus mexicanus Harold males and females of known age and behavior were studied in the laboratory. In females, ovarian activity was related to morphophysiological changes in neuroendocrine centers; in males, similar changes influenced glandular reservoirs during several stages: prenesting, copulation, nesting, and Infanticide. In females, the activity of the pars intercerebralis and corpus allatum during prenesting is related to vitellogenesis and sexual maturity; during nesting, it is linked to oviposition and nest care. In males, both these periods are characterized by modifications in the neuroendocrine centers relating to the synthesis of accessory gland secretions that accumulate in glandular reservoirs until copulation takes place. Larvicide was committed only during provisional nest care-by 88% of females after copulation during the early days of nest care and by 66% of copulated females when brood balls had 2nd and 3rd instar larvae. Twenty-two percent of males committed larvicide before copulating with the females that were caring for provisional nests. The changes noted in neuroendocrine centers and gonads during larvicide are the same as those related to copulation. Factors that may lead to larvicide could not be determined, as its physiological regulation must be extremely complex.
4009402|A new tychiine weevil, Lignyodes (Chionanthobius) ripleyi, new species, from Guanacaste Conservation Area in Costa Rica is described and illustrated. The new species closely resembles L. (C.) schwarzi (Pierce) from the eastern United States of America. This is the first recorded species of the subgenus Chionanthobius from Central America. No information is available on the natural history of L. (C.) ripleyi although it is suspected to be associated with Oleaceae.
3999536|A new subspecies of buprestid beetle, Dicerca horni nelsoni, is described from Inyo County California, as is the plesiallotype female of Trachykele fattigi Knull from Stone Mountain, Georgia.
4000012|The limitations of the use of trend lines to predict the number of species existing are explained. The Cicindelidae of America north of Mexico are used as an example to explain the fitting of calculated trend lines as opposed to the rule-of-thumb methods which have been used by previous authors. The limitations of interpretation of calculated trend lines are explained. The number of species of Staphylinidae of America north of Mexico is estimated as > 3,416 by a simple method independent of trend lines and it is demonstrated that the use of trend lines gives an erroneous prediction of this total. The number of species of Staphylinidae of the world cannot at present be estimated with any accuracy because of paucity of data suitable for analysis.
4000021| On Presque Isle and at North East, Erie Co., Pennsylvania the coccinellid Scymnus cervicalis Mulsant was found preying on the leaf form of grape phylloxera, Daktulosphaira vitifoliae (Fitch), on wild grapes, Vitis riparia Michx. Eggs were laid near the entrance to phylloxeran galls, early-stage larvae lived within galls and fed by deflating eggs of the phylloxeran, and 3rd-4th-stage larvae fed on eggs by inserting their heads into gall openings on the upper leaf surface. Pupation occurred on grape foliage, and at 20-22C the pupal stage lasted an average of 8.1 days. It is estimated that 3 generations were produced from June until phylloxeran eggs became scarce in September-October. Scymnus brullei Mulsant is briefly mentioned as a predator of woolly elm aphid, Eriosoma americanum (Riley), and the woolly aphid, Tetraneura ulmi (L.), on elm at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. 
4008131|The egg, larva, and pupa of Brathinus are described for the first time on the basis of reared specimens of B. nitidus LeConte from New Hampshire. Adult characters previously used to justify placement of Brathinus in Omaliinae are shown to be plesiomorphic features. Three larval characters are suggested as probable synapomorphies of Omaliinae; their presence in Brathinus supports placement of the genus in that subfamily. Adult and possibly larval characters appear to support a sister-group relationship between Brathinus and Anthophagus + Psephidonus (=Geodromicus) + Microedus + Hygrogeus. A hymenopteran parasitoid, most probably Codrus sp. (Proctotrupidae) is reported from one B. nitidus larva.
27571112|The formerly monotypic genus Nothotragopus Zimmerman is reviewed. The genus is likely endemic to the Indonesian island of Java, not Australia, as previously reported. Nothotragopus belongs to a group of Indo-Australian crowned weevil genera in Cryptorhynchini, subtribe Cryptorhynchina. In this paper, the genus is diagnosed and its close relationship with Panopides Pascoe is discussed. New male and female characters are described and illustrated for the first time for the genus. Nothotragopus tragopoides (Heller) new combination is transferred from Cyamobolus Schnherr. The syntypic series of this species was originally comprised of specimens belonging to three species, necessitating the designation of a lectotype and redescription of N. tragopoides. The remaining specimens of the syntypic series are divided between N. tuberosus (Boheman) and a new species described herein as N. zimmermani Setliff, new species.
4008809| Nine new species of Cyclocephala are described from Panama and/or Costa Rica. They are C. dissimulata, C. isthmiensis, C. nigritarsis, C. nike, C. pan, C. rorschachoides, C. santaritae, C. williami, and C. zodion. New country records for Panama and/or Costa Rica are given for C. ampliata Bates, C. atripes Bates, C. brittoni Endrdi, C. castaniella Bates, C. confusa Endrdi, C. kaszabi Endrdi, C. macrophylla Erichson, C. nigerrima Bates, C. porioni Dechambre, C. prolongata Arrow and C. quadripunctata Hhne. 
4009278|Individuals of Eusattus convexus LeConte were observed in the laboratory and field in Ector County, Texas, and vibrational behavior quantified. Males initiated rapping behavior after physical contact with females. Vibration was produced by raising and lowering the abdomen rapidly to rap on a substrate. The tempo of the rap was 26 raps/sec, with each rapping bout containing on average 23 individual raps. Playback of vibration songs to males never initiated male rapping in either the laboratory or the field. Females were never observed to rap.
4009046|A second species of Apeltastes, chiapasensis, new species, from southeastern Chiapas, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Additional information on distinguishing characters and range is given for Paragnorimus guatemalensis Howden.
3999907|Ptilinobium aberrans, new genus, new species, subfamily Anobiinae, is described from Lower California. The new species Stagetus grossus (from Arizona) and Gastrallus fasciatus (from New Mexico) are described; each is the second North American species in its genus. The fourth new species described is Xestobium parvum from California. Vrilletta montana Van-Dyke is synonymized with Euvrilletta xyletinoides Fall, and 2 species previously known from Mexico, Trichodesma sellata Horn and Priobium mexicanum White, are recorded from California and Arizona respectively.
4009531| Three new species of Carinisphindus McHugh are described: Carinisphindus geminus, new species, the first species of Sphindidae reported from Puerto Rico; Carinisphindus skotios, new species, the first species of Sphindidae reported from Bahamas; and Carinisphindus purpuricephalus, new species, from Florida, the first North American representative of the genus. A revised key to the species of Carinisphindus is provided. /// Se describe a tres nuevas especies de Carinisphindus McHugh: Carinisphindus geminus, el primer especies describido de la familia Sphindidae en Puerto Rico; Carinisphindus skotios, el primer especies describido de la familia Sphindidae en Bahamas; y Carinisphindus purpuricephalus de Florida, el primer representante del gnero en Norteamrica. Se da una clave para las especies de Carinisphindus. 
4008291| Two Florida lampyrid species--needhami Green and knulli Green--originally described under the generic name Pleotomodes, and later placed by Green in the genus Lampyris Mller, are studied and compared with palaearctic species of Lampyris. Both species are returned to the genus Pleotomodes Green, which must be resurrected from its placement as a junior synonym of Lampyris. Accordingly Lampyris does not belong to the nearctic fauna. Pleotomodes belongs in Pleotomini. Pleotomodes knulli Green is figured for the first time. 
27571109|Metabacetus hermani new species with type locality Vietnam, Hatinh Pr. is added to the six previously described in the rarely collected genus Metabacetus Bates (Carabidae: Abacetini (contained in Pterostichini auct.)). A key to adults, incorporating all species and subspecies of the genus is provided. Characteristics of the members of this genus and species of other genera, e.g., Tiferonia Darlington, Mateuellus Deuve, and Cosmodiscus Sloane and Abacetus Dejean, suggest that Metabacetus is a taxon in the basal grade of a clade including all of these genera. Metabacetus vandoesburgi Straneo is newly recorded from Sabah, Malaysia making it the only species in the genus known from outside its type locality.
4007876|A revision of the 7 North American species of Colymbetes is presented along with a key, a historical review of the genus, a cladistic analysis, and new locality records. Cymatopterus Eschscholtz is rejected as a valid subgenus on both nomenclatural and biological grounds. One new subspecies, C. exaratus incognitus (formerly considered to be C. rugipennis Sharp which is a junior synonym of C. exaratus exaratus Leconte) is described. C. longulus Leconte is synonomized with the Old World C. paykulli Erichson; C. seminiger Leconte and C. obscuratus Mannerheim are synonomized with C. dahuricus Aube of the Old World; C. triseriatus Kirby is a synonym of C. dolobratus Paykull instead of C. sculptilis Harris. A neotype is selected for C. sculptilis. C. strigatus Leconte appears to be a species of hybrid origin with C. s. crotchi Sharp arising from the same lineage as C. densus densus (the correct name of what has usually been called C. exaratus) and C. d. inaequalis Horn.
4009726|The genus Tiphysa Mulsant, 1850 is revised and illustrations of pertinent characters are provided. This genus is transferred from Hyperaspidini to Brachiacanthini.
3999565|Seasonal occurrence and habitat preference of 4 species of Evarthrus ground beetles were studied during 1969-70 at Tall Timbers Research Station, Leon County, Florida. Pitfall traps, used to sample populations, indicated that the 4 species had a definite preference for a leaf-litter habitat. Evarthrus ovulum (Chaudoir) was the least specific in habitat preference and was the species most commonly collected during the winter months. All species showed definite seasonal patterns: E. morio (Dejean) probably overwinters as both larvae and adults; E. ovulum (Chaudoir) typically overwinters as adults; E. sigillatus (Say) and E. laevipennis (LeConte) typically overwinter as larvae.
4009359| Samples of mature fruits of Senna multijuga (Rich) I. & B. (Caesalpinaceae), an ornamental tree, were collected in Curitiba, Paran, Brazil. The bruchid species that emerged were: Sennius bondari (Pic), Sennius puncticollis (Fhraeus) new combination, Sennius crudelis, new species and Sennius nappi, new species, here described and illustrated. A key to all bruchid species found developing on seeds of Senna multijuga is also provided. 
3999978|The male genital complex and associated musculature are described for 5 different species of Curculionoidea. The genital complex consists of an intromittent organ, the median lobe with its apodemes, the median struts, and a tegmen and spiculum gastrale on which the muscles which protract and retract the median lobe have their origins. Associated with the genital complex are tergum VIII and abdominal sterna VII and VIII on which muscles moving the tegmen and spiculum gastrale have their origins. Modifications in the structure of the spiculum gastrale and its connections to the tegmen are associated with changes in the function of homologous muscles.
4543018| Arawakis poinari, new genus, new species, is described from Dominican Amber. The visible anatomical components of the fossil clearly point to membership in the subfamily Clerinae. Although the elongated condition of the eleventh antennomere present in Arawakis suggests a relationship with the African genus Phloiocopus, the presence of this characteristic across subfamilial lines diminishes that consideration. On the basis of arrangement of elytral punctations and maxillary and tarsal-claw characteristics, the members of A. poinari are thought to be more evolutionarily aligned with a group of Chilean genera exemplified by Natalis, and less likely to the Holarctic genus Thanasimus. The absence of closely related species of A. poinari, in the Greater Antilles and Central America may be due to geographic extinctions caused by widespread cooling during the Plio-Pleistocene, or a consequence of the Cretaceous Bolide impact in Yucatn. The difficult to access historical literature that pertains to Cleridae fossils listed by Spahr are reviewed and the nomenclatural status of taxonomic names noted therein are assessed. A variety of citations are provided that discuss the importance of amber fossils to studies of insect systematics and discuss technologies involved in estimations of the age of Dominican and Baltic amber, and other resinous fossils. 
4009650| The eggs, 1st and 3rd instar larvae of Walterianella bucki Bechyn are described and illustrated. The life history of W. bucki is discussed and artificial rearing methods are presented; W. bucki feeds on Buddleja sp. (Buddlejaceae) and is nocturnal. First instar larvae differ in morphology from 3rd instar larvae, the latter showing significant additions. Differences between these and other known Oedionychina larvae are discussed. This is the first report of interstitial larvae for the oedionychine flea beetles. The importance of sequestration to W. bucki of the iridoid glycoside, acubin, is discussed. 
27571119|Spatial requirements of the enlarged stemmata of mature larvae of Thermonectus basillaris (Harris) and Acilius mediatus (Say) are described and evaluated. Each species exhibits a medial shift in the origin of the abductor muscles with corresponding changes in the orientation of the abductor apodemes to compensate for greater stemmatal volumes. These changes disrupt an apparent plesiomorphic biomechanical system responsible for opening the mandibles, requiring alterations in the basal mandibular architecture evident on these aciliine species.
4008717|Oxyporus flohri Sharp, previously known only from a questionable locality in Mexico, and O. minasensis, new species, were discovered from the Sierra de las Minas, Zacapa, Guatemala. A new key is presented to aid in the identification of the Oxyporus species of Mexico and Central America.
41413651|The reproductive success of the twig girdler Oncideres cingulata (Say) was examined relative to twig morphology of the host tree species used for oviposition. There were significant differences in twig morphology between hosts, in twig length, volume, and surface area. Ovipositing beetles appeared to adjust reproductive efforts to these host differences, as reflected by egg density. Twig length was strongly correlated with the number of eggs laid across all host species, although regression analysis found that a model consisting of twig diameter and surface area best accounted for the total number of eggs per twig. Adult emergence was not related consistently to any aspect of twig morphology across host species. However, emergence rates varied between hosts, ranging from 6.1% from eggs laid on birch (Betula nigra L.), 7.7% from American elm (Ulmus americana L.), 10.0% from pecan (Carya illinoensis (Wangenh.) K. Koch), to 28.2% on honey locust (Gleditisia triacanthos L.).
3999806|The larval biology of Dynastes tityus (Linn.), a large eastern dynastine scarab, has been investigated in Maryland where larvae have been found to develop in oak tree holes. Details of distribution, abundance, and larval activity are presented and discussed in relation to the activities of other tree hole scarabs such as Osmoderma and Phileurus. Competition for the same larval niche may be a factor affecting the distributions of Dynastes and Osmoderma.
3999599| Leptinus testaceus Mller is recorded from 7 mammalian host species and 6 localities in western Oregon. 
4008439|The flower constancy of Byturus ochraceus, a polylectic pollen-feeding beetle was studied by means of gastro-intestinal pollen content analysis. This indicated a very high rate of flower constancy. Since flower constancy is one prerequisite for an insect to be an efficient pollinator, this finding would suggest that, although B. ochraceus are found on a broad spectrum of plants, the individual specialization would make them suitable as potential pollinators.
4009820|The first North American records of Xylosandrus mutilatus (Blandford), an ambrosia beetle of Asian origin, are reported from Mississippi and Florida. Data on the distribution, seasonality, and abundance of X. mutilatus in Mississippi are presented. A redescription and illustrations of X. mutilatus are provided, and its life history is reviewed.
40389466|Based on the examination of the type series of both "Apogonia niponica" Lewis, 1895 and "Apogonia chinensis" Moser, 1918, the type locality of the former species is clarified and its geographic distribution is extended by proposing A. chinensis as a junior subjective synonym of A. niponica. All previous records of A. niponica from Taiwan should refer to A. rufobrunnea Moser, 1915.
4000114|Three species of Cucujidae (Laemophloeus bituberculatus Reitter, Silvanus recticollis Reitter, and Silvanoprus scuticollis (Walker)) are recorded from the U.S. for the first time. Three other species (Ahasverus longulus (Blatchley), Cathartosilvanus trivialis (Grouvelle), and Telephanus velox (Haldeman) are recorded for the first time from Florida.
3999479|A catalog is presented for 28 species of Lixus of U. S. and Canada. Synonymy and distribution are given.
4008838| The genera Epiphaleria Lewis, Phalerisida Kulzer and Atahualpina Espaol are reduced to synonyms of Phaleria Latreille. Phaleria dytiscoides Champion, P. marginipennis Champion, and P. opacicollis Champion are placed as synonyms of P. panamensis Champion; Atahualpina peruviana Espaol is placed as a synonym of Phaleria subparallela Chevrolat; and P. neotropicalis Champion is placed as a synonym of P. debilis LeConte. A key to adults of the 18 species of Western Hemisphere Phaleria is presented. 
29739207|Neptosternus yanbini is similar to N. pocsi Sat, 1972 in the color pattern of the elytra, but can be easily distinguished by the different shape of median lobe of aedeagus. Microdytes wewalkai is similar to M. jaechi Wewalka, but can be distinguished from it by its smaller size, darker body color, slimmer median lobe in lateral view, and is without two longitudinal rows of stronger punctures on the elytral disk.
4008512|Trischidias exigua Wood is reported from Florida, where it occurs in fungus pustules in dead branches. Trischidias atoma (Hopkins) and T. minutissima Wood are found in similar fungi; all three species appear to attack fungi, but there is no symbiotic relationship. Galleries of T. exigua contain no more than 6 young, the average number being 2.9. Small brood number and large egg size are probably related to the small size of the fungus patches exploited by the beetle.
4009051|Stygoporus oregonensis, a new genus and species of subterranean hydroporine water beetle (Dytiscidae), is described from a shallow well in Oregon, U.S.A. The beetles are characterized by small size, depigmented body, lack of eyes, reduced wings and lack of natatorial setae on the hind legs. The proposed sister genus is Sanfilippodytes Franciscolo. Taxonomically important characters are illustrated and collecting and habitat notes provided.
4007992|A new carabid beetle genus, Notiokasis, described from southeastern South America, includes a single new species, N. chaudoiri (type locality: Montevideo, Uruguay), named in honor of Baron Maximilien de Chaudoir. Preliminary cladistic analysis suggests closest relationship with genera in Holarctic tribes Nebriini, Notiophilini, and Opisthiini of supertribe Nebriitae. Notiokasis, the only known supertribe member now resident on a southern (Gondwanian) continent, may have begun differentiation in isolation 180 million years ago (i.e., in late Triassic). A conservative approach is taken by classifying the new genus as a related but distinct tribe, Notiokasiini.
4009513|The mature larva and pupa of Ocladius dianthi Marshall (Curculionidae: Ocladiinae), from South Africa, are described and illustrated. The phylogenetic value of certain characters is discussed by comparison with those of other taxa of Curculionoidea. It is proposed that the placement of Ocladiinae within the family Curculionidae sensu lato is, in phylogenetic sequence: Ithycerinae, Microcerinae, Brachycerinae, Ocladiinae, Dryophthorinae, Erirhininae, Curculionidae sensu stricto.
4009137|During mating, female Chelymorpha alternans Boheman frequently eject a liquid droplet containing sperm. Virgin females that mated and produced the droplet had less sperm in their spermatheca 24 hours after mating than females who did not emit a droplet. Males that mated with females who ejected a droplet had a shorter flagellum (ejaculatory duct) than males that mated with females that did not form a droplet. An average reduction of 24.8% in the length of the flagellum (done by cutting) raised the percentage of females that formed a droplet from 13.1% to 87.5%. Thus, female C. alternans favor males with longer flagella by storing more of their sperm in their spermatheca.
4009019|In a raspberry plantation and adjacent sites in southern Quebec, we collected adult Elateroidea with unbaited pitfall traps and flight interception traps, from early May through late October, in 1987, 1988 and 1989. We caught 805 Elateridae (40 species), 32 Eucnemidae (5 species) and 304 Throscidae (3 species). The capture of Xylophilus cylindriformis (Horn) is a first record for Quebec. We studied the seasonal activity of Ctenicera cylindriformis (Hbst.), Dalopius pallidus Brown, Limonius aeger LeC., Trixagus chevrolati (Bonv.), and five other minor species (C. lobata tarsalis (Melsh.), C. triundulata (Rand.), D. vagus Brown, Hypnoidus abbreviatus (Say) and Deltometopus amoenicornis (Say)).
4008161|Over four hundred specimens of Carabidae (Coleoptera) representing 78 species, were collected on 29.viii.1976 and between 24.iv. and 3.v.1981 on Plummers Island, Maryland, a site of some importance in studies of the North American fauna. These species are listed with their habitats, and include eleven new to the site and six not collected there since 1965. This study confirms the fact that the carabid fauna of Plummers Island is constantly changing with time.
41413647|Bothronotoxenus tishechkini Eldredge, new genus and new species (Staphylinidae: Aleocharinae: Lomechusini), is described from the state of Arizona (USA). Habitus photographs, illustrations of diagnostic characters, and a new key to the genera of North American Lomechusini are provided.
4008843|Potamonectes minipi, a new species of Dytiscidae, is described from southern Labrador, Canada. The systematic relationships of the species are discussed.
4009537|A new genus and species of Buprestidae, Panapulla strongyliformis Nelson, is described and figured from a female specimen collected in Panama.
4000093|Details of seasonal history and habits, relative abundance and damage, and duration of the immature stages of Calligrapha spiraeae, a chrysomelid feeding on ninebark, Physocarpus opulifolius (L.) Maxim., are presented and discussed. The beetle's seasonal cycle is bivoltine in southcentral Pennsylvania, with peak adult emergence occurring during the last week of June to early July, and mid- to late August. Eggs are deposited usually in irregular clusters or occasionally singly on the lower leaf surfaces of the food plant. All 4 larval instars feed externally on the leaf surfaces. Larval development is completed in an average of 18.9 days in the laboratory. After feeding several days, the fourth-instar larva drops to the soil and pupates beneath the surface. The pteromalid wasp Erixestus winnemana Crawford parasitizes the egg clusters of the beetle. The egg, last instar larva, and pupa are described and illustrated. An existing key to Calligrapha larvae is revised to include spiraeae.
4008731|The first specimen of the genus Aegialia to be recorded from southern Arizona, A. mcclevei, n. sp., is described and compared with similar appearing species. Distribution data for A. conferta Horn are presented. Aegialia rufina Silfverberg, a replacement name for the preoccupied name A. rufa (F.), is noted.
4008666|A new bruchid species, Caryedon johni from Madagascar, is described and illustrated. It is a member of the Serratus group.
4009794| A new species of the genus Pericompsus Le Conte (Coleoptera: Carabidae: Bembidiini) is described from Catamarca province, Argentina. It is found along the borders of rivers and creeks in this arid region of western Argentina. The morphological characters of the new species place it within the subgenus Pericompsus (Pericompsus), and allow its recognition as a new species of the hirsutus species group. The discovery of this species extends the geographical range of the hirsutus group to the parallel 27 South. A description and illustration of the new species, together with a key to differentiate it from other hirsutus group species are provide. 
4009130|The North American genus Eisonyx LeConte is revised. Most collecting records are from Texas, although specimens have been taken from isolated localities in the eastern United States and a single questionable locality in Veracruz, Mexico. Selected structures for species of Eisonyx are illustrated by line drawings and scanning electron micrographs. This genus, with three valid species, is diagnosed, the species distributions are mapped, and a key to the species is included. A lectotype is designated for E. crassipes LeConte. Each species is redescribed, the aedeagus and spermatheca are illustrated, and the known distribution and relevant biological information are summarized. The putative larva of this genus, represented by E. picipes Pierce, is described for the first time, and important structural features are illustrated by line drawings and scanning electron micrographs. Characters of potential phylogenetic importance for the subfamily, as they pertain to Eisonyx, are discussed.
4009724|Description of larvae of Allomatus nannup Watts is presented including a detailed chaetotaxic analysis of the cephalic capsule, head appendages, legs, last abdominal segment and urogomphi. Larvae of A. nannup are compared with those of the closely related species, Batrachomatus daemeli (Sharp) from which it differs by: (1) the lack of additional setae on the parietale, (2) the primary seta CO7 inserted distally on the procoxa, (3) the absence of additional pores and (4) the proximal insertion of the primary pore ANg on antennomere 4, and (5) the presence of several additional spines on each segment of legs. Within the Matinae, both Batrachomatus and Allomatus are postulated to share a monophyletic origin by the presence a several additional primary setae on legs.
4007966|New distributional and larval host plant records are presented for 19 species and subspecies of Cerambycidae from Missouri. New state records are noted for Prionus debilis Casey, Derancistrus taslei (Buquet), Arhopalus rusticus obsoletus Randall, Atimia confusa confusa (Say), Tylonotus bimaculatus Haldeman, Purpuricenus axillaris Haldeman, Aneflomorpha subpubescens (LeConte), Elaphidionoides villosus (Fabricius), Anelaphus pumilus (Newman), Phymatodes varius (Fabricius), Physocnemum brevilineum (Say), Neoclytus caprea (Say), Neoclytus jouteli ssp. Davis, Euderces pini (Olivier), Stenocorus schaumi (LeConte), Gaurotes cyanipennis (Say), and Typocerus lunulatus lunulatus (Swederus). An unusually different larval host is reported for Batyle ignicollis ignicollis (Say), and first larval hosts are reported for Callimoxys sanguinicollis sanguinicollis (Olivier) and Neoclytus jouteli ssp. Davis.
4008047|Stenus (Parastenus) emily, a new species from Mexico, is described and illustrated. Additional zoogeographical data are given for S.(P.) scabrosus Sharp, S.(P.) costipennis L. Benick and S.(P.) scabripennis Sharp. The aedoeagi of S.(P.) trochanterinus Sharp and S.(P.) scabrosus Sharp are figured for the first time.
4008570|Throughout the Lampyridae, the light organs of the larvae occur as pairs of small, rounded structures on the lateral aspect of the eighth abdominal segment. The uniform morphology of larval light organs contrasts with the diverse morphology observed in adult light organs. None of the previously proposed functions of larval bioluminescence explain this morphology. The shape and position of the light organs suggests that they function as bioluminescent "eye-spot/false-head displays." Such displays would be under selection to retain the observed structure in diverse habitats. The false-head display would be particularly effective if defensive secretions, which cause some predators to reject lampyrid larvae, were located in the caudal region. Other functions of larval bioluminescence may also be present, but the eye-spot/false-head display appears to control the morphology of the light organ.
4009946|Field observations on the natural history and development of Eubulus parochus (Herbst) in north central Vermont, U.S.A. are described. The weevil's associations with its host tree, butternut (Juglans cinerea L.), and the fungus causing mortality of the tree throughout its range in North America are discussed. Decline of butternut may threaten the future existence of E. parochus. Alternative host tree species are unconfirmed, but suspected, since the weevil's reported geographic range extends beyond the range of J. cinerea.
4009364|Ataxia brunnea Champlain and Knull, Mecas rotundicollis (Thomson), Tetraopes femoratus LeConte and Tetraopes texanus Horn (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) are reported for the first time from the Black Belt Prairie of Mississippi and Alabama. The latter species is also reported from the Jackson Prairie in Mississippi. These records represent a disjunction from their previously known distributions in the Great Plains and mid-western states. Asclepias viridis Walter is reported as the likely host of both T. femoratus and T. texanus in the Black Belt Prairie.
4007984|Thanatophilus coloradensis is now widely known from alpine and tundra habitats along the Rocky Mountain chain from Alaska, the Yukon, British Columbia, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, and New Mexico.
3999919|This is the first serious contribution to the study of tiger beetles of Southwest Asia, including 1 species of Megacephala and 50 species and subspecies of Cicindela. A key is formulated to species and subspecies, 8 of which are new taxa and are described. The geographic origins of the fauna are analyzed. The distribution of each species is given by the States of the area in which they occur.
3999464|Pityophthorus opimus Blackman is reported as an associate of Pissodes terminalis Hopping in Colorado Pinus contorta Dougl. These observations constitute new host and locality records for P. opimus and also indicate an example of commensalism between the 2 beetle species.
4008265|Pterostichus tenuis (Casey), listed as a synonym of P. luctuosus (Dejean) by previous authors, is redescribed. The species differs from P. luctuosus by the form of the mentum tooth, by the male genitalia and by the relative length of the hind wings. Pterostichus testaceus (Casey), listed as a synonym of P. luctuosus, is a junior synonym of P. tenuis.
4007924|The type material of Xantholinus vilis Sharp 1885 was studied. The species is removed from synonymy and reassigned, together with Xantholinus pusillus Sachse 1852, to the genus Neohypnus Coiffait and Saiz 1964. A lectotype is designated and the diagnostic characters are described and illustrated.
3999417|A new species of Psephenus from Arizona (Coleoptera, Psephenidae). Coleop. Bull. P. murvoshi Brown, sp. n., is described from the East Verde River near Payson, Arizona. The unique holotype male specimen is deposited in the Stovall Museum of Science and History, Norman, Okla. A key includes illustrations of the male genitalia of all species of Psephenus known to occur in the United States.
3999481|Luciola obsoleta (Olivier) has the most complex mating behavior reported for Lampyridae. It mates in sedentary groups (aggregations?): the basic stages of its mating protocol seem to be (1) sedentary signalling, (2) chasing, (3) walking-luminescing, (4) mounting, and (5) copulating. This behavior suggests that this L. obsoleta may be but one of a complex of cryptic species.
4009998|Herein are presented new state distribution records for 49 species of Cerambycidae from Mexico. New country records are provided for Enaphalodes seminitidus (Horn in Leng), Mephritus apicatus (Linsley), Rhopalophora nigriventris Bates, Psapharochrus arietis (Bates), Steirastoma liturata Bates, Nyssodrysternum pictulum Bates, and N. poriferum (Bates).
4543013|Akrobothrus ecuadoriensis, new genus and species of bark beetle (Coleoptera: Curculionidae: Scolytinae: Bothrosternina) is described from the Ecuadorian Amazon. Its highly unusual elytral morphology, with a distinct depression around the scutellum, distinguishes it from all known species within the subtribe. In the male specimen, this depression results in a large spade-shaped scutellum that extends out over the elytral suture. Akrobothrus can be separated from other genera of Bothrosternina by a unique combination of characters. The antennal club is elongate and parallel-sided with 3 segments divided by procurved and recurved sutures. The lateral margins of the pronotum are costate and the prothroracic intercoxal piece has a transverse subcarinate ridge.
4008574|Euchirinae, a subfamily of Scarabaeidae, is comprehensively revised for the first time. The genera Euchirus Burmeister and Schaum (two species), Cheirotonus Hope (eight species) and Propomacrus Newman (two species) are recognized and defined. Many types, including those of Pouillaude, were examined. Cheirotonus corompti Pouillaude, C. henrici Pouillaude and C. chiangdaoensis Minet are new synonyms of C. gestroi Pouillaude; C. battareli Pouillaude is provisionally ranked as a valid species and C. nankinensis Yu and C. szetshuanus Medvedev are new synonyms of C. jansoni (Jordan). Cheirotonus macleayi formosanus Ohaus is raised to species status and C. macleayi is first confirmed from Tibet. Propomacrus bimucronatus (Pallas), once suggested as being extinct, is recorded from Cyprus, Greece, Iran, Israel, Syria, Turkey and Yugoslavia. A key to genera and species is provided. Distributional data from 307 specimens are correlated with orographic features and precipitation patterns throughout Asia, India and the Near East. A distribution map for each taxon is included and predictions of occurrence are made. Cheirotonus formosanus, C. jambar, C. macleayi and P. bimucronatus are recorded as tree-hole species. Aedeagi are illustrated.
40389476|Toxicum funginum Lewis, 1894 (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) is a medium-sized, horned species that lives in Japan and Taiwan and feeds on bracket fungi. Intraspecific behavioral interactions among adults were examined in the laboratory. Males engaged in combat with other males using paired horns located between their compound eyes. The contact surfaces of the horns bore curled brown hair, possibly to absorb physical impact. Larger males with longer horns won more frequently than smaller individuals with shorter horns. Smaller males rarely engaged in combat. Females pushed away approaching males violently with their heads.
4009063|Hadrorhyparus pecki, new genus, new species, from Viti Levu, Fiji, and Termitodius luzonensis, new species, from Laguna Province, Luzon, Philippines, are described and illustrated.
41316635|The ambrosia beetle genus Camptocerus Dejean is native to the Neotropics and ranges from northern Argentina to Veracruz, Mexico. Species are rarely collected and there is a corresponding paucity of biological information. We report observations of Camptocerus attracted to felled Protium Burm. f. in southeastern Peru. Host colonization, aggregation, leaf feeding, courtship, mating, and predation are reported for four species. These species aggregated to leaves surrounding potential hosts, bored into leaves, and fed, all of which is unusual behavior for scolytines. Males competed for mates with physical contact. Ant prdation killed ~50% of colonizing individuals for one species.
4009645|This paper records 19 species of Carabidae new to British Columbia, with one species, Colpodes buchannani Hope, new to Canada.
4000156|The new combination Heterhelus sericans (LeConte, 1859) is established for the nearctic species Cateretes (Pulion) sericans (LeConte, 1859).
41316636|Meringodes Wappes and Lingafelter, a monotypic new genus of Rhopalophorini, is described from Santa Cruz Department, Bolivia. Meringodes is most similar to Disaulax Audinet-Serville, although it also possesses characters of Thalusia Thomson and Cosmisoma Audinet-Serville. A diagnosis and description of the genus is given and a new species, Meringodes solangeae Wappes and Lingafelter, is described. Images of both Disaulax hirsuticornis (Kirby) and M. solangeae are included to facilitate identification.
3999746|The genus Oryssomus Mulsant is removed from the Cranophorini and established as the type-genus of a new tribe, Oryssomini. Oryssomus lineatus, n. sp., Pseudoryssomus, n. gen., P. formosus, n. sp., P. pumilus, n. sp., and P. brevipilosus, n. sp., are described. Oryssomus melzeri Korschefsky is transferred to Eupalea Mulsant.
4008026|The hybosorine scarab, Coilodes castanea Westwood, is diurnally active during early and mid-wet season in low to mid-elevation moist forest within a geographic range from Costa Rica to Ecuador. On Barro Colorado Island, Panama, this species is a member of a large feeding guild of scarabs found at dung, carrion, rotting fruit, and fungi. Although competitively inferior in most aspects when at these food sources, C. castanea is successful due to early arrival and a diffuse distribution.
4000041|Corrinea, a new genus with species from Mexico and Central and South America, is described and compared with Eulimnichus and Limnichites to which it is closely related. The new species C. splendida, C. aurata, C. incondita, C. spicula, C. lecta, C. parva, C. salebrosa, C. audax, C. delicata, and C. placida are described and the male genitalia figured. Two previously described species, Eulimnichus admirandus Sharp and Limnichoderus vianai Pic, are transferred to the genus and redescribed. A key is presented to separate the species.
4009169|A systematic review of the aleocharine genus Diaulota Casey is presented. Diaulota is redescribed, and eight species are recognized, one of which, D. alaskana Ahn, is a new species. Late-instar larvae of D. densissima Casey, D. fulviventris Moore, and D. harteri Moore are redescribed and late-instar larvae of D. aokii Sawada and D. uenoi (Sawada) are described for the first time. Genoplectes Sawada is synonymized under Diaulota Casey. A lectotype is designated for D. densissima. A key is provided for separation of the known species of Diaulota, and illustrations of diagnostic features are presented.
27571132|Seven new species, two new combinations, two new synonyms, and four new country records of Elaphidiini longhorned woodborers (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) from the Dominican Republic are presented. Elaphidion compressipenne Fisher is transferred to Ceresium Newman as C. compressipenne (Fisher), new combination. Callidium lucidum Olivier is transferred to Metaphrenon Martins as M. lucidum (Olivier), new combination. A neotype (USNM) is designated for Elaphidion fullonium Newman, and Elaphidion confusum Fisher is a new synonym of that species. Elaphidion pilosum Fisher is a new synonym of Anelaphus mutatum (Gahan). Nesiosphaerion testaceum (Fisher), Anelaphus crispulum (Fisher), and Elaphidion androsensis Fisher are recorded for the first time from the Dominican Republic. Taxonomic confusion concerning Elaphidion bidens (Fabricius) is clarified. The following new species are described from the Dominican Republic: Anelaphus praeclarus Lingafelter (type locality: Guaraguao, La Altagracia Prov.), Nesiosphaerion charynae Lingafelter (type locality: Cabo Rojo, Pedernales Prov.), Psyrassa woodleyi Lingafelter (type locality: Road 47 between Los Pinos and Angel Flix, Independencia Prov.), Elaphidion auricoma Lingafelter (type locality: Guaraguao, La Altagracia Prov.), Elaphidion iviei Lingafelter (type locality: Filipinas, Barahona Prov.), Elaphidion nearnsi Lingafelter (type locality: Punta Cana, La Altagracia Prov.), and Elaphidion wappesi Lingafelter (type locality: Puerto Plata, Puerto Plata Prov.). A key to the twelve Elaphidion species from Hispaniola is provided.
4000060|Five previously named United States Malthinus are discussed. A key is given to distinguish 3 species with striato-punctate elytra; M. atripennis LeConte is treated as a subspecies of M. occidentalis LeConte, the new subspecies M. o. woodruffi is described from Florida, and the new species M. texanus is described from Texas. M. granicollis Fender is transferred to Caccodes, and M. georgiensis Fender is placed in synonymy with it.
4009735| The following new species of Hemiphileurus are described: H. cavei Ratcliffe from Honduras and H. dechambrei Ratcliffe from Guatemala. A diagnosis is given for each species, and the parameres are illustrated for these and similar species. /// Se describen las siguientes nuevas especies de Hemiphileurus: H. cavei de Honduras y H. dechambrei de Guatemala. Una diagnosis es dada para cada especie y los parmeros son ilustrados para stas y otras especies similares. 
4009680|A checklist of all valid species of Dermestidae known to occur in the United States and Canada is presented with notes on the distribution and economic importance of each. Included is a revised key to the genera with a reference to the latest revisionary study or review of each genus.
3999620|The genus Rhinanisus, previously known from New Zealand, South and Central America, and the West Indies, is recorded for the first time in the U.S. A tiny new species was reared from the dead leaves of Agave Havardiana from Big Bend National Park, Texas.
29739232|Adults of Carabus (Apotomopterus) prodigus Erichson were collected and larvae were reared in the laboratory. The morphology and chaetotaxy of the larva are described and illustrated for the first time. The phylogenetic position of Apotomopterus within Carabus is discussed based on larval character states. From similarities of the adnasale and urogomphus in the first instars of Apotomopterus and Calosoma Weber, it is concluded that Apotomopterus is a basal or primitive clade in the genus Carabus.
4000135|Bembidion puritanum Hayward, described from Massachusetts and long the object of search by carabid enthusiasts, is here first recognized as a junior synonym of the European species Bembidion nigropiceum Marsham. We suggest that B. nigropiceum was accidentally introduced into Massachusetts from England through shipping in the late 1800's, that a population was sustained for a short time, but that it is not likely to have persisted to the present.
4009860| Lampetis (Spinthoptera) chiapaneca, a new species of Buprestidae from Mexico, is described and figured. This species has been collected only in the state of Chiapas. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Buprestidae de Mxico, bajo el nombre Lampetis (Spinthoptera) chiapaneca. Esta especie ha sido colectada solo en el estado de Chiapas. 
4009799|Trachyscelis flavipes Melsheimer (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae), described from North America in 1846, has been found to be an introduced species, probably from Europe. It is synonymized under T. aphodioides Latreille (new synonymy) described from France in 1809. Using literature and museum collection data, the distributional history of the beetle is reviewed and a new record for South America (Brazil) is reported.
3999905| All 3 investigated species of Eusattus produce sounds by tapping the substrate with the venter of the abdomen. Tapping by E. reticulatus Say and E. muricatus LeC. was mostly restricted to the daytime, but E. robustus LeC. tapped mostly by night. At 25C the tap rate of the first 2 species was about 23 to 25 taps/sec, whereas that for the last was about 12 taps/sec. The duration of tapping bursts was radically different for the 3 species, and loudness and details of pattern varied also. The tap-rate of E. reticulatus increased linearly with temperature between 25 and 30C. Behavioral observations showed that only males tapped, and that the level of tapping was increased significantly by the introduction of a female, but not a male, into a male's container. It is hypothesized that the tapping behavior plays some communicatory role in reproductive behavior. 
4008349|The current nitidulid subfamily Carpophilinae is considered to be polyphyletic. This situation is rectified by proposing a new subfamily Cillaeinae for those members of the old Carpophilinae which have a flattened tegmen with fused lobes. The phylogenetic relationships of these groups are discussed, and a key to the subfamilies of Nitidulidae is provided.
4542999|Two new species of checkered beetle (Coleoptera: Cleridae: Clerinae) are described: Enoclerus franki Barr and Rifkind from French Guiana and E. hovorei Rifkind and Barr from Costa Rica. Both are named in honor of coleopterist Frank T. Hovore.
4009346|Hoplandria pacei, Hanley, new name, Hanley, is proposed as a replacement name for H. puncticollis Pace, a secondary junior homonym of H. puncticollis Solier. A complete taxonomic history is given for both H. puncticollis Solier and H. puncticollis Pace.
4008226|The first instar larva of Caryedon palaestinicus Southgate, new status, originally described as a subspecies of serratus (Ol.), is described and illustrated. Characters included are those of the head capsule, antenna, ocelli, mouthparts, prothoracic plate, legs and chaetotaxy. Differences in larval morphology between these species are used in conjunction with adult morphological and biological differences to elevate palaestinicus from subspecies to specific status.
40983335|A description and illustrations of the third instar o Arctodium mahdii Hawkins (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Melolonthinae: Lichniini), endemic to southern Chile, are given. The description is based on larvae reared from eggs laid by adults under laboratory conditions and on larvae collected in the field. Larvae of this species feed and live in the root zones of pastures. Characteristics of this species are its separated galea and lacinia, strongly curved maxillary palpus, size and orientation of abdominal spiracles, Y-shaped anal opening, absence of palidia, and the distribution and shape of setae on the raster. Se describe e ilustra el tercer estadio de Arctodium mahdii Hawkins (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Melolonthinae: Lichniini), una especie endmica de la zona sur de Chile. La descripcin se basa en larvas obtenidas a travs de la crianza bajo condiciones de laboratorio desde huevos puestos por adultos y en larvas colectadas en el campo. Las larvas de esta especie se alimentan y viven en la zona radical de las praderas. Caracterstico de la especie es su galea y lacinia separadas, palpo maxilar curvado fuertemente, tamao y orientacin de los espirculos abdominales, abertura anal en forma de Y, ausencia de palidia, y distribucin y forma de setas en el rster.
4008279|The four larval instars of Acanthoscelides obtectus (Say) are distinguished and described. Scanning electron micrographs and/or line drawings of the head capsule, antenna, clypeolabrum, epipharynx, maxilla, labium, leg, spiracle, and anus are provided. A sensillum placodeum and interdigitating macrotrichia, both on the maxillary palpus, are shown for the first time. Cuticular receptors are identified and their suspected functions are correlated with known larval activities both before and after they penetrate the seed.
4010051|A comparison of syntypes and a large series of specimens of Xyleborus impressus Eichhoff with specimens of X. ferrugineus (Fabricius) clearly showed the distinct validity of these two species that were previously considered synonyms. Specimens of X. impressus from 14 states in the US were examined, along with syntypes located in museums in Poland and Washington, DC. A lectotype for X. impressus is designated.
4000157|Fifty eight new state records for 35 species of Mexican Cicindela are listed, along with habitat information for each species. One species, C. praetextata LeConte, and two subspecies, C. hamata monti Vaurie and C. circumpicta johnsoni Fitch, are recorded from Mexico for the first time. Localities for specimens which may represent 4 undescribed subspecies are listed, but further collecting and ecological studies are needed before these taxa are described.
4009132|The genus Pseudactium Casey (=Racemia Newton and Chandler, new synonymy) is redescribed and shown to include ten species: three species previously placed in the genus--P. carolinae Casey (the type species), P. arcuatum (LeConte) (lectotype designated), P. parabolicum (Brendel) (=Ramecia dentiventris Casey, R. discreta Casey, P. mellinum Casey, and P. cephalicum Casey, new synonymies); Ramecia mendica Park, here moved to Pseudactium (new combination)--and six new species: P. alexanderi, P. copelandi, P. magazinensis, P. pecki, P. stannardi, and P. steevesi. Ramecia is redefined and its two species diagnosed: R. capitula (Casey) and R. crinita (Brendel). Pseudactium species, except P. stannardi (western Iowa), occur in deciduous forest habitats in eastern and southeastern United States, with a concentration of species in Alabama. Several species appear to be restricted to old growth deciduous forests.
4008320|The Neotropical genus Lissoderes is interpreted as containing five species: L. heterorostris Hustache, L. subnudus Champion, L. championi n. sp., L. cecropiae n. sp., and L. pusillus n. sp. Lectotypes are designated for the first two species. A key is given, and the association of members of the genus with the plant genus Cecropia (Moraceae) is discussed, as well as possible involvement in a mimicry complex.
4008057|Biological and distributional data are presented for certain species in the following genera of Buprestidae: Dystaxia, Buprestis, Chrysobothris, Acmaeoderoides, Tyndaris, Agrilus, and Brachys.
4008432|A key to West Indian Pentagonica, species diagnoses, and distributional information are provided. Pentagonica philipi, new species, is described from Jamaica; P. divisa Darlington is synonymized with P. maculicornis Bates.
4008825|This paper reports on the first known study of frugivory by a tiger beetle. Adults of C. repanda Dejean, a common, widespread water edge species, were observed feeding on sassafras fruits on the ground on a Maryland beach. Results of two experiments where equal numbers of sassafras and pokeweed fruits were placed on the ground near and away from the site of the initial observation indicated that beetles were readily attracted to and consumed both types of fruits, but a preference for one fruit type was not established. In a laboratory experiment, some beetles fed on pokeweed and strawberry bush fruits, which prolonged their survival compared to beetles that were given but did not feed on magnolia and viburnum fruits. This study suggests that C. repanda may be an opportunistic frugivore, especially in the fall just after emergence, and could obtain valuable energy resources from fruits prior to overwintering.
4543000|Stereoborus chinensis new species is a new species described from China, which establishes this genus in China for the first time. An updated key to all species of Stereoborus are presented. Illustrations of diagnostic features of the new species are provided. All type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing, China.
4009954| Based on specimens captured in B-horizon calcareous soils the new species Parareicheia lencinai Ortuo and Magrini (type locality: Casero de Bernia, Xal, Alicante Province, Spain) is described and its morphological features compared with the most closely related species. The subgenus Parareicheia Jeannel is raised to genus level (new status) to which it is assigned. /// Se describe una nueva especie Parareicheia lencinai Ortuo and Magrini a partir de especimenes capturados en el horizonte-B de un suelo calizo en el Casero de Bernia, Xal (Alicante, Espaa). Se comparan sus caracteres morfolgicos con los de las especies prximas. Se propone que el subgnero Parareicheia Jeannel se eleve a categora de gnero (nov. status). 
27571071|Lissoderes longinoi, new species, and L. masneri, new species are described from specimens collected in Costa Rica and Ecuador, respectively. Lissoderes championi Hespenheide is reported for the first time to be associated with Cecropia angustifolia Trcul, and L. cecropiae Hespenheide reported for the first time with C. obtusifolia Bertoloni. The distribution of members of the genus along an elevational transect in Costa Rica is described, and the ecology of their association with the plant genus Cecropia (Cecropiaceae) is reviewed.
4009487|The Afrotropical genus Microcephalina Bernhauer includes one species, M. burgeoni Bernhauer, known from three localities in central Africa. Both Microcephalina and M. burgeoni are redescribed and habitus, mouthpart, mesocoxal, and genitalic illustrations are provided. Microcephalina was originally described as a member of the aleocharine tribe Hoplandriini based on the perception that the maxillary palps were five-segmented and the tarsal formula was 3-4-5. In fact, the maxillary palps are 4-segmented, and tarsal formula is 4-5-5. Thus the placement of Microcephalina within the Hoplandriini was in error. A revised systematic placement of Microcephalina within the Athetini is discussed.
4008473|Forty-six carabid species are reported from Connecticut for the first time. This brings to 335 the number of carabid species known from Connecticut.
4009660| Colaspis bridarollii (Bechyn), is one of the main pests of potatoes in Buenos Aires province, Argentina. The adult longevity, reproductive biology, and pupation period of C. bridarollii were studied in the laboratory; seasonal phenology and larval feeding damage were examined in potatoes in the field from 1991 to 1993. Laboratory studies showed that there was no significant difference between female and male mean longevity (38.63 and 39.78 d, respectively). Total mean fecundity was 402.73 eggs per female, and the mean number of eggs per d per female was 27.76. Mean number of egg clutches per female was 5.68 with a mean number of 71 eggs per clutch. Mean incubation period was 7.80 d and 74.50% of eggs hatched. Field sampling results showed that C. bridarollii and potato crop phenologies are well synchronized. Adults were present in the potato fields from the end of December to mid March, and the second and third instars reached peak densities in March and April, coincident with the major feeding damage to tubers. /// Colaspis bridarollii (Bechyn), es una de las plagas principales del cultivo de papa en la provincia de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Se estudiaron, en el laboratorio, la longevidad de los adultos, la biologa reproductiva y la duracin del perodo pupal. En el campo se determinaron, desde 1991 a 1993, la fenologa estacional y el tipo de dao ocasionado por las larvas de C. bridarollii. Los resultados de laboratorio mostraron que no hubo diferencias significativas en la longevidad media entre machos y hembras (39,78 y 38,63 d, respectivamente). La fecundidad total media fue de 402,73 y las hembras ovipusieron 27,76 huevos/ hembra/ da. El nmero promedio de desoves por hembra fue 5,68 con 71 huevos de promedio por desove. Eclosionaron el 74,50% de los huevos siendo el periodo medio de incubacin 7,80 d. Se observ que, en el campo, las fenologas de C. bridarollii y del cultivo de papa estn sincronizadas. En el cultivo de papa los adultos estuvieron presentes desde fines de diciembre hasta mediados de marzo, y los estadios larvales segundo y tercero presentaron los picos de mayor densidad en marzo y abril, coincidentes con el perodo de mayor dao en los tubrculos. 
4008193|New host plant associations are given for the adults of 21 species of Melolonthinae of the following genera: Coenonycha, Dichelonyx, Diplotaxis, Phobetus, and Serica.
4008515|This paper resolves the nomenclatural problems and establishes new or modified synonymies for names associated with Donacia caerulea Olivier 1795 and D. proxima Kirby 1837. Lectotypes are designated for D. confusa Lacordaire 1845, D. episcopalis Lacordaire 1845, D. confusa LeConte 1851, and D. proxima. Neotypes are designated for D. caerulea and D. aequalis Say 1824. Donacia aequalis, D. confusa Lacordaire, and D. confusa LeConte are considered new synonyms of D. caerulea. Donacia episcopalis and D. californica LeConte 1861 are considered as new synonyms of D. proxima.
4009313| Based on external morphological characters, the new species Euchroa onkonegare (type locality: ECUADOR, Napo Province, Onkone Gare Camp, 003910S 762600W) is distinguished from other known Euchroa species with a key, description and illustrations. Notes and illustrations for Tichonilla nigra Straneo, previously known only from the type, are provided from a specimen collected at the Onkone Gare site in Napo Province. /// Basado en los caracteres morfolgicos externos, la nueva especie Euchroa onkonegare (localdad tipo: ECUADOR, Provincia del Napo, campamento Onkone Gare, 003910S 762600W) es distinguida de otros especies conocidas de Euchroa por claves, descriptiones e illustraciones. Notas e illustraciones para Tichonilla nigra Straneo, conocida previamente solo por el tipo, estan dadas de un especimen colectado en el sitio de Onkone Gare en la Provincia del Napo. 
4008178|The development of a population of Eretes sticticus (L.) in a temporary livestock pond in the Sonoran Desert near Wickenburg, Arizona, was studied. Adults were present on the first day that the pond held water. Eggs hatched within 4 days, and the 3rd larval instar was reached in only 3 days. In an aquarium, 3rd instar larvae were observed feeding on clam shrimp (Conchostracod crustacean, Eulimnadia texana Packard), fairy shrimp (Anostracod crustaceans, Thamnocephalus platyurus Packard and Streptocephalus dorothae Mackin), and other E. sticticus larvae. Pupation occurred by the 9th and 10th days after hatching and adults emerged in approximately 2 days. On the last day that the pond contained water, adults made a loud sustained sound from the water surface and immediately launched a spectacular mass emigration.
4008771|Four new Neotropical species of the staphylinid genus Polylobus Solier (Aleocharinae, Oxypodini), are described and illustrated. They are as follows: Polylobus monserrate, sp. n.; P. chisaca, sp. n.; P. chingaza, sp. n.; and P. belen sp. n. All proved to be pollenfeeders and were collected on flower heads of giant rosette plants of the genus Espeletia Mutis ex H. et B. (Asteraceae), which are common in the paramo region of the Andes of Venezuela, Colombia, and northern Ecuador. Hypothesized morphological adaptations to pollen feeding habits are briefly discussed and illustrated with scanning electron microscope (SEM) photomicrographs. A brief discussion of other insects found on the flowers is also provided. Morphological features are illustrated by ink drawings and SEM photomicrographs.
4007947| A new species of Curculionidae, Sibinia turgidipes, from the state of Paran, Brazil, is described and illustrated. Adults of the new species were collected on Mimosa scabrella Bentham, along with adults of S. vatricosa Clark, a species previously known to occur in Brazil but from an unknown host, and S. subulirostris Hustache, previously known only from Argentina from an unknown host. These species are illustrated for the first time, as is a second new species, S. gongropoda, from the state of So Paulo, Brazil, which appears to be very closely related to S. vatricosa, but whose host is unknown. 
4000082|Adults of the wharf borer, Nacerda melanura L. (Coleoptera: Oedemeridae) were collected in the basement of buildings in downtown Fargo, North Dakota, in December, 1978. N. melanura is a species introduced to North America from Europe. A history of the Fargo infestation dates from 1961. It is hypothesized that the beetles arrived in Fargo via early barge traffic on the Red River of the North from Manitoba.
4007957|Adults of two new species, Thermonectus sibleyi and T. zimmermani, are described and illustrated.
4008585| The genus group name Lonchophorellus as proposed by Eduard Voss was a nomen nudem, but designation of a type-species, Leptarthrus callosus Faust (= Lonchophorus nitidus Champion, new synonymy), validates the name as Lonchophorellus Clark. Included in Lonchophorellus are L. callosus from Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mxico, Panam, Peru and Venezuela; L. verruciger (Champion) from Costa Rica; and two new species, L. scylla from Brazil and Peru and L. charybdis from Ecuador. Adult Lonchophorellus have been reared from fruits of Bunchosia (Malpighiaceae) and Flacourtia (Flacourtiaceae) and have been collected on Byttneria (Sterculiaceae) and Psidium (Myrtaceae). Characters by which the genus Lonchophorellus and each of the included species are distinguished are described and illustrated and a key to the species is presented. Lonchophorellus is closely related to Loncophorus Chevrolat, as indicated by similarity in the shape of the elytra. The genus may also be closely related to Attractomerus Duponchel and Chevrolat, as indicated by similarities in elytral prominences in the species of that genus and in L. verruciger. 
4009894|The agonistic behavior of Exechesops leucopis (Jordan) (Anthribidae) that is associated with Styrax species (Styracaceae) is reported for the first time. This species shows remarkable sexual dimorphism in its cephalic morphology. The male head capsule is frontally flattened and laterally extended to form a pair of processes supporting eyes, whereas the female head capsule lacks processes. Head width exhibited a positive correlation with the body length. The head width was highly variable among male individuals and broadened with the increase of body length at a higher rate in males than in females. Males, particularly of large size, frequently exhibited territorial behavior on sprays bearing fruit or on individual fruit of Styrax trees where they copulated with females. Our observations revealed that males utilize their forehead as a weapon to exclude other males from their own territory, where they wait for females to mate and then guard the females after mating. Males that encountered obviously larger individuals fled without physical contact, suggesting that the male head width might be an indicator to assess the fighting ability of an opponent before actual fighting. The agonistic behavior was not observed between small males. They may adopt a mating strategy that is different from the strategy adopted by larger individuals.
4008824|A new genus, Brachmaeodera Volkovitsh and Bellamy, is described for Acmaeodera tantilla Kerremans, which is redescribed, illustrated and discussed in comparison to the nominate subgenus of Acmaeodera Eschscholtz. It is contrasted with other taxa of Acmaeoderini Kerremans. Notes on the taxonomy of Ethiopian Acmaeoderini and evolutionary directions in these taxa are given.
4008679| Glipodes bordoni sp. nov. is described from Cerro El Caf, Estado Carabobo, Venezuela; it is the second species known from Venezuela and the fourth one to be assigned to this genus. /// Se describe Glipodes bordoni sp. nov. del Cerro El Caf, Estado Carabobo, Venezuela; es la secunda especie conocida de Venezuela y la cuarta describida en ste genero. 
4008222| Lectotypes are designated for Aclopus brunneus Erichson, A. vittatus Erichson (in Zoologisches Museum an der Humbolt Universitt, Berlin), A. intermedius Blanchard (in Musum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris), A. robustus Arrow and Xenaclopus borneensis Arrow (in British Museum (Natural History), London). Paralectotypes are also designated. 
4008050|Adults of Anisostena ariadne (Newman) have been reared from the panic grass Panicum virgatum L. collected in Somerset County, Maryland. The larva, pupa, and life history are described, and adult feeding habits discussed.
4009644|Quedius (Microsaurus) cruentus (Olivier), widely distributed in Western Palaearctic region, has been found in New York State. The species is redescribed, male genitalia and female terminalia are illustrated and a modification to the key for Nearctic Quedius Stephens is proposed.
4007899|Hylobothynus pontis Ratcliffe is described as new from Amazonian Brazil. A key and distribution map are provided for the four species in the genus Hylobothynus Ohaus.
4009836| Badioglobus tapanti, new genus, new species (Hydrophilidae: Sphaeridiinae: Coelostomatini), from Costa Rica is described and illustrated. Badioglobus is distinguished from other genera of Coelostomatini by the short first metatarsal segment, widely spaced gular sutures, distinct notosternal sutures, and its large size. A key to the Central American genera of Coelostomatini is presented. /// Badioglobus tapanti nuevo gnero, nueva especie (Hydrophilidae: Sphaeridiinae: Coelostomatini), de Costa Rica se describe e ilustra. Badioglobus se distingue de otros gneros de Coelostomatini por el primer segmento corto del metatarso, las suturas gulares ampliamente separadas, las suturas noto-esternales distintivas, y su tamao grande. Se presenta una clave para los gneros de tribu Coelostomatini de America Central. 
4009657|Checkered beetles are infrequently encountered in large numbers, perhaps a manifestation of their biologic ties with floral periodicity, prey population density, or climatic factors. What is published about Cleridae biology deals mostly with adult emergence from woody plants and predatory activity of immatures on lignicolous insects. Very little is known about plant foraging behavior of these beetles. They are known to visit flowers to aggregate for mating, secure pollen, or to feed on entomophagous insects. Field and laboratory observations that involve the speciose Australian genus Eleale indicate that E. aspera (Newman) visits flowers to mate, to fortuitously gather pollen for food, and to utilize the flower of Pyracantha crenulata (Roxb. Roemer) as a "watering hole." Eleale aspera beetles and relatives immerse their forebodies deeply into the corolla of the flower to reach nectaries which provide essential moisture when water is at a premium during the Australian dry season.
4008229|This is the first comprehensive list of the primary types of the eighty-nine Coleoptera taxa of which type-specimens are housed in the Cincinnati Museum of Natural History (formerly the Cincinnati Society of Natural History). The majority are of taxa named by Charles Dury (active 1877-1931); other workers represented include: H. S. Barber, T. C. Barr, Jr., F. E. Blaisdell, W. S. Blatchley, T. L. Casey, O. L. Cartwright, R. W. Dawson, C. J. Drake, C. A. Frost, H. F. Howden, J. F. Lawrence, H. B. Leech, E. Liljeblad, W. D. Pierce, L. R. Reynolds, E. C. Van Dyke, J. A. Wagner, J. B. Wallis, and J. F. Wright.
4009993|Achardella and Pseudolampetis, both Obenberger, 1926, are recognized at the genus rank and placed with Ectinogonia Spinola, 1837 and Chalcopoecila Saunders, 1871.
4009778| Cassidine chrysomelid species are listed for the Caribbean islands of Trinidad and Tobago, based on personal field collections, examination of museum collections and literature records. Localities and some host plant data are provided. Trinidad has 38 species in 19 genera from five tribes, with 15 new species records. Three species are endemic. Tobago has eight species in five genera from two tribes, including four new generic and species records. All species known from Tobago also occur on Trinidad. The first host plant data are given for Omocerus (Omocerus) taurus (Fabricius). /// Se presenta una lista de especies de Casssidinae de Trinidad y Tobago, basada en coleccin personal, examen de colecciones de museos, y datos de la literatura. Se presentan localidades y datos de algunas plantas hospedadoras. Trinidad tiene 38 especies en 19 generos de cinco tribus, con 15 nuevos registros de especies. Tres especies son endmicas. Tobago tiene ocho especies en cinco generos de dos tribus, incluyendo cuatro nuevos registros de gneros, y cuatro nuevos registros de especies. Todos las especies de Tobago occuren tambin en Trinidad. Se presentan datos de planta hospedejera para Omocerus (Omocerus) taurus (Fabricius). 
4009205|The eggs of Acalymma blomorum Monroe and Smith, Diabrotica balteata LeConte, D. biannularis Harold, D. tibialis Baly, D. porracea Harold, D. scutellata Baly, D. viridula, (Fabricius) and D. virgifera zeae Krysan and Smith from the state of Veracruz, Mexico are illustrated with scanning electron micrographs.
4009236|The ground beetle Elaphrus clairvillei Kirby occurs in two physically-distinct forms in Pleistocene and Holocene fossil sites. Each variety has a peculiar modern distribution, one more northern than the other, with little range overlap. Seven paleoentomological sites from the Great Lakes region were analysed to determine whether a correlation exists between the form of E. clairvillei present and the climate indicated by other insects. The northern form was only present in cold-climate sites, while the southern variety was found in sites deposited under warmer-climate conditions.
27571084|We examined the distribution of adult Buprestidae and Cerambycidae in the Tenderfoot Creek Experimental Forest in the Little Belt Mountains of central Montana, U.S.A., using pan traps and sweep samples on differnt species of flowering plants. Using several methods during multi-year (2001-2004), summer-long surveys, we documented the presence of adults of three species of Buprestidae and ten Cerambycidae. Pan traps were placed along transects within meadows, unlogged lodgepole pine forests, and in differentially-logged plots initially logged in 1999-2000 and managed by the U.S. Forest Service. Results from pan trap samples support the conclusion that, compared to unlogged plots and meadows, adult buprestids and cerambycids were more abundant in the shelterwood areas after 2001, perhaps because of the greater abundance of decaying wood in the logged areas. Cerambycids, particularly Cosmosalia chrysocoma (Kirby) and Gnathacmaeops pratensis (Laicharting), were also commonly collected on flowers, and were most likely to be found on those with white blossoms and readily accessible nectar and pollen.
3999817|The taxonomic status of the genus Physemus is briefly discussed. Illustrations, a distribution map, and a key to separate the species are presented and the new species P. punctatus from Colombia, P. latifrons from Panama, and P. excavatus from Central America are described.
3999529| Earlier authorities placed the heteromerous beetle genera Lagrioida Fairm. & Germ., Cononotus LeConte, and Agnathus Germar in Pythidae, Salpingidae, Lagriidae, Melandryidae, and Cononotidae and interpreted their similarities to Anthicidae as a result of convergence. They are undoubted anthicids, and Cononotidae Crowson (1953) is a junior synonym of Anthicidae Latreille (1825) (syn. n.). Lagrioida (as well as the other 2 genera) have the metacoxae widely separated (as in Anthicinae) and differ from all Eurygeniinae in this character as well as in having the first 2 visible abdominal sternites connate (unlike other subfamilies) and is therefore removed from Eurygeniinae, and placed in a new subfamily, Lagrioidinae Abdullah--a derivative group more or less intermediate between Eurygeniinae and Anthicinae. The known primitive and derivative characters are given along with a key to the world subfamilies of Anthicidae, and tribes (Lagrioidini, Agnathini, and Cononotini), genera and species of Lagrioidinae. A catalogue of Lagrioidinae (Anthicidae) is also given. I urge that a restriction or ban on descriptions of new species, proposed by several authorities, should be extended to the descriptions of new families in Coleoptera and other groups. /// Frhere Autoren stellten die heteromeren Kfergattungen Lagrioida Fairm. et Germ., Cononotus LeConte und Agnathus Germar zu den Pythidae, Salpingidae, Lagriidae, Melandryidae und Cononotidae und interpretierten ihre hnlichkeiten mit den Anthicidae mehr als Resultat konvergenter Entwicklung als das phylogenetischer Verwandtschaft, was der Autor als falsch erkannt hat. Sie sind zweifellos Anthiciden und cononotidae Crowson 1953 ist ein jngeres Synonym fr Anthicidae Latreille 1825 (syn.n.). Bei den Lagrioida (wie auch den anderen beiden Gattungen) sind die Metacoxae weit voneinander getrennt (wie bei den Anthicinae) und sie unterscheiden sich in diesem Merkmal wie auch durch die (abweichend von den anderen Unterfamilien) verwachsenen ersten beiden sichtbaren Abdominalsternite von allen Eurygeniinae. Sie werden deshalb aus den Eurygeniinae herausgenommen und in eine neue Unterfamilie Lagrioidinae Abdullah gestellt--eine abgeleitete Gruppe, die mehr oder weniger zwischen den Eurygeniinae und Anthicinae steht. Zusammen mit den bekannten ursprnglichen und abgeleiteten Merkmalen wird ein Schlssel zu den Unterfamilien der Anthicidae der Welt, den Tribus (Lagrioidini, Agnathini und Cononotini), Gattungen und Arten der Lagrioidinae vorgelegt. Auch ein Katalog der Lagrioidinae (Anthicidae) wird aufgestellt. Abschliessend drngt der Autor darauf, dass die von einigen Autoritten vorgeschlagenen Einschrnkungen oder Verbote in der Beschreibung neuer Arten auch auf die Beschreibung neuer Familien bei Kfern und anderen Gruppen ausgedehnt werden sollte. 
4009665|A new genus and species of Endomychidae from northeastern North America, Hadromychus chandleri, is described and illustrated. The genus is likely the adelphotaxon (sister-group) to Danascelis Tomaszewska from Pakistan, based on the following character states: antennal insertions hidden, swollen antennomere 9 of male, paired foveae on each side of the pronotal base, pronotum lacking a thick basal bead and sublateral sulci, unicarinate mesosternum, absence of metasternal discrimen, absence of sutural stria on elytron, and slightly lobed tarsomeres. Pending a cladistic analysis of the Endomychidae, both genera are best placed at present in Epipocinae, though it is possible they may be sister taxa to the subfamily Leiestinae based on the sharing of antennal insertions hidden in dorsal view, reduced prosternal process, weakly produced anterior pronotal angles, and slightly lobed tarsomeres. Sexual dimorphism in Endomychidae is discussed briefly.
4008845|Three new species of Ciidae are described based mainly on specimens collected in packets of commercial, dried fungi imported into the United States from Thailand (Cis asiaticus) and the People's Republic of China (Cis chinensis and Orthocis auriculariae).
4008305|The genus Prosopaspis gen. nov. is erected for two new species from the Nepal Himalayas. The genus is formally described, assigned to the tribe Omaliini of the subfamily Omaliinae, and placed near the Holarctic genus Pycnoglypta Thomson. The reasons for this are given and the distinguishing characters of the two genera are discussed. The two species, Prosopaspis gibbicollis and P. puncticeps, are described and illustrated, all available bionomic and distributional data are presented and a key is given to aid in their identification.
29739202|Nicaltica new genus and new species (N. selvanegra Konstantinov, Chamorro-Lacayo and Savini) from moss habitat in Nicaragua are described and illustrated. Nicaltica is compared to Kiskeya Konstantinov and Chamorro-Lacayo, Monotalla Bechyne, and Normaltica Konstantinov.
4008058|Named subspecies of Cicindela dorsalis were studied to determine whether their subspecific status is clearly definable and valid, and to explore the possible existence of coastal clines. Data developed confirm four definable subspecies, C. d. dorsalis, media, saulcyi, and venusta, and show a complex coastal cline with a disjunction between media and saulcyi and a disjunction plus a reversed character cline in nominate dorsalis.
4008690|Omorgus (Afromorgus) genieri is described from Burkina Faso. The male holotype and genitalia are illustrated.
4009316|Helleriella acaciae, new species, is described from Guatemala and distinguished from H. longicollis Champion. Genitalia are figured for H. acaciae, longicollis, and nelsoni Hespenheide, and variation noted among individuals of longicollis.
4009505| The process of taxonomic description and validation of names under the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature (Fourth Edition) is central to providing the anchor by which present and future seekers of knowledge attach and subsequently retrieve information about species and their phylogenetic associations. Since Linnaeus (1758), 4,400  363 species of insects have been described per year. If 25 to 30% of all species are beetles, and some 400,000 are estimated to be described to date, even taking the lower end of reasonable estimates at 8 to 10 million species of insects total, we still have more than 2 million beetle species yet to describe. At the current pace of some 3,154 beetle species described per year (1978 to present: BIOSIS, Zoological Record), we could "finish" the job in the year 3056 using the present system. While traditional descriptions published in widely circulated journals has been the mainstay of taxonomy and served the science well, we are entering a phase that might be called crisis management in taxonomy. This results from recent higher demands on taxonomists due to a general recognition that biodiversity is disappearing at an alarming rate, the so-called Sixth Extinction Crisis, and a reduced number of practicing descriptive taxonomists. Therefore, a new description paradigm that provides for rapid validation of new taxonomic names is paramount to plans for national biodiversity surveys. This new paradigm is elaborated and examples are given for both traditional and projected methods of species descriptions and rapid publication with additional extensive use of the Internet and server system to store and transmit more complete details and images. 
4000169|Techniques for the dissection and mounting of the aedeagus and spermatheca of Chrysomelidae are described in detail. The major advantage of these techniques is the relatively short preparation time required per specimen, about 10 minutes for a male or about 15-20 minutes for a female. Techniques for the elimination of air bubbles within the genitalia are given. The appendix lists solutions/reagents, supplies needed and several sources, and techniques for making dissecting tools.
4008521|The species known as Eleodes blaisdelli Doyen, a replacement name for E. longipilosus (Blaisdell) from Sonora, Mexico, is reduced to a synonym of E. caudatus (Horn) from Arizona. Both names were previously under Trichoderulus, now a synonym of Eleodes.
4009254|The nesting behavior of Canthon cyanellus cyanellus LeConte, a ball-roller carrion beetle, was studied in the tropical rain forest of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. Mature males, alone or with a female, made and rolled large brood balls for nesting. Single mature males emitted pheromones in the nesting site to attract females. In the nest the female made several brood balls (1-4) from a single ball rolled by the male. Immature males and females made food balls that were smaller than brood balls and rolled them a shorter distance. The behavior of males in the field is different from that under laboratory conditions, where the male returns to the food source every two days for another ball, providing the female with more brood balls, until the food source is exhausted. The contrasting responses of the male in providing a nest with several brood balls in two different environments suggests a plastic reproductive behavior previously unknown in C. cyanellus.
40664404|Two adult specimens of Trichoferus campestris (Faldermann, 1835), a newly detected alien wood-boring beetle native to Asia (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae), were collected in Repentigny, Quebec, Canada in 2002 and 2006. Adults, pupae, and mature larvae of this species are described, illustrated and diagnosed to facilitate its recognition among other North American Cerambycidae. The mtDNA sequence of the COI "barcoding" region of a Canadian specimen was obtained and analyzed. We discuss taxonomic affinities of T. campestris, its native distribution, host plants, and significance as a quarantine pest in North America. The importance of solid wood-packaging material as a potential pathway for invasive wood-boring species is highlighted. Seven other non-native Cerambycidae species first recorded in North America since 1980 [Tetropium fuscum (Fabricius, 1787), Anoplophora glabripennis (Motschulsky, 1853), Tetrops praeusta (Linnaeus, 1758), Callidiellum ruflpenne (Motschulsky, 1860), Phoracantha semipunctata (Fabricius, 1775), Phoracantha recurva Newman, 1842, and Sybra alternans (Wiedemann, 1825)] are briefly discussed.
4009572|Cononotus lanchesteri Van Dyke is recorded from the Hanford Nuclear Site (Benton County), Washington State. Eight specimens were collected in pitfall traps during a 16 month survey of an extensive sand dune area, primarily in the spring. Notes on habitat are presented.
4008214|The larva and pupa of Scaphisoma terminata Melsh. and the larva of Scaphium castanipes Kirby are described and illustrations of structural features are provided. Larvae of S. terminata were found feeding on fruiting bodies of the coral mushroom Hericium ramosum (Bull. et Mer.) Let. and were reared to adults. Larvae of Scaphium castanipes and associated adults were found burrowing into the caps and gills of several gilled mushrooms, including species of Cortinarius, Russula and Collybia. The association of S. castanipes with gilled mushrooms is unexpected because of the relatively primitive structure of adults and larvae of Scaphium species, the association of related taxa with lower or more persistent fungi, and because of the life cycle specializations presumably required for use of the more ephemeral Agaricales.
4008399|The genus Pseudocerocoma Pic and the only known species, P. mirabilis (Gorham), are redescribed and illustrated. The position of this genus within the Chauliognathinae is briefly discussed.
4009388|Colon (Myloechus) hondurensis, new species, is described from montane forests in Honduras. It is the first species of the genus to be described from Central America.
4009371| Phyllophaga obsoleta (Blanchard) is reported for the first time as an important insect pest in Colombia. The adult male and female and the third stage larva and pupa are described and illustrated, based on specimens collected in agricultural ecosystems of the eastern region of the Department of Antioquia, Colombia. Some aspects of agricultural importance and geographic distribution of the species are commented upon. /// Se registra por primera ocasin a Phyllophaga obsoleta (Blanchard) como una plaga de importancia agrcola en Colombia. Se presentan las diagnosis de adultos de los dos sexos, asi como descripciones del tercer estado larval y de la pupa, acompaadas de ilustraciones de algunas estructuras diagnsticas, basadas en ejemplares recolectados en agroecosistemas de la regin oriental del Departamento de Antioquia, Colombia. Se comentan algunos aspectos de la distribucin geogrfica y de la importancia agricola de esta especie. 
4009453|Palmelampius heinrichi O'Brien, new genus, new species of weevil belonging to the subtribe Zygobaridina (Curculionidae: Baridinae), formerly the tribe Centrinini, are described from Brazil, Columbia, Ecuador and Peru. Habitus photographs, and drawings of the male genitalia are included for this serious pest of fruits of the palm Bactris gasipaes H.B.K..
4008213|Observations of multiple feeding and intraspecific aggression among the parasitic larvae of Brachinus lateralis Dejean are reported. Aggressive elimination of a smaller larva occurred on a host that weighed many times more than the minimum required to produce one viable adult B. lateralis.
4009867|Two Central American species of the genus Aglyptinus Cockerell, A. tumerus and A. phymaphorus, are described as new species. They are notable for unusual asymmetrical expansion of stem antennomeres and presence of conspicuous spectral iridescence on the elytra of males. Probable utility of this unusual sexual dimorphism is discussed.
27571150|Three new species of the xyleborine ambrosia beetle genus Xylosandrus Reitter are described from Queensland, Australia: X. monteithi, X. queenslandi, X. woodi. Xylosandrus discolor (Blandford) is recorded for the first time from Australia. The following new combinations are given: Cnestus pseudosolidus (Schedl), Cnestus solidus (Eichhoff). These 2 species, originally described in Xyleborus, were included in Xylosandrus by Wood and Bright (1992) and are here transferred to Cnestus. A key to the six Xylosandrus species known to occur in Australia, and two that are likely to be imported, is provided. Notes are given on the distribution, host trees and economic importance of the Australian species.
4009435| The seasonal activity of Onthophagus hirculus Mannerheim in a natural prairie of Uruguay was studied using physiological age-grading techniques. This beetle is a bivoltine species, active from spring to autumn. At 22C the mean development time from egg to adult was 44 days. Females start laying 25-30 days after emergence. During their lifetime, females lay 4.3  1.25 eggs (n = 10), each in its respective brood mass. The lifespan of females under laboratory conditions is 74.3  10.28 days (n = 10). 
27571148|The function of microtrichial patches and areoles found in most eucnemid larvae is discussed. The areoles are regarded to be water excreting organs important for larval water-balance. The microtrichial patches were known to be an essential part of the larval locomotory method. It is suggested the modified spiracular collars associated with larvae of certain Dirhagini and Macraulacinae play a similar role. This appears especially clear with respect to Asiocnemis spp. The overall similarity between soft-bodied larvae of the few true wood-boring Eucnemidae is considered a homoplastic adaptation to multiple secondary invasions into relatively hard wood.
3999394|Two new species of Nipus from Arizona, southern California, Colorado, and Utah N. planatus and N. occiduus Gordon are described and the genus reviewed.
4008509|Seventeen species of Dytiscidae were collected from springs in the western Dead Sea area from 1969 to 1985. Geologically the springs can be divided into "cliff springs" and "basin springs." Salinity data are given for 9 of the springs examined. Cliff springs showed a greater species diversity than did basin springs. There was a great difference in the species composition of the two types of springs.
4008713| The paper treats the arctic members of the aleocharine tribes Aleocharini and Athetini of North America. Twenty genera and 73 species are recognized. Two genera and 50 species are described as new, belonging to the following genera: Oxypoda (8), Phloeopora (1), Parocalea (2), Gnathusa (1), Ocyusa (1), Hydrosmecta (1), Pseudousipalia gen. nov. (1), Boreophilia (5), Liogluta (3), Philhygra (8), Dimetrota (10), Atheta (2), Boreostiba, gen. nov. (4), Bessobia (1), Dinaraea (1) and Acrotona (1). A lectotype is designated for Oxypoda robusticornis Bernhauer. Several new combinations, all originally described in Atheta, are given: Boreophilia fusca (C. R. Sahlberg), B. hyperborea (Brundin), B. gelida (J. Sahlberg); Liogluta nigropolita (Bernhauer); Philhygra polaris (Bernhauer); Alaobia sparreschneideri (Munster); Dimetrota altaica (Bernhauer), D. munsteri (Bernhauer) and Boreostiba sibirica (Mklin). Anepsiota Casey is removed from synonymy with Liogluta Thomson and reinstated as a subgenus of Liogluta. Atheta frigida J. Sahlberg 1880 is placed in synonymy with Homalota sibirica Mklin 1879 (now in Boreostiba). The following 13 species are recorded for the first time from North America: Boreophilia fusca, B. hyperborea, B. islandica (Kraatz), B. eremita (Rye), B. insecuta (Eppelsheim), B. subplana (J. Sahlberg), B. gelida (J. Sahlberg), Philhygra polaris, Mocyta amblystegii (Brundin), Alaobia sparreschneideri, Dimetrota altaica, D. munsteri and Boreostiba sibirica. Keys to the arctic genera and species of Aleocharini and Athetini are given. Each genus is briefly characterized; each species is described, illustrated and the distributional data are given. 
4009338|The mature larva of Schizophilus subrufus is described, illustrated and known aspects of its natural history are discussed. This discovery represents a new state record for Wisconsin; moreover, it represents the first larval description for a member of the Pseudomeninae.
40389446|Cyclocephala casanova Ratcliffe and Cave, new species, and Cyclocephala monzoni Ratcliffe and Cave, new species, from Guatemala are described, illustrated, and compared with other species similar in appearance.
3999683|Onthophagus taurus Schreber 1759, a common European dung beetle, is recorded from the U. S. for the first time from northwestern Florida, central and southwestern Georgia, and southeastern Alabama. No information is available on the method of introduction, but the earliest recorded specimen is from Santa Rosa County, Florida in 1971.
4000106|A new species, Phyllobrotica physostegiae (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) is described and illustrated. This beetle feeds on Physostegia angustifolia Fernald, a mint (Labiatae) found on the prairies of southwestern Missouri.
4542977| The generic name Nosoderma was first validated by Gurin-Mneville 1838 (type species Nosoderma echinatum Gurin-Mneville by monotypy) not Solier 1841. This correction results in significant changes to the nomenclature of the Zopherini. Meralius Casey 1907 is synonymized with Nosoderma Gurin-Mneville 1838, new synonymy. Verodes Casey 1907, new status, new sense, [type species Verodes aequalis (Champion) by original designation] is proposed as the replacement name for Nosoderma Solier not Gurin-Mneville. These changes result in the 24 following new combinations: Nosoderma turquinense (Garrido) and Nosoderma montanum (Garrido), and Verodes inaequalis (Say), V. championi (Casey), V. insignis (Champion), V. interruptus (Champion), V. scabrosus (Solier), V. asperatus (Champion), V. prominens (Casey), V. senex (Casey), V. exsculptus (Champion), V. carinatus (Champion), V. subglabrus (Casey), V. anceps (Champion), V. impressus (Champion), V. longipennis (Casey), V. brevicollis (Casey), V. denticulatus (Solier), V. lutosus (Champion), V. venustus (Champion), V. zunilensis (Champion), V. guatemalensis (Champion), V. squalidus (Casey), and V. sparsus (Champion). 
3999745|A new species, Acmaeodera thoracata, is described from Texas with notes on Melanophila piniedulis Burke and Mastogenius crenulatus Knull.
4009659|Adults and larvae of Nicagus obscurus (LeConte) were collected from under drift wood along the shore line of Lake Superior in Wisconsin. Larvae were reared in the lab to confirm their identity. The mature larva is described and illustrated. Notes on the placement of Nicagus in Lucanidae and habitat information are included.
3999697|In 1975 a survey of northeast Iran around Mashhad was made to determine the distribution of the Polyphagous beetle Colaphellus hoefti Men. Isolated populations of the insect were found at Sarachs, Mashhad, Toos, and Neyshabur, but around Kelati-Naderi the beetle was more widespread, feeding on the weed Cardaria draba L. and other uncultivated crucifers.
4009379| Harvester ants, Pogonomyrmex barbatus (F. Smith), exerted an energetic cost on the dung beetle Canthon imitator Brown through behavioural interference, by causing brood ball abandonment. This was verified experimentally in eight independent trials. Significantly more C. imitator (87.5%) abandoned brood balls after encountering P. barbatus on ant mounds. No fatalities were recorded from trials although harvester ants were observed to sting and bite dung beetles. Five transects revealed a mean of 10.81.11 (range: 9-15) ant mounds/200 m. For a total of 54 ant mounds, brood balls occured at a mean of 1.30.31 (range: 0-13)/mound. Compared to random points, brood balls occured significantly more often on ant mounds (48% of mounds contained brood balls). 
4010068|Distortion coordinates (Cartesian Transformations) are used to compare the cranial morphology of first, second, and third instars of Agabus disintegratus (Crotch) and third instars of A. disintegratus and Matus bicarinatus (Say). These analyses revealed significant ontogenetic changes in the cranial architecture of A. disintegratus and differences between crania of third instars of A. disintegratus and M. bicarinatus. Differences between A. disintegratus and M. bicarinatus are interpreted as evidence that larvae of the two species exploit prey regimes with different characteristics. It is hypothesized that the ability of prey to resist capture may be an important characteristic responsible for the ontogenetic changes in cranial morphology observed in A. disintegratus. Anisometric increases in the adductor musculature responsible for closing the mandibles would explain the posterior expansion of the cranium of A. disintegratus during ontogeny. These changes are interpreted as evidence that A. disintegratus larvae may exploit prey regimes with different characteristics during each stadium.
4542988| Seven species of ground beetles, introduced into North America from Europe, were selected for a distribution study in the province of Qubec, Canada. Their distribution was determined with the specimens in three Canadian insect collections: the Lyman Entomological Museum (LEM), the Ouellet-Robert Collection at the Universit de Montreal (QMOR) and the Canadian National Collection in Ottawa (CNC). Current distributions were compared to that reported by Larochelle (1975). Harpalus affinis (Schrank), Agonum muelleri (Herbst), Clivina fossor L., Pterostichus melanarius (Illiger) and Carabus nemoralis Mller have a similar distribution to what is reported by Larochelle (1975). Harpalus rufipes DeGeer has possibly expanded its range south from Gaspesie Region (eastern Quebec) or north from eastern United States towards Montreal. Bembidion obtusum Audinet-Serville has probably expanded its range from Ontario into southern Qubec. 
4008757| The two formerly monobasic genera of American Goliathini, Ischnoscelis and Neoscelis, are reviewed. Neoscelis longiclava Morn and Ratcliffe is described as new from Jalisco state in Mexico. A key and illustrations are provided to all taxa. /// Se presenta una revisin de los dos gneros originalmente monobsicos de Goliathini americanos, Ischnoscelis y Neoscelis. Se describe a Neoscelis longiclava Morn y Ratcliffe como una especie nueva procedente del estado de Jalisco, Mxico; proporcionando ilustraciones y una clave para separar los tres taxa. 
3999938|Internal reproductive systems of 65 species of Enoclerus were studied, illustrated, described, and discussed. Outstanding interspecific variations occur only among male organs and involve accessory glands and testes. Accessory glands are referred to as medial and lateral, and their development within species may be as follows: Both glands uniramous; medial gland biramous, lateral gland uniramous; or both glands biramous. The testis comprises 12 to 79 follicles. Female organs were not notably variable among species studied (ovariole counts were not made). Species are categorized into 3 provisional groups on the basis of type of accessory-gland development, which broadly correlates with number of testicular follicles per testis and with geographic latitude. Briefly discussed are paucity of criteria for Enoclerus supraspecific systematics and prospects of finding such criteria among variations of the male internal reproductive organs.
4008181|New biological and/or distributional data are presented for 40 species of Cerambycidae in 35 genera from New Mexico and/or Texas.
4009213| Description of structures of all three larval instars of Neonectes natrix (Sharp) is presented. The chaetotaxy and porotaxy of the cephalic capsule, head appendages, legs, last abdominal segment, and urogomphi are discussed in detail. Within the tribe Hydroporini, the genus Neonectes J. Balfour-Browne is hypothesized to constitute a monophyletic assemblage along with Oreodytes Seidlitz, Deronectes Sharp, Scarodytes Gozis, Nebrioporus Rgimbart, and Stictotarsus Zimmermann based on absence of maxillary cardo, insertion of primary seta MX1 on maxillary stipes, and presence of an occipital suture from first-instar larva. It is suggested that Neonectes along with Oreodytes, and Deronectes, occupies an ancestral position in this clade. This clade may include also other Palearctic genera of which information on these characters is not available. /// La description dtaille des trois stades larvaires de l'espce Neonectes natrix (Sharp) est prsente. L'analyse chtotaxique et porotaxique dtaille de la capsule et des appendices cphaliques, des pattes, du dernier segment abdominal et des urogomphes est effectue. On formule l'hypothse que, dans la tribu Hydroporini, le genre Neonectes J. Balfour-Browne partage une origine monophyltique avec les genres Oreodytes Seidlitz, Deronectes Sharp, Scarodytes Gozis, Nebrioporus Rgimbart et Stictotarsus Zimmermann. Cette hypothse s'appuie sur l'absence du cardo maxillaire, l'insertion de la soie primaire MX1 sur le stipe maxillaire et la prsence d'une carne occipitale ds le premier stade larvaire. Il est galement suggr que les genres Neonectes, Oreodytes et Deronectes occupent une position plus ancestrale  l'intrieur de ce groupe monophyltique. Ce groupe monophyltique pourrait contenir quelques genres palarctiques additionnels pour lesquels les caractres sus-mentionns n'ont pas encore t comments. 
4000009|Hydroporus (Sternoporus) psammodytes is described as new from Indiana, Tennessee, Alabama, and Georgia. It most closely resembles H. blanchardi Sherman.
4009483|A detailed study of male genitalia in two scarabaeine genera, Eurysternus and Sisyphus revealed substantial differences.
3999644|Livolia Jacoby, 1903, and Leptotrichaltica Heikertinger, 1925, are synonymized with Orthaltica Crotch, 1873. A key to Nearctic species is given.
3999430|In a single population of P. testaceus, composed of both the blue and brown varieties, the blue variety outnumbered the brown almost exactly 3 to 1. This suggests that the color variation is due to a single gene, dominant for blue and recessive for brown.
4008546| Seven new genera of southern African Coroebini are described: Discoderella for Discoderes stevensoni Thry and for Discoderella dilaticollis, n. sp.; Paraxenita for P. tesselata, n. sp.; Katangiella for K. squamivela, n. sp.; Parastrigulia for Toxoscelus africanus Kerremans; Cryptomorpha for Amorphosoma dentifer Waterhouse; Kamosiella for Meliboeus dermestoides Thomson (=Amorphosoma originaria Pringuey, syn. nov.) and for Demostis jactuosula Pringuey; and Holmerika for H. orientalis and for H. mulanje, n. spp. A lectotype is designated for Vanroonia coraeboides Obenberger; V. leonensis Obenberger is synonymized under V. guineae Obenberger; and Coroebus africanus Obenberger is transferred to Vanroonia. Zavattaria Obenberger (type-species, Z. borana Obenberger) is synonymized under Asymades Kerremans. The taxa are illustrated and diagnostically separated from their perceived sister taxa. 
4008582|A new species, Neoclytus englemani, from Panama is described and figured. Neoclytus rufus (Olivier) is recorded from Panama and compared with the closely related N. cacicus (Chevrolat). A key to species in the genus known to occur in Panama is provided.
4000138| New state records are reported for Scarabaeidae [Deltochilum gibbosum gibbosum (Fabricius), Geotrupes stercorarius (Linnaeus), Phanaeus torrens niger D'Olsoufieff]; Lampyridae [Phausis reticulata (Say)]; and Silphidae [Nicrophorus tomentosus Weber, Nicrophorus investigator Zetterstedt, Nicrophorus americanus Olivier, Oxelytrum discicolle (Brull), and Necrophilus pettitii Horn]. Additional records are given for the following Scarabaeidae: Deltochilum gibbosum panamensis Howden, Dialithus scintillans Howden, and Cremastocheilus harrisi Kirby. The abundance of Nicrophorus americanus is discussed. 
4008186|Phyllobaenus pubescens (LeConte) adults and larvae were found labelled with phosphorus-32 during studies on cotton using Heliothis zea eggs and larvae labelled with this radioisotope, indicating transfer of the radioactivity by predation. The larvae of P. pubescens were successfully reared on Heliothis eggs and larvae. These data indicate that P. pubescens is a predator of the immature stages of Heliothis.
3999632|A new species of Colaulon is described from Texas Sand Hills.
3999910|Previously unrecorded larval hosts, adult habits, and distributional data are presented for 63 species of Cerambycidae from western North America. An unusual population of Tragidion coquus (Linnaeus) is discussed and compared to Tragidion annulatum LeConte and Tragidion auripenne Casey. The attraction of Tragidion peninsulare californicum Linsley to fire is recorded. Parevander xanthomelas (Guerin) and Anoplocurius incompletus Linsley are recorded for the first time from the United States. Comparative habits or taxonomic differentiation are discussed for an additional 20 species.
3999558|A new genus and species (Xenicopoda helenae) of the subfamily Omaliinae and tribe Anthophagini, is described from a unique specimen from Mt. Wilson, California.
4009927| The third instar larvae of Megasoma pachecoi Cartwright, M. punctulatus Hardy, M. thersites LeConte, M. vogti Cartwright, M. cedrosa Hardy, M. elephas (F.), M. actaeon (L.), and M. occidentalis Bolvar y Pieltain, Jimnez-Asa, and Martnez are described. Preliminary diagnosis for the larvae of Megasoma species from North and Central America and a key to eight species are presented. Comparative, brief descriptions of first and second instar larvae of M. elephas, M. thersites, M. pachecoi, and M. cedrosa, and a detailed description of the male pupa of M. elephas, are also included. Diagnostic structures of immatures are illustrated. Notes on the habits, biology, and distribution of the eight species are reviewed. /// Se describen las larvas de tercer estadio de Megasoma pachecoi Cartwright, M. punctulatus Hardy, M. thersites LeConte, M. vogti Cartwright, M. cedrosa Hardy, M. elephas (F.), M. actaeon (L.), y M. occidentalis Bolvar y Pieltain, Jimnez-Asua y Martnez. Se presenta una diagnosis preliminar para las especies de Megasoma en Norte y Centroamrica, incluyendo una clave para separar las larvas de las ocho especies mencionadas. Se agregan breves descripciones comparativas del primero y segundo estadio larvario de M. elephas, M. thersites, M. pachecoi y M. cedrosa, y tambin una descripcin detallada de la pupa de un macho de M. elephas. Se ilustran las estructuras diagnsticas de stos estadios inmaduros, y se incorporan notas y comentarios sobre los hbitos, biologa, y distribucin de las ocho especies citadas. 
3999909|Mating pairs of Hippomelas planicosta remain together for several hours during which time they copulate repeatedly, the male resting on the back of the female in the intervals between copulations. Males stroke their partners with their legs and antennae before, during, and between copulations. Bouts of courtship stroking occur more frequently during copulation than in the resting periods. Stroking may serve to elevate the sexual motivation of the female, eliciting copulation and preventing her premature departure. Intermittent copulation may permit the male to leave the female more quickly if threatened by a predator during a resting period, yet still allow the male to guard the female against takeover by other males.
4009898| The third instar larva and pupa of Dynastes neptunus Quenzel are described using 15 specimens collected in Cotopaxi, Ecuador. Drawings of the diagnostic structures, notes on the biology of this species and a key to the known third instar larvae of the genus Dynastes are included. /// Se describen la larva de tercer estadio y la pupa de Dynastes neptunus Quenzel, con base en 15 ejemplares colectados en la regin de Cotopaxi, Ecuador. Se incluyen ilustraciones de las estructuras diagnsticas, as como observaciones sobre la biologa de esta especie y una clave para separar las larvas de tercer estadio del gnero Dynastes hasta ahora descritas. 
4008060|Principal components analysis was used to demonstrate the validity of the hypervolume niche concept for coprophagous beetles (Scarabaeidae, Hydrophilidae, and Staphylinidae). One component clearly described niche boundaries in three-dimensional space (habitat-season-succession) while a second component delineated niche positions and overlap. Dung beetle niches thus fit the hypervolume model. The importance of other niche axes for coexistence of these beetles is discussed.
4008294|A quantitative survey of dung beetles in May 1985 at Welder Wildlife Refuge, Sinton, Texas, resulted in 15 species with the two most common species, the introduced African Onthophagus gazella (Fab.) and the native O. alluvius H. & C., comprising 49% of the total samples. Neither of these was recorded during a similar survey 10 years previously. Three uncommon species recorded in the earlier survey were not taken in 1985. The appearance at Welder of O. gazella since 1975 illustrates a successful introduction, whereas the appearance of O. alluvius seems to be the effect of a well-documented increase in annual rainfall.
4009113| Two new species of Mexican Enoclerus (Enoclerus) Gahan are described and illustrated: E. (E.) gabriellae from Oaxaca and Chiapas and E. (E.) madrensis from the Sierra Madre Occidental of Sinaloa. Likely interspecific relationships of the former are discussed. An argument is presented in favor of the simple species description as a valid taxonomic endeavor. /// Se describen e illustran dos nuevas especies de Enoclerus (Enoclerus) Gahan provenientes de la Repblica Mexicana: E. (E.) gabriellae de los estados de Oaxaca y Chiapas y E. (E.) madrensis de la Sierra Madre Occidental de Sinaloa. En cuanto a la primera especie, se discute el parentesco ms probable dentro del gnero. El autor presenta adems un argumento favorable a las descripciones sencillas de especies como obras vlidas de la taxonoma. 
4009251|Individuals of Phaleria testacea Say (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) collected along the northeastern and eastern coast of Brazil showed variation in size and elytral pigmentation patterns. Size seems to increase significantly southward from the equatorial line, but does not follow any clear gradient. Variability of the spots and lines of the elytra was analyzed and classified into 17 patterns. In order to evaluate variability on a temporal basis, a population from Rio de Janeiro was studied for two years. It showed slight temporal variation in frequencies of the different color patterns, but two of them were dominant throughout the study. Ninety-eight per cent of the beetles belonging to the lightest pattern were males.
3999768|Larvae of Eubrianax edwardsi were collected near Reno, Nevada 16 March 1969. In the laboratory, pupation occurred between 21 April and 17 May. Adults emerged between 17 and 29 May. Twenty per cent of the larvae pupated and emerged as adults.
4009461|Astylopsis fascipennis, new species (Cerambycidae), from the southeastern United States, is described and illustrated. A key to the six species of Astylopsis Casey is provided.
4009621|In this paper, Onthophilus lijiangensis, new species, is described based on specimens from Yunnan Province, China. Onthophilus silvae Lewis and O. ordinarius Lewis are newly recorded from China. Thus, the Chinese species of Onthophilus are increased to seven. A key to species is given. Type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, Academia Sinica.
4010040|Illustrated descriptions of the male genitalia and notes on the spermathecae are provided for the Phanaeus vindex species group: P. vindex (Macleay), P. difformis (LeConte), and P. igneus (Macleay). These represent the first descriptions of the internal sac (aedeagus) for these species. Examination of the genital capsule (i.e., phallobase and parameres) and the sclerites within the internal sac (aedeagus) revealed only slight differences in shape and sclerotization. No differences were observed among the spermathecae of the three species.
4009032|The abstract, required for all regular papers, should be a succinct condensation of the contents of the article. A second abstract may be written in another language using the English alphabet. Do not cite references in the abstract. List all new scientific names in the abstract. List the authority of all genus group and species group names in the abstract.
4008889| The third-stage larva and the pupa of Aegidium cribratum Bates are described and illustrated, based on 12 specimens collected near Huixtla and Tuxtla Chico, Chiapas, Mexico. Morphological characteristics are compared with those of the Old World genus Hybalus Brull. The larval structures support Paulian's proposal to separate the American species as the tribe Aegidini. The known distribution of A. cribratum in Mexico is recorded. /// Se describen e ilustran la larva de tercer estadio y la pupa de Aegidium cribratum Bates, con base en ejemplares colectados cerca de Huixtla y Tuxtla Chico, Chiapas, Mxico. Se comparan las caractersticas morfolgicas de esta especie con las del gnero Hybalus Brull del Viejo Mundo. Las estructuras larvales apoyan la propuesta de Paulian para separar a las especies americanas en otra tribu, denominada Aegidini. Se registra la distribucin conocida de A. cribratum en Mxico. 
4009266|Two new species are described in the rhinotragine genus Tomopterus Audinet-Serville: T. brevicornis from Costa Rica and Chiapas, Mexico, and T. kunayala from Panama. The new genus Optomerus is proposed; Tomopterus bispeculifer (White) is recorded from Panama, and with T. roppai Magno, reassigned Optomerus. Tomopterus grossefoveolatus Zajciw is recorded from Panama. Epimelitta postimelina is described from southern Mexico; Ischasia linsleyi and Phygopoda panamensis are redescribed from Panama. Figures are given for each species and keys to Tomopterus, Ischasia and Epimelitta in Mexico and Central America are provided.
3999571|Scymnus (Scymnobius) gordoni n. sp. is described from College Park, Maryland. The male genitalia and the female internal genitalia are figured.
4008006|A checklist of the Hydroporus vilis group as well as a key to the species groups of the genus Hydroporus are presented together for the first time. All species are listed as nominal species without reference to synonymy due to confusion as to whether H. brumalis Brown, H. compertus Brown, H. falsificus Brown and H. edwardsi Wallis are actually junior synonyms of H. planiusculus Fall. Sanfilippodytes sbordonii Franciscolo appears to belong to vilis group and is included in the checklist. Therefore, this group is represented by 22 nominal species in North America including Mexico. The type locality, type depository as well as geographic distribution is given for each.
4009309|Lyttana priapica a new genus and species from Brazil and Paraguay is described. The genus is assigned to the meloine tribe Lyttini and is compared to other South American lyttine genera.
3999580|Records are presented for 33 species of beetles which are rare or localized in extreme southern Ontario and the Ottawa district. Families include Cicindelidae (1), Carabidae (3), Rhipiphoridae (1), Meloidae (2), Buprestidae (4), Coccinellidae (1), Scarabaeidae (5), Cerambycidae (10), Chrysomelidae (3), and Curculionidae (3).
3999955|Redescriptions are given of Trochoideus americanus from the Gerstaecker "types", of T. goudoti from specimens taken near the type locality, of T. peruvianus from the holotype and other material, and of T. coeloantennatus from type material. Three new species are described: T. boliviensis from La Paz and Beni, Bolivia; T. masoni from Magdalena, Colombia; and T. mexicanus from Chiapas, Mexico.
4008970|The genus Skeletodes Newman is revised. One new species, S. bimaculata, is described from Queensland and type species of the genus, S. tetrops Newman is redescribed. The name S. lineigera Gressitt is placed in synonymy with S. tetrops. A key to the two valid species is provided.
27571156|We describe the new genus, Renodesta for two new species, R. stephani and R. ramsdalei. This genus belongs to the Caenoscelini and is distinguished from other genera in the tribe by extreme eye reduction to a single ommatidium, fusion of the apical two antennomeres, and a lack of prosternal foveae. The new species are found in leaf litter, especially associated with rotting wood, and are known only from a few localities in California's central Coast Ranges. Renodesta appears to be sister to a lineage comprising the Southeast Asian genera Dernostea Sasaji and Himascelis Sen Gupta, with the widespread genus Sternodea Reitter potentially sister to all of these.
3999547|Host and/or distribution data are presented for species in the following genera of Buprestidae: Agrilaxia, Agrilus (15 species), Anthaxia, Chrysobothris, Mastogenius, and Ptosima. It is recommended that Mastogenius subcyaneus crenulatus Knull be considered a full species in view of differences in morphology and larval host.
4009688| The Pachyschelus fauna of America north of Mxico is comprised of eight species plus one additional subspecies. Three species were found in collections under the name of P. schwarzi Kerremans. P. vogti new species from South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida is described and figured as new. P. nicolayi Obenberger, originally described as a variety of P. schwarzi Kerremans, is considered to be a full species and distinguished from P. schwarzi; both are redescribed and figured. A key is given to separate species and full synonymies and hosts are given for each species. Brachys carbonata LeConte, heretofore considered a synonym of P. laevigatus (Say), is transferred to the genus Leiopleura as L. carbonata (LeConte) new combination. 
4009372|The mature larvae of Zeugophora abnormis LeConte, Z. flavicollis (Marsham), Z. scutellaris Suffrian and Z. subspinosa (Fabricius) collected in North America and Europe are described and illustrated in detail. The larva of the North American species Z. abnormis is described for the first time. Taxonomic remarks and a key are also given.
4009219| Mimosestes brevicornis (Sharp), M. cinerifer (Fhraeus), M. enterolobii Kingsolver and Johnson, M. humeralis (Gyllenhal), M. insularis Kingsolver and Johnson and M. mimosae (Fabricius) cement eggs to the outside of the pod valves of their host plants as do all other species of Mimosestes Bridwell that have been studied. The host plants of M. insularis are Prosopis juliflora (Sw.) DC., P. pallida (H. & B. ex Willdenow) H. B. K., and three species of Acacia Miller. Mimosestes mimosae feeds in seeds of Caesalpinia coriaria (Jacquin) Willdenow, C. sclerocarpa Standley, Parkinsonia aculeata L. and 14 species of Acacia. Mimosestes brevicornis feeds in seeds of Acacia farnesiana (L.) Willdenow, A. tortuosa (L.) Willdenow and A. gentlei Standley. All host plants of Mimosestes are in the family Leguminosae. Mimosestes brevicornis, a relatively uncommon species, is reported for the first time from South America (Colombia). Mimosestes insularis and M. mimosae not only occur as far south as northern South America, but they are common in Colombia and Venezuela. 
4009816|Larval behavior of Dinoptera minuta (Gebler) (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) was observed in natural and experimental situations. In dead twigs of Cornus controversa, the larvae were found only under the rotten, fragile bark, and were observed to subsist on inner phloem, whereas xylem portions were never eaten. Mature larvae crept under the bark with their dorsum facing the xylem side. Meanwhile, as the outer phloem was broken, mature larvae left the dead twig and burrowed into the soil beneath. In the laboratory, movement of the larvae from the twigs to the soil took place from late August to late December. Most of the mature larvae transferred to test tubes filled with soil were observed to stay at certain positions in the soil at an average depth of 4.3 cm. A comparison of digestive tracts of an immature feeding larva and a mature moving larva revealed little change of total tract length, marked atrophy of the midgut of the latter, little change of hindgut, and a color change from ocherous to clear white, suggesting mature larvae in the soil ingest water but do not feed. Movement from twig to soil in autumn, followed by formation of the pupal chamber of an individual in early January, suggests that the species is univoltine in the lowland of Honshu, Japan.
4009329| Copris maesi, new species, is described from Nicaragua. This species is unlike any other New World Copris Mller because of the single, long, pronotal horn. Its characters place it outside of any known Copris species group. 
4010010|Third to sixth instar larvae of the aquatic firefly Luciola substriata swim with their ventral side up, including when they were searching for prey. When larvae were engaged in swimming, the thoracic legs sculled backwards continuously, while the abdomen could curve upward and downwards. The pygopodium located in the end of abdomen enable larvae to grasp and adhere on floating objects that also help start or cease swimming. When larvae in back-swimming changed direction, the larval abdomen curved clockwise or counterclockwise quickly and then unbent. The legs movement of larvae consists of eight different stroke patterns. The larvae averaged 1.6 strokes per sec and 0.6 wiggle of abdomen per sec. Larvae swim slowly with the speed of 0.9 m/h.
4008815|Ancognatha vexans is described as new from the mountains of Chiriqui Province in western Panama. It is distinguished from similar species, and its diagnostic characters are illustrated.
4008017|The genus Ecyrus LeConte is represented in the West Indies by a single known species, E. hirtipes Gahan. Ecyrus insularis Fisher, E. hoffmanni Fisher, E. nanus Fisher and E. flavus Fisher are reduced to synonymy. A redescription of the species with discussion of the variation, range, and nomenclatural history is provided.
4009111|Dasycerus bicolor, a maculate, apterous species of the family Staphylinidae, is described. These mycophilus beetles are restricted to endemic forests of some high elevation areas in the Blue Ridge and Great Smoky Mountains where the species now may be threatened by the precipitous, anthropogenic decline of Fraser firs, Abies fraseri (Pursh) Poiret.
3999849|The larva of Pterogenius nietneri Candeze and the larva and pupa of Histanocerus pubescens Motschulsky are described. The family Pterogeniidae is characterized on the basis of adult and larva. The Pterogeniidae are reviewed, with keys and descriptions of new species. A discussion is presented of some of the major adult and larval characters used in the classification of Heteromera, and comments are made on the major lineages. The phylogenetic position of the Pterogeniidae is discussed. The following species are described as new: Pterogenius besucheti, Histanocerus fleaglei, H. minutus, and H. werneri. The following new combinations are made: Histanocerus abnormis (Gebien) and H. drescheri (Pic).
4009859| The larva and pupa of Plagiodera erythroptera Blanchard are described and illustrated. Morphological change in the course of larval growth and some biological notes are also given. The immature stages of this species closely resemble those of Plagiodera versicolora (Laicharting) but differ in the color pattern and the number of setae of the head and thorax. /// Se describen e ilustran la larva y pupa de Plagiodera erythroptera Blanchard. Se presentan tambin los cambios morfolgicos que se desarrollan durante el crecimiento larval y algunas notas biolgicas. Los estados inmaduros de esta especie se asemejan a los de Plagiodera versicolora (Laicharting) pero difieren por el patrn de coloracin y el nmero de setas de la cabeza y el trax. 
4008343|Four new species of Coenonycha are described: Coenonycha santacruzae Evans, Coenonycha ochreata Evans, and Coenonycha dimorpha Evans from California and Coenonycha pygmaea Smith from Nevada. Biological notes are included for these species. An illustrated key to all the species of Coenonycha is presented.
4008878|The morphology of final and first instars of the larvae of Bruchidius atrolineatus (Pic) is illustrated and described. Structures described for final instar include enface view, antenna, clypeolabrum, epipharynx, mandible, maxilla, labium, spiracle, and leg. First instar structures described include head capsule, frons, gena, clypeolabrum, mandible, antenna, prothoracic plate, prothoracic chaetotaxy, spiracles, legs, and abdominal chaetotaxy. The clypeolabrum, antenna, and leg of the final instar, as well as the leg and prothoracic plate of the first instar are redescribed. Significant characters are indicated for final and first instar larvae. Relationships between this species and others within the subfamily Bruchinae based on larval characteristics are discussed.
4010042|The larval stages of the Neotropical species Derallus paranensis Oliva, 1981 and Hemiosus dejeanii (Solier, 1849) are described and figured for the first time. Notes on the bionomics of these two species are included. Larvae of D. paranensis and H. dejeanii are compared to those of other Derallus Sharp and Hemiosus Sharp species. Comparative notes to differentiate larvae of two genera related to Derallus, Allocotocerus Kraatz and Regimbartia Zaitzev are provided.
4008827| A rearing method is described for the anobiid beetle, Falsogastrallus sauteri Pic. A special rearing container and an artificial diet were developed. Results at 23C show that this species reared by our method is able to complete its life cycle; adults mate, eggs are laid and hatch, and larvae develop to the imago. A number of individuals of known age can be supplied for research purposes. It is suggested that there is no significant difference in growth and development of the beetle between natural and the artificial diets. At room temperatures the beetle, reared by the same method but on the artificial diet only, is univoltine in Chongqing, China. Adults are found between late April and late June, eggs between mid-May and late July, larvae between late May and late April of the next year, and pupae between early March and early June. The number of larval instars varied from 4 to 12. The beetle overwinters as larvae of the last instar. 
4009605|Lucanus elaphus is reported from Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa (New State Record), Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana (New State Record), Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota (New State Record), Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska (New State Record), North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Ontario, Pennsylvania (New State Record), South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia (New State Record).
4009038|The egg, third instar larva and pupa of Platydracus tomentosus (Gravenhorst) are described, the illustrations of structural features are provided. Both adults and larvae live immediately next to rivers and ponds in Nebraska. The species appears to have a univoltine life cycle. Larval rearing techniques are described and data presented on growth of immatures.
40664380|We examined the reproductive systems, including genitalia, of 10 species of Geotrupini from Mexico. Females of all examined species have six ovarioles in each ovary. Spermathecae and genitalia of all species are similar. The genital plates show marked morphological differences at the species level, and thus may be useful as specific characters in taxonomic studies. Males of all of the examined species have six follicles per testicle. The aedeagus is variable across species and is used to distinguish species.
3999527|Brumus blumi Nunenmacher is transferred to Brumoides; Exochomus mormonicus Casey is treated as a synonym of E. aethiops (Bland); and Exochomus townsendi Casey is recorded for the first time from the United States. Exochomus decemnotatus and E. minutus are described as new.
3999413|The original spelling for the subgenus Arpeleodes (of the genus Eleodes) is corrected to now read Ardeleodes. Eleodes bryanti Blaisdell and E. palmerleensis Blaisdell are synonymized under E. beameri Blaisdell. Relationships are discussed between the subgenera Holeleodes, Steneleodes, and Metablapylis, but judgement is reserved until several Mexican species can be compared.
4008660|The species Acanthoscelides andrewsi (Mexico), A. aureoliaster (Mexico), A. comstocki (Texas), A. guatemala (Guatemala, Mexico), A. hespenheidei (Costa Rica), and A. zacatlan (Mexico) are described as new. Acanthoscelides comstocki feeds in the seeds of the legume genus Eysenhardtia, A. hespenheidei feeds in the seeds of another legume genus, Stryphnodendron, and A. guatemala feeds in the seeds of the genus Chiranthodendron in the family Sterculiaceae.
3999840|Thirty species of Cerambycidae have been reared from Virginia pine in Blacksburg, Virginia; of these, 20 have not been previously recorded from pine.
4008250|Brood care behaviour is reported to occur in Pterostichus (Monoferonia) diligendus Chaudoir. It is the first report of such behaviour for a North American Carabidae.
27571095|The morphology of sternite VIII as well as that of the spermatheca of the females of Dendroctonus frontalis (Zimmermann) and D. mexicanus (Hopkins) is presented, and these structures are proposed, for the first time, as an alternative for the identification of these species. The main characteristic of sternite VIII is the shape and sclerotization of their central ridge, more sclerotized and with better defined borders in D. mexicanus. As for spermathecae, the most useful characteristic is their internal ornamentation which in D. frontalis covers the posterior half of the capsule and has twice as many traverse grooves as in D. mexicanus, where the grooves are more spaced and only cover the posterior third.
4007994| At least 10 species of subgenus Bembidionetolitzkya Strand (genus Bembidion) are known from the Caucasus; three of these were described by M. de Chaudoir. While the independence of B. peliopterum Chaudoir, 1850, was not doubted, taxonomic status of B. gotschii Chaudoir, 1846 and B. cyaneum Chaudoir, 1846 is disputed to date. Based on examination of male genitalia and type specimens in the Musum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, B. cyaneum and B. gotschii are independent species, confirming that Chaudoir's taxonomic interpretation was correct. 
4543026|A new species of May beetle from the United States, Phyllophaga nebulosa, new species, is described from the North Carolina Cape Fear River Basin. This species is part of the P. fraterna species complex and is recognized by the distinctive male and female genitalia.
4008306|Halecia cocosae sp. n. from Cocos Island, Costa Rica, is described, illustrated and discussed in context with others from Central and northern South America. A short discussion, diagnosis and key to the related genera in the tribe Chalcophorini is included.
40983318|The genus Pseudoliogenys Moser is reviewed and placed in the tribe Diplotaxini based on morphological characters. Liogenys bidentula Fairmaire is transferred to the genus Pseudoliogenys, with Pseudoliogenys flavida Moser as a junior synonym (new synonymy). Lectotypes are designated for both names. The gender of the genus Pseudoliogenys is clarified as feminine for the purposes of nomenclature.
4009049| Adults of Carabus nemoralis Mueller and Scaphinotus marginatus Fischer were tested for orientation to mucus trails of the slug Deroceras reticulatum (Mller) and earthworms using an X-shaped orientation chamber. In early June, C. nemoralis females oriented to both slug and earthworm mucus, whereas males only oriented to earthworm mucus. Orientation disappeared in both sexes by late June. Brushing palpi and antennae with glycerol did not block orientation to earthworm mucus in C. nemoralis females. Variability in orientation may be driven by seasonal activity patterns, reproductive condition, or behavior modification during experiments caused by carbon dioxide anesthesia. Scaphinotus marginatus did not orient to either mucus type. It is unclear if sensilla on the palpi of these carabid species function in detection of mucus trails. 
29739211|Hemipyxis yui Lee and Staines, new species, is described and its allied species, H. quadrimaculata (Jacoby, 1892), is redescribed. Male and female reproductive systems are illustrated in detail.
4009999|A new species, Poophylax villosa, previously noted from subfossil deposits but not formally described, is described and illustrated from the Falkland Islands. Poophylax falklandica Champion, the type species of the formerly monotypic genus Poophylax, is re-examined and compared with the new species. Distinguishing features are given. Poophylax falklandica is recorded from South America for the first time.
4008287| The type series of the staphylinid species in the tribes Athetini and Oxypodini described by Mannerheim (1843, 1846) and Mklin (1852, 1853) from northwestern North America were studied. Lectotypes were designated for the following species (with the current generic names in parentheses): Homalota maritima Mannerheim (Adota), H. picipennis Mannerheim (Dimetrota), Stonalota granulata Mannerheim (Atheta), Tachyusa fucicola Mklin (Tarphiota), H. laevicollis Mklin (Philhygra), H. cursor Mklin (Atheta (Xenota)), H. nitens Mklin (Liogluta), H. moesta Mklin (Dimetrota), H. pratensis Mklin (Atheta (Xenota)), H. geniculata Mklin (Tarphiota), H. planaris Mklin (Dinaraea), H. breviuscula Mklin (Atheta (Mocyta)), Myrmedonia angularis Mklin (Lypoglossa), H. comparabilis Mklin (Adota), H. litoralis Mklin (Emplenota), H. vasta Mklin (Liogluta), and Oxypoda irrasa Mklin (Oxypoda). Three new generic synonymies are proposed: Panalota Casey, a synonym of Adota Casey, Pseudomegista Bernhauer of Liogluta Thomson, and Megacrotona Scheerpeltz of Lypoglossa Fenyes. Five new specific synonymies are proposed: Adota massetensis Casey, a synonym of Adota maritima (Mannerheim), Dimetrota carlottae Casey of Dimetrota picipennis (Mannerheim), Atheta maeklini Fenyes of Dimetrota moesta (Mklin), Tarphiota insolita Casey of Tarphiota geniculata (Mklin), and Acrotona prudens Casey of Atheta (Mocyta) breviuscula (Mklin). Three new combinations are given: Liogluta nigropolita (Bernhauer) (from Pseudomegista), Boreophilia nomensis (Casey) (from Dinaraea), and Lypoglossa lateralis (Mannerheim) (from Megacrotona). 
4008625| A community of 29 species of scavenging, seed-feeding, and predacious beetles is supported by the oil bird in Cueva del Gucharo, Venezuela. We report 21 species as new for this cave. 
4010063|We present records of 45 beetle species previously unrecorded from the state of Rhode Island, U.S.A., six of which appear to be new to New England. One family, the Cupedidae, is herein first reported from the state of Rhode Island. Newly reported from the state are the species Agonum mutatum (Gemminger & Harold) (Carabidae) and Tricrania sanguinipennis (Say) (Meloidae) which are listed on the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection list of protected species and the 1999 Massachusetts Invertebrate Watch List, respectively. In addition, two carabid species are confirmed extant in RI that are also present on the Massachusetts Watch list, Blethisa quadricollis Haldeman and Agonum darlingtoni Lindroth, known previously in RI from historic records only. These additions bring the total beetle species count for the state of Rhode Island (2,707 km
4008171|The male major of Blackburnium harslettae Howden is described for the first time and compared to the closely related Blackburnium triceratops Howden.
3999513|Prior to pupation, the larva of C. terminale attaches its caudal end in a vertical position to a suitable substrate. The larval cuticle splits along the dorsolateral margins and the pupa remains within the exuvium. Duration of the pupal stage is 1 week.
40983303|A revision of the genus Anthonaeus Horn is provided as the initial step of a multiphase project to completely revise the entire New World Kateretidae fauna. Anthonaeus, a previously monospecific genus of short-winged flower beetles, was formerly known from the type species Anthonaeus agavensis (Crotch). This species is a specialist on flowers of Hesperoyucca (Engelm.) Baker (Agavaceae) in southern California, USA. Anthonaeus bajaensis, new species, is described from Baja California, Mexico, and a redescription of A. agavensis is provided for comparative morphology. The larva of A. agavensis is described for the first time and the relationship of Anthonaeus to other New and Old World Kateretidae genera is discussed in the context of both larval and adult morphology. Como primer paso de un proyecto que contempla la revisin completa de la fauna de Kateretidae del Nuevo Mundo, en el presente trabajo se proporciona una revisin del gnero Anthonaeus Horn. Anthonaeus, un gnero inicialmente monospecfico de colepteros braqupteros florcolas, fue definido por la especie tipo, Anthonaeus agavensis (Crotch). Esta especie se especializa en las flores de Hesperoyucca (Engelm.) Baker (Agavaceae) en el sur de California, EEUU. Se describe Anthonaeus bajaensis, nueva especie, de Baja California, Mxico, y se redescribe A. agavensis, comparndola con la nueva especie. Se describe por primera vez la larva de A. agavensis y se discute la relacin de Anthonaeus con otros gneros de Kateretidae del Nuevo y Viejo Mundo, en el contexto de la morfologa larvaria y la del adulto.
3999998|The third instar larva of Enceladus gigas Bonelli is described and illustrated. Its relationship with Siagona (Siagonini) is discussed. Both larval and adult structural features indicate clear relationship between the two groups, yet at the same time show enough divergence to support tribal ranking for both with our present concept of that category. Structural features of the mesotibia of members of the following taxa are discussed: Amphizoidae, Apotomini, Bembidiini, Brachinini, Carabini, Cicindelinae, Crepidogastrini, Cychrini, Cymbionotini, Elaphrini, Enceladini, Hiletini, Loricerini, Melaenini, Metriini, Migadopini, Nebriini, Omophronini, Opisthiini, Ozaenini, Patrobini, Promecognathini, Psydrini, Scaritini, Siagonini, Trechini. The distribution of these mesotibial characteristics is given and the potential impact on our knowledge of carabid phylogeny is noted, although formal changes in classification are not made at this time; except that Cymbionotum, formerly regarded as the single genus of Cymbionotini is here included in the Siagonini.
4007934| Solenogenys funkei is newly described from the Central Amazon/Brazil and interpolated in a revised key for the genus. Solenogenys now includes 3 species: S. foeda Westwood, S. thomsoni Reichardt, and S. funkei Adis. Generic diagnosis and taxonomic discussion are based on surface structure studies of cleaned specimens and genitalic comparisons. Structures of male and female genitalia indicate that the polarity of the transformation series seems to go from S. funkei via S. foeda to S. thomsoni. Lectotypes are designated for S. foeda Westwood 1858 (senior synonym of Aulacinia rhysodoides Thomson 1858), with a discussion of nomenclature and discovered type specimens. S. funkei and S. thomsoni are known only from one locality each, in the Central Amazon and Mato Grosso, respectively. S. foeda was collected by H. W. Bates between Belm and Tef along Rio Amazonas and Rio Solimes. The microhabitat of Solenogenys members is unknown. Specimens are normally covered with a deposit of mud. The tough exoskeleton, together with retractable head appendages, is similar to that in "known" myrmecophilous species (Carabidae, Scarabaeidae, Tenebrionidae) and may indicate living with ants. 
4009573|Egidyella arcana Beal and Zhantiev, new species is described from an area adjacent to sand dunes in Kern County, California. It is compared with the only other known species in the genus, E. prophetea Reitter, which occurs in Central Asia. New definitions are provided for the genus and for the tribe Attagenini.
4008554|Discussions of the distribution of Cymindis unicolor Kirby have left the impression that the species is not to be found in the Pacific States of the United States. Numerous records exist for the species in Washington, Oregon, and California, and there is a singular record for Arizona. These are presented here with a map showing the distribution of this species in these states and in adjacent British Columbia.
4009530|The taxa of Curculio L. found in China are segregated into seven groups based on simple morphological characteristics and a key to the first groups, Curculio robustus Roelofs, Curculio flavescens (Roelofs) and the remaining five groups of Curculio from China are presented. Descriptions are included of the following taxa: Curculio beverlyae, new species, Curculio vivianae, new species, Curculio cristinae, new species, and Curculio fausti, new species. Redescriptions are provided of Curculio deceptor panthaicus (Heller), Curculio flavescens (Roelofs) and Curculio robustus (Roelofs). Curculio funebris (Roelofs) = Curculio shaowuensis Voss, is synonymized (New Synonomy). Type specimens are deposited in the Institute of Zoology, Academia Sinica, Beijing, China.
4008311|A survey of the beetle fauna associated with the flowers of wild carrot (Daucus carota L.) (Apiaceae) was conducted from 1977 through 1981 in northern Mississippi. Ninetytwo species representing 21 families were collected. Species occurring in the greatest numbers were Chauliognathus marginatus F. (Cantharidae), Mordella attrata Melsheimer and M. marginata Melsheimer (Mordellidae), Trigonopeltastes delta (Forster) (Scarabaeidae) and Centrinaspis picumnus (Herbst) (Curculionidae). Diabrotica undecimpunctata howardi Barber was the only crop pest encountered. The only predators commonly collected were coccinellids, and gut content analysis indicated they were using the plant (pollen) as a food source.
4009414| A description of the Hypotyphlus huetei, new species, is presented followed by the proposal to change the Microtyphlus guadarramus Ehlers to Hypotyphlus Jeannel as H. guadarramus (Ehlers), new combination. These species form a group of Hypotyphlus which differs considerably from congeneric groups. /// Se describe Hypotyphlus huetei, especie nueva, y se propone el paso de Microtyphlus guadarramus Ehlers a Hypotyphlus Jeannel como H. guadarramus (Ehlers), nueva combinacin. Estas especies constituyen un grupo de Hypotyphlus bien diferenciado de sus congneres. 
4009515| Cyclocephala spangleri, new species, is described from the Venezuelan Llanos. A characterization is given to separate it from other related species, and diagnostic characters are illustrated. /// Se describe Cyclocephala spangleri, especie nueva, de los llanos de Venezuela. Se presentan los caracteres que la diferencian de otras especies relacionadas y se ilustran algunos de sus caracteres diagnsticos. 
4008010|Two new generic synonymies are proposed Apheloplastus Brown = Zeadolopus Broun and Pseudocyrtusa Portevin = Lionothus Brown. Six Australian species originally described in Anisotoma and subsequently transferred to Leiodes are here transferred to Zeadolopus: ammophilus (Lea), bicoloriclavus (Lea), micropunctatus (Lea), myrmecophilus (Lea), tasmaniae (Olliff), and wiburdi (Lea). Brief comments on the composition and distribution of Leiodini are given.
4009010|A population of Phaleria testacea Say (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) was sampled monthly during two years at Botafogo Beach, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The age structure was characterized during the 2 years of the study. Minimal variation in the number of individuals in the larval stage indicated constant reproductive activity. The number of larval and adult specimens collected did not appear to be related to climatic factors. The pattern of population growth and the spatial variation of the area where the beetle could be found on the beach in each season of the year suggest a close relationship with sand humidity, which was not measured. This hypothesis is based on the fact that the life area shifts gradually, getting closer to the sea water as the summer approaches and temperatures get higher. Also the abundance of food during the whole year seems to provide good conditions for the constant reproductive activity, and together these two factors might serve as a basis for P. testacea to have characteristics of a K-strategist insect.
4009268| Examination of the types and comparason of the male genitalic and other morphological characters of Balzanica Bechyn, Disonycha Chevrolat and Phenrica Bechyn reveal that Balzanica cacoselina Bechyn, type species of the monotypic Balzanica Bechyn, is a junior synonym of Disonycha ornata Baly. /// El examen de los tipos y comparacin de la genitalia masculina y otros caracteres morfologicos de Balzanica Bechyn, Disonycha Chevrolat y Phenrica Bechyn, indican que Balzanica cacoselina Bechyn, especie tipo del gnero monotpico Balzanica Bechyn, es un sinnimo de Disonycha ornata Baly. 
4008412|Euconosoma loebli new species is described from Thailand. A key is provided to distinguish the known species of the genus.
41413636|Pseudopectinosoma Katovich, new genus, from Colombia is described and illustrated, with Pseudopectinosoma mesa Katovich, new species, as the type species. The similarly appearing South American genus Pectinosoma Arrow is redefined for comparative purposes. Pectinosoma elongatum Arrow, the type species, is redescribed in a modern sense, the female is described for the first time, and a new distribution record from Venezuela is noted.
4008125|Lectotypes are designated for the following species of Coleoptera, Buprestidae: Agaeocera anniae Obenberger, Agrilus restrictus Waterhouse, Dicerca subcuprea Casey, D. longipennis Casey, D. pisciformis Casey, D. pisciformis longicauda Casey, D. floridae Casey, D. levettei Casey, D. porcatula Casey, D. montana Casey, Haplostethus robusts (Schaeffer), Polycesta porcata (Fabricius), and P. thomae Chevrolat. The lectotypes of P. porcata and P. thomae are redescribed. A neotype is designated for Dicerca subcuprea pertinax Casey, and holotypes are verified for Acmaeodera quadrivittata Horn, Dicerca cupreola Casey, D. cupreola filiola Casey, Phaenops aeneola (Melsheimer), and P. metallica (Melsheimer). The current European concept of subgenera in the genus Anthaxia Eschscholtz is applied to the North American fauna. The following new synonymies are indicated: Agaeocera anniae Obenberger = A. gigas Waterhouse; Euanthaxia Richter, Cyclanthaxia Richter, Callanthaxia Richter, Trichocratomerus Richter = Anthaxia (s. str.); Cratomerella Richter, Crysanthaxia Richter, Cryptanthaxia Richter, Mesanthaxia Richter, and Cryptocratomerus Richter = Anthaxia (Haplanthaxia) Reitter; Anthaxia (Melanthaxia) expansa LeConte, and A. (M.) foveicollis LeConte = A. (M.) inornata Randall; Dicerca subcuprea pertinax Casey = D. tenebrica (Kirby); and Haplostethus knulli (Obenberger) = H. crenulatus (Knull). Synonymical verifications are presented for Phaenops abies (Champlain and Knull), P. aeneola (Melsheimer), and Spectralia robusta (Chamberlin). A key to the species of the genus Haplostethus LeConte is presented, and the following species are here newly placed in that genus: antennatus (Cazier), castlei (Champlain & Knull), crenulatus (Knull), impressipennis (Fall), puncticollis (Schaeffer), and robustus (Schaeffer).
4009746|Cotalpa conclamara Young, new species, is described from specimens taken on Quercus stellata Wangenheim and at UV light in eastern Texas. The holotype and certain identifying characters are illustrated, and a key to the species of Cotalpa Burmeister is provided. A new country record is given for C. consobrina, new state record for C. subcribrata and new state and Canadian provincial records for C. lanigera.
3999864|The ranges and Virginia records for 13 species are presented. Ten species are strictly in the southwestern section, 2 are in the western mountains and 1 is common to both areas of the state.
4010065|Fifty years ago, "The Coleopterists Bulletin" featured a series of articles on beetles and their interactions with the plant genus Toxicodendron P. Mill. section Toxicodendron (the poison ivies and poison oaks). Subsequent to the series, little progress has been made towards a better understanding of these relationships. The present work uses both original observations from field studies as well as a historical review of previous data to synthesize a more robust picture of coleopteran-Toxicodendron relationships. In addition to enumerating previously unrecognized associations, this paper demonstrates that numerous coleopteran taxa interact with Toxicodendron spp. in both mutualistic and parasitic capacities.
4008124|Attelabus fossor (Linnaeus) sensu Degeer, long listed as a junior synonym of Scarites subterraneus Fabricius, is a misidentification of material from Surinam as Tenebrio fossor Linnaeus 1758. Examination of material from Degeer's collection shows that Attelabus fossor (Linnaeus) sensu Degeer is synonymous with Scarites orientalis Bonelli, not with Scarites subterraneus Fabricius.
4008978| Omorgus mictlensis, new species, from the State of Puebla in central Mexico, is described, illustrated and compared with its nearest relative, O. scutellaris (Say). /// Se describe e ilustra Omorgus mictlensis, n. sp., proveniente del Estado de Puebla en el centro de Mxico, y se compara con su especie hermana, O. scutellaris (Say). 
41314168|The five species of Phileurus Latreille with quadridentate protibiae are reviewed and placed in a key for identification. One new species, Phileurus zonianis Ratcliffe, from Panama is described and illustrated.
4009863| Detailed description of the second instar larva and pupa, comparative comments on the third instar and first instar larvae, and some observations on the adult behavior and the life cycle of Neoscelis dohrni (Westwood) are presented. Diagnostic structures are illustrated, and a key to the known third instar larvae of Goliathini from the world is included. /// Se presenta la descripcin detallada de la larva de segundo estadio y la pupa de Neoscelis dohrni (Westwood), comentarios comparativos con las larvas de tercero y primer estadio y algunas observaciones sobre la conducta de los adultos y de su ciclo de vida. Se incluyen ilustraciones de las estructuras diagnsticas, y una clave para separar las larvas de tercer estadio de Goliathini conocidas en el mundo. 
4000160| Stethorus histrio Chazeau is recorded from Chile; Stethorus sicardi Brthes is transferred to the genus Scymnus, subgenus Pullus; and the mite feeding habits of members of Stethorus are discussed. The larva of S. histrio is described and compared with the larvae of other Stethorus species. 
27571094|The formerly monotypic genus Panopides Pascoe is revised to include two species from Sulawesi and one from the Philippines. The genus and its type species, P. anticus Pascoe, are redescribed. Panopides philippinicus (Heller) new combination is transferred from Asytesta Pascoe and is also redescribed. Lectotypes are designated for both species. A new species from Central Sulawesi, P. riedeli Setliff new species, is described. All species are diagnosed and illustrated and male characters are described and illustrated for the first time. A new generic group of Indo-Australian crowned weevils is proposed and four genera, Asytesta Pascoe, Cyamomistus Heller, Nothotragopus Zimmerman (new placement), and Panopides placed therein.
3999941|The Palaearctic species Leistus ferrugineus (L.) is recorded from North America for the first time, from St. John's, Newfoundland. Distinguishing characteristics of the species are described and illustrated.
4009322|A new species, Metophthalmus rileyi, is described from south-central Texas. It is compared to the closely related M. sandersoni Andrews and M. americanus Motschulsky. Distributional information is provided for M. sandersoni and M. americanus.
3999940|The life cycle of Dectes sayi Dillon and Dillon, a cerambycid associate of common ragweed, Ambrosia artemisiifolia L., is discussed. Adults began appearing in early July with peak populations emerging in mid-August. Eggs are deposited singly in the pith of primary and secondary stems. First to fourth instars bore into and feed upon the pith from late July to late October. Mature or nearly mature larvae overwinter in a diapause state within a specially prepared chamber located in the rootcrown area of the stem. Pupation occurred during mid-summer within the chamber. The beetle is univoltine in northeastern Ohio. Diagnostic descriptions and/or illustrations of the immature stages are provided.
3999972|Holotype and Lectotype designations are made for 26 species of Carabidae described by Thomas L. Casey in the tribe Pterostichini and in the following genera: Gastrosticta, Lophoglossus, Loxandrus, Pterostichus, Poecilus. The male genitalia of species for which figures have not been previously published are presented.
4009996|Two new species, Colon (Myloechus) koreanus new species (type locality--Mt. Odaesan, Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon Prov., Korea) and C. (M.) shini new species (type locality--Mt. Odaesan, Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon Prov., Korea), of the genus Colon Herbst are described from Korea and Japan. Types and paratypes of the new species are designated. The subfamily Coloninae and the genus Colon are reported for the first time in Korea. Colon (Myloechus) shini is the eighth species recorded from Japan. A key to the species of Colon in Korea and Japan, and illustrations of diagnostic features of the two new species are presented.
4008325|Agrilus patagoniensis Knull is synonymized under A. ometauhtli Fisher; Chrysobothris verdevallis Fisher is synonymized under C. smaragdula Fall; the males of Agrilus geronimoi Knull and A. toxotes Obenberger are described and the female of the latter is redescribed; the female of Chrysobothris kelloggi Knull is described; and Agrilus modicus Solier is designated as the type species of the genus Paragrilus.
3999930|The Nearctic genus Benedictia is here assigned to the subfamily Melolonthinae, tribe Pachydemini, and is regarded as most closely related to Neotropical members of that tribe.
4008025|A list is presented of the beetles found in or near the nests of three Californian species of Pogonomyrmex harvester ants: P. montanus, P. subnitidus, and P. rugosus. The following families and genera of beetles were collected: Carabidae -- Amara, Notiophilus; Coccinellidae -- Scymnus; Elateridae -- Cardiophorus; Histeridae -- Hetaerius, Onthophilus; Leiodidae -- Echinocoleus, Ptomaphagus; Melyridae -- Endasytes, Trichochrous; Scarabaeidae -- Cremastocheilus, Paracotalpa; Tenebrionidae -- Alaudes, Anepsius, Blapstinus, Conibius, Metoponium, Notibius. The tenebrionids were first in numbers of species, the histerids were second, the scarabaeids third. The other families were represented by few species. Only histerids were associated with all three ant species. Approximately equal numbers of families and species of beetles were associated with each of the three ant species, although the family and species compositions were quite different. The faunas associated with P. montanus and P. rugosus have very little in common, whereas each clearly overlaps with the fauna of altitudinally intermediate P. subnitidus.
4008318|Xenochroma tibialis is described from Costa Rica and figured. Five South American species are recorded, extending their range northward into Panama: Callichroma viridipes Bates; Xystochroma chloropa (Bates), which is reassigned from Mionochroma; Xystochroma clypeatum (Schwarzer), also Costa Rica; Xystochroma bouvieri (Gounelle); and Mionochroma wilkei (Schmidt). A key to the genera of Callichromatini from Mexico and Central America is provided.
3999735|Mystrops gilloglyi n. sp. (Nitidulidae), from Pernambuco, Brazil is described and illustrated. This Neotropical genus contains 19 described species, of which 5, including M. gilloglyi, are associated with palms.
41314180|Mature larvae of Pissodes yunnanensis Langor and Zhang and Pissodes punctatus Langor and Zhang are described and external morphology illustrated. Differences between Chinese and North American species are discussed in light of previous taxonomic and phylogenetic work.
4008335|New distribution data for eight Nearctic species of the genus Myllaena Erichson are presented and discussed. The following are the new state and provincial records: M. arcana Casey (Tennessee), M. audax Casey (Alaska, Georgia), M. cuneata Klimaszewski (Arkansas, Georgia, Tennessee), M. currax Notman (Arkansas), M. ludificans Casey (Arkansas), M. seminole Klimaszewski (Arkansas) and M. vulpina Bernhauer (Arkansas, Kentucky, Ontario). Additional distributional data, though not the first for either region, are provided for M. insomnis Casey (Alaska, Northwest Territories). Whenever available new collection data are also added.
4009666|The exotic creeper Macfadyena unguis-cati (L.) Gentry (Bignoniaceae) which was introduced into South Africa as an ornamental, is now in the early stages of invasion. Natural forests are particularly at risk and woodlands, plantations, orchards and disturbed areas are also invaded. The weed forms thick carpets that smother forest floors and canopies, killing canopy trees and understorey plants. Mechanical and chemical control methods are impractical and the weed was thus targeted for biological control. In 1996, a leaf-feeding tortoise beetle, Charidotis auroguttata (Boheman 1855), was introduced from Venezuela. Following routine screening in quarantine, permission for the release of C. auroguttata was granted in autumn 1999.
4000044|The third instar larva and pupa of Strategus syphax (Fabr.) are described, and a key is presented for the known larvae of the genus Strategus.
3999608|African Stenus from the U.S. National Museum of Natural History are studied and cited; 5 taxa are described as new: Stenus obconicus malawianus, Stenus spangleri, Stenus callens, Stenus spinicollis, and Stenus cooki.
4009361|The following changes in North American scydmaenid taxonomy are proposed:1) Taphroscydmus Casey is elevated to generic rank, 2) Papusus Casey is removed from synonymy with Leptochromus Motschulsky, 3) Ascydmus Casey and Euthiodes Brendel are placed as junior synonyms of Euthiconus Reitter and a lectotype specimen is designated for Ascydmus tener Casey, 4) Neladius Casey is removed from synonymy with Delius Casey and placed as a subgenus of Microscydmus Saulcy and Croissandeau, and Microscydmus caseyi O'Keefe is proposed as a replacement name for M. atomus (Casey), a junior homonym of M. atomus (Reitter), 5) Smicrophus Casey is placed as a subgenus of Euconnus, S. leviceps Casey is designated as the type species for Smicrophus, and a lectotype specimen is designated for S. leviceps, 6) Noctophus Casey and 7) Drastophus Casey are removed from synonymy with Euconnus Thomson and placed as subgenera of Euconnus, 8) Xestophus Casey is removed from synonymy with Psomophus Casey and placed as a subgenus of Euconnus. In addition, new combinations are listed due to the elevation of Cheloniodum Strand, Brachycepsis Brendel, and Parascydmus Casey to generic rank, the placement of Acholerops Casey as a junior synonym of Scydmaenus Latreille, and the placement of Opresus Casey as a junior synonym of Microscydmus. Connophron Casey is considered a junior synonym of Napochus Thomson.
4000033|The basic taxonomy, phylogeny, and biogeography of the 5 genera assigned to the pterostichin subtribe Myadi are discussed. One new genus Neomyas and 1 new species N. lindrothi, both endemic to North America, are described. Taxonomic keys are given for all genera, for 5 of the 6 known species of the Asian genus Aristochroa, and for the species in the genera Myas (Europe) and Neomyas. Five of the species in the genus Aristochroa are redescribed and lectotypes are designated for the species A. gratiosa Tschit., A. casta Tschit., and A. kaznakovi Tschit. The biogeography of the subtribe is explained in terms of continental drift and vicariance biogeography.
3999739|A generic summary (morphology and distribution) is presented for the following 3 genera of Osoriinae: Osorius, Neotrochus, and Fenderia.
4009076|Three new species, Acmaeodera quadrivittatoides, Acmaeodera navajo, and Acmaeodera tildenorum from the southwestern U.S.A. and Mexico, are described, figured and discussed in detail. The importance of the protarsal claw in distinguishing sexes of the Acmaeodera quadrivittata Horn group is discussed.
4009146|Members of the monogeneric staphylinid subfamily Oxyporinae are adapted through various morphological and behavioral modifications for the exploitation of an ephemeral, heterogeneous, and irregularly occurring mushroom habitat. The principal morphological adaptations of species of Oxyporus involve modifications of the mandibles of adults and larvae; labial palpi and labrum of adults; and maxillae of larvae. Species of Oxyporus have a short developmental time to exploit this habitat. Parental care (subsociality) is displayed as an adaptation to avoid predation and/or parasitism on larvae thus increasing survival of the larvae. Five patterns of host selection within the Oxyporinae are proposed: 1) overall host selection broad with a moderately broad subset of preference; 2) overall host selection moderately broad with a relatively narrow subset of preference; 3) overall host selection relatively narrow with a well defined subset of preference; 4) overall host selection relatively narrow with no defined subset of preference; and 5) host selection is species specific. Known fungal hosts for New World species of Oxyporus are given.
3999713|Natural history data can be computerized to aid the systematics researcher by rearranging data for synthesis and analysis and in preparation of manuscripts. This paper describes the processes of data capture in the field and the work flow procedures to get this data onto computer readable magnetic tape and into a data bank. Field note standardized format is exemplified and discussed. Sixty-two data categories (data elements) are defined and discussed. This system was designed for use in a Central American Ground Beetle Faunal Study (Coleoptera: Carabidae), but can easily be adapted to other organisms. SELGEM, a general purpose information management system, is used. The data resources for the Faunal Study are field notes, specimen labels, specimens, and literature; the processes of literature data capture will be described elsewhere.
3999606|Chrysobothris barri n. sp., occurring from central Nevada to southern California, is described, and considerable detail is given to variation and comparison with the closely related C. ludificata Horn.
27571141|An updated list of 79 species of Coccinellidae for South Dakota is presented. The list represents a net increase in the state coccinellid fauna from a previously published list of 66 species and subspecific taxa, and it also includes nomenclatural updates. Thirteen species have been added to the list as new state records: Didion punctatum (Melsheimer), Didion nanum (LeConte), Scymnus paracanus linearis Gordon, Scymnus fraternus LeConte, Hyperaspis inflexa Casey, Hyperaspis lugubris (Randall), Hyperaspis troglodytes Mulsant, Hyperaspis brunnescens Dobzhansky, Hyperaspis quadrivittata LeConte, Brachiacantha decempustulata (Melsheimer), Brumoides septentrionis septentrionis (Weise), Hippodamia expurgata Casey, and Hippodamia sinuata crotchi Casey. Two specimens of Coccinella septempunctata L., collected in 1978 represent a new state record of this species from South Dakota. Eight other species were added after reviewing previously published species records and faunal distribution maps. Several entries were deleted from the list based on synonymies. Four others were deleted because of dubious collection records, and one because of misidentification. Comments on recent collection records for adventive and declining native species of coccinellids are also presented. One C. transversoguttata richardsoni Brown from 2006 represents the only known specimen of this species curated since 1979, and one of a few individuals recorded in South Dakota since abundance declined after establishment of C. septempunctata.
4009681|Four new species of Ptomaphagus Illiger (Ptomaphagini) are described from Costa Rica and Panama: Ptomaphagus (Tupania) costarica new species, Ptomaphagus (Adelops) inbio new species, Ptomaphagus (Adelops) nubloso new species, and Ptomaphagus (Adelops) costanama new species.
3999881|Pliny the Elder (A.D. 23-79) is famous for his wide-ranging "Natural History". Included among the fauna are 14 species of Coleoptera. Especially interesting are 3 species in the subfamily Lyttinae.
3999914|Platynus (Rhadine) jonesi (Barr) is recorded from Florida for the first time. Also included is a list of other Carabidae collected at the same locality.
3999396|Bionomics of Merobruchus julianus. A unique method of attachment of bruchid eggs to immature seed pods was observed when Merobruchus julianus attack the seeds of Acacia greggii. The eggs are attached by thin filaments which apparently allow the egg to remain in position while the growing pod expands. In addition, it was observed that adult females oviposit only on immature seed pods; a period of about 60 days is necessary for development of M. julianus from egg to adult; these bruchids destroy from 0.7% to 4.6% of the seeds of A. greggii; and the hymenopterans Eupelmus cushmani and Urosigalphus bruchi parasitize the immature stages of M. julianus. When compared to an earlier report of the bionomics of this bruchid species attacking the seeds of Acacia berlandieri, it was found that the habits differ in that a single larva of M. julianus is known to destroy only a single seed; the larvae produce little, if any, glue-like substance; and a smaller adult size is reached when they develop in the seeds of A. greggii.
4009294|The subgenus Parunxia Napp (of Unxia Thomson), type species Parunxia scopifera (Klug), new combination, is raised to generic status. Mimochariergus fluminensis, new species, is described from Brazil (Rio de Janeiro). Stenochariergus Giesbert and Hovore is transferred to the Rhinotragini.
4010006|The total network of Finnish forest roads has increased from a few hundred km in 1950 to currently over 120,000 km, but the ecological consequences of that process on invertebrates are poorly understood. I pitfall-trapped carabid beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae) at roadsides and in adjacent forests along six forest roads in Finland. I carried out two studies on whether roads function as obstacles to the movement of forest carabids, or dispersal corridors for generalist and open-habitat species. In addition to these two studies, I compiled carabid observations from national entomologists to get an overview on carabid richness and on life-history traits associated with roadside carabids. A forest carabid Calathus micropterus (Duftschmid) was less abundant on the roadsides, compared to the adjacent forests. However, species richness and the abundance of a habitat generalist Pterostichus niger (Schaller) showed the opposite, and open-habitat species were solely caught on the roadsides. At the roadsides, generalists decreased in abundance with increasing distance to the nearest large open-habitat area along the road. This result may indicate that roadsides are dispersal corridors and/or "sink" habitat for these carabids. I did not detect such a trend for open-habitat species, which may indicate that roadsides are habitats, not just dispersal corridors for these carabids. Multivariate Regression Trees showed that the roadside and forest carabid assemblages were different. Forest type played a key role in shaping carabid assemblages of forests, whereas roadside carabid assemblages were mostly affected by factors related to lighting conditions (road width, proximity of open habitat, and compass direction). I caught several forest carabids between the ruts of forest roads, indicating that these beetles frequently cross forest roads. The 97 carabid species found by Finnish entomologists from different kinds of roadsides, reported here, indicate that roadsides host rich carabid assemblages of relatively common species mostly associated with open and man-made habitats.
4009112|Six new species in the buprestid genus Acmaeodera Eschscholtz are described and illustrated from Mexico as follows: A. rubrovittata from the states of Guerrero and Puebla; A. rubroguttula from Guerrero and Michoacan; A. tenuidigna from Guerrero; A. apiata from Colima, Guerrero, Oaxaca and Puebla; A. aquila from Guerrero and Oaxaca; and A. lysilomae from Guerrero and Puebla.
4008219|A new species, Sibinia xicotencatli, from the Mexican states of Chiapas and Tlaxcala is described from specimens collected on Mimosa aculeaticarpa Ortega and M. biuncifera Bentham (Leguminosae: Mimosoideae). Apomorphic characters indicate that S. bothrosterna Clark is the sister species of the new species.
4008811|Cincindela jolyi, a new species from Venezuela in the subgenus Brasiella, Cicindela argentata species group, is described. Based on external and genitalic characters of the male and female this species is hypothesized to be the sister of C. argentata Fabricius. Distinguishing species characters are depicted.
4008075|All immature stages, eggs, larval instars, and pupa, of Exema canadensis Pierce are described and illustrated. Observations on bionomics of larvae and on larval metamorphosis are reported for the first time.
4009652|A summary of Massachusetts's records of Cerambycidae reported in the literature is presented, including our own records of 132 species from years 1999 to 2001. Altogether it represents a total of 198 species, from which 27 species collected during our study are noted from Massachusetts for the first time. Host plants for 106 species are presented, including 60 new host plant records. Host plant and biology of Hesperophanes pubescens (Haldeman) is discussed for the first time.
3999982|The final larval instars of Bruchus brachialis Fahraeus, B. pisorum (Linnaeus), and B. rufimanus Boheman are described and compared. Characters used are those of the antennae, clypeolabrum, epipharynx, mandibles, maxillae, labium, legs, spiracles, and anal sulcus.
4008988|Chrysobothris chiribiquetensis, new species, is described from Parque Nacional de Chiribiquete in southeastern Colombia.
3999834|Quedius (Megaquedius) martini spec. nov., from rodent burrows in the state of Durango, Mexico, is described and illustrated. A key to all known species of the subgenus Megaquedius Casey is given.
4008079|New biological and/or geographical distributional data are given for 18 species of Buprestidae of the following genera: Acmaeodera, Acmaeoderopsis, Agrilus, Polycesta, and Trichinorhipis.
3999927|Two new species of the aquatic beetle genus Ochthebius, O. leechi and O. spanglerorum, are described from the western United States and discussed. A distribution map and figures of the pronota and male genitalia are presented.
4009059|The new genus and species Calydonella lisa and the new species Bothynocephalus thoracicus, B. foveolatus and B. ribardoi are characterized. Calydonella appears to form a clade with Mophon Champion and Elomosda Bates. Bothynocephalus Doyen appears to be most closely related to Oxidates Champion and Cnephalura (Doyen). A key is provided for the species of Bothynocephalus and the key to the MesoAmerican Coelometopini is modified to include Calydonella.
4008165|In the four decades since the publication of Parsons' (1943) revision of the nearctic Nitidulidae, 31 species have been reported that either are new or were previously described but were unrecognized in the nearctic. Names used by Parsons for 19 species have either been synonymized or changed to new combinations. The following new synonymies are reported, with the junior names parenthetic: Eupraea horni Crotch, 1879 (=E. duryi Blatchley, 1910) and Eupuraea truncatella Mannerheim, 1846 (=E. ornatula Notman, 1919).
4008273|The species of the genus Aenigmaticum Matthews are reviewed. Five species are recognized; two of them, A. mexicanum and A. prolatum, are new. Lectotypes are designated for A. californicum Casey, A. elongatum (LeConte), and A. ptilioides Matthews. The known distribution of each species is mapped, and the median lobe for each species, except A. prolatum, is figured. The taxonomic history of Aenigmaticum is outlined, and a key to the species is included. A phylogeny of this genus is presented, and the phylogenetic position of Aenigmaticum in the Corylophidae is briefly discussed.
4000020|The carabid faunas of three sites in the upland oak forest in Michigan were sampled by pitfall traps, sticky board traps, malaise traps, pyrethrum spraying, and hand collecting. The various collecting methods permitted sampling of arboreal Lebiini present in the forest, as well as of non-resident immigrant species entering the upland oak forest. The three sites in this second growth forest differ in stage of succession. The more mature stands contain carabid faunas of greater diversity and decreased dominance. This is related to increased resources and increased heterogeneity in the mature stands, allowing greater interspecific competition and more species packing.
4000099|The larvae of Platycis sculptilis (Say), found in decaying wood of a white pine (Pinus strobus L.) near Ithaca, New York, are described and illustrated. Larvae were found to move through soft wood by hydrostatic action and fed on decaying juices of the wood. Three pupae and four adults were obtained by rearing.
4008794|The Nearctic Dytiscidae resembling Potamonectes depressus (Fabricius) are revised. Types are designated as follows: a lectotype for P. depressus (F.), a neotype for P. elegans (Panzer), and a lectotype for P. rotundatus (LeConte). One new species, P. macronychus, is described. The presence of P. depressus in Canada was confirmed by morphological analysis of Nearctic material, and North American specimens previously determined as P. elegans were shown to comprise two species, P. rotundatus in the east and P. macronychus in the west. Based on iso-electrofocusing of whole beetle proteins, P. rotundatus closely resembles P. depressus and P. elegans, but has one band, focused at about pH 6.42, not found in British P. depressus and P. elegans. Experimental hybridization yielded F
3999548|This work supplements Cornell's bibliographical survey of coleopterous families by adding 53 recent references on 53 families, including several records of described families or larvae--both living and fossil--that were previously omitted.
4008726|Five new species of Agathidium from Malaysia (Malaya) are described and illustrated: Agathidium watrousi, n. sp.; A. wheeleri, n. sp.; A. pseudoscutellare, n. sp.; A. rougemonti, n. sp.; and A. pahangense, n. sp. Additional collecting data are given for four other Malayan species of Agathidium and for two Philippines species. The spermathecae of A. angelinii Cooter and A. cooteri Angelini and De Marzo are figured. A key to the species from Malaya is presented.
3999645|The Mexican Agrilus aurilatera Waterhouse is redescribed, a lectotype designated, and reported from Arizona for the first time.
3999965| The Neotropical taxon Listropus Putzeys, until now treated as a genus of the subtribe Scapterina, is reclassified as a subgenus of Schizogenius Putzeys in the subtribe Clivinina; therefore, the subtribe Scapterina is not represented in the New World. Listropus includes 7 known species arrayed in 3 species groups; these are keyed and discussed, locality records of the 6 South American species are mapped, and phylogeny and zoogeography are briefly discussed. One species not treated elsewhere as a Schizogenius, S. brevicornis, is redescribed and figured. New combinations in Schizogenius are S. brevicornis (Brull), S. iridescens (Putzeys), and S. xanthopus (Brull). New synonymies (junior names parenthetic) are S. iridescens (= S. jacarensis Whitehead and Listropus micans Putzeys) and S. xanthopus (= S. grossus Whitehead). 
4542981|The terrestrial firefly Pyrocoelia pectoralis (E. Oliv., 1883) (Coleoptera: Lampyridae) was discovered in mainland China in 2002. The larvae of P. pectoralis inhabit moist grasslands and deserted farmlands rich in terrestrial vegetation. We recorded P. pectoralis mainly feeding on two species of land snails, Bradybaena similaris (
4007963|The new genus and species Beerellus taxodii are described from Georgia, the new tribe Agaeocerini is proposed for the North American genus Agaeocera, the genus Trachykele is returned to the tribe Buprestini, and the genus Texania is revalidated. The family Buprestidae is considered to contain 13 subfamilies. A key is presented for the 11 subfamilies and their tribes from North America north of Mexico, with line drawings to illustrate distinctive morphology. A checklist of these, their genera and subgenera is included.
3999452|Anchastus knulli n. sp. from southern Arizona and Baja California is described and illustrated. The absence of a key generic character on adults of this species is discussed.
4009072|The generic assignments of Ctenicera sleeperi Becker, C. pilatei (Champion), and a related new species are reviewed. Deronocus, new genus, is described with C. sleeperi Becker as the type species; this species is also newly reported from Baja California Norte, Mexico. Ctenicera pilatei (Champion) is assigned to the athiodes group of Conoderus Eschscholtz. Conoderus jamaicensis, new species, is described and considered the possible sister species of Conoderus pilatei.
4000002|A new species of Buprestidae, Hippomelas allenrolfeae, is described and illustrated from near the Salton Sea in California and the gulf coast of northern Baja California, Mexico. This species breeds in the root crowns and lower branches of Iodine bush, Allenrolfea occidentalis, and the adults rest on the foliage of this plant.
4008894|The locomotory activity of some predacious Coleoptera was investigated using video techniques. The animals used were subjected to one of three feeding regimes: starved, fully fed or starved but recently introduced to prey species. Starved animals were more active than either fed animals or those recently exposed to prey. Animals recently exposed to prey showed a greater rate of turning than starved individuals. The differences found may enhance the exploitation of aggregated prey.
4000172|Eight species of the genus Amblycerus are reported to feed in seeds of species of the genera Caesalpinia, Cassia, Apeiba, and Combretum. Meibomeus musculus (Say) feeds in species of Desmodium and Lespedeza; seven species of Merobruchus feed in seeds of species of Albizia, Lysiloma, Pithecellobium, Acacia, and Leucaena; Mimosestes nubigens (Motschulsky) feeds in seeds of Acacia; Sennius morosus (Sharp) feeds in seeds of Cassia durangensis Rose; six species of Stator feed in seeds of species of Acacia, Calliandra, Lysiloma, Leucaena, and Mimosa; and four species of Zabrotes feed in seeds of Cassia and Vicia. All of the plants are in the family Leguminosae except for Apeiba (Tiliaceae) and Combretum (Combretaceae).
3999458|The taxonomy and distribution are discussed for the 9 species and 2 subspecies found in America north of Mexico and in the West Indies. A key is presented for separation of the species, and the following new species are described: Spalacopsis (s. str.) chemsaki from Florida, Spalacopsis (s. str.) unicolor from Puerto Rico, Spalacopsis (Euthuorus) macra from Jamaica, and Spalacopsis (E.) filum brevialatum from the Dominican Republic. Spalacopsis confusa Casey, scapalis Casey, suturalis Hamilton, pertenuis Casey, and exilis Casey are reduced to synonymy. The validity of Spalacopsis grandis (Chevrolat) is questioned, and Spalacopsis lobata Breuning is resurrected from synonymy. Drawings, photographs, and distribution maps are included.
4009053| The genus Ectopria LeConte is redescribed and the major generic characters are illustrated. Ectopria hsui, new species, is described from Taiwan. All three known Asian species, Ectopria opaca (Kiesenwetter), Ectopria tachikawai (Sat), and Ectopria hsui Lee and Yang, are described and illustrated, and a key provided. 
4008957|Spodistes monzoni is described from Guatemala, Mexico, and El Salvador. Male key characters are illustrated and compared with those of related species. A dichotomous key to males of all known Spodistes species is presented.
4008285|Comparison of phallic structures indicates that the genus Orphilus includes two valid, neontological, North American species, O. ater Erichson and O. subnitidus LeConte, both of which are distinct from the European O. niger Rossi. Horry County, South Carolina, is assigned as the restricted type locality for O. ater. O. aequalis Casey is designated a junior synonym of O. subnitidus. Known habitats of each species are listed. The larva of O. subnitidus is described and compared with the published description of the larva of O. niger.
3999485|Thamiras Champion (1911) is synonymized under Trachyphloeomimus Champion (1911), and 5 new species (alternatus, championi, mexicanus, sharpi, and undulatoides) of these montane weevils are described from Mexico. A key, photographs of holotypes, descriptions, and illustrations of genitalia are included.
3999419|The tribe Omethini of the family Cantharidae is revised and two new genera, Trogomethes and Symphyomethes, are added to the existing genera, Blathleya and Omethus. For each of the new genera two new species are described.
29739223|The baridine weevils with a smooth inner mandibular face and unmodified antenna are reviewed for the continental United States. Toxeres Germar 1829, a new synonym of Geraeus Pascoe 1889, is suppressed as a nomen oblitum and Geraeus is conserved as a nomen protectum. Pycnogeraeus Casey 1920 is a new synonym of Geraeus; Pachygeraeus Casey 1920 is a new synonym of Linogeraeus Casey 1920. Ten species of Geraeus and 11 species of Linogeraeus are recognized in the study area. Geraeus coarctatus Champion, G. nimbatus (Casey), Linogeraeus crucifer (Champion), L. squamirostris (Champion), L. tonsilis (Boheman), and L. urbanus (Boheman) represent new United States records. Geraeus minor Prena, G. pannuceus Prena, G. petilior Prena, and Linogeraeus appalachensis Prena are described as new species. Several species appear to have been dispersed by man since the early 1900s, but lack of taxonomic expertise prevented the systematic monitoring of their range expansions. New combinations are Linogeraeus crucifer (Champion), L. squamirostris (Champion), L. tonsus (Champion), and Oligolochus bracatoides (Blatchley) (all originally assigned to Geraeus). The following new synonymies are proposed: Geraeus modestus (Boheman) (= Centrinus striatirostris LeConte, C. tortuosus Casey); G. penicillus (Herbst) (= Balaninus pistor Germar, Centrinus dilectus Harris, Centrinaspis tomentosa Casey, C. rhomboida Blatchley); G. picumnus (Herbst) (= Centrinaspis perpusilla Casey, C. argentis Blatchley); Linogeraeus capillatus (LeConte) (= Centrinus clientulus Casey, Geraeus submaculatus Champion, G. puerulus Champion, Centrinaspis repens Casey, C. segregans Casey, C. hilaris Casey); L. crucifer (Champion) (= Geraeus octomaculatus Champion); L. finitimus (Casey) (= Centrinus clarescens Casey, Centrinaspis aequalis Casey, C. furtiva Casey, C. debilis Casey, C. nacta Casey, C. profecta Casey, C. tenuicula Casey); L. laevirostris (LeConte) (= Centrinus punctirostris LeConte, Pachygeraeus aesopus Casey); and L. neglectus (Casey) (= Centrinus grisescens Casey, Centrinaspis proxima Casey, C. vitula Casey). Lectotypes are designated for Centrinus capillatus LeConte, C. neglectus LeConte, Geraeus puerulus Champion, and G. submaculatus Champion. Habitus images, distribution maps, and a key for identification are provided.
4008044|One of the European flour beetles, Tribolium madens (Charpentier), is reported for the first time from Canada; the known distribution in North America is given. The differences between madens and the native audax Halstead are ennumerated and illustrated.
4008051|A key to the five species commonly intercepted at USA ports of entry is given. Only bifoveolatus, japonicus, and minutus are established in North America; distributions and synonymies are given. D. brevis and ocellaris are not established.
4008139|A new species of apterous Telephanus Erichson, T. acrolophus Thomas, is described from the Blue Mountains of Jamaica. It is related to T. darlingtoni Nevermann, also described from Jamaica. Based on a study of T. acrolophus and other Telephanus species, plus specimens of most related genera, the following genera are considered to be a monophyletic group of subfamilial rank having a sister group relationship with the rest of the Silvanidae: Telephanus, Cryptamorpha, Psammoecus, Platamus, Aplatamus, Dendrophagus, Brontopriscus, and Uleiota. Phylogenetic affinities within the subfamily and between the subfamily and other taxa of the "cucujid-like" Cucujoidea are also discussed.
4008992|New distributional records and some geographic range extensions are given for 14 species of Chrysomelidae in Maryland. Notes on habitat, hosts, and collection methods are also provided. A partial life history of Phratora purpurea purpurea Brown is included.
4009714| A new genus, Boricyrtinus, and four new species, Merostenus charynae, Eugamandus ricarti, Decarthria boricua, and Boricyrtinus nilseni are described from Puerto Rico. A key to the genera of the Cyrtinini of the Western Hemisphere is presented. /// Un nuevo gnero, Boricyrtinus, y cuatro nuevas especies, Merostenus charynae, Eugamandus ricarti, Decarthria boricua, y Boricyrtinus nilseni se describen de Puerto Rico. En adicin se presenta una clave para separar los gneros de los Cyrtinini del Hemisferio Occidental. 
4008083|Ptomaphagus californicus (LeConte) is reported as an inquiline in a nest of the ant Pogonomyrmex montanus MacKay in the San Bernardino Mountains of southern California, USA. Although this is a new host record, the most important ant host in southern California is Formica haemorrhoidalis Emery.
4007965|Two new species of sand dune inhabiting Prionus (subgenus Homaesthesis), P. (H.) arenarius, from New Mexico and Texas, and P. (H.) linsleyi, from Arizona, are described; known habitat information for the subgenus is summarized. New locality data are presented for P. (H.) rhodocerus Linsley.
4007954|Recordings of horizontal pulling forces and running were obtained for a number of species of carabid beetles belonging to different Supertribes. Hind leg measurements also were analysed, and all these parameters were correlated with body lengths and weights. Species of the Supertribes Nebriitae, Loriceritae, Elaphritae, and Cicindelitae, whose hind legs have long, slender metafemora, long metatibiae, and small metatrochanters (except Loricera pilicornis which has larger metatrochanters), are significantly better runners but significantly poorer horizontal pullers (assumed to be equivalent to pushing). Species of the Supertribes Broscitae, Trechitae, Patrobitae, Pterostichitae, Callistitae, and Harpalitae, which have relatively shorter, broader metafemora, short metatibiae, and larger metatrochanters, are generally slower runners but better horizontal pullers. Those species which represent the Carabitae resemble the Broscitae, Trechitae, Patrobitae, Pterostichitae, Callistitae, and Harpalitae in their running and horizontal pulling abilities, but their hind legs show morphological running adaptations similar to those species belonging to the Nebriitae, Loriceritae, Elaphritae, and Cicindelitae. That is, they have long, slender metafemora, long metatibiae, and small metatrochanters. However, since only five species of Carabitae so far have been studied no final conclusion has been drawn as to where they fit in the pattern established for the other Carabidae studied.
4009783|A new apionid weevil, Coelocephalapion hyptidis, new species, from Venezuela is described and illustrated. The new species belongs to the C. decoloratum species group. It is under laboratory culture as a potential biocontrol agent for Hyptis suaveolens (L.) Poit. (Lamiaceae) in Australia.
3999676|A new species, Chrysobothris sloicola, is described from American plum (Prunus americana Marsh.) from Michigan. Male genitalia, protibia, clypeus and the last abdominal sternite of both sexes are illustrated.
4007919|Schedlia brownei, convexa and paraconvexa, new species, all from New Guinea are described. A key to the eight species presently placed in the genus is provided. Schedlia brownei and convexa are illustrated.
4009805| The genus Lasiodactylus contains four species, the type species L. brunneus Perty from Peru and Brazil, and three new species described here; L. centralis Cline from southern Mexico, Belize, and Honduras, L. falini Cline from Suriname and French Guiana, and L. kelleri Cline from Argentina. Lasiodactylus kelleri inhabits the burrow systems of dynastine scarabs in the genus Heterogomphus and feeds on plant sap flows caused by their feeding. The genus is characterized by at least two unambiguous characters, a well developed triangular supraocular region and mentum with a sulcate anterior margin. Other external characters shared with the Aethina-complex of genera also are described to assess the position of Lasiodactylus within the Nitidulinae. A key to Lasiodactylus species is provided and new country records for L. brunneus are listed. /// El genero Lasiodactylus contiene cuatro especies, las especies L. brunneus Perty de Per y Brasil, y tres nuevas especies descritas aqu; L. centrales del sur de Mxico, Belice y Honduras, L. falini de Surinam y Guayana Francesa y L. kelleri de Argentina. Lasiodactylus kelleri habita los mismos tneles que habitan los escarabajos de la sub-familia Dynastinae del genero Heterogomphus y se alimenta de la savia de las plantas producida por las heridas causadas por los hbitos alimenticios de estos escarabajos de este genero. Este genero a sido caracterizado por tener dos caractersticas particulares, una regin supraocular bien desarrollada y un mentn de concavidad bien definida en el margen anterior. Otras caractersticas externas del complejo Aethina del mismo genero tambin ha sido descrita para entender la posicin del genero Lasiodactylus en los Nitidulinae. Una clave taxonmica ha sido provista y hay nuevos registros de L. brunneus han sido listados. 
4007948|Two new species of Nitidulidae are described: Epuraea parsonsi from northeastern United States and Quebec and Epuraea rectangula from Wyoming, New Mexico, and central Mexico. The latter was collected from pines in association with bark beetles.
4008962|In a recent revision of Nearctic Aleochara Gravenhorst, one species described as Baryodma minuta Casey 1906 was overlooked. It is a valid species assigned to the subgenus Coprochara Mulsant & Rey of the genus Aleochara. Aleochara minuta is redescribed, its genitalia illustrated, a lectotype designated, and the differences between it and A. verna Say discussed.
4000143|Spanglerogyrus albiventris Folkerts, new genus, new species, in the new subfamily Spanglerogyrinae, occurs in streams in southwestern Alabama. This genus is characterized by having the dorsal and ventral compound eyes in contact on the margin of the head and having unbroadened meso- and metatarsal segments which are as long as or longer than broad. It is the smallest (approx. 2.9 mm) and most primitive of the gyrinids. To reflect more accurately the diversity in the family the three traditional subfamilies are reduced to tribes.
4542975|Aquatic beetles in the families Dryopidae, Dytiscidae, Elmidae, Gyrinidae, Haliplidae, Hydrophilidae, Noteridae, Psephenidae, and Scirtidae were sampled at the Ravenna Training and Logistics (RTLS) site in northeast Ohio from 1999 through 2001. The site is a military base with restricted access, but military activities can cause considerable environmental disturbance. The RTLS has many headwater streams that are part of the Mahoning River basin. It is therefore an important resource in maintaining stream quality in this watershed. This survey is the first comprehensive effort at surveying the aquatic beetles at the RTLS. 124 species were collected including three haliplids, three dytiscids, one gyrinid, and three hydrophilids that were new state records for Ohio. We used these capture data to obtain preliminary estimates of biodiversity in different portions of the RTLS, and estimate how many species we missed in our sampling program. We estimated that about 90% of the total species present at the RTLS were recovered in this survey.
3999663|Adult Hypothyce mixta Howden were collected in the field, and their eggs and early larvae were reared under laboratory conditions. Adult specimens from a natural population sampled in 2 successive years were measured and compared. The entire mating procedure was photographed on movie film. Adults apparently did not eat and appeared to have a vestigial digestive system.
3999897|Thinopinus pictus LeConte ranges from Baja California to southern Alaska. It is polytopic in the northern half of its range. T. variegatus Motschulsky is a synonym, not a subspecies.
4009302|New state distribution records are presented for 41 species of Enoclerus Gahan in Mexico. In addition, six species are recorded as new for the Mexican fauna.
4010020| The leaf litter flea beetle Aulonodera darwini was collected for the first time in the National Reserve Fundo Nongun. This reserve represents the last fragment of the coastal caducifolium forest in the BioBio Region, Chile. In this paper the species is redescribed and illustrated and biological data are briefly outlined. /// La Reserva Nacional Fundo Nongun, representa el ltimo fragmento del bosque costero caducifolio de la Regin del BioBio, Chile. En esta formacin se recolect y registr por primera vez Aulonodera darwini, un pequeo crisomlido que forma parte de la fauna de suelo. En este trabajo se redescribe la especie y se entregan algunos datos biolgicos. 
4008973|Carphorborus andersoni Swaine is a common fossil in Quaternary sites. The scolytid is known from an early Pleistocene site in the Northwest Territories, from several late Quaternary (Sangamonian, early and middle Wisconsinan) sites in the Great Lakes region, and from even more numerous late Wisconsinan sites in the same area. Its modern distribution is apparently confined to Alaska, the Northwest Territories and northernmost Alberta. Recently several late Holocene specimens have been found in a kettle deposit in southern Ontario. The presence of these specimens indicates that the species did not become extirpated about 10,000 years ago, when many species today confined to the northern part of the continent vanished from the lower Great Lakes region, and strongly suggests that it may still be found in the southern boreal forest regions of Ontario.
40664406|The egg and larval stages of Mylassa crassicollis (Blanchard, 1851) are described and illustrated. The eggs are stalked and covered with fecal matter forming an egg case. The larvae live inside a case and the larval stages differ in microsculpture and head capsule chaetotaxy. We discuss the inclusion of Mylassa Stl in the Cryptocephalini subtribe Pachybrachina. Se describe el huevo y estadios larvarios de Mylassa crassicollis (Blanchard, 1851). Los huevos presentan un pednculo y estn recubiertos por materia fecal formando una cpsula. La larva vive en el interior de la cpsula y los estadios larvarios difieren entre s por la microornamentacin y quetotaxia de la cabeza. Se discute la inclusin de Mylassa Stl en Cryptocephalinae subtribu Pachybrachina.
3999486|The subgenus Glanodes is represented in the arid grasslands of southwestern United States, including Utah, Arizona, New Mexico, and western Texas by 6 species: corpulentus Casey, 1914; puncticeps Casey, 1914; huachuca NEW SPECIES (type locality: Huachuca Mts., Arizona); stephani NEW SPECIES (type locality: Arivaca, Arizona); obliquus Horn, 1880; and cohni NEW SPECIES (type locality: Marfa, Texas). Listed as a species inquirendum is Glanodes regressus Casey, 1914. The new name Harpalus tadorcus is proposed for Harpalus cordatus LeConte, 1853, a junior homonym of H. cordatus Duftschmid, 1812. The subgenus Glanodes and its included species are defined and described in terms of adult characteristics. A key is presented to the males of the species. The phylogeny and zoogeography of Glanodes is considered in relation to hypothetical transformation series of body structures, and in relation to the history of the arid grasslands in the southwest. It is proposed that the subgenus originated in the late Miocene in the area of the Colorado Plateau and spread south from there, with differentiation taking place when the grasslands contracted under the influence of unfavorable conditions leading to range disjunction of the habitat and of the Glanodes populations. Dispersal of the beetles occurred during periods favorable for expansion of the grasslands.
4009185| Hydrovatus diabolicus, new species, is described on the basis of a single male specimen. A new subgroup in the genus Hydrovatus Motschulsky is proposed to include three species of the Ethiopian region: H. diabolicus, H. satanas Guignot and H. satanoides Pederzani and Rocchi. Diagnostic characters are given for the new subgroup. Hydrovatus vulneratus Bistrm is recorded for the first time from South Africa. 
3999821|The male of Tachinus inornatus Sharp, a species previously known only from females, is described and illustrated from the state of Chiapas in Mexico. New distributional and habitat references are given for Tachinus mexicanus Campbell and T. minor Campbell. A key to all the known species of Tachinus from Mexico and Central America is included.
4009739|The rare phanaeine dung beetle Phanaeus alvarengai Arnaud 1984 was described from two specimens. Several recent collections of this species are reported here, along with behavioral observations; this new material is a basis for amending earlier descriptions of P. alvarengai. Flight-activity period was recorded as near sunrise for no more than 10 minutes and diet preference appeared to be herbivore dung. Dung-burial behavior was similar to the congeners P. chalcomelas (Perty) and P. cambeforti Arnaud.
41314166|Meziomorphum montagu Trimboli and Philips, new species, from Montagu Cave near the town of the same name in South Africa is described. This species, like all others within the genus, is characterized by an unusual pronotal setal structure composed of a thin inflated shell covering the surface to various degrees, as well as stout, erect leg and elytral spines. It is suspected to be a cave endemic, the only species in this genus with this characteristic currently known.
4008656|Liparthrum sabahensis, a new species of bark beetle from Borneo in the tribe Hypoborini, is described. Because of several unique characters displayed by this species, notes on its generic placement are included. Morphological characters of significance are illustrated.
40983319|Third instars of the Scarabaeinae species Sulcophanaeus menelas (Laporte), Sulcophanaeus imperator (Chevrolat), Sulcophanaeus batesi (Harold) (all Phanaeini), Ontherus sulcator (F.) (Dichotomiini), and Malagoniella argentina (Gillet) (Canthonini) construct pupation chambers inside brood balls. Similar chambers are constructed by larvae of Anomiopsoides biloba (Burmeister) (Eucraniini) inside nests. The wall of these pupation chambers is a helicoid composed of whorls showing transverse rows of imbricate pellets. When this character is optimized on a simplified cladogram of Scarabaeinae, the helicoidal wall seems to be a synapomorphic character for the clade that includes Phanaeini, Eucraniini, Neotropical Canthonini, and some species of Dichotomiini. It may be predicted that species of other tribes belonging to this clade (Scarabaeini, Gymnopleurini, Eurysternini, and some Coprini) would construct similar pupation chamber walls. In addition, the presence of two other types of pellet arrangements in the pupation chamber wall in species of Liatongus Reitter (Oniticellini) and Heliocopris Hope (Dichotomiini), which are grouped in the other main clade of the subfamily, suggests that the behavior of arranging pellets in rows in the pupation chamber wall appeared in the node that defines Scarabaeinae.
4009312| The formerly monotypic South American genus Cayetunya Bechyn is revised to include C. breesei Bechyn from Trinidad and Venezuela, C. clarki, new species, from Venezuela, C. colombiana, new species, from Colombia, C. consanguinea (Blake) from Panam, and C. tifferi, new species, from Costa Rica to Honduras. 
4008969| We observed Echoma sp. nr. bonfilsi (Boheman) males competing for mates and copulating while females oviposited within fresh inflorescences of Mikania guaco H. & B. (Asteraceae) in Panama. Adults and all larval instars fed exclusively upon unopened and recently opened florets of this plant. This is the first record of flower feeding among tortoise beetles (Chrysomelidae, Cassidinae) and the first host plant record for any Echoma species. Observations of Echoma marginata (L.), in Brazil confirm that larvae and adults of this species also feed upon unopened flowers of an asteraceous host, Mikania stipulacea Willd. The incubation period for eggs and the overall developmental period for the immature stages in these two species is shorter than in several leaf feeding species of the same tribe (Stolaini). /// Observamos los machos de la especie Echoma sp. nr. bonfilsi compitiendo para aparejarse y copulando y las hembras ovopositando dentro de la inflorescencia fresca de Mikania guaco H. & B. (Asteraceae) en Panam. Los adultos y los estadios larvales se alimentan exclusivamente de las florecitas cerradas y de las reciente abiertas de esta planta. Este es el primer registro de alimentacin de flor entre los escarabajos tortugas (Chrysomelidae, Cassidinae) y el primer registro de plantas hospedera para cualquier especie de Echoma. Las observaciones de Echoma marginata (L.) en Brazil confirman que sus larvas y adultos de este especie tambien se alimentan de las flores cerradas de un hospedero asterceo, Mikania stipulacea Willd. El perodo de incubacin de los huevos y el total desarrollo de los estadios inmaduros de estas dos especies es ms corto que en diversas especies que se alimentan de hojas de la misma tribu (Stolaini). 
3999957| Max Bnninger (1884-1964), an amateur Coleopterist from Switzerland, focused his attention on the more primitive tribes of Carabid beetles. His geographic perspective was global; his scope was taxonomy. He spent little time writing of natural history aspects and worked within the classifications erected by others. He mainly described new taxa, provided keys to species, and discussed characteristics useful for identification. His collection was donated to the Entomologisches Institut, Eidgenssische Technische Hochschule, Zrich, Switzerland upon his death, where it has been excellently maintained in a room separate from the general collection. Bnninger's annotated publications are housed with the collection. The collection consists of over 30 drawers of material, 22 of which house Nebria specimens; the remainder are Omophron, Scaritini, Ozaenini, and various other groups. There are 39 primary types, 281 cotypes, and 126 secondary types. Much of this material was the basis of Bnninger's 44 publications. 
4007883|The first record of an apparently cavernicolous bark beetle is documented. The cave-dwelling population is characterized by distinct eye reduction. The normal eye of adult female Coccotrypes dactyliperda contains approximately 75 to 100 well-defined facets, while in the cavedwelling population the eye contains about 65 obscure facets.
4008549|Winter mounds of the Louisiana pocket gopher, Geomys breviceps Baird, were excavated and examined to determine if any arthropods were present in the burrows. Included among the species collected were the following Histeridae: Onthophilus kirni Ross and Geomysaprinus (G.) n. sp. Collection of G. (G.) n. sp. in Brazos County, Tex. represents the first report of this species.
4009520|Paramblopusa eoa, new species (Type locality: Urup Island, Kuril Islands), is described. Type and paratypes of the new species are designated. Illustrations of diagnostic features are provided. The differences between members of P. eoa Ahn and Maruyama and P. borealis (Casey) are presented.
4000151|Platystethus cornutus Gravenhorst does not occur in the United States. The species recorded under that name is P. degener Mulsant and Rey.
27571152|Orthotomicus chaokhao new species is described from Northern Thailand. It is morphologically similar to O. angulatus Eichhoff, 1878 but can be distinguished by the presence of a spine located on the face of declivity near the apex of the declivity and also by straight posterior margin of elytra in both sexes.
3999531|Photuris fairchildi Barber was the only Photuris firefly found in Nova Scotia and was common in most moist habitats. Males usually produced single flashes, but in some localities they produced 3- and 4-pulsed flash patterns; flash patterns of individual males varied from 1 to 6 flashes but the pause (time from end of one flash pattern to the beginning of the next) was relatively constant (2.4 to 2.6 sec). Females answered male flash patterns at delays of about 1.5 sec. As the male approached the female, the number of flashes in each male flash pattern and in each female response increased and the flashing of both soon became continuous. The entire dialogue lasted 10-20 sec. Females also answered flashes of other fireflies: Pyractomena linearis Leconte, Pyractomena borealis (Randall) and Photinus ardens LeConte and ate those attracted (aggressive mimicry). Aggressive mimic responses were single flashes and Photuris males apparently avoided their predatory females by landing only for responses that include a series of flashes.
4543038|A new species of endomychid, Stenotarsus nigrivestis Shockley, is described from the Dominican Republic, representing the first description of a species of Stenotarsinae from the West Indies. A summary of the known West Indian Endomychidae is provided.
40389440|Nanos viettei (Paulian, 1976) is a nocturnal generalist dung beetle mostly feeding on carrion. Despite its relatively small size (6 mm), N. viettei is a longlived (up to two years) species with extremely low lifetime fecundity (maximum four offspring) and very low mobility (based on markrecapture studies). Matings are promiscuous and, exceptionally for Canthonini, males typically guard the female for at least several hours after mating. There is no bisexual cooperation or mate courtship unlike in many other Scarabaeidae. Heterospecific copulation was observed in captivity, supporting the hypothesis of genetic introgression between closely related species for which there is some molecular evidence. Hybridization and low hybrid fitness may at least partly explain the exclusive geographical ranges of species in the 'viettei species-group'.
4008477|Six species of Coenonycha Horn are recorded from Baja California, Mexico, and its adjacent islands: C. acuta Cazier, C. rotundata (LeConte), C. sleeperi Evans sp. nov., C. socialis Horn, and C. testacea Cazier. Coenonycha lurida Cazier and C. parvula Fall are suspected to occur in this region as well. Coenonycha rufobrunnea Howden is synonymized with C. rotundata.
4008194|Agrilus waltersi n. sp. is described from specimens collected on Quercus spp. in southeastern Arizona. It is compared with two closely similar species, A. quercus Schaeffer and A. geronimoi Knull.
4008020|Neophaenognatha n. gen. is proposed for three Neotropical species, jenseni Heller, richteri Ohaus, and minor Bruch, formerly placed in Phaenognatha Hope, now considered to be exclusively Australian. N. capella n. sp. is described from Argentina, and lectotypes are designated for N. jenseni, N. richteri, and N. minor.
4009889|Nordus horni (Bernhauer) and Plociopterus belti Sharp are recognized for the first time as junior subjective synonyms of Plociopterus variegatus Sharp. Lectotypes are here designated for N. horni and P. variegatus. The taxonomic history is given for the species.
4008721| A study of Oxyporinae beetles occurring at four localities of Sierra de Taxco, Guerrero, and Derrame del Chichinautzin, Morelos, Mxico, was conducted. Oxyporus mexicanus Fauvel and O. lawrencei Campbell from Guerrero State and O. lawrencei from Morelos State are recorded for the first time from these states. Also the mushroom hosts of some Mexican oxyporines are given for the first time. A key for the Mexican species of Oxyporinae is provided. /// Se realiz un estudio de los oxiporinos en cuatro localidades de la Sierra de Taxco, Guerrero, y del Derrame del Chichinautzin, Morelos, Mxico. Se citan por primera vez a Oxyporus mexicanus Fauvel y O. lawrencei Campbell para el estado de Guerrero y O. lawrencei para el estado de Morelos. Tambin se registran por vez primera los hongos hospederos de algunos oxiporinos mexicanos. Se proporciona una clave para las especies mexicanas de Oxyporinae. 
4008662| Ensayos de cruzamiento entre machos y hembras de Pseudopachymerina spinipes provenientes de semillas de Acacia caven del noroeste Argentino, con ejemplares obtenidos de semillas de A. aroma, no dieron descendencia pues no hubo desarrollo embrionario, cuando llegaron a colocar huevos. Por lo tanto considero a los ltimos como pertenecientes a una nueva especie que denomino P. grata. /// Males and females of Pseudopachymerina spinipes reared from Acacia caven seeds from northwestern Argentina were crossed with individuals from A. aroma seeds. Some eggs were obtained, but first instar larvae failed to develop within the eggs. Therefore, individuals from A. aroma are considered a new species, P. grata, which is closely related to P. spinipes. Some distinguishing characters are given in order to separate them. 
4008223|Halme masakoae, a new cerambycid beetle of the tribe Tillomorphini is described and illustrated. This is the third member of the genus in the fauna of Taiwan.
4008799| The first natural history observations on the semi-aquatic tiger beetle Oxycheila polita Bates are reported. Reproductive, feeding and predator escape behaviors are described based on lab experiments and field observations on the Peas Blancas River, Alajuela, Costa Rica. Reproductive behavior is similar to that of other tiger beetle species. When feeding on sessile prey on rock surfaces along the water's edge, O. polita may enter river flow, and when predators approach, it frequently jumps or flies into turbulent river flow and is carried downstream several hundred feet, where the beetle flies out of the water. Beetles active near fast-flowing river currents exhibited escape behavior in which they jumped or flew into the river, whereas beetles near slowly moving currents or beetles farther than 1 meter from the river edge did not enter the river. 
4009075|The alticine genus Orestioides Hatch is synonymized with Asiorestia Jacobson. This decision is based on the comparative morphological study of representative species of Orestioides, Asiorestia and Orestia Germar.
4007974|The family Buprestidae seems to share common ancestry with, or be derived from, the Dryopoidea (excluding Ptilodactylidae). Its origin appears to be independent from those of the Artematopoidea and Elateroidea. Within the Dryopoidea, the Buprestidae may have their closest affinities with the Elmidae and Lutrochidae.
4009122|In natural conditions, the fungal host associations of two sympatric species of derodontid beetles, Derodontus maculatus (Melsheimer) and D. esotericus Lawrence, appear to be mutually exclusive. Derodontus maculatus is a monophagous species that feeds almost exclusively on the sporocarps of Pleurotus ostreatus Fries mushrooms. In contrast, D. esotericus is a generalist that feeds on a variety of fungi. Laboratory tests of host choice support field observations for D. esotericus, but not necessarily for D. maculatus. Laboratory data also suggest that these Derodontus species do not compete for resources and that host patterns may serve as a premating isolating mechanism.
4009381|Pelidnota huetheri, new species, an entirely black species from Chiriqui Province, Panama, is described and illustrated.
4000132|The life history and habits of Eugnamptus collaris (F.) associated with Sassafras albidum (Nutt.) in northern Ohio are discussed. Oviposition is in dead leaves already on the ground from the previous fall leaf drop. Larvae develop as full-depth leaf miners and when mature leave the mines to pupate in the soil. Larval and pupal stages are described and illustrated for the first time.
40983330|Saperda lateralis rileyi, a new subspecies of Cerambycidae from parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Arkansas, is described, illustrated, and compared to the nominate subspecies. Intergradation between the two subspecies is described, and a map showing their distribution in the southeastern United States is provided. The synonymy of Saperda lateralis var. disconotata Pic, 1907 with Saperda tridentata Olivier, 1795 is confirmed.
4000165|Dirrhagofarsus lewisi, accidentally introduced from Japan, was found boring in a fallen, dead beech tree, Fagus grandifolia, in Baltimore, Maryland, in 1976. The genus is referred to an existing North American determination key, and the life history, pupa, and larva of the species are described. Morphological adaptations of the larva are discussed.
3999533|Two sibling species of Chauliognathus range from southern Mexico through Central America to northwestern South America as far south as Bolivia and eastward into Venezuela. A zone of species overlap occurs at the Cordillera de Talamanca in Costa Rica. A model is presented describing origin and dispersion of the species in light of current concepts of plate tectonics. The species are redescribed and compared with other members of the genus.
4000113|The apparent stridulatory organ of the vertex and pronotum of Platyderus ruficollis is described. It is not thought to be a stridulatory warning mechanism, but it may be used for intraspecific functions. Alternatively, the beetle may be preadapted by having a mechanism that could be used for stridulation but not yet have evolved the movement necessary for forming a regular stridulatory organ. Again, it may be a vestige of former use in stridulation.
3999543|A new species of Bruchidae, Acanthoscelides kingsolveri, is described. It feeds in the seeds of Indigofera suffruticosa and I. sphaerocarpa and has a distribution from Texas and Arizona to Costa Rica. Characters to separate it from the very similar Acanthoscelides submuticus are given.
3999991|Typocerus deceptus Knull is reported for the first time from Illinois on the basis of collections made by the author in areas of extremely sandy soils. Certain black oaks are tentatively suggested to be possible hosts of this rarely collected beetle.
4009054| The third-stage larvae and pupae of Golofa eacus Burmeister and G. porteri Hope are described using 29 specimens collected in Tolima and Darien, Colombia. Drawings of the diagnostic structures, comments on the biology of G. eacus and a key to the known third-stage larvae of world-wide genera in the tribe Dynastini are also included. /// Se describen las larvas de tercer estadio y las pupas de Golofa eacus Burmeister y G. porteri Hope, con base en 29 ejemplares colectados en las regiones de Tolima y Darien, Colombia. Se incluyen ilustraciones de las estructuras diagnsticas, algunas observaciones sobre la biologa de G. eacus, y una clave para separar las larvas de tercer estado de los gneros includos en la tribu Dynastini. 
4008259|Haliplus nitens LeConte 1850 resembles several sympatric Haliplus species which have in common a length over 3.5 mm; a black or fuscous medial blotch on the anterior margin of the pronotum; and deep, black or fuscous punctures on the base of the pronotum. From these it differs in having the following combination of characters: length 4.1 mm or less; medial triangular projection at base of pronotum near elytral suture not infuscate; metafemur uniformly pale yellow; and base of pronotum with about 60 infuscate punctures. The species is redescribed, a lectotype designated, and a key provided for separating it from similar Haliplus. Most published accounts of H. nitens are shown to represent misidentification of H. canadensis. The range of H. nitens is disjunct and includes Isle St. Ignace, near the Ontario shore of Lake Superior; and Shovel Mt., Texas. The validity of the Texas locality is suspect.
4009093|A new genus of Triplacinae (Erotylidae), Hirsutotriplax Skelley, and a new species from Arizona, U.S.A., H. mcclevei Skelley as type species, are described. Similarities and differences between Hirsutotriplax and Triplax Herbst are discussed. A previously published key to the genera of Erotylidae north of Mexico is modified to include Hirsutotriplax. Distinct dorsal pubescence and foveate punctures make this beetle unique among the New World Triplacinae.
4008575| Seven Neotropical and Australasian species are recognized in the genus Colydodes Motschulsky. Colydodes immsi Hinton is synonymized with C. gibbiceps Motschulsky; C. bostrychoides Grouvelle is synonymized with C. mammillaris (Pascoe); and C. samoensis Arrow is synonymized with C. wallacei (Pascoe). A lectotype is designated for C. bostrychoides Grouvelle; a neotype is designated for C. gibbiceps Motschulsky, type species of Colydodes. Distaphyla setosa Reitter (Sumatra) is removed from its current placement in Colydodes to Neotrichus setosus (Reitter). Two new species are described: C. peruviensis (Peru) and C. simplex (Brazil to Trinidad). Distribution, nomenclatural history, a diagnosis and illustration is provided for each species. A key to species of Colydodes is provided. /// Se registran siete especies del gnero Colydodes Motschulsky en las zonas neotropical y australasitica. Colydodes immsi Hinton se hace sinnimo de C. gibbiceps Motschulsky; C. bostrychoides Grouvelle se hace sinnimo de C. mammillaris (Pascoe); y C. samoensis Arrow se hace sinnimo de C. wallacei (Pascoe). Se designa el lectotipo de C. bostrychoides Grouvelle; se designa el neotipo de C. gibbiceps Motschulsky, cual especie es el tipo de Colydodes. Distaphyla setosa Reitter (Sumatra) cambia del gnero Colydodes y se lista como Neotrichus setosus (Reitter). Se describer C. peruviensis (Peru) y C. simplex (Brasil a Trinidad). Para cada especie se explican la distribucin, la historia del nombre, y las caractarsticas diagnsticas. Hay una clave para la identificacin de las especies. 
4008758|Ischyrus dunedinensis, described by Blatchley (1917) from a single example, is redescribed on the basis of 42 recently collected specimens. The species is compared with I. frontalis Lacordaire from Mexico, its closest relative, and I. quadripunctatus (Olivier), the only sympatric member of Ischyrus. A habitus drawing of I. dunedinensis is included, and the male genitalia of all three species are described and illustrated. A key is provided to the species of Ischyrus north of Mexico.
3999778|Adults and larvae of Nosodendron californicum Horn were observed and collected from sap exudations on and adjacent to frost cracks of Abies grandis (Douglas) Lindley. This is the first published record of this species in Idaho and east of the Cascade Range in the Pacific Northwest.
27571162|Heterachthes rugosicollis Martins is recorded for the first time from North America north of Mexico (U.S.A.). Its host plant is identified, a description in English is given, and an updated key to the genus in North America is provided.
4009914|The taxonomic position of Mecysmoderes consularis Pascoe (Mecysmoderini, subfamily Ceutorhynchinae) was studied. Based on morphological and biological reasons, M. consularis should be placed within the genus Xenysmoderes Colonnelli (also Mecysmoderini). The structures of the frons, prothorax, elytral intervals, and procoxae of X. consularis (Pascoe), new combination, agree well with those of Xenysmoderes species. The host plant association with the genus Alpinia Roxburgh (Zingiberales: Zingiberaceae) indicate closer relation to Xenysmoderes, which is associated with Costaceae (Zingiberales), rather than to Mecysmoderes Schoenherr, which is associated with trees of Ericaceae (Ericales). Xenysmoderes ruficollis, new species, is described from Lanhsu Island and is distinguished from X. consularis by the body coloration, pattern of scales, and shapes of male aedeagus and female spermatheca. Xenysmoderes consularis and X. ruficollis occur allopatrically, the former distributed in Taiwan proper and on Lutao Island, while the latter is found only on Lanhsu Island.
4000105|A new species, Agrilus salviaphilos, collected from Shrubby Blue Salvia (Salvia ballotaeflora Benth.) is described from South Texas.
4008085|The purpuricenine genus Rhodoleptus is redefined. R. pyrrhulus Bates is returned to the genus Metaleptus. Rhodoleptus now consists of femoratus Schaeffer, comis Bates and umbrosus, new species from Mexico.
4008742| Eurysternus sanbornei, n. sp., and Eurysternus ventricosus, n. sp., from Canaima National Park, Venezuela, are described and illustrated. Jessop's 1985 key to Eurysternus species is modified to accommodate these two new species and E. vastiorum Martnez. The distinctive defensive behavior of Eurysternus species is discussed with respect to possible outgroups. 
3999759|Descriptions and illustrations are provided for the following species: Notiophilus novemstriatus Say, Pasimachus elongatus Lec., Agonum punctiformis Say, and Chlaenius prasinus Dej. They are compared with other known larvae in each respective genus.
4008386|Conophthorus terminalis, a new species from Mexico, is described. Brief biological notes, a damage assessment and notes on distribution are also given.
4009164|Between 1981 and 1985, the forest canopy at four sites in New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont was sampled, by fogging with pyrethrin, to survey for gypsy moth caterpillars. In addition to caterpillars, thousands of adult insects were collected, which included 52 species of cerambycid beetles. One-third of the species were most abundant on their larval host plants. Sampling did not reveal a cerambycid fauna unique to the canopy level of the forest.
4008525|Four European species of Staphylinus (sensu lato) are recorded for the first time from North America: S. brunnipes from New Hampshire, S. similis from Massachusetts and New Hampshire, and S. melanarius and S. winkleri from east and west coasts of the United States and Canada. Three previously recorded introduced species, S. aeneocephalus, S. ater, and S. olens, are briefly reviewed. Published records of S. globulifer from North America are probably based on misidentifications.
4008402|The host range of Trirhabda flavolimbata was determined using both adults and larvae in feeding tests. Although Baccharis spp. were the preferred hosts, significant feeding occurred on other plants belonging to the Tribe Astereae. It was concluded that although this insect was stenophagous, its host range was too wide for T. flavolimbata to be approved as a biocontrol agent against B. halimifolia in Australia or B. neglecta in Texas.
4009749|Tiger beetles of the genera Phaeoxantha Chaudoir and Tetracha Hope are considered to be flightless or to fly only occasionally. Six species of these genera inhabit Central Amazonian floodplains and show strong differences in life cycles, behaviour, and habitats. From this background we investigated flight ability in these species by determining flight muscle development in specimens regularly collected between 1997-1999. Gonad states (in females) as well as teneral females were recorded to estimate beetle age. Of 1,946 adult beetles of these six species we dissected, 31.4% had fully developed flight muscles, suggesting flight ability. In the other 68.6% of specimens flight muscles were completely absent. Frequency of flight muscle presence varied greatly among species, ranging from 100% in Tetracha species, and 0 to 60% in Phaeoxantha species. No evidence for an "oogenesis flight syndrome" was found in females as flight muscle states were not correlated with age. These findings are interpreted as flight (muscle) dimorphism in Phaeoxantha species. Flight muscle presence in males and females was only different in P. klugii Chaudoir with flight ability being more frequent in females. Tetracha species use flight as an integral part of their survival strategy in Central Amazonian floodplains, unlike Phaeoxantha species. A possible correlation between the degree of flightlessness and habitat stability in Phaeoxantha species is discussed.
4009532|Fifty-four species of lady beetles were collected from three Chinese hemlock species, Tsuga dumosa (D. Don) Eichler, T. forrestii Downie and T. chinensis (Franchet) Pritzel, in Yunnan, Sichuan and Shaanxi provinces of China as part of a search for natural enemies of the hemlock woolly adelgid, Adelges tsugae Annand. Twenty new species are described: Clitostethus wenbishanus Yu, Scymnus (Neopullus) ningshanensis Yu and Yao, S. (N.) lijiangensis Yu, S. (N.) lycotropus Yu, S. (N.) nigromarginalis Yu, S. (Parapullus) tsugae Yu and Yao, S. (Scymnus) unciformis Yu, S. (S.) paracrinitus Yu, S. (Pullus) nigrobasalis Yu, S. (P.) baoxingensis Yu, S. (P.) gucheng Yu, S. (P.) geminus Yu and Montgomery, S. (P.) heyuanus Yu, S. (P.) robustibasalis Yu, S. (P.) jaculatorius Yu, Pseudoscymnus heijia Yu and Montgomery, P. ocellatus Yu, Shirozuella quadrimacularis Yu, and Sh. nibagou Yu. New synonyms placed here are: Oenopia yunlongensis Jing for O. deqenensis Jing, and O. pomiensis Jing, O. gonggarensis Jing and O. picithoroxa Jing for O. billieti (Mulsant). Harmonia quadripunctata (Pontoppidan) is a new record for China. Keys are provided to separate the known species of Clitostethus Wiese, Scymnus (Neopullus) Sasaji, and Scymnus (Scymnus) Kugelann in China. Nine species are recorded as predators of the hemlock woolly adelgid: Oenopia billieti (Mulsant), Adalia conglomerata (L.), Calvia championorum Booth, P. ocellatus, S. (N.) camptodromus Yu et Liu, S. (N.) sinuanodulus Yu et Yao, S. (N.) ningshanensis, S. (P.) yunshanpingensis Yu, and S. (P.) geminus.
4008033| The Neotropical genus Phaedropus is revised, and two new species are described: Phaedropus inopinatus (type-locality, Bolivia, Santa Cruz) and Phaedropus suturellus (type-locality, Brazil, Mato Grosso do Sul, gua Clara). Keys and illustrations of habitus and male genitalia of the five known species are provided. Study of the male genitalia of Phaedropus disclosed a long flagellum inside the internal sac of median lobe. A brief study carried out on the male genitalia of the other four genera included in Entimini revealed that the flagellum is a feature unique of Phaedropus. In the genera Cydianerus Schoenherr, Entimus Germar, Polydius Schoenherr, and Rhigus Germar, the internal sac is provided with sclerites but lacks the flagellum. 
3999726|Eparchium is transferred from the Staphylinidae to the Melyridae and placed as a junior synonym of Apterodasytes, a member of the Dasytini. Eparchiini is a junior synonym of Dasytini. The 2 species of Apterodasytes are distinguished by color. A lectotype is designated for A. paradoxa.
4009713|Apomorphies of the internal reproductive organs relevant to production and utilization of spermatophores, biologic traits associated with anthophily, and presence of afferent peg sensilla on the antennae suggests that a presumed monophyletic assemblage of genera of subfamily Clerinae are descendants of an ancient monophyletic stock linked to early angiosperm evolution. The species examined include all suprageneric categories of Cleridae proposed to date. The ground plan of the internal reproductive organs of Cleridae for the male involved a pair of multifollicular testes, tubular vas deferens, unichambered seminal vesicle, one pair of accessory glands, highly muscular ejaculatory duct, and for the ancestral female, a pair of multifollicular ovaries, non capsular spermatheca, well-developed spermathecal gland and spermathecal gland duct, and a spacious vagina. Based on presumed homologies of the male accessory glands across generic lines, and to a lesser extent on extraction of contents of the vagina of gravid females, the following clerines are thought to utilize the "mating plug" type of spermatophore as a method of sperm transference: Trichodes, Aulicus, Chilioclerus, Opilo, Dieropsis, Phlogistus, Phlogistomorpha, Scrobiger, Trogodendron, Zenithicola, and Balcus. Many species of several of the noted genera are anthophilic; histological work involving the alimentary canal, and examination of midgut contents, confirm their pollen feeding habits, and their opportunistic predatory nature on flower-visiting insects. The abovementioned genera are morphologically diverse externally, but nine share a peculiar microsetose character of the antennal club that is presumed synapomorphic. Investigations involving electron microscopy show that some of these microsetae are peg sensilla, which in other beetles are known to function as thermoreceptors. It is hypothesized that these thermoreceptors present on the antenna of spermatophoral clerines are afferent structures that enable the beetles to avoid fire-death in xeric environments. The widespread distribution, peculiar structure of the internal reproductive organs, substantial diversity of external structure, and anthophilous character invite the speculation that the spermatophoral clerines represent a monophyletic group evolved from an ancient Gondwanan ancestor tied to early Angiosperm diversification. Then, due to tectonic, climatic, and ecological events, the spermatophoral clerines became vicariously distributed onto the North American, Eurasian, African, and Australian plates on which they underwent an extensive radiation in part due to Angiosperm proliferation.
4008619|Two new species, Polopinus youngi and Polopinus hubbelli, from Florida are described. Polopinus nitidus subdepressus and Polopinus nitidus brevior are placed as synonyms of Polopinus nitidus. A key to the species of Polopinus is presented and the evolution of the Polopinus species is compared with the geological history of Florida.
4009712|The stridulatory mechanism in Oxycheila tristis (Fabricius) (Cicindelinae: Megacephalini) is described. Sound is produced by males and females rubbing the internal edge of the hind femur (plectrum) on the ringed elytral epipleura (pars stridens). The hind legs usually alternate, and sound is mostly generated during backward movement. Abdominal movements seem to play a role in the amplitude modulation of the signals. Temporal characteristics of the sound are slightly different for both sexes (longer leg cycles in females) but the frequency spectra are similar. The same stridulatory structures were found in other Oxycheila species as well as in the closely related Cheiloxya binotata longipennis Horn. Considering the different stridulatory mechanisms described in cicindelids, sound production probably evolved independently at least three times in this group.
4009945| Resource partitioning strategies can help us understand the origin and maintenance of highly diverse communities. We collected 205 dung beetle species (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae) associated with many different kinds of resources in southeastern Peru. We focus only on extreme cases of resource specialization of species occupying unusually narrow ecological niches, rather than the broad range of specialists which exists. The natural history of most of these species is previously unknown, and several have been considered very rare. Although dung beetles were captured with all types of dung, including avian, reptile and invertebrate dung, species did not specialize exclusively on certain dung types. Ten species appeared to specialize exclusively on a single non-dung food resource, including fruit, fungus, carrion, dead invertebrates, and live millipedes. The diets of 15 species captured only by hand or with passive flight intercept traps are unknown, and these included species in unusual genera such as Anomiopus, Bdelyrus, Canthonella, Dendropaemon, and Sinapisoma. Eleven species appeared to specialize exclusively on a restricted habitat or microhabitat such as riverine beach, Guadua bamboo patches, river alder forest (Tessaria), attine ant nests, or abandoned termite nests. Four species of Canthon were forest canopy specialists. The apparent rarity of some of these species, such as Canthonidia rubromaculata Blanchard, Deltochilum valgum Burmeister, Ontherus laminifer Balthasar, and Ontherus raptor Gnier, may only be due to their unusual habits, while other species, such as Megatharsis buckleyi Waterhouse, appear to be genuinely rare. We also discuss the implications of these findings for sampling methodology and assessment of species abundance distributions. 
41413655|Hybridization zones constitute privileged natural laboratories to study differences among taxa and the processes that originate patterns of geographic variation. In this study, we investigate a hybridization zone between two subspecies of coprophagous beetles, Canthon humectus hidalgoensis Bates and Canthon humectus alvarengai Halffter (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae), in central Mexico. We also describe the variation of four characters  dorsal surface coloration, total length, pronotal granulation, and aedeagal morphology  throughout the hybridization zone, which clearly define the transition among typical localities for both subspecies. We propose that superposition of the area of distribution of both subspecies, as well as the lack of reproduction barriers between different morphs, allow the existence of geographical variation. Las zonas de hibridacin constituyen laboratorios naturales privilegiados para estudiar las diferencias entre taxa y los procesos que generan los patrones de variacin geogrfica. En este trabajo estudiamos una franja de hibridacin entre dos subespecies de escarabajos coprfagos: Canthon humectus hidalgoensis Bates y Canthon humectus alvarengai Halffter (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae) en el centro de Mxico. Se describe la variacin de cuatro caracteres a travs de la zona de hibridacin  coloracin de la superficie dorsal, longitud total, granulacin del pronoto y morfologa del edeago  definiendo claramente su transicin entre las localidades tpicas de las dos subespecies. La sobreposicin de las reas de distribucin de las dos subespecies y la falta de barreras entre los distintos morfos para la integracin de parejas reproductoras, permiten la existencia de la zona de hibridacin.
4000059| El aparato estridulador de la larva de los Passalidae est compuesto por el reducido par de patas metatorcicas que actuan como escraper (pars stridens) y el par de coxas mesotorcicas que funcionan como fila (plectrum). En Odontotaenius zodiacus (Truqui), las estrias de la fila estn separadas por una distancia del orden de las 8 a 11 micras. Tres oscilogramas del sonido emitido por esta especie fueron analizados en detalle. El sonido producido consiste de una serie de pulsos, cada pulso es el resultado del impacto de una parte del escraper contra una estra de la fila. En cada impacto del escraper, hacia abajo y hacia arriba, se produce un nmero de pulsos sonoros, cerca de 20. El ciclo completo de impactos hacia abajo y arriba puede ser repetido varias veces por segundo. Existe una considerable variacin entre golpes sucesivos y entre los diferentes perodos de estridulacin. /// The stridulatory apparatus of passalid larvae consists of the much-reduced metathoracic leg acting as a scraper and the mesothoracic coxa acting as a file. In Odontotaenius zodiacus the ridges on the file are about 8 to 11 microns apart. Three oscillograms of the sound emitted were examined in detail. The sound consists of series of pulses, each pulse arising from the impact of a part of the scraper on a file ridge. In each downstroke and in each upstroke of the scraper a number, of the order of 20, of sound pulses were emitted. The complete cycle of upstroke and downstroke could be repeated several times per second. There was considerable variation between successive strokes and between different periods of stridulation. 
4008963|Ctenicera umbripennis (LeConte), Ctenicera callida (Brown) and Athous productus (Randall) are reported from Alberta, and Harminius triundulatus (Mannerheim) is recorded from Alberta and Saskatchewan, for the first time. The presence of Pityobius anguinus LeConte in Alberta is confirmed. Female genital structures are illustrated for Ctenicera glauca (Germar), C. umbripennis and C. callida, as are other diagnostic characters for C. umbripennis, C. callida and C. glauca.
4009099| Known aspects of the life history and habits of Oxyporus stygicus Say are described, based upon material collected in the field and reared in the laboratory. Adults inhabit mature fruiting bodies of a variety of fungi, including Pleurotus ostreatus (Jacq. ex Fr.) Kummer, Pholiota aurivella (Fr.) Kummer, Grifola frondosa (Fr.) S. F. Gray, Polyporus squamosus Huds. ex Fr. and Omphalotus illudens (Schw.) Bigelow. Larvae are known to develop in P. aurivella and O. illudens. Approximate duration of developmental stages at room temperature (22-24C) in days were: egg (collection to eclosion), 1; larvae, instar I, 1-2; larvae, instar II, 1-2; larvae, instar III, 1-2; prepupa, 1-2; pupa, 7-10. Complete developmental time (collection to adult emergence) of O. stygicus ranged from 16-18 days (mean 17.0 days). Eggs, larvae and pupae are described and illustrated. 
4008208|A new species of firefly from southern Arizona and Mexico is described in the worldwide genus Lampyris, in accordance with the taxonomic scheme proposed for United States species by J. W. Green in 1959.
4009165|Replacement names are proposed for 6 species of Buprestidae in the genera Chrysobothris Eschscholtz, Pachyschelus Solier, Hylaeogena Obenberger, Callimicra Deyrolle and Trachys Fabricius.
4009310| The third-instar larva of Aphodius (Trichaphodielus) brasiliensis Castelnau is described and illustrated on the basis of specimens collected in Ubatuba, So Paul, Brazil. Larval diagnostic characters establish a close relationship between A. brasiliensis and A. stercorosus Melsheimer, A. troglodytes Hubbard and A. kalungwensis Paulian, all included in the subgenus Koshantschikovius Schmidt. Comments about the biology of the species are made. 
3999760|Collection of first known males and new distribution records are presented for Ernobius opicus Fall.
4009545| Illustrated descriptions of larvae, pupae and adult genitalia are provided for Eugenysa columbiana (Boheman) in Costa Rica. These represent the first such descriptions for the tribe Eugenysini. Females are reported as exhibiting guarding of larvae and pupae. Male presence with the female and larval group is also described. The distribution range is extended to Peru, and host plant data is recorded. A new character from the spermatheca is presented and its potential usefulness in deducing eugenysine relationships is discussed. /// Se presentan descripciones ilustradas de larvas y pupas y genitalia de adultos para Eugenysa columbiana (Boheman) en Costa Rica que constituyen el primer registo para la tribu. Se reporta el cuidado maternal de larvas y pupas. Se describe tambin la presenca del macho con la hembra y el grupo de larvas. El rango de distribucin se extienda  Peru y se presentan datos de la planta hospedejera. Se presenta un nuevo caracter de la spermateca y se discute uso el potencial para clarificar las relaciones filogeneticas de los escarabajos eugenysines. 
3999699|The larva of Phloeodes diabolicus (Coleoptera: Zopheridae) is characterized and the relationship of the Zopheridae to other heteromerous beetles is discussed.
4000167|A new species, Actenodes davidi, from Missouri, Mississippi, and Texas is described, and a key to the species of Actenodes found in North America north of Mexico is included.
3999777|Biological and distributional data are presented for certain species in the following genera of Buprestidae: Hippomelas, Melanophila, Chrysobothris, Polycesta, Acmaeoderoides, and Agrilus.
4007978|A rearing procedure for anthicid larvae is described, the larvae of the family are characterized (sensu stricto) with a key to the known genera, and descriptions of the larvae of Mecynotarsus, Tanarthrus, Thicanus, Formicilla, Malporus, Anthicus, Omonadus, Notoxus, and Vacusus are presented. Familial classification of anthicids and some other cucujoid genera is discussed, and a summary of the known biologies of anthicids is presented.
3999653|After considering the similarities and differences in imaginal and larval characters of the 3 families, they appear to be phylogenetically related and to have evolved in the following phylogenetic sequence: 1. Tetratomidae. 2. Mycetophagidae. 3. Melandryidae.
4008387|A new genus and species, Lepismadora algodones Velten, of the agriline tribe Coroebini is described from southeastern California. The genus is compared with its tribal relatives from North and South America and its apparent closest relative, Eudiadora Obenberger, from Argentina.
4009982|The diversity of carabid assemblages at newly established field margins was compared to the diversity in surrounding fields and woodland habitats at Dongbeiwang village, Beijing. Carabids were sampled using 6 pitfalls per plot at a total of 12 plots in the year 2000. Although sampled only a year after their establishment, field margins harbored the most abundant and diverse carabids assemblages of all sites. More than a quarter of carabid species encountered were furthermore restricted to catches from field margins. Also woodland and fields under rotational wheat/maize cultivation harbored some unique species. Therefore, a short term establishment of field margins is effective in enhancing diversity and abundance of carabids, an important predator group in the agricultural landscape, while only the preservation of a heterogeneous landscape will enable the conservation of the overall species diversity.
4008271|Larvae of Ischalia vancouverensis Harrington have been collected from fungal mycelia associated with decaying logs in Oregon and northern California. Identity of the larvae was suspected from associations with adults on the fungi and confirmed by rearing. The mature larva is described and illustrated. The presence of a single pair of stemmata, a mandibular penicillus and lack of urogomphi and urogomphal pits preclude the placement of Ischalia within the Pyrochroidae and indicate a close relationship with the Anthicidae.
3999643|Organs of possible stridulatory function are described from the genera Laccophilus, Agabus, Carrhydrus, Colymbetes, Cybister, and Hydaticus. Five major types of organs are recognized on the basis of the portions of the body on which they are found: file on submentum, plectrum on labial palpus; file on metacoxa, plectrum on metafemur; file on abdominal sterna, plectrum on metafemur; file on metafemur, plectrum on abdominal sterna; and file on protarsal article 2, plectrum on protibia. With a few exceptions these organs are restricted to, or best developed on, males.
3999996|Adults of this genus are distinguished from those of other selenophorines by a combination of front tibia markedly broadened with crenulate outer margin, and elytral striae 2 and 5 each with a row of setigerous punctures. Adults of the two allopatric species of Anisocnemus are distinguished from one another by differences in form of the pronotum and by presence or absence of adhesive vestiture on the ventral surfaces of the middle tarsi of males. A. validus Chaudoir, 1843, is known only from northeastern South America (Venezuela), and A. amblygonus, new species (type locality--Mexico, Oaxaca, La Ventosa), ranges from the Tropic of Cancer on the Pacific coast of Mexico to northwestern South America. Relationships of Anisocnemus cannot be detailed because the probable sister group was not identified. The suggested pattern of evolution is: origin of a stock with adults adapted for burrowing in the lowland tropics of northern South America; dispersal in late Tertiary or early Quaternary, followed by isolation in separate refugia of the descendants of the original dispersing stock; differentiation, followed by re-dispersal. The northernmost stock which gave rise to A. amblygonus may have survived either in a refugium in northernmost South America, or else in one in Middle America. Because adults fly readily, dispersal into Middle America could have occurred before that area and South America were connected by a land bridge.
4009596| The larvae of two cetoniine scarab beetles, Hoplopyga singularis (Gory and Percheron) from Brazil and Hologymnetis cinerea (Gory and Percheron) from Mexico, are described. The latter is the first description of a larva in this genus. Both of these species are included in a revised key to the larvae of New World Gymnetini (Scarabaeidae: Cetoniinae), which now includes ten species in eight genera. /// Se describen las larvas de dos cetoninos, Hoplopyga singularis (Gory and Percheron) de Brasil y de Hologymnetis cinerea (Gory and Percheron) de Mxico, siendo esta ltima, la primera descripcin larvaria para el gnero Hologymnetis. Se aporta una nueva clave de identificacin para las especies de Gymnetini (Scarabaeidae: Cetoniinae) del Nuevo Mundo, incluyendo un total de diez especies y ocho gneros. 
4007991|Chaudoir's works indicate his interest in Carabidae of the tribe Harpalini. To honor him and extend his work I here summarize my studies on South American species of Anisotarsus Chaudoir (a subgenus of Notiobia Perty), with emphasis on Andean forms. The ten valid South American species occur primarily in temperate lowlands or in the Andes. Fog provides moisture for several species. Body size varies with environment. Higher desiccation stress, stronger predator pressure and higher mean annual temperatures favor larger size while the converse favor smaller. The postulated evolution of the species agrees with the taxon pulse of Erwin (1979) except that for Anisotarsus the "generalists" originated in temperate lowland grasslands. Speciation rates vary greatly within both lowland and montane forms. Examination of a vicariance model for evolution suggests a corresponding model whereby paleontological data may cause over estimation of speciation time. Much of the paper treats geographical differentiation of forms in Pleistocene and post Pleistocene refugia. In six places, N. peruviana, the primary test organism, exhibits uniformity among populations in values for presumably independently evolved character states. I hypothesize that evolution in isolated core areas or refugia during drier-warmer climates caused this uniformity. Testing of the hypothesis by Popper's criteria fails to falsify it and indicates that: geological data support postulated climatic cycles; boundaries of refugia correspond with barriers activated by drier-warmer climates; other terrestrial organisms probably evolved in similar refugia; and local selection does not adequately explain the observed geographical variation of N. peruviana.
41314173|Hemiphileurus panamanius Ratcliffe and Curoe, new species, is described from Panama, with supporting illus trations, a diagnosis, and distribution. A revised key to the 11 species of Hemiphileurus Kolbe occurring in Panama is provided.
4008567| Belionota sphenopteroides Pringuey is proposed as a new junior synonym of Chrysobothris fatalis Harold. New adult host and distribution records or new larval host records are presented for 58 species of southern African Buprestidae belonging to the genera: Julodis, Neojulodis, Acmaeodera, Nothomorpha, Catoxantha, Steraspis, Evides, Chalcoplia, Oedisterna, Psiloptera, Chalcogenia, Anthaxia, Anadora, Phlocteis, Pseudophlocteis, Alissoderus, Asymades, Meliboeus, Pseudokamosia, Kamosiella, Kamosia, Pseudagrilus, Agrilomorpha, Agrilus, Sjoestedtius and Trachys. Changes in botanical nomenclature for three previously recorded host plant/buprestid associations are mentioned for Sphenoptera (Tropeopeltis) loranthiphaga, Cupriscobina loranthae and Galbella (Xenogalbella) hantamensis. 
3999648|A key is given to the genera of the subfamily Lispininae of America north of Mexico. A full generic description, distributional notes, and a habitus illustration of a member of each of the following genera is presented: Thoracophorus Motschulsky, Clavilispinus Bernhauer, Renardia Motschulsky, Eleusis Laporte, Nacaeus Bernhauer and Lispinus Erichson.
3999494|Coleop. Bull. A new species based upon a single female specimen is described from a small mountain stream near Rayon, Chiapas, Mexico. The holotype is in the Stovall Museum of Science and History at the University of Oklahoma, Norman. Dorsal and ventral aspects of the specimen are figured, and a key separating the three known species of Elmoparnus is presented. E. mexicanus sp. n. differs from the other species in being larger, in lacking a narrow extension at the apex of the prosternal process, and in other details.
4008881| Additions and changes to the recent catalog of Mordellidae of America north of Mexico are reported based on information from the literature. The following generic names are added: Paramordellaria Ermisch, which contains carinata (Smith) and triloba (Say); Yakuhananomia Kno, which contains bidentata (Say); Tolidomordella Ermisch, which contains discoidea discoidea (Melsheimer) and discoidea flaviventris (Smith); and Hoshihananomia Kno, which contains inflammata (LeConte), octopunctata (Fabricius) and perlineata (Fall). The tribe Conaliini Ermisch is added; it contains Glipodes LeConte, Conalia Mulsant and Rey and Isotrilophus Liljeblad. A few other changes or additions are noted, a few localities are added and some problems are discussed. 
4009420| The North American genus Malporus Casey is revised for the first time. Three species are found in the eastern North America, and are most commonly collected in riparian areas or in salt marshes: M. cinctus (Say), M. formicarius (LaFert-Snectre), M. properus Casey. A new species from the Southwestern United States, M. werneri, is described, and M. blandus Casey is here placed as a junior synonym of M. properus, new synonym. Anthicus formicarius LaFert-Snectre is designated as the type species of Malporus. 
4008036|Hymenorus rufohumeralis, a new species from California, is described, illustrated, and compared with other species of the genus.
4008506|Sumitrosis gracilis (Horn) is redescribed and transferred to Anisostena (Anisostena). Distribution for this species is southern Texas and Mexico.
3999872| A new North American record of Microtheca picea (Gurin) is based upon two specimens collected in Alabama. This beetle's closest relative in North America, M. ochroloma Stl, is also a species introduced into Alabama and one of economic significance on cruciferous crops. Reference to their South American counterparts is made, a key to distinguish these two species is presented. 
3999693|Fossil specimens of Ptinus priminidi, new species, are described; they were collected from 3 fossil wood rat (Neotoma sp.) middens in the arid mountains of southeastern California and western Arizona. The ptinid specimens lived approximately 12,300, 13,400, and 30,000 years before the present, based on radiocarbon analysis of plant debris found in the midden. Various interpretations of the term "fossil" are discussed. For catalogue purposes, "fossil" may be defined as: A specimen, a replacement of a specimen, or the work or evidence of a specimen that lived in the past and was naturally preserved rather than buried by man.
4009678|A new species of the genus Lignyodes Dejean, which is a new representative of the genus and the tribe Lignyodini Bedel, was discovered in Japan on the eastern periphery of the Palaearctic region. It is described herein as L. japonicus new species. The discovery of this species shows the discontinuous distribution of this genus in East Asia-North America, and Europe, with the Bering Arc relationship in the temperate region of the northern hemisphere. This species is very rare in collections and no biological information is available. The probable host and distribution in Japan are predicted from previous records of related species.
4008654| Known aspects of the life history and habits of Pleurotobia tristigmata (Er.) are described based on observation of material collected in the field and reared in the laboratory. Individuals inhabit fruiting bodies of a variety of fleshy and leathery polypore fungi, especially species of Grifola, Laetiporus and Trametes. Among gilled mushrooms, they were found commonly only on species of Pleurotus. Adults fed primarily on fly larvae, but were rarely observed to feed on the host fungus, and larvae were observed to feed only on nematodes on the host fungus. Females lay eggs singly in cracks and depressions in the host. Average duration of developmental stages at room temperature (22-25C) in days were: egg, 1.2; instar I, 1.4; instar II, 1.5; instar III, 5.6; prepupa 1.5; pupa, 5.0. Development from oviposition to adult emergence required an average of 16.4 days. The differences in life history strategy between the mostly predacious bolitocharines, which lay eggs singly and have a relatively long larval life, and the closely related but fungivorus gyrophaenines, which lay eggs in clusters and have very rapid larval development, are discussed. Early and late instar larvae are described, and illustrations of diagnostic features are provided. 
4009065|Two new species, Aridius spathe and A. hemicarinatus, from the Falkland Islands are described and illustrated. Aridius malouinensis (Champion) is diagnosed and illustrated. A key to three known Aridius Motschulsky species from the Falkland Islands area is provided. Comparisons to described South American species are made.
27571097|The cave-associated Pselaphinae of Indiana are listed with their collection data, and a key is provided to the species of Batrisini. Batrisodes krekeleri Park 1960 is placed as a junior synonym of B. hairstoni Park 1947, and both sexes are redescribed. This uncommonly collected species has been taken only at cave entrances in southeastern Indiana, and its ecology is briefly discussed.
4009853| Examination of the holotype and comparison to other material reveal that the monotypic genus Longasphaera Bechyn is a junior synonym of Omophoita Chevrolat new synonymy. Therefore, the type species of Longasphaera, L. hispicornis Bechyn is given a new combination, O. hispicornis (Bechyn). Omophoita hispicornis is illustrated for the first time and characteristics of its labral setation that partially define the Bechyn concept of genus Omophoita are discussed. 
4010018|Male adults of the firefly Pyrocoelia pectoralis discharge fluids from along elytral and pronotal margins and around the antennal sockets, but females when tactually stimulated only discharge fluids from pronotal margins and antennal sockets. Both genders, when disturbed, may also occasionally discharge fluid from the anus. With regard to its content of haemocytes and proteins, the discharged fluid conforms to haemolymph. A series of circular, but irregularly spaced depressions in the insect's cuticle along the pronotal and elytral margins seems to be related to the 'reflex-bleeding' response. Each depression features a centrally-placed columnar structure, which is connected to its surroundings by a thin membrane that easily ruptures and, once broken, initiates reflex-bleeding. The whitish and viscous blood oozing out is very effective in repelling ants. Reflex-bleeding in the adults of Pyrocoelia pectoralis seems associated with thanatosis and luminescence and, thus, supports other defense reactions that the beetle has at its disposal.
