10.2307/1521405| I evaluated consequences of collecting blood samples from adults and chicks at a Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) colony on Lake Erie in 1992. The capture and blood sampling of 105 adult gulls did not cause permanent nest abandonment and adults returned to their nests in 17.7  16.9 mins (X  1SD). Between 100-150 ul of blood was taken from the jugular vein of 110 chicks within nine days post hatch (mean chick age + 1SD = 2.8  1.8 d). While two chicks died as a result of blood sampling, there was no significant difference between the number of chicks surviving to 21 days in broods where blood was taken from chicks and controls (P > 0.1). These results indicate minimal effect of the procedure. 
10.2307/1520977|In the lower Great Lakes area at least 58 Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) colonies, each containing 50 or more nests, have existed during 1900-1980 or were still active in 1980. Estimated nest numbers increased from 4,000-7,000 (during 1900-1920) to a peak of 16,000 in the early 1960s and then declined to 5,000 in the late 1970s. These population changes were greatly influenced by the rise and decline of the ternery at Gull Island, Presqu'ile Provincial Park. Historical data show a shift from western Lake Erie and eastern Lake Ontario as a major breeding area to eastern Lake Erie and western Lake Ontario and the Niagara River. A shift towards the use of man-made sites for nesting has occurred and in 1980 about 70% of all Common Terns nested on seven man-made sites. Permanent desertion by Common Terns of their colonies has resulted from (1) encroachment by vegetation and/or nesting gulls (Ring-billed Gulls Larus delawarensis and Herring Gulls L. argentatus), and (2) recreational and/or industrial activities by man. The following factors have affected reproductive success: predation by birds and mammals, human disturbance and pollution of the terns' aquatic environment. The Great Lakes Common Tern population appears to be fairly discrete with little emigration or immigration taking place. Recently, the weighted mean fledging success for different colonies and different years was 0.89 chicks fledged per nest (virtually the same as the published figure for Massachusetts terneries).
10.2307/1521272|A graphical model of thresholds for colonial nesting in birds, based on the simultaneous influences of food dispersion and the effectiveness of antipredator behavior, can predict the most beneficial nesting dispersion for a given set of circumstances. At extreme levels of prey dispersion (highly uniform and predictable or extremely clumped and unpredictable), nesting dispersions will generally be those maximizing foraging efficiency. At intermediate levels of prey dispersion, antipredator advantages of colonial nesting can favor colonial nesting when, on the basis of prey dispersion, solitary nesting would otherwise be predicted. The model predicts the occurrence of a mixture of solitary and colonially nesting species at given intermediate levels of prey dispersion. Some examples specific to colonially nesting waterbirds are given.
10.2307/1521045|Oological characters and organochlorine concentrations were measured in 10 three-egg clutches of Common Terns. Designating the first, second, and third eggs by A, B, and C, respectively, C-eggs were significantly smaller and lighter than A-eggs and had thinner and lighter shells. Organochlorine concentrations were generally higher by about 20% (range, 0-29%) in C-eggs than in A-eggs. B-eggs were intermediate in most of these respects. The differences in organochlorine concentrations may be related to changes in the lipid balance of females during the egg-laying period. The differences in eggshell thickness were parallel to differences in egg dimensions, and cannot be attributed to the small differences in DDE levels. Implications for the conduct of field studies are discussed.
10.2307/1521317|In contrast to small- and medium-sized seabirds, California Brown Pelicans are little affected in their nesting colonies by introduced small predators such as domestic cats and rats. Conflicts between small introduced mammals and smaller to medium-sized seabirds dictate nonetheless that control and eradication of such predators are highly desirable goals. In one unusual instance where cats regularly preyed-on nestling Brown Pelicans, this occurred only on the colony periphery. The few large pelican young taken by these cats represented, however, the largest prey item known to be taken by feral cats.
10.2307/1521912|We used an aerial photography protocol to estimate the number of Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) staging on Mono Lake in the fall of 1996 and 1997. Three analytical techniques, a non-stratified and two stratified ones, generated similar abundance values for any given date. The stratified by-quartiles method resulted in the lowest percent SEs but this method and the non-stratified one are sensitive to the quantity and quality of photo coverage. The stratified-by-density method was more time/effort consuming and resulted in intermediate percent SEs but is more robust than the other methods. Total abundance differed by < 3% across consecutive days in October, 1997, which suggests that the photo protocol is reliable. Our data indicate that a minimum of 1.5 to 1.6 million grebes were present on the lake in October of each year. When these estimates are corrected for submerged birds, they increase to 1.8 to 2.0 million birds, confirming that Mono Lake is the most important fall staging site for Eared Grebes in North America.
10.2307/1521684|Historic records indicate that Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) were common breeders and abundant during migration on the Upper Mississippi River from St. Paul, Minnesota, to St. Louis, Missouri, during the 1940s and 1950s. Their numbers declined in the mid- to late-1950s, remained low through the 1970s, and began to increase somewhat in the late 1980s. Aerial surveys of migrating cormorants and ground surveys at cormorant colonies during 1991-1993, indicate that numbers have not returned to historic levels. Only 500-2,000 cormorants were seen during spring migration 1992-1993; and 5,000-7,000 during fall migration 1991-1992; whereas, tens of thousands were reported in the 1940s and 1950s. Four hundred ninety-six nests were counted at 4 colonies in 1992, and 545 nests were counted in 9 colonies in 1993; whereas, during the 1940s and 1950s, about 2,500 birds were reported nesting in 4 locations. Pools 6 and 13 have always attracted breeding and migrating cormorants, currently attract the largest numbers of cormorants during migration, and still support breeding colonies.
10.2307/1521289| Patterns of provisioning and growth in Red-tailed Tropicbird chicks (Phathon rubricauda) were studied on Christmas Island and Johnston Atoll, central Pacific Ocean. Spatial and temporal variation in these patterns were examined in relation to the occurrence of El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events. Among ENSO years, provisioning rates differed and in some ENSO years chicks were fed fewer and smaller meals resulting in lower chick masses. Rate of wing growth did not correlate with reduced chick mass on Johnston Atoll, but it did on Christmas Is. where the effects of ENSO events were more severe. During an ENSO event in 1991, the amount of food received daily was higher on Johnston Atoll than on Christmas Is., but chicks on Christmas Is. gained more per gram fed. Chicks did not undergo long periods of fasting even during an ENSO, a postulated cause of slow growth and fat deposition in seabird chicks. Mean number of feeds day<sup>-1</sup> was 0.9 on Christmas Is. and 1.3 on Johnston Atoll. Fledging success ranged from ca. 76% of eggs laid on Christmas Is. to ca. 87% on Johnston atoll. Results of this study do not support the hypothesis that the slow growth of seabird young and attendant life history characteristics are a consequence of energy limitations on adults due to feeding on a distant and variable food source. 
10.2307/1521032|To estimate reproductive success in a population one ideally would like to determine the number of young fledged per nesting female. However, this is difficult because often (1) the adults are not individually marked, (2) the colony is not visited daily, and (3) the investigator is unable to monitor all young until they fledge. If adults are unmarked and successful renesting occurs, reproductive success will be underestimated. If a colony is not visited daily and nests are initiated and lost between visits, reproductive success will be overestimated. The Mayfield method is one approach to overcoming this latter problem. Finally, nestling colonial birds are often able to move away from the nest site well before fledging and thus avoid being detected. To overcome this problem capture-recapture methods and enclosures have been used. In this paper we discuss these limitations and evaluate methods of dealing with them.
10.2307/1521338|The breeding biology of Snow Petrels (Pagodroma nivea) at Robertskollen, a group of nunataks (isolated peaks of land) 130 km from the ice-shelf front in western Dronning Maud Land, Antarctica, is compared with breeding biology at coastal sites. The estimated breeding population of 600 pairs is confined to three of five major nunataks. Nunatak structure, specifically the enhanced protection from drift snow at elevated sites, apparently determines colony dispersion. Most birds are small, falling within the size range of the nominate race, but one large individual may be ascribed to the larger race P. n. major. Birds were incubating when the study started; the first chicks were found on 17 January and hatching probably commenced on 15 January, which suggests that egg-laying started at the beginning of December. Capture resulted in at least 44% of incubating birds deserting. Incubation shifts of marked birds averaged 8.4 days (range 6-10, excluding the short pre-hatching shift), and brooding lasted between 6.5 and 8 days in two or three shifts. The duration of incubation and brood shifts are similar to those of nominate race birds breeding at the coast in Princess Elizabeth Land, but are almost twice as long as those of the large race P. n. major breeding at the Adelie Land coast. This racially consistent difference in the duration of incubation and brood shifts, irrespective of colony distance from the sea, lends support to the hypothesis that there were formerly two isolated populations of Snow Petrels.
10.2307/1521277|The number of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) nesting in colonies located in altered and artificial wetland sites in central and northern Florida ranged between 130 and 160 pairs in 1959-1960, and between 1019 and 2410 pairs in 1976-1986. During these same years, the total population of storks nesting in this same region doubled. Altered colony sites that contained natural wetland vegetation were used for nesting for longer periods of years and had more pairs on average than did entirely natural or artificial colony sites. The increased use of altered sites for nesting could have been a contributing factor in the growth of the central-northern Florida Wood Stork population.
10.2307/1521401|During seabird colony surveys in 1991 and 1994 at the southern California Channel Islands, we discovered Tufted Puffins (Fratercula cirrhata) and Rhinoceros Auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata) attending and probably breeding at one and three colonies, respectively, at San Miguel Island, including Prince Island and Castle Rock, Santa Barbara County. These observations indicate reoccupation by Tufted Puffins of a portion of their former southern breeding limit after several decades of absence, and a southern extension of the known breeding range of Rhinoceros Auklets, in the eastern Pacific Ocean. In California, Tufted Puffins have shown a general decline in numbers and contraction of their breeding range during this century, whereas Rhinoceros Auklets have increased in numbers and expanded their breeding range over the past two decades following historical declines or extirpation.
10.2307/1521692|We studied the responses of 3 heron species, Grey Heron (Ardea cinerea), Great Egret (A. alba) and Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) to different foraging habitats in 2 Greek wetlands of international importance, Lakes Mikri Prespa and Kerkini. These lakes are different in their hydrology, productivity and vegetation cover. Parameters of foraging tactics-such as strike rate, foraging effort expended per min and effort expended per strike-as well as parameters of foraging efficiency-such as striking efficiency, captures per unit effort and biomass intake per unit effort-were analyzed in relation to habitat and lake. Each species adopted different tactics and achieved variable efficiencies in response to the particular lake, habitat conditions and prey characteristics. Little Egrets revealed the greatest plasticity in their foraging repertoire, especially with regard to their mobility and prey preference. Great Egrets and Grey Herons consumed larger amounts of biomass per unit effort than did Little Egrets, with Great Egrets achieving the highest striking efficiency. Riverine habitats proved to be more profitable than marshes for all 3 species, while wet meadows seemed to play a complementary role for herons' foraging.
10.2307/1521254| As part of a study of the foraging ecology of the Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) at the Birdsville colony in east-central Georgia, U.S.A., 130 storks were followed from the colony to foraging sites during the breeding seasons of 1984, 1985, and 1986. Direct distances and total flight times to foraging sites were not significantly different among years. Over 85% of the sites were within 20 km of the colony (x = 12.7  sd 10.5 km) and over 80% of the flights lasted 50 min or less (x = 34.6  sd 30.7 min). Within-season trends for site distance and flight time were significantly different only in 1984, when both were greater in the June-July period than in April-May. Predominantly soaring flights (>75% of flight) occurred more frequently than predominantly flapping flights (>75% of flight) in June-July of 1984 and 1986. The opposite trend occurred in 1985. Storks that soared predominantly went to more distant sites (x = 15.8  sd 11.1 km) than those whose flights were predominantly flapping (x = 8.3  sd 6.1 km). Orientations of feeding sites from the colony were significantly different each year; however, only the 1985 site orientations were non-uniform. 
10.2307/1521542|The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has two somewhat conflicting mandates relative to the cormorant-aquaculture conflict: (1) to promote the development of private aquaculture, and (2) to protect and conserve populations of all species of migratory birds, including cormorants. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's responsibilities for aquaculture are found in the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1934, the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, the Fish-Rice Rotation Farming Program Act of 1958, and the National Aquaculture Act of 1980. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's responsibilities for the management of cormorants dates from 1972, when they were added to the list of migratory bird families protected by the Migratory Bird and Game Mammal Treaty with Mexico (the provisions of which are implemented by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act). In accordance with federal regulations, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service issues depredation permits to aquaculturists, in consultation with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, for the limited take of cormorants and other fish-eating birds documented to be causing detrimental economic impacts. The routine issuance of depredation permits is viewed only as an interim measure, pending the eventual development and implementation of non-lethal and other control measures as part of an integrated management program designed to minimize the detrimental impacts of fish-eating birds on aquaculture.
10.2307/1521291| Systematic monitoring of nesting and fledging of American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) breeding on the Molly Islands In Yellowstone Lake was carried on for 20 years between 1966 and 1987. The mean number of pelicans fledged during those years was 214 (196 SD). In five of those years the number of pelicans fledged was at or near zero. In six other years, the number of young pelicans fledged ranged from 302-650, with four of those years producing record numbers of successfully fledged young. Maximum seasonal levels of Yellowstone Lake reaching 1.6 m or more produced complete or near complete reproductive failures. Conversely, years with maximum lake levels never reaching 1.4 m were most likely to have very good to outstanding fledging success. Also, numbers of days when air temperatures of -8.8 C or colder and daily temperature minimums of -16.6 C, as well as the duration of ice cover on Yellowstone Lake were important modifiers of the numbers of pelicans fledged. Unexpected crustal deformations adjacent to and within the Yellowstone Lake basin induced flooding, representing serious geologic threats to the long-term well being of the Molly Island pelican colony. A baseline breeding population of 546 ( 183 SD) adult pelicans was calculated to have supported this Molly Island colony. Also, the percentage of population change in the computed annual life cycle for 1966-87 was +5%. 
10.2307/1521000|The number of nests, habitat selection, and aspects of the breeding of Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) on roofs along the waterfront in downtown Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, were investigated. We estimated that 500 pairs nested in downtown Vancouver in 1986. The number of gulls is expanding in Vancouver and elsewhere along other urban waterfronts in the region. Gulls preferred to nest near water where other gulls were already established. They either nested in small colonies or built scattered, relatively isolated nests on flat roofs of buildings, and on flat portions or near structures on peaked roofs (dispersed nesting). Dispersed gulls nested significantly more often near structures than did gulls nesting in a colony, perhaps because of a limited choice of nest sites at the latter. Egg volumes of early layers were significantly larger than those of late layers in the colony, but the volumes of eggs of early and late dispersed layers were similar. Egg volumes of late nesting colonial birds were significantly smaller than were those of both early and late dispersed layers. Gulls in the colony may have been mostly older birds laying early, and young and inexperienced ones laying late. Dispersed nesters were most likely to be experienced breeders. Gulls in the colony produced significantly less young than did dispersed nesters. One of the main causes of mortality in the colony was attacks by adult gulls on chicks, which apparently resulted from high nesting density, which was conducive to frequent territorial clashes, and the general lack of places for chicks to hide from attacks of adult gulls.
10.2307/1521153|In May of 1983 a small colony of Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) attempted to nest in Pennsylvania on the southern shore of Lake Erie at Presque Isle State Park. This is the first recorded breeding attempt in Pennsylvania for this species. At least 20 nests were constructed with at least three receiving eggs before the site was abandoned.
10.2307/1521762|The efficiency of finding color-banded Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and Lesser Black-backed Gulls (L. fuscus) during repeated visits to a mixed species breeding colony on the Isle of May was investigated. The most efficient period for finding Herring and Lesser Black-backed Gulls was May and June, coincident with the main incubation and early chick-rearing periods. Ten "searches" during that period found 85%-90% of surviving individuals, while 4 searches found >70%. Additional searches produced very few extra birds. When assessing annual survival rates from resightings of color-banded individuals, marking a relatively large study population is a more efficient method of increasing the precision of survival estimates than additional effort searching for remaining, unseen birds.
10.2307/1521435|The areas used for feeding by Blue-eyed Shags (Phalacrocorax atriceps) in two colonies 2.5 km apart were determined using radio-telemetry. Foraging range was extremely limited with most birds feeding within 1 km of their colony. There was no overlap in feeding areas between the two colonies despite their proximity. Significant inter-colony differences in dive duration, maximum dive depth, and diet were found but timing of breeding, chick growth rate, and reproductive output were similar. These results provide support for Cairns' (1989) hinterland model for the regulation of seabird colony size.
10.2307/1521341|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) in extreme northwestern Washington produced few young (0.27/occupied nest) in 1984; the clutch size was generally small and eggs, if laid at all, were laid later than usual. Residues (geometric means, wet weight) of DDE (0.58 and 0.59 ppm) in eggs from Colville Island and Protection Island were lower than from other locations in the Pacific Northwest, while PCBs (2.19 and 1.37 ppm) were similar to those at most locations. Both contaminants in 1984 were below levels associated with reproductive problems. Eggs also contained concentrations of mercury (0.26 and 0.27 ppm) and selenium (0.31 and 0.28 ppm) below levels associated with reproductive problems. The distribution of nesting colonies in the study area changed dramatically since 1984. The cormorants were most likely responding to increased human disturbance in the San Juan Islands, coupled to additional protection and reduced human activity on Protection and Smith Islands. This presumably led to the abandonment of all nesting islands in the San Juans. The nesting population in the study area in 1988 (all on Protection and Smith Islands) was the highest recorded.
10.2307/1521465|Former captive Lesser, Caribbean and Chilean flamingos have been repeatedly observed at the Greater Flamingo breeding colony in the Camargue (Southern France) where they have been seen in displaying flocks of the local species. The latter two have bred on occasions. Pairing and copulations attempts have been observed between Carribean and Greater as well as between Chilean and Greater flamingos. The potential threats caused by the establishment of exotic flamingos in Europe are discussed.
10.2307/1521964|From 1986 to 1991, four heron species and Pygmy Cormorants (Phalacrocorax pygmeus) which form mixed-species breeding colonies shifted their colony site in relation to wet and dry conditions. The total number of nesters was probably lower than in other years. Cormorants moved to a new nesting site, the number of nesters remaining within observed fluctuations. Egg laying was not delayed. Some early nests of pelicans (Dalmatian, Pelecanus crispus, and Great White, P. onocrotalus) at traditional sites were destroyed by predators due to connection with land. Both pelican species delayed egg laying and finally nested on artificial islands not available in normal years. The number of nesting attempts was high for Dalmatian and low for Great White Pelicans. The inverse was observed for breeding success.
10.2307/1521298|We examined the influence of man-made structures on the distribution of Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) colonies in the lower Chesapeake Bay, Virginia, USA. Colony sites were situated farther from man-made structures and in areas where the density of structures was lower when compared with randomly located sites on the coastal plain. The spatial pattern of structures around colony sites relative to random sites suggests that the area of influence was restricted to 400-800 m. Area of influence was found to vary according to structure type.
10.2307/1521609|Despite the death of her mate during the incubation period and a shortage (or lack of availability) of food in nearby waters, a female Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) nesting at the Falkner Island Unit of the Stewart B. McKinney National Wildlife Refuge in Connecticut was able to raise a chick to fledging in 1995 without human assistance. The growth and development of this chick was slower than that of other single chicks in the colony; it never weighed more than 90 g and did not fledge until 32 days of age. Despite this exceptional female's ability to rear a chick on her own, this observation supports the idea that biparental care is important in Roseate Terns, particularly during years of food shortage.
10.2307/1521316| Observations were made on North American Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) and Elegant Terns (Sterna elegans) wintering near Mollendo, on the coast of southern Peru. Common Terns foraged over the wave-washed zone, fed almost exclusively on sand crabs (Emerita analoga), and generally were in good condition (they had normal body masses and rarely showed oil stains). The majority (68%-86%) of 22 collected Common Terns were adults judging from the molts of primaries. Common Terns were subject to Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus) depredation. Elegant Terns foraged offshore, just beyond the swell, and fed exclusively on fish. The terns appeared free of oil stains. The molt of their primaries showed great variability. Elegant Terns were frequently attacked by jaegers (mostly Stercorarius parasiticus). /// Se ha observado que los Gaviotnes comnes (Sterna hirundo) y los Gaviotnes elegantes (Sterna elegans) invernan cerca de Mollendo, en la costa sur del Per. Los Gaviotnes comnes sobrevuelan en la zona que lamen las olas y se alimentan casi exclusivamente con cangrejos "mui-muy" (Emerita analoga), y generalmente se encuentran en buenas condiciones (tienen peso normal y raremente muestran manchas de petrleo). La majoria (68%-86%) de los 22 Gaviotnes comnes que atrapamos eran adultos a juzgar por las mudas de las plumas primarias. El Halcn real (Falco peregrinus) es un depredador de los Gaviotnes comnes. Los Gaviotnes elegantes sobrevuelan mar adentro, fuera del oleaje, y se alimentan exclusivamente de peces. Los Gaviotnes parecen sin manchas de petrleo. La muda de las plumas primarias muestra una gran variedad. Los Gaviotines elegantes fueron atacados frecuentemente por los Salteadores (en su majoria Stercorarius parasiticus). 
10.2307/1521901|We examined diversity measures of the colonial-nesting waterbird community in Galveston Bay Estuary from 1973-1990 to determine if trends were apparent at three levels of ecological organization (i.e., community, assemblage, and population), each representing a different level of data aggregation. The community was dominated numerically by the Laughing Gull (Larus atricilla), a species with the lowest annual variability. In general, species that exhibited high annual variability also had low mean abundances [e.g., Anhinga (Anhinga anhinga) and Yellow-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax violaceus)]. White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) and Sandwich Tern (Sterna sandvicensis) were unusual in that they were both highly variable and abundant. Trend analyses of the abundances of individual species showed that Roseate Spoonbill (Ajaia ajaja), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), and Black Skimmer (Rynchops niger) declined significantly. Neotropical Cormorant (Phalacrocorax brasilianus) and Sandwich Tern increased significantly, and the remaining 13 species showed no statistical change. A classification analysis identified five species assemblages. Two assemblages increased significantly in abundance, one assemblage decreased significantly, and two assemblages showed no change. At the community level, none of the indices we examined showed a significant change over the 18-year period. We hypothesized that loss of coastal marsh vegetation and the development of favorable feeding conditions outside of Galveston Bay may have caused some of the population changes we identified. Our ability to identify trends was affected by the level of data aggregation. Community measures were less sensitive to change than were assemblage and population-level data.
10.2307/1521088|During a 10-yr period, 28-45 pairs of Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) have nested annually on the perimeter of the Ring-billed Gull (L. delawarensis) colony at Rogers City, Michigan. This represents about 4% of the total number of Herring Gull pairs present on the peninsula during this period. Herring Gulls choosing to nest close to Ring-bills do so in order to be near a preferred food source-Ring-bill eggs and young. The mean distance between perimeter Herring Gull nests and Ring-bill nests was 2.05 m. Aggressive encounters between the two species were regular but variable as some Herring Gulls appeared more tolerant of nearby Ring-bills. About half of the perimeter Herring Gulls preyed on Ring-bill eggs and young. About 78% of their capture attempts were successful. The mean number of chicks taken per observation hour was 0.19. Based on Ring-billed Gull reproductive rates for this colony and the observed predation rates for Herring Gulls, we calculated that about 10% of eggs and chicks lost annually are attributable to Herring Gull predation.
10.2307/1521339|Recent concern about the population size of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) in the Great Lakes region led to a two-year study on the status and breeding success of Common Terns in Minnesota. All known colonies were censused in 1984; breeding success was monitored at the Duluth sites in 1983 and at all sites in 1984. Colony sizes ranged from 20-489 pairs and approximately 880 pairs of terns nested in Minnesota in 1984; the current breeding population is estimated to be a third the size of the Common Tern population in Minnesota in the 1930's. Breeding success was estimated at 0.15 fledglings/pair; 6% of the eggs laid survived to fledging. Assuming no immigration occured, Minnesota terns did not produce enough young during the study to maintain the current population size. Factors contributing to nest failure included: storm damage, use of poor quality nesting habitat, predation, nest site competition with gulls and human disturbance. Recommendations for conservation and management include population monitoring, protection and enhancement of tern breeding habitat and exclusion of breeding Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) from tern colony sites.
10.2307/1521230|Discriminant analysis was used to identify the sexes of fledglings and yearlings in the Magellanic Penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus). Eleven morphometric measurements were recorded in a sample of 102 fledglings and 140 yearlings from the breeding stock at Punta Clara, Chubut, Argentina. Total (body) length and bill depth were the most useful variables for discriminating between age classes, followed by length of the middle toe and bill length. Yearling, besides being distinguishable by plumage, were invariably bigger than fledglings. For distinguishing the sexes among yearlings, bill depth and tarsus length proved useful; 95.7% of cases were correctly classified (Chi square, p <0.001). In fledglings, two variables, bill depth and length of middle toe correctly classified 93.1% of cases (Chi square p <0.001). This method provides a simple and objective way of identifying the sex of the Magellanic Penguin eliminating the subjective factors and placing emphasis on the more significant morphological characters.
10.2307/1521484| Although crching behavior has been observed in several colonial waterbird species, its precise causation remains largely unexplored. Previous studies have mainly considered adaptive benefits such as reduced risk of predation through a dilution effect or enhanced thermoregulation. Recently, it has been proposed that adult aggressiveness is an important proximate factor underlying the dynamics of crche formation. Here, we report first results from a study of the crching behavior of the Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) in the Camargue, in southern France. Aggressiveness of parents towards conspecifics and alien chicks varied with the development stage of their own chick and decreased when the parent's own chick was in the crche. The present study supports the idea that adult aggression levels directly affect the development of chick crching behavior. /// Bien que la formation de crche soit observe chez plusieurs espces d'oiseaux coloniaux aquatiques, les mcanismes et les fonctions de ce systme d'levage de poussins restent inexplors. Les tudes prcdentes ont surtout voqu les avantages de ce comportement tel que la protection contre des prdateurs ou les rigueurs climatiques. Rcemment, il a t propos de prendre en compte l'agressivit des adultes comme facteur proximal principal de la dynamique de formation de crche chez le Flamant rose en Camargue, France. L'agressivit des parents envers leurs voisins et les poussins trangers varie avec le dveloppement de leur propre poussin et diminue quand ce dernier entre en crche. Cette tude supporte l'ide que le niveau d'aggressivit des adultes sur l'ilt de nidification influe sur le comportement de crche des poussins. 
10.2307/1521957|The Ebro Delta rice fields in eastern Spain are used by waterbirds mainly as foraging habitats since other uses, such as nesting, are restricted to a few species. The availability of freshwater wetlands in the Ebro Delta depends chiefly on the hydrological cycle derived from rice culture. We present data on seasonal variation in availability of potential waterbird prey items (macroinvertebrates and vertebrates) in the Ebro Delta rice field system, and discuss their relevance for waterbird populations living there during an annual cycle. Biomass/length predictive equations are presented for those prey items relevant to waterbird populations.
10.2307/1521900| I studied the breeding biology of the Maguari Stork (Ciconia maguari) during the breeding season of 1989 at a 78,000-ha cattle ranch located in the southern llanos of Venezuela. I surveyed the whole study area in May-June and found 113 nests; 12 nests were solitary, the other 101 were distributed among four large colonies. Seventy-one nests were marked and monitored throughout the breeding season. Maguari Storks laid eggs between June and September, most in late June and early August. Average clutch size was 3.08 eggs (range: 2-4; N = 60). Incubation period was 28-32 days. Fledglings left their nest at the age of 59-74 days. Nest success was 33.8%, ranging from 16.6% in solitary nests to 47.6% in one of the colonies. Productivity (fledglings/active nest) was 0.67 (N = 48 fledglings). Only 19.7% of eggs produced fledglings. Mortality rates were 43.2% for eggs and 65.2% for chicks. The results are compared with data from other geographical areas. The severe drought of 1989 was probably the main cause of the low nesting success observed. /// Durante la temporada de cra de 1989, se estudi la biologa reproductiva de la Cigea Maguari (Ciconia maguari) en una finca ganadera de 78,000 ha situada en los llanos inundables de Venezuela. En los meses de mayo y junio se prospect por tierra toda el rea de estudio, localizndose un total 113 nidos activos; 12 de ellos eran solitarios, estando el resto distribudos en cuatro grandes colonias. Un total de 71 nidos fueron marcados y monitoreados durante toda la temporada de cra. La poca de puestas abarc desde mediados de junio hasta mediados de septiembre con dos mximos a fines de junio y a principios de agosto. El tamao medio de puesta fue de 3.08 huevos/nido (rango: 2-4; N = 60), siendo tres huevos el tamao de puesta ms frecuente. El periodo de incubacin fue de 28-32 das. El tiempo de permanencia de los pollos en sus nidos oscil entre los 59 y los 74 das. El 33.8% d los nidos estudiados sacaron adelante al menos un pichn, variando este porcentaje entre un 16.6% de xito en los nidos solitarios y un 47.6% en una de las colonias. La productividad (volantones/nido activo) fue de 0.67 (N = 48 volantones). Tan solo el 19.7% de los huevos produjeron volantones, con tasas de mortalidad del 43.2% para los huevos y del 65.2% para los pichones. Se discuten los resultados comparndolos con datos correspondientes a otras reas geogrficas. La fuerte sequa registrada en los llanos inundables durante el ao 1989 fue probablemente la principal causa del bajo xito reproductivo observado. 
10.2307/1521155|Histoplasma capsulatum, a fungus causing histoplasmosis, was associated with a gull colony site in Michigan, USA. Tuberculosis-like symptoms developed by students working in this colony were traced to Histoplasma infection. H. capsulatum grows within soils having high nitrogen and organic content including rotting wood, compost piles and poultry farms. Several precautions can be taken by researchers working in colonies. If such precautions are followed, there is no public health justification for destruction of such colonies.
10.2307/1521167| This paper reports discriminant functions for predicting the sex of King Cormorants (Phalacrocorax albiventer) using external measurements. Eleven morphometric measurements were recorded for the analysis, from 84 specimens of known sex, at Punta Loberia, Chubut, Argentina. Body weight, bill depth, total length, and exposed culmen were the most useful variables in discriminating sexes. Using two variables (total length and bill depth), 96.5% of the cases were correctly identified. Using three variables (body weight, bill depth and exposed culmen), the classification accuracy was 95.1%. /// En este trabajo se presentan dos funciones discriminantes que permiten predecir el sexo de Phalacrocorax albiventer mediante el empleo de medidas morfolgicas. En el anlisis discriminante fueron utilizadas 11 medidas morfolgicas, practicadas a 84 ejemplares de sexo conocido. Las muestras fueron recolectadas en la colonia de Punta Loberia, Chubut (Argentina). Los resultados sealan que el peso total del cuerpo, la altura del pico, el largo total del cuerpo y el largo del culmen expuesto son las variables de mayor importancia en cuanto a su poder discriminante. En las funciones de clasificacin obtenidas se utilizan dos y tres variables. Cuando se us la funcin con dos variables (largo total del cuerpo y altura del pico) fueron correctamente clasificados el 96.5% de los ejemplares. Al usarse tres variables (peso total del cuerpo, altura del pico y largo del culmen expuesto) se clasific en forma correcta al 95.1% de los casos. 
10.2307/1520984|Eggs of Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) were collected in 1979 from two colonies in North Carolina, two colonies in Rhode Island, and one colony in Massachusetts. Mean concentrations of DDE and PCBs were higher in the New England samples than in those from North Carolina. Mean concentrations of organochlorine contaminants in addled eggs collected at two New England colonies were not significantly different from those in randomly selected eggs. In comparison with the results of a similar study conducted in 1973 at two of the New England colonies, concentrations of DDE in night-heron eggs were lower in 1979, DDD was less frequently detected, DDT and dieldrin were less frequently detected in eggs from one of the two colonies, and eggshell thickness was greater in 1979 for one of the colonies. PCB concentrations in eggs from one colony were lower in 1979 than 1973.
10.2307/1521538|Control strategies to reduce predation by wintering Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) include use of frightening devices to harass the birds at the damage site and overhead wire barrier systems to exclude them. Pyrotechnics, human effigies, gas cannons, and live ammunition have been used with varying degrees of success in frightening cormorants. Important points when using frightening strategies include the timing of their application and the choice of devices employed. An aggressive and integrated frightening program is essential. Dispersing cormorants from their nighttime roosts has been shown to be effective in reducing cormorant numbers in the foraging area of the roost. Other potential control strategies include the use of buffer prey populations and modifications in facility design and management.
10.2307/1521496| Breeding success and growth of single and twinned Cape Gannet (Morus capensis) chicks under natural and supplementary food regimes were studied at Malgas Island, Saldanha Bay, South Africa. Age differences between chicks in artificially twinned broods were set at 0, 5, and 10 days in 1986-87, and 0 and 5 days in 1987-88. The additional food supplied was ca 5% of the body mass (25% of chicks daily food intake). The number of fledglings per nest (singletons and twins pooled) by controls (0.72  0.07 (S.E.), N = 85) and food supplemented birds (0.78  0.07, N = 78) did not differ significantly. A total of 159 (out of 273) chicks died, of which 75% died by starvation. Mortality was high during the first 20 days and decreased significantly with age. No significant differences in mortality rate were observed between control and food supplemented chicks. Masses of twinned chicks did not differ from masses of singletons. The growth parameters of fledging mass, length of fledging period, and age at maximum body mass did not differ significantly between control chicks and those provided with extra food. Brood-type effect was significant only on maximum body mass attained by chicks. Chick begging frequency was higher in <sub>0-5</sub>twins than in <sub>0-0</sub>twins or singletons, however, the number of parental feeds per chick was similar in all brood types. Success rate (the percentage of begging bouts that resulted in parental feeding) was significantly higher in <sub>0-0</sub>twins and singletons than in <sub>0-5</sub>twins. Success rate, begging frequency and priority ratio (the probability that one chick obtained food first when both chicks begged simultaneously) were similar between a- and b-chicks in twins. The results suggest that chicks regulate their food intake and cannot increase their growth rate in response to the extra food. The mechanism for this is probably a behavioral feed-back link to adult provisioning rate. The study does not support the hypothesis of Cape Gannet numbers being limited by food during the breeding season (Ashmole's hypothesis), suggesting instead high food availability during the study period. 
10.2307/1521172|Aspects of the Cattle Egret's reproductive ecology and habitat use in an insular environment were studied on Montserrat, West Indies. Average size of 290 nests (17.9 cm) was smaller than sizes reported in the literature and was attributed to a paucity of available nesting materials. We measured 330 eggs to determine: egg volume (24,117.04 mm<sup>3</sup>), fresh egg weight (24.4 g), egg weight loss during incubation (2.9 g), pipping egg ("star pips" only) weight (21.5 g), egg length (45.56 mm), egg breadth (32.22 mm), and a species-specific egg weight constant K<sub> w</sub> (= 0.506) (where K<sub> w</sub> is fresh egg weight divided by egg length times the square of the egg breadth or W/ LB<sup>2</sup>). Comparative data suggest that clutch-size in this species increases with latitude, but egg size does not. Nest placement within the vegetation and within the colony (core vs. peripheral sites) was studied to compare differential habitat use by nesters. Four nest placement parameters were compared for core nests and peripheral nests: nest height (1.8 m vs 2.4 m), distance from trunk (0.4 m vs 0.6 m), distance from the distal end of the branch (0.89 m vs 0.77 m), and (nearest neighbor distance 52.4 cm vs 56.4 cm). We hypothesized that under keen interspecific competition for nest sites in mixed-species heronries, each species should be forced into a narrower habitat niche (narrower vertical stratification and horizontal partitioning of habitat) than if it nests in monospecific colonies but only nest height substantiated the hypothesis. The Cattle Egret may be having a deleterious impact on the small tidal mangrove forest ecosystem found at Fox's Bay, Montserrat in conjunction with a multiplicity of environmental and ecological factors, including natural storms, wood-cutting, over-grazing by farm animals, reduced flooding, siltation, and soil compaction.
10.2307/1521258|Of the twenty or so stork species recognized worldwide, seven species are considered by the ICBP/IWRB Specialist Group on Storks, Ibises and Spoonbills as either endangered, vulnerable, indeterminate (and presumably falling into one of these categories), or "of special concern." These include the Greater Adjutant (south Asia), Lesser Adjutant, Milky Stork, and Storm's Stork (southeast Asia), Oriental White Stork (east Asia), Black Stork (Palearctic), and the Shoebill (Africa). Nine additional stork species are threatened at a regional level. The known world and/or regional status of each species is summarized, and conservation priorites for critical species are outlined. The storks are relatively poorly known in comparison to other large wading birds, e.g. cranes and herons, and research is badly needed on the majority of species. South and southeast Asia have the richest stork diversity and most urgent conservation problems for these and other wetland species. Ongoing conservation activities and recommendations are discussed for the majority of stork species.
10.2307/1521856| Wetlands in the prairie pothole region of the U.S. can support large heronries which develop during prolonged flooding and wet-dry cycles. An estimated 5,949 breeding ardeid pairs comprised of 95% Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis), 2% Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax), 2% Great Egrets (Ardea alba), <1% Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula), and <1% Little Blue Herons (E. caerulea) nested in a heronry in the prairie pothole region of South Dakota in 1995. An abundance of aquatic foraging habitat during a wet hydrologic period was a major factor influencing heronry establishment. Nesting species were vertically stratified (X nest height) with largest species nesting highest. The heronry developed from a core area that increased in nest density until saturated, followed by peripheral expansion. Vertical and horizontal nest position may have been a function of timing of nest initiation, nest density, and intraspecific competition. 
10.2307/1521257|The United States population of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) has been declining over the past 50 years and was included on the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service endangered species list in 1984. The decline has been attributed largely to loss of foraging habitat, particularly habitat that is important during the breeding season. We have attempted to develop a method of mapping and estimating the area of available foraging habitat through a coordination of satellite imagery (thematic mapping) and ground observations. We considered the area surrounding the Birdsville Wood Stork colony in east-central Georgia, USA, in 1984. Habitat types can be estimated with 95% accuracy. Individual feeding sites can be identified with 74% accuracy, which is comparable to other studies. Difficulties remain in identifying appropriate sites in cypress and hardwood swamps because the vegetation structure prohibits the determination of water depth by satellite imagery. Some swamps may be too deep, other bottomlands may be dry and so inappropriate for stork foraging. Swamps are an important foraging habitat for storks and more work is needed to solve this problem. We estimated that 1.14% of the area surrounding colony consisted of shallow ponds and marshes. An additional 11 and 19% of the area included cypress swamps and bottomland hardwood swamps.
10.2307/1521454|Although recent field guides have helped considerably in the identification of seabirds, criteria given for identifying some eastern Pacific Ocean species of gadfly petrels (Genus: Pterodroma) at sea are inadequate. We herein present previously undescribed criteria on identification of five problematic groups. We also review published criteria.
10.2307/1521760|We present new information, on the basis of observations and an analysis of existing but unpublished data, regarding the present status of the Hawaiian Petrel on Kauai. A consistently used rafting area just offshore of Hanalei, on the north shore of Kauai, is described for the first time. Observations made there in June and July 1993 and 1994, indicate that the population frequenting breeding colonies, on the order of > 1000 birds per night during the peak of the visitation cycle, is much larger than previously thought. In contrast, few sightings of this species were made elsewhere around the island. Corroborating these observations were records collected by state and federal biologists on fledglings attracted to lights during their initial flight, 1980-1993, indicating a virtual confinement of the population to the north shore. Data presented also indicate that the nesting season on Kauai may be a few weeks later than on Maui, the only locale where extensive research has been conducted on this species. On Kauai, increasing numbers of Hawaiian Petrel fledglings are being found each year. We propose that this is a result of the increasing numbers of coastal lights, and not an increase in the petrel's population. The increasing numbers found have implications for conservation of this species' population on Kauai.
10.2307/1521175|We observed adult and juvenile little egrets in the Camargue, France, during the summer of 1984. Adults and juveniles differed in the way they foraged and in the efficiency of foraging. However, differences were only significant when comparing solitary birds. Lower foraging efficiency of juveniles appeared to be related to postural adjustment. Alternatively, the differences could have been related to local enhancement and scanning for predators. The results implicate the importance of predation pressure during early experience on the development of vigilance behavior.
10.2307/1521616|Eggs of Black Terns (Chlidonias niger) were collected from 8 sites in southern Quebec (6 sites in 1989, 1 in 1992 and 1 in 1993) and from 5 sites in southern Ontario (1 in 1993 and 4 in 1996). Four to 16 eggs per site were pooled and analyzed for organochlorines (OCs). Eggs collected from Quebec were analyzed also for mercury, lead and cadmium. Thickness measurements were taken on all eggshells. The ranges of OC contaminant values (ug g<sup>-1</sup>, wet weight) for the 13 site pools were as follows: total (Sum) PCBs = 0.46 to 3.72, PCBs (1:1) = 0.94 to 5.13, DDE = 0.14 to 0.83, total chlordanes = 0.021 to 0.138, dieldrin = 0.012 to 0.072, mirex = 0.005 to 0.106, b-HCH = Nondetect to 0.026, heptachlor epoxide = 0.004 to 0.021 and HCB = 0.005 to 0.013. There were no significant differences in levels of OCs in eggs between Quebec and Ontario except for PCBs (1:1), which were significantly higher in Quebec samples (2.82 ug g<sup>-1</sup> vs 1.44 ug g<sup>-1</sup>). In eggs from 11 of 13 sites PCB congeners # 118, 138, 153 and 180 were 4 of the 5 most prevalent. Two sites (1 in Ontario and 1 in Quebec) had different congener "signatures", suggesting localized sources within the eastern Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin. OC contaminant levels in Black Tern eggs measured in this study were lower than those reported previously. The ranges of metal concentrations were: total mercury = 0.24 to 0.40, methyl mercury = 0.24 to 0.37, lead = 0.09 to 0.65 and cadmium = 0.02 to 0.11. Eggshells from Quebec were significantly thicker than those from Ontario. Eggshells from Quebec and Ontario were 3.2 and 9.0% thinner, respectively, than pre-1947 values. The levels of contaminants found in this study were low compared to those known in other colonially nesting waterbirds. The biological effects of contaminants on Black Terns have not been studied in detail and the species' sensitivity should be evaluated on a biochemical level.
10.2307/1521262|Among the seven species of resident and migratory storks of Bangladesh, two resident species have been extripated, the status of three storks are uncertain, and the remaining two species are fast disappearing owing to loss of habitat and hunting. In addition the avifauna includes another 14 species of colonial waterbirds in 15,000 square kilometers of wetlands. Increased fishing, conversion of wetlands into arable lands, removal of village groves and hunting have reduced the populations of these waterbirds. Conservation measures are needed to save the stroks and other waterbirds.
10.2307/1521039|For the decade 1972-1981, as compared to the period 1964-1968, the nesting abundance of Great Blue Herons in upstate New York has probably increased. There is no strong statistical evidence for differential concentrations of heronries throughout the state. Colony habitat has changed little since the mid-1960's. There is a strong nesting association with upland deciduous habitat in southern New York. Heronries are more often found in wetland or aquatic habitats in the northern part of the state. Reforestation of abandoned agricultural land may be providing increased amounts of nesting habitat, adequately buffered from human activity. Wood-cutting for fuel and acidic precipitation may impose future limits on population growth and productivity.
10.2307/1521019|Population size is a crucial aspect of the biology of any species and a key to developing appropriate conservation strategies. Population trend analysis requires use of historical information, the quality of which varies widely according to its source, methods of collection, purpose of collection, political climate prevailing at the time, and the literary nature of the report. The extensive documentation of Everglades "wading bird populations" exemplifies the perpetuation of illusion and interpretation inherent in such historic information. Records of millions of nesting wading birds in southern Florida, often cited in the popular, scientific, and resources management literatures, have no credible origin. Such reports of large numbers refer primarily to White Ibis, whose historical populations can be estimated at about 100,000 birds. The documentable historic population of Wood Storks was no more than 20,000 birds (Kushlan and Frohring 1986). Historically high counts for commonly listed herons are 9,200 Great Egrets, 10,300 Snowy Egrets, and 9,800 Tricolor Herons (Kushlan and White 1977). Past information on any colonial waterbird population must be used and evaluated with extreme caution, and only after interpreting data on a species by species basis.
10.2307/1521950|The Albanian coastal region is among the least known areas in the entire Mediterranean basin. The network of protected sites includes national parks and hunting reserves. Nature conservation legislation is currently being revised. The eight largest coastal wetlands were evaluated during November 1992 and May 1993. Pelecaniform and Ciconiiform populations were intensively surveyed. Observations were compared with historical data.
10.2307/1521589|In gulls, egg size and clutch asymmetry have been suggested to be suitable variables for assessing individual quality. Skuas, like several other seabirds, generally display within-clutch asymmetry (the second egg in the clutch is, on average, smaller than the first egg). We found no relationship between clutch volume in 2-egg clutches and laying date, hatching success or fledging production of pairs of Great Skuas (Catharacta skua) breeding in Shetland. There was a high repeatability (0.72, P < 0.0001) in the volume of clutches laid by the same pairs in consecutive years. The influence of adult age on egg size was weak and variable. Unlike clutch volume, clutch asymmetry was not repeatable and showed no relationship with adult age. Furthermore, clutch asymmetry did not correlate with any other breeding parameter. We conclude that, in Great Skuas, clutch characteristics are not suitable indicators of individual quality or environmental conditions over the range prevailing during this study. The results are discussed in comparison with the conclusions from studies with gulls, and it is argued that more research is needed to clarify the factors that are responsible for the existence of within-clutch asymmetry in seabirds.
10.2307/1521343|We recorded Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) incursions at eight Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) colonies in the Pacific Northwest in 1988. The incursion rate was one per 10.3 hours of observation. Herons showed three acoustic responses to eagle intrusions: sudden silence, roaring, and no change. Two incursions resulted in predation of heron chicks. We suspect that eagle predation is more frequent than what we observed and could adversely affect heron productivity at some colonies.
10.2307/1521176| Eggs of Gray Gulls (Larus modestus) which nests in the Atacama Desert of northern Chile, exhibit lower water vapor conductance (G-H20) than predicted by general equations for birds. Their G-H20 (3.70 mg day<sup>-1</sup> torr<sup>-1</sup>) is 33 percent of that predicted by a model for seagulls. Compared to eggs of the desert-nesting Heermann's gull (L. heermanni), Gray Gull eggs lose water one-third as fast. Low G-H20 is a unique adaptation to nesting in the interior of the Atacama Desert, 35-100 km from water. As a consequence of the adaptation of reduced functional pore area of the shell, which is implied by low G-H20, Gray Gulls have a protracted incubation period compared to semiprecocial species with similar sized eggs. /// Los huevos de garuma Larus modestus, que nidifica en el desierto de Atacama, muestran una conductancia de vapor (G-H20) mas baja que la obtenida mediante ecuaciones generales para aves. El valor de G-H20 de los huevos (3.70 mg day<sup>-1</sup> torr<sup>-1</sup>) es 33% de aquel obtenido del modelo para gaviotas. Comparados con los huevos de Heermann's gull L. heermanni, que tambin nidifica en ambientes desrticos, los huevos de garuma pierden agua a un tercio de su tasa. La baja conductancia, es una singular adaptacin para la nidificacin en el desierto de Atacama, a 35-100 km del agua. Como una consecuencia de la adaptacion del area funcional de poros, manifestada por la baja conductancia, las garumas tienen un perido de incubacion mas largo, comparado con especies semiprecociales y con huevos de tamao similar. 
10.2307/1521436|Chick mass and growth during a six-day period were investigated among California Gulls (Larus californicus) in 1979 and 1980. In broods of two, levels of hatching asynchrony between siblings ranging from 0 - 4 days were observed. Hatching asynchrony resulted in initial mass differences between siblings that persisted and accelerated with time. Fledging success was unrelated to hatching asynchrony but was related to large offspring mass and increased with parental age. Parental age was unrelated to hatching asynchrony but heavily influenced the brood's gain in mass. Six days after the second egg hatched, chick mass was highest at those levels of hatching asynchrony where mean age of parent was highest. Mass differences between siblings at day six were related to fledging success only to the extent that rapid growth among siblings of older parents usually resulted in large differences in mass. Implications of results to investigations of Lack's brood reduction hypothesis are discussed.
10.2307/1521356|At a subtropical colony of the Bridled Tern, on Penguin Island in southwestern Australia, breeding was seasonal with some slight variation in arrival times and laying period. On Penguin Island, up to 70 percent of Bridled Terns retained nest sites from year to year. Site change was often associated with mate change or disappearance. Only one-third of known pairs retained their partners over successive seasons. One pair bond persisted for at least three years. Known-age terns recaptured within their natal colony area were mostly birds in their third year but first- and second-year birds were also caught. Bridled Terns were confirmed as breeding in their fourth year. One- two- and three-year-old terns tended to be present in the colony late in the breeding season and were rarely retrapped until after the main laying peak. Compared with Sooty Terns, young Bridled Terns were more rapidly assimilated into the colony and started breeding earlier in life. This may be attributable to species-specific differences in marine feeding ecology and/or to differences in adaptation to colonial nesting. The relatively rapid recruitment of Bridled Terns on Penguin Island may also be a response to local demographic factors.
10.2307/1521375|Predation in a Massachusetts Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) colony was studied from 1982 to 1984 to identify and quantify its effects on tern reproduction. Prey eaten by Short-eared Owls (Asio flammeus) was determined. The owls caused direct and indirect mortality to terns. Owl foraging activity caused terns to desert their nests during evening twilight and return the following morning. Night desertion exposed tern eggs and nestlings to weather and predators. In 5-6 study plots, 42.0% (N = 290) and 49.7% (N = 280) of the eggs laid (N = 1,254) in 1983 and 1984 seasons, respectively, did not hatch. Nest desertion prolonged incubation periods by six to seven days. Terns accounted for 80.2% (N = 89) of 111 birds killed by the owls. Nestling mortality was exceptionally high, with perhaps only 13 terns fledged of 684 eggs hatched during the two seasons. Techniques for identifying owl predation are described. Management actions directed against the owls are questioned, given this species' state and regional population status. Standard protocols must be designed to accurately determine and identify predation and predators in colonial waterbird colonies.
10.2307/1521368| We report the first observations of North American Roseate Terns (Sterna dougalli) associating with an active breeding colony of Caribbean Roseate Terns in southwestern Puerto Rico. Although band recoveries suggest that the wintering ranges of the two populations may overlap, our sightings indicate that this association may extend into the breeding season as well. /// Comunicamos la primera observacin de palometas (Sterna dougallii) de la poblacin norteamericana asociadas a una colonia activa de palometas en el Caribe anidando en el suroeste de Puerto Rico. Aunque los datos de recuperacin de palometas anilladas sugiere que ambas poblaciones podran sobrelaparse en las reas de invernacin, nuestras observaciones indican que esta asociacin podra tambin extenderse hasta la poca de reproduccin. 
10.2307/1521918| Fish-carrying Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica) have often been reported arriving at the colony in flocks. We studied the Atlantic Puffin on Skvoy in the Faroe Islands to analyze the manner of arrival at the colony. During 20 dawn-to-dusk watches regularly spread over the chick-rearing period in 1993, the arrival of fish-carrying birds was timed to the nearest second. Within 14 periods that met analysis-criteria, time intervals between successive arrivals were analyzed in order to determine whether arrivals at the colony were non-random. In 71% of all periods. puffin arrived clumped, with more puffins than expected arriving within intervals of less than or equal to five sec of each other. The overall average of birds arriving in groups was 35%, ranging from 15 to 52% in the individual periods. Ninety-six percent of the groups consisted of two or three birds, the remaining 4% were of four-five birds. These clumped arrivals might be the result of a strategy to reduce kleptoparasitism by Parasitic Jaegers (Stercorarius parasiticus) and predation by Great Skuas (Catharacta skua). 
10.2307/1521953|Given the importance of the Portuguese heronries within the Mediterranean region, it is essential to study their ecology and limiting factors in order to define a global conservation strategy. Data on size and species composition was gathered from 26 Portuguese heronries during spring 1993. The results were compared with data on type and availability of feeding habitats within a 5-km radius of the colony center (17 colonies). The number of Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) nests depends on the area of dry pasture and crops within 5-km, while the number of Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) depends on the presence of freshwater and saltwater habitats. Compared with other areas in the Mediterranean, Portuguese heronries are dominated mainly by Cattle Egrets, possibly related to a comparative lack of freshwater feeding habitats and abundance of dry pasture and crops.
10.2307/1521275| Barau's Petrel, the last discovered and one of the least-known species of petrels in the world, has been studied on Runion Island between October 1987 and January 1989. In order to estimate population numbers and to study colony attendance patterns, 1200 counts were made over 65 days during the study period, from the coast and at the colonies. We suggest that 3000 pairs are breeding on Runion and we propose some values for the length of various components of breeding behavior. We also found for the first time two colonies, situated at the summit of the island. We describe the behavior and calls of Barau's Petrel, which provide new insight on the phylogenetic relationship between Barau's Petrel and other gadfly petrels. 
10.2307/1521511|I recorded heavy predation by American Crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) and Common Raven (C. corax) on Herring Gull (Larus argentatus) and Ring-billed Gull (L. delawarensis) eggs at four colonies on Lake Huron in 1990. Gulls experienced total reproductive failure, associated with large numbers of eggs taken by corvids. Average breeding success was significantly higher at colonies on non-wooded than on wooded islands, possibly related to reduced cover for corvid predators. It was not possible to attribute these failures solely to corvid predation since factors such as the presence of a Red Fox (Vulpes vulpes), and food stresses for gulls could not be ruled out.
10.2307/1521552| In 1991, inventories were conducted at 55 heron and egret breeding colony sites in the San Francisco Bay area; 44 of these were monitored with multiple visits. Eight colony sites were visited 10 or more times during the season. The breeding colonies included 45 Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias), 17 Great Egret (Casmerodius albus), seven Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), and 11 Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) colonies. Isolated islands in central San Francisco Bay provided regionally important nesting habitat for Snowy Egrets and Black-crowned Night-Herons. We found no relationship between the extent of tidal marsh habitat within major subregions of the Bay and the distributions of nesting ardeids. However, a high concentration of nesting Great Egrets in Suisun Bay coincided with the most biologically productive waters in the San Francisco Bay estuary. Great Blue Heron colonies were well dispersed throughout the area, especially along the outer Pacific Coast and in the Russian River/Laguna de Santa Rosa drainage. Overall prefledging (4-7 weeks old) brood size among successful Great Blue Heron nests was 1.93  0.61 (SD) young per nest, with no difference between "interior" colonies that were  10 km from saltwater or brackish feeding areas and colonies closer to the coast. 
10.2307/1521086| One egg was removed from five Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) nests at each of eight colonies in central and northern Florida in 1982. DDE and mercury were present in all eggs with concentrations ranging up to 9.4 and 0.73 ppm wet weight, respectively. PCBs were detected in 25 eggs (63%) with a high value of 3.5 ppm. Other organochlorine compounds occurred in less than 30% of the eggs. Contaminant concentrations were remarkably similar among colonies. Overall, DDE and PCB concentrations were significantly less (P  0.05) in Wood Stork eggs collected in Florida in 1982 vs. those collected in 1973. DDE was negatively correlated with eggshell thickness (r = -0.48 P  0.01). Eggshell thickness was greater in 1982 than it was during the period 1967-73 (P  0.09) but was still 4.3% less than in eggs collected before 1947 (P  0.05). Eggs from nests with less than 100% hatching success were linked with higher DDE concentrations (2.92 ppm vs 1.01; P = 0.09), but contaminants showed no significant link to fledging success. Although it is possible that a few individuals may have been affected by DDE, we found no evidence that organochlorine pesticides, PCBs, or mercury were significantly depressing Wood Stork populations. 
10.2307/1521730| Kittlitz's Murrelet (Brachyramphus brevirostris) is a rare seabird found mostly in coastal waters of Alaska. Little is known about its distribution and abundance. We conducted population surveys for seabirds in three areas within its range: lower Cook Inlet, Prince William Sound, and southeastern Alaska. In summer, Kittlitz's Murrelets were distributed near tidewater glaciers or recently deglaciated regions of Prince William Sound and southeastern Alaska. In Prince William Sound they also occurred in low densities away from glaciers. Kittlitz's Murrelets were found in low densities throughout lower Cook Inlet, where there are no tidewater glaciers. We observed Kittlitz's Murrelets in low densities in Prince William Sound in winter, but not in eastern lower Cook Inlet. We estimated abundances 95% confidence intervals as: 3,3531,718 in lower Cook Inlet during summer; 3,3684,073 in Prince William Sound during summer; and 5,4087,039 in southeastern Alaska during summer. The combined estimate for the three areas during summer was 12,1308,312. In winter we estimated 410744 Kittlitz's Murrelets were in Prince William Sound. We compare distribution and abundance with historical observations of Kittlitz's Murrelets. 
10.2307/1521140|Behavior, habitat use, and prey were compared for Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula), Tricolored Herons (E. tricolor), and Little Blue Herons (E. caerulea) in a marine habitat to assess resource partitioning. All three species tended to use behaviors in different frequencies. Little Blue Herons used only Walking Slowly, Snowy Egrets used Walking Slowly and Foot Stirring most often, and Tricolored Herons used Walking Slowly and Disturb-and-Chase most often. Partitioning occurred through differences in prey type and prey size. Tricolored Herons and Little Blue Herons tended to eat different prey types as measured by frequency of prey captured and percent of diet by weight. Snowy Egrets and Tricolored Herons ate different prey types when prey as a percent of diet were compared. Snowy Egrets and Little Blue Herons broadly overlapped in prey type but ate fish of different sizes.
10.2307/1521734|We assessed the relative importance of the "nutritional hypothesis" and the "copulation enhancement hypothesis" as explanations for the function of courtship feeding in Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla). The nutritional hypothesis received the most support from our data. In the two weeks prior to egg laying, female kittiwakes at Cape St. Mary's, Newfoundland received approximately 40 food boluses from their mates. As many of these boluses were whole fish, this represents a substantial amount of food. Surprisingly, there were no significant positive correlations between feeding rate and any general measures of breeding success. There may have been sufficient food in 1990 for even inexperienced birds to reproduce successfully, as breeding success was very high that year. The phenology of courtship feeding provided further evidence for the nutritional hypothesis. Courtship feeding rate increased steadily during the period of yolk formation (day -12 to day of egg laying) and reached a peak at day -2, shortly before albumen synthesis, the time of maximum protein demand. Less evidence was found to support the copulation enhancement hypothesis. Although courtship feeding was not essential for successful copulation (60% occurred without prior feeding), if feeding did occur, subsequent copulations were more likely to be successful (end in cloacal contact). However, prior courtship feeding did not result in greater numbers of cloacal contacts per mount and feed size (boluses per feed) had no significant effect on the success of subsequent copulations.
10.2307/1521561| A widespread feeding association between Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus) and Right Whales (Eubalaena glacialis) was observed in shallow waters of the Valds Peninsula, Argentina in winter. Observations made from a yacht and underwater in August 1991 showed that gulls foraging on the shore were selectively attracted to active whales, particularly when whales were numerous and in shallow waters. Tumultuous movements by whales induced an upwelling of mixed sediment, benthic invertebrates and pieces of dead skin. The high frequency of interactions (3/h) and proportion of birds involved (60-70%) suggest that this food supply is important for gulls when alternative resources are lacking. Their rapid arrival (<2 min) on active whales compared to their delayed reaction (>9 min) to extra food deposited near quiet animals indicates that gulls have learned to rely on whale behavior to locate this food. As with gulls in general, such local and seasonal feeding behavior supplements numerous other techniques used by this widespread and opportunistic species. 
10.2307/1521500|Relationships among average fledgling production, colony size, and surrounding land cover were explored for 11 Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) colonies in north and central Florida. A land-cover map developed from Landsat Thematic Mapper data was used to quantify the area covered by 22 land-cover types within 25 and 50 km of colonies. Three land-cover types correlated strongly with average fledgling production: pine forest (positively), freshwater marsh (negatively), and barren land (negatively). Colony size was positively correlated with the area of cypress swamp surrounding colonies. Factor analysis was used to explore more complex relationships between land-cover types and average fledgling production. The first factor axis calculated for the area of seven wetland-cover types within 50-km of colonies accounted for the greatest amount of variation in average fledgling production among colonies, but the variation explained by this axis was small (21.5%). Colonies surrounded by larger areas of cypress and hardwood swamp tended to average slightly more fledglings than colonies surrounded by larger areas of freshwater marsh, salt marsh, and shrub swamp.
10.2307/1521166|We studied feeding-site characteristics of agricultural fields selected by White-faced Ibises (Plegadis chihi) at Lahontan Valley, Nevada, USA. Feeding-site characteristics considered were field types, field size, soil types, vegetation height, irrigation, water depth, and proximity to the nesting colony. Ibises had a greater preference for alfalfa fields and less preference for corn, wheat-barley, pastures, and oat fields. Greater preferences were also found for fields that were closer to the colony, larger in size, having clay and clay-loam soils, and irrigated. We found no clear preference for vegetation height or water depth. Irrigation water was present at virtually all (99.9%) feeding-sites. Earthworms, the principal prey item found in 16 White-faced Ibis esophagi, were made available to ibises because of irrigation. We show that irrigated fields are valuable feeding habitat for White-faced Ibises.
10.2307/1521612|Data from the North American Breeding Bird Survey indicate a survey-wide decline in Black Terns (Chlidonias niger) at an average rate of 3.1% annually during 1966-1996. Black Terns in Canada decreased at an average annual rate of 3.5% during this interval, while the United States population showed no significant trends. These long-term declines largely reflect trends prior to 1980, when the continental, Canadian, and United States populations decreased at average annual rates of 7.5%, 5.6%, and 11.9%, respectively. Most population trends were reversed during the 1990s, causing trend estimates over the 1980-1996 interval to become more positive. Associations between patterns of change in Black Terns, Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), and numbers of ponds in the northern Great Plains suggest some relationships exist between habitat availability and the population trajectories.
10.2307/1521695|During a 12 year study of European Shags (Phalacrocorax aristotelis), we recorded 22 cases where pairs laid a second clutch after successfully fledging their first brood. Pairs that were double-brooded invariably bred early in the season and the 2 years in which double-brooding was recorded were the 2 earliest breeding seasons. Only 5 second clutches resulted in fledged chicks. The mean number of chicks produced in these cases was 4.2 young/pair, markedly higher than pairs that reared only a single brood (1.96 young/pair). However, in population terms, the contribution of second broods to annual production was negligible (<2%). We speculate that double-brooding may also occur in other cormorant species and members of the sub-order Pelecani.
10.2307/1521903|The building of dams and subsequent diversion of water from the Macquarie River have had a significant impact on the breeding of colonial waterbirds in the Macquarie Marshes, New South Wales, southeastern Australia. Annual flows (1978, 1986-1996), measured at Oxley where the Marshes begin, were significantly related to total colony size (number of nests) and sizes of six nesting Ciconiidae (Intermediate Egret Ardea intermedia, Rufous Night Heron Nycticorax caledonicus, Glossy Ibis Plegadis falcinellus, Straw-necked Ibis Threskiornis spinicollis, Australian White Ibis Threskiornis mollucca and Royal Spoonbill Platalea regia) colonies. We used these results and available historical flow data extending back to 1944 to demonstrate the probable impact of water diversions on breeding in these colonial nesting species. The impact of Burrendong Dam, opened in 1967, and Windamere Dam, opened in 1984, on the numbers of nests would have been significant. Instead of a colony of more than 100,000 nests in 1969, a colony of less than 10,000 probably established. Similarly, in 1984, a colony of more than 100,000 could have been established with no water diversions, but in all likelihood the colony was less than 5,000. Generally colony sizes were significantly less (100,000 over 11 years) than would be expected without diversions of water upstream. Colony sizes of more than 100,000 nests estimated during the floods of the 1950s are unlikely to occur again. Numbers of annual breeding events also declined with water diversions from ten to seven (1963-1973); eight to seven (1974-1984) and eight to five (1985-1995).
10.2307/1520978|In the eleven years since the last study (1970-71) of Culebra's seabirds several significant changes in population numbers, colony site locations, and breeding species have occured. The Sooty Tern (Sterna fuscata) population has declined 82%; the Royal Tern (S. maxima) and Sandwich Tern (S. sandvicensis) populations have shifted their major breeding colony and their populations have declined, and three additional species-Masked Booby (Sula dactylatra), Red-footed Booby (S. sula), and Audubon's Shearwater (Puffinus lherminieri)-have been found breeding in the Culebra Archipelago.
10.2307/1521009|The White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) population breeding in South Texas has remained relatively constant at 200-500 nests from 1907 until the present. In some years up to 2500 nests may have existed and in other years White pelicans apparently did not nest at all. Occasionally, pelicans established a colony then abandoned nests, eggs and young. Although ectoparasities and storms have been implicated as causes of such abandonments, predator disturbance and brood reduction are likely the major factors. The historical record of the colony in the Laguna Madre de Tamaulipas is also examined.
10.2307/1521181|In the winters of 1983-1984 and 1984-1985, oil wells were drilled adjacent to a waterbird colony on Pelican Island in Galveston Bay, Texas, USA. Drilling was finished on February 29, 1984, but technical problems prevented cessation in 1985 until June 7, well into the nesting season. The number of breeding wading birds, Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla), and Forster's Terns (Sterna forsteri) decreased in both 1984 and 1985 following the drilling activity. In 1986, after drilling activities had been terminated, most nesting waterbirds increased on Pelican Island. Wading birds were more severely affected by the disturbance than were gulls and terns. Although Laughing Gull numbers decreased, the contribution of the drilling disturbance to this decrease is unknown. Forester's Terns relocated their nest sites within the colony site in response to oil well construction. It is likely that disturbance during the early spring, when birds were selecting nest sites and establishing territories, was responsible for the observed changes in breeding bird use.
10.2307/1521536|The diet of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) wintering in the Delta region of Mississippi was studied from collections of 202 birds taken at catfish farms during the winters of 1987-88 through 1989-90, and from collections of 461 birds at night roost sites during the winters of 1989-90 and 1990-91. Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) and Gizzard Shad (Dorosoma cepedianum) were the only two important prey species, comprising >90% of the diet from all samples. However, the proportion of these two prey species in the diet varied dramatically (P<0.05) among months and geographic locations of collections, as well as between sexes of birds collected. Overall, the diet was approximately equal between catfish and shad, but catfish was most often consumed by males during the spring months in the areas of highest catfish concentration. The size range of catfish preyed upon appeared to parallel the size class of fish used for stocking commercial ponds in the spring. Based on these analyses, we recommend strategies for reducing cormorant predation on commercial catfish.
10.2307/1521913|Guillemots (Cepphus spp.) feed their chicks a diet that is almost exclusively fish. We observed Pigeon Guillemots (C. columba) at two colonies in Alaska where hermit crabs (Crustacea: Anomura) were a major part of the diet for some nestlings. Hermit crabs were delivered to three of five observed nests at one colony, comprised between 2% and 22% of the items delivered at those nests, and were the second most common food type at one nest. Hermit crabs may be an attractive prey item when lipid-rich forage fish are scarce, and crabs living in gastropod shells that have been softened by encrustations of Suberites sponges may be vulnerable to guillemot predation.
10.2307/1520989|I examined physical characteristics of sites occupied by Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) colonies on Long Island, New York, in comparison to sites without colonies. Contrary to historical records most Least Terns were found on broad sand flats or small rounded areas (knobs) adjacent to inlets, rather than close to the high-tide line on long stretches of beach. This habitat shift is related to overall changes in habitat availability. Humans have usurped most beaches with extensive recreational use, off-road vehicle traffic, and construction. Conversely, man -modified sites suitable for nesting have been created by deposition of dredged soil. In 1976, 98% of Least Tern colonies were on sites that had been graded excellent or good quality in 1975. Although only 48% were on sites more or less free from human disturbance, there was nonetheless a statistically significant preference for sites either remote from human use areas or with little evidence of off-road vehicular traffic. Although social factors and previous experience are of importance in influencing where a Least Tern will nest in a given year, it is possible to predict the Suitability of sites for Least Terns based on estimates of physical Quality (e.g., size, shape, slope, substrate, vegetation), and Availability (freedom from human disturbance). Semiquantitative estimates of Quality and Availability were used to produce a composite Suitability score. Least Terns nested on 67% of the highly suitable, but only 17% of the poorly suited sites. Because of the shortage of suitable undisturbed nesting sites, Least Terns now occupy sites that are suitable in every respect except for a high prevalence of off-road vehicle tracks or other disturbance.
10.2307/1521323|On 28-29 May 1988 two Black Noddies (Anous minutus) were observed during the nesting period of a congener, Brown Noddy (A. stolidus) and nesting Masked Boobies (Sula dactylatra) were found for the first time among Brown Boobies (S. leucogaster) at Sombrero Island, Lesser Antilles. Isolated Brown Noddy colonies should be scrutinized for possible scattered pairs of Black Noddies nesting among congeners. Seabird nesting associations are dynamic in the northeastern Caribbean and may provide examples of group adherence or contagious breeding where optimal nesting habitat is limited.
10.2307/1521775|The conservation and management of wading birds, particularly colonial wading birds, has received considerable attention in the past 20 years. Critical issues over this period were status and trends (including endangered species), wetlands, nesting sites, aquaculture, critical habitats and international cooperation. There has been a considerable advance in basic knowledge and in the application of this knowledge to conservation issues. World wide action plans and flyway plans are in development. Issues for the next century include population based conservation, habitat conservation at both the local and landscape scales, wading birds as potential bioindicators of environmental stress, and activation of the strategic plans.
10.2307/1521822|The occurrence of a congenital malformation in the Pygmy Cormorant (Phalacrocorax pygmeus) is reported. In 1995, a cross-billed chick was observed in the natural reserve of Punte Alberete (southern Po Delta, northern Italy) where a small colony of Pygmy Cormorant became established in 1994.
10.2307/1521690|Lake Kerkini, a Ramsar site in Macedonia, Greece, is an irrigation reservoir with water level fluctuations exceeding 5 m annually. We determined the effect of water level fluctuations on the area of available Ciconiiformes' foraging habitat at low, intermediate and high lake stages. Log-linear analysis assessed the changes in the patterns of foraging habitat use by Great Egrets, Little Egrets and Grey Herons in response to the interactions of foraging habitat type and lake stage. At low lake stage Ciconiiformes mainly foraged in non-vegetated habitats or in lacustrine and palustrine habitats with submerged vegetation, while at intermediate lake stages they used palustrine habitats with emergent or submerged vegetation. At high lake stage birds shifted to riverine habitats that constituted the main available foraging grounds. The coexistence of three wetland systems enhances habitat heterogeneity at Lake Kerkini and enables large hereon populations to thrive, despite the relatively small foraging area compared to other Mediterranean wetlands. Only Great Egrets seem to face constraints related to the limited availability of marshes-habitats linked to the species feeding and nesting requirements-during the breeding period.
10.2307/1521807| We undertook four aerial surveys of the Saudi Arabian Red Sea coast in January and February 1992 to 1995. In 1992 and 1993, surveys extended from the mouth of the Gulf of Aqaba in the north to Jizan in the south, and in 1994 and 1995, from south of Jeddah to the Yemen border. We recorded no Pink-backed Pelicans (Pelecanus rufescens) north of Jeddah, but 350-600 non-breeding birds were present to the south. Numbers were greatest south of 1830N. We located four major nesting colonies in this southern section on better-vegetated offshore islands, with 310 active nests recorded in 1995. The breeding season appears to span October - February. We estimate the Saudi Arabian population at 1,200-1,500 birds and a further 300-500 probably occur along the Yemen Red Sea coast. Given the paucity of information available for continental African range states, the Arabian Red Sea, with up to 2,000 birds, is undoubtedly of international importance for this species. In contrast to previous statements and speculations in the literature, we found the Great White Pelican (P. onocrotalus) to be only a very scarce and erratic winter visitor, mainly to the southern Red Sea coast and adjacent freshwater habitats. Total numbers recorded during this survey ranged between 14 in 1992 and one in 1994 and 1995. 
10.2307/1521810| This paper describes the structure and ecology of the Azores seabird assemblage. Recent observations on movements, morphology, breeding, molt, diet and feeding are combined with a literature review to provide a comprehensive framework for future research. The local populations of small Procellariiformes show a slight tendency to be larger body-sized, compared to southern Macaronesian allopatric populations, but this is not true for the large Cory's Shearwater. Among the Laridae, the Common Tern is slightly but consistently larger than among other eastern and western North Atlantic populations. The Azores seabirds exhibit fixed predictable annual breeding cycles and the phenology of Procellariiformes shows an overall similarity with those at Madeira, Salvages and Canary Is. The chick rearing periods of Procellariiformes with similar ecological niches do not overlap, suggesting partitioning of breeding habitat and food resources. The most important colonies are multispecific. Inter-specific competition for nest sites is high among Procellariiformes and this presumably reflects negatively on their breeding success. Intra-specific competition for nest sites is important among Cory's Shearwater and it is the possible reason for the evolution of temporally segregated populations of Band-rumped Storm-Petrel. Adults of species with high nest-site tenacity show poor body condition in the pre-laying period, which reflects the high cost of nest site maintenance and defense. Most species feed opportunistically on a wide variety of shoaling fish and squid. They produce their young in late spring and summer which apparently coincides with the period of maximum food availability. The petrels exploit vertically migrating mesopelagic fish and Cory's Shearwater feeds often in association with marine predators such as dolphins and tuna. Seamounts with associated upwellings are important foraging areas for seabirds. /// Este trabalho descreve a estrutura e ecologia da comunidade de aves marinhas dos Aores. Observaes recentes sobre movimentos, morfologia, reproduo, muda e ecologia alimentar foram combinadas com uma reviso da literatura, proporcionando um referencial para futuros estudos. O tamanho corporal das populaes locais de pequenos Procellariiformes  geralmente maior que nas populaes aloptricas de outros arquiplagos Macaronsicos a sul, mas tal no se aplica ao Cagarro. Entre os Laridae, o Garajau-comum  ligeiramente maior que em outras populaes do Atlntico nordeste e noroeste. As aves marinhas dos Aores tm ciclos reprodutores anuais e a fenologia dos Procellariiformes  idntica  observada na Madeira, Selvagens e Canrias. Os perodos de dependncia das crias de Procellariiformes com nicho ecolgico semelhante esto desfasados, sugerindo partio do habitat de nidificao e de recursos alimentares. As colnias mais importantes so multi-especficas. A competio inter-especfica por ninhos  elevada entre os Procellariiformes e possivelmente reflecte-se negativamente no successo reprodutor. A competio intra-especfica por ninhos  importante entre Cagarros e  a explicao mais plausvel para a evoluo de populaes temporalmente segregadas de Angelito. Os adultos de espcies com elevada fidelidade ao ninho apresentam uma condio corporal inferior no perodo pr-postura, indicadora de um custo elevado da defesa e manuteno do ninho. A maioria das espcies alimenta-se de forma oportunista numa relativa variedade de peixes em cardume e lulas. Produzem as respectivas crias no fim da primavera e vero, coincidindo com o perodo de mxima disponibilidade de alimento. A Alma-negra e o Angelito exploram peixes mesopelgicos que migram verticalmente e o Cagarro alimenta-se com frequncia em associao com predadores como golfinhos e atuns. Os bancos submarinos e upwellings associados so reas de alimentao importantes para as aves marinhas. 
10.2307/1521422|We examined prey delivered to broods by individual Gull-billed terns at five nests in the same colony during a 10-day period. Significant differences in prey type frequencies were noted among the ten foragers observed. While some individuals appeared to specialize on one main prey type during the observations, others delivered a number of prey with similar frequency. Prey are carried exposed in the bill and potentially provide useful information on prey availability and foraging habitat to neighbors.
10.2307/1521180|I describe an incident at Puerto Lobos, Sonora, Mexico, in which a Yellow-footed Gull (Larus livens) killed an adult, breeding-plumage Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis). Because large gulls regularly attempt to kleptoparasitize smaller birds such as grebes, acts of predation such as this one are important confirmation that gulls can be threats not only to their victims' food, but also to the victim itself.
10.2307/1521060| We collected eggs in nests, hatchlings and eggs with advanced embryos on the ground, and prefledgling young of Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) at three nesting colonies in Washington and Idaho. Intact fish were also collected on the ground at the Idaho colony. The Ft. Lewis colony near Puget Sound in Washington and the Lake Chatcolet colony in northern Idaho were located near areas extensively polluted with heavy metals from mining or smelting activities. The Hanford Reservation colony near Richland, Washington was located some distance from point sources of heavy metal pollution. Heavy metals in heron samples were generally low and were all below concentrations known to induce mortality or adversely affect reproductive success. The elevated copper in one of three prefledglings from Ft. Lewis paralleled that found in an occasional nestling of several species of birds in other studies; the significance of this relationship is unclear. Breeding herons apparently fed near their colonies in areas removed from the sites of heaviest contamination, but birds in the Lake Chatcolet colony were preying on fish containing as much as 6 g/g lead. 
10.2307/1521599|We examined brood reduction in Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) nesting in Manitoba, Canada. Brood reduction at 4-egg nests was essentially obligate, with the last-hatched (D) chick never surviving through 12 days at nests where all 3 elder siblings were still alive. Nevertheless, 4-egg nests had significantly greater chick survival than those with 3 eggs, as predicted by the insurance egg hypothesis. At nests where all chicks hatched, 4-egg nests also had a higher proportion of nests with 3 surviving chicks, raising the possibility that the presence of a fourth chick could have aided survival of the rest of the brood (sibling facilitation hypothesis). Brood reduction was facultative rather than obligate at natural 3-egg nests, where all 3 chicks survived to at least 12 days at 16.7% of nests. The main brood reduction mechanism was by non-aggressive competition among siblings for food, with older and larger siblings obtaining best access by reaching higher and closer to the parent. At the population level, Double-crested Cormorants appear to exhibit brood-size dependent brood reduction, with facultative reduction in smaller clutches commonly grading to obligate reduction in combination with potential insurance benefits in larger clutches.
10.2307/1521562| We describe a Craveri's Murrelet (Synthliboramphus craveri) nest from San Pedro Mrtir Island (Gulf of California, Mxico) and present the first documented fledging time as <31-38 hours after hatching. 
10.2307/1521761|We censused Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) on 8 reservoirs in north-central and northeastern Oklahoma from October 1992 through April 1994, excluding the months when the species was absent from the area (generally May-August). We used simple and multiple regression to identify physical and biological factors associated with seasonal densities of Double-crested Cormorants on reservoirs. Densities of Double-crested Cormorants varied between years and among reservoirs; they were absent during at least 1 census period, typically winter, on 5 of the 8 reservoirs. Densities of Double-crested cormorants were higher in 1992-93 than in 1993-94, which appeared to be related to low temperatures in 1993-94 that froze some study reservoirs and limited feeding opportunities. Size of a reservoir, the area of its drainage basin, and availability of forage fish were associated positively in simple regression models (adjusted r<sup>2</sup>=0.215-0.471) with densities of Double-crested Cormorants in autumn 1992 and winter 1993. The density of boat ramps, an index of human disturbance, was correlated negatively in simple regression models with density of Double-crested Cormorants in autumns 1992 and 1993 and spring 1993, but only 4.4-13.5% of the variability in cormorant density was accounted for by density of boat ramps. Multiple regression models in autumn 1992 and winter 1993, both of which included size of the reservoir, accounted for 51.9% and 60.4% of the variability in densities of Double-crested Cormorants, respectively. Although we identified what appeared to be fundamental associations of physical and biological factors with densities of Double-crested Cormorants, they should be viewed as foundations for future hypotheses regarding habitat selection during migration and winter residency.
10.2307/1521554|Reproductive parameters of interior Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) were estimated during the 1986-1989 breeding seasons at Mississippi River colonies in Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky, and Tennessee. Population indices ranged from 275-499 breeding pairs during the 1986-1989 breeding seasons. Average clutch size among years ranged from 2.09 to 2.48 eggs. Nest success, the probability a nest will hatch at least one egg, averaged 65% during 1986-1988; nest success in 1989 (51%) was significantly lower than previous years because of a flood during the peak of nesting. Average chick production was 1.5 chicks hatched/pair during 1986-1988, but only 0.7 chicks hatched/pair in 1989. Average indices of fledging success were 0.86 fledglings/pair during 1986-1988 and 0.2 fledglings/pair in 1989. Untimely floods had the greatest impact upon Least Tern reproduction, but coyote (Canus latrans) predation on eggs and all-terrain vehicle disturbance of tern nests and young also hampered successful tern reproduction. If we assumed that production of 0.5-1.0 fledglings/pair was necessary to maintain tern populations, our estimates of production appeared to be adequate to maintain population stability.
10.2307/1521955|The natural wetlands of the Mediterranean have been reduced to 10-20% of their original area over the past few centuries. However, the rice fields that have supplanted them in some regions may be valuable habitats for waterbirds. We describe the use of rice fields by waders, gulls, terns, ducks and herons in Italy, Spain, France, Greece and Portugal where this cultivation is most prevalent in certain restricted areas. Rice field systems, including the irrigation canals, are used by a variety of waterbirds, primarily as feeding habitats, and to a lesser extent as breeding sites. The long duration of flooding allows waterbird use through winter in Spain and France; it is limited to spring in other regions. However, the heavy dependence of waterbirds on rice fields is hazardous, because rice cultivation is subject to suddenly changing agricultural practices. Threats include risk from pesticide contamination, changes in the management of rice cultures, the rapidly spreading practice of cultivating rice on dry fields, and from large-scale hydrological changes. We urge authorities to recognize the importance of rice fields for the conservation of Mediterranean waterbirds and propose that cultivation and bird conservation issues be addressed in a holistic fashion.
10.2307/1521813| We observed six species of raptors: Black-chested Buzzard-eagle (Geranoaetus melanoleucus), Cinereous Harrier (Circus cinereus), Red-backed Hawk (Buteo polyosoma), Chimango Caracara (Milvago chimango), Crested Caracara (Polyborus plancus), and Peregrine Falcon (Falco peregrinus), nesting at Buff-necked Ibis (Theristicus caudatus) colonies in northern Argentinean Patagonia. Four out of these six species preyed upon Buff-necked Ibis nestlings and eggs. Ibis breeding success was not different when raptor species were present or absent from colonies. The association between raptors and ibises could be a consequence of generally low availability of colony sites where raptors are absent. /// Se ha detectado la nidificacin de seis especies de aves de presa en colonias de Bandurria Comn (Theristicus caudatus) de la Patagonia argentina: Aguila mora (Geranoaetus melanoleucus), Gaviln Ceniciento (Circus cinereus), Aguilucho comn (Buteo polyosoma), Chimango (Milvago chimango), Carancho Comn (Polyborus plancus) y Halcn Peregrino (Falco peregrinus). Cuatro de ellas predan sobre huevos y/o pollos de bandurria. El xito reproductor de los ibis no es mayor cuando nidifican cerca de rapaces agresivas que podran proporcionarle proteccin frente a otros predadores por lo que pudiera ocurrir que la asociacin se viera favorecida por la baja disponibilidad de lugares de nidificacin libres de la presencia de aves de presa. 
10.2307/1521766|We analyzed 2 sets of data for Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) stomach contents (including esophageal contents) that were collected from April through June of 1986-1988 (N = 580) and 1992-1993 (N = 200) on the Penobscot River, Maine. Our objectives were to examine temporal and spatial variation in the spring diet and estimate the importance of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) smolts to the cormorant diet. We analyzed stomach contents relative to samples from 3 river sections: 5 mainstem dams collectively, above the head of tide, and free-flowing areas above and below the head of tide. Between years composition of taxa lists were compared (P = 0.05) relative to time and river section. We estimated taxon importance for data collected during 1992-1993 by ranking taxa according to 3 statistics: frequency of occurrence, mean percent volume, and numerical abundance. Data from 1986-88 were analyzed by frequency of occurrence only. Across the 3 river sections, the number of prey species recovered from cormorant stomachs increased from 15 in late April to at least 31 through May. Cormorants collected above the head of tide consumed 12 fish species (including freshwater, anadromous, and catadromous types), whereas birds collected below the head of tide consumed 28 freshwater and seasonally-available estuarine, marine benthic, and pelagic species. Salmon smolts were not recovered from stomachs collected in April, rare in stomach samples during the first week of June, and absent from the diet thereafter. In contrast, smolts were among the 5 most frequently occurring (1986-88) and highest ranking (1992-1993) prey taxa across the 3 river sections through May.
10.2307/1521340| Breeding population, diet, and reproductive success of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) on Lake Winnipegosis, Manitoba, were studied from 15 May to 6 September, 1987. We recorded 35,181 nests on 37 colonies, a dramatic increase over the 1979 estimate of 9053 nests on 17 colonies. Eleven colonies, located primarily at the north end of the lake, accounted for 70% of the total number of breeding pairs. Evidence of human disturbance was found at 15 colonies. These disturbed colonies showed a mean productivity of approximately 0.40.5 (SD; n=13 colonies) mobile chicks/nest compared with 1.80.9 (n=19 colonies) mobile chicks/nest at undisturbed colonies. Evidence of Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) predation of hatch-year birds was found at 4 colonies. We collected 6169 prey samples representing 16 fish and one crayfish species. Yellow Perch (Perca flavescens) were found most frequently but White Sucker (Catostomus commersoni) made up nearly half the prey biomass. Walleye (Stizostedion vitreum) and Sauger (S. canadense), accounted for only 0.1 and 0.2% of the prey biomass, respectively. We suggest that increases in populations of forage fish such as suckers, due primarily to overfishing of Walleye and pike, may have contributed to the cormorant population increase. 
10.2307/1521205|The loss of wetlands continues world-wide. The impact especially has been felt in coastal areas, but water management elsewhere has resulted in marked reductions of aquatic bird populations. Concern for wetland management led to the convocation of a symposium on waterbird and shorebird use of natural and man-modified wetlands in December 1985 at the first joint meeting of the Colonial Waterbird Group and the Pacific Seabird Group. Contributions discussed a wide cross-section of taxa, geographic area, wetland type, and level of approach. Coverage included North America, South America, and Europe.
10.2307/1521005|Important questions regarding the ecology of seabirds cannot be answered without understanding the dynamics of seabirds' prey. We developed a methodology for studying the interactions of fish and Common Terns using a paper-recording echo sounder. Though not without limitations, echosounders can be useful in quantifying relative abundance and density of prey fish and in obtaining data on fish behavior. We describe and evaluate our techniques and the efficacy of using sonar to study and interactions of seabirds and their prey.
10.2307/1521534| Monthly counts of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) were made at 18 night roosts in the Delta region of Mississippi from October through May during winters 1989-90 and 1990-91 as a basis for estimating wintering populations. Populations peaked at 24,660 birds in April 1990 and 26,893 in March 1991. Numbers of Double-crested Cormorants differed among counts (N=9, P=0.037) and roosts (N=13, P=0.016) in 1989-90, but only among roosts (N=17, P=0.0004) during 1990-91. There was no difference (0.1323>P>0.1223) between adjacent evening and morning counts (N=18) at the same roost. Numbers of Double-crested Cormorants counted entering and leaving roosts were highly correlated (=0.947, N=28, P <0.005) with cormorants counted in photographic slides taken after Double-crested Cormorants arrived in the evening and before they departed in the morning. However, direct counts made at the roosts and from slides were different (0.0002>P>0.0001). Roost descriptions are given and influences on population fluctuations are discussed. 
10.2307/1521376|Increased losses of eggs and chicks resulting from human intrusion (investigator or other) into seabird colonies have been well documented. From 1989 to 1991, we studied the effects of investigator disturbance on the breeding success of individual pairs of Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) nesting at two colonies near Port Colborne, Ontario, Canada. The insular colony was on an artificial breakwall, associated with the Welland Ship Canal, approximately 1 km off the north shore of Lake Erie. The mainland colony was adjacent to the Canal approximately 1 km east of the breakwall. Clutch size, hatching success/pair and fledging success/pair were measured for pairs nesting in study plots subjected to various levels of investigator disturbance. The disturbance level of each study plot varied with respect to visitation frequency and investigator activities performed on each visit. Chicks were considered fledged at 21 days old. Visits into the study areas before and during the egg-laying period had no significant effect on nesting density or clutch-size distribution. Similarly, visits during the incubation phase had no effect on the hatching success of study pairs. Finally, while we did not enter the study areas during the brooding period, we established that visits during hatching had no effect on the hatching or fledging success of study pairs. The abundance of available cover provided shelter in which mobile chicks crouched during disturbances (investigator or other).
10.2307/1521046|Observations in Latin America during the winter 1980-81 suggested that Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) were in poor condition and that they had difficulty in obtaining food. Their foraging behaviour was unusual in that they followed fishing boats waiting for small fish discarded by the fishermen. Two local techniques for trapping terns were observed: (1) birds were caught from the air by hand as they were feeding on small fishes that were used as bait, and (2) birds roosting at night were dazzled by a strong light and then trapped by throwing a shrimp-net over them. These findings are discussed and suggestions for further studies are presented.
10.2307/1521146|The average clutch size of Caspian Terns nesting in a colony in the Lower Laguna Madre near Laguna Vista, Texas, USA in 1984 was 1.9 eggs per nest. Using the Mayfield method for calculating success, one egg hatched in 84.1% of the nests, and 69.8% of the eggs laid hatched. These hatching estimates are as high or higher than estimates from colonies in other areas.
10.2307/1521902|Types of prey consumed by endangered Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) in coastal habitats have received little study. We documented prey items fed to stork nestlings in two coastal and two inland colonies in Georgia in 1995. Fish from brackish/saltwater habitats dominated the coastal regurgitation samples, making up 65-93% of individual prey items and 49-74% of prey biomass collected. Mummichogs (Fundulus heteroclitus) were the most common single prey item found in the coastal samples. Inter-colony differences in the remaining coastal prey species were presumably due to differences in foraging habitat type (freshwater vs. saltwater) and their proximity to each colony. Prey from saltwater habitats were significantly shorter and weighed less than prey from freshwater habitats. Freshwater prey items fed to nestlings in all four colonies were reasonably similar, containing varying percentages (frequency and biomass) of redfin pickerel (Esox americanus), bullhead (Ameiurus spp.), and sunfish (Centrarchidae).
10.2307/1521425|Eustrongylidosis is a debilitating disease caused by infection with the parasitic nematode Eustrongylides sp. I describe a palpation method that was accurate in 226 of 238 dead wading birds and that may be of value for the disgnosis of eustrongylidosis in live wading birds.
10.2307/1520988|In 1980, 178 Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) eggs were collected in nine colonies from Rhode Island to North Carolina and were analyzed for organochlorines. DDE and PCBs were detected in most of the eggs. Mean concentrations of DDE and PCBs differed among colonies and seemed related to local contamination. Concentrations of DDE and PCBs in Common Tern eggs were well below those reported to have adverse effects in this species. In one colony, eggs of known laying sequence were collected. First, second, and third eggs in the clutch did not differ significantly from one another in shell weight, shell thickness, and concentration of DDE or PCBs.
10.2307/1521282|In March 1989 at least 172 Common (Sterna hirundo) and Sandwich (S. sandvicensis) Terns, predominantly the former, were killed by colliding with an electrical cable in Cape Town docks. Mortalities probably occurred early in the morning as birds left a nearby roost for their feeding grounds. The cable with which the birds collided was subsequently lowered by one metre and P.V.C. streamers were suspended from it to improve its visibility. Only two mortalities were recorded in 1990.
10.2307/1521318|Colonies of nesting wading birds and seabirds were studied at coastal sites in Virginia and North Carolina to determine distances at which birds flushed in response to human intrusion. Observers measured up to 3 distances: these were (i) a "dread," or initial panic, (ii) the distance at which the first individual flushed, and (iii) the distance at which the majority of the colony flushed. The total time that birds spent in the air after flushing was also recorded. Mixed colonies of Common Terns-Black Skimmers responded at the greatest distances ("dread"), with respective means of 142 and 130 m; mixed wading bird species were more reluctant to flush (30-50 m average). There were few statistically significant relationships between flushing distances and colony size. Similarly, there were few differences between responses during incubation compared to post-hatching periods. The disturbance distances measured in this study are much greater than the 50 m guideline suggested in a 1976 National Park Service report. I recommend distances of 100 m for Least and Royal Terns and wading birds and 200 m for Common Terns and skimmers for sign-posting of established colonies. Greater distances will be necessary as a buffer before birds become established at a site.
10.2307/1521207|The value of different wetland types to breeding Little Egrets was quantified. Observations were made of foraging adult birds from: four breeding colonies in 1977-78, the birds from which were feeding in ricefields and in permanent and temporary freshwater marshes; one breeding site in 1983 situated near a permanent marsh system; and a different colony in 1984, the birds from which fed in temporary marshes and experimentally flooded fields. Three measures of foraging success were used: biomass intake, capture rate of individual prey items, and percentage of successful pecks. High densities of invertebrates in ricefields in 1977-78 provided high quality feeding sites and contributed to a high average breeding success. Similarly high fish densities in permanent marshes in 1983 favored high rates of food intake and high breeding success of egrets nesting near these marshes. Conversely scarcity of fish in temporary marshes and experimentally flooded fields in 1984 provided poor foraging conditions resulting in low breeding success of birds nesting in this sector. Because of pesticide treatments, use of ricefields by Little Egrets declined considerably, and we believe that in future years egrets in the Camargue will depend exclusively on natural and managed marshes.
10.2307/1521325|White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi) eggs collected from two colonies in southern Texas in 1985 had low mean concentrations of DDE (0.14-0.27 ppm wet weight). DDD, the only other organochlorine contaminant detected, was found in only 1 of 20 eggs. DDE concentrations in eggs were not significantly correlated with eggshell thickness. Mean DDE concentrations were significantly higher in eggs collected from nests where not all of the remaining eggs hatched (1.0 ppm) than in eggs collected from nests where all the remaining eggs hatched (0.15 ppm).
10.2307/1521648|We evaluated concentrations of arsenic, mercury, and selenium in 104 eggs and chlorinated hydrocarbon compounds in 78 eggs of Interior Least Terns (Sterna antillarum athalassos) from Kansas, Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota, and Montana from 1992 through 1994. We also reviewed data on Least Tern reproduction in the region. Arsenic was detected in only 13 eggs, and we doubt that it affected the populations studied. The geometric mean mercury concentration for each state each year was below the level known to affect other avian species. Eighty percent of the eggs contained more than the three  g g<sup>-1</sup> dry-weight selenium concentration considered unsafe for avian reproductive success. Concentrations of chlorinated hydrocarbons were too low to have affected nesting success. Nesting success reported for the study area was not sufficient to support the local populations. Nest flooding and predation probably were the major causes of low recruitment, but determination of the effect level for selenium in Least Tern eggs is needed.
10.2307/1521145| The foraging efficiencies of Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerulea), Snowy Egrets (E. thula), and Tricolored Herons (E. tricolor) were studied in Old Tampa Bay and Safety Harbor, Florida, USA, in an attempt to determine the mechanisms maintaining resource partitioning. I suggest that differences in foraging that were the result of aggression, or the avoidance of aggression, produced different foraging efficiencies whereas differences in foraging that were the result of morphological or physiological differences produced comparable foraging efficiencies. Little Blue Herons had a higher striking efficiency (x = 59.0  4.1) than did Snowy Egrets (42.8  3.2) or Tricolored Herons (33.0  2.7). Little Blue Herons (0.88 g/min) and Tricolored Herons (0.94 g/min) consumed more grams of prey/min than did Snowy Egrets (0.67 g/min). Tricolored Herons consumed more calories of prey per time unit (1116.93 cal/min) than did Little Blue Herons (881.31 cal/min) or Snowy Egrets (563.23 cal/min). With respect to cost of foraging, Snowy Egrets had to forage twice as long each day as did Tricolored Herons and Little Blue Herons. Tricolored Herons and Little Blue Herons are viewed as having morphological or physiological differences whereas Snowy Egrets appear to be forced into using particular resources effecting the time-energy budget of each species. 
10.2307/1521441|We applied discriminant analysis to morphometric data from Chinstrap Penguins (Pygoscelis antarctica) to obtain a function that can be used to predict sex. The function correctly classified 95% of 55 individuals. Bill depth was the most important discriminating variable, with males having deeper bills.
10.2307/1521540| Population size, trends and conservation problems of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) were collated for the Pacific coast of North America using available data up to 1992. About 54,942 birds currently breed there, including roughly 5,848 (5,622 at 90 coastal colonies and at least 226 at 5 interior colonies) and 49,094 (43,358 at 126 coastal colonies and at least 5,736 at 22 interior colonies) for subspecies P. a. cincinatus in Alaska and P. a. albociliatus, from British Columbia to Sinaloa (Mexico), respectively. In addition, 51 and 22 inactive colonies have been documented in coastal and interior regions, respectively. Major historical declines (in the 1800s and early 1900s) occurred in much of Alaska, California, and Mexico, followed by increases in British Columbia, Washington, Oregon and California from the 1920s to 1980s. Recent declines are occurring in British Columbia, Washington, and Baja California. Trends are affected by apparent movements of nesting birds during El Nio oceanographic conditions and due to habitat loss at interior colonies, as well as recent use of artificial nesting habitats in some areas. Conservation problems have included various forms of human disturbance and persecution, marine pollutants, and high levels of predation owing to introduced and natural predators. 
10.2307/1521527| Some 1,137 Double-crested Cormorants were autopsied during a culling program carried out between 1989 and 1992 in the St. Lawrence River Estuary, Qubec, Canada. Males were twice as susceptible to collection (203 versus 100) than females. Descriptive statistics are supplied for the standard body measurements (mass, wing length, total body length and culmen). ANOVAs carried out to detect differences within sexes, but between years and between islands yielded equivocal results. Significant differences in size between males and females existed throughout, but broad overlap prevented sexing based on any single character. Live birds could readily be sexed in the hand, however, using two discriminating characters: wing length and gauge of one of the central rectrices. The derived classification applies to all birds, including those from Raguenau at the eastern end of the Estuary, and allows a 94% accuracy in determining sex in the case of males and 96% in the case of females. 
10.2307/1521463| I observed the hunting activities of a pair of Common Ravens (Corvus corax) in a large mixed-species seabird colony located on Baccalieu Island, Newfoundland. Ravens made a total of 169 hunting patrols along the cliff face during 57 hours of observations over a five-week period in 1979. Of these, 12 patrols were successful (7.1%), with four eggs and eight chicks stolen from Black-legged Kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla) nests. Patrols by a single bird (n = 117) were more common and more successful (8.5%) than those by the pair (n = 50, 4.0% success). The frequency of patrols (X = 3.0/h) did not differ significantly throughout the day or during the study period. Ravens were more likely to patrol along upper portions of the cliff face than along either middle or lower areas; however, predation success was significantly greater on nests at lower elevations. 
10.2307/1521946|River deltas are the focal breeding areas in the Mediterranean region for larid seabirds, but they are being severely altered. The Po Delta is of international importance for Mediterranean and Slender-billed Gulls and for Gull-billed, Sandwich, Common and Little Terns, but their vulnerable breeding sites are still unprotected. No conservation scheme has been proposed for Mediterranean seabirds, despite the vulnerability of several species, and the protection of only a limited number of colonies has been undertaken. We propose the following specific guidelines for the conservation of the gull and tern colonies in the Po Delta, based upon a decade of research on habitat requirements and on several vulnerability factors: (1) In the lagoons, necessary measures will include protection from human disturbance, active management against erosion of a complex of islets, maintenance of the habitats preferred by each species, and creation of new islets to increase habitat availability, especially for the terns; (2) The habitat preferred by each species of conservation concern, islets with bare ground or with 30-100% cover of vegetation lower than 20 cm, should be maintained in these lagoons. In particular, islets from 0.1 to 0.8 ha, with very reduced cover, and far from other lands, should be provided for Little Terns. Islets larger than one ha and with a high grass cover, preferred by Yellow-legged Gulls, should be avoided in order to repel this predatory gull. In the main lagoon, the Valli di Comacchio, the existing 26 islets should be doubled in number and the new islets should have characteristics suitable specifically for the terns, which may be limited by habitat availability; (3) On the outer beaches of the delta, the declining population of Little Terns should be protected from human disturbance by temporary reserves on their colony sites.
10.2307/1521334|In the Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis), female-female pairs spent as much time as heterosexual pairs on their territories, incubating their eggs, feeding their chicks, and engaging in agonistic interactions. Male Ring-billed Gulls did not appear to provide any unique component of parental care that two females paired together could not provide. However, females in female-female pairs worked harder than females in heterosexual pairs in brooding and defending their chicks, presumably to compensate for care normally provided by males. These findings do not support the hypothesis that female-female pairs suffer high rates of egg and chick loss because they do not provide the same level of parental care as heterosexual pairs.
10.2307/1521001| We analyzed 1,126 recoveries of Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) from 1 January 1962 to 30 June 1986. Birds had been banded in their hatching year at colonies in the Great Lakes from 1959 to 1982. Adults (age  2.5 years) summer on the Great Lakes in June and July, winter in the southern Atlantic and Gulf Coast states and the Caribbean Basin from November to March, and migrate between their summer and winter ranges in April-May and August-October. Juveniles (age 0-6 months) use the same migration routes as adults, i.e. the American Atlantic Coast and possibly the Mississippi Flyway, and winter in the same areas as adults. Immatures (age 6-18 months) apparently spend all four seasons on the adult winter range. Recoveries of sub-adults (age 18-30 months) during June and July included both the Great Lakes and the adult winter range while recoveries in other seasons were similar to those of adults but also included areas not normally associated with Great Lakes' Caspian Terns. We suggest that sub-adults have a greater tendency to wander than the three other age groups. We analyzed interchanges of adults among the Great Lakes region and the two other major banding regions (> 5000 chicks banded) in North America as well as interchanges of adults among individual lakes of the Great Lakes and among 10  10 blocks where birds had been banded. Great Lakes' birds showed a high degree of site fidelity. However, there was some exchange of adults between colonies in Washington and California. Although most Great Lakes' terns return to the lake where they were born, more than 55% of adult recoveries occurred beyond the natal 10  10 block in June and July. 
10.2307/1521067| In 1983, Common Terns began egg laying on June 10, first hatching occurred July 3 and fledging started on July 29. For Arctic Terns the same events occurred on June 6, June 27, and July 24, respectively. Clutch size was 2.50 eggs for Common Terns and fledging success was 1.24 young per pair, whereas for Arctic Terns clutch size was 1.98 and fledging success was 1.25 per pair. Mean hatching weight was 15.7 g and mean fledging weight was 122.6 g for Common Terns compared to 14.2 g and 103.8 g for Arctic Terns. Instantaneous growth rate was 7.11 g/day in Common Terns and 6.90 g/day in Arctic Terns. Chicks of the two species were mainly fed with fish (sand lance and caplin) and secondarily with invertebrates (Gammarus sp. and Thysanoessa sp.). Growth rates were comparable to these found in most other studies but for Common Terns were slower than in the Farne Islands and for Arctic Terns were slower than at Shetland, possibly because of different prey composition. /// En 1983, la Sterne commune a dbut la ponte le 10 juin alors que la premire closion et le premier envol se sont produit le 3 juillet et le 29 juillet respectivement. Chez la Sterne arctique ces mmes tapes se sont droules dans l'ordre le 6 juin, le 27 juin et le 24 juillet. Le nombre moyen d'oeufs par nid tait de 2,50 chez la Sterne commune tandis que le succs de la reproduction tait valu  1,24 poussins  l'envol par couple comparativement  1,98 oeufs et 1,25 poussins  l'envol par couple chez la Sterne arctique. Le poids moyen des poussins de la Sterne commune  l'closion et  l'envol tait de 15,7 g et de 122,6 g respectivement comparativement  14,2 g et 103,8 g chez la Sterne arctique. Les poussins des deux espces taient nourris principalement avec des poissons (lanon et capelan) et moins frquemment d'invertbrs (Gammarus sp., Thysanoessa sp.). Les taux de croissance enregistrs ici sont comparables  la plupart des autres tudes du mme genre. Toutefois les poussins de Sterne commune de l'archipel de Mingan croissent moins rapidement que ceux de Farne Islands de mme que ceux de la Sterne arctique par rapport  ceux des Shetland. Les compositions spcifiques respectives du rgime alimentaire pourraient expliquer ces diffrences. 
10.2307/1521581|Sightings of territorial Pacific Herald Petrels (Pterodroma arminjoniana heraldica) over forested ridges of Ta'u Island, American Samoa, and of a downy chick of a Pterodroma petrel near the top of the island indicate the presence of a breeding colony there. The closest known colony of this subspecies is in Tonga, 1210 km to the south-southwest of Ta'u. A Herald Petrel specimen collected from the Ta'u population is described and compared with other Pacific populations.
10.2307/1521279| Common Tern reproductive success on Stratton Island, Maine, was severely affected in 1989 by nocturnal Black-crowned Night-Heron disturbance. Night-herons preyed upon tern chicks and caused adult nocturnal abandonment. Common Tern fledging success in 1989 was 0.24 ( 0.65) chicks/pair. Hatching success was significantly greater but fledging success was lower between early and late nesting terns. Night-heron disturbance allowed Herring and Great Black-backed Gulls, Ruddy Turnstones and ants access to the deserted nests. Nocturnal predators destroyed 51 nests in 1989, and 62 other nests failed due to adult abandonment of eggs and chicks. Our observations suggest that Common Terns cannot distinguish between the similar silhouettes of Black-crowned Night-herons and large owls after dusk and that night-herons alone may cause large-scale desertion in a tern colony. /// El xito reproductivo de la gaviota comn en Isla de Stratton, Maine, fue afectado severamente en 1989 debido a disturbios nocturnos por la yaboa real. Yaboas reales depredaron pichones de gaviota y causaron el abandono nocturno de adultos. El xito de emplumaje de la gaviota comn en 1989 fue de 0.24 ( 0.65) pichones por nido. El xito de nidada fue significativamente mayor pero el xito de emplumaje fue menor en la face temprana de anidaje. Los disturbios debido a visitas de yaboas reales tambin permitieron el acceso de otros depredadores, tales como la gaviota argentea, la gaviota mayor espaldinegra, el playero turco y hormigas, a los nidos abandonados. Depredadores nocturnos destruyeron 51 nidos en 1989, y otros 62 nidos ne tuvieron xito debido al abandono de los huevos y pichones por las gaviotas comunes adultas. Nuestras observaciones sugieren que las yaboas reales en si pueden causar enormes abandonos y reducir el xito reproductivo en una colonia de la gaviota comn. 
10.2307/1521006|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) were first reported breeding in Wyoming in 1928, when one active nest was located on Yellowstone Lake. In 1983 the Double-crested Cormorant breeding population consisted of 629 pairs in 9 colonies, and it had increased to 1477 nesting pairs in 18 colonies by 1986. The marked increase of the breeding population is associated with the construction of irrigation reservoirs. Seventy-three percent of the Double-crested Cormorant colonies in 1986 were on man-made water impoundments. Reservoirs provide isolated islands or flooded trees for nesting substrate. They also probably provide foraging habitat. Although most recent colonies were in flooded vegetation, significantly more cormorants nested on the ground. In spite of recent population increases in Wyoming, it seems unlikely that this trend will continue. Nesting habitat is currently threatened by decay of nest trees and deterioration or loss of nesting islands brought on by excessively high or low water levels. Current breeding populations need to be protected from deterioration of nesting habitat and human disturbance of breeding birds. It will be necessary for natural resource management agencies to implement appropriate management strategies to maintain viable nesting populations of Double-crested Cormorants in Wyoming.
10.2307/1521545|Concerns about Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) have arisen because of their rapid population increase across North America and their economic impact on several aquaculture and commercial fish industries. In spite of the concern for cormorants, little published research is available that addresses either basic population biology questions or management issues. Based on a literature review, I recommend that research be conducted in four areas. First, a large-scale banding and marking program should be initiated so that population models can be used to estimate age- and sex-specific survival and fecundity (as has been done for the Shag [P. aristotelis] in Europe). By marking individual birds, survival and movement rates can be estimated between nesting colonies, which will provide information about potential source versus sink colonies. Second, studies of movements during migration and winter are required. Presently, no data are available on habitat use during migration or on the length-of-stay by individual birds. This has important implications to how cormorants interact with other fish and wildlife species over a broad range. Studies of movements during winter with radio-marked birds should indicate whether the "problem birds" at aquaculture sites are merely a few specialists. Third, limiting factors, such as contaminants and disease, should receive further investigation, especially in light of recent concerns over the outbreak of Newcastle disease. The relationship between contaminant levels and developmental abnormalities in young cormorants in certain areas of the Great Lakes in Canada and the United States remains equivocal. Fourth, further studies are needed to document the economic impacts of cormorants on Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) and other cultured fishes and to determine ways to reduce predation by fish-eating birds. Mesocosm experiments should be conducted to evaluate how different fish extraction rates affect final productivity of fish. Controlled experiments with different exclusion and scaring devices are needed. With radio-marked birds, it should be determined what the behavioral responses are to the different scaring devises. Also, providing alternative wetland feeding sites in regions of fish farm depredation might alleviate some of the pressure on farmers. Studies with radio-marked birds could evaluate effects of manipulation of "natural" wetlands on use by birds during the winter period. Finally, any research directed at the Double-crested Cormorant should also evaluate its interactions with other fisheating waterbirds.
10.2307/1521873|Fish otoliths recovered from pellets of piscivorous birds are often used to reconstruct size and mass of the ingested fish, but erosion of otoliths by gastric fluids usually results in underestimations. We tested the hypothesis that using only uneroded otoliths would greatly improve fish length estimations. In so doing, we compared size-frequency distributions of grayling (Thymallus thymallus) reconstructed from uneroded and eroded otoliths in pellets of Great Cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) with size-frequency distributions from a small sample of stomach contents and with samples from various types of fisheries, all from the Rhine River in Switzerland and Germany. Distributions reconstructed from eroded and uneroded otoliths were significantly different. Distributions from worn otoliths failed to delineate different cohorts and produced strong underestimates of fish lengths, thus not identifying larger grayling at all. Distributions reconstructed from otoliths classified as "uneroded" represented the whole range of fish sizes eaten and showed the different grayling cohorts, similar to the catch samples. Compared to these, however, average length-at-age in cohort 2 was slightly underestimated (ca. 6-9% in 32 cm long grayling). It is concluded that, at least in fish with relatively large and robust otoliths, careful exclusion of otoliths showing signs of erosion can remove much of the bias in indiscriminately reconstructed size-frequency distributions, thus greatly improving conclusions about the age or size composition of fish in the cormorant diet.
10.2307/1521604|We constructed an 80-m-long above-ground tunnel to reach 8 blinds in a colony of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) and American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos), and secured specimens by use of a light-weight telescopic rod with attachments. We visited the tunnel-and-blind system every third day during the breeding seasons of 1994-96 and collected 16 cormorant and 8 pelican eggs, 67 pelican and 61 cormorant carcasses, and 77 live cormorants without leaving the system. Nest abandonment due to investigator disturbance was concentrated in an area within about 20 m of the tunnel entrance. We believe the above system could be useful in other studies of ground-nesting colonial waterbirds, especially those requiring repeated access to a large number of nests and collection of specimens.
10.2307/1521431|In 1991, we examined the nesting habitat, nesting chronology, reproductive performance, and chick growth rates of the Parakeet Auklet (Cyclorrhynchus psittacula) at Buldir Island, Alaska. These auklets nested in rock crevices on vegetated talus slopes, in areas of mixed rock and soil, on vertical cliffs, and among large beach boulders above the high tide line. They also dug earth burrows in areas of deep soil. The timing of nesting events was later in Parakeet Auklets, and their reproductive output (0.51 chicks fledged per egg laid) was slightly lower, than those of three species of crevice-nesting Aethia auklets at Buldir. Parakeet Auklets usually incubated their eggs in 24 h shifts. On average, Parakeet Auklet chicks weighed 27 g at hatching, gained 8.6 g d<sup>-1</sup> during the linear growth period, peaked at 253 g, and eventually dropped to 208 g (about 84% of adult mass) at fledging, ca. 36 days after hatching. The nesting chronology and reproductive performance of Parakeet Auklets subjected to two different levels of disturbance were similar.
10.2307/1520962|The foraging behavior of seven species of ardeids was studied in Tampa Bay, Florida between 1975-1979. The Great Blue Heron, Great Egret, Little Blue Heron, Snowy Egret, and Yellow-crowned Night Heron primarily used the less active methods such as "stand and wait" and "walk slowly". Reddish Egrets and Tricolored Herons used the most energy demanding feeding methods such as "running" and "openwing". Little intraspecific difference in foraging methods was detected between age classes among all seven species or between color phases of the Reddish Egret. The Little Blue Heron had the highest percentage of success at prey capture per unit time. In general, immature herons were less successful at prey capture than were adults. No consistent trend existed when shifts occurred in frequency of feeding techniques with different environmental parameters, though foraging efficiency decreased with an increase in wave height. Reddish Egrets most often oriented into the wind and sun while using the "open-wing" method. Running into the wind with open wings allowed the egret to gain the advantage of increased lift for sustained running and to improve maneuverability.
10.2307/1521059|Estimating prey length by using a bird's bill is not very accurate. At best, prey lengths can only be judged to about the nearest 1-2 cm for small ardeids and to the nearest 3-4 cm for large ardeids. Prey weight estimation based on bill length estimates is even more inexact because any error in gauging prey length is magnified. Unfortunately, it is too easy to analyze and present prey size estimation data beyond their accuracy. Although prey weights can not be assessed well enough to do detailed energetic studies, ways to minimize errors are available that can still make prey size estimation a valuable tool in studying the foraging ecology of piscivorous birds.
10.2307/1521085| Pesticide residues in eggs of White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi) from Utah in 1979 were related to shell thickness and reproductive success in nests from which eggs were taken. Mean shell thickness was greater than that recorded in 1975, but below that of eggs collected before the widespread use of DDT. Levels of DDE were negatively correlated with shell thickness, chicks produced per nest, and hatching success; DDT concentration was negatively correlated with clutch size. Clutch size was reduced from 3.36 in nests with eggs having 0.25 ppm DDT to 3.00 in those having >0.50 ppm DDT. Total chicks produced per nest were 1.76 in nests with 1.50 ppm DDE in eggs and 1.25 where DDE was >3.00 ppm. Despite relatively high mean levels of DDE (2.56 ppm), nests with cracked eggs were less frequent (1.5%) than in the same population in 1975-76 or in a Texas population of White-faced Ibises. Any pesticide related effects on population levels in Utah were masked by an apparent immigration of ibises from Nevada. 
10.2307/1521803|In 1992-1993, we compared the diet of Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) chicks reared in urban and non-urban colonies that made up 46% of the total breeding population of the Quebec portion of the St. Lawrence River. We analyzed the contents of 877 boli regurgitated by chicks and determined the importance of each food item based on percent volume. The main items in the chicks' diet were, in decreasing order of importance, garbage, arthropods, earthworms, fish, and small mammals. Household refuse made up the bulk of garbage in the diet of urban gulls, whereas refuse from nearby poultry farms was important in the diet of non-urban gulls. Chicks more than eight days old consumed more refuse and earthworms and fewer arthropods than younger chicks. A comparison of the chicks' diet in the same colony in 1978 and 1993 showed that the proportions of refuse and earthworms rose while arthropods and fish decreased in recent years. These dietary differences may reflect the recent changes made to waste management pratices and increasing urbanization. Contrary to what many hunters believe, we found no evidence to suggest that Ring-billed Gulls preyed upon dabbling duck eggs or young.
10.2307/1521377|In recent years, numbers of Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) have increased throughout the Great Lakes while numbers of Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) have remained relatively stable. We hypothesized that greater diet flexibility and fewer conspecific predation events contribute to a higher fledging success, hence greater recruitment rate to the Ring-billed Gull population. To provide insight into this hypothesis, we conducted a comparative study of the two species at one location in one year using standardized data collection procedures. While there was no difference in hatching success between the two species, egg failure in Herring Gull clutches was evenly distributed among A-,, B- and C-eggs, whereas in Ring-billed Gull clutches, C-eggs had the highest failure rate. Chick failure in Ring-billed Gull broods was mostly due to known death or disappearance, principally among C-chicks, and mostly before seven days of age. Chick failure in Herring Gull broods was almost entirely due to their disappearance and A-, B- and C-chicks were lost with equal frequency. As egg and chick loss were independent of lay/hatch order in Herring Gulls, we suspect a higher incidence of conspecific predation than in Ring-billed Gulls where mostly C-eggs and chicks were lost. The diet of Herring Gull chicks was primarily fish whereas Ring-billed Gull chicks received fish and insects in equal proportions. Ring-billed Gull parents fed chicks in 2-chick and 3-chick broods at a significantly higher rate than did Herring Gull parents, particularly during the first 16 days of chick age. Breeding success (chicks fledged per pair) was significantly higher for Ring-billed Gulls. We conclude that the higher feeding rate and greater diet flexibility of Ring-billed Gulls compared to Herring Gulls yielded a higher-per-pair productivity. If the patterns identified in this one-year, single-island study can be generalized, differences in feeding and (suspected) predation may have contributed to the numerical increases of Ring-billed Gulls relative to Herring Gulls noted throughout the Great Lakes.
10.2307/1521211|Reclamation of 90% of intertidal land at Teesmouth, northeast England, has left the remaining mudflats, Seal Sands, exposed for only 7.5-8.5 h out of each 12.5 h tidal cycle but surrounded by a suite of man-made and man-modified peripheral wetlands. Shorebirds made extensive use of these wetlands for feeding, especially during severe weather. The extent of use and site choice varied seasonally and interspecifically. Shorebirds used peripheral wetlands both to extend feeding time beyond the period when Seal Sands was uncovered and during the low water period, probably mostly for shelter from strong winds. Peripheral wetlands also provided many of the safe roosting sites at Teesmouth. Conservation effort on estuaries concentrates on the low tidal mudflats used for feeding by shorebirds, often at the expense of peripheral wetlands, especially when these are man-made. Our findings emphasize the importance of peripheral wetlands to the winter survival of shorebirds. Creation of such wetlands is a vital goal in ameliorating reclamation losses to estuaries.
10.2307/1521456|During 1987-1991, we studied and protected a local population of Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) breeding at a barrier beach in Massachusetts. Realizing predation was severely limiting hatching success, we surrounded colonies with non-electric, wire mesh fencing during the 1990 and 1991 breeding seasons to limit terrestrial predator movements into colonies. The results indicated that protected nests in 1990-1991 had a significantly higher hatching rate (73%, 166/227) than unprotected nests observed during the same period (12%, 28/227) and during the entire study from 1987 to 1991 (19%, 137/738). Our data suggest that terrestrial predation may be reduced, hatching rates increased and productivity enhanced with this fence design. We recommend this technique for sites where terrestrial predators limit the nesting success of Least Terns.
10.2307/1521299|I describe the first record of kleptoparasitism between a Fork-tailed Storm-petrel (Oceanodroma furcata) and a Leach's Storm-petrel (O. leucorhoa). Observations were conducted in the Gulf of Alaska.
10.2307/1521731|We compared selected demographic parameters between 1980-82 and 1992-95 of the endangered Caribbean Brown Pelican in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Mean winter counts in 1992-95 (593) were 74% lower than 1980-82 (2,289). Mean young per successful nest was lower in 1992-93 (1.14) than 1980-82 (1.65). DDE, PCBs and mercury levels in egg samples, however, were low and did not adversely affect the species in either study period. Roosting and nesting habitat losses in both study periods were minimal and are not believed to be limiting pelicans. The discrepancy in population counts between study periods in Puerto Rico could be cause for concern because 1990's counts were 32% (593/1840) of the expected mean winter count for a recovered population. Long-term data (i.e., collected over six-eight years) are needed to determine the range of acceptable demographic parameter fluctuations for Caribbean Brown Pelicans.
10.2307/1521480|During 1987-1991, 194 adult and 1,674 juvenile interior Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) were banded during the breeding season within a 201 km stretch of the lower Mississippi River. We attempted to resight Least Terns in subsequent years (1988-1992) to determine site fidelity (the return of a bird to the colony where banded) and distances terns moved from banding sites. Forty percent (78) of all color-marked adults and 1% (19) of all banded juveniles were resighted at least once following banding. Adult Least Terns did not display strong site fidelity. In all, only 42% of the resighted adults were observed at least once at the original banding colony in a subsequent year. Adults appeared as likely to use another colony site as to return to the original banding colony, although a few terns were very loyal to the original colony. The availability of the banding colony site and prior nesting success of the adult at the banding colony did not appear to influence site fidelity. Terns were as likely to use another colony in a subsequent year even when the original colony site was available (above the river surface), or they had nested successfully at the original colony. Our observations support the notion that birds inhabiting unpredictable and variable environments will display little site fidelity toward breeding sites. Even though Least Terns showed little site fidelity to a colony, terns tended to return to the same general region of the river. Most (97%) adult terns moved approximately 9.1 km (median distance, range = 1.5 - 80.0 km) from the original banding colony. Least Tern chicks also displayed little site fidelity for their natal colony. Only one of 19 resighted chicks returned to its natal colony site in a subsequent year. Some adults and a chick banded within our study region dispersed 300 - 1000 km from the Mississippi River valley.
10.2307/1521643|We examined locational and size characteristics of fish schools encountered along transects in Prince William Sound, Alaska, during July-August 1995. We made comparisons between schools that had seabird flocks associated with them and schools that had no flocks nearby. Feeding flocks chose fish schools that were close to shore and in shallow water, as well as those that were smaller than the general population of fish schools. However, fish schools found near shore were significantly smaller than offshore fish schools, suggesting that flocking birds chose feeding habitat rather than school size. Numbers of birds in feeding flocks were positively correlated with fish school chord length and negatively correlated with density and depth of the schools.
10.2307/1521261|Eight species of Ciconiidae and the Shoebill have been recorded from East Africa: Mycteria ibis, Anastomus lamelligerus Temminck, Ciconia nigra, Ciconia abdimii, Ciconia episcopus, Ciconia ciconia, Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis, Leptoptilos crumeniferus and Balaeniceps rex. They are widespread during the non-breeding season but known breeding sites are few. Six of these species are mainly aquatic, feeding on fish, amphibians, reptiles and large invertebrates, whereas three are mainly terrestrial, feeding on insects, and carrion in the case of L. crumenifrus. M. ibis and E. senegalensis have been observed to scavenge on fish regurgitated by cormorants. There are no estimates of numbers of any of the species except the Marabou which is estimated at 5000 in Uganda and 1000-2000 in Kenya. The status of those species that rely primarily on wetlands is threatened by drainage for agriculture and animal husbandry.
10.2307/1521042|Four species of estuarine birds, Black Duck (Anas rubripes), Greater Scaup (Aythya marila), Herring Gull (Larus argentatus) and Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) from Raritan Bay, New Jersey and adjacent beach areas were analyzed for cadmium (Cd) content of livers and stomach contents to determine Concentration Factors (CFs) and whether biological amplification occurred. Cd levels in liver ranged from 254 to 2417 parts per billion (ppb, wet weight). Terns, higher on the food chain than the other species showed the highest absolute mean levels, providing evidence for biological amplification. Terns also had slightly higher CFs than did the other species. CFs ranged from 6.1 to 9.5, being comparable to those found for mercury (Hg), which is known to occur in lipophilic organic form. CFs for Cd tended to be higher than those reported for lead. The role of protein-binding to metallothioneins is considered an important mechanism accounting for concentration and amplification, although the possible occurrence of small amounts of organic Cd in nature can neither be ruled out nor ignored.
10.2307/1521012|From October 1985 to March 1987, 28 Dalmatian Pelicans (Pelecanus crispus) were killed by flying into a power line located between their roosting island and their feeding grounds at Porto-Lago in northern Greece, a major wintering ground for this species. Ninety three percent of the dead birds were immatures, sixty nine percent being first year birds. Using band recoveries of birds banded (color plastic engraved bands) in Greece and in Bulgaria, as part of an international study of the population dynamics of Dalmatian Pelican, we estimated that additional mortality due to the power line would cause a decrease of between 1.3 to 3.5% in the number of breeding pairs in Greece and Bulgaria by the time sexual maturity is reached (3 years old). Since the removal of the power line in November 1986, no dead bird has been found.
10.2307/1521530|Wintering and breeding populations of Double-Crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) in Florida underwent declines in the middle of the 20th century, rebounding in the 1980s. Overall, little conflict occurs between cormorants and the food-fish and game-fish industries in Florida waters. Specific conflicts exist when wintering cormorants feed at inland hatcheries, grow-out ponds, and ornamental-fish ponds, where high-value tropical and pet fish crops may be completely lost to fish-eating birds. These ponds are small in acreage, such that exclusion (netting), scare devices (dogs), or a change in cultural practices (segregating fish by size classes) may be appropriate methods to reduce fish losses to piscivorous birds.
10.2307/1521815|In 1994, we identified two patterns of cannibalism at a Ring-billed Gull colony located on Lake Erie near Port Colborne, Ontario: (1) a color-banded gull flew to its nest with a whole egg or chick (usually alive) in the beak and ate it, or (2) a banded gull consumed an egg or chick located in the vicinity of the nest. We report the details of these cases. During 51 days and 135 h of observation, we recorded 23 separate incidences of egg (N=15) and chick (N=8) cannibalism by six gulls (10% of the banded adults under observation), including both members of a pair and four other males. One male accounted for 74 percent of the observed cannibalism events. The mean clutch size, hatching and fledging success of cannibal pairs (N=5) were not significantly different from those recorded for non-cannibal pairs (N=22; P>0.1). Our observations of color-banded Ring-billed Gulls support those of other authors that most cannibalism events were perpetrated by individuals that exhibited specialized behavior.
10.2307/1521171|We observed flights by wading birds at two mixed-species colonies off Staten Island, New York City, USA. We found interspecific differences in the frequency of flights in relation to tide level and time of day, as well as in the compass bearings taken by birds at both island colonies. Great Egrets and Snowy Egrets overlapped broadly or completely in compass bearings, showed a similar pattern in flight frequency in relation to tide, and used similar feeding areas, primarily tidal flats and a large pond located between the two colonies. Neither species showed a daily pattern in flight frequency. Flight patterns of Glossy Ibises and Cattle Egrets were similar to each other but differed from the other two species. Flight frequency by both species varied during the day, being lowest in early morning. Flight frequency did not vary among tide levels for either species. Most Glossy Ibises and Cattle Egrets flew toward a large landfill. We also observed Glossy Ibises at the same pond that was used by Snowy Egrets and Great Egrets.
10.2307/1521774| The estimation of demographic parameters is important for an understanding of the population dynamics of wading birds. Over the last 20 years, only a few studies have resulted in unbiased estimates of survival rate, dispersal, recruitment, and age at first breeding. Most studies have focused instead on the estimation of breeding success, although the multiplication rate of any wading bird population is more sensitive to adult survival than to fecundity. Interestingly, several applications of recent techniques for the estimation of demographic parameters have used wading birds (e.g., Grey Herons, Little Egrets, and Greater Flamingos) as a model. Such studies have provided important insights in the understanding of the demography of wading birds. However, long-term data are lacking for most wading birds, so that the opportunities to extend such analyses to other species are quite limited. Future knowledge about the demography of wading birds will heavily depend on the development of individually-based banding programs. /// L'estimation des paramtres dmographiques revt une importance capitale pour comprendre la dynamique des populations de Ciconiiformes. Au cours des vingt dernires annees, peu d'etudes ont fourni des estimateurs non biaiss du taux de survie, de la dispersion, du recrutement ou de l'ge de premire reproduction. La plupart des tudes ont plutot privilgi l'estimation du succes reproducteur, alors que le taux de multiplication d'une population de Ciconiiformes est plus sensible  la survie adulte qu la fcondit. De manire interessante, plusieurs application de techniques rcentes dveloppes pour l'estimation des paramtres dmographiques ont utilis des Ciconiiformes (essentiellement le Hron cendr, l'Aigrette garzette et le Flamant rose) comme modles biologiques. Ces tudes ont permis une avance dans la comprhesnion de la dmographie des Ciconiiformes. Cependant, les donnes  longterme manquent pour la plupart des Ciconiiformes de telle sorte que les possibilits d'tendre ces analyses a d'autres espces restent trs limites. La connaissance future de la dmographie des Ciconiiformes dpendra largement du dveloppement de progammes de marquage individuel  long terme. 
10.2307/1521029|The Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) that nested on Falkner Island, Connecticut in 1981 began laying eggs in mid May and continued to lay through mid July. Most of the egg loss that occurred was attributed to nest desertion, infertility, rabbit activity, and storms. Predation by red ants accounted for one-third of the known chick mortality. Nests initiated after 10 June were not as successful as those begun earlier. Much of the temporal variation in reproductive success probably was due to the youth and relative inexperience of many of the pairs whose first eggs were laid more than 10 days after the initial peak of nesting. Because of ant predation and nest abandonment due to vegetative growth, Roseate Terns that nested in vegetated sites on the slopes and top of the island were not as successful as those that nested on the beach. Some of the nesting habitat was modified by placing boards to create and maintain access to nest sites in vegetated areas, and by using boards, driftwood, and old tires to create additional sheltered nest sites on the beach. The Roseate Terns that used these sites had greater reproductive success than those that nested in natural, unmodified sites.
10.2307/1521061|The incidence of DDT (parent compound) declined significantly in the eggs of Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax), White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi), and Black-necked Stilts (Himantopus mexicanus), and showed a downward trend in Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula). Mean DDE residues (breakdown product of DDT) in eggs declined significantly in Black-crowned Night-Herons and showed a downward trend in Black-necked Stilts and Snowy Egrets; however, no trend was apparent for White-faced Ibis. Some night-herons, egrets, and ibis laid thin-shelled eggs that cracked; eggshell thickness was negatively correlated with DDE residues in the egg contents. Ibis were the most sensitive species to DDE-induced shell thinning. Generally, reduced reproductive success for ibis started at lower DDE egg residues (3 ppm) than for either Snowy Egrets (5 ppm) or night-herons (8 ppm). Egg residue profiles, band recoveries, biotelemetry studies, and residues in fish and other prey items implicate the southwestern United States (a wintering area) as an important source of DDT-DDE that caused the most serious reproductive problem encountered during the study (in night-herons nesting at Ruby Lake, Nevada). Available evidence indicates that the three other species, together with night-herons from Oregon and Idaho, winter in Latin America.
10.2307/1521157|The Heron Specialists Group, sponsored by the International Council for Bird Preservation and the International Waterfowl Research Bureau, was established in 1982. Its efforts to date have focused on documentation of the status and distribution of herons in Europe and in their African wintering grounds. A major effort is now underway to expand the Group's activities into the western hemisphere. It is anticipated that New World priorities for heron conservation and research will emphasize wetland protection and management and determination of their wintering ranges.
10.2307/1521190|Reactions of nesting Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) to human disturbance were studied during 1980-82 at heronries in northcentral Colorado. Sixty-seven percent of all human intrusions caused no herons to flush from their nests (minimal response). Local responses (temporary abandonment of nests) were elicited towards 27% of the human disturbances but only 6% resulted in a general response (temporary colony-wide nest abandonment). Herons were most disturbed by land-related activity. Heron response to human activity changed as the breeding season progressed each year. Fledging success ranged from 2.65 to 2.82 young/nesting attempt/colony and from 2.82 to 2.96 young/successful nest/colony, and was sufficient to maintain a stable population. Recommendations to reduce human disturbance of breeding Great Blue Herons are discussed.
10.2307/1521526| The St. Lawrence River Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) population grew from 6,155 breeding pairs in 1979 to 17,854 in 1988. Ground-nesting birds made up 54% of the population (374  70SE in 21 colonies) and tree-nesting ones the remainder (792  338SE in seven colonies). Deterministic modeling led to a forecast of 27,000 pairs in 1993. In order to halt further damage to unique and restricted insular forest ecosystems, a five-year culling program was introduced in 1989 with the following goals: to reduce the breeding population to 10,000 pairs and to discourage tree-nesting. Modeling revealed that these goals could only be attained by lowering recruitment (egg-spraying) in accessible ground nests and by reducing the number of adults in inaccessible forest habitats at the same time. The dual approach-spraying 75% of all nests (5,051  279SE/y) with inert mineral oil in ground-nesting colonies and culling (1,979  66SE/y) breeding birds in arboreal ones-has since reversed population trends. By 1991, three years after the beginning of the program, the estuarine population fell to 12,000 pairs. Periodic control measures will be needed at the end of the five-year program to maintain the population at the 10,000 pairs level. 
10.2307/1521387|We comparatively examined ant occurrence at nests of Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) and Common Terns (Sterna hirundo). Ants of the species Lasius neoniger were found in 48% (124 of 259) Roseate Tern nests and at only 2% (24 of 1,121) Common Tern nests. Nests of both species were more likely to have ants after chicks hatched than prior. The presence of ants in nests was not necessarily associated with mortality. Hatching chicks were more likely to have died if they had ants on them than if they had no ants, but whether ants caused death was often difficult to ascertain. There was no chick mortality during monitoring in 83% of Common Tern and also 83% of Roseate Tern nests in which ants were found and at least one chick hatched. Mean clutch and brood sizes were significantly greater in Roseate Tern nests that experienced ant activity. Placing ant traps near nests may reduce ant activity at nests.
10.2307/1521915| In 1996, we investigated the temporal relationships between courtship feeding and copulation behavior in the Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) at a colony on Lake Erie where previous work found no relationship between feeding and subsequent mounts or copulations (Wiggins and Morris 1988). Our purpose was to determine whether a conclusion about the relationship might be influenced by an arbitrary decision about the required time between the two events to show a correlation. Specifically, we tested the hypothesis that there was no difference in female receptivity to copulation attempts following a single feed compared to "strings" of feeds (two or more within an observation period). Neither mounts nor copulations were predictably preceded by feeds. Of 47 mounts recorded, 36 (76.5%) were preceded by feeds; 27 occurred within 5 min of the feed (1.850.23 min), while the other nine occurred an average of 53.0 min (12.67) after a feed. Of the 36 mounts preceded by a feed, only four (11.1%) were preceded by "strings" of feeds. We conclude that the data do not provide evidence for "strings" of feeds prior to mounts or copulations, and that Common Tern females do not exchange copulations for food, at least around the time of egg laying. 
10.2307/1521363|We observed extensive mortality (eggs and chicks) of the endangered interior population of the Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) and threatened Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus) caused by natural flooding during the 1990 breeding season along the Platte River, Nebraska. Aerial videography of the Platte River before and after the flood revealed a 78% reduction of perennial vegetation on sandbars. The flood scoured vegetation from sandbars and greatly increased the amount of barren sandbar habitat that nesting Least Terns and Piping Plovers use. A review of river gauging station data indicated that flooding of the 1990 magnitude or greater can be expected to occur about once every nine years. We recommend a review of the annual operating plans of managed rivers to account for the effects of dam discharges on Least Terns and Piping Plovers.
10.2307/1521336|We compared the length and number of absences from the colony/day and the prey delivered to the young of Common Murres (Uria aalge) and Razorbills (Alca torda) which carried radio transmitters, and controls of these species without transmitters. The transmitters were mounted on the upper side of the tail. Birds with transmitters tended to make fewer trips/day, make fewer short trips and return more often without a fish for their chick than controls. These results indicate possible adverse impacts of transmitters on the energetics and foraging behavior of alcids. The various merits of tail and back-mounted transmitters for alcids are discussed.
10.2307/1521278|Growth rates of Great Egret (Casmerodius albus), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), and Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) chicks to 18 days-of-age were estimated from repeated measurements of chicks in broods of three young. Weight gain (g/day) or increase in length (mm/day) of forearm, tarsus, or culmen did not differ between Black-crowned Night-Heron chicks at a colony in Rhode Island and a colony in Texas. In Black-crowned Night-Herons and Great Egrets, the last chick (C-chick) to hatch had lower growth rates than the first (A-) or second (B-) hatched chick. Black-crowned Night-Heron and Great Egret A-chicks gained weight faster than Snowy Egret A-chicks; however, growth rates of the forearm, tarsus, or culmen each were not different among the three species. Equations based on the growth rate of culmen, forearm, or tarsus for repeatedly measured A-chicks estimated age of Great Egret, Snowy Egret, and Black-crowned Night-Heron chicks collected elsewhere to within two days of known age.
10.2307/1521442|We studied nest site selection selection by Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) for three breeding seasons (1987-1989) on Prall's Island, a 32-ha island in the Authur Kill in New York Harbor. Nests were three to four times more numerous along the West Shore (WS) than the East Shore (ES). The slope of the shore, the presence of sandy areas, and the amounts of garbage-wrack and shoreline vegetation correlated significantly with nest density. Three-egg clutches were significantly more common in WS nests than ES nests in 1987 and 1989. Empty nests were more common along the ES than along the WS in all three years. Egg masses and dimensions were similar in nests along both shores. Recent governmental efforts to reduce the amount of floatable garbage in local waterways has resulted in less debris along the Prall's Island shoreline. Because Herring Gulls on both shores appear to rely, in part, on the protection afforded by this shoreline debris, further decrease in wrack might affect nest site selection and, perhaps, breeding success.
10.2307/1521077| Timing of nesting by Brown Pelicans Pelicanus occidentalis was studied by observing 318 undisturbed nests on Taboga island, Bay of Panama, during January-July, 1981. Clutch size averaged 2.83 eggs, and an average of 1.16 independent young were produced per nest. More than 96% of production was from 3-egg clutches, and rates of production from nests with 1- and 2-egg clutches were disproportionately low. Adult Brown Pelicans arrived in the Bay of Panama during January, early in the seasonal period of wind-driven upwelling. Offshore winds and upwelling ended in April, and most adult and young pelicans left the Bay of Panama by mid August. Upwelling faded and recurred three times during the 4-month long dry season. Each time water temperature dropped, a surge of courtship and nesting activity occurred, resulting in two major peaks and one minor peak in nest construction and egg laying. Two increases in the rate at which nests failed occurred when water temperature increased. Almost half the losses occurred before eggs hatched, and one-fourth while young were naked. A reproductive advantage is gained by arriving in the Bay of Panama and beginning nesting early in the dry (upwelling) season, and an additional advantage is accrued by beginning a nest when water temperatures are decreasing or below 24C. 
10.2307/1521311|Foraging trips of White Pelicans (Pelecanus onocrotalus) breeding on Lake Mikri Prespa, Greece and fishing in distant wetlands were studied during 1983, 1985, 1986 and 1987. Flight patterns of these trips showed seasonal and diurnal variation in departure and arrival time, in flock size and in flight direction. Surveys of all wetlands in Greece to a radius of 315 km from Lake Mikri Prespa revealed that White Pelicans utilized different food areas at the various stages of their breeding season, traveling daily distances ranging to 177 km one way. Early in the breeding period, pelicans flew a minimum round trip of 66 km to Lake Kastoria to obtain food and returned to the nesting colony for the night. As the season progressed, pelicans flew daily roundtrips of 354 km from Lake Mikri Prespa to Lake Kerkini and Axios delta. After chicks fledged, a number of White Pelicans remained overnight on the feeding grounds. Conservation of this endangered species in Europe requires protection not only of the breeding habitat in Lake Mikri Prespa but of the wetlands used for foraging, as well.
10.2307/1521543|Responsibilities for the management of damage by Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) and other fish-eating birds to fish farmers are shared by two federal agencies (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and U.S. Department of Agriculture-Animal Damage Control), state authorities, and individual aquaculture producers. Although the principal aim of the Animal Damage Control program is for managing migratory bird conflicts and damage problems, the program is reflective of contemporary values and attempts to address both prevention and correction of wildlife damage problems. Its services are aimed to provide acceptable balances between human interests and wildlife needs. However, the management problem associated with cormorants and growing aquaculture developments is complex, and solutions are possible only through an integrated study approach by all concerned parties.
10.2307/1521243|The Pelican Research Group, sponsored by the International Council for Bird Preservation and the International Waterfowl Research Bureau, was established to provide guidance for the study and conservation of pelicans worldwide. Its efforts in the past four years have concentrated on studying the breeding ecology of Pelecanus crispus and a survey of pesticide effects of Pelecanus philippensis. Future plans in the Old World include color banding and study of European, African, and Philippine species as well as survey and monitoring of water bird breeding colonies in Turkey, Africa, and Middle East, and Asia.
10.2307/1521396|The influence of forced site change on the dispersal and breeding of color-banded adult Black-legged Kittiwakes, Rissa tridactyla, from a warehouse colony at North Shields, Tyne and Wear, England was examined. In 1991 (the first year that kittiwakes were prevented from nesting at the warehouse colony), only 43% of the surviving adult kittiwakes bred. Although they were unable to nest on their original sites, 54 (83%) of these birds bred in the immediate area of the warehouse where they nested on sites that had not previously been used by nesting kittiwakes. Eleven of the birds nested at other colonies in 1991. In 1992, a further 61 of the surviving kittiwakes moved and nested at other colonies within 5 km of the North Shields colony. The distribution of kittiwakes within one of the colonies in 1992 was influenced by their nest position at the warehouse colony in 1990. It is evident that the disturbance was still having an effect on the kittiwakes in 1992 as only 54% of the surviving birds that had bred at the North Shields colony in 1990 and 1991 returned to breed at the North Shields colony in 1992. Even in 1993, a further three of the kittiwakes bred in different colonies to those in which they had nested in 1992. In each year of the study, the proportion of kittiwakes that bred at the North Shields colony or moved to other colonies did not differ in relation to sex, breeding experience or nest position at the warehouse colony in 1990. The forced site change resulted in extensive non-breeding, low productivity and a potential reduction in lifetime reproductive success for most of the birds involved.
10.2307/1521729|We studied foraging habitat use of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) from three coastal colonies using United States Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory data within a geographic information system (GIS). Observers followed storks from breeding colonies to foraging sites in a fixed-winged aircraft. The main objectives of the study were to estimate the foraging range of each Wood Stork colony, determine what wetland types were used in relation to their availability and spatial distribution, and determine how foraging habitat use was related to tidal stage. Storks foraged in tidal creeks during lower tide levels when prey were concentrated in shallower water, and foraged more in palustrine (freshwater) wetlands when tide levels were high. Predictability of foraging habitat use based on habitat distribution varied among colonies and depended on how wetland types were aggregated. Foraging locations were spatially clustered, in some cases by habitat type (estuarine vs. palustrine). These spatial clusterings may be explained by the proximity of a foraging location to the colony and by the habitat types around the colony. Storks also flew longer distances to forage in palustrine sites than in estuarine sites.
10.2307/1521577| Although flamingos in Haiti can still be found in most areas of their historical range, survey results indicate that numbers have declined drastically over the last 50 years. The coastal mangrove lagoons between Grand Saline and Gonaves, the inland lakes of tang Saumtre and Trou Caman, and Ile de la Gonve have been, and remained, the major areas used by flamingos. The species has been extripated from areas with high human population densities (Ile  Vache, Les Cayes, and Cap-Hatien). No evidence of breeding activity was obtained. The last nesting colony known to occur in Haiti was reported in 1928. Available data suggest that Haiti is mostly utilized by flamingos for feeding and roosting during non-breeding, winter dispersal from Great Inagua, and perhaps Cuba. Flamingo numbers in Haiti are estimated at about 900 (600) birds. Population trends in Haiti are likely declining due to increasing human disturbance, habitat degradation, and exploitation for food and trade. 
10.2307/1521596|In the early 1900s, 13 species of gulls, terns, herons and egrets nested in the coastal zone of North Carolina. Four of these, Least Tern, Gull-billed Tern, Snowy Egret and Great Egret were uncommon or rare. By the time the first coast wide censuses of all species were completed in the 1970s, 23 species were nesting, and populations of most appeared relatively stable or were increasing. No species is known to have been extirpated from the state. Prior to the initiation of dredging in the coastal sounds, all colonies of gulls and terns were on natural beaches or islands while most heronries were in coastal swamps. By the 1970s, most nesting sites for gulls, terns and waders were in the estuarine zone and nearly 50 percent of all sites were on man-made or man-modified substrate. In the early 1900s, the Audubon Society of North Carolina provided the first protection for these birds, and the first sites were protected by wardens. By 1995, about 65 percent of all sites were protected by private, state or federal agencies. The outlook is guardedly optimistic. Maintenance of sites by the deposition of dredged material may decline as costs of dredging coastal channels and competition for dredged material escalates. Management agencies, however, are showing strong interest in the welfare of these species, and the level of effort directed toward protection and management is increasing.
10.2307/1521417|The ability of the creche-forming crested terns to recognize their own eggs previously has been tested only once (Buckley and Buckley 1972). I examined egg recognition in Elegant Terns (Sterna elegans) by adding a foreign egg to normal single-egg clutches and monitoring the acceptance or rejection of the foreign egg. At 30 nests twinned at six or more days into the incubation period, all foreign eggs were rejected, while at 30 nests twinned at 1-5 days of incubation, 13 of 30 foreign eggs were rejected. No resident eggs were rejected. Parents likely use egg color and pattern variation as aids in locating their own otherwise indistinct nest site within the tightly packed (9-10 nests/ m<sup>2</sup>) nesting group. Parents' variable tolerance of a foreign egg early in incubation suggests that egg recognition is learned.
10.2307/1520982|Yellow-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax violaceus), Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerulea), and Green-backed Herons (Butorides striatus) collected in northeastern Louisiana from July-September 1980 exhibited different diets. Yellow-crowned Night-Herons fed mostly on crayfish (74% by weight) and Green-backed Herons fed primarily on fish (93% by weight). The diet of Little Blue Herons was diverse, including fish (61%), crustaceans (11%), insects (13%), and arachnids (14%). Yellow-crowned Night-Herons captured larger prey than did either of the smaller herons. Green-backed Herons took larger prey and a greater range of prey sizes than did the larger Little Blue Herons.
10.2307/1521438|I analyzed seabird associations with marine turtles observed during 22 research vessel cruises in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean (ETP) from 1976-1990. Of 3,032 individual turtles sighted, 176 (5.8%) were accompanied by a total of 412 birds of 13 species, with three species of boobies accounting for 63% of the associated birds. The mean number of birds per associated turtle was 2.3 (S.D. = 9.63; range 1-125); single birds occurred with 82% of the associated turtles. Seabirds utilized turtles the same way they used other floating objects on the ocean, i.e., as roosting platforms and to feed on fish that aggregated beneath them. Larger flocks (i.e., > 5 birds) occurred with turtles only when the turtles were associated with flotsam and schools of predatory fish; in each of these cases birds foraged over the fish and appeared to be only incidentally associated with turtles. The olive ridley (Lepidochelys olivacea) is by far the most abundant sea turtle of the five species that occur in the ETP and the only species observed with associated birds. Although millions of olive ridleys have been harvested in the ETP over the past several decades, it is stiil an abundant species and continues to represent a small but contributing resource for foraging seabirds, especially boobies.
10.2307/1520967|We studied the foraging behavior of nine species of birds at a garbage dump in Deerfield Beach, Florida. Bulldozers working over the dump affected the foraging behavior of each species. When the bulldozers operated, Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) generally fed within 10 m of them, Ring-billed Gulls (L. delawarensis) fed 10-20 m from them, and Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) foraged everywhere. Very few Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) and passerines used the dump while bulldozers were active. When the bulldozers stopped the species composition shifted: Laughing Gulls departed, Ring-billed and Herring Gulls increased in numbers, and passerines arrived. The gulls predominantly used the top surface, the egrets used all surfaces, the passerines fed at the edges. The number of Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) increased continuously during the first 45 min after bulldozing ceased. Interfood intervals (time between obtaining food items) varied among species and age classes. In gulls, first year birds had longer interfood intervals than did adults when bulldozers operated, but, except for Ring-billed Gull, these differences disappeared when bulldozers stopped. Laughing Gulls had shorter interfood intervals than did Ring-billed Gulls, and Herring Gulls had longer interfood intervals than did Ring-bills. Among passerines, Boat-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus major) had the longest intervals, and some male grackles were pirates. Cattle Egrets had the longest interfood intervals.
10.2307/1521474|We examined the potential of using conditioned aversion to reduce predation by Common Ravens (Corvus corax) on eggs of the endangered California Least Tern (Sterna antillarum browni). In 1991, we placed Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) eggs injected with 30 mg (active ingredient) methiocarb near eight raven nest sites at the U. S. Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton, CA. All raven pairs learned to avoid the treated eggs within 4-5 days, and at seven sites egg removal was minimal throughout the 4-5 week trial period. Later, we established a simulated Least Tern colony on the beach, and a pair of ravens that had previously learned to avoid quail eggs placed near their nests dominated access to the site, actively excluded neighboring ravens, and resumed taking quail eggs. This response indicated that the previously acquired aversion was site-related and not transferrable to eggs encountered in a different location. From 15 April to 4 June 1992, we placed quail eggs injected with 30 mg methiocarb at three California Least Tern colonies at Camp Pendleton. Methiocarb-treated eggs were taken by ravens at each location, but no tern eggs were lost to ravens. Ravens that nested near the Least Tern colonies actively defended their territories against intruding ravens thereby excluding them from the tern colonies as well. In contrast to 1989-1991, when up to 10 ravens had been removed yearly for predator control, none was killed in 1992. We conclude that proper deployment of eggs treated with methiocarb or a similar aversive agent can be a useful, nonlethal means of reducing raven predation at Least Tern colonies.
10.2307/1520961|Fourteen species of herons (Ardeidae) occur in Australia. Five species are endemic. Three extend to Southeast Asia; three occur in Australia, Southeast Asia, and Africa; and three are cosmopolitan. Australian herons use the same foraging methods as do North American herons and no apparent differences in the behavior of the cosmopolitan species from that reported for conspecifics on other continents were noted. Species differ ecologically by size, time of foraging (days vs. night) and habitat. Differences in habitat include depth of water and the species, height, and density of vegetation where birds foraged.
10.2307/1521699|We compare long-term movement behavior, breeding site philopatry, population dynamics and prey choice of White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) and Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) in order to illustrate (1) differences in strategies for exploiting spatially and temporally unpredictable food resources in wetlands of the southeastern U.S., and (2) the temporal and geographic scale at which conservation strategies for these species must be targeted. Since the 1930s, the U.S. White Ibis population has made a series of long-range (>400 km) shifts in the center of its breeding range. Very large colonies seem to exist for less than 15 years, and to be supported by at least 800 km<sup>2</sup> of wetlands. Movements may be prompted either by degrading breeding conditions caused by both man-made and natural disturbances, or by attraction to abnormally high concentrations of prey. Wood Storks have also undergone large scale shifts in the center of breeding, but are much more philopatric to breeding sites (often >25 yr). They may be locally buffered from the unpredictability of food resources by the ability to forage at large distances from their colonies, and by being associated with more permanent wetlands. Preservation of specific colony sites and associated wetlands may well aid in conserving Wood Stork populations. In contrast, nomadic ibises require a different conservation approach, one that protects a geographically widespread network of wetland ecosystems.
10.2307/1521301|The long-term conservation of seabirds requires that we identify and protect globally significant seabird breeding and foraging sites. This paper proposes a revised classification of seabird breeding sites that distinguishes between significance at the national, regional, and international levels. It also discusses the information required for such classification and examines possible means of acquiring and ensuring the protection of such sites as sanctuaries.
10.2307/1521808| Population density, foraging microhabitat and diet composition were analyzed for White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) and Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus) feeding in the rice field system of "Sur del Jbaro" (Sancti Spiritus, Cuba) from May to December 1992. Population density for E. albus ranged from 2.2 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup> in May to 23.2 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup> in October, and for P. falcinellus from 1.4 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup> in August to 217 individuals ha<sup>-1</sup> in October. Both species of ibis shared the same main foraging microhabitats, except in October when, coinciding with their highest population densities, they segregated their foraging grounds. White Ibis foraged mainly in recently muddied fields where, owing to the action of machinery, an abundance of crabs and aquatic insects were available; Glossy Ibis concentrated in flooded fields where mature rice was shedding its grain. Overall, these species segregated on diet: White Ibis fed on crabs (48%), aquatic insects (37%) and fish (15%); the Glossy Ibis fed on rice grains (58%), aquatic insects (26%) and crabs (15%). A quantitative assessment of the granivorous feeding habits of Glossy Ibis is presented in this paper for the first time. We suggest that Glossy Ibis may be primarily a plant eater in certain situations, shifting to an animal-food based diet during the breeding season. /// Se han analizado la densidad de poblacin, el microhabitat de alimentacin y la composicin de la dieta para el Coco Blanco (Eudocimus albus) y el Coco Preto (Plegadis falcinellus), mientras se alimentaban en los arrozales de "Sur del Jbaro" (Sancti Spiritus, Cuba) entre mayo y diciembre de 1992. La densidad de poblacin del Coco Blanco vari entre 2,2 individuos ha<sup>-1</sup> en mayo y 23,2 individuos ha<sup>-1</sup> en octubre, y la del Coco Preto entre 1,4 individuos ha<sup>-1</sup> en agosto y 217 individuos ha<sup>-1</sup> en octubre. Ambas especies comparten los principales tipos de microhabitat, excepto en octubre, cuando coincidiendo con sus mximas densidades, segregan sus comederos. Los Cocos Blancos explotan preferentemente los campos fangueados, dnde la accin de la maquinaria pone a su disposicin numerosos cangrejos e insectos acuticos. Los Cocos Pretos se concentran en los campos inundados con espigas de arroz maduras que van desprendiendo semillas. Globalmente los dos ibis segregan sus dietas. El Coco Blanco se alimenta de crustceos (48%), insectos acuticos (37%) y peces (15%). El Coco Preto se alimenta de arroz (58%), insectos acuticos (26%) y crustceos (15%). Por vez primera se describen cuantitativamente los hbitos granvoros del Coco Preto. Se sugiere que esta especie puede ser un fitfago primario que pasa a una dieta carnvora durante la poca de reproduccin. 
10.2307/1521821|We evaluated shell thickness of Interior Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) eggs collected at Salt Plains National Wildlife Refuge, Oklahoma, in 1993-1994 in response to recent findings of cracked eggs. There was no relationship between eggshell thickness and the condition or status of the egg when collected (e.g., abandoned). Shell thickness of eggs from Salt Plains averaged 0.153 mm and was similar to thicknesses of eggs of coastal Least Terns that were collected prior to use of DDT, which suggested that eggshell thinning and DDE concentrations do not threaten Least Terns at Salt Plains. However, eggs from Salt Plains were thinner than eggs from South Dakota in 1989-1990.
10.2307/1521165|I studied foraging behavior in 15 species of gulls in North America, Africa, Australia, and Europe in different inshore and terrestrial feeding situations and habitats to test the hypothesis that prey type, habitat, and foraging method diversity are greater in the larger gulls. For all gulls, picking up an item from the ground was the commonest foraging method I found (48%), followed by surface dipping (21%), and jump plunge (9%). Interfood interval related directly to food size. Of the natural food items, intervals between captures were longest for large food items (crabs, worms) and shortest for small items (crustaceans, insects). In similar habitats interfood intervals were shortest for the small gulls, and longest for the larger gulls. Overall, habitat and foraging method diversity did not seem to relate to size of gull or age of maturity. Regression analysis indicated that 70% of the variance in the interfood interval was explained by food type, species, age, foraging method, and habitat.
10.2307/1521701|Most bird monitoring programs aim at detecting changes in numbers in order to estimate the health of populations, to identify the causes of fluctuations, or to measure the success of management. These objectives may be difficult to attain for colonial waterbirds. Large scale movements, unpredictable dispersion and demographic factors related to long lived birds tend to limit the indicative value of bird numbers, particularly at the local scale. In the Camargue region of France, 9 species of colonial Charadriiformes have been monitored since 1956. For 5 species, regional breeding population fluctuations did not indicate actual conservation problems. For at least 3 species, numbers increased as a result of immigration and the Camargue is apparently a sink. Breeding success may be a more powerful indicator of population health. A comparative analysis of numbers at different spatial scales seems necessary to identify species-specific causes of changes in numbers, and to prioritize conservation strategies.
10.2307/1521531|The Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) has been known from the south-central United States since pre-Colonial times. Although primarily a wintering species, this cormorant has occasionally nested in swamp forests throughout the region. Wintering populations have been largest in coastal areas. Resident populations disappeared and wintering populations declined through the middle of this century, only to rebound in the 1980s. Declines have likely been a result of clearing and draining of bottomland forest, direct harassment from humans, and degradation of aquatic environments caused by navigation and flood control projects and pesticide contamination. Recent population increases seem related to the banning of persistent pesticides but have been coincident with the development of catfish farming in the mid-South. It seems likely that cormorants will once again establish breeding populations in the mid-South, but economic losses attributed to cormorants have now positioned the species on political and literal firing lines.
10.2307/1521028|Nest site selection of a fresh water Common Tern population in New York State was studied. Two hypotheses were tested experimentally: 1) The nest spacing pattern of Common Terns is non-random within a cluster of nests; and, 2) Common Terns choose nest sites based on habitat characteristics. In addition to using chi-square tests, a new statistical test was developed for the analysis of nest spacing patterns. Results showed that Common Terns nested non-randomly on an island. Nests within a cluster were regularly spaced when considering the dates the nests were established. Later nests were placed between early nests instead of being added onto the existing nest aggregation. Data obtained from an experimentally manipulated substrate plot indicate that Common Terns exhibited active nest site selection, favoring grass substrate over stony substrate.
10.2307/1521651|Nine vocalizations are identified that contribute to the vocal repertoire of adult Forster's Terns (Sterna forsteri): Advertisement, Recognition, Contact, Pair-Bond, Submissive, Alarm, Agonistic, Threat, and Swoop-and-Soar. Audiospectrograms are provided that indicate the structural details of each vocalization. Tonal and harsh vocalization segments/figures, or combinations of both, contribute to the vocal repertoire. Several vocalizations have associated visual display postures. Based on breeding season behavioral observations in conjunction with the vocalization recordings, the vocalizations of Forster's Tern can be grouped according to the functional categories of approach and recognition, caller localization and pair/group maintenance (mate-mate and parent-chick), alarm/appeasement (solicitation), and alarm/threat/aggression. Forster's Tern shares several specific vocalization types with other members of the tribe Sternini. The situational contexts in which the Advertisement vocalization is used suggests it plays a role in signaling species and individual identity. A potentially unique characteristic of the vocal repertoire of Forster's Tern, at least among the Sternini, is the inclusion of a vocalization (the Submissive) that can be used to signal either appeasement or alarm. Four Forster's Tern chick/fledgling vocalizations are described in which tonal elements seem to be lacking.
10.2307/1521904|Concern for the status of Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) breeding populations in eastern Canada motivated a study of the factors influencing their breeding success. In this paper we report on the role of habitat, weather and predation as determinants or correlates of puffin breeding success on Great Island, Newfoundland in 1992-1993. We found that nest density was related to distance from shore, and that breeding success was related to distance from shore and to slope. Aspect was an important predictor of timing of breeding but was not related to breeding success. Thus, it appeared that preferred areas were close to shore, and optimal areas were on slopes. Above normal rainfall caused nest flooding that reduced hatching success and increased the mortality of young chicks, although not in a predictable manner in relation to the habitat categories used in this study. There was no evidence that gull predation reduced breeding success. In the absence of investigator disturbance, overall breeding success was similar to average values reported for British colonies.
10.2307/1521259|The United States breeding population of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) has decreased over the last 30 years, and in 1984 the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service listed that population as endangered. The decrease in numbers has been attributed largely to loss of foraging habitat. When the U.S. Department of Energy decided to restart the L-Reactor at the Savannah River Plant, there was concern that cooling water from this reactor would increase the water level in the Steel Creek Delta and make this area unavailable to foraging Wood Storks. To replace the potentially lost foraging habitat, fourteen ha of ponds were created at the site of Kathwood Lake on the National Audubon Society's Silver Bluff Plantation Sanctuary in 1985. These ponds were stocked with aquatic prey, and managed specifically for Wood Storks. We discuss the patterns of visitation of storks and other wading birds to the artificial ponds. Wood Storks foraged on the ponds for over two months. A maximum of 97 storks were counted at the ponds at one time.
10.2307/1521859| We identified two distinct populations of Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) with different dispersal patterns, based on analysis of data from 217 banding recoveries and observations of 172 wing-marked birds. One population occurs in the western part of the Iberian Peninsula, and the other on the eastern coast of Spain. The Western population seems to be isolated from all other European populations, because its dispersal range was different throughout the year, except during winter, when individuals mixed with members of other populations in northwestern Africa. Interchanges between birds from both the Spanish Eastern and French Southern (the Camargue) populations are likely to occur during the breeding season. /// El anlisis de 217 recuperaciones de Garcetas Comunes (Egretta garzetta) y 172 observaciones de aves con marcas alares permiti identificar dos poblaciones con diferentes rangos de dispersin: una en el este y otra en el oeste de la Pennsula Ibrica. La poblacin oeste parece aislada de otras poblaciones europeas, ya que su rango de dispersin es diferente al de las dems poblaciones durante todo el ao (excepto en invierno, cuando se mezclan en el noroeste de Africa). Entre las poblaciones del este de Espaa y del sur de Francia existe intercambio de aves en la poca reproductora. 
10.2307/1521583|We examined the vertical nest stratification in a herony in Madagascar. At the Antanarivo Hunt Club lake, five species of Ciconiiformes nested on an island covered with low shrubs and five scattered trees. There were significant differences in nest stratification, but these were not related directly to body size as predicted by Burger (1978a). The species present were relatively similar in size and used the heterogeneous vegetation in different ways. The nesting pattern reflects the scarcity of trees, and the preponderance and relative aggressiveness of Cattle Egrets.
10.2307/1521058| Observations of 10 tree-nesting broods of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) on Iles de la Madeleine (Qubec) show that the frequency of reliefs in nest attendance and foraging journeys, as well as that of the feeding periods and single feeds, varies as a function of the age of the brood. These frequencies tend to increase gradually up to the 30th day after hatching and decrease gradually thereafter. Nest attendance is close to 100% during the first few weeks following hatching; thereafter, parent birds are gradually more frequently away, and finally return to the nest only to feed young. The efforts of adults to feed the young (feeding periods and returns from foraging) increase gradually during the day; they reach high values in early morning and increase again thereafter by mid-day to a maximum in the hours just before sunset. Male and female invest equal efforts in nest attendance and the feeding of young; they indifferently feed any of the chicks, at least in the case of both 2-chick nests where male and female could be distinguished. However, the female seems to feed nestlings more frequently during the first few days following hatching. /// L'observation de 10 niches de Cormorans  aigrettes (Phalacrocorax auritus) arboricoles des les de la Madeleine (Qubec) montre que la frquence des relves au nid et des voyages de pche effectus par les parents, de mme que celle des priodes d'alimentation des jeunes et des bols alimentaires servis aux poussins, varient en fonction de l'ge de la niche. Ces frquences tendent  augmenter graduellement jusqu'au 30e jour environ aprs l'closion et diminuent graduellement par la suite. /// Les efforts des parents pour nourrir les jeunes (frquence des priodes d'alimentation et retours des aires de pche) augmentent graduellement au cours de la journe; ils atteignent des valeurs leves en fin de matine et d'aprs-midi et  l'approche du coucher du soleil. Mles et femelles investissent autant d'efforts dans l'alimentation des jeunes et la garde du nid: ils alimentent indiffremment l'un ou l'autre des poussins, du moins dans le cas des deux niches de deux poussins o mles et femelles ont pu tre identifis. Cependant, la femelle semble alimenter plus souvent les jeunes au cours des premiers jours suivant l'closion. 
10.2307/1521653|We examined growth of several body components in Laughing Gull (Larus atricilla) nestlings to determine a simple method to estimate age of chicks based on a single visit to the nest. Head-bill length provided the most precise and repeatable estimate of age of the several components we measured. The cubic equation we developed estimated age with a standard error of 1.93 days. Use of head-bill length is a suitable technique for aging Laughing Gull nestlings when a precision of one to two days is sufficient.
10.2307/1521214| Ducks Unlimited Canada undertook a study in 1983 to assess the agricultural and waterfowl benefits resulting from operation of a series of backflood impoundments in the Ribstone Irrigation System, Alberta, Canada. Quantity of sedge/bluegrass hay forage was significantly greater (P<0.0001) on flooded than unflooded impoundments (95.3  5.3 versus 29.9  5.9 g/0.25 m<sup>2</sup>). Quality of hay was slightly lower on flooded impoundments; however, standing crops of nutrients were greater on flooded impoundments because of the greater biomass. Indicated breeding pair density was 1.5 per ha on flooded impoundments compared with 1.0 per ha on unflooded impoundments. Much of the difference was due to an absence of divers on unflooded impoundments. Nest densities were greater in post-flooded habitats (0.29 nests/ha) than in unflooded habitats (0.14 nests/ha). There was little difference in nest initiation dates between ducks on the Ribstone Irrigation System and 10 nearby marshes except for a slight delay in nesting by early breeding species and a slight advancement by late breeding species. Brood densities throughout the summer were greater on flooded impoundments than unflooded impoundments, again primarily due to the absence of diving duck species on unflooded impoundments. We conclude that properly managed backflood impoundments create improved forage yields for farmers, as well as provide improved habitat for waterfowl. 
10.2307/1521460|Considerable nest-site competition was documented between Cassin's Auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) and Rhinoceros Auklets (Cerorhinca monocerata), and Cassin's Auklets and Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba), on Southeast Farallon Island, California. Competitive interactions involved the two larger species usurping nest sites, pithing eggs, and killing young of Cassin's Auklets. Pigeon Guillemots removed experimentally placed foreign eggs from their nest sites.
10.2307/1521233|We studied nesting Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) on Granite Island, northern Lake Superior, during five breeding seasons from 1978 to 1984 (1980 and 1981 excluded) to determine whether relationships existed between the size, sex and position in the laying sequence of Ring-billed Gull eggs, and the body condition of the attending female. Relative to 1984, 1983 apparently was a poor year for pre-breeding food abundance and availability; hence, female body condition was depressed. Females in poor condition laid fewer, lower quality eggs which showed a sex ratio significantly skewed toward females. Egg size and mass decreased through the laying sequence. Male and female eggs did not differ in fresh weight. For both sexes, c-eggs were the lightest and produced the lightest chicks. Over the five year study period chick sex was related to egg sequence in complete clutches, with a-eggs being predominantly male (56%) and c-eggs being predominantly female (42% male). The five-year secondary sex ratio did not differ from unity. The ratio of unisexual to bisexual 3-egg clutches did not differ from 1:6:1 in either 1983 or 1984. These results suggest that sex determination in Ring-billed Gulls may occur randomly.
10.2307/1521686|Based on the composition of nestling regurgitations collected during 3 breeding seasons, fish were the most important prey group for Great Egrets (Ardea alba: N = 200 nest-day samples; aggregate percent biomass [APB] = 73.4%), Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula: N = 115; APB = 91.4%), and Tricolored Herons (E. tricolor: N = 68; APB = 97.3%). For Little Blue Herons (E. caerulea: N = 57), grass shrimp (Palaemonetes paludosus; APB = 39.7%) ranked higher in overall importance than all fishes combined (APB = 36.5%). Dietary overlap, as measured by Schoener's Similarity Index, was greatest between Snowy Egrets and Tricolored Herons (77%) and lowest between Tricolored Herons and Little Blue Herons (30%). Diet diversity, as measured by Shannon's Index, was highest for Great Egrets (2.04), intermediate for Snowy Egrets (1.71) and Tricolored Herons (1.68), and lowest for Little Blue Herons (1.60). Great Egrets ate a wider variety of fish species and sizes, especially larger fishes, and more crayfish than the other species. Little Blue Herons ate fewer fish and more grass shrimp and insects, and ate smaller forage fishes than Tricolored Herons but similar-sized fish as Snowy Egrets. The coarse-scale trophic composition of Snowy Egret and Tricolored Heron diets did not differ significantly, but Tricolored Herons ate larger forage fishes than Snowy Egrets. Pronounced interannual and intercolony variation in diet composition suggested that Great Egrets and Little Blue Herons switched prey types as hydrologic conditions and habitat availability changed. Conversely, lack of such variation suggested that Snowy Egrets and Tricolored Herons adjusted their foraging tactics to ensure continued encounters with preferred prey despite changing habitat conditions. These results are generally consistent with other published data, help confirm some generalizations about foraging strategies and patterns of niche differentiation among these ecologically similar species, and have implications for managing the Lake Okeechobee ecosystem.
10.2307/1521866|I observed a Yellow-footed Gull (Larus livens) capture an apparently healthy Black Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma melania) near a breeding colony of petrels in the Bay of La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mexico. The petrel was caught after it left the colony, approximately 75 m from shore, when it was forced to the water's surface by the gull, and apparently consumed. This represents the first report of a Yellow-footed Gull killing a storm-petrel, as well as the first record of larid predation on Black Storm-Petrels. It is unusual also, because the petrel was captured at sea, rather than directly on a breeding colony.
10.2307/1521399|We investigated the diet of the American White Pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) breeding on Bird Island, Pathfinder Reservoir, Wyoming, in 1986, 1988 and 1989, examining 584 regurgitations representing 11,717 prey items. Twenty-four prey species were found in the regurgitated boli. More than 90% of the numerical composition consisted of the Iowa darter (Etheostoma exile), crayfish (Orconectes spp.), tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum), fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas) and white sucker (Catostomus commersoni). Over 83% of the biomass consumed was composed of common carp (Cyprinus carpio), white suckers and tiger salamanders. We found year-to-year variation for numbers of fathead minnows, crayfish and tiger salamanders taken by white pelicans. Differences in numbers of white suckers, common carp, Iowa darters and tiger salamanders consumed by pelicans occurred within the breeding period during 1988. In 1989, we found within-breeding season differences in numbers of common carp and crayfish consumed by pelicans. Annual and nesting season dietary switches were more probably related to changes in food availability than to chick age-dependent prey selection. It appears that prey vulnerability primarily determined the composition of the white pelican diet at Pathfinder Reservoir. White pelicans mostly consumed the susceptible bottom-dwelling species in water less than 1 m deep or prey within 1 m of the surface of deep water.
10.2307/1521359| Within the Puget Sound, Washington, marine environment there are urban-industrial areas with a known variety of pollutants present, including PCB's and DDT/DDE. In 1984 we studied five species of waterbirds for effects of pollutants at urban-industrial sites and in more remote areas of western Washington. No significant thinning was observed in the eggs of Double-crested and Pelagic Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus and P. pelagicus), all taken in remote areas. The same was true of Pigeon Guillemot (Cepphus columba) eggs taken in Puget Sound. Significant average eggshell thinning (to 13%) was observed in eggs of Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) from heronries near agricultural areas. Samples from near urban-industrial areas showed less average thinning (5-7%). The generally low average concentrations of total DDT (0.35-2.22 g/g, wet weight) in heron eggs probably reflect local contamination from agricultural areas and wind drift from elsewhere. Highest average concentrations of PCBs in heron eggs were in those from Seattle (15.58 g/g) and Tacoma (5.46 g/g), the most industrially developed parts of Puget Sound. The largest average amounts of thinning (7-9%) in Glaucous-winged Gull (Larus glaucescens) eggs were for colonies in or near the urban-industrial areas of Puget Sound. Average shell thinning in eggs from the remote area colony was less (2%). Concentrations of total DDT in eggs (0.49-1.19 g/g) do not account for the amount of thinning observed. The levels of the contaminants and the degree of eggshell thinning observed in the study species are all currently below levels associated with reproductive impairment in other studies. There is no current or historical evidence of significant pollution related impairment of reproduction in the study species in western Washington. 
10.2307/1521409|A pole, extendable from 2 to 8 m, with a nylon-mesh collecting net, was used to retrieve eggs from nests of Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) in the canopy of floodplain forests. A total of 200 eggs was collected for contaminant analysis from ten colonies along the upper Mississippi River during the spring of 1993. Low egg breakage (1%) and acceptable survival of embryos in an incubator to pipping (55%) indicated that the device was useful.
10.2307/1520999|Seabirds in the saline marsh of coastal Louisiana nest on the islands that are more isolated, smaller, have lower percentages of woody vegetation, and higher percentages of herbaceous vegetation and beach habitat. Only moderate variation in these habitat features was demonstrated among years of colonization. The factors causing these preferences appear to be protection from mammalian predators and presence of suitable nesting habitat. Forster's Terns colonized islands with a lower beach percentage than those colonized by Laughing Gulls or Black Skimmers due to interspecific differences in preferred nesting substrate. Nest site tenacity was weak in that the majority (57%) of colonies was active during only one of the three years of survey. Extreme nest site tenacity is probably selected against in these highly unstable wetlands. However, those islands colonized perennially were more geographically isolated and had higher percentages of beach cover. The relationship between seabird nesting abundance and the habitat variables was low, implying a lack of fine tuning of population numbers to habitat at a local scale. Numerous islands potentially suitable for colonization by seabirds may exist along coastal Louisiana. But the presence of alternative nesting islands may be required due to the ever changing nature of these saline marsh wetlands.
10.2307/1521948| Collared Pratincoles feed mainly on insects captured in the air. Pratincole feeding habitat and food availability were studied in a mixed area of farmland and marshland in southwest Spain. Reeds and marshes were the most frequently used habitats, followed by cereal croplands. Other croplands were hardly used. Using sticky-traps and pit falls, invertebrates were captures at lower rates in croplands than in marshes and reeds. In cereal croplands pratincoles prey mainly upon two pest species, Aelia spp. and Eurygaster spp. Marshes and reeds are important for pratincoles for feeding. The water management policy carried out in the study area has destroyed most of these habitats. For the Collared Pratincole breeding population to survive in this area, no more natural habitat should be reclaimed and the fragments left need to be kept in good condition. Recovery of some areas is still possible at this stage. In the Donana National Park, lack of water in some years may result in a shortage of insects for pratincoles. Breeding is more consistent in agricultural areas outside the park where irrigation maintains insect numbers. However, breeding success is greatly reduced by tractor use in fields. /// Las cansasteras se alimentan principalmente en vuelo. Las zonas de alimentacin de la canastera, disponibilidad de alimento en las mismas y la dieta se estudiaron en un rea de marismas y cultivos en el suroeste de Espana. Los hbitats ms utilizados fueron carrizos y marismas, seguidos de cultivos de cereales. Otros cultivos apenas fueron utilizados. La disponibilidad de alimento se muestre con trampas pegajosas y de cada. El ndice de captura en cultivos fue invariablemente ms bajo que en carrizos y marismas. En los campos de cereales se alimentan principalmente de dos especies plagas en dichos cultivos: Aelia sp. y Eurygaster sp. Las zonas de marismas y carrizos son importantes para la alimentacin de la canastera. La poltica de desecacin Ilevada a cabo en el rea de estudio ha destrozado la mayora de estos hbitats. Es importante para la poblacin de canasteras que cra en este rea que no se transformen ms marismas y que las que quedan, se conserven en buen estado. Incluso la recuperacin de algunas zonas todava es posible. En el Parque Nacional de Doana la falta de agua puede provocar una escasez de insectos para la canastera en algunos aos. La cra es ms consistente en zonas de cultivo fuera del parque donde el agua de riego mantiene a la poblacin de insectos. Sin embargo, el xito reproductor en los campos de cultivo es muy reducido por el efecto de las actividades agricolas. 
10.2307/1521757|We integrated habitat information over a range of spatial scales for Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) nesting in Illinois, U.S.A, to identify key habitat factors associated with the location and size of nesting colonies. Availability of lacustrine and emergent wetland was the primary determinant of which regions Great Blue Herons established colonies. Within such regions, the herons located their colonies near local concentrations of wetland and centrally to regional wetland complexes. Herons settled among colonies in numbers proportional to the availability of foraging habitats near colony sites. Colonies were located at sites with more buffering habitat (forest, swamp, and open wetland) and lower road density, and within larger forest stands, than expected at random. Characteristics of vegetation used for nesting varied strikingly among nearby colonies. A hierarchical model of habitat selection may be useful for explaining distributional patterns of nesting Great Blue Herons.
10.2307/1521483|Observations of ten Red-billed Tropicbirds (Phaethon aethereus) engaging in courtship flights and landing on Isla Santa Catalina, Costa Rica, suggest the first known breeding location for Costa Rica.
10.2307/1521367| This study investigates sex differences in the distribution of foraging Brown Boobies (Sula leucogaster) near Clipperton Island in the eastern tropical Pacific. Females tended to forage farther from shore than males: eg., the sex ratio varied from strongly male-biased near the colony (within 20 km) to female-biased away from the colony (beyond 90 km). Males also returned to the colony earlier in the evening than females, again suggesting more proximate foraging locations in males. An hypothesis linking these foraging differences to sex role partitioning and sexual size dimorphism is proposed. Selection on females for increased chick provisioning may have lead to increased size and foraging range. Conversely, males are selected to remain close to the colony to maintain territories and prevent or acquire extra-pair copulations, thus reducing their foraging range and body size. 
10.2307/1521226|Divorce is widespread in the Laridae. The longevity of pair bonds have been reported in 12 of 89 species of Larid. In each a small but noteable proportion of pair bonds ends in divorce. In this paper we review the phenomenon of divorce in this family of birds. Asynchronous arrival of mates at the breeding colony appears to be a major cause of divorce as is the loss of nest site. The social factors associated with divorce include previous reproductive success of pairs, age and experience of the breeding partners, compatability of mates, and competition for mates. Young, unsuccessful breeders are most likely to divorce. Divorced birds often have lower reproductive success because of delayed laying dates and smaller clutch sizes with their new mates than continuing pairs, but their success is usually greater than their past breeding success or that of widowed birds. We suggest that the more breeding seasons an individual experiences, the higher the degree of mate retention.
10.2307/1521395| The Oriental Crested Ibis (Nipponia nippon) is one of the rarest birds in the world with a total population of less than 40 birds. The species, formerly found in the Russian Far East, Japan, North and South Korea and in northern and central China, has declined sharply because of changes in environment and the inability of the ibises to adapt to these changes. The remaining wild population is limited to Yangxian County, Shaanxi Province, central China. A captive breeding program may be an important part of a successful conservation effort. Captive breeding of the Crested Ibis has been attempted in China since 1986 when the Oriental Crested Ibis Breeding Center was established at the Beijing Zoo. In 1992, three chicks hatched, fledged and survived. These birds were still alive as of fall 1994. The three birds are the first Oriental Crested Ibis chicks successfully raised in captivity. This paper summarizes the status of laboratory research as well as captive breeding and status of the wild population. ///  (Nippoia nippon), , 40 (1993); , , .  ""  1986 , 1992 3, , 19933. , . 
10.2307/1521595|Although Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) in southern New Jersey nest in highly productive salt marshes, adults commonly forage at inland sites when they have young in the nest. Foods from these inland sites have much lower levels of salt than typical marine foods available near the breeding colonies. I hypothesized that Laughing Gulls optimize growth and survival of their offspring by selecting nestling diets that minimize the amount of salt intake. I investigated the role of dietary salt intake on growth of young by providing salt supplements to groups of nestlings in 2 experiments conducted in 1993 and 1994. Dietary salt supplements administered in 1993, but not in 1994, slowed nestling growth and resulted in lower final body weights, total head lengths, and exposed culmen lengths. Nestlings receiving lower salt supplements fared better. By feeding their chicks inland foods, adults may minimize osmotic stress for their young and thereby enhance their growth and survival.
10.2307/1521403|We studied the foraging success of adult and one-year-old Roseate (Sterna dougallii) and Sandwich (S. sandvicensis) Terns feeding in a tidal lagoon at Cayo Turrumote, Puerto Rico, in 1991, to examine age-related foraging differences between the two species. Since Sandwich Terns gain adult plumage around the end of their first calendar year, while Roseate Terns require up to three years, we predicted that at one year of age, Sandwich Terns would be closer to adult levels of foraging proficiency than Roseate Terns. One-year-old Sandwich Terns had a statistically equivalent capture success to that of adults, but Roseate Tern one-year-olds were not as proficient as adults at capturing fish. Adults of both species were statistically superior to one-year-olds in all other measures of foraging proficiency (capture attempt frequency, capture rate, relative energy expenditure). However, Sandwich Tern one-year-olds showed a larger proportional deficiency to adults than Roseate Terns in both prey capture rate and wing-beat rate per capture. Thus, only one aspect of our study supported our prediction. Our results suggest that young Sandwich Terns may develop skills in capturing and handling prey before prey locating abilities are perfected, while Roseate Terns may first learn to locate prey and then gradually improve capture and handling techniques.
10.2307/1521242|I report three attacks of Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), two successful, upon adult and post-fledging juvenile Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) near Pender Harbour in southwestern British Columbia, Canada. At feeding sites nearby, herons responded to eagles by fleeing or remaining vigilant. Both may cost the heron potential foraging time. I suggest predation on adult and post-fledging juvenile herons in temperate regions may be, or have been, more important than previously suspected.
10.2307/1521420|I studied nest survival of seven species of Ciconiiformes on a dredge-spoil island in South Carolina, USA. In 1984, about 24,450 pairs nested in the colony. By 1986, only 3,682 pairs remained, and the site was abandoned in 1987. White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) numbers declined rapidly, while heron populations were stable, or decreased slightly. In 1985 the total nest success (percentage of nests producing climb-out young) of herons (47%) did not differ from that reported from other mixed-species colonies in the Southeast. In 1986, the nest success of most species was lower than that reported for any other viable colony. Nest survival of White Ibises was significantly lower than that of most of the heron species throughout the three years, and in 1986, ibises produced no fledglings, while total nest success for all heron species was 18%. Most nest mortality was caused by Fish Crows (Corvus ossifragus) and large mammals. Interspecific differences in nest survival were correlated with differences in nest heights and nest stability, characteristics that probably reflect ease of access to predators. In most White Ibis-heron colonies, ibises have lower success than herons. Other than the higher mortality of White Ibis nests from drought and flooding, their low survival, compared to heron nests in the same colony, may be explained in part by different susceptibility to predation. Although most species were subjected to intense predation for two years, they did not abandon the colony immediately, and the lack of response of these populations appears to be related to (1) site tenacity of more successful, nuclear species and (2) the limited opportunities for information exchange in a large colony dispersed through a dense canopy.
10.2307/1521191|We surveyed all species of wading birds on two large ranches in the central bajo Ilanos region of Venezuela, between 21 and 28 February 1984. For each species, we noted numbers, feeding behavior and locations, and plumages. Special attention was given to seven species of ibis that regularly occur in the Ilanos. A total of 23 species of wading birds were detected, with only one, the Wood Stork (Mycteria americana), found to be nesting during the survey. The utilization of foraging habitat by the five most common species of ibis along a gradient from the higher, well-drained sites to the relatively deeply flooded sites occurred in the following order: Theristicus caudatus, Cercibis oxycerca, Mesembrinibis cayennensis, Phimosus infuscatus and Eudocimus ruber, respectively. Along this habitat gradient, the five ibis employed different but overlapping feeding behaviors.
10.2307/1521078|A spill of No. 6 diesel oil on the Cape Fear River in southeastern North Carolina in May 1982 resulted in the accidental contamination of Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) eggs at a nearby colony. Eggs in 24 of 98 nests were contaminated during the first half of the incubation period by oil transferred from the breast feathers of incubating adults. Average hatching success of oiled eggs was significantly less than for unoiled eggs. This field evaluation of the effects of an uncontrolled contamination of Brown Pelican eggs provides support for the findings of controlled experiments which indicate that a reduction of hatching success after contamination of eggs by oil early in incubation is to be expected.
10.2307/1521960| We analyzed the food composition of 47 regurgitations and 11 stomach contents from nestling Eurasian Spoonbills (Platalea leucorodia) in the colony of the estuary of the Odiel River (southwestern Spain). With a single exception, all prey consumed by nestlings were saltwater aquatic animals. Fish, particularly killifish (Fundulus spp.), were the most common and abundant component of the diet, accounting for 71% of the prey items. Prawns (Palaemonidae) appeared in half the food samples and accounted for 19% of the prey items. Relative abundance of potential prey at foraging habitats and in the diet suggests that fish were preferred over other prey types. The mean body length of the fish found in the food sample was greater than that at foraging habitats. /// Se describe la dieta de la Esptula (Platalea leucorodia) a partir del examen de 47 regurgitaciones y 11 contenidos estomacales de pollos procedentes del estuario del ro Odiel (Suroeste de Espaa). Salvo el Cangrejo Rojo (Procambarus clarkii), que fue encontrado en un estmago, todas las presas consumidas por los pollos fueron animales de agua salada. Los peces, y en particular el Samarugo (Fundulus spp.), fueron las presas mas comunes y abundantes en la dieta, representando el 71% de los animales ingeridos. Les siguen en importancia los camarones (Palaemonidae), que representan el 19% de las presas. La comparacin entre la abundancia relativa de presas potenciales en los hbitats donde se alimentan las esptulas y la encontrada en la dieta sugiere que las presas preferidas son los peces. La longitud media de los peces ingeridos por los pollos de esptulas fue mayor que la de los provenientes de nuestros muestreos del hbitat. 
10.2307/1521296| The settlement of a new wintering area in central Spain by the Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis was studied between 1981 and 1993 in terms of fluctuations in numbers, seasonal variation and age-class distributions. The wintering population had increased steadily since settlement in 1988, coinciding with the increased breeding populations in most parts of the cormorant's European range. The seasonal occurrence and the age distribution of cormorants varied among zones and seasons during the settlement. Initially, Great Cormorants were found primarily during migration passages; later they consolidated as an overwintering population. Large, deep gravel-pits were rapidly occupied while low quality or sub-optimal riverine sites were used later, coinciding with the increase of the wintering population. The age distribution of cormorants increased in percentage of adults. The increased proportion of adults was always greater in high quality sites. This suggests that the demographic distribution and the habitat use at our study area seems to result from an adjustment across seasons in which the more competitive individuals ultimately dominate in better sites. /// La colonizacin de un area nueva de invernada en Espaa central por el Cormoran Grande Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis se estudi entre 1981 y 1993 teniendo en cuenta las fluctuaciones numricas, las variaciones estacionales y la distribucin de las clases de edad. La poblacin invernante ha crecido continuamente desde la colonizacin en 1988, coincidiendo con el incremento de las poblaciones reproductoras europeas. La presencia estacional y la distribucin por edades de los cormoranes vari entre zonas y temporadas de invernada durante los primeros aos tras la colonizacin. Inicialmente los cormoranes utilizaron el rea durante el periodo migratorio y ms tarde la poblacin se consolid como invernante. Las extensas y profundas graveras en la provincia de Madrid fueron ocupadas rpidamente mientras que los rios fueron utilizados despus, coincidiendo con el incremento de la poblacin invernante. El porcentaje de adultos se increment progresivamente pero siempre fue mayor en el habitat considerado ms ptimo correspondiente a las graveras. Los resultados sugieren que la distribucin demogrfica y el uso del hbitat se deben a un ajuste entre temporadas, de forma que los individuos ms competitivos finalmente dominan en los lugares ms ptimos. 
10.2307/1521687| During the 1992 breeding season, sound levels were measured at 3 Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) colonies at Tommy Thompson Park, Toronto Outer Harbour, Ontario. Using an integrated sound level meter (Type 2225, Brel and Kjaer Canada, Ltd.), sound pressure levels were measured in dB(A), integrated over 1-minute intervals. To measure colony "background" levels (i.e., in the absence of human disturbance), a microphone was installed on a tripod inside the colony and meter read-outs were recorded outside the colony. To measure levels during human disturbance, a circuitous route was taken through the colony while holding the meter in hand. Background levels varied considerably and increased with colony size. Sound levels during disturbance varied very little and increased with colony size. The highest level during disturbance in the largest colony was 103.0 dB(A) and the lowest "background" level in the smallest colony was 59.5 dB(A). Potential impacts of the sound levels on human hearing are briefly discussed. 
10.2307/1521337|Foraging of seabirds in the Benguela upwelling ecosystem off southern Africa was examined to determine if species showed the same characteristics as those in a similar upwelling off Peru. In both areas, most foraging occurred in aggregations which varied in size and species composition in apparent response to size, depth, and duration of prey availability. Great variability and overlap in species composition occurred in aggregations in both ecosystems. I suggest that aggregations resulted from independent attraction to rich food sources, rather than from coevolution among species to exploit prey more efficiently.
10.2307/1521522|Aquaculture, the cultivation of finish and invertebrates in captivity, has grown exponentially in the past several decades, especially in North America. The increase in production in private (for sale) and public (enhancement/ranching and stocking out) aquaculture has given rise to conflicts between humans and predators such as birds. The changes in the nature and size of aquaculture operations and changes in predator distribution, abundance and behavior leads to the question: "Whose problem is it?". This paper describes the various kinds of aquaculture in North America and suggests actions for those sectors of society most involved in the problem.
10.2307/1521335|In two closely matched colonies of Tricolored Herons (Egretta tricolor) we found no differences in reproductive parameters of the one visited frequently (16 times) and the other visited infrequently (7 times). Visits to colonies were standardized and were initiated only after most of the herons had partially completed their clutches. These results suggest that limited colony visitations beginning after courtship and early egg-la-lying do not result in large disturbance effects. We caution, however, that these findings should not be applied without further testing, especially since the colonies we studied were relatively free of aerial and ground predators. We also found that letters marked on the sides of eggs were turned down by parental birds significantly more often than expected due to chance. We suggest researchers label eggs inconspicuously on the ends or not at all.
10.2307/1521600|Blood was analyzed from 151 pelagic marine birds to establish reference ranges for hematological and plasma biochemical parameters from healthy, wild populations of Pacific seabirds. Of the 13 species examined, 9 were from the Family Alcidae (N = 122 individuals) and the remainder (N = 29) from the Families Phalacrocoracidae, Laridae, and Procellariidae. Three of 8 hematological parameters (total white blood cell count, lymphocyte count and eosinophil count) differed significantly among species, as did 9 of 13 plasma biochemical parameters (alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, creatine kinase, cholesterol, glucose, lactate dehydrogenase, total bilirubin, total protein and field total protein). There were no differences among species for packed cell volume, buffy coat, cell counts of heterophils, monocytes and basophils, or for concentrations of alanine aminotransferase, triglycerides, uric acid and calcium. Plasma calcium concentration, triglyceride levels and field total protein varied significantly between sexes, with females having higher mean concentrations of all 3 parameters. However, no significant relationships between measures of breeding condition (brood patch size, subcutaneous and mesenteric fat deposits, or ovarian follicle size and ovary weight) and calcium or alkaline phosphatase concentrations in female birds could be identified. Alanine aminotransferase and uric acid were the only analytes which did not differ significantly between species or sexes.
10.2307/1521240| We have recorded 40 mixed pairs and observed 14 mixed copulations between Scarlet and White Ibises in the Venezuelan Llanos. Considering the largely separate distributional ranges of both birds, we propose that this bird is a single species composed of two subspecies: Eudocimus ruber ruber and E. ruber albus. A hybrid zone exists in Colombia and Venezuela, which time separates and connects the populations of White Ibis (North and Central America) and the Scarlet Ibis (Guianas and Brazil). In Venezuelan Llanos the White Ibis population accounts for less than 10% of the total of the two forms. /// Hasta la fecha se han registrado 40 parejas mixtas y observado 14 cpulas mixtas entre el Corocoro Rojo y Blanco en los Llanos de Venezuela. Considerando la distribucin ampliamente separada de ambos corocoros, se propone la denominacin de una sla especie dividida en dos subespecies: Eudocimus ruber ruber y E. ruber albus, con una zona hbrida (Colombia y Venezuela) que al mismo tiempo separa y conecta la poblacin de Corocoro Blanco (Norteamrica y Centroamrica) y de Corocoro Rojo (Guyanas y Brasil). En los Llanos de Venezuela el Corocoro Blanco no llega al 10% de la poblacin total de corocoros. 
10.2307/1520979|Only a single instance of kleptoparasitism has been reported previously for American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos). During a period of approximately one month of intensive observations at a well-used foraging site, we observed 36 instances of interspecific kleptoparasitism by this species, mainly against gulls. Foraging pelicans also parasitized conspecifics, and were successful in 12 of 32 attempts. The first pelican to arrive in the vicinity of a host was more often successful than were subsequent joiners. Pelicans approached a conspecific host as soon as it began to dip for prey. When the potential host was unsuccessful in obtaining prey, the approaching pelican(s) remained in the area and took part in coordinated flock searching. The integration of parasitic and possibly cooperative behaviors in this context appears to maximize potential gains and reduce costs to the would-be kleptoparasite.
10.2307/1521281|A Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) heronry studied between 1979-84 was located in the remains of a mixed mesophytic woodland destroyed when Knox Lake was created in 1955. Adults arrived at the heronry between mid-February and mid-March and eggs were laid in late March and April, rarely into mid-July. The number of fledged young per nest ranged from 2.42 (36 nests) in 1979 to 3.3 (27 nests) in 1982, but total yearly productivity declined from 87 young fledged to 38 young during this time, primarily due to loss of trees and thus potential nest sites.
10.2307/1521645|We investigated population fluctuations and distribution, colony size, and continuity of colony occupation of the Great Egret (Casmerodius albus) and Purple Heron (Ardea purpurea) in relation to various ecological factors in the reed belt of the Neusiedler See, Austria. In two cases, the increasing egret population (737 nesting pairs in 1997) showed a decline in the second year after a drop in the water level of the lake. Population increases of this species resulted in an increase in colony size in all parts of the reed belt, but not in the colonization of new areas. A stepwise multiple regression indicates that, in both species, colony size was not related to water depth at the colony site, but was correlated positively with the width of the reed belt.
10.2307/1521402|Two dead Aleutian Terns (Sterna aleutica) were found dead along river otter (Lutra canadensis) trails in a colony on an island in Sitkalidak Strait, Kodiak Island, Alaska. A review of the literature suggests river otter predation on seabirds in the northeastern Pacific is widespread and that "surplus killing" of more prey than can be consumed is a frequent aspect of such predation; however, seabird colonies appear to persist despite such pressures.
10.2307/1521458|In October and November 1991, more than 14,500 Cape Cormorants (Phalacrocorax capensis) in adult plumage died at eight islands off western South Africa. The overall observed mortality was 8% of the breeding population at these islands. At Dassen Island, where the highest mortality occurred, it was 16% of the breeding population. Mortality resulted from avian cholera (Pasteurella multocida), which also killed smaller numbers of African Penguins (Spheniscus demersus), Kelp Gulls (Larus dominicanus), Sacred Ibis (Threskiornis aethiopicus) and probably other waterbirds.
10.2307/1521178|Incoloy bands placed on Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) were recovered after 7-11 years' wear. The average rate of weight loss was only 0.25%/yr. It is very unlikely that any of these bands will be lost or become illegible, even if carried for the maximum projected lifetime of a Common Tern.
10.2307/1521478| This paper describes changes in numbers and distribution of Northern Gannets (Morus bassanus) on Rouzic Island from the colony's formation in 1939 to 1994. Rouzic is the only French gannetry and is currently the most southerly breeding location for the species. Population size and distribution were assessed by using land-based field counts, photographs taken from the sea and aerial photographs. Since its foundation, the colony has shown three periods of increase with average annual rates of increase of 28.1% (1947-65), 5.0% (1967-79) and 8.4% (1981-94). A Leslie simulation model indicates that, at least during the first and third periods, these increases were likely to have been sustained by net immigration of Northern Gannets to Rouzic. Compared to other gannetries of a similar age and size, Rouzic currently shows a high rate of population increase. In 1994, the colony held about 11,500 pairs and about 2,000 non breeders. At present, colony size is not limited by the availability of nesting habitat, but Northern Gannets will soon colonize the area occupied by the few Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica) and Manx Shearwaters (Puffinus puffinus) still breeding on Rouzic. While this may cause the extinction of the Atlantic Puffin colony, there is no evidence that Northern Gannets have been responsible for the long term decline in Atlantic Puffin numbers. /// Nous dcrivons dans cet article l'volution de la colonie de Fous de Bassan (Morus bassanus) de l'le Rouzic depuis sa fondation en 1939 jusqu'en 1994. Rouzic est la seule colonie franaise et la plus mridionale de l'aire de reproduction de l'espce. Les recensements annuels reposent sur l'emploi de photographies qui furent prises dans les premiers temps  terre, puis en bateau et actuellement en avion. Depuis sa fondation, la colonie a prsent trois priodes de croissance avec un taux d'accroissement moyen annuel de: 28.1% (1947-65), 5.0% (1967-79) and 8.4% (1981-94). Nous avons simul un accroissement de la colonie en utilisant le modle de Leslie. Ainsi, durant la premire et troisime priode, les taux d'accroissement, forts levs compars  des colonies similaires, rsulteraient d'une immigration de Fous de Bassan sur Rouzic. En 1994, la colonie comptait 11 500 couples et 2 000 oiseaux non nicheurs. Actuellement l'expansion de la colonie n'est pas limite par l'espace disponible. Mais cette expansion menace la colonie de Macareux moines (Fratercula arctica) et de Puffins des Anglais (Puffinus puffinus). Bien que la menace soit relle  plus ou moins long terme, on ne peut imputer aux Fous de Bassan la responsabilit du dclin qu'ont subi les Macareux moines dans le pass. 
10.2307/1521364| The Peruvian Diving Petrel, Pelecanoides garnotii, is an endemic seabird of the Humboldt Current. A drastic population decline and loss of breeding sites has been observed in recent decades. In Peru, the breeding population was estimated recently at 1,500 individuals; in Chile, the current status is unknown. The present study renders an account of the breeding colony at Chaaral Island, the largest one known in Chile. Low numbers of sightings of these divers in the sea adjacent to the island were also reported from transect counts. 
10.2307/1521041|Several species of heron were breeding on Bermuda at the time of human settlement in 1612 but were extirpated soon afterwards. Although still common as transients none have recolonized spontaneously. An experimental attempt was made to reestablish a breeding population of the Yellow-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax violacea) by transplanting 46 nestlings to Bermuda from the Alafia Banks heronry in Tampa Bay, Florida over a three year period, 1976-78 and rearing them for release to the wild on a diet of Land Crabs (Gecarcinus lateralis). The project was funded by the Bermuda Government because the abundant land crab is regarded as a pest on Bermuda and it was hoped that this crustacean-eating heron would serve as a biological control. A majority of the transplanted nestlings survived and remained in residence. Successful breeding was confirmed in 1980 and the population may now be self-sustaining, although a shortage of secluded breeding sites could be a limiting factor. Examination of regurgitated pellets has confirmed that land crabs comprise approximately 95% of the diet, even in winter, and a reduction of crab holes has occurred on lawns and pathways in areas where the birds feed regularly.
10.2307/1521739| Peruvian Diving-petrel (Pelecanoides garnotii) populations were surveyed at the species' main breeding areas and on islands where former colonies were known to exist. Nesting was found only on San Gallan and La Vieja islands on the central coast of Peru. For both islands, a minimum of 12,216 breeding pairs and a maximum of 13,270 pairs were estimated. San Gallan and La Vieja are within the Paracas National Reserve, but human activities on these islands could endanger the population because of unrestricted access to the colonies. /// Se evaluaron las poblaciones de potoyunco peruano (Pelecanoides garnotii) en las principales reas de anidacin y en las islas donde se conoce existieron colonias antiguamente. Las reas de anidacin se encontraron slo enlas islas San Gallan y La Vieja, en la costa central del Peru: En ambas islas se estima habitan un mnimo de 12,216 parejas reproductivas y un mximo de 13,270 parejas. San Gallan y La Vieja se encuentran incluidas en la Reserva Nacional De Paracas, sin embargo la actividad humana en estas islas puede poner en riesgo la poblacin debido a que no existe control sobre el acceso a las colonias. 
10.2307/1521151|About 75 pairs of Gray-backed Terns (Sterna lunata) nested on Guguan in the Northern Mariana Islands in 1979. This locality represents a breeding range extension of about 2000 km to the west of the westernmost previously known colony. The species is also reported for the first time from Uracas, northernmost of the Northern Mariana Islands, where it may also breed.
10.2307/1521079|We documented colony sites used by Pelagic Cormorants (Phalacrocorax pelagicus) in Barkley Sound, British Columbia, from 1979 through 1982. This information supplements earlier records of colony-site use dating back to 1947, thus permitting long-term trends in site use and colony size to be identified. About 72% of the 29 colony sites we examined were in caves while the rest were located on exposed cliffs. Cave sites predominated because caves were locally abundant while cliff faces were in short supply. Most sites were not used each year. We suggest that individuals in some localities changed sites between years and, in some cases, within years. Most colonies in Barkley Sound contained fewer than 30 nests, whereas colonies containing up to several thousands of breeding pairs have been recorded elsewhere. Small colonies apparently resulted from the presence of few suitable nest sites at each colony. We make suggestions for censusing colonies of Pelagic Cormorants in light of the different habitats in which the colonies occur and the apparently dynamic use of the colony sites within and between years.
10.2307/1521381|We documented the use of two wastewater treatment wetlands (secondarily treated urban sewage) in central Florida by wintering and breeding long-legged wading birds (Ciconiiformes), and compared densities of birds at these sites to a large, naturally fluctuating wetland nearby. Winter densities at all three sites in central Florida were much higher than at other natural wetlands in southern Florida and Nicaragua. White and Glossy Ibises (Eudocimus albus and Plegadis falcinellus) were much more common at the natural site in central Florida than at the wastewater sites, presumably because water depths at the latter sites were too deep for foraging. Densities of ardeids were not notably different among the sites. Breeding colonies of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana), Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) and Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus) formed at both wastewater sites during the study, probably because water conditions were stable. Great and Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) that we followed from these colonies often foraged in the wastewater impoundments, but Wood Storks and White Ibises followed from wastewater and nearby colonies rarely did. These wastewater impoundments appeared to offer attractive feeding conditions to ardeids, but not to ibises or storks, and appear to have high value as colony sites. We outline a number of potential health risks for wading birds using these wetlands.
10.2307/1521770| Procellariiformes is the only order of birds in which every species lays only a single egg. Although there is circumstantial evidence of occasional re-laying in petrels, currently Procellariiformes are considered unable to lay replacement clutches. This paper reports 4 cases of presumed re-laying (3 of these well documented) in the British Storm-petrel (Hydrobates pelagicus), the time elapsed between the laying of their first egg and the second egg and their breeding success. The evidence of occasional re-laying suggests this species can produce 2 eggs within the same breeding season. /// Las Procelariformes son el nico orden de aves en el que todas las especies ponen nicamente un huevo. Aunque existe evidencia circunstancial de que los paos ocasionalmente reponen su huevo, en la actualidad las procelariformes son consideradas a veces como incapaces de realizar puestas de reposicin. Este trabajo muestra 4 casos (3 de ellos bien documentados) de aparentes reposiciones en el Pao Europeo (Hydrobates pelagicus), el tiempo transcurrido entre la puesta del primer huevo y el segundo, y el xito reproductor. Esta evidencia de reposiciones de puesta ocasionales sugiere una cierta habilidad en esta especie en producir dos huevos en la misma estacin reproductora. 
10.2307/1521592|Regression analysis was used to test for associations between annual variation in the number of Cattle Egret nests and mean brood sizes and 15 independent variables. Over 10 years, nest numbers varied between 1,449 and 6,323 per year but were not associated with any variable. Chick survival and mean brood sizes differed significantly among years. The Acrididae (grasshoppers and locusts) were the main prey in 8 of the years and Gryllidae (crickets) and Reptilia in the other 2. The proportion (by weight) of Acrididae in the chick's diet may predict egret breeding success, as this tended to be greater in years with lower chick mortality and larger advanced broods. Annual differences in sizes of advanced broods appear to be influenced by chick starvation, but not by the sizes of early broods nor the burden of ectoparasites that season. The associations of variables observed in this and other studies support a model in which spring rainfall acts through pasture growth and growth of Acrididae populations to produce annual differences in chick survival and therefore in the egret's breeding success.
10.2307/1521578|Resting and foraging Ciconiiformes along the shore of Cumberland Sound, Georgia, were less likely to respond to experimental small boat runs than Ciconiiformes in tidal creeks. Of groups of wading birds encountered on two routes along the wide channel adjoining the shore of the Sound, 15 of 99 groups (15.2%), and 44 of 129 groups (34.1%) altered their behavior or flushed in response to the boat. Along two narrower tidal creek routes with dense Spartina alterniflora, 148 of 201 groups (73.6%) and 114 of 137 groups (83.2%) responded. Birds in trees or on docks flushed less frequently than birds in the water, on the shore or in Spartina. Eighty-four of 195 groups (43.1%) of Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) responded to the boat when in the water, along the shore or in Spartina. In comparison 82 of 132 groups (62.1%) of Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus), six of seven groups (85.7%) of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana), and 40 of 43 groups (93.0%) of White Ibises responded. Birds disturbed in the tidal creeks were more likely to leave the site where they encountered the boat and flew further than birds disturbed on the sound. On average, the boat was closer to the bank in the creeks, but birds in creeks were also more sensitive to the presence of the boat than birds on the sound shore. The data imply Ciconiiformes may experience more difficulty habituating to boat traffic in some habitats than in others.
10.2307/1521657|The diet and potential impact of wintering Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) on sport fishing were studied during the winters of 1995-96 and 1996-97 at Lake Beulah, Bolivar County, Mississippi, an oxbow lake of the Mississippi River and during the spring of 1997 at Lake Eufaula, a large manmade reservoir on the border of Alabama and Georgia. The diet was determined from analysis of intact fish and otoliths found in the stomachs of 142 cormorants collected at Lake Beulah and 51 cormorants collected at Lake Eufaula. Consistent with previous studies, the diet at both sites consisted primarily of shad (Dorosoma spp.) and sunfishes (Lepomis spp.), but also included catfish (Ictalurus spp.). The catfish in the diet from both areas were most likely taken from nearby catfish ponds. The size of intact fish in the diet averaged 111 mm, but varied with fish species. For the most part, cormorants appeared to consume the fish species most available. However, based on fish availability data from Lake Beulah, cormorants appeared to have a preference for sunfishes, particularly bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus). From cormorant bioenergetic projections of bluegill consumed in 1996-97 and the estimated range of bluegill available, cormorants consumed only a small percentage of the bluegill available at Lake Beulah. With the possible exception of their predation on harvestable size bluegill, burgeoning cormorant populations do not appear to have an appreciable negative impact on southern sport fisheries.
10.2307/1521429| Habitat features were measured at 128 nest sites of Great Crested Grebes (Podiceps cristatus) on Lake uknajno, northeast Poland in 1984. Eggs from 77 complete clutches were measured. Colonial and noncolonial birds were distinguished and considered separately. First eggs appeared earlier in colonial nests. Colonial nests were situated in lower densities of vegetation than were noncolonial nests. In three of four colonies, nests were situated closer to open water than were noncolonial nests. Clutches of colonial birds were larger than those of noncolonial birds. Over the breeding season, the mean clutch size and the total clutch volume increased for colonial birds, but decreased for noncolonial birds. Biometric data were different for birds nesting in different habitats. Eggs were more elongated at sites closer to open water. Factors accounting for these differences are discussed. 
10.2307/1521905|In California's Sacramento Valley, the potential value of rice fields as habitat for waterbirds may vary with harvest method, post-harvest treatment of rice straw (chopped, burned, plowed), and extent of flooding. Recent changes in rice harvesting methods (i.e., use of stripper-headers) and a legislative mandate to decrease burning of rice straw after harvest may alter habitat availability and use. Thus, we investigated species richness and community composition of nonbreeding waterbirds during October-March 1993-94 and 1994-95 in rice fields of the northern Sacramento Valley. Most (85-91% of land area) rice was conventionally harvested (i.e., cutter bar), and the remainder was stripped. Rice straw was left untreated in more than half of fields (52% in 1994 and 54% in 1995), especially in stripped fields (56-70%). In fields where farmers treated straw, the most common management methods were plowing (15-21%), burning (19-24%), and chopping (3-5%). Fields became increasingly wet from October through March as seasonal precipitation accumulated and farmers flooded fields to facilitate straw decomposition and provide habitat for ducks. Species richness of waterbirds was greater (P < 0.002) in conventionally-harvested fields than in stripped fields; within harvest methods, species richness was consistently greater (P < 0.01) in flooded than non-flooded fields. By contrast, species richness did not differ among straw treatments (P > 0.23). Species richness in stripped fields probably was low because foraging opportunities were limited by tall dense straw, decreased grain density, and infrequent flooding. We recommend that land managers wishing to provide habitat for a diverse waterbird community harvest rice using conventional methods and flood fields shallowly.
10.2307/1521688|The behavioral ecology of Black-headed Gulls Larus ridibundus kleptoparasitizing terns on Coquet Island, Northumberland, was investigated between 1992 and 1994. Black-headed Gulls demonstrated behavioral adaptations that probably optimized returns for energy invested in chases. Gulls selectively attacked terns carrying larger fish, probably because the energetic content of a fish increases exponentially with length. They also selected terns carrying more than 1 fish, as the success rate was higher. Sandwich Terns Sterna sandvicensis were selected preferentially to Common Terns Sterna hirundo, which were selected more frequently than Arctic Terns Sterna paradisaea. This selection was independent of fish size; there was no difference in success rate between species. Host species selection may be due to the relative proximity of the different tern colonies to the gull colony. The number of swoops made during an attack was associated with a decrease in the likelihood of success: most gulls made only a single attack on a host. Black-headed Gulls often attacked in groups. Larger group size was associated with increased success, although the estimated average energy return for each gull was lower than for gulls foraging individually. By joining in chases initiated by another, gulls may reduce costs of chasing and be in a better position than the initiator of the chase to collect the food once it is dropped.
10.2307/1521508|The interaction between foraging success and aggression in adult Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus) was studied in a Texas salt marsh. Foraging egrets were divided into three nearest neighbor distance categories: (1) 1-15 m, (2) 15-30 m, and (3) 30+ m. Birds feeding solitarily (30+ m) chased conspecifics more often and for greater distances than did those feeding in groups (1-15 m). Birds with relatively poor prey capture success chased conspecifics more often. Egrets feeding in groups had higher strike rates, capture rates, and capture success than did those feeding solitarily. However, overall prey intake rates (g/min) were similar for egrets in the two foraging modes, largely as a result of the larger size of fish captured by solitary foragers. Nonetheless, foraging in flocks may be more energetically efficient for egrets as the energy expended in chasing conspecifics is likely much lower than for birds feeding on a defended territory.
10.2307/1521451| This paper presents the results of a 19-year (1969-1987) aerial survey of flamingos carried out in Mar Chiquita, an extensive salt lake of more than 2,000 km<sup>2</sup> located in central Argentina. The Chilean Flamingo (Phoenicopterus chilensis) was the more abundant species, reaching a peak of 66,366 birds counted in February 1975. Breeding was recorded in several years, with a maximum productivity of 29,227 young in 1977. The Andean Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus andinus) is a winter visitor with a population of around 1000 birds. A few James Flamingos (Phoenicoparrus jamesi) were detected. Breeding ceased after 1977 because of the flooding of all breeding habitats, and the adult population decreased sharply. Although flamingos are not seriously endangered at present, I detected several potential threats, including illegal capture for zoos, tourism development, and water pollution. The unpredictable nature of the salt lakes environment and the adaptations developed by the flamingos require long-term research. Habitat preservation is needed at the regional level to ensure the existence of alternative sites for feeding and breeding under varying water level-rainfall conditions. /// Las poblaciones de flamencos de la laguna Mar Chiquita, un gran lago salado de ms de 2000 km<sup>2</sup> ubicado en el centro de Argentina, fueron censadas por avin a lo largo de diecinueve aos (1969-1987). El flamenco chileno (Phoenicopterus chilensis) es la especie mas abundante, la cual alcanz un pico de 66366 individuos en febrero de 1975. Se detect cra en varios aos, con una produccin mxima de 29277 juveniles en 1977. El flamenco andino (Phoenicoparrus andinus) es un visitante invernal con una poblacin en el orden de 1000 aves. Unos pocos ejemplares del flamenco de James fueron observados. Despus de 1977 la cria se interrumpi debido a que todos los ambientes adecuados para nidificacin fueron inundados, mientras que la poblacin de adultos decreci marcadamente. Aunque en la actualidad los flamencos no estan seriamente amenazados, se han detectado varios riesgos potenciales, incluyendo la captura ilegal para zoolgicos, el desarrollo turstico y la contaminacin. La naturaleza impredecible del medio en los lagos salados y las adaptaciones desarrolladas por los flamencos hacen necesario realizar investigaciones a largo plazo. Se necesita adems preservar el habitat a nivel regional para asegurar la existencia de sitios alternativos de alimentacin y reproduccin bajo condiciones cambiantes en el rgimen de Iluvias. 
10.2307/1521206|I have compared resource use in a guild of herons using several habitats of rice fields, river, canals, and marsh, surrounding three heronries in northwestern Italy. All five species exploited rice fields. On the other hand, in nonagricultural biotopes the Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) segregated spatially from Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta), possibly because of interference competition with the more dominant egrets, and the Purple Herons (Ardea purpurea) segregated from the Grey Herons (Ardea cinerea). The microhabitats used by each species were very similar in rice fields, whereas on the river their feeding sites differed. Prey overlap was high in nonagricultural habitats between Black-crowned Night-Herons and Little Egrets, and was slightly higher in rice fields among all species. The herons used similar feeding techniques in all habitats. In nonagricultural habitats, the spatial segregation and the existence of aggressive interactions suggest competitively induced segregation, especially between night herons and Little Egrets and between Grey Herons and Purple Herons. High niche overlap can be maintained in rice fields because food is temporarily superabundant. A higher niche overlap in agricultural habitats than in nonagricultural habitats may be a general pattern for birds. Foraging herons apparently can easily adapt their foraging behavior to meet local situations.
10.2307/1521618|This paper summarizes a symposium on the status, biology and management of the Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) in North America, with 1 summary paper from Europe. Most studies of the Black Tern have been conducted on its breeding grounds in freshwater marshes of western Europe or eastern North America. The species is a more numerous breeder, however, in other parts of Europe and North America and spends much of the year on salt water in the tropics. Although the Black Tern does not appear to be critically endangered in the USA or Canada, its numbers have declined considerably during the second half of the twentieth century (especially in the 1960s and 1970s), and its status is now precarious in many parts of eastern North America. Much more information on population trends, breeding success, foraging, behavioral ecology, and metapopulation dynamics will be needed for effective management. Studies already conducted in Europe provide good examples of what might be achieved in North America.
10.2307/1521911|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) are normally considered a diurnal species. Here we describe cormorants foraging nocturnally in an oxbow lake in Mississippi. We have observed this behavior only once during 30 capture attempts over seven years.
10.2307/1520997| Gray Gull (Larus modestus) populations near Antofagasta, Chile (23 41 S. Lat.) did not reproduce during 1982-1983 and 1983-1984 breeding seasons and initiated reproduction later than normal in 1984-1985, as a consequence of the August 1982-April 1983 El Nio-Southern Oscillation. Our data and observations show suppressive and delaying effects on gonadal and lipid, and molting cycles, respectively, during the 1982-1984 decline in anchovy populations in the coastal waters. Behavioral observations, population censuses and nest site visitations show that normal courtship behavior, mating, recruitment or nesting did not occur during the 1982-1983 and 1983-1984 breeding seasons. Reproduction, based on clutch size and recruitment of fledglings from 1984-85 through 1985-86-87 appears to reflect increasing anchovy populations post El Nio Oscillation. /// Las poblaciones de Garuma (Larus modestus) que habitan cerca de Antofagasta, Chile (23 41 S. Lat.) no se reprodujeron durante las estaciones reproductivas de 1982-83 y 1983-84. En 1984-85 la reproduccin se inici tardamente, como consecuencia del Fenmeno El Nio 1982-83. Nuestros datos y observaciones muestran efectos supresivos y retardantes en los ciclos gonadales, lipdicos y de mudas del plumaje, respectivamente, durante la reduccin de la abundancia de anchoas frente a las costas entre 1982 y 1984. Observaciones sobre conducta, censos poblacionales y visitas a los sitios de nidificacin, muestran que durante las estaciones reproductivas de 1982-83 y 1983-84 las aves no desarrollaron conductas de cortejo y apareamiento, no hubo reclutamiento y tampoco nidificaron. Segn los datos de tamans de nidada y reclutamiento obtenidos durante 1984-85 y 1985-86-87, parace ser que los valores variaron segn el incremento poblacional de anchoveta occurrido posterior al Fenmeno El Nio. 
10.2307/1521174|The structure of a Herring Gull (Larus argentatus) colony off Hanko, southwestern-Finland, was studied in 1983-86. Breeders were grouped into early, peak and late layers. Center nests had more neighbors than edge nests. Nearest- and second-nearest neighbor distances were also smaller for center nests in most cases. Center and edge territories were evenly distributed between early, peak and late layers in all years. There was no consistent pattern with respect to number of neighbors, and distances to nearest- and second-nearest neighbors among the laying groups. I suggest that individual pairs are unable to predict their neighbors when at least some asynchrony occurs, and that it may be impossible to optimize territory acquisition by early breeding. The possible mechanism enabling late breeders to obtain center territories is decreasing levels of aggression in earlier breeders already incubating.
10.2307/1521432|Endangered Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) and threatened Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus) nest at commercial sand and gravel mining operations (sand pits) along the Platte River system in Nebraska. Sandbar habitat has been disappearing since the early 1900's along the Platte River system, but numbers of sand pits have increased. We hypothesized that birds would more fully utilize sand pits where suitable sandbar habitat was limited. We inventoried sand pits and censused terns and plovers on both habitats along the Loup River, part of the North Loup River, and most of the Platte River during 1988-1991. Using aircraft, we also quantified features of suitable sand pits present on the central Platte in 1988 and lower Platte in 1990, and related features to abundance and presence of birds. We found 225 sand pits of which 78 were suitable and 187 were unsuitable for nesting. Along the central Platte, where sandbar habitat is severely degraded, birds nested at 81% of the suitable sand pits (N = 32) at least once during 1988-1991, and most birds (61-94%) nested on sand pits. Along the lower Platte, where both sandbar and sand pit habitat are plentiful, birds nested at 60% of the suitable sand pits (N = 35) at least once during 1988-1991, and most birds (60-86%) nested on sandbars. Numbers of terns and plovers were more weakly correlated with features of sand pits on the central Platte than on the lower Platte. Least Terns and Piping Plovers seem to use more of the suitable sand pit habitat on the central Platte than on the lower Platte. Sand pits probably have influenced the birds' distribution by providing alternative nesting habitat along rivers where suitable sandbars are rare or absent.
10.2307/1521550|The attendance of Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba) at three colonies in Skidegate Inlet, Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia was investigated according to time of day and tide level during May - June 1990 and 1991. Guillemot attendance in all three colonies was correlated most strongly with tide height, but also with time after sunrise and tide direction. An analysis of colony attendance on Mandarte Island, British Columbia, however, found time after sunrise to be the only significant factor influencing attendance. The maximal tide range at Skidegate Inlet, 7.8 m, compared to only 3.8 m at Mandarte Island, was likely responsible for the patterns observed. The optimal time to determine nesting populations of Pigeon Guillemots is at high tide in the morning.
10.2307/1521091|The breeding of Common (Sterna hirundo) and Little Tern (S. albifrons) is unevenly distributed along 515 km of the floodplain of the Po River. We studied the distributional pattern in relation to some structural and hydrological variables of the river. The non-linear increase of colony size at higher population densities suggested the existence of an optimum colony size of about 30 nests and a maximum size of 40, on average. The reaches of the river with higher frequencies of terns showed less variability from year to year in the number of nests and were more regularly occupied than the reaches with lower frequencies. Seventy-one per cent of the spatial variability in breeding frequency was explained by structural characteristics of the river-bed, affecting the abundance of shallow waters suitable for foraging and the availability of islands suitable for safe nesting sites. The scattered information on the determinants of bird distribution in aquatic (non-pelagic) habitats suggest that structural characteristics, particularly water depth and shore complexity, are the determining factors for various species.
10.2307/1521308|The anti-predator benefits of coloniality in ardeids are often discounted because herons seem to exhibit few anti-predator behaviors, such as mobbing, and because predation is not often observed. Herons, however, may not mob predators because it is ineffective and/or dangerous. Furthermore, the benefits of coloniality need not be directed solely toward eggs or young, as is often implied; enhancing adult survival, for which early warning may be beneficial, is sufficient. Coloniality in herons may also minimize the impact of territorial predators. Where large raptors occur, their depredations on herons are sometimes severe, but recent declines in raptor numbers may cause observers to underestimate the evolutionary significance of predation. The largest ardeids, which would be least vulnerable to avian predators, tend to nest solitarily, which is consistent with an anti-predator function of ardeid coloniality. Anti-predator or food-finding benefits need not increase with colony size, as implied in tests of anti-predator hypotheses; individuals need only do better living in a group than living solitarily.
10.2307/1521544| Cormorants are protected and managed under provincial, not federal, law in Canada. The recent resurgence of Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) numbers, particularly in central and eastern Canada, has led to pressures for control to which provinces have responded in different ways. In Manitoba, with the largest numbers, fishermen are illegally killing thousands of birds. Ontario protects cormorants and views them as indicators of chemical pollution in the Great Lakes. Qubec is regulating a cull of breeding birds to protect island habitat. New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island have hunting seasons. Nova Scotia and Newfoundland give kill permits to individual fishermen. The federal government does research on cormorants, particularly to understand the effects of toxic chemicals on them. 
10.2307/1521430| The nesting biology, diet, and mortality of Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba) and the effects of predation on them was investigated in Skidegate Inlet in the Queen Charlotte Islands. Their nesting population was estimated at 1000 - 1100 pairs. Pigeon Guillemots were first seen on their colonies on April 12; their mean laying and hatching dates fell on June 14  12.3 and July 14  11.5, respectively, and fledging peaked in the last week of August in 1991. The average clutch size was 1.58  0.30 eggs; egg length and volume increased over the season. The reproductive success of Pigeon Guillemots in Skidegate Inlet was low (0.41 fledglings/pair) compared to other regions, due largely to predation. Major predators were Northwestern Crows (Corvus caurinus) and raccoons (Procyon lotor), an introduced species. Food shortage could also have been a factor in the low success, as younger chicks in two-chick broods had significantly lower weights and higher mortality than older siblings and single-raised chicks. Food brought to Pigeon Guillemot chicks consisted of epibenthic fishes, mostly gunnels (Pholidae) and pricklebacks (Stichaeidae). It is recommended that Pigeon Guillemot attendance at colonies in the Queen Charlotte Islands be monitored and the effects of raccoon predation on their reproductive success be further investigated. 
10.2307/1521462| Various techniques have been proposed for limiting the impact of fish-eating birds on fish farms. Ecological solutions include those that attempt to reduce the encounter rate of predators with prey of commercial value. One way to reduce a predator's visual detection of prey is to increase pond turbidity. Results are presented from an experiment investigating the decrease in foraging efficiency of fish-eating birds with increased turbidity in a controlled situation. Prey capture rates of Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) were significantly reduced by turbidity. Although a promising method, managing turbidity might be limited by several factors such as the type of commercial fish raised in farm ponds. /// Diverses techniques ont t proposes pour rduire l'impact des oiseaux piscivores sur les piscicultures. Les solutions dites cologiques tendent  rduire le taux de rencontre des prdateurs avec leurs proies. Une manire de rduire la dtection visuelle des proies par les prdateurs est d'augmenter la turbidit dans les bassins d'levage. Je prsente ici les rsultats d'une tude exprimentale visant  quantifier la rduction des taux de capture des prdateurs en relation avec l'augmentation de la turbidit dans une situation controle. Les taux de capture chez l'Aigrette garzette taient significativement rduits par la turbidit. Bien que le contrle de la turbidit, efficacit pourrait tre limite par plusieurs facteurs dont le type d'espce commerciale cultive. 
10.2307/1521156|The study of colonial waterbirds offers many opportunities to salvage specimens for museum collections. Such specimens are very much needed since current museum collections especially of skeletons and alcoholic specimens (but also of skins, spread wings, eggs, tissues and other preparations) are quite inadequate for many types of research.
10.2307/1521727|We investigated the population ecology of Newell's Shearwaters (Puffinus auricularis newelli) on the island of Kauai, May-November 1993 and 1994. Reported here are (1) mortality rates of adults and subadults caused by collisions with power lines during summer 1993-1994; (2) mortality rates of fledglings as a result of collisions with power lines and other structures in autumn 1993-1994; (3) calibration of adult and fledgling mortality in the data collected by the Save Our Shearwaters (SOS) program, 1987-1994, using the quantified search effort in 1993-1994; and (4) characteristics of power lines that lead to mortality of adults, subadults and fledglings. SOS rehabilitates fledglings grounded after attraction to lights, a phenomenon called "fallout." Our work was confined to eastern and southern Kauai, where ca. 3,000 shearwater pairs breed. In this area, we estimated that at least 70 breeding adult and 280 subadult shearwaters die each year as a result of collisions with power lines during summer. In the same area, at least 340 fledglings die each autumn. Autumn fallout (and mortality) of fledglings was spread among coastal, urban areas, but summer mortality of adults/subadults was confined, with 74% of deaths occurring at <9% of the coastal power lines (about 7.5 km total). Few adults and no subadults died during autumn. Autumn mortality of fledglings (and fallout in general) increased with greater proximity to bright lights and with the number and (top to bottom) spread of lines in power line arrays. Summer adult/subadult mortality was not correlated to lighting but was correlated to the number and spread of lines, especially where lines were strung across major river valleys. Lack of low vegetation under the lines also increased the number of dead birds found in both seasons. We suggest that in southern and eastern Kauai, (1) mortality as a result of collisions with power lines is significant; (2) fallout involves fledglings that successfully fly to sea but are then attracted back to land by coastal lights; and (3) a large proportion of adult shearwaters use specific river valley flyways to pass to and from colonies.
10.2307/1521260|Recent ornithological surves undertaken in south-east Asia have provided important data on the population size and conservation status of the Milky Stork (Mycteria cinerea) at a regional level. Listed as Vulnerable in the ICBP Bird Red Data Book, the total population of the species is now conservatively estimated at 5,000 birds. Breeding sites are confined to three areas in the Republic of Indonesia, the largest being in the South Sumatra Province. A former colony site in southern Vietnam has been recolonized in recent years. Migratory movements have been recorded and a primary wintering area is in West Java, Indonesia. The principal threats to the species are habitat destruction by large scale coastal wetland development programs for tidal rice cultivation and fishponds, timber exploitation and, more recently, direct persecution for consumption by humans. Ongoing conservation projects are described as are recommended priority conservation measures.
10.2307/1521535|During the winters of 1990-91 and 1991-92, 59 Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) were captured and fitted with radio telemetry transmitters in the Delta region of Mississippi. The cormorants were monitored to determine the distances between night roosting sites and foraging locations, and the amount of time spent foraging versus other activities, such as diving, loafing, and day roosting. Double-crested Cormorants flew an average of 15.7 km from their night roost to a foraging location during the winters of 1990-91 and 1991-92. During the winters of 1990-91 and 1991-92 foraging averaged 17.7% of cormorant daily activity.
10.2307/1521251|The stork family (Ciconiidae) includes 17-19 species, depending upon which classification is followed. They are widely distributed, mainly in the Old World Tropics. Being large, conspicuous, and easily observed, storks are well known birds throughout their range. Several populations are threatened or endangered. The family has three distinct subdivisions or tribes. The wood stork/openbill group contains six medium-sized members that have generalized courtship but specialized feeding behavior. The five to seven species of "typical" storks are all somewhat similar, with mainly black-and-white plumage and straight bills. The "giant" storks comprise six species with impressive stature and massive bills. This account will illustrate and briefly describe the various species, based on the author's eleven-year field study of the group on a worldwide basis.
10.2307/1521424|Foraging distances from the colonies were determined for a guild of 6 species of seabirds, over a 560 km<sup>2</sup> area in northeastern Italy. The densities of Gull-billed and Little Terns decreased with increasing distance from the colonies. The foraging distribution of Mediterranean and Black-headed Gulls, and of Common and Sandwich Terns depended on the location of their preferred habitats, which were available only at given distances from the colonies.
10.2307/1521541| Colony size and nesting success of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) was examined during 1988-90 on the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge (= Bridge) in the San Francisco Bay estuary and at a reference colony on the Farallon Islands, for evidence that pollutants could be harming cormorant reproduction in the estuary. The Bridge colony increased by 43% from 296 to 424 nests by 1990, while the Farallon Island colony (= Island) remained relatively stable at about 290 nests over the three years. Nesting was earlier on the Island than on the Bridge in all years, but on the Bridge there was a trend toward earlier nesting from 1988 to 1990. Success was higher on the Island in 1988, but on the Bridge in 1989 and 1990. The overall mean number of chicks (SE) fledged per nest was: 0.980.07, 1.780.06 and 1.700.06 on the Bridge versus 1.290.07, 1.130.05 and 0.610.05 on the Island from 1988-90, respectively. During 9 of 11 time-periods examined, Bridge nesters had higher success than did Island nesters. Poor success on the Bridge in 1988 matched a later timing of nest initiations. Breeding success decreased seasonally at both locations. Breeding success at both colonies was comparable to that reported for other colonies. There was no evidence that reproductive success or colony size was depressed by pollutants at the San Francisco Bay colony. 
10.2307/1521142| We studied 17 pairs of Ring-billed Gull (Larus delawarensis) breeding in the periphery of a colony located on Ile de la Couve, Qubec. During the incubation period, parents defended an area around their nest averaging 1.27 1.57 m<sup>2</sup>, and parental activities were centered on the nest. The number of agonistic interactions between neighbors depended on the distance between their nests. After hatching, parent birds defended a space around their chicks. There was a significant increase in the size of the defended area (4.59 4.71 m<sup>2</sup>), a consequence of extending the territory toward the outside of the area occupied by the colony. The size of the area defended after hatching did not affect fledging success nor the frequency of aggressions suffered by the chicks. Holders of larger territories showed a greater ratio of displayed aggressions to suffered aggressions and were more motivated to stay longer on their territory. There was no relationship between the territorial expansion and the number of contiguous territories, nor between the latter and the frequency of aggressions suffered by the parents and their chicks. Parent birds had to reach an equilibrium between the time devoted to nest attendance and to foraging; in fact, the greater the number of chicks/brood, the less time was devoted to territory attendance, and the greater the frequency of attacks suffered by the young. From 25 June on, non-neighboring older young, grouped close to the area occupied by breeders, continuously disturbed peripheral breeders by their attempts to rob regurgitations. There was a positive correlation between the frequency of attacks suffered by young and those displayed by their parents against non-neighbors. Since parents usually attacked non-neighbors, hungry chicks were more agitated, moved over greater distances, and exposed themselves to more frequent attacks from neighboring adults. /// L'tude a port sur 17 couples de Golands  bec cercl (Larus delawarensis) en bordure de la colonie de l'le de la Couve (Qubec). Au cours de la priode d'incubation, les parents ont dfendu une surface autour du nid mesurant en moyenne 1,27 1,57 m<sup>2</sup>, et les activits parentales ont t centres autour du nid. Le nombre de rencontres agonistiques entre les voisins a t fonction de la distance entre leurs nids. Aprs l'closion, les parents ont dfendu un espace autour de leurs poussins. On a alors observ, par allongement vers l'extrieur de l'aire occupe par la colonie, un accroissement significatif de la surface territoriale dfendue, celle-ci atteignant en moyenne 4,59 4,71 m<sup>2</sup>. Cette surface dfendue aprs l'closion n'a pas eu d'influence sur le succs  l'envol et la frquence des agressions subies par les poussins. Par contre, les occupants des plus gros territoires ont obtenu un rapport entre les agressions donnes sur les agressions reues plus grand et ont t motivs  demeurer plus longtemps sur leur territoire. Il n'y a pas eu de relation entre l'expansion territoriale et le nombre de territoires contigus. La frquence des agressions subies par les parents et leurs poussins n'a pas non plus t relie au nombre de territories contigus. Les parents ont d trouver un quilibre entre la dure de la garde du territoire et le temps consacr au ravitaillement; de fait, plus la niche a comport de poussins, moins les parents ont pass de temps sur leur territoire, et plus les poussins ont subi des agressions. A partir du 25 juin, des jeunes non-voisins, un peu plus gs, rassembls  proximit de l'aire occupe par les nicheurs, essayant de voler des rgurgitations, ont drang continuellement les nicheurs priphriques. On a constat alors une relation positive entre la frquence des agressions qu'ont subies les poussins et celle des agressions diriges par leurs parents aux non-voisins. Comme les parents se sont attaqus davantage  ces derniers, les poussins affams ont t plus agits, se sont dplacs sur de plus grandes distances, et se sont exposs davantage aux attaques des adultes voisins. 
10.2307/1521217|I determined the abundance, diversity and relative abundance of waterbirds at a 16 hectare wetland complex designed to control urban stormwater runoff from the city of Fremont, California, USA. This demonstration project for an urban stormwater treatment (DUST) wetland complex consisted of three adjacent marshes, which differed in size, shape, water depth and amount of vegetation. For comparative purposes the waterbird population at DUST Marsh was compared to Main Marsh, a nearly natural marsh. Weekly bird censuses were conducted from January to June 1984 and from November 1984 to June 1985 at the two sites located within Coyote Hills Regional Park, Fremont, Alameda County, California. Biweekly censuses were conducted from June to November 1984. DUST Marsh had greater abundance (p<0.05) and species diversity (p<0.001) in 1984; Main Marsh had greater abundance (p<0.05) in 1985. Winter abundance was greater at Main Marsh (p<0.05); DUST Marsh had greater species numbers during spring and summer (p<0.005). Dabbling and diving ducks preferred Main Marsh, whereas shorebirds, gulls and terns preferred the stormwater control marsh. Percentage of open water, emergent vegetation and water depth accounted for differences in marsh utilization. Of the three DUST Marshes, the moist mudflats of the overland flow received the greatest waterbird utilization.
10.2307/1521342|The distribution of pelagic birds was investigated over the continental shelf off southwestern Vancouer Island in September and October of 1986 and 1987. The California Gull (Larus californicus) had higher densities (average 61 birds/km) than all other birds combined and most gulls occurred in few but relatively large flocks near fish trawlers over offshore banks and the outer continental shelf. California Gulls were seen at more locations and in much smaller flocks in nearshore waters than further seaward. Glaucous-winged Gulls (L. glaucescens), Cassin's Auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) and Common Murres (Uria aalge) occurred more in nearshore waters, while Sabine's Gulls (Xema sabini) and Sooty Shearwaters (Puffinus griseus) occurred mostly over the mid shelf. Pink-footed Shearwaters (P. creatopus) were generally observed to be further from shore than were Sooty Shearwaters. Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis) were most abundant in the deepest waters (100-200 m) and Common Murres in the most shallow waters (<60 m). The distribution of pelagic birds over the shelf is discussed in relation to that of their diet and the presence of trawlers.
10.2307/1521378| We present our observations of a previously unknown mainland breeding colony of the Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber) at the Cinaga de Los Olivitos, located in the Lake Maracaibo Basin (Zulia State), Western Venezuela. Breeding was first observed on 20 May 1987, and again in 1988 and 1989. The highest production of young was in 1987, with 4015 nests, or about 8000 breeding birds and 3000 + pullets. In all, a minimum of 5000 birds probably fledged between 1987 and 1989. Within the Lake Maracaibo Basin, flamingos are restricted to the Northern estuarine area, where Los Olivitos is the most important feeding and nesting site with up to 4000-5000 birds. Reports of breeding at Los Olivitos date from 1834. Flamingos have not been known to nest in Venezuela since 1952. /// Se presentan las observaciones sobre una colonia de nidificacin de flamencos (Phoenicopterus ruber), anteriormente desconocida, localizada en la Cinaga de Los Olivitos, en la Cuenca del Lago de Maracaibo (Estado Zulia), al Oeste de Venezuela. La nidificacin fue observada por primera vez el 20 de mayo 1987 y posteriormente en 1988 y 1989. La produccin ms alta de aves se registr en 1987 con 4015 nidos, equivalentes a 8000 aves nidificando y 3000 + pichones. Se estima una produccin mnima de 5000 aves, entre 1987 y 1989. En la Cuenca del Lago de Maracaibo, los flamencos estn restringidos al rea estuarina septentrional, constituyendo Los Olivitos el sitio de alimentacin y nidificacin ms importante, con una poblacin de hasta 4000-5000 aves. Reportes de nidificacin en Los Olivitos datan desde 1834. Los flamencos no habian nidificado en Venezuela desde 1952. 
10.2307/1521861| The diurnal and nocturnal behavior of gulls feeding on discards at trawlers was compared quantitatively on board a research vessel fishing within commercial trawler fleets near Helgoland, southeastern North Sea. In October/November 1993, the total numbers of ship-following Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and Great Black-backed Gulls (L. marinus) averaged 18% and 51% lower at night than during the day. Roundfish were consumed by birds in highest proportions (84-88% of all items discarded), followed by starfish (59-71%) and flatfish (19-43%). Among these foods, only proportions of flatfish eaten varied significantly between night and day. The ratio of interactions between birds per discard item was highest during the day. During both day and night, Great Black-backed Gulls achieved a considerably higher foraging success than did Herring Gulls. In July 1994, Lesser Black-backed Gulls (L. fuscus) and Herring Gulls were the most numerous ship-followers. Whereas roundfish and flatfish were consumed at night (57-90% and 18-47%, respectively), no fish were eaten during the day. Starfish were not taken during day or night. Since the gulls exploited the food equally well by day and by night, they should be regarded as neither nocturnal or diurnal by preference in this area. /// Das Verhalten von Mwen beim Fressen von Discard wurde zwischen Tag und Nacht verglichen. Die Versuche wurden an Bord eines innerhalb von kommerziellen Fischkutterflotten fischenden Forschungsschiffes bei Helgoland in der sdstlichen Nordsee durchgefhrt. Im Oktober/November 1993 waren die Zahlen schiffsfolgender Silbermwen (Larus argentatus) und Mantelmwen (L. marinus) nachts im Mittel 18% und 51% niedriger als tagsber. Rundfische wurden von den Vgeln in den hchsten Prozentstzen (84-88%) gefressen, gefolgt von Seesternen (59-71%) und Plattfischen (19-43%). Bei diesen Nahrungskomponenten unterschieden sich nur die Anteile konsumierter Plattfische signifikant zwischen Tag und Nacht. Die Rate von Interaktionen zwischen Vgeln pro Discard-Teil war tagsber am hchsten. Mantelmwen erreichten tags und nachts einen betrchtlich hheren Freerfolg als Silbermwen. Im Juli 1994 waren Heringsmwen (L. fuscus) und Silbermwen die hufigsten Schiffsfolger. Whrend Rundfische und Plattfische (57-90% bzw. 18-47%) nachts gefressen wurden, wurden tagsber keine Fische konsumiert. Seesterne wurden weder tagsber noch nachts verspiesen. Da die Mwen die Nahrung bei Tag und Nacht gleich gut nutzten, sollten sie als weder bevorzugt tagaktiv noch bevorzugt nachtaktiv betrachtet werden. 
10.2307/1521002|In 1981 and 1982 we studied the reproductive success of American White Pelicans in the Klamath Basin of northern California. We observed that reproductive success at one colony (Lower Klamath) became reduced in 1981 when we entered that colony to collect eggs for chemical analysis and to mark nests for an assessment of nesting success. Those pelicans produced only 0.5 Y/N (young per nest attempt) contrasted to pelicans nesting at an undisturbed colony that produced about 1.2 Y/N. No colonies were entered in 1982 and both produced about 1.1 Y/N. We concluded that our activities (similar to those of many researchers) reduced the success of that one disturbed colony. We suggest that the sample-egg technique should not be used in American White Pelican colonies, in-colony activities should be very limited, and researchers in bird colonies should attempt more often to assess the effects of their own activities.
10.2307/1521479|Previous censuses of cormorant colonies have been made at various stages of the breeding season, using different census units and criteria, and little effort has been made to quantify resulting errors in population estimates. The population of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) nesting in the North American Great Lakes has been increasing on average at 29% per annum in recent years, and there is an urgent need for reliable population estimates, in relation to this species' interactions with commercial and sport fisheries. We investigated within-season changes in numbers of apparently occupied nests (AONs) at 44 colony sites in lakes Superior and Huron, and at four colony sites in Lake Ontario. AON numbers increased significantly between the incubation and nestling stages (mean 22% for lakes Superior/Huron, and 74% for Lake Ontario), but remained relatively stable or declined during the nesting period (range -19% to +6% for Lake Ontario). The magnitude of the increase in AON numbers between incubation and nestling periods was influenced most strongly by the earliness of the incubation stage census. Breeding was later at colony sites at higher latitudes, but there was little evidence of marked annual variation in chronology. Laying at recently formed colonies was later than at well-established ones. We suggest that more reliable population estimates for Double-crested Cormorant colonies, particularly in rapidly expanding populations, will be obtained if future censuses are made during the nestling stage, using our criteria for the census unit (AON).
10.2307/1521040| Organochlorine contamination of Great Blue Heron eggs was examined in 12 heronries in southern Quebec in 1979. Five of the heronries were located along the St. Lawrence River which drains the Great Lakes, an area where high levels of contamination have been reported. The main organochlorine residues found in the 47-egg sample were DDE and PCBs with mean concentrations of 2.42 ppm and 7.88 ppm, respectively, on a wet weight basis. With the exception of one colony, eggs from all heronries contained low levels of DDE and of the same order as reported for Atlantic and Gulf Coast states. PCB levels were higher in colonies along the St. Lawrence than those elsewhere in southern Quebec but lower than those reported for Great Lake States. Mean eggshell thickness was 0.372 mm (SD  0.028), indicating a reduction of 5.3% from pre-1947 material. This reduction was not corroborated by thickness index. Mean eggshell thickness, excluding inner shell membrane, was 0.330 mm (SD  0.028). DDE residues were significantly correlated to shell thickness indices and to shell thickness without inner shell membranes. These results are interpreted in the light of embryonic development. Biological significance of residue levels are discussed. /// La contamination des oeufs de Grand Hron (Ardea herodias) a t tudie dans 12 hronnires du sud du Qubec en 1979. Cinq hronnires taient localises le long du fleuve St-Laurent, lequel origine des Grands Lacs, une rgion ou des niveaux levs de contaminants ont t rapports. Les principaux rsidus organochlors retrouvs dans l'chantillon de 47 oeufs taient le DDE et les PCBs avec respectivement des concentrations moyennes de 1,89 ppm et 7,75 ppm sur la base du poids frais. A l'exception d'une colonie, les oeufs reclaient des concentrations faibles de DDE, du mme ordre de grandeur que celles rapportes dans les tats amricains de la cte Atlantique et du Golfe du Mexique. Par contre, les niveaux de PCB taient suprieurs dans les colonies le long du fleuve St-Laurent qu'ailleurs au Qubec, mais infrieurs  ceux rapports pour la rgion des Grands Lacs. L'paisseur moyenne de la coquille des oeufs tait de 0,372 mm (s  0,028) reprsentant une diminution de 5,3% par rapport aux oeufs rcolts avant 1947. Cette rduction n'tait pas corrobore par l'indice d'paisseur. L'paisseur de la coquille, excluant les membranes internes, tait de 0,330 mm (s  0,028). Les concentrations en DDE taient en collration avec les indices d'paisseur et l'paisseur des coquilles, sans les membranes internes. Ces rsultats sont interprts  la lumire du dveloppement embryonique du chorio-allantois. La signification biologique des concentrations dtectes est discute. 
10.2307/1521357|To evaluate the incidence of ocean-borne plastic particle ingestion by western North Atlantic seabirds, we analyzed the gut contents of 1033 birds collected off the coast of North Carolina from 1975-1989. Twenty-one of 38 seabird species (55%) contained plastic particles. Procellariiform birds contained the most plastic and the presence of plastic was clearly correlated with feeding mode and diet. Plastic ingestion by procellariiforms increased over the 14 year study period, probably as a result of increasing plastic particle availability. Some seabirds showed a tendency to select specific plastic shapes and colors, indicating that they may be mistaking plastics for potential prey items. We found no evidence that seabird health was affected by the presence of plastic, even in species containing the largest quantities: Northern Fulmars (Fulmarus glacialis), Red Phalaropes (Phalaropus fulicaria) and Greater Shearwaters (Puffinus gravis).
10.2307/1521237|We describe several methods of trapping adult Brown Noddies and Bridled Terns during incubation or early chick rearing. Particular success was achieved using a simply constructed noosing pole. Several Brown Noddies that could not be noosed were successfully captured using a nest trap. No negative effect of the trapping or banding activities was observed. Color banding procedures for both species are described. Color band loss and wear was minimal on Brown Noddies banded in 1985 and observed again in 1986.
10.2307/1521763|In North America, Razorbills (Alca torda) breed in colonies scattered along the coast of Atlantic Canada and the northeastern coast of Maine, but with primary concentrations in Labrador and the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Given the small North American population (ca. 20,000 pairs) and the large decrease which occurred in the Gulf of St. Lawrence during the 1970s, an intensive effort to band Razorbills on the North Shore of the gulf and to a less extent in Labrador was accomplished between 1981 and 1995. Using banding recoveries of Razorbills from this operation, and former one on the Atlantic coast, we traced their movements and showed how the species could be exposed to different risks during the non-breeding season. More than 50% of the recoveries came from the legal Thick-billed Murre (Uria lomvia) hunt in Newfoundland, suggesting that shooting could be the most important mortality factor for immature birds. A study of color-banded birds combined with triangular bands that could be read from a distance was started in 1990 at St. Mary's Islands (Quebec) and suggests a mean annual adult survival rate of 90%. This measure of adult survival combined with productivity figures and current population trends allowed to estimate a 38% survival rate for immatures.
10.2307/1521870| From 1992-1995, I studied the predation of migrating Peregrine Falcons (Falco peregrinus) on a threatened seabird, Audouin's Gull (Larus audouinii), at the largest breeding colony of the species, with ca. 70% of the world population (Ebro Delta, northwest Mediterranean). Falcons were responsible for 12% of total dead adult Audouin's Gulls in the colony. Although adult survival is a highly sensitive parameter in the population dynamics of this seabird, current levels of falcon predation at the site probably do not threaten Audouin's Gulls at this colony. /// Se estudi la predacin de halcn peregrino Falco peregrinus sobre la gaviota de Audouin Larus audouinii, un ave marina amenazada. El estudio se llev a cabo durante 1992-1995 en la colonia de gaviota de Audouin ms grande del mundo (Delta de l'Ebre), que contiene aproximadamente el 70% de la poblacin total de la especie. Los resultados sugieren que las predaciones fueron llevadas a cabo por halcones migradores, de paso por la zona. Los halcones fueron responsables del 12% de la mortalidad adulta en la colonia. Aunque la supervivencia de individuos adultos de gaviota de Audouin es un parmetro muy sensible en la demografa de esta especie, las tasas de predacin registradas no sugieren que los halcones representen una amenaza para esta colonia. 
10.2307/1521030|Egg loss was high in both 1968 and 1969 at a Forster's Tern (Sterna forsteri) colony in Delta Marsh, Manitoba. Most loss was attributed to weather, especially wave action. In 1968 nests on muskrat houses fared better than did those on floating nests, because the latter were more susceptible to wave action. In 1969 renovation of houses by muskrats after heavy rains was a significant loss factor. Other agents responsible for loss of eggs or young included predation by a mink and breakage of eggs by spawning carp. Factors reducing nest loss included nest site and aggressive behaviour towards potential avian predators by terns and Yellow-headed Blackbirds.
10.2307/1521872|We observed nocturnal predation by Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) on eggs and chicks of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) at a restored tern colony on the coast of southern Maine. Dissection of a nocturnal predatory gull in 1994 revealed two 7d old chicks, 3 embryonic chicks and 5 eggs. Further observations implicating nocturnal predation by gulls on tern eggs in 1995 confirmed that Great Black-backed Gulls can raid tern nesting colonies during moderate to low nocturnal light conditions.
10.2307/1521732| Adult breeding Chinstrap Penguins (Pygoscelis antarctica) have larger bills than one year old individuals, whereas the flipper length does not differ. Therefore, bill size increases with age during the juvenile stage. The allometric relationships of both bill length and bill depth with flipper length do not differ between age groups. The relation of bill length with bill depth does not differ between adults and juveniles, suggesting no change in bill shape with age. If the random samples of adults and yearlings represent a similar proportion of males and females, these results do not support sex divergence in bill growth after the first year of life. /// Este trabajo muestra que los adultos reproductores de Pingino Barbijo (Pygoscelis antarctica) tienen picos mayores que los individuos de un ao de edad, mientras que la longitud de la aleta no difiere. Por lo tanto, el tamao del pico se incrementa con la edad durante el periodo juvenil. Las relaciones alomtricas de la longitud y anchura del pico con la aleta no difiere entre ambas clases de edad. Tampoco hay diferencias entre adultos y jvenes en la relacin entre la longitud del pico y la anchura del pico, sugiriendo que la forma del pico no cambia con la edad. Si las muestras aleatorias de adultos y jvenes del ao presentaron una proporcin similar de machos y hembras, estos resultados no muestran ninguna evidencia de divergencia sexual en el crecimiento del pico tras el primer ao de vida. 
10.2307/1521307| In 1985, at Home Bay, Baffin Island, Larus glaucoides kumlieni and L. g. thayeri bred non-assortatively, as had been reported for 1975 and 1976 (Godfrey 1986). Among L. glaucoides collected on the east coast of Baffin Island by N. Smith, B. Knudsen and myself, there is no significant correlation (Spearman rank test, all r values |0.13|, all NS) between measures of bill length and an of primary feather melanism for males (n = 20) or females (n = 18). Similarly, among 23 glaucoides birds collected by N. Smith, there is no evidence (Kruskal-Wallis  <sup>2</sup> = 2.01, d.f. = 2, NS) that the amount of wingtip melanism differs significantly among three classes of iris melanism (light or clear, medium, heavy or dark; as recorded on specimen tags). I surveyed nine of 15 sites where 24 years earlier Larus gull colonies had been reported. At six of the nine sites, no colonies were found; the three colonies still present each comprised 70 birds. In 1985, birds were present at two additional sites, colonies 50 birds, discovered in 1975 by B. Knudsen. In 1985, at yet three other sites, colonies comprising 12 birds were discovered. L. argentatus, previously at the edge of its range at Home Bay, apparently did not breed there in 1985, and may have withdrawn entirely. I assess logistic difficulties associated with the research done in Home Bay during 1961, a portion of which revealed L. g. kumlieni and L. g. thayeri to be 100% reproductively isolated. I conclude that the extensive and complicated research protocols reported for 1961 (Smith 1963; 1966a,b; 1967; 1969) could likely not all have been accomplished in the time which would have been available, and suggest future workers view conclusions from those earlier studies cautiously. 
10.2307/1521379| We studied part of the world's largest breeding colony of Audouin's Gull (Larus audouinii) in the Ebro Delta, NE Spain, in 1992, to evaluate predation and kleptoparasitism effects by Yellow-legged Gulls (Larus cachinnans). Kleptoparasitic attacks were the most frequent kind of disturbance, concentrated during the period when Yellow-legged Gull chicks were being raised. This also coincided with a moratorium period for commercial fisheries when the food resource provided by fishing vessels was unavailable. More attacks occurred either early or late in the day when the Audouin's Gulls returned to the colony from feeding sites. The success rate was higher for long chases and for large parasitic groups of gulls. Subadult and adult Yellow-legged Gulls had similar kleptoparasitic success. Yellow-legged Gull predation on Audouin's Gull eggs and chicks was low and appeared not to affect the breeding performance of Audouin's Gull. /// Durante la primavera de 1992, se describieron y analizaron las formas de agresin de la Gaviota Patiamarilla Larus cachinnans sobre la Gaviota de Audouin Larus audouinii en la colonia de cra del Delta del Ebro, NE de Espaa, la ms importante del mundo. Los ataques de kleptoparasitismo fueron la forma de agresin ms frecuente, concentrndose durante el periodo de crecimiento de los pollos de Gaviota Patiamarilla y coincidiendo con una moratoria de veda de los barcos de pesca de la zona, cuando el recurso alimenticio que supone el pescado que descartan no estaba disponible. La frecuencia de ataques fue mayor a primeras y ltimas horas del da, cuando las Gaviotas de Audouin regresaban a la colonia desde los lugares de alimentacin. La tasa de xito fue mayor para ataques prolongados y para grupos grandes de parsitos. Adultos y subadultos de Gaviota Patiamarilla mostraron tasas de xito similares. La predacin de Gaviota Patiamarilla sobre huevos o pollos de Gaviota de Audouin fue an mas baja. 
10.2307/1521082|To date, 13 species of Ciconiiforms have been reported in Wyoming. Five of these species have known breeding populations in the state: the American Bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus), Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), and White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi). Results of a mail survey, one newspaper article, and field inventories indicate that about 61 Great Blue Heron colonies are distributed throughout the state. Most of these occur in the Green, Bighorn, Snake, Powder, and North Platte river drainages. Only small breeding populations have been found for the remaining four species that nest in Wyoming. Both the Yellow-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax violaceus) and White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) are recent additions to the Wyoming avifauna. Only historical records exist in the state for the Least Bittern (Ixobrychus exilis) and Wood Stork (Mycteria americana). More inventory work will probably result in the discovery of additional colonies of all species that currently nest in the state. Many breeding populations are threatened by habitat loss, human disturbance, and possibly organochlorine contamination.
10.2307/1521773|Wading birds are dependent on wetlands that are under increasing pressure worldwide. Distributed throughout almost all wetlands, these birds have been the subject of many decades of intensive research. Understanding their ecology is a critical requirement of their conservation strategies. The amount of information obtained by the mid 1970s and synthesized at the 1976 North American Wading Bird Conference was most impressive. However, many new findings have been published since, particularly in the various fields of behavioral ecology and evolutionary ecology, and these help to clarify ideas on relationships between the environment and the birds. In this short review, I focus on a few topics where ecological studies have significantly improved our knowledge of basic requirements of wading birds. Such knowledge can now be applied to the conservation of wading birds and their habitats.
10.2307/1521400|Although Pea Patch Island in the upper Delaware Bay has been the site of a large assemblage of nesting Ciconiiforms since the early 1970's, abundance estimates were inadequate to guide wildlife management planning, and no recent information on productivity was available. I conducted abundance surveys and nest studies of the 12,000 pair colony in 1993. Abundance estimates were obtained through ground-based nest counts, counts of attending adults, and aerial surveys. I determined wading bird productivity through regular visits to colony subareas to follow the success of marked nests. Nine species of Ciconiiforms nested in the colony, 82% of which utilized reed marsh areas for nesting substrate. Monitored species that showed poor reproductive success compared to other Atlantic coast colonies were Snowy Egret, Cattle Egret, and Glossy Ibis. In contrast, Little Blue Heron showed normal reproductive success on Pea Patch Island. Egg predation, egg inviability, and nestling starvation were the most important factors of offspring mortality. Nestling growth of all species except Snowy Egret was comparable to other studies. Pea Patch Island has hosted a significant proportion of the Atlantic coast populations of wading birds for twenty years and continues as a wildlife resource of national importance.
10.2307/1521154|Confusion has arisen by the varying and imprecise use of the terms "survey," "census," "colony," and "colony site." The term "survey" should be restricted to locating colony sites; whereas "census" is the enumeration of the inhabitants of such a colony site. The term "colony" should not be used to refer to the site of colonial nesting but should be restricted to the avian assemblage itself. Failure to distinguish a colony of birds from the site they inhabit may lead to inexactitude and inhibit appropriate evaluation of regional populations.
10.2307/1521141| Sooty Terns breed on islands between 28N and 31S latitudes. In general, they nest on bare sand or in sites with sparse, low vegetation. We examined nest site selection on Manana Island (Hawaii) where tern nests had scant cover and at three colonies off Puerto Rico where they nested in dense vegetation. In comparing the study sites, significant differences between nest sites and random points emerged with respect to vegetation height, cover, visibility of the nest, visibility from the nest, and distance to open areas. On Puerto Rico, given the available vegetation, Sooty Terns nested in the tallest vegetation and nested closer to one another than predicted on the basis of random point nearest neighbor distances. Sooty Terns selected nest sites with a narrow range of cover over the nest (means ranged from 80-90% for several study sites) compared to available cover (means of 70-95% for random points). Tall vegetation affects cover that provides protection from the sun, rain, people and predators. Temperatures were significantly different under vegetation of different heights. 
10.2307/1521031|The roles of nest site selection and nest construction in resisting tidal washout of Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) nests built on tidal saltmarshes in Shinnecock Bay, Long Island, N.Y., were examined in two colonies, one of which contained two subcolonies and embraced three discrete habitat subtypes. Variables examined were nest cup depth, nest diameter, nest height, nest site elevation, nest rim height, and vegetative cover; clutch size, a possible indicator of experience, was also recorded. Survival rates following very high tides produced by a coincidence of spring and storm tidal flooding in June 1981 were studied, and were then correlated with nest and site variables at the five locations. Site elevation and nest height were the most important factors for nest survival under flood conditions. We found that nest survival was dependent upon elevation above mean sea level in more exposed areas, but that nest size could compensate for low site elevation in high saltmarsh (Spartina patens). However, nest diameter and vegetative cover also played a role at low saltmarsh (S. alterniflora) locations. Little correlation was found among the variables, and great variation was present in almost all the factors studied. Nest flotation and behavioral responses to washout such as relaying and egg retrieval are briefly discussed. Despite severe flooding conditions, nest survival was unexpectedly high, ranging from 70%-95%, with no significant differences in survival found within the one subcolony studied at the microhabitat level. We attribute Common Tern saltmarsh nesting success and habitat eurytopy to their adaptability when confronted by a wide range of unstable habitat conditions.
10.2307/1521504|Hurricane Hugo was a category 4 storm when it struck the South Carolina coast early on the morning of 22 September 1989. The eye of the storm passed about 80 km south of Pumpkinseed Island, the largest active wading-bird colony site in the state. Compared with coastal destruction elsewhere, especially in nearby maritime forests and coastal impoundments, damage to vegetation on the island was slight. Even so, shrubs used by nesting Great Egrets and Snowy Egrets were damaged more heavily than was grassy vegetation used by nesting Tricolored Herons, Glossy Ibises, and White Ibises. Numbers of nesting Great Egrets and, to a lesser extent, Tricolored Herons, but not Snowy Egrets and Glossy Ibises, declined substantially in 1990, following the storm. The greatest decline in nesting, however, occurred among White Ibises, whose numbers plummeted from > 10,000 pairs in 1989 to 0 in 1990. We speculate on why species "responded" differently to the storm.
10.2307/1521345|Conover and Hunt responded to a Commentary in which I pointed out possible problems in using museum specimen data for determining sex ratios, especially in young birds. They believed their results were unaffected by museum label problems, but their arguments did not take certain factors into adequate consideration.
10.2307/1521556| In a colony of Grey Herons (Ardea cinerea) studied for 15 years in western Spain, average clutch size was 3.5  1.0 (1s.d.) and each pair made on average 1.17 breeding attempts per year. The mean brood size was 2.2  1.0 nestlings, including totally failed pairs (15.9% of total) and 2.6  1.4 nestlings when these were excluded. Double broods of the same pair were raised, both successfully, by 1.36% of the pairs. Brood size varied with parental age: 1.8  1.3 nestlings in pairs containing one 2-year-old bird, 2.7  1.4 in mixed pairs with one 3-year-old bird, and 2.8  1.4 in pairs of 4-year-old birds. Mortality rate was estimated at 66.7% for yearlings (<2-year-old). From the fledglings produced in a given year, 11.6% return to the colony the next year; 5.6% return after three years, and 3.1% return after four years. The population increased at an annual rate of 34.6% during the first eight years, and then remained stable. /// En una colonia de Garza Real (Ardea cinerea) estudiada durante 15 aos en el oeste de Espaa, el tamao medio de puesta fue 3.5  1.0 (1s.d.). Cada pareja realiz una media de 1.17 intentos reproductores por ao. El tamao medio de pollada fue 2.2  1.0 pollos, incluyendo las parejas que fracasaron totalmente (15.9% del total), y 2.6  1.4 pollos cuando stas no se incluyen. El 1.36% de las parejas hacen 2 puestas anuales, ambas con xito. El tamao de pollada vara con la edad de los padres: 1.8  1.3 pollos en parejas con un ave de 2 aos, 2.7  1.4 en parejas mixtas con un ave de 3 aos, y 2.8  1.4 en parejas con dos aves de 4  ms aos. 
10.2307/1521193|In 1981, we studied Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) and Elegant Terns (S. elegans) nesting at the south end of San Diego Bay, California. Randomly collected Caspian Tern eggs contained significantly (P<0.05) higher mean concentrations of DDE (9.30 ppm) than did Elegant Tern eggs (3.79 ppm). DDE may have had an adverse effect on Caspian Tern reproduction but the relationship between hatching success and DDE concentration was not clear. We found an unusually high incidence of chicks (4.6%) that died in hatching. Caspian Tern eggs that broke during incubation or contained chicks that died while hatching had shells that were significantly (P<0.05) thinner than eggs collected before 1947, and DDE was associated with reductions in shell thickness index (i.e., lowered eggshell density). Fish brought to Caspian Tern chicks contained up to 3.0 ppm DDE and 1.1 ppm PCBs. Organochlorine concentrations in brains of terns found dead were not high enough to suggest such poisoning as a cause of death.
10.2307/1521475|I monitored the foraging flights of four species of nesting adult wading birds at Lake Okeechobee, Florida, from 1989-1992 during chick-rearing periods. Median flight distances were: Great Egret (Casmerodius albus, N = 356) 3.7 km, range 0.1 - 33.3; Snowy Egret (Egretta thula, N = 236) 2.8 km, range 0.1 - 29.8; Tricolored Heron (E. tricolor, N = 82) 2.4 km, 0.1 - 22.3; and White Ibis (Eudocimus albus, N = 286) 2.7 km, range 0.1-33.3. Flights at the lake averaged moderate to short in comparison to those monitored in other areas of the southeastern United States. I found little evidence that increasing foraging flight distances influenced levels of nesting success and nestling production. Tricolored Herons were the possible exception; linear regressions of annual median flight distances versus colony-specific estimates of nest success and productivity revealed significant negative relationships. The association arose primarily because flights during two seasons averaged longer and success lower at one colony. Instead of foraging nearby in agricultural field ditches along with Snowy Egrets and Great Egrets, Tricolored Herons at this colony frequently traveled relatively long distances to forage in natural habitats within the diked boundaries of the lake. The dike that surrounds the lake produces an abrupt transition between natural habitats on the lake and diverse natural and artificial habitats off the lake. Tricolored Herons that nested on the lake generally foraged within the diked boundaries of the lake, but the dike's presence may help ensure that the other species nesting on the lake have access to diverse foraging opportunities under a wide range of hydrologic conditions. For all species, patterns of habitat use shifted significantly in response to fluctuations of the lake stage. There was evidence that high lake stages and rising water increased the flight distances of Snowy Egrets and perhaps Great Egrets, and that interruptions in otherwise steady surface-water trends (rising or falling levels) increased the flight distances of White Ibises. However, the variety of accessible habitats was such that nesting birds usually could adjust their patterns of habitat use in response to changing hydrologic conditions without having to extend their foraging distances to a degree sufficient to reduce levels of nesting success and productivity. Instead, variation in the quality of habitats accessible under different hydrologic conditions probably did contribute to observed variation in nest productivity.
10.2307/1521418|East Coast Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) generally nest in relatively barren, homogeneous habitats of broad sandy beaches on barrier islands or on spoil deposition sites. We studied Least Terns at several New York (N=4) and New Jersey colonies. About 300 pairs of Least Terns nested along 2 km of beach on Brigantine Beach, NJ in 1983. The New York colonies contained from 20-300 pairs estimated from single visits in 1971, 1974 and 1977. At most sites choice of nest sites differed from random with respect to position on the beach, elevation and slope, shell cover, vegetation cover, and distance to vegetation. Terns preferred to nest in the middle third of the beach, on areas with shell cover, and on ridges and slopes. On sparsely vegetated beaches, nests were closer to vegetation than were the random points; on heavily vegetated areas, nests were further from vegetation than were the random points. At Brigantine, fox and cats entered the colony from the dunes and preyed heavily on nests closest to the dunes. Terns nesting during the peak of the nesting season fledged the most young and suffered the fewest losses to predators. At Brigantine, disturbance was less at the ends of the colony, resulting in higher reproductive success in these sections. In the Long Island colonies beach vehicles, humans, and cats were the main causes of egg and clutch mortality.
10.2307/1521591|The food habits of wading birds in the tropics are poorly known, particularly in coastal systems. We documented the food habits of Tricolored Herons (Egretta tricolor), Great Egrets (Ardea alba), Snowy Egrets (E. thula) and Little Blue Herons (E. caerulea), and assessed the degree of similarity among their diets in a mangrove swamp in southwestern Puerto Rico. Thirty-five birds were collected during the winters of 1994 and 1995 to examine their stomach contents. Eleven prey groups, comprised of 7 families of fish, 2 genera of crustacea (Xiphocaris, Uca) a lizard (Anolis spp.) and one group of insecta (i.e., Orthoptera), were identified. Great and Snowy Egrets fed mainly on shrimps (Xiphocaris spp.) and guppies (Poecilia spp.), while Little Blue Herons fed exclusively on Fiddler crabs (Uca spp.), and Tricolored Herons fed mainly on guppies (Poecilia spp.) and snooks (Centropomus spp.). Three dietary groups were identified on the basis of a percentage overlap index. Snowy and Great Egrets exhibited the highest degree of dietary overlap (54%) owing to their high consumption of shrimps. Fish contributed to the intermediate overlap values (22-24%) among Tricolored Herons and Snowy and Great Egrets. Little Blue Herons overlapped the least (i.e., < 1%) with Tricolored Herons and Great Egrets, and not at all with Snowy Egrets. Our data underscored the ability of wading birds to prey upon a variety of resources across their range. This capability is advantageous when exploiting coastal systems which might exhibit spatio-temporal fluctuations in prey availability.
10.2307/1521691|In order to restore Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus bachmani) and Pigeon Guillemots (Cepphus columba), 2 species injured by the T/V Exxon Valdez oil spill, the introduced predator, arctic fox (Alopex lagopus), was removed from 2 islands near the western edge of the trajectory of the oil. In 1994, most of the foxes (33 animals) were removed from Simeonof Island, and all foxes (3 animals) were eliminated from Chernabura Island. The remaining 5 foxes were removed from Simeonof by July 1995. Surveys indicated that although adequate nesting habitat was available at Simeonof and Chernabura, oystercatcher and guillemot population densities were much lower than at nearby fox-free islands. Elimination of foxes is expected to dramatically increase populations of these injured species as well as other native birds.
10.2307/1521320|Little is known of courtship and breeding of the Sumatran Heron Ardea sumatrana. Four separate displays are described, performed by an apparently mated pair on Lazarus Island, in the St. John's Island Group south of Singapore Island in June 1986.
10.2307/1521920| We observed flocks of 50 to 500 White-faced Ibises (Plegadis chihi) at a poultry farm in La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mexico. The birds fed on coprophilic beetles. The establishment of poultry farms and cattle pastures may benefit overwintering White-faced Ibises in the area. /// Se observaron bandos de 50 a 500 Moritos Cariblancos (Plegadis chihi) en una granja de gallinas localizada en La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mxico. Los moritos se alimentaban de escarabajos coprfagos. El establecimiento de granjas y la creacin de potreros (pastos) para vacas podran estar beneficiando la invernada de los Moritos Cariblancos en el rea. 
10.2307/1521642|The status of the White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi) in the Great Basin is of concern because of its small population size and the limited and dynamic nature of its breeding habitat. We analyzed existing annual survey data for the White-faced Ibis breeding in the Great Basin and surrounding area for 1985-1997. Methods varied among colonies and included flight-line counts and fixed-wing aircraft and helicopter surveys. The number of White-faced Ibis breeding pairs in the Great Basin area has nearly tripled since 1985, despite years of severe flooding and drought at major breeding areas. This growth is reflected in both peripheral (i.e., Oregon, California, Idaho) and core (i.e., Nevada and Utah) components of the population. Our data on colony dynamics in Oregon and Nevada illustrate the ability of the highly nomadic White-faced Ibis to compensate for poor conditions at traditional colony sites by moving among colonies and rapidly colonizing newly available wetlands. We suggest that the White-faced Ibis would benefit from a landscape mosaic of well-distributed peripheral wetlands and persistent colony sites. The nomadic nature of the White-faced Ibis and the dynamic nature of their breeding habitat necessitates that wetland management decisions and population monitoring be conducted in a regional context.
10.2307/1521433|Individual wading birds derived several benefits by participating in mixed-species wader foraging aggregations including: (1) increased capture rate; (2) increased capture efficiency; (3) a decrease in the variance in capture efficiency and; (4) a decrease in energy expended while foraging. The Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) was the only species that exhibited a significant improvement in capture rate and efficiency which, along with other evidence, supports speculation that they may be dependent on group foraging during the nesting period. All species except the Great Egret (Casmerodius albus) showed a significant decrease in variance in capture efficiency. The Great Egret and Little Blue Heron (Egretta caerulea), along with the Snowy Egret, significantly reduced the energetic cost of foraging by reducing stepping rates in aggregations. Tricolored Herons (Egretta tricolor) exhibited no significant improvement in foraging success or energy expenditure in aggregations. The combination of benefits obtained may be related to general foraging behavior, characteristic position within an aggregation, influence of predator disturbance on prey behavior, and habitat characteristics. Use of specific foraging behaviors, similarity of prey density among pools, and other evidence suggested that groups benefit because of prey disturbance and its influence on availability, rather than selective pool exploitation.
10.2307/1521758| We evaluated aerial photography (full coverage, using fixed-wing aircraft) and aerial video (transects, using helicopter) surveys to estimate the population of Laughing Gull (Larus atricilla) nests in Jamaica Bay, New York, during June 1992-1995. We counted 4,920 nests in the colony using aerial photography and estimated 5,367 nests using aerial video in 1992. In 1993-1995, we respectively counted 5,691, 5,095, and 6,126 nests in the colony using aerial photography, and estimated from ground plots that our counts differed from the actual number of nests by means of -9% to 1%. Overall (1993-1995) correction factors (by which to multiply the aerial photography nest counts) to estimate the mean and 95% lower and upper CI range of the nest population were 1.04, 0.96 and 1.13, respectively. Ninety-seven percent of nests identified using aerial photography or video had 1 adult Laughing Gull present or within 1 m of the nest. The aerial video survey was less expensive ($2,100 United States currency) than the aerial photography survey ($4,000). The estimated cost of a total count of nests from the ground is $6,700-$9,600. The aerial video survey provided an accurate estimate of the number of nests. Full-coverage aerial photography also provided an accurate estimate of nests in addition to habitat, nest distribution and nest density data. 
10.2307/1521594|We examined pre-fledging weight recession in Pigeon Guillemot (Cepphus columba) chicks in relation to chick growth and variation in food availability from 1989-1995. Chick weight recession was apparent after 35 days of age in all years. In years of low food availability, chicks grew slower (7 g day<sup>-1</sup>) and lost 10-17% of asymptotic weight (i.e., maximum) for an average of 6 days preceding fledging. In years of moderate to high food availability, chicks grew more rapidly (11 g day<sup>-1</sup>) and lost 3.3-4.1% of asymptotic weight over an average of 2 days prior to fledging. In years of moderate to high food availability, heavier chicks showed more pronounced weight recession than lighter chicks. In 1989, chicks hatching later in the season lost more weight than earlier hatching chicks, but this pattern was not evident in other years. Younger chicks of 2-chick broods took longer to reach asymptotic and fledging weight than their older siblings. Chicks from 2-chick broods where only 1 chick survived to fledging had more pronounced weight recession and took longer to reach asymptotic and fledging weight than chicks from successful 2-chick broods. In years of poor food availability, chick weight recession appeared to reflect difficulties experienced by foraging parents. In years of higher food availability, weight recession may have reflected an adaptive response to fledging at an optimal weight which balances body reserves with reduced wing-loading. This may benefit chicks by increasing their ability to avoid predation at fledging, while providing some energy reserves until foraging skills develop. Moreover, if true, this may allow parents to reduce food provisioning rates late in the chick-rearing period, thereby decreasing any existing cost of reproduction.
10.2307/1521956|The importance of rice fields for breeding herons was assessed during comparative studies of their foraging ecology (densities of foraging adults, prey abundance, feeding success, chick diets) in the five major regions of rice cultivation in Europe: northwest Italy, the Po Delta in northeast Italy, the Rhone Delta in France, the Axios Delta in Greece, and the Ebro Delta in Spain. Rice fields offered better conditions to foraging herons than natural habitats in northwestern and northeastern Italy where the number of feeding herons, food intake rates, and prey abundance in rice fields were higher. The proportion of the food resources obtained by herons from the agricultural habitats, rice fields and small irrigation canals was estimated using two independent methods. Six heron species acquired more than half of their food from rice fields in all the regions except the Rhone Delta where agricultural habitats offered less prey. We conclude that rice fields are the main foraging habitat for herons breeding in Mediterranean Europe, and we urge authorities to consider the special importance of rice field management to the conservation of Mediterranean herons.
10.2307/1521823|New York Harbor, an estuary where abundant wildlife populations and industry coexist, sustained six major oil spills in 1990. Investment in the development of baseline ecological data on wading birds nesting in the harbor four years prior to 1990 provided regulators and the environmental community with a powerful tool for assessing damages and hastening the recovery process. This commentary shows how scientific preparedness, in addition to response planning by regulatory agencies and industry, can substantially improve the chances of recovering injured natural resources in the event of major oil releases.
10.2307/1521654| The Puihuil islands, off the coast of Chilo, southern Chile, have the only known mixed colony of Humboldt (Spheniscus humboldti) and Magellanic penguins (S. magellanicus). Since first reported in 1985, the colony has experienced heavy human disturbance, mainly caused by non-regulated tourist activities and the introduction of domestic goats. On the island closest to shore and most frequently visited by tourists, 28% of dirt burrows have collapsed, mainly by accidental trampling and goat activity. In addition, goats browse the vegetation used by penguins to build their nests. On the island located farthest offshore, with no goats and fewer tourists, only 10% of dirt burrows have collapsed. Comparison with previous population estimates suggests that the colony has declined over the last decade. Considering the important biological value as a mixed colony of Spheniscus penguins, we propose that these islands be officially protected. 
10.2307/1521459|Nearly 400 Glossy Ibises (Plegadis falcinellus) and a similar number of Black-tailed Godwits (Limosa limosa) were seen foraging on standing crops of sugar sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) in inundated fields near Hakimah Dam in southwestern Saudi Arabia. Godwits were seen hovering/flying and plucking ripe grains from sorghum follicles, while ibises sitting momentarily on half bent plant stems also plucked grains from panicles. This foraging behavior resulted in substantial crop damage.
10.2307/1521231|Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) nesting on Granite Island, northern Lake Superior, Canada, were studied from 1975 to 1984 (1977 and '79 excluded) to determine if there was a relationship between female body condition and egg characteristics through the laying sequence. Each season, egg size, weight and number were recorded from individual clutches. In 1983 and 1984, first, second and third eggs in each clutch were marked for recognition. In 1984, clutches were larger than in 1983. In both years, there was no significant difference in egg size or weight within clutches. Eggs laid in 1984 were no larger or heavier than those laid in 1983. Chemical analyses of fresh eggs revealed that an average of 30% of fresh egg weight was yolk, with a yolk to albumen ratio of 0.50. Water accounted for approximately 72% of fresh egg weight. Eight percent of fresh egg weight was yolk lipid. This value did not vary through the laying sequence in either year. Egg weight was strongly correlated with egg size and the total amount of water in the egg. The weight and protein content of the dry yolk were positively correlated with an index of female body condition.
10.2307/1521310|We studied the degree to which food availability varies from year to year for breeding Common Terns (Sterna hirundo). The phenology of prey peaks varies yearly, and prey do not reach uniformly high levels in all years. When variation in adult terns' prey capture rate was examined separately for each stage of the reproductive season, inter-year variability was lowest among incubation periods and greatest among post-fledgling periods.
10.2307/1520963|Adult Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) were captured during incubation in a colony in mediterranean France, and equipped with radio transmitters. One bird was followed to its feeding grounds throughout the period it was feeding nestlings, while other egrets were followed less intensively. The diet fed to the nestlings of study birds was determined by collection of regurgitates. Prey density was estimated in the feeding areas by trawl samples, which gave indices of prey abundance. The main study egret fed principally in two marshes about 2 km from the colony and switched between these two marshes according to changes in prey density. It first started feeding in a marsh northeast of the colony when carp hatchlings appeared there; and these formed most of its diet. When the carp density decreased significantly three days later it switched gradually to a marsh south of the colony where it fed on Notonecta, which had grown to a suitable size. This marsh was abandoned when it finally dried out, and the egret then moved back to the north-east marsh. During switches between marshes this bird briefly visited several other potential feeding sites.
10.2307/1521862|Increasing populations of Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) in the Great Lakes region and early arrival of gulls at breeding sites results in gradual usurpation of Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) colony sites where the two species are sympatric. Ring-billed Gulls also may compete for breeding space with Piping Plovers (Charadrius melodus). We tested several gull deterrent designs consisting of elevated lines of nylon string, wire, or monofilament at the traditional Common Tern and Piping Plover breeding sites in Minnesota to determine whether Ring-billed Gulls could be excluded from the sites while minimizing entanglements of other species. Our results were mixed. Use of brightly colored nylon strings was very effective at preventing Ring-billed Gulls from occupying their breeding sites at small or new colonies, but not at large, dense colonies having a prior history of successful breeding. Visible wires were ineffective at deterring gull use at a large colony site. Monofilament was an effective Ring-billed Gull deterrent at a small colony site although it was slightly less effective than nylon string. However, where Caspian Terns (S. caspia) were also present, they were quite vulnerable to entanglement in monofilament. No birds became entangled in wires and relatively few were entangled in nylon strings spaced at least 1.2 m apart. No Piping Plovers became entangled. Common Terns and Piping Plovers were not visibly deterred from nesting and chick rearing by the elevated lines. Of the three materials tested, we believe that brightly colored nylon string shows the most promise as a Ring-billed Gull deterrent, particularly at smaller colonies and/or where potential bird entanglements are a concern.
10.2307/1521906|The Bulwer's Petrel (Bulweria bulwerii) colony on Deserta Grande, Madeira Archipelago, is one of the largest in the Atlantic Ocean. It was studied over six months in 1994 and 1995. Breeding occurs from mid April to early October, as in other colonies in the Atlantic (Azores and Canary islands) and Pacific Ocean (Manana Island and Johnston Atoll). At Desertas, the breeding chronology is characterized by synchrony both within and between pairs. Synchrony within a pair affected breeding success, mainly during the laying period and incubation; pairs with both mates present on the laying night and with well-defined incubation shifts had higher hatching success. Parental performance in relation to nest choice and preparation also influenced hatching success. Breeding success of 74% was similar to that found in Pacific colonies. Both sexes left the colony on a pre-laying exodus averaging 28 days. The exodus and the long, well-defined shift system suggest a scarcity of food near Desertas. Data from other colonies are needed for comparison. Nestling growth was typical of Procellariiformes. The bill and tarsus were more developed than the wings at hatching and achieved maximum dimensions within 73% and 84% of the nestling period, while the wings continued to develop until fledging. Body mass achieved 181% of the adult weight, similar to values found on the Pacific Ocean and comparable to values for some Hydrobatidae. Fledging weight was lower on Desertas than on Manana Island.
10.2307/1521477|We conducted weekly aerial surveys of wading birds of several species from a fixed-wing aircraft along the coastal salt marsh of Aransas and Matagorda Island National Wildlife Refuges on the Texas coast. Habitats used by wading birds were broadly classified as vegetation and open water habitats. Open water categories included, in order of increasing surface area, pools, ponds, lakes, and bays. Other open water habitats present included cuts and inlets. The five most common species observed included, Great Egret (Casmerodius albus, N = 720), Great Blue Heron on (Ardea herodias, N = 561), Reddish Egret (Egretta rufescens, N = 121), Snowy Egret (E. thula, N = 60), and Tricolored Heron (E. tricolor, N = 37). The vast majority of individuals of all species were observed in open water habitats as opposed to vegetated areas. Lake was the most common habitat utilized by waders with >20% of individuals of all species observed in this habitat. Overall patterns of habitat use were significantly different ( <sup>2</sup><sub>16</sub> = 259.5, P < 0.001) among species. Great Blue Heron, Great Egret, Reddish Egret, Snowy Egret, and Tricolored Heron all differed significantly (P < 0.001) in use of different open water habitat categories. Specific overlap indicies show Great Egret-Tricolored Heron to overlap completely (0.99) in habitat use patterns. High overlap occurred between the following species pairs: Reddish Egret-Great Egret (0.87), Reddish Egret-Tricolored Heron (0.86), and Great Blue Heron-Snowy Egret (0.87). Other species pairs showed little overlap in habitat use patterns.
10.2307/1521919|Least Bitterns (Ixobrychus exilis) nesting in an impounded cattail (Typha spp.) marsh in South Carolina were studied over seven years (1985-1991). The bitterns nested at high densities (12 pairs ha<sup>-1</sup> of vegetated habitat). Most pairs nested in groups of two to fifteen, often in colonies of Boat-tailed Grackles (Quiscalus major). Most bitterns began nesting in mid-April, and the nesting period averaged 83 days. Reproductive success (percentage of nests that produced fledglings) was 55%, only slightly lower than that reported from studies conducted in natural cattail marshes. Mean clutch size was 3.8, and an average of 2.7 young left the nest. Most mortality to eggs and young was caused by nest instability. Diurnal avian predators were uncommon, and were usually excluded from the nesting areas by the mobbing of Boat-tailed Gracklcs. Terrestrial predators also were seldom found in the marsh, apparently due to the presence of American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis). The bitterns nested on cattail islands surrounded by open water. Nests were built near the edges of the islands, in cattail stands that had about equal proportions of dead and green vegetation. The Least Bittern is declining in parts of its range, due to loss of natural freshwater marshes. The results of this study demonstrate that this species adapts to man-made marsh habitat, which may be provided as an alternative to natural freshwater marsh habitat. The favorable reproductive output of Least Bitterns occupying managed habitat is cause for optimism for this species' future.
10.2307/1521081|Social signals of Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) at foraging areas were described and compared with those found at nesting areas by other researchers. The only Great Blue Heron display at foraging areas that was not also given at the nest was the Spread-wings display. This display, however, appears closely related in form to the Stretch, which is given only near the nest. The dance-like appearance and infrequency (generally less than 0.5/h) of the agonistic Spread-wings display make it likely that it has been previously described mistakenly as the controversial and vague "Gathering Ground Dance," which supposedly involved courtship. Herons foraging territorially signalled their presence by a combination of defense of an area (e.g., with pursuit flights and supplanting), border displays (i.e., Spread-wings and Upright displays), and advertisement through Arched Neck and Circle Flight displays, often with a Roh-roh-roh Call.
10.2307/1521899|Nearly all North American heron populations are migratory, but details of where they winter are little known. Locations where North American herons winter were identified using banding recovery data. North American herons winter from Canada through northern South America but especially in eastern North America south of New York, Florida, California, Louisiana, Texas, Mexico and Cuba, these areas accounting for 63% of winter recoveries. We identified regions where recoveries for various species clustered as "key areas." These forty-three areas constitute a network of areas that hold sites that likely are important to wintering North American herons. Within each area, we identify specific sites that are potentially important to wintering herons. The relative importance of each area and site within the network must be evaluated by further on the ground inventory. Because of biases inherent in the available data, these hypothesized key areas are indicative rather than exhaustive. As a first cut, this network of areas can serve to inform further inventory activities and can provide an initial basis to begin planning for the year-round conservation of North American heron populations.
10.2307/1521216|As part of a combined wetlands restoration/sediment control project completed in November 1982, 16.5 hectares of lower intertidal habitat were created in the Upper Newport Bay Ecological Reserve, California, USA. Following completion of the project, the restored area was included in an ongoing shorebird and waterfowl censusing program at the reserve. Censuses were conducted at low tide between November 1982 and March 1985. In the three years following the project, use of the restored area increased gradually. Use by shorebirds differed seasonally from that observed in the remainder of the Upper Bay. Highest use was recorded in late summer and early fall. During the third year, use appeared to be extending later into the year. After three years shorebird use had not reached levels encountered on natural mudflats within the Upper Bay. Species use of the restored area differed. The project affected both non-breeding and resident water-associated birds.
10.2307/1521076|Breeding chronology, hatching and fledging statistics were obtained for Sooty Tern (Sterna fuscata, n = 109), Brown Noddy (Anous stolidus, n = 125), Brown Booby (Sula leucogaster, n = 38) and Laughing Gull (Larus atricilla, n = 187) pairs nesting on Little Tobago, Trinidad in 1975-1976. Breeding of Sooty Terns, Brown Noddies and Laughing Gulls occurred during the "dry" season from January to June; Brown Boobies had two egg-laying peaks in January and July. In all species, the number of eggs that failed to hatch exceeded the number that hatched; the primary loss factor was eggs that disappeared. All Sooty Tern and most Brown Noddy chicks disappeared early in the brooding period. Commercial fish-catch data provide indirect evidence that tern parents deserted their eggs and chicks because of poor food availability. The disappearance of Brown Booby chicks older than 35 days of age is attributed to poaching activity.
10.2307/1521015| During 1983-1984, an aerial census of the nesting population of the Scarlet Ibis (Eudocimus ruber) was conducted in the Venezuelan Llanos. As a result of the flights, 22 colonies were located in 1983, containing 64,439 pairs. In 1984, the number of observed colonies decreased to 7 containing 42,236 nesting pairs. These results are compared with earlier data from the literature; we conclude that a reduction of the nesting area of this species has occurred during recent years. /// Durante los aos 1983 y 1984 se realiz un censo areo de la poblacin nidificante del corocoro rojo (E. ruber) en los Llanos de Venezuela. Como resultado de los vuelos, en 1983 se localizaron 22 colonias con un total de 64.439 parejas. En 1984 el nmero de colonias observadas descendi a 7 con 42.236 parejas. Estos resultados se comparan con datos bibliogrficos anteriores y se concluye que ha habido una reduccin en el rea de nidificacin de esta especie a lo largo de los ltimos aos. 
10.2307/1521617|In the northern Great Plains, cattails (Typha spp.) have overgrown many wetlands, contributing to a decline in numbers of Black Terns (Chlidonias niger). Since 1991, wildlife agencies have applied glyphosate-based herbicide to cattail-dominated wetlands with the objectives of increasing duck (Anatinae) abundance and reducing crop-depredating blackbird (Icterinae) populations. In 1990 and 1991, we aerially applied glyphosate-based herbicide to cattail-dominated wetlands in North Dakota to assess the influence of habitat changes on birds. Numbers of Black Terns and selected ducks species were positively correlated with open water and dead cattails ( r<sub>17</sub> range: 0.77-0.46); whereas, blackbird numbers were positively related with live cattails ( r<sub>17</sub> range: 0.52-0.48). Black Tern numbers were positively related ( r<sub>17</sub> range: 0.76-0.49) to numbers of Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), Blue-winged Teal (A. discolor), Redheads (Aythya americana), and Yellow-headed Blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus), suggesting some common habitat requirements among these species. Cattail management programs designed specifically to enhance duck use and decrease Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) numbers probably benefit Black Terns.
10.2307/1521443|Short-tailed Albatross (Diomedea albatrus), once a widespread North Pacific species, currently has a population of approximately 400 birds (Hasegawa in Amaral 1988). This note reports an unusual pelagic sighting of 14 Short-tailed Albatrosses on 7 September 1990 in the Bering Sea. Three additional sightings of individual birds from June to September 1990 are also reported.
10.2307/1521560| Double-brooding is not common in the Laridae. Only three species in this family have been reported to double-brood: Silver Gull (Larus novaehollandiae), Common Black-headed Gull (Larus ridibundus), and Common Tern (Sterna hirundo). I present seven instances of double-brooding by Common Terns at Oneida Lake, New York, in 1988 and 1989. Ten chicks hatched from six of the second broods, and six of them survived  10 days. The higher frequency of double-brooding in 1988 may have been due to abundant food supply and fair weather. Each double-brooded pair except one had their second brood on a different island than their first brood. I think this is because vegetation on the first island became tall and dense, and was not suitable for nesting late in the breeding season. My results support the idea that double-brooding may be a viable reproductive strategy for Common Terns. 
10.2307/1521529|The Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) was extirpated from New England after settlement by Europeans, reportedly becoming re-established as a nesting species in Maine about 1925. Breeding cormorants increased rapidly in Maine between 1925 and 1945 and again between the 1970s and the mid 1980s. Currently, cormorants nesting in coastal Maine may be approaching carrying capacity as the rate of population growth has declined and birds have begun nesting inland. Breeding cormorants apparently became established in Massachusetts in the late 1930s and, during the last twenty years, have increased rapidly in coastal New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut (i.e., southern New England). Between 1977 and the early 1990s, the rate of increase of cormorants nesting in southern New England increased more than five times faster than in Maine. Southern New England may have more limited suitable nesting habitat than does northern New England, and as cormorants are better protected today than earlier, the time required to reach carrying capacity for breeders in southern New England should be less than in Maine. Concurrent with the increase in numbers of breeding cormorants in coastal Maine, there have been repeated reports of conflicts between these birds and fishing interests. Concerns from the 1930s to 1950s focused on marine fisheries. In response, almost 188,000 cormorant eggs were sprayed with oil between 1944 and 1953. Spraying failed to reduce the breeding population and the practice was discontinued. In the 1960s, state and Federal agencies began an intensified program to restore the Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) to New England. Cormorants were documented eating substantial numbers of hatchery-reared smolts in the mid-1960s in eastern Maine and in the mid 1980s in central Maine. These findings prompted the shooting of hundreds of birds annually. Since 1972, when cormorants came under Federal protection, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has annually issued a master permit to the State of Maine, which in turn has issued subpermits to wardens and the public to collect cormorants along salmon rivers. Currently, Federal and State management authorities are cooperating on a study of cormorant ecology in the Penobscot River-upper Penobscot Bay ecosystem. In southern New England, conflicts between cormorants and fisheries are also being reported, with at least one state contemplating a food-habits study. The effectiveness of past cormorant management in Maine and the information needed to improve management are discussed.
10.2307/1521702| Area Vulnerability Scores (AVSs) are a measure of the potential impact that oil pollution in an area of sea might have on seabird populations. They are used in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland as a conservation tool, principally to inform the decision making processes related to the licensing of oil exploration at sea and to responses to oil pollution incidents. AVSs are currently calculated and mapped at a scale of 15' latitude  30' longitude grid squares. Patterns of seabird distribution are known to be scale dependent and the same is also true for oil pollution. This suggests that the physical interactions between oil pollution and seabirds may also be dependent on spatial scale. We consider the sensitivity to spatial scale of the vulnerability that is determined by the interactions between oil pollution and seabirds and examine the scale dependent variation in vulnerability, as defined by AVS. The results demonstrate scale dependence in AVS and some features of its spatial distribution. These are decreasing heterogeneity in AVS with increasing spatial scale, and the presence of some spatial structure at a scale 20-30 km which could not be detected when estimating AVS at larger scales. These patterns in vulnerability are a consequence of scale dependence in the spatial distribution of seabird density. In addition an increase in scale resulted in a tendency to overestimate AVS which also lead to an apparent expansion in size of the higher vulnerabilities such as those around the coast. These results were an artifact of the calculation of AVS. The results of this study have implications for the way in which we use AVS and other similar measures to assess vulnerability. They suggest that calculation of AVS should be done on a fine spatial scale, however, bird density data are not available at the appropriate spatial resolution without combining data over an extended temporal scale which runs the risk of distorting the spatial patterns. These effects may be mitigated by calculating AVS on a spatially stratified basis, at high resolution in the areas of high density and coverage, and at low resolution in areas of low densities and low coverage. 
10.2307/1521322|Activity patterns of Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis) have previously appeared to be exclusively diurnal. We report on incidental observations of nocturnal activity in this species at the Chacopata lagoon complex in northeastern Venezuela, during a study of night-feeding in shorebirds and other waterbirds. As the nocturnal presence of Brown Pelicans over our study area was noted on only three of 102 observation periods, the activity pattern of the species at Chacopata, as elsewhere, was clearly diurnal.
10.2307/1521910|We report cases of death in adult King Penguins (Aptenodytes patagonicus) hyperinfested by the tick Ixodes uriae. The distribution and level of infestation by ticks were assessed by skin samples of body parts. The preferred feeding sites on the host were the head and the neck for adult and nymph ticks, and the lower parts for larvae. King Penguins carried up to 263 adults, 548 nymphs, or 3,500 larvae. We have been able to estimate the amount of blood loss in King Penguins during the incubation shift. These results are discussed in relation to the breeding behavior of this colonial waterbird.
10.2307/1521694|We present the first information on waterbirds, especially breeding marine birds, from 3 islands of d'Entrecasteaux Reefs (Surprise, Fabre and Huon), northern New Caledonia, southwestern Pacific. Using different sampling and counting techniques, we recorded 20 waterbird species: 14 were seabirds, of the 23 known to breed in the New Caledonian region. The most significant seabird populations include large colonies of Red-footed Booby (Sula sula rubripes) on Surprise, Sooty Tern (Sterna fuscata serrata) and Black Noddy (Anous tenuirostris minutus) on Fabre, and Brown Noddy (A. stolidus) on Huon. Results of population estimates are discussed in terms of methodology and compared with those obtained from previous expeditions. Overall, the species community has been stable over the last 10 years, although variations in numbers may be difficult to assess as there are no reliable counting methods. We discuss counting techniques in order to improve future monitoring of seabird populations of tropical islets that are seldom visited.
10.2307/1521869| In September 1993 and January and April 1994, we studied the prevalence of salmonellas in the soil of an island of a colony of the Common Black-headed Gull Larus ridibundus at a group of ponds near Hodonn, Czech Republic. Fourteen strains of Salmonella typhimurium, one strain of S. derby and one strain of S. bareilly were identified in a total of 64 soil samples. Salmonellas were demonstrated on all three sampling dates, although their prevalence in April 1994, i.e., at the time when gulls in the colony already had eggs, was low. Salmonellas survived in the soil of the colony throughout the period between nestings. 
10.2307/1521179|Since at least 1985 Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) have colonized man-made lakes in the interior of the Southeast. The first breeding record for South Carolina was established in 1985, and by 1987, three colonies had 115 pairs. In contrast, coastal colonies in North Carolina have decreased, and the species has not yet nested on the coast in southern North Carolina, Georgia or South Carolina. It is possible that the distribution of the cormorant is related to Fish Crow (Corvus ossifragus) abundance. The subspecies involved in the range expansion is not readily assignable to either P a. auritus or P a. floridanus.
10.2307/1521406|Three Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) nests, each containing seven eggs, were discovered at two Caribbean colony sites in 1994. These supernormal clutches are the largest yet reported for Roseate Terns anywhere in the world. Two clutches were located at the same colony in Puerto Rico and were approximately 5 m apart, whereas the third was discovered in the British Virgin Islands. We argue that the two supernormal clutches in Puerto Rico resulted from intraspecific brood parasitism, and provide evidence against possible alternative explanations.
10.2307/1521590| The Mascarene Petrel Pseudobulweria aterrima is one of the least-known petrels. Together with the discovery and description of a third specimen for the twentieth century, we provide the first information on its identification at sea, as well as its distribution south of Runion Island. We also estimate the current population size at sea at ca. 1,000 birds, which suggests a current breeding population of 250 pairs, perhaps less. 
10.2307/1521220|A primary use of wetlands in North America is their management for hunted waterfowl. Other wetland systems are managed for various purposes, or are not consistently managed at all. Recent studies on wetland use by birds demonstrate forcefully that wetlands of all sorts are valuable habitat, including small and isolated wetlands that are actively managed for other purposes. Even the great wetlands such as the Everglades and Llanos will require increasing amounts of active management to retain their value as avian habitat. The importance of small wetlands is well demonstrated in Europe and needs to be better appreciated in North America. Such wetlands may be crucial for some regional bird populations even if used intermittently. Maintenance of avian populations in wetlands will require research on the responses of bird populations to management and also the institution of active management to achieve specific goals, in which birds should figure prominently.
10.2307/1521188| Breeding biology of the Little Egret Egretta garzetta was investigated at 12 nests in the Nara heronry in 1976 and at 47 nests in the Mie heronry in 1977. In all, 13 nests were observed directly in detail over a total of 87 nest-days. Egg-laying intervals averaged 37h and mean clutch size was 4.86 (range 4-7). Incubation began with laying of the first egg and reached "full incubation" (more than 80% of the time) after the laying of the second or third egg. The mean hatching intervals increased with laying order, approaching the mean laying interval for the final two chicks. The growth and survival rates of a-, b-, and c-chicks were similar to each other, but higher than those of d-chicks. Rates for e-chicks were extremely low. While on the nest with young (x = 175 min), parents regurgitated an average of 7.3 food boluses. Within a few days after hatching, nestlings changed their food-receiving behavior from pecking at a bolus regurgitated on the nest floor ("indirect" feeding type) to catching it directly from the parent's beak ("direct" feeding type). When two siblings competed for a particular "direct" bolus, the elder sib obtained it on 63.4% of 175 occasions. However, younger sibs commonly obtained food without competition after the older sibling was satiated. 
10.2307/1521150|Recent authors have overlooked several reports of non-yellow irides in the Botaurus bitterns. These are summarized and a recent specimen of B. pinnatus with a bright Cinnamon-rufous iris is described. Non-yellow irides in these species appear to be the result of a very transitory change which I hypothesize to be related to courtship.
10.2307/1521513|Smith (1991) asserts the validity of his earlier conclusions from his arctic fieldwork and the authenticity of his 1961 research in Home Bay on Baffin Island, Canada. However, analyses of research itineraries and the logistics of conducting Smith's parallel studies of Larus gulls and Charadrius plovers indicate that there was insufficient time, in summer 1961, for Smith to have completed his experimental protocols. I conclude that an unknown amount of Smith's (1963, 1966a,b, 1967a,b, 1969) results are invalid.
10.2307/1521324|Two distinct variants of juvenile Dovekie plumage are described. "Summer" type plumage is similar to the breeding plumage of adults. "White bib" plumage is characterized by the presence of a white patch on the throat and is intermediate in pattern between the "summer" and "winter" dress. An average of 10% of all chicks examined during four breeding seasons on Spitsbergen belonged to "white bib" variety. White bib chicks were found throughout the study area, but never at the same nest location in successive years. There were no differences in growth parameters or phenology between the two morphs.
10.2307/1521461|Diving behavior of Black Guillemots (Cepphus grylle) was investigated in northeastern Hudson Bay by visually tracking birds from the colony to foraging sites where diving events were timed. Median dive times, post-dive pauses, and dive:pause ratios were 73 s, 27.5 s, and 2.2, respectively. During dive bouts, guillemots spent 69% of their time underwater. Pause time increased with dive time in dives up to ca. 100 s; longer records may have been artefacts of missed surface intervals. Median water depth at dive sites was 22.5 m. Dive duration increased with water depth. Assuming a 1 m s<sup>-1</sup> ascent and descent rate, the median potential bottom time was 33 s per dive. Black Guillemots appear to be competent divers compared with other seabirds, and their failure to exploit dense concentrations of pelagic prey in deep water is likely due to interspecific competition rather than to limitations of diving ability.
10.2307/1521236|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) collected in the Houston Ship Channel, Texas, USA, in November shortly after their fall migration contained residues of several industrial, agricultural, and petroleum contaminants including polychlorinated styrenes (PCS's), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's), DDE, and petroleum hydrocarbons. PCS concentrations in over-wintering birds collected in late February were three times higher than those in birds collected in November. PCB and petroleum concentrations remained at about the same level throughout the 3-month winter period. Petroleum hydrocarbons were present in all cormorants and residues in some individuals exceeded 25 ppm (wet weight). Mean DDE residues in samples collected in November and February were less than 1 ppm. Low concentrations of five other organochlorine compounds, not detected in cormorants collected in November, were recovered in birds collected in February. The frequency of occurrence of dieldrin and HCB increased from November to February although maximum levels remained below 0.3 ppm. All cormorants collected in fall had moderate amounts of fat, but only 3 of 10 birds collected in spring had similar fat reserves.
10.2307/1521951|The Dnestr Delta, situated on the northwest coast of the Black Sea, supports internationally important breeding populations of Great Cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo), herons and egrets (Ardeidae) and Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus). In addition, small numbers of the vulnerable Pygmy Cormorant (Phalacrocorax pygmeus) also nest. Eight colonial species are regular breeders in the delta, the Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) and the Great Cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo) being the most numerous. These colonies have been monitored for the past 22 years (1972-1993). During this period the total number of breeding pairs of all eight species varied between 2,700 to 4,800. The hydrology of the delta is a key determinant of fluctuations in the breeding populations. Numbers of breeding herons, egrets and ibises tend to increase with high river discharge. The great majority of the colonies are located in the central floodplain of the delta. Those situated in the upper part of the delta, where the water level sometimes reaches a height of 2 m, are in high trees. In the much wider, central part, where flooding is less intensive, the birds nest in low willows (Salix cinerea) and sometimes in reedbeds (Phragmites australis). The extensive reedbeds in the lower part near the coast are major nesting habitats for Great Egrets (Casmerodius albus) and Purple Herons (Ardea purpurea).
10.2307/1520968|Although Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) habitually feed in flocks over open water, some pairs defend exclusive territories along shorelines up to 11 km from breeding colonies. The importance of territorial feeding varies greatly from colony to colony, depending on local factors that determine the relative profitability of solitary and flock feeding. Territory owners are much more successful in catching fish than are intruders into their territories. Territorial feeding is economically advantageous at colonies where suitable shorelines are available, and increases the range of prey species that can be exploited at such colonies.
10.2307/1521149|Four species of alcids have now been recorded from Hawaii. Two of them, the Tufted Puffin (Fratercula cirrhata) and the Cassin's Auklet (Ptychoramphus aleuticus), have been found only once; the occurrence of the latter is reported here for the first time. Two other alcids, the Horned Puffin (Fratercula arctica) and the Parakeet Auklet (Cyclorrhynchus psittacula) have been recorded from Hawaii in greater numbers; the latter may be of regular occurrence in subtropical waters near the northwestern portion of the Hawaiian archipelago. Occurrence in Hawaii does not appear to be strongly related to size of populations to the north but instead to the extent to which the species are known to disperse.
10.2307/1521860| Mixed-species foraging flocks of wading birds were studied between February and April 1990 in the southern llanos of Venezuela to document the occurrence and significance of kleptoparasitism. Intra- and interspecific food robbery was a very common behavior during the late dry season, when most of the land was dry and wading birds concentrated in dense aggregations around ponds and lagoons that still had enough water to sustain fish populations. A total of 15 species of wading birds formed these foraging aggregations including three Ciconiidae, six Ardeidae and six Threskiornithidae. Seven of these species were occasionally involved in prey-robbing attempts, with a 51.5% overall success rate. The Jabiru Stork (Jabiru mycteria), the Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) and the Cocoi Heron (Ardea cocoi) were more frequently associated with kleptoparasitic behaviors. /// Se estudiaron las bandadas mixtas de aves ciconiiformes entre febrero y abril de 1990 en los llanos inundables de Venezuela para documentar la existencia e importancia del cleptoparasitismo. El robo de presas intra- e interespecfico result ser un comportamiento muy comn durante la poca de sequa, cuando la mayor parte del territorio se encontraba seco y las aves ciconiiformes se concentraban alrededor de las escasas charcas y lagunas que todava tenan suficiente agua para mantener poblaciones de peces. Un total de 15 especies de aves ciconiiformes formaban parte de estas agregaciones, incluyendo tres Ciconiidae, seis Ardeidae y seis Threskiornithidae. Siete de estas especies estuvieron, en alguna ocasin, implicadas en tentativas de robo de presas, con un 51.5% de efectividad global. El Garzn Soldado (Jabiru mycteria), el Gabn (Mycteria americana) y la Garza Morena (Ardea cocoi) fueron las especies ms frecuentemente asociadas con los comportamientos de cleptoparasitismo. 
10.2307/1521520|The Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) has a wider range in North America than any of the five other breeding cormorants and is the only species to occur extensively in the interior as well as on the coasts. Breeding birds are currently known in 40 of the 50 States of the United States, all 10 Canadian Provinces, and in Mexico, Cuba and the Bahamas. There are six more-or-less distinct populations, and five subspecies have been described but their significance is unclear because measurements overlap substantially and the distributions of crest characters are poorly known. Scattered archeological and historical accounts indicate that numbers in the Interior and Atlantic populations declined during the 19th century, and subsequent increases have been facilitated, but not fully explained, by dam-building and by declines in persecution. Numbers increased from the 1920s into the 1950s when pesticides had major impacts. The Interior populations fell to low points about 1970 and the Atlantic population ceased growing. The species was recognized as of "Special Concern" in several states during this period. For the past 20 years numbers have been increasing rapidly in most areas, although information on non-breeding birds is very sparse. Particularly large increases are reported for the subspecies auritus, both the Interior population centered in the Canadian Prairie Provinces and Great Lakes (220,000 pairs) and the Atlantic population on the Northeast Coast (96,000 pairs). These birds migrate to winter in the South, chiefly in coastal areas from Texas to North Carolina, where there is considerable overlap of birds from diverse breeding areas. The numbers of the resident populations in Florida and the Caribbean comprising subspecies floridanus and heuretus (14,000 pairs) are poorly known and are probably declining. The status of the small population in Alaska (cincinatus) (3,000 pairs) is not known. On the West Coast (albociliatus) (31,000 pairs) the numbers in Canada and the United States are increasing rapidly, but the status of Mexican populations is unclear. The migrations of the populations in the Pacific are not well characterized.
10.2307/1521152|In both 1984 and 1985 Masked Boobies (Sula dactylatra) attempted to nest on sandy islets at the Dry Tortugas, Florida. Nesting attempts failed because the nest sites were washed away by summer storms. It seems likely that this species will eventually nest there successfully and will establish a small breeding population. This is the first documented nesting by this species in the contiguous United States.
10.2307/1521598| White-faced Ibis (Plegadis chihi) eggs collected in 1996 at Carson Lake, Nevada, showed no decrease in p,p-DDE (DDE) concentrations from levels in 1985 and 1986 which is contrary to DDE patterns shown for most avian species. An estimated 40-45% of the population was adversely affected by DDE in 1985, 1986, and 1996 with a probable net loss of about 20% of the expected productivity. One segment of the nesting population at Carson Lake in 1996 averaged 18.3% eggshell thinning, although the mean for the whole population is not known. Obvious population declines of White-faced Ibis have not been reported, although quantitative population data are incomplete; however, the excellent and predictable food sources on the breeding grounds in Nevada (due to flood irrigation by farmers) appear to contribute to a high reproductive potential. While adverse consequences of DDE were not documented at the population level, it is important to locate the source(s) of the DDE/p,p-DDT (DDT). Results of a previous study showed that prey from the breeding grounds were not contaminated with DDE/DDT. The White-faced Ibis DDE/DDT loads are suspected to originate from localized areas on the wintering grounds and/or staging areas. Use of satellite transmitters placed on nesting birds is proposed to locate the source of the DDE/DDT. 
10.2307/1521553|From 1987-1989, I used ground measurements and aerial photography of marked colonies to describe and study the selection of 12 colony sites on nine Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis) breeding wetlands in Minnesota. Colonies were located in moderately dense to sparse green or dead emergent vegetation or on surface mats of filamentous green algae or submerged aquatic macrophytes. All colony sites were near open water or channels and two were near larid colonies. Wave action generated by high winds destroyed seven of 15 colonies (44% of 2370 nests) marked or examined in this study. Nest predation, almost exclusively by American Coots (Fulica americana), was low (< 3% in any colony). Distance from shore (0.09 to 1.5 km) seemed a compromise between terrestrial predator pressure and higher waves associated with a deeper, less vegetated wetland center. Mean water depth at the colony sites ranged from 50 to 120 cm; one colony may have abandoned its nests when water depths became too shallow-while another colony site was in the deepest water available on a wetland during a drought year.
10.2307/1520976|This is a report of a workshop on tern populations in northeastern North America. Eighteen regional reports summarize data on numbers, trends, and productivity of 10 species of terns in the Great Lakes, the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and the Atlantic coast from Newfoundland south to Virginia. Although census techniques have varied in accuracy and comprehensiveness, the data permit the following estimates of tern populations in this area: Gull-billed Tern (Sterna nilotica), less than 1000 pairs; Caspian Tern (S. caspia), 4250 pairs; Royal Tern (S. maxima), 3000-4000 pairs; Sandwich Tern (S. sandvicensis), less than 20 pairs; Roseate Tern (S. dougallii), 3100 pairs; Common Tern (S. hirundo), 70-75,000 pairs; Arctic Tern (S. paradisaea), 5-6000 pairs (excluding Newfoundland); Forster's Tern (S. forsteri), 3100 pairs; Least Tern (S. antillarum), 7000-7500 pairs; Black Tern (Chlidonias niger), no estimate possible. Recently, Arctic and Gull-billed Terns have decreased, whereas Caspian, Forster's, Roseate, and (at least locally) Common, and Least Terns have increased. Data on breeding success are available for six species. Adverse factors include occupation of nesting habitat by gulls, human disturbance and development, predation, and flooding. Loss of nesting habitat due to these factors has left sub-optimal or man-made habitat such as salt marshes, dredged spoil islands, structures, and roofs of buildings. For several species, a large fraction of the population now nests on sites that are publicly owned, managed, or protected. Despite some recent population increases, most species still remain far below numbers of 40 years ago. Continued management and protection will be necessary to maintain suitable sites for current populations.
10.2307/1521864|In 1983, 353 Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) chicks from known-aged parents were banded at Bird Island, Massachusetts, USA. Between 1986 and 1995, 18 of these birds were found breeding at Bird Island and three at other sites. There were no significant differences in brood order, hatching date, or parental age between the birds that were encountered breeding and the birds that were not re-encountered. Although the small number of birds retrapped limited the power of the study to detect differences, these data show no discernible influence of parental age or other natal characteristics on survival between fledging and recruitment into the breeding population.
10.2307/1521350| The nesting population, habitat selection, and reproductive success of American Black Oystercatchers (Haematopus ostralegus bachmani), and their relationship with nesting Glaucous-winged Gulls (Larus glaucescens) was examined at Skidegate Inlet in the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia. Nesting densities (1.6 pairs/km shoreline) were higher, and a larger proportion of islands in Skidegate Inlet (28%) supported nesting oystercatchers than in three southern locations in British Columbia. Fifty-three pairs of oystercatchers produced 81 clutches with an average clutch size of 2.26  0.43 eggs. The clutch size declined significantly over the nesting season. Overall hatching success was 38.3% and the fledging rate was 0.49 fledglings per pair. The fledging rate was significantly higher for oystercatchers nesting on islands with gulls than those on islands without gulls. Oystercatchers nested in equal proportions on small nesting islands which either connected to, or were separated from large islands at low tide, but they hatched significantly fewer eggs on the former than on the latter; large islands contained raccoons (Procyon lotor), which preyed upon the birds' eggs. Oystercatchers and gulls were significantly associated with one another, and the two species selected the same type of nesting islands, which were relatively small and supported little or no forest. The positive and negative aspects of gulls and oystercatchers nesting together are discussed. 
10.2307/1521501|I examined breeding success in the Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), and analyzed organochlorine residues in eggs collected during 1987 and 1988 in the Mexicali Valley, Baja California, Mexico. DDE was found in all 50 of the eggs (geometric mean 3.2 ppm ww); other organochlorines also were detected but at lower concentrations. Eggshell thickness was negatively correlated with DDE (N = 50, P < 0.01, r = -0.42), and with Aroclor 1260 (N = 40, P < 0.01, r = -0.51). The mean eggshell thickness in 1987-88 was 9.3% thinner than the mean for pre-1953 museum clutches, but 8.8% thicker than the mean for Cattle Egret eggshells collected in 1974 from the Salton Sea, California. The mean clutch size for 1988 was similar to that of the Salton Sea heronry in 1974, but 14% to 23% lower than the mean clutch size observed in Texas and the eastern United States. The productivity (number of young raised to three weeks of age per breeding adult) was 32% higher than for the Salton Sea area, but 34% to 58% lower than for Texas and Florida. Minor shell thinning and moderately low egg failures indicated that hatching success was probably not significantly affected by DDE or other organochlorines, thus, the relatively high nestling mortality observed in marked nests (49%) might be associated with unmeasured ecological factors rather than with high DDE levels.
10.2307/1521234|Characteristics and success of 77 Green-backed heron (Butorides striatus) nests were studied in two different freshwater wetlands, an Ozark stream ecosystem, and a Mississippi River floodplain wetland. Physical nest site characteristics were similar between the two areas, but herons nested only in loose aggregations in the Mississippi floodplain wetland, whereas they nested both in loose aggregations and solitarily along the Ozark stream. Clutch sizes were similar between the two areas. Nest success was higher in the Mississippi floodplain wetland, but this difference was not caused by a lower success rate among solitary nesting herons along the Ozark stream area. We propose that the degree of sociality during nesting may be related to the distribution of food resources.
10.2307/1521362|Frigatebirds are known predators of sea turtle hatchlings at several locations worldwide. At certain localities this predation might excerbate the already endangered status of these marine reptiles. French Frigate Shoals, Hawaii is where over 90% of all Hawaiian green turtle (Chelonia mydas) breeding occurs and is the site of a large Great Frigatebird (Fregata minor) colony. Frigatebird predation was not a factor in hatchling survival at this location. We found no evidence of green turtle hatchlings in the stomach contents of 200 Great Frigatebirds sampled during peak periods of hatchling emergence in 1988 and 1989.
10.2307/1521169|The nesting biology of Fork-tailed (Oceanodroma furcata) and Leach's Storm-Petrels (O. leucorhoa) was compared in a mixed colony in the Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia. Fork-tailed nests were deeper and more frequently beneath roots and logs than Leach's Storm-Petrels. Adult Fork-tailed arrived significantly earlier at the colony at night than Leach's Storm-Petrels in June/July, but not later during the nesting season. Differences in adult arrival between the species may relate to the presence of chicks and to the more inshore feeding habit of Fork-tailed than that of Leach's Storm-Petrels. Wing loading was significantly less and brood patches of Leach's refeathered much more rapidly than in Fork-tailed Storm-Petrels. Favorable wing loading saves energy expenditure and rapid refeathering of brood patches may reduce heat loss in Leach's as they nest late in the season when temperatures are low. Fork-tailed chicks fledged from the end of July to the beginning of September, while Leach's Storm-Petrels fledged mostly in October. Average fledging periods were 62 days for Fork-tailed, and 63 days for Leach's Storm-Petrels. Average peak and fledging weights for Fork-tailed were 87.2 and 60.5 g, and for Leach's were 73.8 and 53.0 g, respectively. Fledging success per hatched egg was 81% for Fork-tailed and 87% for Leach's Storm-Petrels. River otters (Lutra canadensis) were predators on adults and chicks. Tarsus length and development of primaries were useful in aging chicks, but body weights were not. Fork-tailed chicks were heavier than Leach's chicks at the same age, but when chick weight was expressed as percentage of adult weight, Leach's chicks were relatively heavier than Fork-tailed chicks. Heavier weights of Leach's chicks and fledglings in relation to adult weight may be an adaptation to cold weather and storms. Leach's chicks lost much weight during storms.
10.2307/1521486|We report two previously undescribed foraging techniques used by Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula) and Yellow-crowned Night-Herons (Nyctanassa violacea) to catch crawfish (Procambarus spp.). Snowy Egrets were selecting crawfish that had recently molted their shells and Yellow-crowned Night-Herons were targeting crawfish that were emerging from their burrows. These observations were conducted on commercial crawfish ponds near Catahoula, LA, USA.
10.2307/1521547|A short note to conclude this special publication on the biology, conservation and management of the Double-crested Cormorant in North America. The major accomplishment has been to bring all sides of the cormorant issue together (biologists, fish farmers, managers) to review opinions and the evidence on problems related to cormorants and human activity. General agreement was reached that the acquisition and wise use of knowledge remains the sole direction to attaining real solutions. The overall aim to provide an objective view of the nature of the conflict and possible remedies to resolve them was achieved, as was the establishment of lines of communication between the principal interest groups.
10.2307/1521360|The Old World species Egretta garzetta has been observed about 45 times in the Americas at widely separated locations. Numbers of sightings in the Americas are increasing annually. Individuals apparently migrate with Snowy Egrets, Egretta thula, between the Caribbean and northeastern North America. Presented here are analyses of the taxonomy and distribution of the species, identification, origin in the Americas, and seasonal distribution, with an annotated list of all known sightings in the Americas.
10.2307/1521907| We studied factors that may determine the annual variation in reproductive success of Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) at Cabo Vrgenes, Argentina during three breeding seasons (1989/90, 1990/91 and 1991/92). Six areas containing a total of approximately 150 active nests were established. Reproductive success, measured by the number of chicks fledged per active nest, was highly variable among years (0.83, 0.19 and 0.58). During the three seasons, the hatching and fledging weights, feeding frequency, number of chicks starved, chick growth rates and proportion of nests with two fledglings did not change significantly. However, nest desertion rates, nest predation and weather conditions (winds, minimum temperatures, storms and snowfalls) showed great variability among breeding seasons. Our results suggest that extremes in weather conditions at Cabo Vrgenes limit breeding success in penguins, causing high nest desertion rates and chick mortality. 
10.2307/1521656|We developed a method using Principal Components Analysis to determine the age of Gull-billed Tern (Sterna [Gelochelidon] nilotica) chicks, by measuring the lengths of the head and the wing, which reach maximum size at different ages. The method had an error of less than one day.
10.2307/1521608|The piscivorous nature of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) is well documented. However, many researchers who have used regurgitated pellets to describe the diet of cormorants report that invertebrates compose a small but consistent portion of the diet. We examined the hypothesis that invertebrates found in pellets are primarily the result of secondary consumption. We used odds ratio analysis to examine associations in 2,846 individual pellets between the presence of specific invertebrate prey and the presence of fish species known to consume those invertebrate taxa. Significant (P < 0.05) relationships occurred between gastropods and pumpkinseed (Lepomis gibbosus) and ictalurids, and between decapods and rock bass (Ambloplites rupestris) and smallmouth bass (Micropterus dolomieu). Significant (P < 0.05) relationships were also found between pelecypods and pumpkinseed and ictalurids. We suggest that the invertebrate prey we observed in pellets were present in the digestive tracts of fish that were consumed by Double-crested Cormorants and hence represent secondary consumption by cormorants. We conclude that consumption of invertebrates by Double-crested Cormorants may be overestimated in the literature in instances where the diet was described using pellets.
10.2307/1521606| Data on blood hematocrit levels were collected from free-living individuals of 4 species of North Atlantic seabirds. Blood oxygen storage capacity was high in relation to published data on other seabird species, with mean (SD) values of 54.8  6.1%, 55.3  5.4%, 57.9  9.3% and 54.9  8.3% for Common Murre (Uria aalge), Razorbill (Alca torda), Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) and Black-legged Kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla), respectively. Interspecific differences in hematocrit level were not associated with differences in foraging behavior. All external body surfaces of birds that were blood sampled were searched thoroughly for the tick Ixodes uriae. Levels of infestation varied significantly between the species and for the Black-legged Kittiwake (the most heavily infested species), hematocrit level was negatively and significantly related to tick load. 
10.2307/1521572|We compared several methods of estimating chick survival in the endangered Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) at two contrasting colonies. At Bird Island, Massachusetts, no chicks were taken by predators, but many dispersed into dense cover and could not be found. Chicks could not be fenced at this colony without danger of causing mortality. In these circumstances, the best estimates of chick survival were obtained by a detailed study that yielded individual estimates of survival probability, taking into account brood order and mass at last encounter. The number of chicks known to have reached the age of 5 days provided a reasonable estimate of the number that survived to fledging. At Cedar Beach, New York, chicks could be fenced into enclosures, but some escaped and others were taken by predators. In these circumstances, the best estimates of chick survival were obtained using experienced judgment, but these estimates were subject to errors that may have ranged up to 30%. Selection of sample plots for study within the large colony at Bird Island may have led to sampling errors of up to 10% in estimates of productivity. Similar issues are likely to arise in estimating chick survival and productivity in other colonial species, in circumstances where some chicks disperse or otherwise disappear before reaching fledging age. We recommend that future studies of productivity in colonial waterbirds should include measurement of spatial and temporal variability, and should attempt to estimate the magnitude of sampling errors.
10.2307/1521805|Two censuses of Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) colonies in Ontario were conducted for the periods 1976-81 and 1986-91 respectively. Volunteers determined the location, status and size of every colony within two census areas for both periods. Validation nest counts were conducted in 1990-91 to determine the proportion of total active nests in a colony reported by volunteers and staff. Correction factors were applied to all nest count data so all results from the different count types would be comparable. The total number of heron pairs within the census areas was determined. Information on 1,613 colonies across the province was collected from 1976-91, of which 48% had become extinct by 1991 and 67% had become established since 1976. The mean size of active colonies in the census areas for the two periods was not different. Within the census areas, a 98% increase in the number of active colonies and a 55% increase in the number of heron pairs was observed from 1976-91. This increase in Great Blue Heron numbers in Ontario follows similar demographic trends observed across North America.
10.2307/1521354|Giant petrels are the largest of the avian predator-scavengers in the Southern Ocean ecosystem. Analysis of 233 regurgitations from chicks at Marion Island shows that penguins are the most important component in the diet of both species. They also feed on seal carrion, burrowing petrels, fish and cephalopods. There were differences between male and female diets; in particular, female M. halli adults took larger proportions of fish and cephalopods. Male M. giganteus chicks were fed larger and more frequent meals than females, receiving 32% more food during the nestling period.
10.2307/1520983|We studied hatching success and early chick life of Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) nesting in vegetated and unvegetated habitats in a large colony in Massachusetts. We compared offspring survival in 1) nests in open habitats over which shelters were constructed, and 2) nests in vegetated habitats where nest cover was experimentally removed, with control nests in each habitat. Herring Gulls hatched more eggs in nests with cover (i.e. sheltered nests in open habitats and control nests in vegetated habitats), and chick survival was greater under shelters than it was in open habitats.
10.2307/1521576| Habitat used by Little Terns was studied from 1984 to 1986 in the Evros Delta, Thrace, northern Greece. The two types of major available habitat (coastal and saltmarsh) supported 10 and 12 colonies respectively. Coastal colonies were larger and more isolated from access to ground predators. Most nests in all colonies were close to water. Three substrates were used: sand (coastal), sand-mud and shells (saltmarsh). Except for one colony on sand, nest density was generally higher on shells and most nests were in low vegetation cover ( 40%, average 15%). Although predation and flooding varied yearly, their impact was generally greater in the coastal habitat. Five other colonial Charadriiformes species (Avocets, Collared Pratincoles, Common Terns, Gull-billed Terns and Mediterranean Gulls) nested in or close to a number of Little Tern colonies. None of the association coefficients were significant. 
10.2307/1521274| The ganglion cell layer (GCL) of the retina of the Magellanic penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus) was studied with light microscopy. The analysis of cell size and cell density allowed the characterization of different GCL regions. An elongate central area without fovea and with maximum cell maximum densities of 7,800-12,000 cells/ mm<sup>2</sup> was found in the most dorsal portion of the ventral hemiretina. Higher cell densities were found in the remaining portions of the ventral hemiretina than in the dorsal hemiretina. Since the number and density of cells in the GCL are directly related to visual acuity, we conclude that the Magellanic penguin has less visual acuity than the pigeon and the domestic chicken. However, the non-uniform distribution of the number and size classes of neurons reflects the presence of a topographical specialization of the retina that can be correlated with behavioral patterns of this species. /// La capa de clulas ganglionares (CCG) de la retina del pingino de Magallanes (Spheniscus magellanicus) fue estudiada con microscopa ptica. El anlisis de tamao y densidad celular permiti la caracterizacin de distintas regiones en la CCG. Se determin la presencia de un rea central de forma elongada, sin fovea y con densidades mximas de 7,800 a 12,000 clulas/ mm<sup>2</sup>, en la porcin ms dorsal de la hemiretina ventral pero sin fovea. An en las regiones no centrales, la densidad celular siempre fue mayor en la hemiretina ventral que en la dorsal. Como el nmero y densidad de las clulas de la CCG est directamente relacionado con la agudeza visual, podemos concluir que el pingino de Magallanes tiene menor agudeza visual que la paloma o la gallina domstica. Por otra parte, la distribucin no-uniforme del nmero y clases de tamao de las clulas de la CCG refleja la presencia de una especializacin topogrfica de la retina que puede ser correlacionada con patrones de comportamiento de esta especie. 
10.2307/1521038| Weight changes of 65 young Double-crested Cormorants from 32 broods in seven colonies were studied during the 1978 nesting season in the St. Lawrence estuary. The most rapid growth rates and largest weights were recorded in the oldest colonies, in the largest colonies and those where cormorants outnumbered gulls. The adults nesting in these colonies occupy nests that are generally larger and usually rear more young to fledging. They are probably dominant birds who have acquired greater experience in fishing and in reproduction. Brood members usually hatch at two to four day intervals (Palmer 1962). The three oldest members of broods gained weight at a similar rate but the fourth member usually was stunted and died before the age of two weeks. /// Le patron de croissance pondrale de 65 jeunes Cormorans  aigrettes appartenant  32 niches de sept colonies de l'estuaire du Saint-Laurent a t tudi durant la saison de nidification 1978. En rgle gnrale, les taux de croissance les plus rapides et les tailles les plus fortes ont t mesurs dans les colonies les plus anciennes,  des endroits o les cormorans sont trs nombreux et surclassent les golands en abondance. Les adultes qui nichent dans ces colonies occupent des nids gnralement plus volumineux et ils mnent habituellement plus de jeunes jusqu' l'envol. Il s'agit probablement d'oiseaux dominants qui ont acquis une plus grande exprience  la pche et en matire de reproduction. Il se passe habituellement de deux  quatre jours entre l'closion des diffrents oeufs d'une couve (Palmer 1962). Les trois premiers-ns d'une niche prennent du poids au mme rythme mais le quatrime jeune est gnralement domin par les autres et constamment sous-aliment, si bien que sa croissance est retarde et il meurt habituellement avant d'avoir atteint l'ge de deux semaines. 
10.2307/1521769|Ice Island, a small (0.17 ha) island in the St. Lawrence River near Mallorytown Landing, Ontario, Canada, supported 121 nests of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) in 1976. By 1989 the island had been completely taken over by 181 pairs of nesting Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis). During the 1990-1993 breedings seasons, the tern colony was gradually restored by excluding gulls through the installation of monofilament lines, the repeated removal of gull nests, and the placement of wooden tern decoys. Tern nest numbers increased from 2 in 1990 to 135 in 1993. During the 1994-1996 breeding seasons, no lines were installed and not all gull nests were removed. During this 3-year period, the number of Ring-billed Gull nests increased from 2 in 1994 to approx. 250 in 1996, while the number of Common Tern nests first continued to increase to 149 in 1995, but then steeply declined to 3 in 1996. On-going gull control is required to maintain the Ice Island tern colony.
10.2307/1521366|Indian River Terns (Sterna aurantia) were found breeding in April 1990 for the first time at the age of one year at two colonies in man-made reservoirs near Rajkot, Guajarat, India. The age of first breeding is earlier than that reported in other species of terns, and may be related to the resident status of this population in a freshwater habitat that could lead to early knowledge of the feeding grounds and accessibility of food.
10.2307/1521703|Depending on levels of historical and contemporary gene flow, the spatial scale of populations of colonial waterbirds may range from individual colonies to entire species. Understanding the spatial scale of populations is important for conservation for several reasons: (1) for estimating levels of gene flow, and thus the capacity for natural recolonization; (2) for conserving genetic resources both within individuals and within species; (3) for assessing the scale of impact of natural and anthropogenic mortality; (4) for identifying appropriate sites for population monitoring and restoration; (5) for determining a colony's uniqueness; (6) for identifying source and sink populations; and (7) for estimating effective population sizes. The geographic scales of populations may be estimated from direct observations of demographics and/or from a variety of molecular techniques; the most powerful studies combine 2 or more methods. Recent studies of murres and murrelets indicate the importance of understanding the spatial scale of populations for conservation. Although few investigations have been done on colonial waterbirds, preliminary analyses of published studies suggest that the geographic scales of populations tend to be greater in species with an "island" type population structure or an offshore foraging mode than in those with a "stepping-stone" type of population structure or an inshore foraging mode. In some cases, the spatial scale of a population may be smaller than the colony.
10.2307/1521871| Year-round dynamics of White Storks Ciconia ciconia foraging on refuse at a Madrid, Spain rubbish dump were studied with respect to seasonal abundance, age, flocking patterns and roosting behavior. White Storks foraged at the dump and roosted communally nearby almost year-round, synchronizing roost arrivals and increasing flock sizes with flight distances. The number of storks peaked during summer migration, when juveniles formed the bulk of foragers, and then sharply declined until September when numbers generally stabilized during autumn and winter. /// Se estudia la dinmica anual de Cigueas Blancas Ciconia ciconia alimentndose en el basurero de Madrid (Espaa) con respecto a su abundancia estacional, edad de las aves, patrones de agregacin y comportamiento de dormidero. Las cigueas se alimentaron en el basurero y pernoctaron comunalmente en su vecindad a lo largo de casi todo el ao, sincronizando las llegadas al dormidero e incrementando el tamao de bando con la distancia al dormidero. El nmero de cigueas fue mximo durante la migracin de verano, cuando las aves juveniles formaron una proporcin mayoritaria, y disminuy hasta Septiembre para luego estabilizarse o fluctuar levemente durante el otoo y el invierno. 
10.2307/1521177|The determination of prey captured by birds through direct observation of foraging individuals is a popular field method that has been used for various purposes. Here we present results from an experiment performed to test the reliability of the method. Incorrect identifications are likely to occur, especially with small prey items. The importance of such errors is discussed in relation to the goals of specific feeding studies.
10.2307/1521138|Methods of collecting, analysing and presenting data on the diets of seabirds are reviewed, with consideration of methods employed in diet studies of other organisms. Killing of birds continues to be the primary source of dietary information from birds at sea but is no longer necessary for studies on land. Stomach pumps obtain complete stomach evacuation with low mortality. Stomach samples should be examined as soon as possible after collection, to avoid biases caused by preservation. Presentation of data is best done by rank-order to facilitate comparison between studies, but as many data should be provided as possible. Future work on diets will be strengthened through knowledge of digestion rates and nutritional values of food.
10.2307/1521016| We present results from a pilot study on prey selection in Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta). Eight birds were individually presented with small and large food items. Largest items were the most profitable in terms of energetics. Data for all eight birds combined show that the egrets had a strong preference for taking large items, irrespective of their relative abundance. The need for further experimental investigations is discussed in relation with the premise of energy maximization of optimal foraging theory. Nous prsentons les rsultats d'une tude pilote portant sur la slection des proies chez l'Aigrette garzette. Des items alimentaires de petite et de grande taille taient proposs  chaque oiseau isolment. Les items de grande taille taient les plus profitables du point de vue energtique. Les donnes combines pour les huit oiseaux montrent que les aigrettes montraient une forte prfrence pour les items de grande taille, quelle que soit leur abondance relative. La ncessit d'engager des recherches exprimentales complmentaires est discute en relation avec le prmisse de maximisation de l'nergie de la thorie de l'approvisionnemnt optimal. 
10.2307/1521817| The effect of a trawler moratorium on the foraging range of Audouin's Gull Larus audouinii was studied in the colony of the Ebro Delta (northwest Mediterranean). Trawlers were excluded from an area within a 110 km radius from the colony. In 1990, the year before the establishment of the moratorium, few gulls were observed from a land-based observation point outside the moratorium zone, while in 1991 and 1992 numbers of gulls significantly increased. Although most of the gulls probably were nonbreeders, breeding gulls were also able to travel long distances to seek food from trawler discharge. Increased foraging range may result in an increased cost of reproduction. /// En el presente estudio se analiz el efecto de una veda de arrastreros en el rea de campeo de la Gaviota de Audouin Larus audouinii en la colonia del Delta de l'Ebre (Mediterrneo Noroccidental). La veda afect a un rea de 110 km de radio alreadedor de la colonia. En 1990, un ao antes del inicio de la veda, se observaron pocas gaviotas desde un punto de observacin situado en la costa, ms all del rea de veda. Por contra, en 1991 y 1992 el nmero de gaviotas observadas aument significativamente. Pese a que probablemente la mayora de gaviotas eran no reproductoras, algunos reproductores tambin fueron capaces de desplazarse ms all del rea de veda para aprovechar los descartes de los arrastreros. El incremento del rea de campeo de algunos animales podria suponer un mayor coste reproductor. 
10.2307/1521528|Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) and Great Cormorant (P. carbo) occur in inland, estuarine, and coastal waters in Nova Scotia. Cormorants have protected status and there is no recreational hunt. Complaints against cormorants from the commercial and recreational fishery and landowners began in the 1950s and coincided with an increase in cormorant populations. Conflict between humans and cormorants occur because of depredation of fish from nets and weirs, consumption of trout and migrating salmon smolts, and reduction of aesthetic and property values. This paper describes changes in abundance and current population status of both species, how perceived and real human/cormorant conflicts were addressed, and management approaches currently followed in Nova Scotia.
10.2307/1521523|This paper provides the first full synthesis of population and productivity characteristics of Great Lakes Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) on a Great Lakes-wide basis during this century. The breeding population increased slowly from initial colonization in 1913-20, to around 900 pairs by about 1950, despite persecution. Reproductive failure caused by DDE-induced eggshell thinning and subsequent egg breakage led to virtual extinction on the Great Lakes by the early 1970s. Since then, the population has increased dramatically, at an average rate of 29% per annum. In 1991 there were over 38,000 apparently occupied nests on the Great Lakes, in a total of 103 colonies. The bulk of the 1991 population bred in Lake Huron (40%), Lake Ontario (24%) and Lake Michigan (21%); Lake Superior (9%) and Lake Erie (6%) were less important. This recent increase is steeper than in most other parts of the species' range, and is attributed to a combination of factors: reduced human persecution, declining levels of organochlorine contaminants, and an abundance of forage-base fish, notably Alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus), following decimation of Great Lakes stocks of predatory fish between the 1940s and 1960s, which has been attributed to predation by Sea Lampreys (Petromyzon marinus) and human over-exploitation.
10.2307/1521507|During the breeding season of 1987/88 seven of 30 marked pairs of Cape Gannets (Morus capensis) relaid after successfully raising chicks to independence. The laying of the second clutch by these early breeding birds may have been facilitated socially by the presence of numerous breeding birds combined with a surplus of food. The inability of Cape Gannets to raise the second brood beyond the small chick stage may result from a continued deterioration in body condition to some critical level during the second breeding attempt and subsequent desertation of the nest.
10.2307/1521018| Nineteenth century accounts of the Mono Lake gull colony are mostly heresay and are unreliable for reconstructing population phemonema. Although the colony was egged, contentions that egging greatly reduced its size or that its growth in the 20th century represented a rebound from a depleted state are not supported by historical evidence. First-hand observations from the 20th century indicate that the colony's most rapid increase, from 5000 birds in 1950 to 50,000 by the mid-1970s, was paralleled by the appearance of new nesting habitat. Whether the relationship was causal is debatable. Nevertheless, there is evidence that the availability of nesting space has influenced the growth and distribution of this colony, at least in the past decade. 
10.2307/1521921| James Flamingo (Phoenicoparrus jamesi) is restricted to South American altiplano salt lakes 3,600 to 4,500 m above sea level. Little is know about the basic biology or foraging behavior of this species. This work reports on foraging behavior of James Flamingo in Laguna de Pozuelos, at 3,600 m above sea level in the northwest of Argentina. James Flamingo showed statistically significant preferences for the use of the two-cm deep foraging microhabitat. Twenty-four diatom species were identified in gizzard contents. All diatom sizes available in the lake could be filtered by James Flamingo, yet prey smaller than 20 m, the most abundant in the lake, were not found in the same proportion in the diet as in the water. This would indicate a fixed preference for a certain diatom size, regardless of their availability. Prey 21-80 m were retained in a proportion larger than that found in the lake, and those least available, 81-121, m were filtered according to their relative abundance. 
10.2307/1521256|White Stork (Ciconia c. ciconia) numbers have been decreasing in the western part of Europe for at least 100 years. We investigated the main causes of this decrease by analysis of national and international stork census data and 19th century reports. Rainfall in the wintering areas (eastern and western Africa), taken as a relative measure for the winter food supplies, was positively correlated with the annual relative changes in number of pairs with nests in Oldenburg/Lower Saxony (Federal Republic of Germany) (1928-1984) and in Alsace (France) (1948-1970). During years with a high winter rainfall, storks arrived earlier in the breeding area and more pairs produced fledged young. The food link suggested by these data is supported by statistics on plagues of locusts and armyworms in Africa. Dates of arrival at the breeding area suggest that climatic changes have been an important causes of the initial decrease of the storks wintering in western Africa. Important causes of the causes of the decrease in the past decades were a decreased supply of locusts and drought in the wintering areas and, regionally, a deterioration of the habitat in the breeding area. We consider habitat change to be the main cause of the regional decrease of the storks wintering in eastern Africa.
10.2307/1521655|The offshore distribution of seabirds was examined during an oceanographic cruise in the north-western Mediterranean in June 1995. Counts were made at 81 hydrographic sampling stations. The three most abundant species were those with the greatest breeding numbers in the area: Audouin's Gull (Larus audouinii), Cory's Shearwater (Calonectris diomedea), and Balearic Shearwater (Puffinus yelkouan mauretanicus). All three species were found in both inshore and offshore waters, and up to around 200 km from their nearest colonies. The area with the highest concentration of individuals coincided for the three species, circa 40 km southeast of the mouth of the Ebro River, where high densities of clupeiform fishes occur. In contrast, the Yellow-legged Gull (Larus cachinnans), a species also having large breeding numbers in the area, was not common at sea, especially in offshore waters.
10.2307/1521942|We summarize the history of waterbird research in the Mediterranean region, how some of these activities developed into long-term ecological research programs, and how they created awareness of the need to conserve the species and their wetland habitats. We further analyze the impact of colonial waterbird studies on conservation actions and recommend how current research can be made relevant for conservation. An overview is presented of the development of mid-winter counts and wetland site inventories, and the contribution of ecological studies to the conservation of colonial waterbirds and their habitats is summarized. There is still a lack of information on the distribution of the breeding colonies throughout the Mediterranean and of a co-ordinated population monitoring program. Data on feeding habitat and colony site requirements help to recognize those parts of the aquatic ecosystem that ought to be given conservation priority. The study of reproductive biology adds complementary data on the dependence of reproductive performance on environmental conditions. Ultimately, the identification of the environmental factors that influence population size is a key requirement for species conservation programs. This requires long-term studies. However, due to the infrastructure and long-term commitment involved, population studies expanding over decades have remained very few. To make the important investments in the study of colonial waterbird ecology more applicable to the conservation, management and restoration of their wetland habitats in the future, the collection of baseline monitoring data is required throughout the Mediterranean. Successfully tested ecological research methods need to be adopted in different parts of the Mediterranean and used in a coordinated way. Foraging ecology, ecotoxicology and the study of habitat requirements in relation to population dynamics are the research fields that can provide useful information for site-specific habitat management and restoration programs. Interdisciplinary projects between ecologists, hydraulic engineers, and land-use planners need to be developed. Finally, the results of the scientific studies need to be disseminated more widely, also in a form accessible to the administrator, political decision-maker, and local inhabitant of a wetland area.
10.2307/1521276| Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) nesting on inland lakes in South Carolina, USA increased from 60 pairs in 1986 to 186 pairs in 1989. In 1989, 54% of 66 nests in one colony produced at least one young. Survival was lower during the egg stage than during the nestling period. Most egg mortality was caused by Fish Crows (Corvus ossifragus). Cormorants laid eggs between 22 April - 1 September 1989; we found no difference in the success of clutches initiated early (3-15 May) and late (14-28 June). Nest success was similar to that reported from colonies in the northern part of the species' range. The average of 2.2  0.84 (SD) fledglings per nest may be sufficient to allow local, self-sustaining population growth. 
10.2307/1521164|The distributions of Leach's Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa) and Wilson's Storm-Petrel (Oceanites oceanicus) off Nova Scotia in summer are related to oceanographic conditions. In the Bay of Fundy, local concentrations of birds occur over tidally-induced upwellings and convergences, where zooplankton biomass is highest. On the Scotian Shelf and Georges Bank, flocks are also associated with the shelf-break and the edges of shoals. Similar associations occur in other areas.
10.2307/1521092|The number of Least Tern colony sites in New Jersey has declined in recent years. Decoys were used at two recently abandoned Least Tern colony sites in New Jersey to encourage nesting. The sites were chosen because of their apparent suitability as colony sites and the relative ease of protecting them from human disturbance and predators. Least Terns were observed flying over and landing at both sites, although nesting occurred at only one site. The effect of decoys was statistically significant at the colony site used for nesting. At this site, 44.5% of the landings occurred in the plot containing decoys and only 10.6% of the landings were in the control plot. Nesting was initiated among the decoys. These results indicate that decoys can be used to attract Least Terns to abandoned colony sites and may be useful for managing Least Terns and other colonial nesting birds.
10.2307/1521365|Young Cape Gannets (Morus capensis) were banded at Bird Island, Algoa Bay, South Africa every year between 1980 and 1990. An unprecedented number of recoveries in 1983 was thought to have been occasioned by a warm-water event, but also coincided with increased banding effort and the introduction of a new band address. Examination of seven-year recovery totals with old and new address bands suggests that the change did not have a major influence on reporting rate. The 1983 recovery rate of 2.71% was 3.8 times higher than the mean 0.72% of "normal" years. The expected number of recoveries of Cape Gannets in their first year of life can be predicted. An increase in the reporting rate may indicate abnormality of marine conditions. A formula is provided to determine the number of young Cape Gannets that must be banded in order to detect an increase in recovery rate.
10.2307/1521613|The Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) is a widespread, but local breeder, in much of the southern, central, and northeastern interior of British Columbia (Campbell et al. 1990). On the coast it breeds at only 1 locality. The heart of its breeding distribution is in the Central Interior, southern Sub-Boreal Interior and southern Boreal Plains ecoprovinces, but the largest concentration occurs in the Creston Valley in the Southern Interior Mountains ecoprovince (Campbell et al. 1990). During 1996, 32 active colonies were surveyed with totals of 975 flying birds counted, 133 nests found, and 501 breeding pairs estimated. Colony sizes ranged from 1 to an estimated 60 pairs. High water levels province-wide resulted in additional breeding habitat being available, especially in meadows that are dry during most years. Over the past 2 decades, the breeding distribution of Black Terns has apparently expanded northward and westward in British Columbia. Breeding terns are colonizing new, managed wetlands which have relatively stable water levels during the breeding season. Innumerable wetlands suitable for breeding occur over vast areas of the interior. Populations may be increasing in size in some regions, but have declined in the central-south interior. Some populations elsewhere, in areas with high rates of residential development, have also declined, and a few colonies may have disappeared permanently. Although declines are better documented than increases, we do not consider Black Terns to be at risk in British Columbia. Overall, the outlook for Black Terns in British Columbia appears quite encouraging.
10.2307/1521326|A recent paper on sex ratios in gulls based on label notations of museum specimens overlooked the probability of missexing, especially in young birds, and of labelling errors, although workers were warned about such errors in a 1976 paper by Clench.
10.2307/1521255|Overwintering locations of five Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) captured in east-central Georgia were determined from 1984-1986 through the use of radiotelemetry. These storks were assumed to be associated with the Birdsville colony in Jenkins County, Georgia, U.S.A. Three of the birds have been recorded breeding in that colony. Three birds were caught in 1984 and two additional birds were caught in 1985. The colony began to break up in late July each year. Following the break-up of the colony, the telemetered birds remained in the area until early November 1984 and early September 1985. The differences between years may have been related to weather patterns. The wintering areas of all three birds were located in 1984 and the locations of four of the five birds in 1985. The birds overwintered from the Okefenokee Swamp to southern Florida. We did not find these birds together, although we did find them with other storks. Individuals wintered in different areas in the two years.
10.2307/1521315|Demonstrating long-term use of marine habitats by seabirds is often complicated by short-term changes in habitat location, persistence, and age. This paper describes iterative techniques for characterizing non-static habitats, such as meso-scale (10-100 km) ocean eddies and fronts, using time-series of satellite images that define sea surface conditions. Seabird use of satellite-detected habitats was compared using survey data and imagery from the Gulf of Alaska and southeastern United States. Time-series examination of satellite images combined with long-term seabird censuses allow 1) estimation of the successional state (age) of some marine habitats, 2) detection of recurring habitats, 3) geographically-referenced measurement of habitat location and areal extent, 4) identification of consistently-used habitats, and 5) demonstration of time-dependent use by seabirds associated with seasonal or annual variation in habitat availability.
10.2307/1521383|Numbers of wading birds nesting at Lake Okeechobee were documented by aerial surveys during 20 breeding seasons between 1957 and 1988. Wading bird use of the lake for nesting declined noticeably during the period, especially as lake depths increased with the higher lake regulation schedule (15.5 ft. msl to 17.5 ft. msl) beginning in 1978. Higher lake levels reduce wading bird access to critical foraging habitat in the littoral zone emergent marsh, and have been the primary factor contributing to a decline in the condition of large willow (Salix caroliniana) communities that historically contained the major breeding colonies. Nesting at the King's Bar colony, which contained nearly 10,000 nests in 1974 and 6,000 nests in 1978 (excluding Cattle Egret [Bubulcus ibis]), had all but ceased by 1988. This site accounted for the greatest proportion of overall nesting decline at the lake. As the King's Bar site was declining during the 1980s, wading birds dispersed into numerous smaller colonies, many of which were located closer to the lake perimeter.
10.2307/1521084|Feeding flights of Snowy Egrets (Egretta thula), Tricolored Herons (E. tricolor), Little Blue Herons (E. caerulea), and Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) were monitored at a small nesting colony near Chincoteague, Virginia during late May and June 1979. All four species varied their flight directions over a series of days. Cattle Egrets oriented in a different direction (toward uplands) from the other three wetland-feeding species, which oriented toward Spartina marsh areas. None of the species showed a tendency to form groups while departing from or arriving at the colony. Tide level had little influence on flight directions used. Comparisons are made between these results and those from a similar study in coastal North Carolina.
10.2307/1521579|Countries of origin of foreign-ringed Black-headed Gulls (Larus ridibundus) sighted in Central London were compared with recovery localities of non-breeding birds ringed in Central London and reported abroad. The proportion of the total numbers of birds ringed between 1983 and 1987 in countries bordering the North Sea or the Baltic and subsequently sighted in the study area increased with increasing distance from Central London. Recovery localities of birds ringed in the study area were mostly confined to the Western Baltic and the Netherlands but few of these were found on their breeding grounds. Birds originating further from the study area were therefore more likely to winter in Central London than those from closer colonies. The wintering population of Central London differs from that of the rest of Britain.
10.2307/1521476|We present 6 years of data on the distribution and fledging success of 4,510 Great Blue Heron nests in 31 colonies on the Pacific Coast of British Columbia. Herons nested as solitary pairs and in colonies of up to 387 pairs. Almost half of all herons nested in just three colonies. An average of 1.7 young herons fledged per nesting attempt. The probability of a pair failing to raise fledged young was over 2.5 times greater in small colonies than large colonies. However, the probability of a nest having >3 fledglings was over 12 times greater in a small colony, than in a large one. Fledging success was significantly and positively correlated with the number of years a colony had been in use. Colony size was not a significant correlate of the number of fledglings a pair of herons could expect to raise over the 6 years of this study.
10.2307/1521962|The majority of breeding colonies of Dalmatian Pelicans (Pelecanus crispus), a vulnerable species, are located in freshwater inland wetlands. However, in the Mediterranean region, a few breeding colonies are found in lagoon systems. One of them (Karavasta, Albania) was already known early this century and two others (Camalti Tuzlasi and the Menderes Delta, Turkey) are recent, established probably during the 1970s following the abandonment of breeding colonies located in freshwater inland wetlands. Breeding success (from 0 to 0.85 chicks nest<sup>-1</sup>) is generally lower than that in breeding colonies located in freshwater inland wetlands. Disturbance (fishery activities, bird watchers, photographers), predation by gulls and limited availability of food late in the breeding season might explain this observed lower breeding success. Eels (Anguilla anguilla), mullet (Mugil spp.), gobies (Gobius spp.), and sand smelt (Atherina spp.) are the main food items eaten by Dalmatian Pelicans in these systems. All these fish are commercial species for the traditional fisheries within the lagoons, and the Dalmatian Pelican might compete with fisheries. The maintenance of these breeding colonies of Dalmatian Pelicans within lagoon systems are under threat because of the alteration of the functioning of these lagoons, increasing disturbance and coastal development (tourism). Conservation measures should be rapidly implemented.
10.2307/1521290|Factors commonly thought to influence the breeding success of colonial egrets were measured over 4 years. No significant difference in breeding success occurred between years, and the position of the natal tree in the colony did not affect breeding success. Evidence of synchronous breeding was found, but only Intermediate Egrets had a higher fledging success for nests that fledged young during the peak nesting month. The amount of rainfall in the five months prior to the onset of nesting was positively correlated with the fledging success of Intermediate Egrets, suggesting the importance of food availability for this species. Nesting success found in New South Wales was compared to that reported elsewhere, and found to be less than that calculated to maintain stable populations. The problem of comparing fledging success between different studies with different criteria for determining fledging is discussed.
10.2307/1521646|The California Channel Islands, U.S.A., and Northwestern Baja California Islands, Mexico, host important breeding populations of several seabird species, including the endemic Black-vented Shearwater (Puffinus opisthomelas) and Xantus' Murrelet (Synthliboramphus hypoleucus). Mammals introduced to nearly all of the islands beginning in the late 1800s to early 1900s include: cats (Felis catus), dogs (Canis familiaris), Black Rats (Rattus rattus), rabbits and hares (Leporidae), goats (Capra hirca), sheep (Ovis aries), and other grazers. Cats, dogs and rats are seabird predators, grazers such as goats and sheep cause habitat degredation, and rabbits destroy habitat and compete with hole-nesting seabirds. Cats, which were introduced to at least 19 islands and currently occur on ten islands, have had the greatest impacts on seabirds, including the extinction of the endemic Guadalupe Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma macrodactyla). Cats are known to have eliminated or severely reduced colonies of Black-vented Shearwaters, Cassin's Auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) and Xantus' Murrelets. Black Rats have occurred on a minimum of seven islands and have reduced numbers of small, hole-nesting alcids on at least one island. At many islands, defoliation and erosion caused by rabbits and large grazing mammals has been severe. Their effects on seabirds are not well documented but potentially are serious. Impacts from introduced mammals have been most severe on islands with no native mammalian predators. On the Northwestern Baja California Islands, temporary and permanent human settlements have led to a greater diversity and source of introductions. Programs to remove introduced mammals and to reduce the possibility of future introductions are needed to restore seabird populations and to preserve the biodiversity of the region. Surveys are needed particularly on the Northwestern Baja California Islands to update the status and distribution of seabirds and to further assess impacts from introduced mammals.
10.2307/1520987|To re-establish breeding Arctic Terns, (Sterna paradisaea) on Eastern Egg Rock (Knox Co., Maine), breeding populations of Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) and Herring Gulls (L. argentatus) were eliminated and social attractants (Arctic Tern decoys and sound recordings of nonaggressive tern vocalizations) were used to attract terns to this former nesting site. Herring Gull populations were significantly reduced after the first summer of control efforts and Great Black-backed Gulls were significantly reduced after three summers of control by poisoning, shooting, egg and chick destruction and human disturbance. Common Eider (Somateria mollissima) and Black Guillemot (Cepphus grylle) populations have remained constant despite nine years of gull control and human occupation on the island. In the first year of using decoys and sound recordings, tern sightings nearly doubled in frequency and in the third year of using these attractants, Arctic Terns and Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) nested in the immediate vicinity of the decoys and playback speaker. Roseate Terns (S. dougallii) joined the colony in 1981. By 1982 Eastern Egg Rock supported the largest Common Tern colony in Maine. The relative importance of gull control, decoys, and sound recordings cannot be determined from this study, however, the re-establishment of breeding terms on Eastern Egg Rock demonstrates that tern populations may be restored through an integrated program of gull control and social attractants. These techniques offer opportunities for re-establishing terns on historic, remote locations where they are safer from the increased predation, flooding, and human disturbance often characteristic of sites adjacent to mainlands.
10.2307/1521351|Reduced growth rates and prolonged fledging periods of Atlantic (Fratercula arctica) at a northern Norwegian colony as a result of food shortages are described. Despite difficulties in finding sufficient food for their chicks, adult Puffins did not lose more mass than those fledging chicks under good conditions.
10.2307/1520965|Comparison of foraging resources used by the Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Great Egret (Casmerodius albus), and Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) in a southern San Francisco Bay slough revealed interspecific differences in the lengths of fishes and other aquatic prey captured. Weekly observations of foraging activity from January to August 1978 indicated that this prey length selection was positively related to body size differences among herons, and resulted from behavioral differences in foraging. Other interspectific differences observed included spatial and temporal separation. Measures of niche breadth and niche overlap suggested that the Great Egret occupied an ecological role intermediate to the other two species.
10.2307/1521559|Data on natal philopatry were obtained for Cory's Shearwaters (Calonectris diomedea) on an island in the western Mediterranean Sea. Males visited or bred near where they had been reared more often than females, and returned to breed in their natal colony in higher proportion than did females. Females changed subcolony more often than males did.
10.2307/1521812| The vocalizations of the Chinstrap Penguin (Pygoscelis antarctica) are described including information on calling behavior. For each call type, characteristic audiospectrograms and oscillograms are presented. Numerical information about the spectral and temporal features of the calls is provided as well. The results are compared with descriptions of repertoires of other species of penguins. Received 31 March 1995, accepted 19 November 1995. /// Se describen las vocalizaciones del Pingino Barbijo (Pygoscelis antarctica) incluyendo informacin sobre el contexto en el que se emiten. Para cada tipo de llamada se presenta un audioespectrograma y un oscilograma tpico. Los resultados son comparados con las descripciones del repertorio vocal de otras especies de pinginos. 
10.2307/1521453|We compared numbers of nesting pairs, clutch size, nest success, and production of young of Tricolored Herons (Egretta tricolor), Little Blue Herons (E. caerulea) and Snowy Egrets (E. thula) breeding in freshwater, estuarine, and marine habitats of southern Florida between 1986 and 1989. Tricolored Herons were commonest in marine habitats, while Snowy Egrets and Little Blue Herons were most common in estuarine and freshwater habitats, respectively. Among Tricolored Herons, we found no evidence for consistent differences in laying date among the three habitats, and no relationship between clutch size and laying date. Among Tricolored Herons and Snowy Egrets, clutch sizes were larger in freshwater areas than in either of the two saline habitats, with no consistent differences in clutch size between marine and estuarine locations. Survival of nests was consistently higher in freshwater and marine than in estuarine habitat, an effect largely attributable to heavy egg predation by Common Crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) in estuarine colonies during incubation. Fledging success of Snowy Egrets and Tricolored Herons also was consistently higher in freshwater habitats than in either of the saline habitats. Thus, freshwater habitats showed generally increased nesting success and productivity over saline ones. Potential explanations for these differences among habitats include increased nest predation in estuarine colonies, a degrading estuarine and marine food web in the region, and the energetic constraints of salt excretion.
10.2307/1521804| We review intra- and interspecific brood parasitism in herons, and describe new cases for Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta), Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis), Squacco (Ardeola ralloides) and Purple Herons (Ardea purpurea) breeding in the Ebro Delta, Spain. We report also a case of a Little Egret chick that was successfully reared by Squacco Herons. We experimentally evaluated antiparasitic responses to simulated intra- and interspecific parasitism using dummy eggs. Large dummy eggs corresponded in size with normal Cattle or Little Egret eggs, while small dummy eggs were equivalent to the size of normal Squacco Heron eggs. Both egret species and Squacco Herons, deserted their nests significantly more frequently when a large egg was added to the clutch. Thus, the egret species were more responsive to simulated intraspecific parasitism, while Squacco Herons were more responsive to simulated interspecific parasitism. Size asymmetries between host and parasite, hatching asynchrony, brood reduction and nest-guarding all seem to be important to the evolution of brood parasitism in herons. /// Se han revisado los casos publicados de nidoparasitismo inter e intraespecfico en ardeidos, para su anlisis conjunto con una serie de nuevas observaciones correspondientes a nidoparasitismo en la Garceta Comn (Egretta garzetta), la Garcilla Bueyera (Bubulcus ibis), la Garcilla Cangrejera (Ardeola ralloides) y la Garza Imperial (Ardea purpurea) nidificantes en el delta del Ebro, Espaa. Entre estos nuevos casos se incluye un pollo de Garceta Comn que fue criado con xito por una pareja de Garcillas Cangrejeras. Se ha realizado un experimento para valorar las respuestas al nidoparasitismo simulado a nivel intra e interespecfico en ste grupo de Aves. Para ello se usaron huevos mimticos grandes (del tamao del huevo de E. garzetta o B. ibis) y huevos mimticos pequeos (del tamao del huevo de A. ralloides). Tanto el grupo formado por la Garceta Comn y la Garcilla Bueyera, como las Garcillas Cangrejeras mostraron una tendencia significativa a abandonar con mayor frecuencia el nido como respuesta a la introduccin de un huevo mimtico grande, por lo que su respuesta fue significativa frente al parasitismo intraespecfico en el primer caso y frente al interespecfico en el segundo. Las diferencias de tamao entre parsito y husped, la diacrona de eclosin, la reduccin de pollada y el comportamiento de defensa del nido, parecen ser los principales factores implicados en la evolucin del nidoparasitismo en estas aves. 
10.2307/1520981|The impact of food on reproduction in Great White Herons was measured by comparing timing of nesting, clutch size, and fledging success of naturally foraging herons with herons that received supplemental food. The timing of nest initiation was not significantly different between food-supplemented and unsupplemented herons. Supplemented herons laid larger clutches and raised more young than did unsupplemented birds. Clutch sizes of supplemented herons were not significantly different from clutches laid by herons in Florida Bay in 1923 when the habitat was relatively pristine. These results provide evidence that food availability can influence clutch size and fledging success in Great White Herons. However, the similarity in size of clutches produced by supplemented herons and 1923 herons also suggests that unsupplemented herons had depressed clutches. The response to food supplementation is therefore interpreted as evidence that herons decrease clutch size when food is scarce. It was not possible to determine from this study whether food abundance could be increased sufficiently to trigger herons to increase clutch size above levels considered typical for the species.
10.2307/1521574|Radiotracking transmitters were fitted to White-tailed Tropicbirds nesting at Culebra, Puerto Rico. Foragers were located by light aircraft out to 89 km SSW of the nesting colony, over a deep-water foraging area south of Vieques Island, Puerto Rico and west of St. Croix, U. S. Virgin Islands. Two birds were followed out to 176 km NNW from the colony, over the Puerto Rico Trench, but these did not subsequently return. Foragers carrying radio transmitters performed similarly to those without, in terms of duration of absence from the colony, and mass of food brought for the chick. However, measurements of energy consumption by the doubly labelled water method indicated that birds with transmitters consumed significantly more energy than those without.
10.2307/1521916| I document the first nesting record of the Jabiru (Jabiru mycteria) in "Los Guatuzos" forest floodplain, Alajuela province, Costa Rica. The active nest was located in March 1995 at 1049'23.70"N and 8447'23.20"W. The nest was 16 m high in a 23 m high silk-cotton tree (Ceiba pentandra) and contained three chicks. The zone is not protected and active lumbering is underway. /// Documento el primer registro de anidacin del Jabir (Jabiru mycteria) para la Llanura de Los Guatuzos, provincia de Alajuela, Costa Rica. La presencia del nido la obtuve en marzo de 1995 mediante informantes claves. El nido activo estaba localizado a 1049'23,70'N y 8447'23,20'O, colocado a 16 m de alto sobre una ceiba (Ceiba pentandra) de 23 m de altura. El nido estaba ocupado por 3 pichones. La zona donde se encuentra el nido no est protegida y tienes grandes presiones de extraccin de madera. 
10.2307/1521819|The Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia) occurs in Ontario on Lake Ontario and Lake Huron, where its provincial status is rare. The colony at Hamilton Harbour is one of five Lake Ontario colonies, but its present location within the harbor is threatened by development plans. In an effort to determine the feasibility of relocating Caspian Terns, a raft was built and installed as an alternative nesting site during the 1993-1995 breeding seasons. In 1993, one pair established a nest and raised two chicks to at least 25 days, in 1994, six pairs nested and six chicks fledged and in 1995, 50 pairs nested and raised 97 chicks to fledging. In 1993, colonization of the raft by one pair occurred within 11 days of removal of a tarpaulin put in place to discourage nesting by gulls. In 1994, the raft was not colonized until late in the breeding season, some 42 days after it became available. Factors influencing the late nesting in 1994 are unclear, but may relate to either a renesting of failed pairs from mainland sites, or a loss of habitat in the mainland sub-colonies due to encroachment by Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) and increasing vegetation. In 1995, the raft was colonized by 8 May and at least 50 pairs nested, raising approximately two young per nest. Heavy predation by red fox (Vulpes vulpes) on mainland sub-colonies resulted in the raft providing the majority of fledged young in 1995.
10.2307/1521737|The winter range of the Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) in South America, according to current literature, extends south only to northern Colombia, northern Venezuela, and western Ecuador. On 20 October 1997, three Great Blue Herons were seen in the Anavilhanas Archipelago, Rio Negro, Brazil (03 00'S, 60 26'W). This range extension may be connected with the severe drought in Amazonia at the time.
10.2307/1521944|The status of the breeding gulls and terns in the Black Sea Biosphere Reserve, South Ukraine was studied from 1984 to 1993. The populations of all species have recently decreased with the sole exception of Yellow-legged Gull which has increased. The main limiting factors are anthropogenic and interspecific relations.
10.2307/1521280| We report results from a two year study (1986, 1987) of a breeding population of Grey Heron (Ardea cinerea) in the Duero river basin (Spain). The breeding season lasted from mid-February to the end of May, with some variation between years and colonies. Most birds arrived in February and March and usually occupied the nest of the previous year. Nest occupation appeared to coincide with the date when daily temperature reached a minimum of 8 C. The number of egg failures was high; 31.5 percent of eggs did not produce chicks, and many pairs laid replacement clutches. An average of 1.31 (SD = 0.46, N = 124) clutches per pair were recorded for the whole breeding population. Clutches were laid in two distinct periods, with a peak in March, and again from the second half of April to the first half of May. 
10.2307/1521194|Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) nest on barrier island and mainland beaches, on dredged spoil, and on large flat, gravel-covered rooftops in coastal Mississippi. Barrier island populations seem to be limited to small colony sizes to deter avian and mammalian predators. Mainland colony sites may be abandoned within a year or two as a result of vegetative succession, but sites where wind, waves, or human management prevents vegetative succession are inhabited year-after-year. As a result of development of a broad man-made beach, beach maintenance outside of the breeding season and protection during the breeding season, and a highway that selects heavily against predators crossing it to reach tern colonies, some Least Tern colonies on the Mississippi coast support 3000+ nests each year. Factors affecting Least Tern populations and the history of habitat changes and conservation efforts are discussed. At a time when stories of negative impacts of human activities on birds are commonplace, and while other Least Tern populations are considered endangered, the populations of Least Terns on the Mississippi coast seem to be thriving as a result of coincidental and deliberate management by man.
10.2307/1521768|Precipitous drops in 1995 water levels at Lake Mead in southern Nevada resulted in temporary alterations of marsh habitat previously used by Western Grebes (Aechmophorus occidentalis) and Clark's Grebes (A. clarkii). Rather than abandoning their traditional sites, the grebes commenced courtship following a return of the waters and restoration of the breeding areas. They laid their first eggs of the season not only during exceptionally high temperatures in mid-August, but also laid again during the coldest periods in mid-December.
10.2307/1521210|Shorebirds, particularly Redshank (Tringa totanus), fed more on areas recently cleared from intertidal cord-grass flats (Spartina) than on areas cleared 3-4 years before, and much more than within untreated swards of this cord-grass. Recently cleared areas did not always hold highest absolute densities of invertebrates important as bird foods, but these areas remained wetter during low tide and were more open in character than other zones. The long-term efficacy of control of Spartina with a single dose of 'Dalapon' has yet to be established.
10.2307/1521857| The Crab Plover, a little known endemic species of the north and west coasts of the Indian Ocean and the only member of the family Dromadidae, was studied at Mida Creek, one of its main overwintering areas. Roosting and feeding alternated in relation to the tidal cycle. Feeding occurred both by day and by night, but in different areas. Prey were pursued chiefly by visual detection; tactile probing was also used but with low success. The diet included all prey types present within a 25 cm layer of mud, but prey which often come to the surface (crabs and molluscs) dominated, while worms which remain within the mud were preyed upon less frequently. Juveniles took less than half the weight of food taken per min by the adults, due to a lower capture rate and smaller prey. The juveniles seemed to have the same rate of prey detection as the adults, but to be less able at prey capture, especially for prey that hide in mud and are presumably more difficult to catch. The overall feeding behavior of the Crab Plover is very similar to that of the Charadrius and Pluvialis waders. /// Abbiamo studiato l'ecologia trofica del Droma, specie poco nota ed endemica delle coste nord-occidentali dell'Oceano Indiano, a Mida Creek in Kenya, una delle sue principali zone di svernamento. Le attivita di alimentazione e l'aggregazione al dormitorio si alternavano in dipendenza dal ciclo delle maree. L'alimentazione avveniva sia di giorno che di notte, ma in zone differenti. Le prede erano individuate sopratutto visivamente, il reperimento tattile con il becco era usato meno frequentemente e con basso successo. La dieta ha incluso tutti i tipi di prede disponibili entro lo strato superiore del fango, ma le prede che si portano sovente in superfice (granchi e molluschi) erano le pi frequenti, mentre i vermi che restano infossati erano meno predati. Gli immaturi avevano un'assunzione di cibo pari a meno della meta degli adulti, a causa sia di un ritmo inferiore di cattura, sia della minore dimensione delle prede. Gli immaturi sembrano avere lo stesso ritmo di individuazione delle prede degli adulti, ma essere meno abili nella cattura specialmente delle prede che restano infossate e che quindi sono pi difficili da afferrare. I comportamenti di alimentazione del Droma sono molto simili a quelli dei trampolieri dei generi Charadrius e Pluvialis. 
10.2307/1521173|In San Francisco Bay, California, USA, concentrations of DDE and mercury in eggs differed among Caspian Tern, Forster's Tern, Black-crowned Night-Heron, and Snowy Egret in 1982. Geometric mean DDE concentrations were higher (P <0.05) in Caspian Tern eggs (6.93 ppm, wet weight) than in eggs of other species (1.92 - 2.84 ppm). Mean mercury concentrations were significantly greater in Caspian Tern (1.25 ppm) and Forster's Tern (0.90 ppm) eggs than in night-herons (0.41 ppm), but night-heron eggs contained higher concentrations of mercury than did the eggs of Snowy Egrets (0.21 ppm). There were no significant differences among species for mean concentrations of trans-nonachlor or PCBs; other organochlorines occurred in fewer than half of the samples, so means were not compared. Caspian Tern eggs from San Francisco Bay had higher PCB concentrations (4.85 ppm) than did eggs of this species from San Diego Bay, California (1.70 ppm) or Elkhorn Slough, California (1.83 ppm), but we detected no significant differences in mean concentrations of other organochlorines. DDE concentrations in 5 of 47 (10.6%) night-heron eggs from San Francisco Bay exceeded 8 ppm, a level associated with impaired reproduction in this species. DDE concentrations were negatively correlated with eggshell thickness in night-herons and egrets.
10.2307/1521407| This study presents quantitative evidence for a link between the timing of fishery activities and movement patterns of Audouin's Gull, Larus audouinii, in the Mediterranean Sea. The study was conducted in 1992 and 1993 in the Columbretes archipelago, Natural Reserve (Castelln, Spain). The diurnal pattern of Audouin's Gulls presence on the island differed significantly between fishing and non-fishing days. Most gulls abandoned the island to visit the trawlers during the hours in which they were hauling back nets near the colony. In contrast, the majority of gulls remained in the roosting area during the non-fishing days. This study shows that Audouin's Gulls derive food from commercial fishing activities, but the extent to which this threatened species depends on the fishery remains unknown. 
10.2307/1521521|Cormorants Phalacrocoracidae have a long history of conflict with fishermen and more recently with fish-farmers. Cormorant species tend to be opportunistic, adaptable, and highly attracted to concentrated food sources. At the population level, there is little evidence to suggest that cormorants seriously deplete commercial food sources, although at small scales, individuals or small numbers of cormorants may cause problems, especially at fish farming operations or hatcheries. On the other hand, despite a high potential rate of population increase, cormorants are among the more sensitive seabirds to human disturbance during breeding. Control measures would be very effective at breeding sites, but it is not clear that such efforts would remove the proportion of the population likely to be in direct conflict with humans, except at colonies adjacent to fish farms.
10.2307/1521215|We report on the use by birds of dredged-material sites in North Carolina. One hundred ninety species have been recorded on dredged-material islands. This represents nearly 50% of the approximately 400 species known from the North Carolina coastal zone. Analysis of patterns of use indicates that these man-made sites are especially heavily utilized by nesting colonial waterbirds, feeding shorebirds and waterfowl during fall, winter and spring, and by landbirds during the fall migration. A current trend toward the diking of most disposal sites favors use by feeding shorebirds and waterfowl, of aquatic habitats that often develop within dikes. Colonial waterbird nesting appears to be more successful on undiked sites, and increased numbers of diked sites may adversely affect them. A list of species recorded on dredged-material islands is provided with information on types of sites, level, and seasonality of use.
10.2307/1521036| The development of Northern Gannet chicks, which hatch naked and develop altricially, was studied. Under normal climatic conditions, chicks can maintain body temperatures above 30C by 15 days of age. Effective endothermy is in part achieved by the rapid growth of the tarsi, feet, culmen, and down. The constant slow development of the wing yields the best predictor of nestling age. Efficient food-begging behaviour develops during the first month after hatching corresponding with the functional maturity of the tarsi, feet and gular pouch. Chicks exceed adult mass by up to 50% during the third and final month of the nestling period. The relationships between the mode and rates of body development and adult nest-site behaviours in the gannet are discussed. 
10.2307/1521506|The foraging behavior of American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhyncos Linn.) breeding at Pyramid Lake in western Nevada was examined between 1984 and 1986. Pelicans seen feeding at Pyramid Lake during February and early March pirated fish from Double Crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus). When feeding with conspecifics, pelicans usually engaged in some form of "cooperative herding," either driving fish into shallow water or surrounding them in more open areas. Members of groups of two to six birds caught significantly more fish than single birds or those in larger groups. Strike frequency initially increased with group size, reaching an upper asymptote at a flock size of four. Tests with decoys revealed that pelicans were attracted to areas by the presence of other pelicans.
10.2307/1521266|Zoo personnel have talked for many years about conservation and the role of zoos in the overall conservation effort. Within the last few years changes in attitudes of zoos personnel and community have brought significant changes within the zoo world. Through their captive propagation efforts, research and public education programs, zoos have emerged as important members of the conservation community. Computerized record systems, studbooks, Species Survival Plans and meetings that draw in academic and field researchers are providing zoos with the tools to make their captive propagation efforts more and more successful. At the same time the need for conservation grows each day. Unfortunately, the role of these captive propagation programs will become more and more important as we strive to save even a small portion of the earth's diversity of life.
10.2307/1521597|We examined the behaviors and reproductive characteristics of 4 Eared Grebe (Podiceps nigricollis) colonies located at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in eastern Oregon that varied in nesting density. In 1993, we studied 2 colonies found on 2 different lakes, whereas in 1994 we conducted a within-lake comparison of 2 sub-colonies. During both years, nearest neighbor distances differed significantly between the colonies investigated. Breeding pairs were significantly more aggressive at those colonies with smaller distances among nests. Within each year, there was a greater rate of intraspecific brood parasitism and egg loss at the higher density colony. Infanticide occurred at high rates when nests were very densely packed, whereas a relatively high rate of predation by American Coots (Fulica americana) resulted when nests were quite dispersed. Thus, in spite of the distinct breeding characteristics of Eared Grebes, many disadvantages associated with nesting density in seabirds also have an impact on these colonially breeding waterbirds.
10.2307/1521952|Data are presented on the breeding populations of colonial nesting herons at the Albufera de Valencia, Spain from 1983 to 1993. Six species nest either in reedbeds on islands or in trees. Every year one to two monospecific colonies and three to four mixed colonies are formed. During the study period, the numbers of nesting Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis), Little Egret (Egretta garzetta) and Grey Heron (Ardea cinerea) were stable or increased, Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) and Squacco Heron (Ardeola ralloides) fluctuated, but overall they increased, while Purple Heron (Ardea purpurea) decreased. The maximum number of breeding herons recorded was 3,328 pairs in 1989. The first species to start egg-laying was the Grey Heron in January. All other species began during April. Data were collected on the breeding variables of the three most abundant species: Little Egret, Cattle Egret and Grey Heron. Cattle Egret and Little Egret showed interannual variation in mean clutch size and mean brood size. This was not the case for the Grey Heron. Comparisons with breeding areas elsewhere revealed that the ricefields of the Albufera, the main feeding habitat in this wetland, maintains one of the most productive populations of Ardeidae in Europe.
10.2307/1521693|I examined nestling Laughing Gull (Larus atricilla) stomach samples to determine the relative dietary contributions of food items from inland and marine habitats. I collected 149 bolus samples between 1992 and 1994 and found that adults relied heavily on inland foods to provision their young. Approximately 83% of nestling diet by volume was composed of foods from inland sources (anthropogenic foods, insects, fruit, freshwater fish). At least 1 of these inland food types was found in approximately 80% of all bolus samples. Anthropogenic foods accounted for over 62% of their diet by volume. Although Laughing Gulls in southern New Jersey nest on salt marsh islands, foods from marine and estuarine habitats only comprised approximately 10% of nestling diet. Foods of estuarine origin were most frequent in nests containing 1 chick. The mean percent volume of these foods was also larger in the diet of chicks from 1-chick nests versus those from 3-chick nests. I found a significant negative linear relationship between percent volume of marine foods and chick weight. I did not detect relationships between chick weight and any other food category. By feeding their chicks inland foods, adults may minimize osmotic stress for their young and thus enhance their growth and survival.
10.2307/1521404| Two instances of Yellow-footed Gulls (Larus livens) attacking Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) are described. We found that breeding gulls reacted very aggressively to the presence of vultures, which were potential predators of eggs or chicks. /// En Abril 30 de 1994, se observaron dos casos de grupos de gaviotas de patas amarillas (Larus livens) atacando al aura comn (Cathartes aura), en reas circundantes a las colonias reproductoras de la gaviota. Debido a la intensidad de las agresiones, que en un caso prcticamente producen la muerte de uno de los auras, y debido a que se sabe que C. aura puede depredar sobre huevos y pollos de otras aves, se sugiere que este cathartido puede ser un depredador potencial de la gaviota patas amarillas a nivel de nido. 
10.2307/1521802|We studied the surrounding land and nesting habitat of 15 Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) colonies in north and central Florida during 1981-1988 to determine large-scaled nesting habitat variables. Stork nesting habitat exhibited considerable variation in size and species of trees, percent canopy cover, understory stem density, and permanence of water. Freshwater sites generally were dominated by cypress (Taxodium distichum), whereas estuarine sites were dominated by mangroves (Rhizophora, Laguncularia). Storks used a variety of tree species for nesting substrate at individual colony sites, but often showed a preference for some species and nested in larger diameter trees at most sites. Wood Storks can be characterized as nesting in a variety of woody vegetation over (freshwater sites) or surrounded by (island sites) water.
10.2307/1521806| Using Red-tailed Tropicbirds (Phaethon rubricauda), I tested the hypotheses that energy limitation, as proposed by Ashmole (1963) and Lack (1968), is the reason pelagic seabirds have evolved small clutch sizes and slow growth of young. Degree of food demand on adults was altered in 26 nests by 1) increasing the brood size, 2) causing chicks to regurgitate one meal day<sup>-1</sup>, 3) switching different aged chicks among nests and 4) supplementally feeding chicks. Adults immediately increased amount of food delivered to the nest when demand increased, and reduced amount of food delivered when demand decreased. In nests in which different aged chicks were placed, adults altered their behavior and food delivery instantaneously and appropriately. The rate of wing growth in chicks ( mm day<sup>-1</sup>) was sensitive over short periods to the amount of food delivered, yielding significant variability in growth rate. Fledging success (from eggs hatched) in control and experimental nests was 100%, even during an El Nio-Southern Oscillation event, when food delivery was significantly reduced. The ability of chicks to adapt growth rates, and of adults to adjust their energy budget to various levels of demand indicates that these birds are not strictly energy limited and, thus, their life history adaptations are not necessarily linked only to energetic constraints. 
10.2307/1521090|We trapped 279 Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) of known age at two colonies in Massachusetts. Ages ranged from 2 to over 17 yr, with most in the range 3-11 yr. Between ages 2 and 9, older birds laid earlier, laid larger clutches and larger eggs, had higher fledging success, and probably slightly higher hatching success than younger birds. Most of these changes occurred between ages 2 and 5, but slow changes in laying date and clutch-size continued until at least ages 9 and 8, respectively. Birds aged 12 and over laid significantly smaller clutches, and birds aged 11 and over laid significantly smaller eggs than did younger birds. Birds aged 5-18 occupied preferred central sites 50-130 cm above high tide level during May; birds aged 2-4 occupied lower sites during June and most were washed out by a high tide in July. Despite wide overlap in breeding dates between age-classes, most birds selected mates of very similar ages. Marked differences between colonies in laying dates, clutch-sizes, and egg-sizes were apparent in all age-classes between ages 4 and 10.
10.2307/1521488| During a visit to the Syltefjordstauran seabird colony (North Norway), we found evidence of predation upon Black-legged Kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla) by Common Ravens (Corvus corax). We collected and analyzed 178 pellets from a flock of at least 40 ravens. Kittiwake remains were present in 98.8% of pellets. Ravens consumed kittiwakes of all age classes, but mainly nestlings older than 8 days and weighing more than 130 g. We estimate that by consumption of kittiwakes, ravens were able to satisfy their daily trophic requirements. /// En el transcurso de una visita a la colonia de aves marinas de Syltefjordstauran (Norte de Noruega), hallamos evidencias de la depredacin de cuervos (Corvus corax) sobre gaviotas tridctilas (Rissa tridactyla). Tras analizar 178 egagrpilas procedentes de un bando de al menos 40 cuervos, encontramos restos de estas gaviotas en el 98.8% de las mismas. Los cuervos consumieron gaviotas de todas las edades, pero principalmente pollos mayores de 8 dias y de ms de 130 gr. de peso. En base a los resultados, estimamos que estos cuervos pudieron satisfacer sus requerimientos energticos diarios consumiendo casi exclusivamente gaviotas tridctilas. 
10.2307/1521652|Strong diurnal activity patterns were found in wintering Common Murres (Uria aalge) in the central North Sea. Mean flock size doubled during the daylight period, with alternate times in which either flying or swimming dominated (>70% of murres observed in flight or at sea). The formation of large single or mixed-species aggregations of birds just before sunset at common sleeping areas is described. The results suggest a daily movement of Common Murres to potential feeding areas in the morning with a subsequent dispersal of birds during the day, apparently in response to changes in the availability of fish prey. The formation of large nocturnal aggregations of Common Murres at sea has not been described before. Such concentrations at night may be multi-functional, providing information on the location of suitable food supplies, safety against predators by enabling individuals to relax their personal vigil for potential predators, or giving the birds the opportunity to socialize and prepare for the oncoming breeding season.
10.2307/1521170|We examined methods for monitoring changes in Ancient Murrelet populations. Physical examination of burrows, the normal procedure for determining occupancy in most burrow-nesting seabirds, was found to cause frequent desertions. As deserted burrows were less likely than successful burrows to be occupied in subsequent years, we do not consider this method suitable for long-term population monitoring. We suggest either (1) inspecting burrows after the chicks have departed, at which time the remains of egg membranes give an accurate indication of successful breeding, or (2) using knock-down tags to monitor occupancy and catching chicks en route to the sea to monitor productivity. We did not find counts of vocalizations or arrivals at the colony to have any value for monitoring because of the extreme night-to-night variation. Nor did we find an optic-fibrescope or a telethermometer to be of any value in determining burrow occupancy.
10.2307/1521947|The Audouin's Gull has bred in the Ebro Delta since 1981, and this population has grown to ca. 6,700 pairs, i.e., approximately 60% of the world population. The increase and maintenance of this population has been attributed to the high availability of food derived from human fishing activities. The existence of a trawl fishing moratorium in the area during the months of April and May 1992 allowed us to compare the feeding ecology of Audouin's Gulls and to assess the relevance of human fishing to the maintenance of the Ebro Delta colonies. Our data show that (as in other studies) Audouin's Gulls are highly specialized pelagic marine predators, feeding mainly on clupeid fish even under moratorium conditions which induce relative food deprivation at the population level. Animals try to counterbalance starvation through a significant increase in their niche breadth, catching alternative prey in rice fields, terrestrial systems, and along the seashore. The comparatively high chick mortality rates recorded in years with a trawling moratorium indicate that these alternative resources did not adequately replace the shortage of their preferred prey types. It is concluded that the Larus audouinii population breeding in the Ebro Delta relies heavily on human fisheries operating in the area, thus revealing their vulnerability.
10.2307/1521027|Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis) are high density nesters with territory size often averaging less than 1 m<sup>2</sup>. Under these conditions, opportunity exists for considerable social interaction. We found that the frequency of aggressive behavior (e.g. long-calls, open-wing charges, fights) varied in relation to stages of the reproductive cycle. As the young developed, aggressive behavior of adults increased to a level greater than that shown during territory establishment. The rate of agonistic encounters increased even though the proportion of adults on territory decreased as the breeding season progressed. Adult attacks on chicks also increased dramatically and possibly contributed to chick mortality. Several factors, including intraspecific piracy, apparently stimulated the rise in aggression. This paper documents the changing patterns of aggressive behavior throughout the nesting season and discusses possible reasons for such changes.
10.2307/1521593|Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) were studied at 2 Lake Ontario colonies (Hamilton Harbour and Gull Island) to determine foraging patterns. Study subjects were fitted with leg-mounted radiotransmitters and tracked using a hand-held Yagi antenna. There were no significant differences between the attendance and feeding rates of control adults and adults fitted with radiotransmitters. Caspian Tern adults foraged at several different locations throughout the study period suggesting adults do not forage in predictable patterns. To our knowledge, this is the only study which has found a colonial waterbird in a freshwater system foraging in unpredictable patterns.
10.2307/1521219|A conference on waterfowl and wetlands along the Atlantic coast of North America was held in Wilmington, Delaware in September 1986. Discussions centered around coastal impoundments and Open Marsh Water Management as methods of mosquito control and waterfowl enhancement. Single purpose management of coastal marshes, whether for mosquito control or waterfowl, may not be the most beneficial approach. Where management options are available, the management for habitat heterogeneity may be indicated.
10.2307/1521408|We present here information on the status of the breeding seabirds of Malpelo Island, Colombia, 500 km off the Pacific coast of Colombia, based on six visits to the island from 1985 to 1992. The distinctive orange-billed form of the Masked Booby (S. dactylatra granti), which is apparently endemic to the eastern Pacific Ocean, is by far the island's most abundant breeding seabird. Using aerial photography, we obtained an accurate population estimate of 24,034 individuals, making this the second largest Masked Booby colony in the world. The only other species definitely known to breed at Malpelo is Swallow-tailed Gull (Creagrus furcatus), with an estimated 50 pairs. Other species that regularly occur at Malpelo and probably breed in small numbers include: Red-billed Tropicbird (Phaethon aethereus), Red-footed Booby (Sula sula), Black Noddy (Anous minutus), Brown Noddy (A. stolidus), and White Tern (Gygis alba). Great and Magnificent Frigatebirds (Frigata minor and F. magnificens, respectively) are present year-round and may also breed. Malpelo was uninhabited until 1986 when a small military garrison was established, which raises concern about the possibility of introduced pests.
10.2307/1521087|The California Gull (Larus californicus) population breeding at Mono Lake, California, remained largely constant at 3,000-5,000 birds from 1916 into the early 1950s. It then increased sharply and by 1976 the population totalled approximately 50,000 birds. The increase seems largely attributable to the formation of new nesting islets, exposed by the decline of the lake since 1941, and to immigration from other colonies. From 1976 to 1983, the breeding population has remained at approximately 40,000-50,000 birds.
10.2307/1521182|There is still a need to collect specimens of colonial waterbirds for a variety of studies including geographic variation, anatomy, and comparative biochemistry. It is urged that each specimen taken be preserved in such a way that a maximum of data be preserved for it.
10.2307/1521083|Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) eggs (N = 40) collected in 1980 from four of the largest colonies in the Tennessee Valley contained organochlorine pesticide, polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB), and chromium concentrations below those associated with reduced productivity. Low concentrations of organochlorine pesticide and PCB residues also were found in eggs (N = 31) from three of the larger Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) colonies in the Tennessee Valley. However, DDE concentrations in two of the Black-crowned Night-Heron eggs exceeded levels associated with reduced nesting success. Mercury was found in all eggs of both species with residues ranging to a high of 2.0 ppm; residues of this magnitude have not been identified as reducing nesting success of either of these two species. Green-backed Heron (Butorides striatus) eggs collected in 1981 near a former DDT manufacturing site in the Tennessee Valley had the highest DDE concentrations ever reported for this species; the effect of these high concentrations on productivity is not known. Eggshell thickness of Great Blue Heron, Green-backed Heron, and Black-crowned Night-Heron eggs averaged 7.5%, 7.6%, and 3% thinner, respectively, than shell thickness of eggs collected before 1947. This amount of thinning is not deleterious; intraclutch variation in shell thickness is often this high. Shell thickness in all three species was correlated (P < 0.1) with DDE concentrations. The number of nesting pairs of Great Blue Herons and Black-crowned Night-Herons at each of the colonies studied has been stable or increasing during the previous decade. These population data, combined with the residue data, suggest that organochlorine pesticides, PCBs, mercury, and chromium are not adversely affecting these populations. However, we did not assess nesting success which would be a requisite for confirming this.
10.2307/1521868| On 5 August 1994, the islets of Los Farallones in the Gulf of Fonseca, Nicaragua, contained a colony of Bridled Tern (Sterna anaethetus), consisting of at least 1,200 adults and nine chicks. We estimated the size of the colony as 600 breeding pairs, considering that many adults were feeding at sea, and also that some of the adults present may not have been breeding. Breeding colonies of the eastern Pacific Ocean race, S. a. nelsoni, have been confirmed at only two other sites, in Mexico and Costa Rica. The Los Farallones colony is much larger than the other reported colonies, and may represent the major portion of the breeding population of S. a. nelsoni. Bridled Terns at Los Farallones did not exhibit nest defense behavior as described from other colonies, suggesting that there is little nest predation or disturbance at the colony. /// El 5 de agosto de 1994, las isletas de Los Farallones en el Golfo de Fonseca, Nicaragua, contena una colonia de Sterna anaethetus, con al menos 1200 adultos y nueve polluelos. Se estim el tamao de la colonia en 600 parejas reproductoras, tomando en cuenta que muchos de los adultos estaban buscando comida fuera del sitio, y tambin que algunos de los adultos presentes posiblemente no eran reproductores. Colonias de la poblacion S. a. nelsoni, de la regin oriental del Oceno Pacfico, se han confirmado solamente en dos sitios ms, en Mxico y Costa Rica. La colonia en Los Farallones es mucho mayor que las otras colonias, y puede representar la mayor parte de la poblacin reproductora de S. a. nelsoni. Las aves en Los Farallones no mostraron comportamiento de defensa descrito de otras colonias, lo que sugiere que hay poca predacin o perturbancia en la colonia. 
10.2307/1521013|Habitat selection by breeding seabirds was investigated at Chenlushan Island in the Yellow Sea. Four species nested on the island, the Ancient Murrelet (Synthliboranhus antiquus), Black-tailed Gull (Larus crassirostris) Swinhoe's Storm Petrel (Oceanodroma mohorhis), and Pelagic Cormorants (Phalacrocorax pelagicus). Each had differing nesting habitat uses and foraging habits.
10.2307/1521532|The Upper Mississippi River is an important habitat corridor for migratory birds and other wildlife, and it supports an important commercial and sport fishery. A study was initiated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in 1991 to describe Double-crested cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) distribution and abundance on the Upper Mississippi River throughout the year to better understand the possible impacts of cormorants on fish resources and populations of other piscivorous birds. Double-crested Cormorants were common breeders and abundant during migration on the Upper Mississippi River during the 1940s. Numbers of cormorants declined in the 1960s and 1970s along the Upper Mississippi River as they did in other parts of the United States. In 1992, 418 cormorant pairs were estimated to have nested in four colonies on the Upper Mississippi River, and less than 7,000 cormorants were estimated to have migrated along the river during the fall and spring of 1991 and 1992. Recent public concern for fish resources has grown with a perceived growth of the local cormorant population. Migrating cormorants collected on the Upper Mississippi River took Gizzard Shad (Dorosoma cepedianum) primarily, but chicks were fed a wide variety of fish species.
10.2307/1521965| The Pygmy Cormorant (Phalacrocorax pygmeus) is a little-known vulnerable species with a restricted Palearctic distribution. From 1988 to 1990, its breeding biology was examined at the artificial Lake of Kerkini, northern Greece where it nests in a mixed-species colony composed of 12 species of waterbirds. The height of the cormorant nests above the ground varied from 2.2 to 5.5 m. The water depth varied from 1.0 m at the beginning of the laying period to 3.0 m by the middle of the breeding season. Mean egg measurements were 46.5  30.6 mm. Mean clutch size was 5.3 eggs (range: 2 to 8); clutches of 5 and 6 were the most common. Almost 77% of the 867 eggs laid in 165 nests observed over three years hatched. Survival of chicks to three weeks of age was 69% of the eggs laid and 89.8% of eggs hatched. Flooding of nests was the major mortality factor. Decreasing the maximum water level and the duration of the flooding at that level is necessary to prevent the destruction of the flooded forest. 
10.2307/1521423|Discrepancies appear in the literature concerning the influence of time of day and tide on feeding activities of Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger). Observations from Guyana, South America, suggest that skimmers do feed during the day, but are strongly cued to receding tides.
10.2307/1520996|Colonial waterbirds are an important natural resource highly valued by many people in Canada and the United States. The habit of nesting often in large groups makes these birds especially susceptible to problems, such as human disturbance, predation, severe weather events, and competition for nesting habitat. They, like all birds, also face threats from habitat degradation, loss and contamination of their environments, and changes in food webs. Management strategies to deal with these problems include habitat preservation and restoration, the elimination of toxic chemicals from the environment, reduction of predation, competition, and disturbance at nesting sites, reintroduction of species to nesting sites from which they have been eliminated, and fisheries management from a multispecies ecosystem perspective. Techniques are discussed and examples provided. A few colonial waterbird species have increased greatly in numbers and now pose problems for other bird species or are in conflict with people. Management is also involved in the control of such problem birds. Strategies include habitat modifications and scaring or killing problem birds. There is a continuing need for information and research to allow appropriate management to be applied. Regular surveys and inventories are necessary on a regional basis to detect trends in population status and to minimize and mitigate conflicts with human activities. Studies of population demography are needed for species declining in numbers, and research into species ecology is often necessary before appropriate management can be applied. Additional techniques to reduce conflicts between birds and humans are also needed. Human activities are likely a major limiting factor for some species, and, conversely, humans are largely responsible for the increases of several species that have become problems. Continued education of the public and of conservation management agencies to the role and importance of colonial waterbirds is important. Many species are likely to continue to suffer from gradual incremental loss and degradation of habitats, and a conservation strategy for the protection of these birds throughout North America is recommended.
10.2307/1520985|Results of short-term, 1982 aerial surveys of coastal and estuarine North Carolina bird colonies were compared with 1977 censuses for Royal, Common, and Forster's Terns, Laughing Gulls, and Great Egrets. Common Terns had significantly fewer numbers of colonies in 1982 compared to 1977. Colony-site turnover rates were highest for bare substrate-nesting Royal Terns, somewhat lower for the other terns and gulls, and lowest for the egrets. Species other than egrets nested disproportionately north of Morehead City, a region characterized physiographically by wide coastal sounds where predation and human interference may be minimized, and where estuaraine productivity may be optimal for foraging resources.
10.2307/1521485|A breeding population of Yellow-crowned Night-Herons (Nyctanassa violacea) located along the lower Chesapeake Bay was monitored between 1986 and 1993. Juvenal-plumaged birds accounted for <1% of 1,140 nesting attempts where plumage type was determined for both parents. All juvenal-plumaged birds were paired to birds in adult plumage. On average, nesting success was lower but within 95% confidence limits of the population as a whole.
10.2307/1521464|I determined relative rates of digestion of three fish species in vitro by mimicking the gastric juices of piscivorous birds. Bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus) were digested more slowly than Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) and Gizzard Shad (Dorosoma cepedianum). Digestion kinetics of Bluegill were linear; those of Channel Catfish and Gizzard Shad nonlinear. These digestibility data may be used to predict in vivo digestibility, to correct estimates of food habits of individuals in field studies where gut contents are sampled, or to estimate nutritional contribution of different fish to the diets of birds.
10.2307/1521218| Southwestern Venezuelan savannas (llanos) flood from July through September because of heavy rainfall, poor drainage, and overflowing of rivers. These areas dry out from October through June. Since the late 1960's large areas of these grasslands have been diked, resulting in a longer inundation period, loss of forested areas and an increase in aquatic grass. Year-round flooding and heavy grass cover has caused a loss of nesting places for ground-nesting bird species, but an increase in habitat for jacanas and gallinules. Fish-eating birds are more abundant in diked areas than in natural areas because of a greater abundance of prey, and this has resulted in an increase in energy flow through these systems. Species diversity however, was greater in non-diked areas. Wading birds (mainly fish-eating species and Cattle Egrets) exported minerals (Ca, K, P,) and nitrogen from diked areas through daily flights to roosting places and seasonal feeding of nestlings and mates. This movement may contribute to a nutrient-impoverishment of the savannas enclosed by dikes. /// Las sabanas del suroeste de Venezuela se inundan anualmente debido a la alta precipitacin, suelos mal drenados y al desborde de los ros. El uso de diques (mdulos) en estos pastizales, produce un mayor perodo de inundacin, prdida de reas boscosas y un incremento en las gramneas acuticas. A su vez, esto ha causado una prdida de sitios de nidificacin para algunas especies de aves, mientras se observa un efecto favorable para jacanas y gallinulas. Las aves piscvoras son ms abundantes en reas moduladas por disponer de mejores sitios de alimentacin, y se observa un incremento asociado en sus demandas energticas. La diversidad de especies es mayor en reas naturales. Las aves zancudas (en especial las piscvoras y la garza garrapatera) exportan cantidades importantes de minerales (Ca, P, K) y de nitrgeno desde los mdulos, tanto mediante sus vuelos diarios hacia sitios de descanso nocturno como durante la poca reproductiva hacia las colonias de nidificacin. Estos hechos pueden contribuir a un empobrecimiento en nutrientes de las areas transformadas. 
10.2307/1521908| American Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber ruber) occur along the Ra Lagartos Lagoon on the northern coast of the Yucatn Peninsula, Mexico, where they use the artificial ponds of a major commercial salt operation. The salina is located within the Ra Lagartos Biosphere Reserve. To assess the effect of the salina on flamingos, we sampled potential food resources available to flamingos and monitored flamingo use and behavior in the ponds during the "norte," rainy, and dry seasons, 1994 and 1995. Most potential items were invertebrates (> 99% by number). Most food was found in the low- (45-77 ppt) and high-salinity (145-210 ppt) ponds; no food was found in intermediate-salinity (85-135 ppt) ponds. Taxa in low-salinity ponds also occurred in the lagoon, whereas those in the high-salinity ponds were specific to hypersaline conditions. Food fluctuated more in time and space in the low-salinity ponds than in high-salinity ponds. Flamingos used the high- and low-salinity ponds and the lagoon extensively during the rainy and "norte" season, but mainly used the high-salinity ponds and the lagoon during the dry season. Different feeding behaviors were observed in the different habitat types, and behaviors shifted seasonally. Although some areas of the salina offer feeding opportunities that complement those of the natural habitat, more than 60% of the total area covered by the salina is not suitable for feeding flamingos. 
10.2307/1521510|Color of Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) eggs of known laying order was quantified in a Wisconsin colony. Eggs were of greener intensity on the day of laying and one day thereafter than earlier laid eggs within a clutch. Egg color can be used to identify clutches within one day after clutch completion and to assign laying order within clutches during this period.
10.2307/1521017|Northern Fulmars (Fulmaris glacialis) fed on ice-associated macrofauna (probably gammarid amphipods) and pinniped offal concentrated by convergent flow at an eddy boundary near Northwest Cape on St. Lawrence Island, Alaska. The eddy was anticyclonic, measured approximately 1.5 by 2.25 km, and was generated by nearshore streaming induced by the cape's topography during lesser flood stage of the tidal cycle. These favorable feeding conditions persisted only for a few hours on a single day (22 May 1987). Like man-assisted scavenging, this observation suggests that natural feeding by fulmars can be highly opportunistic and time-dependent.
10.2307/1521512|I reply to Snell's criticisms of my work (Smith 1966a, 1966b, 1967a) done with Larus gulls in the eastern Canadian arctic during 1959, 1960, and 1961. In that work I presented evidence that the primary species' isolating mechanism involved the degree of contrast of the fleshy eye ring and iris against the white head and concluded (Smith 1966a, 1967a) that there was no evidence for hybridization in that area among Larus hyperboreus, L. argentatus, L. glaucoides kumlieni, and L. thayeri. Snell (1989) contested my conclusion that two of the most similar gulls (L. thayeri and L. glaucoides kumlieni) were mating assortatively in Home Bay, eastern Baffin Island. I here present arguments that Snell's (1989) published research on these gulls, and that of Gaston and Decker (1985) contained insufficient data to negate my conclusions. Snell (1989) asserted that what I published on gulls (1966a, 1966b, 1967a) and on plovers (1969) was logistically impossible. This interpretation was based on his four week visit to Home Bay, and on my published mistakes (Smith 1966a, 1966b, 1969) which are corrected here. These errors do not invalidate my conclusions.
10.2307/1521250|On 24 October, 1986, an international symposium on the ecology and conservation of storks was held at the tenth annual meeting of the Colonial Waterbird Society. Field biologists and zoo researchers were brought together to share their knowledge. The goal was to evaluate the conservation status of storks, to encourage communication among the many researchers, and to increase cooperation among stork biologists.
10.2307/1521865| Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) eggs were successfully hatched with incubation conditions of 37.2C and 60-64% relative humidity. Eggs were positioned horizontally, automatically rotated every two hours, and manually rotated 180 about their long axis once a day. Over 70% of cormorant eggs incubated according to these procedures successfully hatched. Variations in egg position, rotation, and length of storage were also assessed. None of the eggs incubated with their blunt end up hatched and only 54% of eggs receiving no manual rotation hatched. Of the eggs held at room temperature for two, three, or five days from the time they were collected in the field, 83 and 76% of the eggs held for two and three days, respectively, were still viable after 14 days of incubation. Only 13% of the eggs set five days after collection were viable when assessed at 14 days of incubation. 
10.2307/1521227|For over 34 years, the status of heron colony sites in parts of the coastal plain of Alabama, adjacent Florida, and Georgia was monitored. The colony sites and their occupancy are evaluated on a subregional basis using seven groups of geographically related colonies. Historically Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerulea) were first species to nest each year. Sites of active colonies changed over time. The number of birds nesting in these colonies increased after the arrival of the Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) in Alabama in 1957. The number of colony sites known and birds counted peaked in 1986, because of the more complete effort that year.
10.2307/1521607|A small Masked Booby (Sula dactylatra) colony was found on the southeast portion of Isla Lobos de Tierra, Peru. It consisted of 10 pairs of birds distributed in 4 areas. Five pairs were in a single nesting area in a ravine, 2 of the pairs were protecting single chicks. The other 5 pairs were found in 3 areas nearby. Sites faced southeast, exposed to the dominant winds. The breeding location is on the coastal zone of cold waters; highly productive waters of the Peruvian Upwelling System. Even though flying fishes and sardines are the most common prey items of Masked Boobies on their main breeding areas, on Lobos de Tierra they feed mainly on Peruvian anchovies. Possible causes of this colonization are discussed.
10.2307/1521735|We trapped and identified known-aged female Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) within 24 hours of the onset of laying. First-laid eggs were removed from 36 experimental nests within 24 hours of trapping, and returned approximately two days after the last egg was laid. Controls were matched for laying date. In contrast to previous studies of terns and gulls, only five of the 36 females continued to lay in the same nest-site: 16 were located at new sites after egg removal, 14 were not found and one died. Eleven of the 31 deserted nest sites were taken over by new pairs within nine days. Mean clutch size was greater for experimental birds than for controls, but only by 0.23 eggs, suggesting that fewer than half of the experimental birds laid an additional egg in response to egg removal. Fresh masses of second- and third-laid eggs were more similar in experimental birds than in controls matched for clutch size (P < 0.05). Three females that were marked without trapping also deserted their nests after removal of their first eggs, indicating that desertion was a response to egg removal rather than trapping. This study suggests that while Common Terns may be indeterminate layers, responses to egg removal are more complex than previously acknowledged.
10.2307/1521273|We surveyed genetic variability in White Ibis (Eudocimus albus) from two colonies separated by over 600 km. Heterozygosity and other measures of genetic variability were typical for birds and did not differ significantly between colonies. Genetic differentiation as measured by F<sub> st</sub> and genetic distance was small. We suggest that gene flow among regions resulting from dispersal in response to dynamic hydrologic conditions may contribute to the observed lack of differentiation.
10.2307/1521007|The Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) was first reported in the Greater Caribbean Basin from Old Providence Island in 1933. It was not reported again from the region until 1944, when an individual was sighted in Aruba, Southern Netherlands Antilles. Within 4 years, the species was reported in Puerto Rico and Jamaica more than 800 km north of Aruba in the Greater Antilles. By 1957, Cattle Egrets were successfully nesting in nearby Cuba and St. Croix. Today, the species is known from more than 50 major islands throughout the Caribbean Basin. Cattle Egrets show strong dispersal tendencies and migratory behavior. The first Cattle Egrets to reach the Caribbean islands were probably migratory individuals. Rapid range expansion in the Caribbean and throughout the neotropics was concomitant with increased animal husbandry and intense agricultural practices, including irrigation and burning regimes. The success of the Cattle Egret in the Caribbean region is also attributed to its high reproductive rate, exponential population growth, extended breeding seasons, and few vertebrate predators, owing to the region's insularity.
10.2307/1521048|Physical features of 39 representative Least Tern (Sterna antillarum) colony sites were examined to detect important aspects of site selection and to assess effects of shifts in site use related to coastal alteration. Sixteen distance, elevation, topographic, substrate, and disturbance variables were evaluated. There was no discernible selection for compass orintation. Most sites (90%) received at least weekly human visitation, but substantial disruption was evident only where vehicle entry was possible. Location categories differed primarily in substrate composition, but natural and dredged material substrates did not differ. Principal components analysis accounted for 73% of variation with the first 3 axes. Component I depicted the importance of horizontal and vertical spatial setting. Components II and III depicted substrate and ground cover composition, respectively, as important aspects of site selection. Site selection was independent of subtle location differences. These analyses verified the adequacy of previous nesting habitat characterizations. Nesting shifts to dredged material and construction fill are potentially adverse where higher silt and clay content may influence egg and chick survival during wet nesting seasons.
10.2307/1521213|The typical traditional Dutch grassland polder is a flat, open space, cut into squares by a maze of ditches and canals. It has a high water table and sometimes even winter inundations, hence no trees or buildings, which are found along the edges. Owing to a rare combination of soil, climate, hydrology, and management, these moist but fertile artificial prairies hold high densities (up to over 100 pairs/ km<sup>2</sup>) of six species of shorebirds, known as 'meadow birds.' This situation is now being changed with improved drainage, increased fertilization, earlier mowing, and higher cattle densities. Meadow-bird reserves can be recreated by imitating traditional methods and by keeping high water tables using dams and sluices. Meadow-bird management can be encouraged, for example, by financial compensation to private farmers for late mowing. Technically, we know how our meadow-bird populations can be preserved and managed; keeping them is mostly a political and financial matter. Despite some examples of very successful meadow reserves, Dutch meadow-bird populations are steadily declining.
10.2307/1521208|Wading birds (Ciconiiformes) may use diverse strategies to cope with the seasonal fluctuations of water levels characteristic of large tropical wetlands. Drawing on studies of two species in the Florida Everglades, in this paper I discuss such accommodations to hydrologic variability as foraging tactics, population movements, breeding seasonality, colony site selection, and colony site tenacity. Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) and White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) show both similarities and differences in their use of the Everglades wetland. The accommodative limits to life in fluctuating-water wetlands may be exceeded by water management practices, which in the Everglades involve increasing seasonal water depths and decreasing dry season recession rates. The White Ibis appears to have responded to these alterations by abandoning large-scale nesting in the southern Everglades, whereas the Wood Stork has shifted time of nest initiation. The resulting nesting failure and consequent decrease of the Wood Stork population suggest that its limits of accommodation have been surpassed. Thus rather subtle manipulations can have profound effects on population stability of wading birds using fluctuating wetlands, which in turn may affect energy flow and ecosystem functioning.
10.2307/1521818|A Jouanin's Petrel (Bulweria fallax) was observed on Sand Island, Midway Atoll, Northwestern Hawaiian Islands from 7-9 August 1993. This bird was heard again on 15 and 16 October of the same year. This observation complements the specimen collected on Lisianski Island in 1967 to represent a remarkable vagrancy of this species from the Indian Ocean into the Hawaiian Islands.
10.2307/1521239| This paper reports on recoveries of waders (Charadrii) banded in Australia and recovered in China. From 1953 to 1982, twenty waders and ten species were recovered. Several northward migration routes are depicted. Coastal areas of southeast China are the most important feeding areas for waders migrating from Australia north to the Palearctic. Opportunities exist for strengthening the study of international bird migration between China and Australia. /// , , , , . , , , ;  2    4    ; , , , , , , , , , ; , , , , . , . 
10.2307/1521614| Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) nest site selection and habitat availability were investigated in 1994 and 1995 at the Iroquois National Wildlife Refuge and adjoining Tonawanda and Oak Orchard State Wildlife Management Areas in western New York. Nest site selection was evaluated with a logistic regression model using habitat variables collected in 26 12-m radius circular nest plots and 31 random non-nest plots. Significant model variables were vegetation density, horizontal cover 0.5 m above the water, cover:water ratio, and water level. The model correctly classified 77.2% of all plots. Most nests (84.6%) were in sparse to moderately dense vegetation. Horizontal cover 0.5 m above the water level was 50% in 84.6% of nest plots as compared to 58.1% of random plots. Cover:water ratio was medium (40%-60% cover) in 65.4% of nest plots, while random plots were evenly distributed among the low, medium, and high cover:water ratio categories. Mean water level at nests was 48.2 cm and 42.1 cm in 1994 and 1995, respectively, similar to random plots. More than 80% of the nests were in bur-reed (Sparganium spp.) in both years. Habitat availability was evaluated by classifying all emergent vegetation within the study area into 4 habitat quality categories. Highly Favorable Habitat (HFH) was habitat in which the model predicted 0.50 probability of a nest site and suitable nest mats were available. Only 7.5% of the total available emergent vegetation in the study area was classified as Highly Favorable. Black Terns selected nest sites in HFH more than expected and used 72.5% of the total area of HFH in nesting marshes and 51.4% of the total area of HFH in all marshes within the study site in 1995. Muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) structures were the most frequently used nesting substrate in both years. HFH could become limiting if the size of this breeding colony increases or if nest site selection is influenced by social structure of the colony, habitat patch size and isolation, nesting density, or substrate availability. 
10.2307/1521294|The Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) is considered an endangered species in some states and is a category two species for listing as a federally threatened or endangered species. In the northern Great Plains, cattails (Typha spp.) have over-grown many wetlands, contributing to the decline in numbers of Black Terns. We aerially sprayed wetlands with glyphosate herbicide to assess the influence of habitat changes on Black Terns. In 1990 and 1991, two separate experiments were initiated in northeastern North Dakota whereby wetlands were randomly assigned one of three spray coverages with glyphosate. In one experiment, Black Terns used treated wetlands more than untreated wetlands (P < 0.1). In the other experiment, densities of Black Terns were similar between untreated and treated wetlands (P > 0.1). A stepwise multiple regression indicated a significant positive relationship between the number of Black Terns and hectares of water and dead emergent vegetation in the wetland (r<sup>2</sup>=0.51). Black Terns use of a wetland may be positively influenced by floating mats of dead cattails, live emergent vegetation, and open water.
10.2307/1521647|Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) eggs were opened daily throughout artificial incubation to determine characteristics which could be used to estimate the age of embryos collected in the field, taking into consideration that differences between artificial and natural incubation may influence developmental dynamics. Macroscopic observations and photographs are presented.
10.2307/1521961|In Europe and the western Mediterranean, Greater Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) breed regularly only in the Camargue (S. France), and at the temporary Laguna de Fuente de Piedra (Malaga, Spain). At the latter site, breeding is only possible following average or abundant autumn to spring rainfall, while in the Camargue colonies are established annually in an industrial salina. At both of these colonies, management techniques to counteract erosion and the lack of suitable nesting islands have been successfully applied in order to encourage breeding by flamingos.
10.2307/1521509| This paper presents information about the external characters of the progeny resulting from cross-breeding between cormorant species found at Punta Leon, Chubut, Argentina. The following mixed pairs were observed: Phalacrocorax albiventer and P. atriceps; P. albiventer and P. bougainvillii, the latter ones in turn crossed with their hybrids. With regards to the interbreeding between P. albiventer and P. atriceps only one specimen three months old was found; the cheek patterns were similar to those of the adult P. albiventer. The individuals produced from interbreeding between P. albiventer and P. bougainvillii were fertile and their external patterns were intermediate between the two forms. Not all white-cheeked adults had a white dorsal patch; black-cheeked individuals showed a dorsal patch of white feathers. /// Este trabajo presenta informacin sobre las caractersticas fenotpicas observadas en los ejemplares descendientes del cruzamiento entre diferentes especies de cormoranes. Los resultados se obtuvieron en la colonia de Punta Len, Chubut (Argentina). Las siguientes parejas mixtas fueron estudiadas: Phalacrocorax albiventer X P. atriceps, P. albiventer X P. bougainvillii; stos ltimos a su vez se cruzaron con sus hbridos. Resultado del cruzamiento entre P. albiventer y P. atriceps slo fue hallado un ejemplar de tres meses de vida, el cual mostr el patrn de las mejillas correspondiente a su progenitor P. albiventer. Los individuos producto de la cruza entre P. albiventer y P. bougainvillii mostraron fertilidad y sus caractersticas externas fueron intermedias. Slo un reducido nmero de P. atriceps adultos presentaron la mancha dorsal blanca. Observndose un ejemplar con el patrn de las mejillas de P. albiventer y una banda dorsal de plumas blancas. 
10.2307/1521759|Males and females of many avian species may show no plumage dimorphism, but often can be sexed by Discriminant Analysis on the basis of differences in morphometric variables. In this study of Parasitic Jaegers, two Discriminant Analyses were performed to classify sex. The first classified correctly 90.5% of 74 adults of known sex using a function involving incubation body mass and wing length. The second classified correctly 77.9% of 95 adults of known sex with a function using wing length, head plus bill length, bill length and bill depth. Jackknifing these analyses provided very similar classification results. In order to sex adults with a greater degree of accuracy when incubation weight was unavailable, the 2 discriminant functions were combined hierarchically. Sex was assigned to Parasitic Jaegers using the first function if the probability of group membership was greater than 0.85, and then by the second function, again only if the probability of group membership was greater than 0.85. By this method, sex was correctly assigned to 91.2% of 68 birds of known sex, with 27 individuals remaining unsexed. Using a system of classification such that sex was assigned either by observation, by this hierarchical approach or because of partnership with a bird sexed by one of these criteria, 86.4% of 214 adults measured during 1992-1994 were sexed with a high degree of confidence. In addition, a simple method is presented that can be used in future studies to illustrate the relationship between the discriminant score and the probability of membership of the male or female group.
10.2307/1521949|In order to determine the population changes of Little Terns (Sterna albifrons) breeding at Ria Formosa Natural Park (RFNP), a census has been carried out since 1989. In 1989, 198 pairs were found at RFNP. By 1992, the numbers had increased to 248 pairs and in 1993, 278 pairs nested. Their preference for breeding on beaches is often in direct conflict with recreation and tourism. On the Algarve coast, low breeding success was related to human activities and natural predation. Only wardening, restriction of access, and management of predators will improve breeding success.
10.2307/1521661|On Bird Island, South Georgia, we studied infestation by the tick Ixodes uriae on chicks of the Grey-headed Albatross (Diomedea chrysostoma). Our investigation found no significant difference in survival between infested and uninfested chicks.
10.2307/1521450|We studied the nesting habitats of eight species of seabirds which breed in neighboring colonies within the same lagoon in northern Italy. We investigated habitat partitioning among species and factors affecting specific habitat preferences. Characteristics of nest substrates, nest habitats, and available environments are described. Significant differences were found either between the nest substrates of the species, between their subcolonies, or between the environments available in the subcolonies of each species and their general availability. The variables that best separated the nest habitats of different species of seabirds were vegetation cover and height. Yellow-legged Gulls (Larus cachinnans) and Little Terns (Sterna albifrons) nested in single-species colonies, whereas the other species showed positive interspecific associations. Previous studies in the same area demonstrated that placement of colonies near preferred foraging areas and competition for limited nesting space do not influence the selection of nesting habitats. The specific adaptations to features of the nesting environment seem insufficent to explain selection. We suggest that interspecific differences in habitat preferences permit coexistence of species within mixed colonies by decreasing territorial aggression, which is especially detrimental to the subordinate species.
10.2307/1521697|Breeding and wintering herons and egrets have been monitored for 29 years in southern France and for 21 years in northwest Italy, 2 regions with internationally important populations. During this period, data were collected regularly on breeding success and nest site use and availability. Feeding habitat use and prey availability have also been assessed during a series of breeding seasons. We review some of the information collected during these long-term studies, and we appraise how this information contributes to understanding population regulation, assessing vulnerability factors, and setting conservation priorities. A minimum of 25 years of population monitoring appears to be necessary to witness 1 or more episodes of climate perturbations and to begin evaluating their effects on a population, though some questions e.g., those relating to breeding biology, may be answered during shorter periods. The appropriate spatial scale also depends on the question asked. The Camargue forms an ideal spatial unit for the study of breeding biology and population dynamics, i.e., a group of colonies that constitutes a discrete, relatively isolated population. The size of the latter allows assessment of numbers of breeding and wintering birds, of climatic conditions, of reproductive success, mortality and dispersal rates based on sightings of marked birds. However, for migrant species an assessment of the conditions in overwintering areas also is necessary. Conservation efforts have focused so far mainly on colony site protection. In Italy, this has led to the establishment of a network of nature reserves for colonially breeding Ardeidae. These measures have been successful, but a number of vulnerability factors exist which are more difficult to deal with. The largest heron population in northwest Italy depends for its food on ricefields and is therefore vulnerable to changing practices in rice cultivation. According to recent analyses environmental contaminant concentrations are not considered at present a serious problem in Italy. In the Camargue, management of freshwater marshes for hunting purposes and harvesting of reed (Phragmites australis) also destroy many of the Purple Heron's potential nesting sites.
10.2307/1521386|We describe the colonization of Barbados by the Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis) from initial settlement until 1990. The first egrets were observed in Barbados in 1956 as migrants that roosted at a location on the southern coast of the island. A permanent breeding colony was established at this location in 1972. Two additional breeding colonies were formed in the island in 1978 and 1980, and one permanent roosting colony in 1984. Suitable colony sites are unlikely to be yet limiting in Barbados, as colonies are established in very different vegetation types. Only two of the colonies are situated over water, suggesting that proximity to water is not a requirement for colony location in Barbados. Space limitation at the colony site does not appear to influence the formation of new colonies because: (1) the location of colonies at sites moved, expanded and contracted seasonally, (2) only 10-30% of all available space at a site was used in the four colonies, and (3) only between 33-60% of the space actually known to have been used at a site was in use at any given time. The colonies were evenly spaced around the island, suggesting the possibility that the distribution of new colonies is influenced by the advantage of minimizing foraging overlap between colonies. Population size on the island (in at least two of the four colonies) is still increasing. The size of the oldest and largest colony has changed little over the past three years. Weekly counts indicated that the number of birds in the roosting colony was negatively correlated with that in the breeding colonies, suggesting some short-term movement of birds between colonies.
10.2307/1521295|Snowy Egret (Egretta thula) and Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) nestlings from colonies in Texas, Rhode Island, and California and Great Egret (Casmerodius albus) nestlings from Texas were examined for eustrongylidosis, or infection by the parasitic nematode Eustrongylides spp. In 31% (24/77) of all broods examined, at least one nestling was infected. Snowy Egret broods from Texas were more frequently (100%) infected than those from California (20%) or Rhode Island (10%), and the prevalence of eustrongylidosis in 5- and 10-day-old Snowy Egret nestlings was higher in the Texas colony than the other two. Within the Texas colony, the frequency of eustrongylidosis was greater for Snowy Egret (100%) and Great Egret (80%) broods than for Black-crowned Night-Heron broods (12.5%). Also in Texas, eustrongylidosis was more frequent in 5-day-old Snowy Egret nestlings than 5-day-old Black-crowned Night-Heron or Great Egret nestlings, and in 10-day-old Snowy Egret nestlings than in 10-day-old Black-crowned Night-Heron nestlings. Eustrongylides spp. caused perforations of the gastrointestinal tract and peritonitis, particularly in Snowy Egrets.
10.2307/1521736|An adult Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) was observed catching fish attracted to pieces of bread thrown into the water near it. This is not strictly bait-fishing (baiting), since the heron did not manipulate the bait as has been documented for Butorides herons and Black-crowned Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax), but is similar to foraging behavior previously reported for a Great Egret (Casmerodias albus).
10.2307/1521066|Nesting Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) were studied at a number of barrier beaches and small islands of tidal salt marsh in New Jersey and the Eastern Shore of Maryland-Virginia from 1980 through 1982. Data were collected on clutch sizes, nest spacing, and nesting success. The principal null hypothesis tested was that no difference in reproductive success exists between beach and marsh habitats. Nests were monitored from egg-laying in mid-May until mid-July when young fledged. Clutch sizes varied among colonies and across years but no systematic effect of year, habitat, or colony size on mean clutch size per colony was detected. Analyses of nest productivity (estimated using both the Mayfield method and using a colony average) failed to reveal significant effects of habitat or colony size but showed a strong year effect. Storm tide flooding and egg chick disappearance (presumably predation by Herring Gulls Larus argentatus and Laughing Gulls L. atricilla nesting nearby) accounted for most nest failures. Losses due to both these mortality factors were unpredictable from year to year. Nest spacing in salt marsh colonies was much closer than it was on barrier beaches. In mixed-species colonies with Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger), distances between tern and skimmer nests were also much smaller in marsh colonies than they were on beaches. The limited amount of wrack (windrows of dead, matted vegetation) preferred by marsh-nesting terns probably explains these spacing differences. Several lines of evidence suggest that terns prefer beaches to marshes for nesting, however, the uncertainty of predation and flooding may often obscure any intrinsic differences in habitat quality. Long-term field studies are essential for testing hypotheses related to differential fitness of individuals among habitats.
10.2307/1521309|The diet of the Gentoo Penguin Pygoscelis papua at sub-Antarctic Marion Island was sampled by stomach pumping at monthly intervals from March 1984 to March 1985. Overall, fish accounted for 53% of the diet by mass, crustaceans 44% and cephalopods 2%. Crustaceans predominated between March and June 1984; a marked increase in the proportion of fish in July coincided with the start of egg laying by Gentoo Penguins. Fish accounted for almost all of the diet in January and March 1985. Juvenile nototheniid fish, in particular Notothenia squamifrons, formed the bulk of the fish component; myctophids and Channichthys rhinoceratus were less common. The pelagic euphausiid Euphausia vallentini accounted for about 50% by mass of the overall crustacean component lumped over the entire study period. The decapod shrimp Nauticaris marionis was the most important crustacean species consumed during June to September 1984. Cephalopods, predominantly octopods, were taken mainly in February and March 1985. The hypothesis that seasonal changes in diet occur in direct response to the arrival of crested penguins (Eudyptes spp) early in summer is not supported by the data. Changes in diet appear to reflect local changes in the availability of prey species within the inshore waters exploited by Gentoo Penguins.
10.2307/1521963|The feeding ecology of Great White Pelicans (Pelecanus onocrotalus) nesting at Lake Mikri Prespa was studied during 1984, 1985 and 1991. Chick diets consisted mainly of Alburnus spp. Prey length consumed by chicks, feeding frequencies and the distribution of meals delivered to chicks during the day varied throughout the rearing period. The investigation of the foraging sites revealed for the first time the utilization of Lakes Mikri and Megali Prespa, confirmed the regular use of the neighboring Lakes Chimaditis and Kastorias, proved the use of the Axios Delta (149 km from the colony) and provides evidence for the use of Lake Kerkini (182.5 km distance). The impact of Great White Pelicans on commercial fisheries of Mikri Prespa was slight; only 4% of the annual fish yield, while negligible for Lake Megali Prespa. A temporal pattern in the exploitation of the above mentioned sites was observed during the breeding season. Some conservation measures are recommended.
10.2307/1521644|We studied the diets of nestling Gull-billed Terns (Sterna nilotica) at colonies in coastal Virginia during the breeding seasons of 1995 and 1996 as part of a long-term study of the species. No previous quantitative assessments had been made of diets of this species anywhere along the Atlantic Coast, and only a few observations had been reported from other coastal areas in the southern United States. During 80 h of observations over the two seasons, 757 feeding observations were made, primarily at two colony sites. We examined how prey type (fish, marine invertebrates, terrestrial prey) and size were influenced by year, tide cycle, season (early and late) and age of the young (small chicks <7 d old versus large chicks >7 d). We did not find significant year differences, but all other factors revealed statistically significant results. Older (>7 d) chicks were fed relatively more terrestrial and marine invertebrate prey than were younger chicks. In June (early season), fewer fish and terrestrial prey were fed to chicks than later (July-August). Most prey were less than one bill length in size, with the majority of the smallest prey being marine invertebrates. Tide cycle influenced prey delivered with terrestrial prey becoming relatively more important during high and ebb periods than during low and flood tides when aquatic prey dominated. The major marine invertebrate prey taken was the fiddler crab (Uca spp.). Terrestrial prey consisted mostly of large odonates and orthopterans. Unlike earlier reports from Europe, we found no regurgitated food pellets in any of the colonies in either year. This study confirms that the Gull-billed Tern is an extremely opportunistic feeder and has adapted to a variety of habitats, helping to explain its cosmopolitan distribution.
10.2307/1521044|Hatching success of Herring Gulls (Larus argentatus) and Great Black-backed Gulls (Larus marinus) was examined at the Clark's Island (Plymouth County) and Dead Neck (Barnstable County) colonies in Massachusetts. Gulls placed their nests in three different habitats at Dead Neck and five different habitats on Clark's Island. I tagged and followed through hatching nests located 1) in open meadows, 2) under leafed-out vegetation, and 3) under vegetation either not leafed-out or dead. On Clark's Island, gulls also nested in the tops of trees and along the slope of a steep bank. A substantial number of Herring and Great Black-backed Gulls nested under vegetation either dead or not fully leafed. Herring Gulls also placed nests under leafy vegetation, but relatively few nests were found in open areas. Great Black-backed Gulls nested infrequently under fully leafed vegetation but seemed to prefer nesting in the open. Herring Gulls nesting in open areas experienced relatively poor hatching success compared to Great Black-backed Gull nests in the open. Larids nesting under vegetation were relatively successful hatching eggs. Factors of egg mortality may be habitat-specific. I discuss nest-site selection as a compromise within a temporal context between the adverse effects of weather and predators.
10.2307/1521573|We examined the calling behavior and flight paths of Franklin's Gulls (Larus pipixcan) as potential mechanisms for recruiting flock members. Away from the breeding colonies, high call rates of gulls in thermal flocks could facilitate the recruitment of other gulls into these flocks. Within the breeding colonies there was no evidence that calling by departing birds played a role in flock formation. Despite their linear flight paths, departing gulls spent more time flying over the colony than necessary. This behavior might increase the potential that a departing gull is detected by other gulls or might enable a departing gull to locate other departing gulls.
10.2307/1521602|We compared the distribution of shorebirds, wading birds, and seabirds in coastal habitats along the entire Pacific and Atlantic coasts of Panama in January 1993. For all birds combined, the greatest densities occurred on mudflats with mangrove swamps adjacent to ocean-upwelling zones in the Bay of Panama. Median densities on mudflats with mangroves were more than 26 times greater than on mudflats without mangroves, and more than 100 times greater than in habitats without mudflats and mangroves. Median density of shorebirds in sectors with mudflats and mangroves was more than 32 times greater than on mudflats without mangroves, and more than 1,000 times greater than densities in habitats without mudflats and mangroves. The respective median densities of seabirds and wading birds were 16 and 3 times greater on mudflats with mangroves than on mudflat without mangroves. We conclude that coastal waterbirds in Panama occur in greatest densities where a combination of geomorphological features and ocean upwelling lead to the formation of highly productive, broad mudflats backed by mangroves.
10.2307/1521139|We studied several communal roost sites of Grey Herons (Ardea cinerea) with respect to the adaptive significance of roost-site selection in this species. Observations are provided on site characteristics, patterns of attendance, and behavior of the birds present. The herons roosted at sites of very divergent characteristics, but mainly on the ground during daylight and on the tops of trees at night. Birds often shifted between roost sites in the evening. Adult herons tended to select significantly less exposed parts of a roost in cold weather. Flocking seems to favor the performance of certain behavioral postures. The behavior of the herons varied in the course of the day, and as a function of age, position in the roost, and weather. Roost-site selection seems to be determined both by anti-predator and energetic considerations. Birds probably switch to roosts in trees at night to escape from ground predators, which are much easier to detect during daylight. Roosts in trees, on the other hand, probably are energetically less advantageous.
10.2307/1521765|Restoration of the Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) to New England rivers requires, in part, an understanding of the use of habitat and prey by potential and known predators. We examined variation in habitat use by Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus), from April through June 1992-94 on ca. 288 km of the 2 primary tributaries and the mainstem of the Penobscot River, Maine. Our objectives were to quantify temporal and spatial variation in habitat use and test for selection of spring foraging habitats by cormorants. Cormorants forage during daylight hours only. To determine the distribution of foraging birds we conducted aerial surveys at intervals of <8 days. Counts from individual aerial surveys were analyzed relative to 9 river sections and used to examine selection of foraging habitats, such as free-flowing areas and the headponds and tailraces of dams. We defined selection as the difference between the proportionate length of each river section relative to the total river km available and the observed proportion of birds using each section. All birds observed from the aircraft within a river section were assumed to be foraging within that river section. Cormorants were first observed between 15 and 20 April in all 3 years. Individuals consistently selected (P < 0.05) against use of 2 large tributaries and sections >105 km north of the mouth of the mainstem. However, from late April through early June of all years, birds selected (P < 0.05) 4 of the 5 mainstem dams and the estuarine portion of the river. Cormorant use of dams remained at or above expected levels until the second week of June in all years. We suggest that cormorant selection for foraging areas adjacent to dams reflected a higher availability of prey, possibly due to delay and injury of migrating Atlantic salmon smolts. Cormorant selection of the estuarine portion of the Penobscot River was likely a response to a seasonally increasing availability and abundance of estuarine and marine prey, in addition to resident freshwater species and migrating smolts.
10.2307/1521047|Factors affecting distribution of Common Terns and Black Skimmers at an East Coast estuary were studied from 1 May to 31 May 1979. Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge contains extensive areas of tidal mudflats and salt marshes, as well as two freshwater impoundments. Common Terns were present from 3 May until 20 September, with peak numbers present during July following the breeding season. The number of tern flocks was influenced by tide height, wind direction and velocity, temperature, and cloud cover. The number of individuals was influenced by date, time of day, tide cycle, wind direction and velocity, and cloud cover. Terns rested on the ponds at mid tide, and fed on the bay at high tide. Black Skimmers were present from 30 April until 2 November, and peaked in September and October following the breeding season. The distribution of skimmers was influenced by tide height and direction, wind velocity and direction, and temperature. Skimmers generally roosted during high tide, and fed on the channels in the salt marshes adjacent to the ponds at low tide. In general, skimmers rested at high tide, whereas terns rested at low tides; and terns were more influenced by cloud cover and wind than were skimmers. I attributed these differences in use of Jamaica Bay National Wildlife Refuge to differences in feeding methods.
10.2307/1521434|The species composition of the prey of the Cape Gannet (Morus capensis) was monitored monthly at colonies at Lambert's Bay and Malgas Island in the southern Benguela system off western South Africa from 1977-78 to 1989. A modified form of the biplot procedure gave a parsimonious, descriptive summary of this time-series. The diet at Malgas Island showed much greater seasonality than at Lambert's Bay. Seasonal variations in the anchovy (Engraulis japonicus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) components of gannet diet conformed largely to the known distribution of these species. However, the gannet diets demonstrated a previously undocumented presence of adult anchovy off the western Cape, particularly in summer. The contribution of sardines to the diet increased from late 1984 at Malgas Island, and from late 1985 at Lambert's Bay, with corresponding decreases in anchovy and hake (Merluccius spp.) at Malgas Island and anchovy at Lambert's Bay. The occurrence of hake in gannet diets, available as trawler offal throughout the year in deeper waters, seems to be associated with a lack of shoaling fish inshore.
10.2307/1521380| The benefits of being in groups of different sizes varied in relation to habitat and sex for White-faced Ibises (Plegadis chihi) foraging in grasslands and wetlands in southeastern Uruguay. In the wetlands, flock sizes were larger, and interindividual distances shorter, than in grasslands. Females were proportionally more abundant in grasslands than in wetlands. Frequency of aggressions was similar between the two habitats, but the level of aggressiveness between individuals was higher in the wetlands. In this habitat, females would be more affected than males by interference due to agonistic behavior, as a result of domination by males. This could explain the low occurrence of females in wetlands, in spite of the fact that they captured more prey in wetlands than in grasslands. In the grasslands, however, interference due to prey disturbance was more important, because individuals in large flocks captured less prey than those in smaller flocks. This may have contributed to the greater interindividual distances in grasslands. Thus, two types of interference would determine the dynamics and composition of White-faced Ibis flocks. /// En este estudio mostramos que para los Cuervillos de Caada (Plegadis chihi) que se alimentaban en pastizales y humedales en el sureste de Uruguay, los beneficios de estar en grupos de diferente tamao variaron en relacin al hbitat y sexo. En los humedales, las bandadas fueron mayores y las distancias interindividuales menores que en los pastizales. Las hembras fueron proporcionalmente ms abundantes en los pastizales que en los humedales. La frecuencia de agresiones fue similar entre los dos hbitats, pero el nivel de agresividad entre individuos fue ms alto en los humedales. En este hbitat, las hembras resultaran ms afectadas que los machos por interferencia debida al comportamiento agresivo, ya que siempre fueron dominadas por los machos. Esto explicara la baja ocurrencia de las hembras en los humedales, a pesar de que en este hbitat capturaron ms presas que en los pastizales. La interferencia resultante de la perturbacin de las presas fue ms importante en los pastizales, ya que los individuos en bandadas grandes capturaron menos presas que aqullos en bandadas menores, lo que podra haber contribuido a las mayores distancias interindividuales en los pastizales. De esta forma, dos tipos de interferencia determinaran la dinmica y composicin de las bandadas del Cuervillo de Caada. 
10.2307/1521080|Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) vocalizations, like those of other nonpasserines, are diverse with figures overlapping among some calls. Six heron calls were examined; they could be classed according to apparent function as alarm, threat, possible social contact, or simple song. The two calls classed as songs, because they had a simple temporal patterning, were the Landing and Roh-roh-roh Calls. The Roh-roh-roh Call generally advertised a feeding territory, and a Landing Call was given as a heron returned to its nesting territory. These two songs are either closely related or synonymous and are given in similar contexts to the songs of passerines (i.e., to advertise an individual's presence at a territory).
10.2307/1521689|From 1991 to 1994, factors affecting body mass prior to egg-laying in Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) were studied. The principal findings were: 1) a high female body mass prior to egg-laying is associated with a high egg-mass, 2) females which were heavy on the day of egg-laying were mated with males which were heavy during courtship, 3) high total energy intake as well as high energy intake of marine prey were not correlated with female body mass but were correlated with early dates of clutch initiation, 4) early-laying females had higher mass than late breeders, 5) early laying was positively related to age in males and females. Both early laying and high egg mass are related to high reproductive success and are characteristics of high quality of individuals. Quality differences in the colony investigated seem to be related to the ability of using marine in contrast to limnetic foraging areas during courtship. The role of age and fishing ability is discussed.
10.2307/1521437|Five wetland areas along the south coast of Jamaica, previously reported (1977-1991) as nesting sites for Least Terns (Sterna antillarum), were resurveyed in 1992. Nesting colonies were found only at two former sites, a salina at Long Pond and a gravel island at Yallahs Salt Pond. Fifty adults and 22 nests were found on beach sand at Long Pond, whereas 25 adults and 24 nests were found nesting on small pebbles at Yallahs Salt Pond. Nesting was also observed at recently constructed sewage ponds at Greater Portmore, where 40 adults (18 nests) were found nesting on the beds of the empty ponds and dirt embankments. The study provides information on the status of nesting of this species in Jamaica, as well as providing a baseline for future management and research.
10.2307/1521539|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) are locally-abundant winter residents throughout Texas, but primarily occur east of the 100th meridian. Primary origins of banded cormorants recovered in Texas up to 1985 were Alberta, Saskatchewan, North and South Dakota, Montana, Manitoba, and Minnesota. A minimum of 40,000 to 60,000 cormorants have been documented during winter in Texas: actual populations likely are much higher. Cormorants frequently elicit criticism and conflict from recreational fishing interests, but winter diet is a variety of primarily nongame fishes. Conflicts at aquaculture facilities are more complex. Resolution of conflicts requires: (1) affirmation by resource agencies that some public fish resources are appropriately allocated to natural fish predators, (2) planning for fish predators in the scope of water development and fishery management projects, (3) increased responsibility of aquaculturists to document real losses to fish predators and plan for expected losses when developing new facilities, and (4) increased development of behavioral-based biological control strategies to deter such predators at fish facilities. An important future research goal should be estimation of the conditions under which fish populations in large recreational waters can be reduced by avian fish predators to the point of decline detectable by anglers.
10.2307/1521300|A review of the literature suggests that territorial behavior might limit the reproductive success of some wading birds that defend foraging territories. Indirect evidence indicates that population levels of non-territorial wading birds might be established by the availability of their food resources. However, it is unknown if density-dependent mechanisms acting on the amount of available food, as proposed by Lack (1966), is a mechanism that establishes limits on the growth of wading bird populations. Competition for food or foraging sites, as proposed by Lack (1966), was not sufficiently great for density-dependent effects to appear. An hypothesis is described in which population levels of breeding wading birds are established by the survival of immatures that can catch sufficient food to survive their first winter.
10.2307/1521726| We studied crossing distances, behavior, and mortality of Dark-rumped Petrels (Pterodroma phaeopygia sandwichensis) and Newell's Shearwaters (Puffinus auricularis newelli) around a power line on Kauai, Hawaii, in the summers of 1993-1994. Both species crossed this power line at significantly smaller distances in the morning (while flying to sea) than in the evening (while flying inland). In the morning, birds flew at higher flight altitudes at locations 800 m inland than at nearby coastal locations. Approximately 5% of each species exhibited behavioral responses while crossing power lines; only Dark-rumped Petrels exhibited a significantly higher frequency of response in the morning than in the evening, however. Most of the Newell's Shearwaters that were killed in summer collided with power lines while on their way to sea, primarily at power lines <100 m from the coast and in valleys. Approximately 20% of the shearwaters killed were adults; most of the remainder were subadult, nonbreeding birds. 
10.2307/1521558|We fitted growth curves to mass, culmen, flipper, and foot measurements from 52 King Penguin (Aptenodytes patagonicus) chicks from 1984 (N = 175 data points), and 53 chicks from 1989 (N = 162 data points), from the Archway Bay colony, Marion Island, Prince Edward Islands group in the southern Indian Ocean. Early-hatching chicks (before 7 February) appeared to grow more slowly, but still had sufficient time to achieve near-adult proportions and gain mass before the onset of the winter fast (early June). This presumably improved their chances of surviving the 3 - 4 month period of either little or no food. Despite showing a trend towards faster growth rates, chicks hatching after 7 February were smaller at the onset of fasting, and did not gain additional mass. Culmen growth continued throughout the fledging period, but was slowest during fasting. Chicks surviving the winter period had greater pre-fast body masses than those that died; a mean of 41.3% of peak pre-fast body mass was lost by survivors before feeding recommenced. Some adults appeared to be better quality provisioners of chicks, as evidenced by certain chicks with similar hatching dates being fed for a longer period before winter, and some chicks being fed at least once during winter. Also, some chicks had relatively high pre-fast and fledging masses.
10.2307/1521505|The effects of egging on Glaucous-winged Gull colonies in Skidegate Inlet, Queen Charlotte Islands, British Columbia, were investigated. Egging occurred in the four largest of 18 colonies examined. It caused total reproductive failure in one colony, and it had minimal effect on three other colonies. Egging was the highest cause of mortality, followed by that of eggs being washed out of nests by waves during high tide. The clutch size and hatching success of gulls in colonies disturbed by egging was much lower, and egg-laying was significantly later than in colonies that were not disturbed.
10.2307/1521557|We examined the characteristics of foraging sites of Wood Storks (Mycteria americana) from the Birdsville colony in east-central Georgia. The storks foraged in many of the available wetland habitats, including swamps, ponds and marshes as well as drainage ditches and flooded logging roads. However, based on the availability of the foraging habitat types in the area from satellite imagery, they fed more frequently than expected in open habitats such as ponds and marshes. Foraging sites were characterized by still or slow-moving water that was <50 cm deep with sparse aquatic and woody vegetation. There was considerable variation in prey density at foraging sites, but most sites had low densities (median = 2.67 items/ m<sup>2</sup>). Storks fed singly or in small groups. The number of storks was not related to most measured habitat characteristics, but was negatively related to density of submergent vegetation. Wetlands not visited by storks did not differ from stork foraging sites in water quality (except turbidity), vegetation characteristics or prey density. There seems to be an abundance of suitable foraging sites and storks do not use them all. We suggest that, in Georgia where there is an abundance of wetlands but most have low prey densities, it is not advantageous for storks to feed in large flocks.
10.2307/1521725| During November and December 1994 and December 1995, the diving behavior of nine Magellanic Penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) breeding at Peninsula Valds, Argentina was studied using time/depth recorders. Birds spent most of their time underwater close to the surface although there was extensive activity at depths around 60 m. Maximum dive depth recorded was 97 m which likely reflects the water depth. Maximum dive depth was clearly regulated by ambient light intensity and no individual ever dived deeper than 12 m during darkness. There were positive relationships between a number of dive parameters and maximum depth reached during the dive: total dive duration, descent duration, ascent duration, bottom duration (the time spent at the deepest part of the dive), rate of change of depth during the descent and rate of change of depth during the ascent. The dive patterns exhibited by Magellanic Penguins were similar to those of other penguin species. More detailed comparison with other congeners showed differences in dive angles and dive durations as a function of maximum dive depth. These could not, however, be definitively ascribed to species-specific differences because intra-specific inter-site variability appears high. 
10.2307/1521457|Stomach contents were analyzed from Atlantic Puffins (Fratercula arctica) killed during winter near the Faroe Islands, Denmark (N = 25), or in the Norwegian Sea 296-740 km to the north (N = 11). The diet of the birds in the two areas were strikingly different. Offshore, puffins fed almost exclusively on the Glacier Lantern Fish (Benthosema glaciale) and on squid (Gonatus fabricii). In shelf waters around the Faroes, the diet was dominated by euphausiid crustaceans (mainly Thysanoessa inermis) and a variety of fish species (Ammodytes sp., Mallotus villosus, and others). Polychaete worms were present in small numbers in both samples. The results confirm that invertebrates may play a significant role in the diet of adult puffins; however, a rough estimate indicated that on a mass basis, fish (ranging in length from 4 to 14 cm) were the most important prey type in both the samples examined.
10.2307/1521004| Morphometric parameters of the cornea and lens were studied in fledglings, yearlings and adult penguins (Spheniscus magellanicus) that were collected in several locations of Chubut, Argentina. Enucleated eyes were studied by direct inspection and light or scanning electron microscopy. No developmental differences in corneal diameters were detected. However, in adult birds, the horizontal diameter was significantly longer than the vertical diameter. Lens equatorial diameter and anteroposterior thickness were slightly longer in yearlings than in fledglings, but they had almost the same dimensions in adult birds. The lens index (i.e., the ratio between those two parameters) was the same in the different age groups and indicated that the penguin lens is one of the most spherical among avian lenses. The lens weight of yearlings was slightly higher than that of fledglings, but our observations suggest that lens growth is minimal after the first year of life. The lack of significant differences between these ocular parameters in young and adult penguins implies that fledglings would be as optically able as their adult counterparts. /// Se estudiaron distintos caracteres de la crnea y del cristalino en pinginos volantones, de un ao y adultos capturados en varias localidades de Chubut, Argentina. Los ojos enucleados fueron examinados directamente o con microscopa de luz y de barrido electrnico. No se detectaron diferencias en los dimetros corneales de los distintos grupos de edad. Sin embargo, en los especmenes adultos, el dimetro horizontal era significativamente ms largo que el vertical. Los dimetros ecuatorial y anteroposterior del cristalino eran ligeramente mayores en los pinginos de un ao que en los volantones, pero no se encontraron diferencias con respecto al cristalino de los adultos. El ndice cristaliniano (la relacin entre esos dos dimetros) fue el mismo en todos los grupos de edad, e indicaba que el cristalino del pingino es uno de los ms esfricos entre los de las aves. Aunque el peso del cristalino es un poco mayor en el pingino de un ao que en los volantones, nuestras observaciones sugieren que el crecimiento del cristalino es mnimo despus del primer ao de vida. La falta de diferencias significativas entre los parmetros oculares correspondientes a pinginos de diversas edades indica que los volantones seran pticamente tan desarrollados como los especmenes de mayor edad. 
10.2307/1521611|Black Tern numbers have seriously decreased over most of Europe. Declines have been most severe in western Europe, e.g., in The Netherlands, where a 95% decline has been recorded since the beginning of the century. The causes for this decline likely include loss of safe nesting places and loss of diversity in food organisms (notably large insects) during the chick rearing phase, the latter due to eutrophication of surface waters. Lack of prey diversity leads to an increased risk of temporary absence of suitable prey, which can result in chick starvation. Black Tern chicks cannot develop and mature on insects alone. They may need an additional calcium source, usually fish. In acid waters devoid of fish, calcium deficiency leads to malformation and death in chicks.
10.2307/1521344|At least one pair of Little Terns (Sterna albifrons) attempted to nest on Saipan in the spring of 1988 and again in 1989. This locality is the first known record of this species breeding in the tropical Pacific (Micronesia and Polynesia). Combined with increased numbers during migration, these records indicate the possibility of establishing a breeding population over 2000 km from the nearest known present populations.
10.2307/1521063|Foraging areas, techniques, and schedules of wintering Herring Gulls, Larus argentatus, Ring-billed Gulls, L. delawarensis, and Bonaparte's Gulls, L. philadelphia, were studied in Dunkirk Harbor on southeastern Lake Erie. All three species foraged in the outflows, breakwall, pier, and open water areas of the harbor, but beach and park areas were used only by the two larger species. The same area often was used differently by each species and age class within a species. Bonaparte's Gulls used only the techniques of plunge and surface diving. Ring-billed and Herring Gulls used these techniques as well as scavenging and foraging for invertebrates by walking along the shore. Adult and first year Bonaparte's and Ring-billed Gulls had bimodal patterns in daily foraging activity. All species showed seasonal changes in foraging patterns that corresponded to the onset and passing of severe winter climatic conditions. Uniformly greater levels of foraging activity were observed in first-year gulls.
10.2307/1521439|Dark-morph Egretta spp. in the Palearctic region have been reported since 1869. Dark-morph Egretta garzetta are established and breed in Israel. Dark-morph E. gularis breed in southern Sinai and on Tiran Island in the Gulf of Suez, about 500 km away. Accordingly, in Israel, there are two "types" of dark-morph individuals that differ morphologically in conformity with the traditional taxonomy of Egretta spp. Review of reported observations indicates that both dark-morph "types" appeared in the Palearctic independently, about 100 years apart. It is suggested that E. garzetta dark specimens joined local populations as a result of mixing of migratory Palearctic populations with African resident populations. E. gularis probably appeared as a casual influx of solitary birds from African migratory populations, reinforced by importation of specimens from Asia to Europe since 1980. A reliable genetic study is necessary in order to solve the taxonomic status of Egretta genus. This will help to explain the source of dark-morph Egrets in Israel and set priorities for conservation and management of the widespread Egretta populations.
10.2307/1521062|Timed foraging observations were made on White-faced Herons (Ardea novaehollandiae) that were closely following Australian White Ibises (Threskiornis molucca) and those that were foraging alone. When all data were considered, the herons foraging alone attacked and captured more prey, and acquired more energy. When data for herons using ibises for short durations were excluded, herons foraging alone had a slightly higher rate of energy intake, but the difference was not statistically significant. Herons closely following ibises were involved in frequent hostile interactions with other herons, which was not the case for herons foraging alone.
10.2307/1520964|The information-center hypothesis remains a widely debated explanation for the evolution of nesting colonies and communal roosts. I develop simple cost-benefit models to explore conditions under which (i) individuals followed from the colony ("leaders") should tolerate others following them, and (ii) potential followers should be willing to contest with leaders for the right to follow them. Apparently important variables for leaders are the cost of competition induced by tolerating followers, the cost of deterring others, and the probability of being successful in deterrence attempts. The behavior of followers also should be influenced by the probability of deterrence, as well as the cost of searching for a profitable feeding area on one's own, relative to the costs of competition in the feeding area induced by following others. Exposition of the models here is an attempt to identify one key component of the information-center hypothesis and to render its predictions quantifiable and testable.
10.2307/1521209|The abundance, distribution, and habitat selection of postbreeding Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias), Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerulea), Green-backed Herons (Butorides striatus), and Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) were studied in Oklahoma from 1978 to 1980. A stratified random sample of 1/4-sections of land area (totaling more than 29,000 ha) was used to sample wetland habitats and postbreeding distribution of wading birds. The numbers of postbreeding Great Blue Herons present in Oklahoma were estimated at 9,000, 11,000, and 8,000 in late summer, early winter, and late winter. Estimated numbers of Little Blue Herons, Green-backed Herons, and Cattle Egrets present in late summer were 36-42,000, 18-32,000, and 36-40,000, respectively. All four species used unmodified natural palustrine wetlands and rivers more than expected relative to the abundance and area of natural wetlands in the state. Farm ponds with mud substrates and lacking submergent and emergent vegetation were especially avoided by wading birds. These ponds comprised about 80% of the basins and 35% of the surface water area, excluding reservoirs, but contained <20% of the state's wading birds other than Cattle Egrets. Natural wetlands in riparian and floodplain regions appear especially important to postbreeding wading birds in Oklahoma.
10.2307/1521253| The population size and stability of 14 Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) colonies in north and central Florida were monitored during 1981-1985. Individual colonies ranged in size from 29 to 456 nests (x  sd = 125.8  18.36 nests), but exhibited considerable intercolony (cv = 73.1-101.6%) and intracolony (cv = 11.3-158.9%) variation in size. The mean (sd) intracolony reproductive rate ranged from 0.21  0.42 to 1.54  0.27 fledglings per nest. There appears to be little correlation within colonies among number of nests, reproductive rate, and precipitation. The 14 colony-population averaged 1760.8  255.7 nests/year. Although there was much interyear-intracolony variation during the 5-year period, the north-central Florida stork population as a whole appears relatively stable (cv = 17.2%). /// Se estudiaron el tamao de la poblacin y la estabilidad de 14 colonias de Cigea Maderera (Mycteria americana) en el centro y norte de la Florida de 1981-1985. Las colonies individuales variaron en tamao de 29-456 nidos (x  desviacin standard = 125.8  18.36 nidos), pero hubo una significativa variatin de tamao entre las colonias (cv=73.1-101.6%) y tambien dentro de las colonias (cv=11.3-158.9%). El promedio (d.s.) de la velocidad de reproduccin dentro de las colonias vari de 0.21  0.42 a 1.54  0.27 pajaritos por nido. Parece naber es casa correlacin entre el nmero de nidos, la velocidad de reproduccin y la precipitacin que afect las colonias. El total de la poblacin de las 14 colonias promedi 1760.8  255.7 nidos por ao. A pesar de haber mucha variacin anual dentro de cada colonia durante el periodo de 5 aos, la totalidad de la poblacin de cigeas del centro y norte de la Florida parece ser relativamente estable (cv=17.2%). 
10.2307/1521415|Data are presented on feed size and feeding periodicity in White-tailed Tropicbirds (Phaethon lepturus), collected by periodic (three hour interval) "blind weighing" methodology during 1984. These data are then examined in light of provisioning data collected by direct observational methodology during 1985-86. As blind weighing methodology cannot identify specific food delivery intervals and specific food payloads with specific individual adults, factors that regulate adult provisioning patterns cannot be identified. An alternative to the NET/SUM regression (regressing the chick's change in total body mass in a 24-hour period (=NET) over the sum of daily positive mass increments (=SUM)) for the assignment of number of feedings to chick-days is presented: the regression of mass loss during the resting period (=RML) over SUM. The latter method has higher r<sup>2</sup> values and misjudges fewer feed numbers of specific chick-days. While the slopes of both the NET/SUM and the RML/SUM statistical treatments may suggest the number of feedings that produced a particular daily sum, they should not be taken as direct measures of conversion efficiency or growth.
10.2307/1521382|We studied the effects of several biotic and abiotic factors on the use of freshwater and estuarine foraging sites by breeding egrets and ibises in 1988 near Staten Island, New York City. Great Egrets, Snowy Egrets, and Glossy Ibises accounted for 90% of all wading birds observed at two study sites: a large freshwater pond and a tidal estuary. We found pronounced interspecific differences in the use of these two foraging sites. Time of day and phase of the breeding season were important variables for Great Egrets, but tide level and pond water level were not. The use of these foraging sites by Snowy Egrets also differed according to time of day, but for this smaller species, both tide level and pond water level were important variables. Glossy Ibises used the freshwater and estuarine sites irrespective of time of day, but the use of both feeding sites was influenced by tide level and pond water level. Great Egrets caught fish with similar efficiency in fresh water and estuaries, whereas Snowy Egrets were more efficient in fresh water than in estuaries. Fish caught in traps were significantly larger at three estuary sites than those caught at the freshwater pond. Intra- and interspecific behavioral interactions between foraging birds restricted the use of the freshwater pond but not the estuary, which may affect the use of these two feeding sites.
10.2307/1521143| All active nests of Common Terns (Sterna hirundo), Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) and Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) in the eastern half of the North Channel, Lake Huron, Canada, were counted in 1980 and 1984. Between 1980 and 1984 the following changes in nest numbers occurred: Common Terns decreased from 1322 nests at 19 colony sites to 1293 nests at 34 colony sites. Caspian Terns increased from 547 nests at 2 colony sites to 650 nests at 2 colony sites, and Double-crested Cormorants increased from 81 nests at 2 colony sites to 569 nests at 7 colony sites. /// Tous les nids occups d Sternes communes (Sterna hirundo), de Sternes caspiennes (Sterna caspia) et de Cormorans  aigrettes (Phalacrocorax auritus) dans la partie est du chenal Nord ont t numrs en 1980 et en 1984. Entre 1980 et 1984 nous avons not les changements suivants dans les nombres de nids: les Sternes communes ont diminu de 1322 nids (19 colonies)  1293 nids (34 colonies), les Sternes caspiennes ont augment de 547 nids (2 colonies)  650 nids (2 colonies) et les Cormorans  aigrettes ont augment de 81 nids (2 colonies)  569 nids (7 colonies). 
10.2307/1521393| Collared Pratincoles in Seville used marshland and farmland (mostly cotton fields) habitats for breeding with approximately equal frequency. However, since marshland availability is only 3% of that of farmland, Collared Pratincoles preferred marshland. In both marshland and farmland, low vegetation cover and dry soil are important factors for settlement. In farmland, flat terrain is important as well. Most nests were formed on scrapes on dry mud. In farmland, more nests are laid on plant rows than between them, an important determinant of survival during work in the field. Management practices for pratincole colonies in marshland and farmland should include control of grazing, vegetation cover, water level and coordination of agricultural work with pratincole breeding activity. /// Las canasteras en el rea de estudio nidifican aproximadamente en igual nmero en terrenos de marisma y en campos de cultivo (principalmente algodn). Sin embargo, la disponibilidad de zonas de marisma es un 3% de la de cultivos, por lo que las canasteras prefieren terrenos de marismas para criar. Factores importantes para el asentamiento de las colonias son, que el terreno sea llano, est seco y que tenga una cobertura de vegetacin baja. Las canasteras hacen la mayora de las puestas directamente en barro seco. En cultivos, hay ms nidos en las lneas de plantas que entre ellas. Esto es importante para la supervivencia de los nidos cuando empiezan los trabajos en el terreno de cultivo. Se sugieren algunas lneas de manejo como el control del ganado, cobertura de la vegetacin y del nivel de agua, o la coordinacin en el tiempo de ciertos trabajos agrcolas y la actividad de reproduccin de las canasteras. 
10.2307/1521306|The diet of Western Gulls (Larus occidentalis) nesting on Alcatraz Island (San Francisco County, California) was investigated for the breeding seasons of 1983, 1984, and 1985. The major food types on Alcatraz were garbage (>90% of which was chicken) and fish. Adults fed heavily on garbage early in the season, but switched to small fish later in the breeding season. Study of the diets of individual pairs revealed that the switch occurred when the eggs hatched. Experiments in which eggs were switched between nests to alter the timing of hatching also provided evidence that chick hatching triggers dietary switches. Hatching is known to alter many aspects of parental behavior in gulls, and prey choice appears to be another.
10.2307/1521452|Competition for space in waterbird colonies can be mitigated through habitat partitioning. In 36 Italian heronries, Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax), Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta), and Squacco Herons (Ardeola ralloides) were associated more frequently than random, whereas a significant avoidance was found between Grey Herons (Ardea cinerea) and Purple Herons (Ardea purpurea), which co-occurred in five heronries but always in separate subcolonies. We found vertical alignment of species in the sequence: Grey Heron at the highest levels, Black-crowned Night-Heron, Little Egret, and Squacco Heron at the intermediate levels, and Purple Heron at the lowest levels. This sequence parallels the relative body size of the species and the time of settlement at the heronries, except in the case of Purple Herons. This confirms the hypothesis that species tend to align vertically through vegetation in direct relation to their body size, although with the exception that Purple Herons nest at lower elevations than expected. We suggest that this exception may be due to exclusion by Grey Herons: these two herons segregated completely by breeding in different heronries and subcolonies, by using different vegetation types, and by species turnover in the same heronries in the years when separate subcolonies were not available. An optimal scheme for the management of wetland patches as nesting sites for herons is proposed for a reserve network. This network in northern Italy protects heronry sites and includes the last residual patches of wetland in an area of intensive cultivation.
10.2307/1521546|This paper summarizes a symposium on the biology and management of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) and its interactions with aquaculture. Populations of the Double-crested Cormorant in North America have increased rapidly since 1972, following a period in which they were reduced by toxic effects of DDE. The Double-crested Cormorant is perceived to be a significant pest of aquaculture, especially the catfish industry in the southern United States. Information on the breeding biology, population dynamics and feeding ecology of the species is incomplete. Although some information on predation of Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) by cormorants in aquaculture facilities was presented, there is insufficient information on predator-prey relationships or input-output functions to assess fully the ecological or economic significance of this predation. Double-crested Cormorants are controlled in many areas, but there is little quantitative information on the effects of such control. Management activities have limited scientific basis and are driven largely by political considerations. Although more research is needed to improve the scientific basis for management, it is uncertain whether the cost of such a research program would be justified by the potential benefits.
10.2307/1521497| Since Cullen's (1957) classic paper, many new Kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla) displays have been described and the significance of some others have been reinterpreted. These advances in our knowledge of the Kittiwake's repertoire cast further light on the topic of its behavioral adaptations to cliff nesting. The behavioral convergences between the Kittiwake and two other colonial cliff nesting birds: the Gannet (Sula bassana) and the Black Noddy (Anous tenuirostris), and the behavioral similarities with other cliff nesting larids strongly suggest that the behavior of these three species has become highly differentiated as result of natural selection leading to adaptations to cliff nesting. /// Depuis l'tude classique de Cullen (1957) de nombreuses postures ont t dcrites chez la Mouette tridactyle (Rissa tridactyla). D'autres ont t compltement rinterprtes sur un plan fonctionnel. Ces amliorations de notre connaissance de l'thogramme de cette espce apportent un clairage nouveau sur la question de son adaptation comportementale  la nidification en falaise. Les nombreuses convergences comportementales mises en vidence entre la Mouette tridactyle et deux autres espces nichant en falaise: le Fou de Bassan (Sula bassana) et le Noddy noir (Anous tenuirostris), ainsi que les similitudes comportementales avec d'autres larids nichant en falaise, confortent l'interprtation selon laquelle les particularits comportementales de ces trois espces rsultent de leur adaptation  la nidification en falaise. 
10.2307/1521263|The status of Storks in captivity is summarized. Only five of nineteen species have bred in captivity, but recently additional zoos are placing storks into breeding exhibits.
10.2307/1521355|In southern New Jersey, mixed-species foraging aggregations of wading birds occurred daily on salt marsh pools where they exploited dense fish populations. The species observed, in order of abundance, were the Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), Laughing Gull (Larus atricilla), Great Egret (Casmerodius alba), Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus), Forster's Tern (Sterna Forsteri), Common Tern (S. hirundo), Little Blue Heron (Egretta caerulea), and Tricolored Heron (E. tricolor). Aggregations probably assembled around Snowy Egrets. Most individuals in aggregations occupied positions within pools similar to those used when foraging alone. Numbers of individuals declined over the duration of an aggregation, probably in response to diminishing prey populations. Mean aggregation size and species richness peaked in late July and early August and declined significantly by September in response to recruitment of young, post-breeding dispersal, and migration, respectively. The proportion of most species within aggregations remained relatively constant over the duration of an aggregation and on a monthly basis. Other studies in temperate, subtropical, and tropical habitats also reported formation of aggregations around white-plumaged birds and periodic replenishment of prey populations.
10.2307/1521228|The reproductive success and breeding chronology of Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) and Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerulea) were studied in Terra Ceia and Tampa Bays, Florida, USA. Cattle Egret breeding cycles and associated environmental parameters, clutch size, and nestling survivorship were similar during 1979 and 1980. Despite significantly less rainfall in 1976, Little Blue Heron breeding cycles were similar during 1976, 1977, 1979, and 1980. However, smaller clutches and nestling survivorship per nest were correlated with lower rainfall in 1976.
10.2307/1520998|The winter range of the Dovekie (Alle alle) off Atlantic Canada is described, with particular reference to the southern Scotian Shelf, and the southern Grand Banks. The biggest concentrations in both areas were found over the shelf-break, at the outer edge of the Coastal Water zone. The birds were attracted to dense swarms of zooplankton, apparently concentrated at the well-defined Shelf/Slope-Water Boundary front. On the Grand Banks, the birds were abundant on the western slope of the Tail of the Bank, influenced by the Gulf Stream, but avoided the eastern slope, influenced by the Labrador Current.
10.2307/1521954|From 1988 to 1990, Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) used all available feeding habitats in the study area, i.e., saltmarshes, freshwater habitats and rice fields (breeding season primarily). Freshwater habitats were preferred during pre-breeding, breeding and post-breeding periods. However, foraging success there was generally lower than in other habitats; a considerable part of the Little Egret population simply used this habitat type without feeding possibly due to manmade habitat alterations that took place during the study period. Saltmarshes were an important habitat: Little Egrets foraged exclusively there in March, and in the pre- and post-breeding periods foraging success was generally higher than in other freshwater habitats. In rice fields, Little Egrets had a generally greater foraging success than in the other habitats in two of the three study years. Conservation of feeding habitats should include prey management and protection from further habitat degradation.
10.2307/1521603|We captured 575 Xantus' Murrelets (Synthliboramphus hypoleucus) with spotlights and dip nets at 3 islands in the Southern California Channel Islands during April and May of 1995-1997. Working at night (2100-0500 h), 3-person teams in inflatable boats located murrelets with a spotlight and captured them in dip nets from the waters near known breeding colonies at Santa Barbara, Anacapa, and San Clemente Islands. Our average capture rate was 4.7 murrelets hr<sup>-1</sup>, but we captured up to 12.3 murrelets hr<sup>-1</sup>. We recaptured 34 murrelets or 6% of the capture total. We recommend this simple, inexpensive, safe and effective night-lighting capture technique for Xantus' Murrelets and other seabirds.
10.2307/1521941|The Mediterranean Sea is the largest partially enclosed sea in the world and provides habitat to more than 100 species of waterbirds from the Palearctic-North African-Middle Eastern regions. Even though the Mediterranean suffers from pollution, has little tidal influence, and is oligotrophic, more than half of the western Palearctic populations of numerous waterfowl species winter in the region. Thirty-three species of colonial waterbirds breed along the 46,000 km Mediterranean coastline with nine species considered threatened or endangered, mostly because of wetland loss and degradation. The long history of human activity and scientific investigations in the region has taught some valuable lessons. In the area of colonial waterbird biology and conservation, we have learned important lessons about the value of long-term monitoring and research on selected populations. From marking studies of Greater Flamingos (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) and Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) results have been used to derive useful information about metapopulation dynamics. Involvement of both African and European biologists allowed year-round studies of these species that yielded valuable spin-offs for training in avian and wetland conservation. We have also learned the value of man-made wetlands as feeding and nesting sites for some colonial waterbirds. Careful evaluations of the habitat quality of different types of wetlands are required, as in contaminant levels such as lead shot and pesticides. Wetland conservationists have also learned from some instructive mistakes. Dam construction and agricultural incentive programs sponsored by the European Community, the World Bank, and others from the past have largely ignored impacts on wetlands and wildlife. In some areas, economic ventures such as aquaculture operations and salt mining have not involved waterbird habitat needs in their planning. Research and conservation needs include: (1) establishing regional monitoring programs and data banks for seabirds, wading birds, ducks, and geese; (2) implementing a wetland inventory for many countries with little quantitative data on wetlands; (3) improving habitat quality assessments; (4) improving relationships with industry, the private citizenry, and government officials to further an appreciation for the value of wetlands and waterbirds; (5) enhancing training efforts, especially in underdeveloped countries; (6) evaluating the effects of hunting and other disturbances to nesting and feeding waterbirds in different regions; (7) setting up "sister-reserve" (twinned) sites in Europe and Africa to foster international linkages and training: and (8) fostering local-regional conservation programs to preserve reed beds, wet woodlots, and other key habitats.
10.2307/1521011| We collected eggs or young Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) from eight nesting colonies in the northwestern United States from 1977 through 1982. Subadults were collected at three estuarine areas in Puget Sound in 1981 and dead young or adults were collected at various localities. Nearly all samples analyzed contained residues of DDE and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs); small residues of 10 other organic contaminants were detected infrequently. Maximum residues (wet weight) in eggs were 26 g/g DDE and 13 g/g PCBs. Livers of adults from Puget Sound contained up to 5 g/g PCBs. Maximum residues of DDE and PCBs in livers of prefledgling Great Blue Herons from three colonies were only 0.45 and 1.20 g/g, respectively. Maximum residues in whole bodies of hatchlings found dead at Lake Chatcolet, Idaho were 21 g/g DDE and 11 g/g PCBs. On a colony basis, eggshell thinning averaged from 4 to 13%. Multiple regression analysis indicated that DDE and PCBs accounted for 26 and 3%, respectively, of the variability in eggshell thickness. There was no evidence that any of the organochlorines detected were related to lethal or serious sublethal effects. 
10.2307/1521537|A bioenergetics model was constructed and evaluated for estimating Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) energy expenditures, food demand and impact on the Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) industry in the Delta region of Mississippi. Large body mass (mean = 2.27 kg) and higher basal metabolism (115% to 128% of predicted) resulted in an average predicted food demand of 504 g/bird/day (range: 449 to 551) from November to March or 22% of body mass. Factoring in population sizes and proportional intake of catfish, Double-crested Cormorants may have eaten up to 20 million catfish per winter in 1989-90 and 1990-91 or approximately 4% of the estimated standing crop at a replacement cost of $2 million (US$) annually. More than 50% of catfish losses were projected to occur in February and March; negligible losses occurred in November.
10.2307/1521503| The breeding success of Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) in a mixed-species colony was monitored from 1985 through 1988 in Perry and Hale counties, Alabama, USA. A variety of physical and temporal characteristics of each nest were quantified to investigate their influence on breeding success. Mean clutch size ( SEM) over four years was 2.900.03 eggs per nest (N = 930 nests) and did not vary significantly (P > 0.05) among the years. Clutch size decreased during the late nesting season from a mean of 3.05 in May to 2.17 in July. Clutch size did not correlate significantly with nest density, nest height, tree height, or tree diameter. An average of 1.860.04 chicks hatched per nest. The location of a nest within the colony (i.e. central or peripheral) did not correlate with hatching success. The percent hatch did not vary significantly during the nesting season. Nests lower than 1.2m hatched significantly fewer eggs. Hatching success was greater in areas of high nest densities. Overall, 1.110.03 chicks per nest survived to 12 days of age. Survivorship was significantly higher in peripheral than central nests in 1988, but not in other years. Survivorship was positively correlated with nest height and density, but negatively correlated with clutch size. 
10.2307/1521416|We radio-tagged and followed the movements of six Common Murres (Uria aalge), three Razorbills (Alca torda) and one Atlantic Puffin (Fratercula arctica) that were feeding young, and two Common Murres that were incubating on the Isle of May, Firth of Forth, Scotland. While there was some overlap in feeding areas among the three species, there were also marked differences. Razorbills were more likely to feed well away from the colony and, in contrast to Common Murres and the Atlantic Puffin, rarely dived close to the island. Razorbills appeared to favor areas of relatively shallow water. Individual birds did not show strong fidelity to a particular feeding area, nor did the location of feeding areas change on a day-to-day basis.
10.2307/1521867|We describe three cases of kleptoparasitic behavior, one of which was successful, by American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) directed at Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias). Observations were made in coastal Louisiana, USA during winter.
10.2307/1521740| Bill length can be used to sex Eared Grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) with >90% accuracy. Of birds with a bill 23.5 mm, 88.4% were females; 92.4% of those 24.5 mm were males; in the intervening range the sex ratios was unity. These data can be used to infer the sex of individual birds and to provide information on sex ratios in wild populations. 
10.2307/1521037|In 1969 White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) colonized a 0.7 ha island in Riverside Reservoir, Weld County, Colorado. For at least 19 years prior to colonization, the island, which was 70% vegetated with vigorous stands of sandbar willow (Salix exigua) shrubs, had changed little in size due to an apparent equlibrium between erosion and deposition of sandy soils. By 1977, following 9 consecutive seasons of pelican nesting, 30% of the island's area had been lost due to an erosion-deposition imbalance that accompanied an 85% reduction in the area vegetated with willows. Willows in the vicinity of pelican nests appeared as dead or dying stubble after several consecutive seasons of physical abuse and manuring by nesting pelicans. Unlike pelicans studied elsewhere, those at Riverside normally did not totally shift colony locations on the island from year to year. Colony sites associated with willows shifted position slightly from one year to the next, however, following the receding edges of the willow stands. The only completely abandoned colony site was subsequently invaded by herbaceous plants.
10.2307/1521914|Brandt's Cormorants (Phalacrocorax penicillatus) occur commonly in the nearshore waters of California. To understand their impacts on subtidal communities, this study examined four variables of habitat use by foraging cormorants: 1) substrate type (i.e. rocky/sandy), 2) percent-cover of kelp-forest canopy and understory/groundcover algae, 3) exposure to heavy winds and seas, and 4) proximity to nesting/roosting areas. Brandt's Cormorants were observed foraging in two distinct ways: alone (46% of total foraging) or in close association with other cormorants and seabirds (54%). Cormorants foraging alone used rocky reef habitats significantly more than habitats with sandy bottoms (P < 0.05); however, cormorants foraging in groups showed no substrate preference (P = 0.32). Distance from nearest colony/roost and percent kelp-forest cover was positively correlated with solitary-foraging by cormorants (P < 0.02), but only the former showed a correlation with group-foraging (P < 0.05). There was no correlation between solitary- or group-foraging and understory/groundcover algae. Both solitary- and group-foraging cormorants appeared disproportionately to use sites that were less subject to long-term exposure to heavy winds and seas.
10.2307/1521482|We measured the food intake and weights of known-aged Common Murre (Uria aalge) chicks over a 10-year period. The bulk of the food was sandlance and the mean calculated mass of a feed was 7.7 g. The average feeding frequency was 4.1 fish per day. There was no significant change in the size of fish delivered by parents nor in the frequency of feeding as chicks became older. Chicks received, on average, about 30 g of fish per day during the time they were at the colony. This compared to intakes of up to 130 g per day by captive young originating from a nearby colony. Therefore, we caution against using maintenance requirements of captive murre chicks uncritically.
10.2307/1521582|The Greater Adjutant Leptoptilos dubius is one of the rarest storks on the Indian subcontinent. In Nepal and Bangladesh it has become extremely rare while in India it is still found in moderate numbers in the north-eastern state of Assam: 115 individuals were seen there during a survey in 1989. Only one breeding spot with 5-6 nests is presently known.
10.2307/1521658|Nest-site selection by tropical Roseate Terns (Sterna dougallii) was examined on Aride Island, Seychelles. Continuous variables reflecting concealment of the nest site, shelter, vegetation cover and intraspecific nest density were measured for nest-sites and random points. Seasonal variation in the initiation of nests with overhangs and their influence on hatching success and adult intraspecific aggression towards chicks were also examined. Roseate Terns selected nest-sites closer to taller vertical objects, and with a higher percentage of rocks, logs or branches overhanging the nest than occurred at random points. Nest-sites in small colonies differed more from the available habitat than did those in the main colony. Nesting density was positively correlated with the amount of rock cover. On Aride and other colonies in the tropics Roseate Terns breed at higher densities than their temperate counterparts and spacing between neighbors may be a main factor in the selection of nest-sites, especially for birds nesting at the peak of the breeding season. Nest-site characteristics, notably overhangs, had no influence on hatching success. However, the proportion of chicks that died from adult pecking was significantly lower in nests with overhangs. Concealment is a main factor of Roseate Tern nest-site selection throughout its breeding range, in both tropical and temperate areas, but the factors selecting for concealment seem to vary amongst colonies. On Aride concealment appeared to be advantageous in defending territories and protecting young chicks from attacks of adults. Artificial overhangs could be provided to enhance chick survival.
10.2307/1521863|This paper reports on short-term effects of culling at a Yellow-legged Gull (Larus cachinnans) colony on kleptoparasitic attacks by these gulls upon a heterospecific heronry. All the attacks recorded were performed by flying gulls on flying herons. Despite the large size of the gullery, the rate of attack on herons was very low. This may be due to the low energetic profitability of this feeding strategy at the study site, since the success rate of attacks was nil. Although culling reduced the number of gulls flying over the heronry, the rate of attack on herons did not vary between pre- and post-culling periods. Subadult gulls do not breed at the colony, so they were not culled, and their numbers did not vary after culling. Because subadults performed most of the attacks, lack of culling on this age-class probably explains the similar attack rate after culling.
10.2307/1521265|The Abdim's Stork (Ciconia abdimii) is one of six species of storks represented at the Audubon Park and Zoological Gardens in New Orleans, Louisiana. Two chicks were hatched by artificial incubation and hand-reared by the bird department staff in 1983. Captive propagation techniques and the development of the chicks are described.
10.2307/1521168|A survey of museum specimens revealed large interspecific variability in the sex ratio in 14 species of North American gulls. In the three black-headed species, (Larus atricilla, L. pipixcan, and L. philadelphia), females outnumbered males among prefledglings, but males outnumbered females among adults. In the white-headed gulls, the male/female ratio in prefledglings did not vary significantly from 1.0 in any species. However, among first-year birds, females outnumbered males in 8 white-headed species. Among adults, the male/female ratio was < 1.0 in the Mew and Ring-billed gulls, > 1.0 in the Great Black-backed Gull, and = 1.0 in the other white-headed gulls.
10.2307/1521238|During a study of the reproductive ecology of the Herring Gull (Larus argentatus) at Kent Island, New Brunswick, Canada, an extended period of fog occurred during peak hatching. I examined the effect of this fog on brood success and chick survivorship by comparing, during the fog and non-fog periods, the number of 2- and 3-chick broods losing any chick or losing the A-chick on or before the fifth day after hatching. I found a significant difference in the number of clutches losing the A-chick between the fog and non-fog periods. There also existed a non-significant tendency for clutches in which hatching began during the fog period to lose at least one chick more often than did those hatching in the non-fog period. The fog also affected parental foraging patterns. The number of regurgitates containing fish were significantly different during the fog period as compared to the non-fog period. There was also a significant difference between the two periods in the number of regurgitates containing euphasids. From these results I argue that the fog had a significant effect on chick survivorship, brood success, and parental foraging.
10.2307/1520986|I examined patterns of nest dispersion, predation, and antipredator behavior in a Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) colony. The density of nests and the pattern of predation differed significantly between grass and sand habitats within the colony. The intensity of defensive behavior increased with the density of neighbors. I noted no significant effect of the density of neighbors on the occurrence of predation once habitat patterns were taken into account statistically. Analyses of spatial and temporal patterns of nest dispersion revealed that terns in grassy habitats avoided nesting in the vicinity of other terns, while terns in open sandy habitats placed their nests randomly relative to other terns. The data presented here indicate that habitat may be a major determinant of nest spacing in this species. Differences in the density of nests between the two habitats could reflect differences in the actual abundance of nest sites, differences in the relative advantages of clumping or spacing out of nests, or differences in the overall quality of the habitats.
10.2307/1521319|More than 500 food items of nestling Black Skimmers (Rhynchops niger) were identified representing 18 species of fish and 2 invertebrates. Food items were obtained by ligaturing nestlings and by collecting potential food items found near nests. Seven fish species composed 87% of the skimmers diet by frequency of occurrence and a single species, the tidewater silverside (Menidia peninsulae), accounted for 25% of the sample. The three heaviest fish species, striped and white mullet (Mugil cephalus and M. curema) and Gulf menhaden (Brevoortia patronus) made up 70% of the skimmer's diet by weight. DDE and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were the only contaminants consistently detected in the Black Skimmer diet, caracass, and egg samples. DDE was present at 0.01 ppm wet weight in only 3 of 5 fish samples. PCBs were detected in all food samples and were about 18 times higher in skimmer carcasses than in fish. Eggs contained 14 times the level of PCBs detected in the fish diet. Polychlorinated styrenes (PCSs) were present in 2 of 5 fish samples at 0.01 and 0.26 ppm. PCSs were detected in 1 of 20 eggs at 0.6 ppm.
10.2307/1521361|We present incubation periods for Black-footed Albatross (Diomedea nigripes), Laysan Albatross (D. immutabilis), Wedge-tailed Shearwater (Puffinus pacificus), Christmas Shearwater (P. nativitatis), Red-tailed Tropicbird (Phaethon rubricauda), Red-footed Booby (Sula sula), Great Frigatebird (Fregata minor), Gray-backed Tern (Sterna lunata), Sooty Tern (S. fuscata), Brown Noddy (Anous stolidus), Black Noddy (A. minutus), and White Tern (Gygis alba) nesting at French Frigate Shoals, Hawaii, and compare them with those from other published sources.
10.2307/1521809| Wintering Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) were censused at all identified night roost sites in the Delta Region of Mississippi during the winters of 1991-92 and 1992-93 using aerial surveys and systematic ground surveys in mid-December, mid-February and the end of March. Aerial surveys of primary river drainages were particularly useful in locating previously unidentified roost sites and aerial counts were highly correlated with ground counts of the same sites taken within eight days of each other. Despite an increase in monitoring effort and shifts in populations due to human disturbance, there were no significant differences detected in cormorant populations wintering in this region over the past four years. However, mid-February counts were significantly higher than either December or March counts and numbered approximately 30,000  2,000 individuals. Although up to 34 sites have been monitored to conduct these censuses, only between six and twelve sites were active (having >100 birds) at any one time. Although these are not always the same sites, six sites had a significantly higher frequency of occupancy than others, and lack of occupancy of these primary sites appeared to be associated with the occupancy of nearby alternative sites. 
10.2307/1521312|Patterns of co-occurrence of 11 species of nesting colonial Ciconiiformes in estuarine areas of the Atlantic coast from Maine to Florida were examined using Reciprocal Averaging (RA) and Detrended Correspondence Analyses (DCA). The first RA ordination axis categorized the species into two groups: species of large birds that often nest in the tops of large trees, and species of smaller birds that usually nest lower down in trees, bushes, or on the ground. The Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) showed the largest positive ordination score on this axis, followed by the Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) and the Great Egret (Casmerodius albus). The other 8 species were clumped on the first ordination axis and showed little separation. The second RA axis showed an ordering of relative species abundances along an apparent north-south gradient. There were no consistent similarities of ordination scores of any species pairs or groups on all the major axes, suggesting that no consistent similarities in relative abundances of 2- or 3-species "assemblages" were found throughout the entire Atlantic Coastal Plain.
10.2307/1521144|During recent decades, the Herring Gull colony on Mellum (Wadden Sea, West Germany) has been constantly growing and spreading. This study investigated whether egg size variation within the colony area was related to differences in breeding habitat, to nest density, or to the shift of the colony center to the north of the island. Nest density generally increased with increasing vegetation measurements, but decreased near maximum values. With increasing vegetation parameters egg length and volume-index decreased for both all nests studied and for average values per transect plot. Egg breadth decreased on the latter basis only. The negative correlations of egg size with nest density lost significance after partialing out vegetation variables. We found higher mean egg size values in the new breeding areas, especially where nests were situated in sparse vegetation and at lower densities; there little change in numbers occurred. At the northern edge of the colony, breeding birds increased in number rapidly (17% per year), nested in greater density, and started breeding later in the season. In the traditional breeding area, with tall and dense vegetation, eggs were smaller, showed greater intraclutch variance in breadth, and were laid earlier. Nest density was similar to that at the northern edge, but breeding pairs decreased (6% per year). The smaller breadth and volume-index in this area was especially due to the earliest laying birds. The results correspond best with the hypothesis that on the average older birds with smaller eggs bred at the traditional breeding sites.
10.2307/1520980|Nova Scotia's breeding population of Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) has increased over the past decade from at least 4,150 breeding pairs in 1971 to greater than 12,100 pairs by 1982. This gain of nearly three times the 1971 estimate is much larger than has been recently reported for P. auritus in other areas of eastern North America. Great Cormorants (P. carbo) have increased approximately 1.5 times in colonies surveyed during both census periods. Active P. auritus and P. carbo colonies have increased to 56 from 30 and to 29 from 23, respectively. Colony distribution of the two species has not changed appreciably since 1971.
10.2307/1521855|We studied predation on the eggs and nestlings of Common Murres at Bluff, Alaska, in 1987, 1988, and 1991. Common Ravens and Glaucous Gulls were the primary predators of eggs. Nestling losses were low, and few could be attributed to predation. A raven usually took a murre egg after pulling the incubating adult from the egg and off the cliff; we never observed ravens taking abandoned eggs. The intensity of raven predation was highest on earliest-laid eggs. Virtually all raven attacks were on murres that had no active breeding neighbors at the time of the attack. Non-incubating adult murres typically flushed as a raven approached, leaving sites where a raven could then land and attack an incubating adult. Raven predation accounted for up to about half of egg losses on study plots. Raven predation acts evolutionarily as directional selection against early, asynchronous egg-laying. However, the intensity of this selection is reduced by high probability of relaying for eggs lost earliest in the season and the lack of a marked seasonal decline in breeding success of murres at this colony. Except for a few rare occurrences, Glaucous Gulls took only unattended or abandoned eggs, often following human disturbances or rock slides. Gulls preyed predominately on eggs and only rarely on nestlings. Most gull predation on eggs occurred early in the breeding season of murres, when human disturbance was highest and murres seemed most likely to temporarily abandon eggs. Gull predation and accidental dislodgment of eggs by flushing adults likely accounted for locally high losses of eggs on days when human hunters discharged firearms and shot adults on or near the cliffs.
10.2307/1521064| Levels of contaminants and eggshell thickness were measured in eggs of Caspian Terns from seven colonies in Lakes Michigan, Huron, and Ontario in 1980/1981. Levels of PCBs, DDE, mirex and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) ranged from 18.5-39.3 ppm (wet wt.), 3.3-8.8 ppm, 0.04-1.57 ppm and 0.03-0.06 ppm, respectively. Eggs from Lake Ontario (Pigeon Is.) had the greatest levels of PCBs, HCB and mirex. DDE levels were greatest in eggs from Lake Mchigan (Gravelly Is.). Eggshell thinning ranged from 0 on Hat. Is. and Ile aux Galets (L. Michigan) to 7.4% on South Limestone Is. (L. Huron). Reproductive success on two Lake Michigan colonies was 1.2-1.3 young/pair. Most residue levels of DDE, PCBs, and mirex in eggs of Caspian Terns from the Great Lakes in 1980 and 1981 have decreased from past levels and do not appear to have had a serious effect on reproduction, eggshell thickness and past and present population size and growth. Comparisons with organochlorine residues in Herring Gulls indicated that generally similar bioaccumulation patterns of contaminants occurred in the two species. 
10.2307/1521293| The breeding biology and growth of Caspian Tern (Sterna caspia) chicks were studied during the 1987 breeding season at Bolsa Chica Ecological Reserve (BC), Huntington Beach on the southern California coast and at Elkhorn Slough (ES), near Moss Landing, on the central California coast in 1978. Both habitats are ecologically similar and may be characterized broadly as coastal Pacific estuarine environments. Three methods of analysis were used to compare chick growth patterns at the two colonies. Growth data were fitted using a logistic model, a modified Richards flexible curve model, and a nonparametric smoothing technique to determine summary growth statistics. Chicks reached an asymptotic size (A) of 570  4.03 g on day 33 at ES and 566  3.85 g on day 32 at BC. Chicks at ES achieved a slightly greater (6%) instantaneous peak rate of growth than chicks at BC. Although small differences were evident in magnitude and instantaneous rate parameters between these sites, estimators of overall growth rate ( i. e., K<sub> L</sub>and t<sub>10-90</sub>), and shape parameters ( t<sub> i</sub>, P, and M) were similar, indicating homogeneity in the growth processes of these two populations. Caspian terns grew more slowly than other temperate tern species, possibly owing to physiological limitations imposed by their large size, but the shape of their growth curve exhibited a logistic form similar to other tern species. 
10.2307/1521264|Jabiru storks (Jabiru mycteria) are uncommon in zoo collections in the United States. The species has not been reported as having bred in captivity. A current and historical census of the captive specimens in the U.S. is provided. Captive behaviors are described including interspecific interactions, pair formation and bonding, nest building, and a previously undescribed aggressive behavior. Status of the species in captivity worldwide is reported.
10.2307/1521232|A colony of Double-crested Cormorants, (Phalacrocorax Auritus) was discovered in 1978 in the Apostle Islands in Lake Superior, Wisconsin, USA. By 1982, commercial fishermen were reporting losses of whitefish to cormorants feeding within nets set in the Apostle Islands National Lakeshore. We found that this cormorant colony had increased from 17 pairs in 1978 to 289 pairs in 1985. Food habits suggested that its food base consisted of small, shallow water forage fish such as sticklebacks, sculpin, and burbot, rather than commercial valuable whitefish or lake trout. Much of the reported damage was caused by reacting to the presence of cormorants, causing fish to run into the nets, rather than by their direct depredation. Abatement measures developed to reduce fish losses included structural modifications of the nets and scare devices.
10.2307/1521487| This study reports on an experiment which used artificial nests and eggs of Audouin's Gulls (Larus audouinii) to examine the intensity of predation by the Yellow-legged Gull (L. cachinnans) in the Columbretes Islands (Castelln, Spain). I also examined the relation between nest location and predation, and investigated the temporal patterns of predation. Predation on nests was rapid and intensive from the first day (78%), and increased to 100% within a period of one week. The position of nests in the colony, or the extent of vegetation cover near the nest did not affect its probability of being preyed upon first. 
10.2307/1521192|In 1979, eggshell thickness of Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) nesting in southeastern Idaho was significantly lower than that of pre-1947 eggs. Shell thickness was negatively correlated with DDE and DDD concentrations (log-transformed) in egg contents. The highest correlation was between shell thickness and DDE concentration. Mean clutch sizes in two of three colonies were significantly smaller than pre-1947 mean clutch sizes from Utah. Predation and DDE-induced losses were major factors contributing to egg destruction, and starvation probably accounted for most nestling mortality. Hatching success, percent of successful nests, number of chicks per successful nest, and shell thickness decreased, while number of eggs that disappeared or broke increased at high concentrations of DDE. Nesting success in 1979 appeared too low to sustain current population levels. Band-recovery data, high incidence of DDT in sample eggs, and total DDT:PCB ratios suggest that night-herons probably are being contaminated with DDT-DDE on wintering grounds in the southwestern United States and Mexico.
10.2307/1521772|In the last 20 years, the study of the phylogeny of herons, storks, ibises, and flamingos has yielded mixed results. In some cases, our understanding of relationships is much improved, and thus provides a substantial framework for evolutionary studies of ecology and behavior. This is particularly true within the Ardeidae and Ciconiidae, where molecular and morphological comparisons among species are most extensive and behavioral databases most comprehensive. For storks and herons, we have already begun with gusto to study the historical patterns of morphology, behavior, and vocalizations. Unfortunately, we do not have similar phylogenetic information on ibises and flamingos. However, sorting out the relationships of species within these groups will simply be a matter of application, and it should happen soon. More difficult and frustrating is our inability, despite substantial effort, to discern the relationships among the traditional ciconiiform families and other groups, including pelecaniform and falconiform families.
10.2307/1521481| Early research on the ecology of Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) in Penobscot Bay, Maine, USA indicated that cormorants are primarily benthic foragers (Mendall 1934, 1936). However, in the six decades since Mendall's work, the benthic community in the Gulf of Maine has changed, with a decline of groundfish species, such as flounders (Bothidae and Pleuronectidae) and Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua). Further, recovery of tags of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) smolts from cormorant breeding colonies has prompted concerns about predation by cormorants on smolts after the fish enter marine waters. In June - July 1993, we examined foods of nestling Double-crested Cormorants on 10 island colonies located in Penobscot Bay, Maine, USA, a 35  60 km estuarine/marine ecosystem. We ranked prey taxa according to frequency of occurrence, average percent volume, and numerical abundance. Five benthic taxa, sculpins (Cottidae), sand shrimp (Crangon septemspinosa), wrymouth (Cryptachanthodes maculatus), rock gunnel (Pholis gunnellus), and cunner (Tautogolabrus adspersus) were consistently among the highest ranking prey taxa in temporal and spatial comparisons. Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) smolts were represented only by a single individual, indicating that predation by breeding cormorants occurs prior to the nestling phase of the cormorant breeding cycle. Further, in contrast to historic data, groundfishes were negligible components of the nestling diet. 
10.2307/1521728|Tissues from 99 Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) collected between 1994 and 1997 from southern Florida, were analyzed for concentrations of mercury and selenium. These concentrations were correlated with each other, including concentrations of mercury and selenium in liver. Mercury and selenium in liver increased from a mean of 15 and 8 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> wet weight (ww) in the fall, winter and spring to a mean of 41 and 13 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> ww in the summer, respectively. Similarly, concentrations of mercury in brain increased from a mean of 1.3 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> ww in the fall, winter and spring to a mean of 2.2 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> ww in the summer. Concentrations of selenium in liver increased with age. Sex, physical condition, year, and geographic location of recovery had no significant effect on mercury and selenium concentrations. Between 12 and 15% of the cormorants studied had hepatic selenium and mercury concentrations of over 20 and 50 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> ww, respectively (considered lethal in some avian species). Liver selenium concentrations of over 3 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> ww and brain mercury concentrations above 2 mg kg<sup>-1</sup> ww (related to reproductive failure in adult loons and mallards) were observed in 57% and 32% of the cormorants studied, respectively. These results could mean that Double-crested Cormorants in southern Florida might be at risk of mercury and selenium poisoning.
10.2307/1521010|During the summers of 1981 and 1982, studies were conducted at Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge, Long Island, New York, to determine whether annual water-level drawdowns used to create shorebird habitat also led to the occurrence of avian botulism (Clostridium botulinum type C). Low levels of morbidity and mortality from avian botulism occurred on the two ponds throughout both summers, but there was no apparent relationship between the occurrence or rates of botulism losses and drawdowns of the ponds. Botulism also occurred throughout both summers on other areas of the refuge. Botulinal toxin was found in fly larvae associated with avian carcasses, including birds that did not die from botulism. Toxin was not found in other samples of aquatic biota in the ponds, although it was demonstrated in a single sample of decomposing sea lettuce (Ulva lactuca) in Jamaica Bay. Aspergillosis (Aspergillus fumigatus) and salmonellosis (Salmonella spp.) were also frequently-diagnosed causes of morbidity and mortality. We believe that botulinal toxin present in carcasses of birds dying from botulism, or produced postmortem in birds dying from other causes, on the two ponds and other areas in Jamaica Bay were a major source of botulinal toxin. Toxin could be ingested by birds through direct scavenging on carcasses, or by consumption of toxic fly larvae associated with carcasses. Diligent carcass pickup at the two ponds is recommended to reduce mortality from avian botulism.
10.2307/1521605|The frequencies of incoming and outgoing flights by wading birds were recorded at a breeding colony during an annular eclipse and during the same 4-hour period 2 days later. Compared with (1) periods before and after the eclipse and (2) flights made on a day with normal light levels, a significantly greater than expected proportion of birds returned to the colony during the eclipse. For 4 diurnal species, the frequency of incoming flights during the eclipse also was correlated negatively with ambient light level. Black-crowned Night-Herons, a nocturnal species, did not respond to the low light levels during the eclipse.
10.2307/1521764| I analyzed the arrivals, departures and commuting behavior of Common Murres (Uria aalge) breeding at colonies in Witless Bay, Newfoundland to test aspects of the information center hypothesis. No evidence was found for information exchange at nest sites. Departing murres seldom left in groups and successful foragers were not followed on foraging trips. Similarly, murres on the ledges were not well positioned to assess the directions of incoming birds and they appeared to pay little attention to these birds. Intracolony movements and circling near the ledges resulted in a high noise: information ratio around the ledges. Birds on the ocean 100-600 m from the nest sites, however, appeared to have a clear view of the orientation of incoming flocks, and of successful adults carrying fish. I propose that this zone acts as an information halo, where nave birds can obtain information on the location of their mobile, patchy prey. In 60% of departures, breeding adults splashed down within this 100-600 m zone, and were more likely to land there if they had not recently delivered a meal, or had spent more than an hour at the colony. Meals were subsequently delivered to chicks after 69% of such splashdown departures, but most birds did not catch these prey within the 100-600 m zone. Meals were delivered after 82% of direct departures in which murres flew from the ledges to >800 m out to sea. Outgoing murres usually flew solitarily or in small flocks within 2 m of the sea, which would further enhance their abilities to track the paths of the high-flying incoming flocks. 
10.2307/1521065|Concentrations of DDE, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and polychlorinated diphenyl ethers (PCDPEs) in carcasses of prefledging Common Terns (Sterna hirundo) at three Rhode Island colonies support the hypothesis that local contamination is responsible for among-colony differences observed in eggs in an earlier study. The highest concentrations of DDE and PCBs (mean = 0.24 and 2.8 ppm wet weight) were found in prefledging terns from Providence, a highly industrializedd area, and the lowest (DDE range = nd-0.11, PCBs mean = 0.85) in terns from Price Neck, an undeveloped area 40 km to the south. PCDPEs were detected in 3 of 14 tern carcases from Providence and were not detected in carcasses from 2 other colonies. The occurrence and concentrations of DDE and PCBs in killifish (Fundulus spp.), a major dietary item of Common Terns, qualitatively demonstrated the same trend among locations.
10.2307/1521909| We investigated changes in population size and demography of the Northern Rockhopper Penguin (Eudyptes chrysocome moseleyi) between 1971 and 1995 on Amsterdam and Saint Paul islands. During an intensive survey between 1993 and 1995, breeding success was similar to that reported from other sites, although the first egg (A-egg) loss rate was lower on Amsterdam Island than at other localities. The mean age of first return to the breeding site and of first reproduction were respectively X = 4.2  SD of 2.1 years and X = 4.7  SD of 1.7 years. The adult survival rate, calculated between 1988 and 1993, was significantly lower one year after banding [X = 72.2  SD of 1.6%] than in subsequent years [X = 84.0  SD of 1.1%] due to the effect of banding. Immature survival rate was estimated at 39% during the first year after banding. Two birds banded as chicks have been found in Australia, suggesting that immatures winter off Southern Australia. The population on Amsterdam Island decreased at a rate of 2.7% per year between 1971 and 1993. Using the demographic parameters measured, we calculated a modelled rate of increase of 0.940 between 1988 and 1993, a value close to the observed rate of 0.943. Between 1982 to 1993, mean sea surface temperature near Amsterdam and Saint Paul islands decreased significantly, and this change was significantly related to the decline of Amsterdam Island population during the same period. Mean sea surface temperature decline could affect the Rockhopper Penguin population through changes of distribution and abundance of prey. Other factors such as the large increase of the Sub-Antarctic Fur Seal population at Amsterdam Island between 1971 and 1993 could have reduced the penguin population. Between 1971 and 1993, the Saint Paul population of penguins increased by 5.5% per year, but this is not significantly related to the mean sea surface temperature decrease. This small Rockhopper Penguin population may still be recovering to its level before exploitation in the 1930s. 
10.2307/1521328|We review studies reporting experiments in which the broods of seabirds were enlarged. In more than half of the 25 studies (on 21 species) seabird parents successfully reared the extra chick(s) added to their broods. This large proportion of successes contrasts with the way that the outcome of these studies has often been reported in the literature. Usually, the failure of seabirds to rear extra chicks is emphasized, and is cited in support of Lack's hypothesis that birds have evolved clutch sizes producing the most surviving young. We discuss how Lack's hypothesis came to be widely accepted in spite of all the contradictory data.
10.2307/1521444|As ecosystems become increasingly affected by human activity, the need to monitor, evaluate, manage, and remediate ecological change will increase. Because of the complexity of ecosystems, it is likely that the use of biological indicators (bioindicators) will similarly increase. This paper reviews the potential utility of using aspects of colonial waterbird biology as indicators of environmental change in their supporting ecosystems. Characteristics of colonial waterbirds that support their use in bioindication include aspects of their basic biology, the extent of biological understanding of that biology, human interest, and historical precedent. The justification for using biological indicators to understand ecosystem level human impacts has theoretical underpinnings in systems theory, ecosystem theory, and hierarchy theory. Bioindicators may be derived from any level of biological organization. Two levels of indicators, suborganismal bioindicators (biomarkers, biochemical indicators) and population/community/ecosystem indicators, each have distinctive strengths and weaknesses. Traditionally, bioindicators derived from colonial waterbirds have included contaminant burden and population numbers. However, certain suborganismal bioindicators also seem appropriate for development within this group of birds. Difficulties in using colonial waterbirds as indicators include their large size, wide ranging habits, difficulty of approach and capture, and migratory patterns. Potentially appropriate colonial waterbird bioindicators include genotoxicity, mixed function oxidases, metallothionein induction, tissue concentration of contaminants, egg shell quality, other physiological responses, histopathology and teratology, growth, behavior, reproductive performance, mortality, presence/absence, distribution, and population indices. Several of these potential bioindicators may be used during the nesting period when the adults, eggs, and young are concentrated at specific colony sites. At this time, chicks and eggs can be effectively sampled and adults are often concentrated at foraging sites. The use of multiple indicators during nesting, especially those related to population indices, hematology, contaminant burdens, and reproductive competency, have special promise.
10.2307/1521564|Data were collected on the behavioral ecology of Cinnamon Bitterns (Ixobrychus cinnamomeus) and Yellow Bitterns (I. sinensis) in Malaysia. Data on courtship displays of both species and activity rates of I. cinnamomeus show that aerial activity tends to be crepuscular. While diets are similar, with fish, amphibians and invertebrates taken, I. cinnamomeus tends to take larger aquatic prey, and I. sinensis appears to take terrestrial invertebrates. I. cinnamomeus nests only in ricefields, whereas I. sinensis nests mainly in bushes and small trees surrounding ricefields. This conforms with published accounts of the species which suggest that I. sinensis is generally more catholic in its choice of nest site and tends to nest higher in available vegetation.
10.2307/1521008|We review the history of the nesting population of California Gulls (Larus californicus) at Mono Lake, California. We conclude that a large population was apparently reduced considerably by commercial egging in the nineteenth century. Over the past 75 years, the population appears to have rebounded to at least its initial size. Because of diversions of its tributary streams, Mono Lake has declined rapidly in level over the past 40 years, exposing new islands and connecting older ones to the mainland. We find no convincing evidence that availability of nesting habitat ever limited the size of the population. However, if the lake continues to decline at its present rate, only a few islets will remain, and the gull population will be reduced to a small fraction of its present size.
10.2307/1521563|The Delhi Zoo has been an important breeding site for Painted Storks (Mycteria leucocephala) for many years. From 1988 to 1992, I made repeated counts of nesting and roosting storks at the Zoo. Maximum yearly estimates ranged from 325 to 550 birds with a range of nest counts from 81 to a peak of 202 in 1988-89. Most nesting occurred in mesquite trees (Prosopis juliflora) on islands in the ponds at the Zoo. The breeding season begins in late August. After September, the number of birds at roosts declines. This Zoo site may be the only nesting colony site for the Painted Stork in the Delhi region and one of the few in all of NW India. Conservation needs are to reduce human disturbance and to improve water quality in the Yamuna River, the major feeding habitat for this and other waterbirds.
10.2307/1521659|Discriminant function analysis of morphometrics was used to develop a method for sexing Southern Gentoo Penguins (Pygoscelis papua ellsworthi) from Ardley Island, South Shetlands. A combination of five measurements was found to represent most of the differences between sexes: D<sub>1</sub> = 0.399 bill depth + 0.04 maximum gap + 0.0129 foot + 0.0589 head and bill + 1.096 mass - 38.64. Scores of D<sub>1</sub> greater than -0.09 indicated male sex, lower values female sex. Mass and bill depth had the greatest contribution to the discriminating power of this function. Because mass was subject to seasonal changes, a second function was calculated: D<sub> g</sub> = 0.753 bill depth + 0.066 maximum gap + 0.137 foot + 0.0791 head and bill -0.139 width of flipper -36.408. Values of D<sub>2</sub> above -0.086 indicated male sex. Misallocation rates were estimated by cross-validation to be 8.6 and 11.4% respectively. By comparing individual discriminant scores with critical values, more than 70% of all birds can be sexed with a confidence of >95%.
10.2307/1521353| Approximately 222 ha of saltmarshes have been reclaimed at the Berg River estuary (3247S, 1810E), South Africa for the construction of a series of commercial saltpans. The quality of such artificial wetlands as a foraging site for shorebirds and wading birds depends largely on the abundance of benthic macrofauna and their availability to birds which are determined by salinity and water level, respectively. This study examines responses of migrant and resident shorebirds to increased availability of prey and foraging space and how prey quality and season affect this response. The water level of a 11.3 ha saltpan was gradually reduced in November 1988, and again in January and March 1989. The number of bird species foraging increased significantly when the water level was reduced. Variations in response within and between waterbirds species can be attributed to changes in prey composition in the saltpan during successive experiments. Migrant shorebirds responded rapidly to increased prey availability whereas resident shorebirds showed a weak response. In another experiment involving lowering water levels, relatively large waders and shorebirds were attracted to the pan of lower salinity where the benthic macrofauna resembled that of intertidal mudflats in the estuary. Smaller shorebirds were attracted to the higher salinity pan where amphipods and chironomid fly larvae were the most abundant macrofauna. The management of artificial wetlands such as commercial saltpans can increase their value as a foraging site for waterbirds, particularly for migrant shorebirds during periods of high energy requirements. 
10.2307/1521394| On the Wadden Sea island of Mellum, I studied the relationship of coloniality (nearest neighbor distance during clutch initiation, nest density, centrality) with chick loss through predators and with breeding success in Common Terns from 1980 to 1982. One hundred fifty pairs were breeding adjacent to a Herring Gull colony (10,000 pairs). Nest density decreased over the years. Fledging success varied between 0-19%, because annual losses to predators, mainly Herring Gulls, were between 44-94% of the chicks. More than 50% of the chicks taken were  5 d old; up to this age they were found in 92% of cases  5 m away from the nest. For clutches initiated later in the season, nearest neighbor distance increased, nest density and centrality decreased. Except in 1982, significant positive correlations were found between the percentage of broods suffering chick losses by predators and laying date and nearest neighbor distance; negative correlations were found with nest density and centrality. In 1980, nest density was more crucial for chick survival than centrality, and the total breeding success was also positively correlated with nest density and centrality. In all years, the age of chicks at predation correlated positively with nest density. The results are discussed with respect to adaptive functions of coloniality such as predator swamping and anti-predator behavior, which was more effective in colony-areas of high density. Coloniality was advantageous only for early, dense and central breeders, but not for the whole colony. /// Auf der Wattenmeerinsel Mellum wurde whrend der Jahre 1980-1982 der Zusammenhang zwischen Kolonialitt der Fluseeschwalbe (Nchstnachbar-Abstand whrend der Eiablage, Nestdichte, Zentrallage) und Kkenverlusten durch Prdatoren sowie dem Bruterfolg untersucht. 150 Brutpaare nisteten neben einer Silbermwen-Kolonie von 10.000 Paaren. Die Nestdichte nahm mit den Jahren ab. Der Ausfliegeerfolg variierte zwischen 0 bis 19%, da die jhrlichen Verluste durch Prdatoren, hauptschlich Silbermwen, 44-94% der Kken betrafen. Mehr als 50% der erbeuteten Kken waren  5 Tage alt; bis zu diesem Alter wurden sie in 92% der Flle  5 m entfernt vom Nest angetroffen. Spter in der Brutsaison ablegende Paare hatten einen greren Nchstnachbar-Abstand, whrend Nestdichte und Zentrallage abnahmen. Mit Ausnahme des Jahres 1982 war der Prozentsatz der Bruten, die Kkenverluste durch Prdatoren aufwiesen, mit dem Legedatum sowie dem Nchstnachbar-Abstand positiv korreliert, negativ dagegen mit Nestdichte und Zentrallage. Im Jahre 1980 war die Nestdichte als Faktor fr die berlebensrate der Kken entscheidender als die Zentrallage, und auch der Bruterfolg war positiv mit Nestdichte und Zentrallage korreliert. In allen Jahren nahm das Alter der Jungvgel bei ihrer Prdation mit der Nestdichte zu. Die Befunde werden hinsichtlich der adaptiven Funktionen von Kolonialitt diskutiert wie Prdator-Sttigung und Feindabwehrverhalten, das in Koloniebezirken mit hoher Nestdichte effektiver war. Die Kolonialitt war nur fr frh, dicht und zentral brtende Paare von Vorteil, nicht aber fr die gesamte Kolonie. 
10.2307/1521776|Wading bird biologists have made significant and substantial contributions to the fields of avian evolution, systematics, physiology, ecology, population dynamics, and conservation. To date, progress in the field has been methodical, incremental, and predictable. Most previous work has focused on the natural history of wading birds, and many workers in the field talk to each other more than to colleagues in other areas of biology and conservation. Progress has been greatest in areas where individuals and, especially, groups of researchers, have studied wading birds over long periods, large areas, or both; or have conducted experiments in conjunction with field observations. The greatest advances yet to come in the field will accrue to those who (1) form partnerships and integrate their efforts into the larger fields of avian biology, mainstream ecology, and conservation science, (2) operate at scales appropriate for the questions at hand, and (3) take advantage of emerging technologies and resources.
10.2307/1521212|We examined the numerical responses of salt marsh birds in Massachusetts to modified open marsh water management (OMWM), a habitat alteration technique to control salt marsh mosquitoes without destroying habitat quality for pool-using birds. This management had little overall effect on bird populations in two 3-ha plots monitored for three yearss after manipulation. Shorebirds increased at first, probably owing to use of spoil resulting from construction activities but then decreased to pre-alteration numbers. Other pool-using birds (herons, terns and kingfishers) were not affected by management and consistently used control plots with extensive natural pool systems. Numbers of some marsh- and upland-nesting birds declined temporarily but returned to pre-alteration levels by the end of the study. Results indicate that open water marsh management, as modified in Massachusetts, has little immediate adverse or beneficial effect on salt marsh birds in marshes that have been previously ditched.
10.2307/1521741| The Peruvian Tern (Sterna lorata) is endemic to the Humboldt Current, and in Chile is considered endangered. Current information about its biology and the status of its populations is scarce. I describe a reproductive colony near Mejillones along the coast of northern Chile. From 13 days of observation during September, October, and December 1996 I estimated 40-50 pairs of terns present. Breeding activity may extend from mid August to February. Breeding chronology was asynchronous among pairs of terns. A Crested Caracara (Polyborus plancus) killed a fledgling tern. /// El gaviotn chico (Sterna lorata) es endmico de la Corriente de Humboldt y en Chile est considerado como en peligro de extincin. El conocimiento actual sobre su biologa y del estatus de sus poblaciones es escaso. Yo describo una colonia reproductiva cerca de Mejillones, en la costa del norte de Chile. Por medio de 13 das de observacin durante Septiembre, Octubre y Diciembre de 1996, se estim la presencia de unas 40 o 50 parejas. La actividad reproductiva podra extenderse desde mediados de Mayo hasta Febrero. La actividad reproductiva de las parejas de gaviotines fue asincrnica. Un carancho (Polyborus plancus) fue observado capturando un volantn de estos gaviotines. 
10.2307/1521147|Heavy metal and selenium concentrations were determined in Olivaceous Cormorants (Phalacrocorax olivaceus), Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla), and Black Skimmers (Rynchops niger) nesting in Galveston Bay, Texas, during 1980-81. Lead was detected at low levels in a small proportion of the liver samples. Mercury was present in all livers sampled, the highest levels being found in cormorants (7.8 ppm) and skimmers (16 ppm). Concentrations were considerably lower than those reported in birds from mercury-contaminated lakes in northern United States and Canada. Cadmium and selenium were detected in 93 and 95% of the kidneys. Cadmium was highest in gulls and skimmers with a maximum value of 16 ppm. Selenium levels were similar among species except for higher concentrations in gulls collected in 1981. Mean concentrations that year were 8.88 ppm, and 6 of 10 samples exceeded 11 ppm-a level associated with impaired reproduction in experimental birds. We found no differences between sexes for mercury, cadmium, or selenium. Differences among colonies in selenium concentrations occurred in gulls.
10.2307/1521498|From 1981-1990, 166 (10.1%) of 1636 Roseate Tern (Sterna dougallii) chicks banded from 1978-1985 at Falkner Island, Connecticut, and 68 (1.0%) of 6904 chicks banded during the same time period at all other colony sites in Connecticut, New York, and Massachusetts, were recaptured as breeding adults at Falkner Island. An analysis of the recapture data of the natal-site recruits resulted in an estimated average survival-and-return rate of 14.7% for the 3-yr period from fledging to first breeding. Assuming a 10% "permanent" emigration rate of surviving young to other colony sites, the overall prebreeding survival or maturation rate to age 3 of all fledglings raised at Falkner Island from 1978-1985 was estimated to be about 16%. The 1636 chicks banded at Falkner Island comprised only 19.7% of the total of 8540 chicks banded in the three-state area, but the 166 adults that returned to their natal colony site accounted for 71.4% of the 234 known-age survivors from the 1978-1985 cohorts that had nested at Falkner Island through 1990. The recapture as adults of birds first banded as chicks provides an estimate of the maximum degree to which the breeding population at this site was sustained by natal-site recruitment. The capture of a large number of unbanded birds and birds banded as adults elsewhere indicates, however, that about two-thirds of the recent additions to the Roseate Tern breeding population at Falkner Island were immigrants recruited from other colony sites.
10.2307/1521698| The Camargue delta of the Rhne River (southern France) is the only place in France where the Greater Flamingo Phoenicopterus ruber roseus breeds, and it is the most important breeding site in the western Mediterranean. The numbers of breeding pairs and chicks raised have been monitored for 50 years (1947-1996). Following intensive management of this colony, the number of birds breeding in the Camargue increased from 4,000-5,000 pairs in the 1950s to an average of 13,500 in 1986-1996. Since the size of the colony is limited by the size of its island, this led to the expansion of the number of breeding sites in the western Mediterranean as a whole. Banding studies begun in the 1940s have shown that flamingos of Camargue origin exploit wetlands throughout much of the Mediterranean region and west Africa. Some individuals are sedentary, while others are migratory or opportunistic. Studies of the flamingo indicate that 1) single colonies such as the Camargue can be managed successfully enough to serve as a source population that can fuel expansion into an entire region, 2) movements and reproductive success of birds in the Camargue colony extend to the entire western Mediterranean region, 3) feeding areas of individual colonies may be up to 180 km from colonies, and 4) long term studies (50 yr) have revealed that mortality is extremely episodic and unpredictable; only long-term studies therefore seem capable of accurate estimation of demographics for this long-lived species. 
10.2307/1521419| Population parameters for Magellanic penguins were recorded during six reproductive seasons (1976-82) at the Punta Tombo colony at Chubut, Argentina. Laying, hatching, fledging and corresponding mortality rates were calculated for areas of different nest density. Breeding seemed more successful at densities of 16-40 nests per 100 m<sup>2</sup> than in lower or higher nest-density areas. Clutch size averaged 1.87 (0.09 SD) eggs. Hatching success was 53.5% and fledging success was 44% giving an overall reproduction success of 23.5%. The principal causes of loss of eggs and chicks were parental desertions resulting in predation by gulls, or starvation of chicks. Egg mortality increased after the 33rd incubation day and chicks were at greatest risk of predation by gulls, or starvation of chicks. Egg mortality increased after the 33rd incubation day and chicks were at greatest risk of predation during the first week after hatching. The likelihood of death showed two opeaks, at the crches stage (20-23 d) and during the down moult (52-54 d). At both times, delays or absences of attendant parents after feeding trips were the principal causes of mortality. /// Los parmetros poblacionales para los pinginos de Magallanes fueron registrados durante seis estaciones reproductivas (1976-82) en la colonia de Punta Tombo, Chubut, Argentina. Las tasas de postura, nacimientos, cras independendizadas y la mortalidad correspondiente fueron calculadas para areas de diferente densidad de nidos. La reproduccin se mostr ms exitosa en densidades de 16-40 nidos por 100 m<sup>2</sup> que em areas de ms baja o ms alta densidad de nidos. El tamao de la nidada promedi 1.87 huevos. Las eclosiones exitosas promediaron 53.5% y las cras independizadas con xito 44%, resultando un xito reproductivo total de 23.5%. La causa principal de prdidas de huevos y pichones fue la desercin de los padres provocando la predacin por gaviotas y la inanicin de los pichones. La mortalidad de los huevos se increment luego del 33avo da de incubacin y los pichones estuvieron bajo mayor riesgo de predacin durante la primer semana despus del nacimiento. La probabilidad de muerte mostr dos apogeos, durante la formacin de las guarderas (20-23 d) y durante la muda del plumn (52-54 d). En ambas ocasiones, las demoras y fracasos de los padres despus de sus viajes de alimentacin, fuern las principales causas de mortalidad. 
10.2307/1521733|We used the cholinergic-agonist carbamyl choline chloride (Carbachol) to induce conditioned aversion to rare eggs in predators. We used chicken (Gallus gallus) eggs for the experiment, dyeing treated eggs greenish-brown and dyeing untreated eggs light blue to simulate the eggs of the Night Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) and the Little Egret (Egretta garzetta), the main species breeding in the study heronry. After ten days from the beginning of the experiment, treated eggs were significantly less preyed upon than untreated eggs; and by the 12th day no treated eggs were preyed upon, while control eggs still were. This technique may be used to protect the eggs of uncommon birds, aiding their survival and increasing small local populations. We suggest some guide-lines to successfully induce adverse conditioning in similar environmental situations.
10.2307/1521314|Remote sensing techniques such as radar altimetry, synthetic aperture radar, coastal zone color scanning, and infrared radiometry provide effective, instantaneous, and relatively inexpensive means for characterizing critical habitats of marine birds. In order to make optimal use of satellite-derived data, the rationale for marine habitat classification is presented, and advantages and limitations of different remote sensing techniques are discussed. An application of remote characterization is used to test for short-term habitat use and selection by the Black-capped Petrel (Pterodroma hasitata). By combining synoptic satellite mapping (e.g., infrared radiometry) with ship-board censusing, it was possible to demonstrate that petrels did not use all marine habitats equally, nor did petrels use habitats in proportion to their availability (areal extent).
10.2307/1521650|We tested the hypothesis that ecological differences in Red-legged (Rissa brevirostris) and Black-legged (R. tridactyla) kittiwakes nesting on St. George Island, Alaska have resulted in different reproductive traits that reflect dissimilarity in selection pressures. Nestling diets, meal delivery rates, meal sizes, growth, and productivity were compared. Red-legged Kittiwakes provisioned their young primarily with lanternfish (Myctophidae), while Black-legged Kittiwake nestlings were fed a more diverse array of prey, dominated by juvenile walleye pollock (Theragra chalcogramma). Red-legged Kittiwake nestlings received meals at approximately one-half the rate of Black-legged Kittiwakes, but the average size of nestling meals for the two species was similar. Logistic models were used to describe nestling growth. Nestlings of Red-legged Kittiwakes attained a maximum mass (asymptote) that was lower than that of nestling Black-legged Kittiwakes. Interspecific differences in growth pattern were apparently due to allometry; small differences in adult body size and associated differences in size of young at fledging. The two species of kittiwake had growth curves of similar form (logistic), similar shape (growth rate constant, inflection point), but different scale (asymptote). Thus, ecological differences do not need to be invoked to explain differences in postnatal growth rate between the two species. In 1993, productivity of Red-legged Kittiwakes was greater than that of Black-legged Kittiwakes, reflecting interspecific differences in diet and foraging ecology as they influence food availability.
10.2307/1521917|We describe two techniques for capturing American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos), Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias), and other large wading birds in aquatic habitats. One technique involved using #3 padded jaw leghold traps modified by replacing both factory coil springs with weaker #1.5 coil springs, to reduce the closing force of the jaws, and replacing the factory chain with a length of aircraft cable and an elastic shockcord, to minimize injury caused by lunging. The second technique involved using a modified portable rocket net that can be set in shallow water. We captured 142 American White Pelicans and 23 Great Blue Herons using these two techniques. We describe situations best suited for the optimum use of each technique. Both methods are humane and cost, labor, and time efficient.
10.2307/1521229|Aspects of nesting and foraging ecology of Peruvian (Sula variegata) and Blue-footed (Sula nebouxi) boobies were investigated at Isla Lobos de Tierra, at the edges of the breeding ranges of both species. The two species returned from foraging from different directions but did not differ in duration of foraging trip or duration of dive. The Peruvian Booby nested only on flat, windswept areas whereas the Blue-footed Booby nested in a wider variety of habitants. Peruvian Booby nest sites were significantly cooler than those of the Blue-footed Booby. It would appear that these two species are not simple ecological replacements and may be limited by different factors.
10.2307/1521421|Dovekies play an important role in the enrichment of the terrestrial part of the Arctic ecosystem on Spitsbergen. During one breeding season, Dovekies supplied about 60 tons of excreta (dry mass) per km<sup>2</sup> of colony area. These deposits favor the growth of vegetation in the colony area, and contribute to its gradual overgrowing, thus worsening breeding conditions for Dovekies. The zone over which Dovekies circle around the colony was also intensively manured (about 25 tons of dry excreta per km<sup>2</sup>). That part of the tundra on the course of Dovekie foraging trips was fertilized less plentifully (0.6 tons/ km<sup>2</sup>). The amount of excreta left on the tundra in unit time and area increased as the breeding season progressed. Factors influencing the level of tundra fertilization by bird excreta and the degree of utilization of ornithogenous nutrients by plants are discussed.
10.2307/1521148|The nesting biology and population of Mew Gulls (Larus canus) were investigated on Kennedy Lake, Vancouver Island, British Columbia in 1984 and 1985. The nesting population at Kennedy Lake changed little over the last 16 years. Most gulls nested as solitary pairs on small islands and on tops of poles, pilings, and tree stumps emerging from the water. Distraction displays were commonly observed. Egg-laying commenced in the beginning of May and the nestlings fledged by the middle of July. The average incubation period was 25 days and the fledging period was one month. Reproductive success averaged 0.24 and 0.52 fledglings per nesting pair in 1984 and 1985, respectively. Most egg and chick mortality resulted from predation. Reproductive success was higher for pairs with greater communal defense of nests. Pellets regurgitated by adult gulls consisted mostly of crayfish (Pacifastacus leniusculus, a lake and river inhabitant); and regurgitations of nestlings of marine fishes. The Mew Gull in British Columbia is primarily a solitary nester confined to fresh water habitat, whereas in Europe the species nest is mostly colonially in both fresh water and marine environments. In Alaska, the Mew Gull is intermediate in extent of coloniality between the species in British Columbia and Europe. Distraction is a common and typical display of Mew Gulls in British Columbia, but not in Europe. Distraction displays apparently relate to a predominantly solitary and dispersed nesting habit in gulls.
10.2307/1521615|In 1995 and 1996, nest success and nest site selection were investigated as part of a study of the breeding biology of the Black Tern (Chlidonias niger), conducted at Perch River Wildlife Management Area (WMA) in Jefferson County, New York, USA. The breeding population at Perch River WMA increased from 45 pairs in 1995 to 77 pairs in 1996. This likely represents a colony shift. Clutch size was within range for North America and remained stable between years. Mayfield estimates of nest success in 1995 and 1996 were 35.7% and 44.5%, respectively. Predation was the major cause of nest failures during both years. Nest-site habitat data were collected at 20 nests in 1995 and 17 nests in 1996. The dominant emergent vegetation at nests was burreed (Sparganium sp.) and pickerelweed (Pontederia cordata) in 1995 and cattail (Typha spp.) in 1996. Most nests occurred in emergent vegetation 26-50 cm tall and in an approximate 50:50 ratio of vegetation cover to open water. The mean water level in 1995 was significantly higher than in 1996, but was not significantly different at successful nests than at failed nests. A habitat model developed in western New York was used to evaluate nest site selection. This model did not predict nests consistently between the 2 years, perhaps due to differences in habitat features and/or management practices between two areas.
10.2307/1521385| We describe the first nesting colony of the Red-billed Tropicbird (Phaethon aethereus) known in Chile, the southernmost colony for this species described to date. During two breeding seasons the nesting phenology was observed. The birds arrived in October, remaining until the end of March or early April when the fledglings left their nests. The birds nested successfully during both seasons. It is unknown when the colony was first established, but we suggest that the colonization was a result of the displacement of these birds from islands in Peru or Ecuador due to the El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) event of 1982-1983. /// Nosotros describimos la primera colonia reproductiva del Ave del Trpico del Pico Rojo, Phaethon aethereus, que se conoce en Chile y la ms austral hasta ahora descrita. Durante dos estaciones reproductivas se sigui la fenologa de la nidificacin. Las aves arriban en Octubre, permaneciendo aqu hasta fines de Marzo inicios de Abril, cuando los volantones dejan los nidos. La nidificacin fue exitosa en ambas estaciones. Se desconoce cuando la colonia se estableci, pero se seguire que la colonizacin fue el resultado del desplazamiento de estas aves desde las islas de Per o Ecuador, debido al fenmeno de El Nio-Oscilacin del Sur de 1982-83. 
10.2307/1521958|The impact of populations of the Black-crowned Night-Heron, (Nycticorax nycticorax) and Little Egret (Egretta garzetta), on freshwater commercial fish farms (carp, Cyprinus carpio and tilapia, Sarotherodon spp.) was assessed in the Huleh Valley, Israel. Energy requirement calculations were based on heron population counts, feeding, breeding and survival parameters, daily energy requirement and fish farming management data. The heron populations in the study require 17.2 10<sup>6</sup> fry, while ponds were populated during the year with 9.8 10<sup>6</sup> fish fry. Moreover, fish of the size found in herons' stomachs throughout the year are available among commercial fish only for a period of 6-8 weeks, twice yearly. It is assumed that the main source of tilapia fry in both herons' diet is from uncontrolled proliferation in the ponds. The presence of the herons contributes to the improvement of commercial fish growing conditions by: (a) reducing density of uncontrolled fish fry; (b) eliminating unhealthy fish; (c) eliminating stocked fish fry predators; and (d) indicating undesired conditions in ponds.
10.2307/1521575|Activities of Black-tailed Gulls (Larus crassirostris) on their nesting area on Chenlushan Island in the Yellow Sea, China consisted of foraging, flight, rest, and (during appropriate periods) incubating and feeding nestlings. The extent of particular behavioral activities varied among the stages of the breeding period. These differences were important in reducing energy expenditures so the adults could increase productivity.
10.2307/1521683|We monitored the activity of radiotagged adult White Ibises (Eudocimus albus) breeding at a coastal colony site on Pumpkinseed Island, Georgetown County, SC, during 3 breeding seasons. A total of 11 nesting adults (4 each in 1987 and 1988, and 3 in 1989) wearing backpack radiotelemetry units were monitored from the ground and from fixed-wing aircraft. Ibises caring for prefledged young concentrated their foraging efforts in swamps, abandoned rice fields, impoundments, and ponds (15 such sites were used totaling 76% of all observations of radiotagged ibises), ranging from 4 to 32 km from the colony site. Saltmarshes 2 to 5 km from the colony site were visited less often by parental ibises (4 such sites were used by 4 ibises, totaling 25% of all observations). Adult ibises fed primarily crayfishes and fishes to their prefledged young. After their young fledged, or their nests failed, ibises ceased visits to abandoned rice fields, decreased visits to freshwater swamps, and doubled their relative use of saltmarsh feeding habitat. The estimated cost of traveling to freshwater feeding sites could be 1.5 to 13.5 times greater than that of traveling to the saltmarsh feeding sites. The use of non-saltmarsh habitats during chick rearing suggests that the prey available at saltmarsh sites, primarily fiddler crabs (Uca spp.), are a less preferred prey for prefledgling ibises.
10.2307/1521384|We used nightlighting to survey, capture, and band colonial nesting American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorynchos), Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus), and California Gulls (Larus californicus) on eight nights from 1988-92 at Anaho Island National Wildlife Refuge, Nevada. Disturbances to birds while nightlighting were minimal, and there was no predation by gulls on eggs or chicks of other nesting colonial birds. Territorial behavior and nest defensiveness by gulls were less evident while nightlighting. Nightlighting was more effective for capturing young birds than for adults of most species. With adequate preparation and proper timing, nightlighting effectively reduced the amount of disruption to birds in nesting colonies caused by investigators. Survival of young birds seemed unaffected by our activities.
10.2307/1521649|We repeated a previous study in the Arthur Kill estuary, located between New York and New Jersey, to determine whether wading birds from nearby breeding colonies had returned to former estuarine feeding sites that had been largely abandoned in 1990 after a series of oil spills. We also sought to determine whether the number of wading birds using freshwater locations had returned to pre-spill levels seven years after these oil spills. In May 1997, we made a total of 116 hours of observations at the same estuarine and freshwater sites in New Jersey and on Staten Island, New York, that have been the focus of our long-tern research. Our results suggest that some species of wading birds have returned to the foraging sites that they used before the oil spills in 1990. However, the use of foraging habitats by others has shifted and may be a response to colonysite dynamics or to lingering effects of the oil spills. Foraging strike success differed significantly between Great Egrets and Snowy Egrets and between freshwater and estuarine habitats, and in some cases had declined to below the levels measured in 1990.
10.2307/1521499| A Common Tern (Sterna hirundo) colony at the Eastern Headland, Toronto Outer Harbour, has been declining since 1982 due to habitat loss caused by vegetative succession and erosion, competition with Ring-billed Gulls (Larus delawarensis), predation, and human disturbances. Four wooden rafts (5 m  5 m), covered with sand and gravel, were installed in the spring of 1990 to provide artificial nesting sites. They were provided with tern decoys, driftwood, chick shelters and ramps. Common Terns colonized the rafts and defended them against Canada Geese (Branta canadensis) and Ring-billed Gulls. Incubation began in mid-May and between 23 May to 1 June there were 115 nests and 356 eggs on the four rafts. After a storm on 3 June, we found 23 nests and 51 eggs destroyed. Between 7 June and 5 July, we recorded 128 nests and 361 eggs. A total of 170 fledglings ( 20 days of age) had been counted by 27 July. The mean fledgling success of pairs using the four rafts was 1.3  0.2 (x  S.E.) fledglings per nest. Improvements to raft design are suggested. 
10.2307/1521014|During fieldwork in an area of wet-rice production in Selangor State, West Malaysia, calls and displays of the Cinnamon Bittern (Ixobrychus cinnamomeus) were observed. These are described and an attempt is made to relate them to the ecology of the species. Three call types were noted, Type I, which may serve to advertise the presence and availability of the male, was produced repeatedly by males perched in an exposed position. Type II was recorded in conjunction with the snap display during all intraspecific interactions and as an alarm. Type III, given by birds flighing to and from the feeding grounds, is regarded as a contact call. Two types of advertisement display are described. The first is given by males perched in an exposed position calling (Type II). This display involves exaggeration of the contrasting colors of the bill and coloration on the neck and head. It is likely that powder applied to the crown from the powder down tracts at the base of the neck also serves to enhance the bright coloration. The second involves 1-5 males circling while performing a slow wing-flapping display. Aggressive interactions were noted on the feeding grounds involving frequent chases and supplanting of birds arriving on site by birds already present. On each occasion the Snap Display and calling (Type II) was noted.
10.2307/1521858| The Ebro River in northern Spain was sampled weekly for Grey Herons, Ardea cinerea, between September and April of 1992-93 and 1993-94. Post-breeding migration occurred mainly in September and October, pre-breeding migration in February and March. The wintering population during the remaining months was small. Young birds were abundant in autumn, but were present in smaller numbers during the remainder of the year. Temperature and water level may be important factors driving young to search for more favorable places. The percentage of birds found in groups significantly increased from autumn to spring. The average group size was greater in spring than in autumn or winter. These groups were composed mostly of young birds in autumn, and adults in winter and spring. /// En un ro del norte de Espaa se ha muestreado semanalmente la poblacin de Garza Real, Ardea cinerea, entre los meses de septiembre y abril de 1992-93 y 1993-94. La migracin post-reproductora tuvo lugar sobre todo en septiembre y octubre, la pre-reproductora en febrero-marzo, y en el resto de los meses la poblacin invernante fue poco importante. Los jvenes fueron mayora en otoo, y minora en el resto del invierno, debido probablemente a que las condiciones meteorolgicas (sobre todo temperatura) y el nivel del agua en el ro les obligan a abandonar esta zona, buscando lugares ms favorables. El porcentaje de aves agrupadas aument significativamente de otoo a primavera. El tamao medio de bando fue mayor en primavera que en otoo e invierno. Los bandos estuvieron formados principalmente por jvenes en otoo y por adultos en invierno y primavera. 
10.2307/1521580|Caspian Terns (Sterna caspia) at two locations in Hamilton Harbour, Ontario frequently foraged in close proximity to each other with no direct evidence of territorial behaviour. On 6 July 1988, aggressive interactions between two birds were seen repeatedly, after which they foraged in clearly demarcated routes, with a third bird feeding in an adjacent, but clearly distinct area later in the day. Lack of similar interactions among foraging Caspian Terns in Hamilton Harbour suggests that feeding territories were only temporary under the circumstances of the observation period.
10.2307/1521533|Historically, Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) populations wintering in the Delta region of Mississippi were low and probably restricted to an area along the Mississippi River. Coinciding with the tremendous growth of the Channel Catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) industry in this area, wintering populations have increased rapidly and may have expanded their wintering range to include areas of highest catfish density. More than half (57%) of the catfish growers in the region perceive cormorants to be a problem at their farms and many are dissatisfied with "fright" strategies they have used to reduce fish losses. Recent objective data appear to substantiate these complaints and to project cormorant losses to the catfish industry at $2 million annually. These same data also document temporal and spatial patterns of predation and suggest possible farm management practices that might help mitigate losses. Because the current distribution of cormorant winter roost-sites appears to be associated with significant catfish predation, dispersal of cormorants from these sites is also suggested as a possible means of alleviating losses.
10.2307/1521959|Between 1972-1982, 5,000 chicks of Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus) have been ringed in the colonies of the Dnestr Delta, Ukraine. Up to 31 December 1992, 56 recoveries have been obtained. There is a strong exchange of birds among the colonies scattered throughout the northern Black Sea. Glossy Ibises from the Dnestr Delta overwinter in western Africa, particularly in the inner delta of Niger River, in Mali. The birds perform long distance flights, crossing the Sahara. Two cases of stopover in Italy are known.
10.2307/1521502|The breeding success of four egret species (Egretta alba modesta, E. intermedia plumifera, E. garzetta immaculata and Ardeola ibis coromandus) was monitored over six seasons at two colonies in the Hunter Valley, New South Wales, Australia. For all species the mean number of young fledged per successful nest fluctuated among breeding seasons, with the greatest success in wet years. In decreasing order, the greatest fluctuations occurred in E. garzetta, E. alba and E. intermedia. The breeding success of A. ibis did not vary consistently with wet and dry breeding seasons. The three Egretta species are, to varying degrees, aquatic feeders, whereas A. ibis feeds mostly in dryland habitats and is less dependent on wetlands than the other three species. We postulate that food availability is the ultimate factor controlling breeding success.
10.2307/1521943|Recent trends of six Mediterranean populations of breeding marine birds are considered. The European Shag (Phalacrocorax aristotelis) has recently decreased in certain areas. No regional decreases are apparent for either Cory's (Calonectris diomedea) or Mediterranean Shearwaters (Puffinus yelkouan). The European Storm Petrel (Hydrobates pelagicus), however, has decreased in number in several places. Considered a threatened species until recently, Audouin's Gull (Larus audouinii) numbers have increased notably in two colonies (Ebro Delta and Chafarinas Islands). Finally, the Yellow-legged Gull (Larus cachinnans) has increased dramatically since the beginning of the 20th century. The influence of several factors, such as fishing activities, introduction of mammals and increase of the Yellow-legged Gull, are considered.
10.2307/1521814|A nest box designed for Ancient Murrelets (Synthliboramphus antiquus), is described. Twenty-six were placed on a colony at Reef Island, British Columbia in 1986. Prospecting and breeding occurred only at a small number of boxes before 1990, but by 1995 almost all had been used at least once and in that year two-thirds were occupied: the normal proportion for natural burrows on the same colony. Boxes were mainly placed away from trees and fallen logs, under which most natural burrows are dug. This demonstrates that the presence of trees and logs is less important in nest site selection than the interior of the burrow. Boxes allow breeding biology to be studied without disturbing the initial structure of the burrow and enable easy access to the nest chamber. In areas where burrows are sometimes excavated by mammalian predators, they may confer protection to incubating birds.
10.2307/1521816|Nineteen nesting colonies of Great Blue Herons (Ardea herodias) were surveyed in northeast Ohio and western Pennsylvania. Fledging success was correlated with the type of barrier forming a buffer zone around each site, and the types of human disturbances experienced. Fledging success was not related to colony size or to width of the buffer zone.
10.2307/1521358|We determined meal size frequency and timing of chick feeding by Cory's Shearwaters at a colony in the Azores by weighing chicks every 4 h. Chicks were fed mainly on fish, but occasionally on cephalopods. Meal sizes delivered to the chicks averaged 60 g (S.D. = 32.2 g). Overnight positive mass increments ranged up to 180 g. Inter-feed mass loss due to respiration and excretion was positively correlated with the chicks' initial masses. The minimum amount of food required by the chicks to maintain constant mass (44.2 g day<sup>-1</sup>) was well surpassed by actual meal sizes received. The mean growth rate of the chicks (24.8 g day<sup>-1</sup>) also suggest the presence of a plentiful and nutritious food supply available to the colony. Most feeds were between 2000 h and 0400 h (GMT). The timing of adult returns was, however, dependent on ambient light conditions. Birds fed their chicks less on moonlit nights and tended to return to nests later. This response to variations in nocturnal illumination is in remarkable contrast to the diurnal return of birds of the same species at Selvagem Grande, 1400 km distant. The effects of ambient light on food provisioning behavior may be related to nocturnal food availability rather than predator avoidance by adult birds. Comparisons are made with chick-feeding patterns of other pelagic Procellariiformes.
10.2307/1521398| Major foraging areas and macroforaging habitats of American White Pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) nesting at Pathfinder Reservoir (42 23 N, 106 56 W), Wyoming, were assessed in 1986 and 1988. Our goals were to locate important foraging areas of American White Pelicans from the Pathfinder Reservoir nesting colony, document major foraging habitats and to determine whether annual and within-breeding season variation existed with use of feeding habitats. The most frequently used foraging areas of American White Pelicans included portions of the North Platte and Sweetwater rivers and Pathfinder Reservoir. American White Pelicans foraged in a variety of wetland habitats within 75 km of the nesting colony including rivers, reservoirs, and other habitat (marsh, pond, lake, small reservoir, stream) types. Significant year-to-year and within-breeding season variation existed with use of different foraging habitats. Most year-to-year and within-breeding season differences in habitat use occurred in the small river and other habitat (marsh, pond, lake, small reservoir, stream) types. Prey available to American White Pelicans probably determined which habitats were used and accounted for spatial and temporal variation in use of foraging areas. Because American White Pelicans exhibited plasticity in resource use, our results caution against conclusions made from data on habitat use gathered during only one month or one year. 
10.2307/1521397| I studied egg size variation in a small, stable Herring Gull (Larus argentatus) colony (about 35 pairs, annually) off the coast of the Gulf of Finland in 1987, 1989 and 1991-93. The measured sample of eggs covered peak breeders in a synchronous group all with 3-egg clutches. Total clutch volume did not vary among years (range 254-265 cc). Volumes of individual eggs in the sequence did not vary among years, but mean egg volume within clutches varied significantly. The relative size of the last-laid egg did not vary significantly among years (range 2.6% to 6.4% smaller than the first-laid egg). Among years, the last egg was largest in 10-30% of measured clutches. Among years, the pairs measured produced, on average, 2.3 to 2.6 fledglings. In a pooled data set, pairs producing three or two fledglings had a smaller within-clutch size asymmetry in egg volume than those producing only 1 fledgling. Average egg-size did not affect production of young in these groups. I suggest that egg-size asymmetry reflects feeding environment, parental quality, and predicts reproductive success. /// Jag studerade ggstorleksvariation inom grtrutskullar (Larus argentatus) i en liten koloni (ca. 35 par rligen) i vstra Finska Viken ren 1987, 1989 och 1991-93. Jag mtte gg i kullar lagda under lggingtoppen inom en synkron grupp av hckare med fulla 3-ggs kullar. Den totala kullvolymen varierade inte signifikant mellan ren (254 till 265 cm<sup>2</sup>). Volymen hos gg inom lggsekvensen varierade inte mellan ren, men volymen mellan ggen i kullen varierade signifikant. Det sist lagda ggets volym varierade inte signifikant mellan ren (det var frn 2.6% till 6.4% mindre n det frst lagda gget). Det sist lagda gget var det strsta i kullen i mellan 10 och 30% av kullarna beroende p ret. Paren producerade mellan 2.3 och 2.6 ungar per r. ggen inom kullen hos de par vilka producerade tre och tv flygga ungar tenderade att vara lika stora, medan de par som producerade bara en unge uppvisade strre asymmetri i ggstorlek. Medelvolymen p ggen hade ingen inverkan p produktionen av ungar inom dessa grupper. Jag freslr att storleksasymmetrin inom ggkullen terspeglar nringsomgivningen, frldrarnas kvalitet, och frutspr reproduktionsframgngen. 
10.2307/1521455|Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) prey was identified from regurgitation samples collected from nestlings in the Birdsville colony in east-central Georgia. Potential prey was sampled at stork foraging sites to determine species diversity and relative abundance. Fish, especially sunfish (Family Centrarchidae), were the most common items regurgitated. Sunfish, Bowfin (Amia calva), Redfin Pickerel (Esox americanus) and Lake Chubsuckers (Erimyzon sucetta) accounted for 86% of the individual prey items and 90% of the biomass in regurgitations. Sunfish occurrence in regurgitations was disproportionately higher than their occurrence at stork foraging sites. Nestling storks in east-central Georgia were fed larger fish than nestling storks in south Florida.
10.2307/1521601| We studied nest site selection and breeding success of Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycticorax nycticorax) and Little Egrets (Egretta garzetta) in the Axios Delta (Greece) from 1988 to 1990. Both species nested above the middle of tamarisks and alders. Nest density varied each year from 333.3 nests/ha to 646.2 nests/ha for Black-crowned Night-Herons and 291.7 nests/ha to 421.5 nests/ha for Little Egrets. Black-crowned Night-Herons started to breed earlier than Little Egrets, also placing their nests higher (mean nest height: 4.21  SD of 0.80 m and 3.54  SD of 0.71 m for Black-crowned Night-Herons and Little Egrets, respectively). The nearest neighbors were con-specifics for Black-crowned Night-Herons and heterospecifics (Black-crowned Night-Herons) for Little Egrets. The mean distance of the nearest neighbor was similar in both species (1.02  SD of 0.46 m and 1.11  SD of 0.37 m for Black-crowned Night-Herons and Little Egrets, respectively). In contrast to late-nesting Little Egrets that located their nests lower, Black-crowned Night-Herons maintained a constant nest distance from the ground. The mean clutch size (3.40  SD of 0.60 and 4.32  SD of 0.81 for Black-crowned Night-Herons and Little Egrets, respectively) and the mean chick survival per nest (2.48  SD of 0.95 and 2.53  SD of 1.28 for Black-crowned Night-Herons and Little Egrets, respectively) of both species varied among the study years. No variation was observed in the means of clutch size and chick survival per nest of Black-crowned Night-Herons among the 3 sub-periods of the breeding season. Little Egret clutch size and mean number of eggs hatched was smaller in late nesters, but no difference was observed in chick survival per nest between early and late nesters. Nest placement did not affect chick survival in Black-crowned Night-Herons and only marginally in Little Egrets. 4.32  SD of 0.81 for Black-crowned Night-Herons and Little Egrets, respectively) and the mean chick survival per nest (2.48  SD of 0.95 and 2.53  SD of 1.28 for Black-crowned Night-Herons and Little Egrets, respectively) of both species varied among the study years. No variation was observed in the means of clutch size and chick survival per nest of Black-crowned Night-Herons among the 3 sub-periods of the breeding season. Little Egrets clutch size and mean number of eggs hatched was smaller in late nesters, but no difference was observed in chick survival per nest between early and late nesters. Nest placement did not affect chick survival in Black-crowned Night-Herons and only marginally in Little Egrets. 
10.2307/1521241|The effects of foraging behavior and habitat on Little Blue Heron (Egretta caerulea), Snowy Egret (Egretta thula), and Tricolored Heron (Egretta Tricolor) striking efficiency were examined. Snowy Egrets had a greater striking efficiency Standing than Walking Slowly, Foot Stirring, or using Disturb-and-Chase methods. Tricolored Herons had a greater striking efficiency using Walking Slowly than with Disturb-and-Chase methods. Little Blue Herons had a greater striking efficiency in open water and on shore than in pools. Tricolored Herons had a greater striking efficiency along the shoreline, in canals, and in pools than in openwater. Striking efficiency is discussed with regard to prey selection and behavior and habitat use.
10.2307/1520966|During July and August 1980, 1981, and especially 1982 I studied the flocking and foraging behavior of adult and juvenile White Ibises in a South Carolina salt marsh. Adults were more numerous than were juveniles throughout the study site and certain portions of the marsh had extremely low ratios of juveniles to adults. Almost all ibises fed in flocks that ranged from 2 to 78 individuals. In most feeding flocks juveniles were outnumbered by adults and they usually fed on the periphery of the flock. Juveniles tended to arrive on and depart from the marsh with other juveniles and to remain near juveniles as they fed. Juveniles flew on and off the marsh in larger flocks than did adults and they flew to evening roosts later than adults did. Paired observations show that even when adults and juveniles fed side-by-side, juveniles were still significantly less successful than were adults.
10.2307/1521525| The breeding population of the Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) in the province of Qubec is confined to the St. Lawrence River, Estuary and Gulf. This population has increased over the past decade from at least 12,000 pairs in 1979 to about 27,300 pairs in 1990, and active colonies have increased from 43 to 70. Tree-nesting colonies represent 50% of nest sites used, compared to 37% on the ground and 13% on cliffs. The difference in proportion of different types of nest sites used among the different sectors of the St Lawrence system reflects differences in habitat availability. Decreasing disturbance and persecution by man, the abundance of food near the breeding colonies, and possible higher survival of cormorants on the wintering grounds are thought to be responsible for this population increase, but these factors had not been investigated in detail and remain conjectural. 
10.2307/1521524|Toxic contaminants have influenced Double-crested Cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) reproduction on the Great Lakes for at least three decades. Four recent studies of contaminants in cormorants of the Great Lakes region are reviewed for their conformation with epidemiological criteria used to infer cause and effect linkages (CELs). Growth of the population was interrupted by DDT which led to egg-shell thinning and reduced reproduction which hid other developmental problems that were most likely caused by planar PCB, dioxin and furan contaminants. Three studies investigated embryo viability and deformities in the post-DDT era. A study of the effects of planar contaminants measured by the H4IIE bioassay technique on egg viability was judged to be strong demonstration of contaminant effects on the cormorant population. Two studies of bill defects and the co-occurrence of embryonic abnormalities with specific toxic PCB and dioxin congeners as cormorant teratorgens were found to have weaknesses, but were consistent with the paradigm that planar chlorinated hydrocarbons (PHHs), especially the non-ortho-substituted PCB congeners, are now the most important toxic chemical problem for cormorants in the Great Lakes. The rapid uptake of PHHs and great interspecific variations of sensitivity to effects of these chemical between Larids and cormorants have been observed. These biochemical differences and high cormorant fecundity help account for the rapid recovery of cormorants on the Great Lakes. PHHs have relatively trivial impacts on cormorant populations, but do cause significant damage to individuals in a dose-dependant manner. Congener-specific and bioassay techniques support the development of a new toxic chemical paradigm with large implications to policy, management and water quality criteria used to make regulatory decisions. Cormorants may have actually benefited from exposure to toxic contaminants in their competition with large gulls (Larus spp.) on the Great Lakes in the post-DDT era.
10.2307/1521854| The breeding population of the Bonin Petrel (Pterodroma hypoleuca) on Midway Atoll has declined dramatically since the accidental introduction of the black rat (Rattus rattus). During 1993 and 1994, we examined the effects of rat predation on Bonin Petrel reproductive success by monitoring nesting petrels in six study sites, three of which were treated with rodenticide (treatment) and three that were not (control). Results indicate that the incubation stage of the petrels' nesting cycle is most vulnerable to rat predation. Both unattended and incubated eggs were attacked by rats. Rat predation was not observed on petrel chicks in study nests. However, incidental observations of chick remains outside of burrows suggest that rat predation on chicks may occur, but at a low frequency. Sites with low burrow density suffered more from rat predation than sites with higher burrow density. The rodenticide "Vengeance" appeared to successfully suppress the rat numbers in treated sites. The number of nests that failed due to rat predation was significantly lower in two of the three treatment sites when compared with their paired control sites. In addition, the indications of rat activity were lower at these two treatment sites than at the paired control sites. Therefore, this study provides some evidence that rodenticide application is successful in reducing the number of rats, which in turn reduces the amount of rat predation and is associated with an increase in the reproductive success of Bonin Petrels. 
10.2307/1521297| Breeding by the Greater Flamingo (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) in West Africa is essentially restricted to the Mauritanian coast and in particular to the Banc d'Arguin National Park (PNBA). Here we document the reproduction of the Greater Flamingo in the PNBA in 1991 and 1992. In 1991, 2,222 chicks were observed on the island "Petite Kiaone" and in 1992, 1,240 chicks were counted on the neighboring "Grande Kiaone." Laying took place from late April to early May in 1991 and in the second half of April in 1992. However, observation of a fivemonth old juvenile in the north of Mauritania in June 1992 indicated that breeding had taken place somewhere else this year, presumably in West Africa. This is confirmed by observations of other juveniles in Senegal in June-July. We discuss breeding in Mauritania in relation to breeding in other parts of the species' range. /// La reproduction du Flamant rose (Phoenicopterus ruber roseus) en Afrique de l'Ouest est localise essentiellement sur la cte Mauritanienne et en particulier dans le Parc National du Banc d'Arguin (PNBA). Nous apportons ici quelques informations sur la reproduction du Flamant rose dans le PNBA en 1991 et 1992. En 1991, 2222 poussins furent observs surt l'le "Petite Kiaone" et en 1992 1240 poussins out t dnombrs sur "Grande Kiaone." Les dates de ponte devaient se situer entre fin Avril et dbut Mai en 1991 et dans la seconde moiti d'Avril en 1992. Cependant, l'observation d'un juvnile de 5 mois dans le nord de la Mauritanie en Juin 1992 indiquait une probable reproduction ailleurs en Afrique de l'Ouest. L'observation d'autres juvniles au Sngal en Juin-Juillet renforce cette assertion. La reproduction en Mauritanie est discute en relation avec la reproduction dans d'autres parties de l'aire de rpartition de l'espce. 
10.2307/1521003|During 1984 and 1985, rates of parental provisioning to nestlings and number of young fledged were compared to frequencies of 13 behavioral interactions among nestlings at 51 Great Blue Heron (Ardea herodias) nests in northern Utah. Only the unranked provisioning rate by number fledged comparison was found to have a regression slope significantly different from zero. No significant correlation was found between provisioning rate and any nestling interaction. Significant correlations and regression slopes were found between some nestling interactions and number fledged. Sibling aggression did not appear to be a means to bring about brood reduction. Parental provisioning rates had little effect on sibling aggression, whereas number of young per nest appeared to have been the most important factor.
10.2307/1521235| The feeding habits of the Snail Kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) were observed intermittently from 1967-1980 in Florida, USA. Approximately 97% of all observed foraging bouts were over marshes having sparse emergent vegetation. The visually-hunting kite was unable to forage over floating mats of exotic water hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes). Male kites had shorter hunting bouts than females. For still-hunting, the birds' perches ranged from 0.15-4.6 m high and captures occurred an average of 5.8 m from perches. Females were significantly more successful (70%) for course-hunting than males (48%), but I found no difference for still-hunting. Birds tended to forage throughout the day, except for occasional inactive periods by some individuals during midday. On cooler days, foraging commenced slightly later in the morning than on warmer days. Kites probably capture freshwater apple snails (Pomacea paludosa) as deep as 16 cm. Capture rates for adults generally ranged from 1.7-3.4 snails per hour. Kites usually foraged over a common hunting area, and defense of foraging sites was rare. Handling of snails, from the kite's arrival at the feeding perch until consumption, averaged 2.7 min, with no significant difference between sexes. However, adult females were more efficient at the extraction portion of this process than were adult males. Snails were usually extracted before being brought to the nest, except in the latter part of the nestling period when some snails were extracted at or near the nest and some were brought intact. Adults feed small chicks bill to bill, and both parents generally shared equally in care of the young, except at two nests where the females did 67% or more of the feeding. Mean length of snails taken by kites was 42.8 mm (range 25.2-71.3, n=697) and mean diameter was 45.8 mm (range 27.4-82.4, n=697). The most common size classes taken were 30-60 mm in length and diameter. Nutritional and gross energy values were determined for apple snails. Female snails with albumen glands removed (versus males or mixed samples of both sexes of complete tissue or with viscera removed) had the highest caloric value (x=4.04 kcal/g, n=10). Kites cast pellets, a behavior documented here for the first time. 
10.2307/1521043|The frequencies of aggressive acts towards intruders and of copulation bouts by partners in Herring Gull (Larus argentatus) pairs were determined for the time period from nest construction through hatching of first chicks. In each of 2 years (1980/81) males were consistently more aggressive than were females. Aggression by males was greatest during the copulation and egg-laying period, whereas aggression by females was relatively constant throughout. Male aggression was always highest when a mate was present. Aggressive acts by members of either sex prevent intrusion by conspecifics into territorial space. For males, aggressive acts also assure certainty of paternity by preventing access to their females by other males.
10.2307/1521945| The Camargue in southern France is a well defined biogeographic region of wetlands. Nine species of colonial Charadriiformes breed there. We compare changes in these populations between 1956 and 1991 on both local and regional scales. The local scale is represented by three main breeding areas, two commercial salinas and a saltmarsh. The use of these two spatial scales allows determination of the factors that may explain the population trends and to estimate their relative importance. Immigration seems to explain the population increases of several species; however, habitat modification by man and competition for breeding sites are two principal factors explaining local changes. These local factors should be responsible for colony distribution changes within the region. /// Dans le sud de la France, la Camargue reprsente une rgion de zone humide bien dlimite. Neuf espces de Charadriiformes coloniaux s'y reproduisent. Nous avons compar l'volution des effectifs de ces populations entre 1956 et 1991 sur une chelle rgionale et une chelle locale. Cette dernire est reprsente par les trois principales localits de reproduction, deux salins et un marais ctier sal. L'utilisation de ces deux chelles spatiales permet d'identifier et de hirarchiser les facteurs responsables de l'volution de ces populations. Si l'immigration semble ainsi expliquer l'augmentation de certaines espces, il apparat que les modifications de l'habitat par l'Homme et la comptition pour les sites de reproduction soient les causes principales du changement local des populations. Ces facteurs locaux seraient responsables du dplacement des colonies de reproduction et du changement de la distribution des oiseaux en Camargue. 
10.2307/1521700|It has been suggested that the primary regulatory factor of Snail Kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) populations in Florida is periodic drought. Consequently, the need for drought refugia has been previously identified as essential to the viability of kites. However, rainfall patterns across Florida are quite variable and the spatial and temporal patterns of drought have been largely ignored. We suggest that the primary response of Snail Kites to local drying events is behavioral; birds simply move to a different location. Small localized drying events occur at a relatively high frequency, whereas widespread droughts that encompass the entire range of Snail Kites in Florida are relatively rare. The occurrence of simultaneous drying events also is inversely correlated with distance between wetlands, resulting in greater asynchrony of drying events at larger spatial scales. Consequently, a large spatial extent helps to ensure that some refugia are available during most droughts. This enables individuals to escape the effects of droughts by moving. Several management recommendations have focused on maintaining continuous inundation of wetland habitats; however, the lack of periodic drying can detrimentally affect the kites' nesting and foraging habitat. We suggest that ensuring adequate refugia from drought can, and should, be accomplished by maintaining suitable habitat across a large enough area (including habitats in several different watersheds) to include climatic variability, rather than by prolonging local inundation. A broad spatial extent enables areas to incur periodic drying (necessary for plant communities) on a rotational basis through climatic variability. Monitoring also must occur over time periods long enough to detect not only the short-term response of birds to a given drying event, but also the long-term response of the habitat to water management regimes.
10.2307/1521660|Double-crested Cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) breed across the northern United States and in Canada. Cormorants have been reported to nest sporadically in the southern United States. The only reported nesting by cormorants in Mississippi was reported in Tunica County near Clayton in May 1952. During the 1998 annual Mississippi colonial waterbird survey by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, four nesting pairs of Double-crested Cormorants were found. Two nesting pairs were located at Lewis Swamp in Coahoma County, Mississippi, and two nesting pairs were located at Jones Lake in Warren County, Mississippi. The two nests at Lewis Swamp were removed by an undetermined source within two weeks of their discovery. The nesting colony at Jones Lake increased from two to 31 nests over a four-month observation period. Of the 31 nests, 13 successfully fledged at least one young. Incubation of the first clutch began on 24 April 1998 and all young had fledged by 18 September 1998. If breeding cormorants continue to increase in Mississippi, the aquaculture industry may have to contend with cormorant depredation not only as a seasonal occurrence but as a year-round issue.
10.2307/1521440|The status of the Black Tern (Chlidonias niger) in the Northwest Territories, Canada, was only assessed partially in the past. We present new observations, including confirmed and probable breeding records, and review past records that help clarify this status. We confirm that this species nests on the north shore of Great Slave Lake. This represents the northernmost known limit of its Nearctic breeding range. Lack of complete information on the NWT Black Tern population over the past 10-20 years precludes us from determining whether a decline is occurring as in other regions of North America. We discuss factors that may influence the Black Tern's abundance and distribution in NWT in the future.
10.2307/1521327|Determination of the sex ratios of free-ranging avian populations is difficult because it is nearly impossible to prove that a sampling bias did not occur. Museum collections provide a source of information on sex ratios, but may introduce particular biases of their own, including errors made from misidentifying the specimen's sex or misinterpreting the notations on the specimen tag (Parkes 1989). We examine the potential impact of these biases in relation to an earlier paper on sex-ratios in gulls based on museum specimens.
10.2307/1521555| We used the doubly-labeled water technique to measure the field metabolic rate (FMR) of free-ranging adult Black Guillemots (Cepphus grylle) during the chick-rearing period. The FMR was 3.63  0.74 ml CO<sub>2</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>, equivalent to a daily energy expenditure of 860  175 kJ d<sup>-1</sup>. The FMR was 3.17 times the resting metabolic rate (RMR) measured in a previous study at the same locality. This FMR/RMR ratio is below the maximum sustained working level (4  basal metabolic rate) proposed earlier for birds in general. In contrast to most alcid species, the Black Guillemot has a brood of two and is an inshore forager during the breeding season. Because of high costs of flight, offshore feeding would implicate an FMR in excess of 4  BMR in this species. During chick rearing, adult Black Guillemots must consume ca. 232 g of fresh fish per day (61% of its body mass) in order to maintain constant body mass. 
10.2307/1521089| During helicopter surveys of the coastline (from the Venezuela/Colombia border in the west to the border of the states of Zulia and Falcon in the east) we observed almost 4200 large terns (Royal Terns Sterna maxima, Caspian Terns S. caspia and Sandwich Terns S. sandvicensis). Most of those terns occurred along the west coast of the Gulf of Venezuela, and in El Tablazo Bay, the Straits of Maracaibo and Los Olivitos. In contrast, few terns were observed along the northwest coast of the Gulf of Venezuela and in most of Lake Maracaibo. The great majority of the terns was resting on natural or man-made sites. Resumen.-Durante los vuelos de helicptero sobre la costa (desde la frontera Venezuela/Colombia en el oeste hasta el lmite de los estados de Zulia y Falcn en el este) observamos unas 4200 gaviotas grandes (Tirra canalera Sterna maxima, Gaviota pico rojo S. caspia y Gaviota patinegra S. sandvicensis). La mayora de estas gaviotas se encontraban en la costa oeste del Golfo de Venezuela y en la Baha el Tablazo, los Estrechos de Maracaibo y los Olivitos. Por el contrario, se observaron pocas gaviotas a lo largo de la costa noroeste del Golfo de Venezuela y en la mayor parte del Lago Maracaibo. La gran mayora de las gaviotas estaban posadas en lugares naturales o artificiales. 
10.2307/1521685|We studied reproductive characteristics of Black-crowned Night-Herons (Nycitcorax nycticorax) at 4 colonies in south central Washington and 1 colony in north central Oregon in 1991. Nest success, adjusted using the Mayfield method, was significantly different between colonies and ranged from 12-84% to hatching and 12-73% to 14 days post-hatching. The mean number of young surviving to 14 days of age in each colony ranged from 0.47-1.94 per nesting female (includes recycling efforts that involve laying more than 1 clutch). There were marked intercolony differences in clutch size and incidence of recycling. Predation (primarily avian) was a major factor that adversely affected nest success in 3 colonies and was relatively unimportant in 2 colonies. Residues of DDE, total polychlorinated biphenyls, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, and other compounds in eggs were generally low and apparently had little influence on reproductive success at any of the colonies. Mean eggshell thinning ranged from 7-11% in comparison to a pre-1947 norm for eggs measured in museum collections. Cytochrome P450 enzyme (EROD, PROD, and BROD) induction in livers of pipped embryos by colony ranged from low to average in comparison with other colonies throughout the U.S. Average EROD and BROD activities were highest at Sand Dune Island and were lowest at Potholes Reservoir which was designated the reference colony. In relation to our study of 3 of the 5 colonies in the early 1980s, residues of DDE and several related compounds appeared to decline, nest predation rates increased, and nest success decreased at all 3 colonies.
10.2307/1521349|Rasa (Flat) Island is the nesting site for over 90% of the world population of Heermann's Gulls. Breeding is very synchronous and during the first month after hatching, aerial predation by Yellow-footed Gulls on Heermann's Gull chicks is conspicuous. This predation was analyzed and compared at a valley (71 nests/100 m<sup>2</sup>) and a rocky hill (9.5 nests/100 m<sup>2</sup>) area. In the valley, the total number of predation events was higher, but the proportion of nests preyed upon was significantly lower. Predatory gulls spend significantly more time searching for prey and made significantly more predation attempts in the valley compared to the rocky hill. The number of successful predation events per unit time a predator was present in the observation area and the success rate of predators did not differ between areas. This behavior fits the predictions of the "ideal free distribution" model. During the first month after hatching, a positive correlation was found between prey and predator numbers. Breeding synchronously and densely could thus give the Heermann's Gull an effective defense against this predator on Rasa Island.
10.2307/1521321|Little Blue Herons (Egretta caerula) and Cattle Egrets (Bubulcus ibis) stopped nesting at their traditional Lake Conway, Conway, Arkansas, heronry in the spring of 1986. Little Blue Herons probably did not breed because of insufficient aquatic prey caused by the draining and refilling of Lake Conway during the winter of 1985-86. Cattle Egrets, however, faced no known shortage of terrestrial insects in nearby pastures. The failure of these terrestrial foragers to stay at their traditional heronry can best be explained by the hypothesis that Cattle Egrets need a nesting stimulus provided by the nesting of earlier-arriving native wading ardeids.
10.2307/1521352|Wood Stork (Mycteria americana) habitat use around Cumberland Island, Georgia was measured by classifying feeding and roosting locations with a geographic information system using data from 1:24000 national wetlands inventory maps. We found that palustrine wetlands were used extensively by foraging storks. More than 70% of foraging locations were in the estuary. Salt marsh and tidal creeks provided an abundant foraging habitat for breeding and non-breeding storks. An analysis of the landscape within 500 m of stork locations demonstrated that estuarine and freshwater habitats differed according to patch size and habitat diversity. These landscape-level differences influence the spatial patterns of habitat use by storks. Broad-scale studies may be useful for detecting patterns in habitat use but suffer from limitations due to coarse spatial resolution of habitat data.
10.2307/1521820|Egg characteristics, and the mass, crown-rump length, eye diameter and various physical characteristics of known-age Double-crested Cormorant embryos from Lake Winnipegosis, Manitoba are reported. These characteristics can be used to estimate the ages of other embryos, between seven days incubation and hatching.
10.2307/1521225| According to Trivers' (1974) theory of parent-offspring conflict, sexual reproductive leads to a fundamental asymmetry in the reproductive interests of parents and their offspring, which should generate conflict between them. Because the behavior of some pelecaniformes has been cited in support of the theory, information on the six families comprising the order was reviewed to test the theory provisionally and to identify areas where further research is needed. Information on tropicbirds and frigatebirds is insufficient to reach conclusions, but studies of pelicans, boobies, cormorants, and anhingas (suborder Pelecani) supported some predictions and failed to support others. Parent-offspring conflict over distribution of food among contemporary sibs is supported by offspring behavior and to some degree by parental behavior. Brood reduction appears to be common in all four families in species laying multiple-egg clutches, but there is no clear evidence of the predicted conflict between parents and senior offspring over elimination of the junior chick, whether chick loss is facultative or obligate; rather, parent-offspring cooperation is indicated. Parent-offspring conflict over distribution of food between successive broods is supported by observations of parental and offspring behavior in pelicans, boobies, and cormorants. Lack of behavioral conflict could reflect an evolutionary solution to underlying conflict of interests or, alternatively, congruence of those interests; and behavior consistent with predictions is susceptible to alternative explanations. Problem-oriented studies including behavioral description and analysis of fitness benefits are needed to clarify these issues. /// Segun la teora de conflicto padre-hijo de Trivers (1974), la reproduccin sexual conduce a una asimetra fundamental en los intereses reproductivos de los padres y sus crias, la cual debera de generar conflicto entre ellos. Dado que la conducta de algunos pelecaniformes ha sido citada en apoyo a la teoria, se hizo un resumen de la informacin sobre las seis familias que integran el orden para ponerla a prueba e identificar a las areas donde se requiere de mas investigacin. La informacin que se tiene sobre las aves del trpico y sobre las fragatas no es suficiente para llegar a conclusiones, pero los estudios de los pelcanos, los bobos, los cormoranes y los ahuizotls (el suborden Pelecani) dan apoyo a algunas predicciones mas no a otras. Conflicto padre-hijo sobre la distribucin del alimento entre hermanos comtemporaneos esta apoyado por la conducta de las crias y en cierto grado por la conducta de los padres. La reduccin de la nidada parece ser comn en las cuatro familias en las especies que ponen nidadas de varios huevos, pero no hay evidencias claras del predicho conflicto entre los padres y la cria mayor sobre la eliminacin de la cria menor, ni cuando la perdida de crias en facultativa ni cuando es obligada; mas bien, la cooperacin padre-hijo esta sealada. Conflicto padre-jijo sobre la distribucion del alimento entre nidadas sucesivas est apoyado por las observaciones de la conducta de los padres y las crias en los pelcanos, los bobos y los cormoranes. La falta del conflicto conductual podria reflejar una solucin evolutiva al conflicto subyacente de intereses o, alternativamente, la congruencia entre dichos intereses; y la conducta que es consistente con las predicciones es suceptible a las explicaciones alternativas. Se requieren de estudios enfocados en problemas especficos que incluyan a la descripcin conductual y el anlisis de los beneficios en trminos de la adecuacin, para aclarar estos puntos. 
10.2307/1521292|The Louisiana coastal area supports a large population of colonial seabirds. For many seabird species, a significant percentage of the United States' population breeds along the Louisiana coast. We monitored the status of seabird colonies along a portion of coastal Louisiana from 1985 to 1992. The habitats used by seabirds in our study area can be divided roughly into marsh and beach sites. Forster's Terns (Sterna forsteri) were found only in the marsh colonies, and Laughing Gulls (Larus atricilla) were found in both marsh and beach habitats. All other seabird species were found in beach colonies only. Population trends are different for each species and seem to be strongly correlated to the availability of suitable habitat. Brown Pelicans (Pelecanus occidentalis), Royal Terns (Sterna maxima) and Sandwich Terns (Sterna sandvicensis) have a low turnover of colony sites. These low turnover rates seem to be more related to the relative rareness of suitable nesting sites for these species than to the stability of these habitats. Both Forster's Terns and Least Terns (Sterna antillarum) have relatively high turnover rates, likely due to the instability of the nesting habitat used by these species. However, turnover rates of colonies in Louisiana are comparable to rates reported for colonies of the same species elsewhere.
10.2307/1521738|An eight year old Thick-billed Murre (Uria lomvia) identified in 1997 at Hakluyt Island, Thule, Greenland, where it was apparently breeding, had been banded as a chick on Coats Island in Hudson Bay, Canada. This is the first known case of colony interchange in the species, which is normally considered to exhibit a very high degree of colony philopatry. The incident is briefly discussed with reference to the Common Murre (U. aalge).
10.2307/1521057|Since 1970, the population of the Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis) in Florida has been thought to be stable. However; one local population, in extreme southern Florida, experienced a 40% decrease from 1977 through 1981. An evaluation of the precision of the long-term statewide aerial pelican survey showed that even the complete loss of this local population would not be statistically recognizable on a statewide basis. We also found that censuses conducted in other than the month of peak nesting have a 40-60% error. We hypothesize that a decrease in food availability in Florida Bay precipitated this decrease in pelican numbers. The status of Brown Pelican populations has been evaluated on geopolitical rather than biological boundaries. The conservation of sensitive species requires consideration of local population trends, especially those that may represent special genetic stocks.
10.2307/1521551|As many as 6000 Silver Gulls (Larus novaehollandiae) per hour were recorded leaving a landfill near Wollongong, Australia during the breeding season. The numbers of gulls that entered and left this site varied seasonally, with a minimum recorded in the non-breeding season. In two breeding seasons, from September 1988 to January 1991, 74% and 62% of wing-tagged, breeding gulls visited the landfill from an island breeding colony 12 km away. Gulls visited the depot on approximately half the number of days monitored. Within a day, most individuals (62% of marked birds observed) visited the depot only once, although some individuals visited up to four times. The average duration of visits was 1 h. These data suggest a high turnover of gulls at the landfill. Over two breeding seasons, 85% of regurgitations from Silver Gulls trapped at nests contained only human refuse, 13% only natural food, and 2% a mixture of both. Meat comprised 63% of the human refuse and the rest consisted of a variety of other (mainly starchy) items. The data suggest either that gulls gorged themselves quickly at the landfill site or that a considerable amount of refuse was obtained away from the landfill site under investigation. The proportion of the population feeding on natural food changed from 5% to 25% through the breeding season, paralleling changes in the number of young chicks in the colony and the density of the breeding population. The highest proportion of natural food in regurgitates was consistently recorded early in the breeding season (September) when the first eggs of the season had hatched. These early eggs produced most of the fledged chicks for the breeding season.
10.2307/1521313| We studied the at-sea distribution of seabirds within the Galapagos Islands from ships during the austral winter of 1984. The distribution of certain seabird species was correlated with sea surface temperature, distance from land and distance from breeding colonies. White-vented Storm-Petrel (Oceanites gracilis), Wedge-rumped Storm-Petrel (Oceanodroma tethys), Brown Pelican (Pelecanus occidentalis), Blue-footed Booby (Sula nebouxii), and Masked Booby (Sula dactylatra) were most abundant in the western part of the archipelago in an area characterized by cool, upwelled water. This area, where other studies have correlated high concentrations of phyotoplankton, invertebrates and other organisms with upwelled water, appears to be a major feeding area for these birds. The factors that influence the distribution of other seabird species that occurred most abundantly in other regions of the archipelago remain unclear. /// Se estudi la distribucin litoral de aves marinas dentro de las Islas Galpagos desde barcos durante el invierno austral de 1984. La distribucin de algunas especies de aves marinas fue correlacionada con temperaturas de la superficie del mar y con las distancias a tierra y a las colonias de nidificacin. Dos especies de golondrinas de mar (Oceanites gracilis y Oceanodroma tethys), el pelicano caf (Pelecanus occidentalis), el piquero patas azules (Sula nebouxii) y el piquero blanco (Sula dactylatra) fueron ms abundantes en la parte occidental del archipilago en un rea caracterizada por agua fra que surge hacia la superficie. Este rea, donde otros estudios han correlacionado concentraciones altas de fitoplancton, invertebrados y otros organismos asociados con este tipo de agua, parece ser una zona mayor de alimentacin para estas aves. Los factores que influyen en la distribucin de otras especies de aves marinas que fueron encontradas ms abundantemente en otras regines del archipilago, continuan siendo poco conocidos. 
10.2307/1521767|At a Minnesota Forster's Tern colony (Sterna forsteri), I investigated the role of seasonal fluctuations of major prey species and measured the feeding rates and types of prey delivered to the colony during 2 critical periods: courtship feeding of females before and after egg formation and feeding of chicks (at various stages). Mean courtship feeding rates were 0.7 (1992) and 1.3 (1993) feedings/h, with rates generally higher during the evening. There was a significant decline in courtship feeding rates after egg laying. Chicks less than 1-2 weeks old were fed 2.3 fish/h, but this decreased to only 1.4 fish/h at 3 weeks. As chicks aged size of the terns' prey increased significantly from 3.3 cm (week 1) to 5.2 cm (week 3). The most abundant species of fish seined at selected feeding areas was the spottail shiner (Notropis hudsonius) in 1992 and yellow perch (Perca flavescens) in 1993. The main species of fish brought back to the colony were yellow perch, shiners (Notropis spp.), and sunfish (Lepomis spp.). Forster's Terns are primarily piscivores; when available, yellow perch are easily captured and therefore more often consumed in freshwater areas.
