24113506|Conservation treatments often take place at the scale of vegetation stands and affect within-stand heterogeneity and coexistence patterns of species first. Therefore, it is important to capture changes in these characteristics of vegetation to assess response to treatments early. We propose a method based on Juhsz-Nagy's information theory models, which is capable of describing fine-scale spatial structure of plant communities and characterizes temporal processes as a function of spatial pattern. The proposed multiscale approach handles structural complexity and its dependence on spatial scales with the help of a few coenological descriptors and helps to reveal how fine-scale vegetation pattern affects dynamics. The information statistical functions used in our study (species combination diversity, FD and associatum, As) characterize the scale-dependent variability of multispecies coexistence (structural complexity) and multispecies spatial dependence (the degree of spatial organization). The maxima of these functions and the related characteristic areas (plot sizes) can be used to construct an abstract coenostate space, where spatiotemporal processes (degradation, regeneration) can be followed. We demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed methods for detecting degradation and monitoring vegetation changes in different stands (18 seminatural and 13 slightly degraded stands) of Brachypodium pinnatum dominated wooded steppe meadows in Hungary. The information theory measures captured changes of fine-scale vegetation patterns that remained unexplored by species richness and Shannon diversity. The maximum values of information statistical measures and the related characteristic areas detected differences between seminatural and slightly degraded stands. In the coenostate space, seminatural stands appeared to be less variable compared to degraded ones. Seminatural stands from various geographic locations were less dispersed in this space, i.e., less heterogeneous than degraded ones. The two regions of the coenostate-space defined by the set of seminatural and degraded stands were significantly different. Furthermore, we conclude that the region containing seminatural stands can be regarded as a reference region in this abstract space. Temporal variation of seminatural and degraded stands was also clearly different. Therefore, we recommend the approach for exploring the actual dynamic states of vegetation stands to be treated and for following consequences of treatments in order to determine effectiveness of the conservation action.
24113680|We tested the relationship between water chemical variables and macrophyte vegetation in an oxbow-lake of the Upper-Tisza, Hungary. There were 42 relevs in random plots of 2 m by 2 m and 20 chemical variables (Ca, Fe, Hydrogencarbonate, K, carbonate, Kjeldahl-nitrogen, chloride, COD(Cr), Mg, m-alkalinity, Mn, Na, NH 4 , NO 2 , NO 3 , dissolved orthophosphate-P, total phosphorus, pH, sulphate and conductivity) and a biological one (chlorophyll a) were measured. Detrended canonical correspondence analysis was used to explore the species-vegetation-water chemical variables relationship. Our results revealed that there were pronounced differences both in the vegetation and the chemical variables among the different kinds of vegetation patches. According to the DCCA, Trapetum natantis, Glycerietum maximae, Ceratophyllo-Nymphaeetum albae and Typhetum angustifoliae associations could be separated based on the relevs and environmental variables. Kjeldahl nitrogen and carbonate were found to be the most important variables. Our results suggest that water chemical variables had strong influence on vegetation development. The groups of relevs identified by the DCCA were coherent with classical phytosociological categories.
24113599|Two fish species, one top predator (Imparfinis mirini) and one intermediate detritivorous species (Hisonotus depressicauda), were experimentally manipulated to evaluate their relative importance in structuring the periphytic community, as well as their effects on the other trophic levels. An enclosure experiment was conducted in the Potreirinho creek, a second order tributary of Paranapanema River, SE Brazil. Five treatments were used: enclosure of the predator species, enclosure of the detritivorous species, enclosure of both together, exclusion of all fish species (closed control cage), and cage open to all fish community (open control). Through direct and indirect effects, I. mirini. when alone, gave rise to a trophic cascade that resulted in a positive effect on algal resources. Through direct effects, H. depressicauda, when alone, reduced the amount of organic matter, resulting in a positive indirect effect on algae. In addition, when the two species were enclosed together, only the effects determined by the detritivorous species were present. The results indicate the important role of the intermediate detritivorous species in the maintenance of the composition and trophic structure of the analyzed community by reducing the effects caused by the top predator.
24113630|We analyzed long-term data related to temporal and spatial variation in fish assemblages from five sites along the Suqua River Basin (Crdoba, Argentina). We aimed at determining whether water quality variations generate changes in fish assemblage structure and composition along the river. Despite deterioration of water quality recorded along the basin, fish assemblages were characterized as qualitatively persistent and quantitatively stable, indicating that the specific composition were relatively constant over time. However, on a temporal scale, fish assemblages from the most polluted areas responded to the water quality degradation with a greater variation of species abundance than those from pristine sites. On a spatial scale, changes in fish assemblage structure were related with watershed disturbance gradient and indicated a strong association between fish species distribution and water quality variation. The alterations found in our study suggest a potential imbalance of fish assemblage structure in the long term.
90002619|We established transects under twenty
90002556|The recent version of the DIVERSI program package runs on IBM-PC compatible machines with DOS operating system or a business system which includes DOS client (such as WINDOWS NT, 2000, XP). All routines work with dbase data files. The program calculates diversity indices and their confidence intervals, the significance of diversity differences, index sensitivity and fit some abundance models to actual data. Quadratic entropy and members of the ESS and NESS similarity index family are also included. Hardware requirements, data file operations and examples are provided in a Users Guide. An example of calculating quadratic entropy is presented.
24113652|Ground beetles were studied among grassland - forest edge - beech forest habitats in Hungary, using pitfall traps. We hypothesised that the activity density and species richness of carabids were the highest in the forest edge, the activity density and the number of forest species were decreasing, while the activity density and the number of generalist species increasing from the forest towards the grassland. Carabid assemblage of the grassland was the most diverse and the forest was the least diverse if measured by Rnyi diversity. The average species richness per trap was significantly higher in the grassland and in the edge than in the forest. The number of forest species was significantly higher in the edge than elsewhere. The number of generalist species was highest in the grassland and decreased towards the forest. The activity density of carabids was significantly higher in the forest and in the forest edge than in the grassland. The activity density of forest species was higher in the forest and in the edge than in the grassland. The activity density of the generalist species was higher in the grassland than in the forest edge and in the forest. There were seven species characteristic to the grassland as identified by IndVal; two species were characteristic to the edge, and two species were characteristic both to the forest and the edge. We found that humidity was the highest in the forest; Pterostichus oblongopunctatus and Molops piceus were associated with the forest habitat, while A box ater and Pterostichus melanarius were associated with the forest edge according to the RDA. The the shrub cover was the most relevant factor in the edge; Abax ater and Pterostichus melanarius were associated with this habitat.
24113455|Measurements of trait community composition are known to be sensitive to the way species abundance is assessed, but not to what extent. This was investigated by considering two of the most commonly used indices of community trait composition, trait averages and functional diversity, in bee communities along a post-fire environmental gradient. The indices were computed using three different species abundance measurements (log and unlog number of individuals and species occurrence only) and 5 traits. For certain traits, the responses of the indices to fire varied according to how species abundance was measured. The measurements that took species abundance into account in the most distinct way (e.g., occurrence vs. unlog data) produced the least similar results for all traits. Species were then grouped into different classes on the basis of their relative abundance (i.e., dominants, subdominants, and rare species). As a result, the measure that attaches the highest importance to the abundance of species (unlog data) related mostly to the dominant species traits, while the measure attaching the lowest (i.e., species occurrence) related more to rare species traits. Species diversity was mostly independent of trait averages and functional diversity, regardless of the measure of species abundance used. We also quantified functional redundancy (i.e., the potential minus the observed functional diversity in each community). When more weight was attached to species abundance, redundancy decreased and tended to be less correlated with species diversity. Overall, the way species abundance is taken into consideration in indices of functional composition offers promising insights into the way community assembly mechanisms respond to environmental changes.
24113453|Two basic concepts of guild definition were developed in community ecology that enable simplification of complex communities or ecosystems into structural building blocks of species with similar niches. Root defined guild as a group of species utilising the same environmental resources by a similar foraging method. MacMahon et al. simplified the original definition even more by excluding a foraging method. This concept is focused on utilisation patterns of resources by species regardless the purpose of use. Our objectives were: (1) to test guild structure within a model ecosystem from matrices reflecting the differences between the two concepts, (2) to compare guild patterns detected by the two concepts, (3) to test whether the mixed forest ecosystem consists of significantly different groups of species representing deciduous and coniferous faunal elements. The study was conducted in a primeval beech-fir forest in NW Slovakia during 19972000. In total, 26 bird species were used for further numerical analyses. Two data matrices were constructed reflecting the differences between the two guild concepts. To statistically determine guild structure without arbitrary fusion criteria, a bootstrapped cluster analysis (UPGMA) of chord distances was employed to analyse the data matrices. Symmetric correspondence analysis (CA) was applied for extraction of eigenvectors responsible for the segregation of species into guilds. The classification proposed by Root produced two guild models at the levels of 6 or 9 group partitions at  = 0.10, while the classification following MacMahon et al. detected 7 guild types. The guild structures based on the two concepts were significantly different when tested by two-tailed Wilcoxon paired sample tests and the Monte Carlo among-cluster error sum of squares (SSQ) distance simulation test. Six out of the eight interpretable factors (75%) indicated analogous environmental gradients when comparing two CA ordinations. The most important environmental gradients were: (1) vertical foraging substrate  habitat structure, (2) water  terrestrial foraging substrate gradient, (3) spatial tree morphology, (4) terrestrial foraging substrate gradient, (5) arboreal  airspace gradient, and (6) mountain stream environmental gradient. We did not detect significantly different guilds for generalists and for coniferous and deciduous forest specialists.
24113357|In previous studies a minimum message length fuzzy clustering method was applied to vegetation data and shown to give sensible estimates for the number of clusters as well as consistent estimates of cluster parameters. The minimum message length method provides a principled method of choosing between models and between classes of models. It comprises 2 components; one coding the model and its associated (meta)parameter values, the other coding the data, given the model. The program uses uncorrelated Gaussian distributions as a model for the distribution of attributes within clusters. This assumption may not be acceptable and in this paper a more general model, the t-distribution, has been examined. The t-distribution provides a class of thick-tailed models, while including the Gaussian as a subclass. This should be appropriate in hierarchical clustering where, even if the final clusters had internal Gaussian distributions, the upper levels would not. In addition, it may provide a better model of within-cluster distribution of the attributes even in the final clusters. Although forcing the use of t-distributions was not profitable, allowing a choice between Gaussian and t-distributions for each attribute in each class resulted in improved results. This was despite only one attribute actually selecting the t-distribution over the Gaussian.
24113346|Earlier, as a result of processing maps of trees and crown projections of 90-year-old spruce stands in the Moscow suburbs, nonuniform trends of correlation coefficients between areas of tree crown projections and areas of Voronoi polygons was detected in a series of sites ranked by increasing coefficient of variation of stem diameter. The observed behavior was analyzed using an original two-dimensional model of the dynamics of a plant community. Theoretical measures of competition in a community, which base on the definition of competition show that the process of competition in relatively uniform communities is not uniform. The coefficients of correlation mentioned above can be considered as measures of competition and such competition is not regular or uniform especially in uniform communities. The latter circumstance gives possibility to estimate the duration of biomass growth of freely growing spruce in the Moscow suburbs for 1000 years. Because of limitation of a two-dimensional resource model some characteristics of communities, such as coefficients of variation and correlation features of neighborhoods, differ from experimental values rather significantly.
90002410|I consider relationships between functional feeding morphology and feeding ecology within a guild of dabbling ducks (
24113463|Litter mass represents a key factor in the process of carbon sequestration. Pine plantations are known to accumulate high amounts of litter, which may act as real carbon sink only if it persists for long time. Thus, predicting litter mass by means of robust and straightforward models which convey information from several ecological predictors become crucial in this framework. The aim of this paper was to test for relationships between environmental predictors and pine litter mass (total branch, needle and cone) by Generalized Linear Models, exploring the contribution of different environmental variables in describing patterns of pine litter mass. Different predictors accounting for seasonality, spatial and geomorphological variability, pine stand properties, remotely sensed derived biomass were taken into account. Considering total litter mass, observed vs. predicted values showed a statistically highly significant relation (p < 0.001) by retaining four variables: elevation, latitude, stand age and season. Similar results were achieved for the needle litter mass, which represented anyway the largest fraction of the litter. Regarding branch litter mass, only stand age appeared to be a significant variable. For cone litter mass, no variables were statistically significant in explaining its variance. Potential ecological background processes responsible for the correlations between variables are discussed.
24113458|We studied the vegetation of 54 sandy old-fields abandoned at different times. We first surveyed the vegetation in 1998 and developed predictions about the spontaneous succession using the chronosequence approach. Afterwards, we repeated the survey in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, and based on this monitoring we tested the predictions of the chronosequence study. For both approaches, we analysed the changes in functional group composition during succession. According to the chronosequence study, the most important changes occurred in the youngest old-fields, abandoned 1-4 years ago: the species number and abundance of annuals, disturbance-requiring and anthropogenic species decreased, and those of perennials, grassland generalists, and species with low disturbance-tolerance increased. No changes were predicted for the older fields. The monitoring confirmed the predictions for the youngest old-fields. However, during the 5 years of monitoring several functional groups changed in their species number or abundance even on the older abandoned fields. Both of the methods showed that secondary succession on sandy old-fields is relatively fast. The chronosequence study provided a more static view of the processes, while the multi-year monitoring revealed that there were considerable inter-annual changes as well. With the yearly monitoring we can detect the effect of additional factors, such as land use changes (e.g., changes in grazing intensity) and yearly climate fluctuations on the direction and rate of secondary succession.
24113356|Advanced techniques of network analysis allow the quantification of the indirect interactions and the topological importance of components in ecological interaction networks. In current conservation biology, considering indirect causal effects, identifying keystone species and outlining multispecies approaches begin to be high priority goals. We make an attempt to connect these issues within a network context. Our main interest is to determine the positionally most important set of n nodes in a network, to analyse whether a set of nodes for small n is a subset of another for larger n, and to quantify this nestedness. We apply the KeyPlayer software, a novel tool for network analysis in ecology, introduced originally in mathematical sociology. Topological keystone species complexes are defined, we illustrate the use of this method in a case study and analyse a database of 9 plant-pollinator interaction networks. Our main conclusion is that multispecies approaches may give results very different from single species analyses.
24113634|In arid and semi-arid ecosystems, the presence of woody neighbours affects the existence of several herbaceous species by modifying critical aspects of the environment (e.g., soil humidity, nutrient content or light availability) beneath their canopies. Herbaceous species growing in the understory of Pinus pinaster may be distinct from those in open areas due to litter fall, light interception and changes in nutrient availability. We suggest that the overall effect of woody neighbours on herbaceous layer diversity may vary with the scale focus of analysis. To examine this hypothesis, we collected data on the abundance of herbaceous species in open pineland forests of the central Iberian Peninsula (Spain) using sample quadrats of 0.5 m  0.5 m distributed beneath, at the edge, and outside the canopy of pines in a landscape composed of dunes and plains. The results of CCA ordination revealed significant spatial segregation of herbaceous species reflecting the occurrence of pines and dunes in the landscape. Nested ANOVA disclosed markedly lower species richness beneath the pines, particularly in the dune sites. Species richness partitioning showed higher pine-induced heterogeneity than expected from the sample-based randomized model, leading to significantly increased species richness at the patch level. Hence, the outcome of pine-induced effects on the herbaceous plant diversity is scale-dependent, negative if we focus on separate communities, but positive if the scale focus is extended to whole patches comprising the sum of communities beneath, at the edge, and outside pine tree canopies. These results emphasize the necessity of using various scale perspectives to clarify the different ways in which pines and other woody nurse species affect structure of herbaceous communities in semi-arid Mediterranean ecosystems.
90002475|Important predictors of the species richness of vascular plants and epiphytic lichens on
24113408|Species-area curves (SACs) are generally described as power laws. As power laws, SACs imply fractality in the relation between the number of species and area. In nature, however, the power-law form of SACs is generally observed only within a certain range of areas, not at all spatial scales. Full-scale nested SACs, from the smallest (a few individuals) to largest (regional) scales, may be best fitted by a logistic function. This is because large-scale and small-scale species richness are generally not under similar controls and, consequently, the shape of the SAC changes with scale. At the smallest scales, the form of the SAC is shaped by the autocorrelation structure of environmental conditions among neighboring sites. At the opposite end, the scaling behavior of SACs is controlled by the richness of the regional species pool. Therefore, a unifying scaling theory that bridges the gap between small-scale and large-scale species-area relationships is desirable. In this paper, I suggest that logistic SACs can be considered 'asymptotic fractals' that are characterized by a scaling exponent continuously changing with scale.
24113345|Palynological records helped to illuminate the past, but we show the take can be made much sharper when statistical analysis recognises the records' scale dependence. The latter is an unavoidable consequence of site selection, sediment sampling, and the samples' arrangement into time series by dating. To make provision for this in statistical analysis, scale has to be incorporated as one of the intrinsic variables. But by incorporating scale, the analysis will render the outcome not to be a single conclusion, the usual case in conventional statistics, but a multitude of conclusions each regarding the same set of response and forcing variables and each as valid at its own scale as any of the other conclusions at theirs. Thus, the central question for a usable Statistics is this: how to incorporate scale into the analysis and still have a unique conclusion. We address the methodological aspects and illustrate them by worked examples. We use 14 sites scattered across the globe. Interestingly, the analysis of these brought forth hitherto hidden aspects of the temporal synchronicity of change in palynological composition and concomitant atmospheric temperature oscillations that should greatly interest Ecology, as one critique put it, in the age of Global Change. The examples testify to a conceptual advance in laying open a very basic principle: the synchronicity's statistically strong formation specificity, dominantly positive (in frequency terms) for climate warming at sites in the currently humid, micro- and mesothermal zones, and negative in the currently arid and semi-arid zones. Our paper begins with an introduction to the terminology of multiscale analysis in Ecology, followed by data sources, the method we call canonical serial scaling, and objectives. A detailed discussion of data properties with special attention to error sources in palynology is provided. The method components discussed include the scalars of compositional transition and synchronicity, error dampening, stabilisation of the synchronicity scalar and its sign distribution, analysis of time shifted series, the use of deviation graphs, and pointers to help detect hotspots and other characteristic points of change on the time axis.
90004010|We established microcosms of crop species (
24113359|We assess the performance of a new clustering method for Hierarchical Factor Classification of variables, which is based on the evaluation of the least differences among representative variables of groups, as defined by a set of two-dimensional Principal Components Analysis. As an additional feature the method gives at each step a principal plane where both grouped variables and units, as seen only by these variables, can be projected. We compare the method results with both single and complete linkage clustering, applied to simulated data with known correlation structure and we evaluate the results with a coherence measure based on the entropy between the expected partitions and those found by the methods. We found that the Hierarchical Factor Classification method performed as good as, and in some cases better than, both single and complete linkage clustering in detecting the known group structures in simulated data, with the advantage that the groups of variables and the units can be viewed on principal planes where usual interpretations apply.
24113538|We assess if the structural and floristic diversity of Juniperus-Ilex forests from Pico Island (Azores) corresponds to a mosaic of different phases of a forest cycle, by identifying the phases of that cycle and the dynamic relations between them. Eight 100 m2 plots were placed randomly in areas with structural and floristic differences but having in common the presence of live and/or dead individuals of the dominant tree species (Juniperus brevifolia). In each plot the number of seedlings, saplings, and adults as well as canopy height and width and maximum height of live Juniperus brevifolia and Ilex azorica adults were recorded. The floristic composition was determined in a 25 m2 plot, placed inside each 100 m2 plot. Juniperus-Ilex forests show a cyclic patch dynamic triggered by the senescence and death of even-aged individuals of J. brevifolia. In this forest cycle, five phases were identified, such as gap, building, mature, initial degenerative and final degenerative. The first two phases are dominated by J. brevifolia however in the degenerative phases I. azorica is the dominant tree species. The cycle may be divided into an upgrade series (comprising the first two phases) and a downgrade series (between the mature and final degenerative phases). In these forests there was no climax micro-succession detected since changes in the dominant tree species occur in the degenerative phases. This paper brings the first evidence for the existence of a forest cycle in Macaronesian forests.
90002474|Within-community species-area relationships were examined for vascular plants and epiphytic lichens on
24113529|Amongst all terrestrial ecosystems, the productivity of Mediterranean-type ecosystems has been suggested to be one of the most responsive to increasing atmospheric CO2. The extent to which this prediction holds will depend in part on plant responses to elevated CO2 under the highly variable conditions characteristic of semiarid regions. Structure and composition responses of a semi-natural grassland community to a step-increase in atmospheric CO2 (to about 580 mol mol-1) were examined in the field using Free-Air CO2 Enrichment (FACE) under seasonally varying moisture conditions. The limited production response to elevated concentrations of atmospheric CO2 of this grassland community was counterbalanced by the effect on the phenology of many species. These findings suggest that predictions regarding Mediterranean plant responses to elevated CO2 should account for seasonal patterns of production regulatory responses, which may vary across species and plant functional types.
90002485|The characteristics discussed are measurable on the process trajectory, the path traced out by vegetation transitions in time. It is argued that since the trajectory is symptomatic of factor influences and governing principles, it has to be an object of central interest in dynamic studies. Theoretical points, scaling scenarios, and analytical tools are the main topics. Numerical examples illustrate the applications.
24113363|The question addressed in this paper is whether plant traits and plant functional types related to forage selection by grazers are also related to those expressing short-term community response after grazing. Vegetation of natural campos grassland in south Brazil was examined for species composition and locally described for seven morphological traits before and after a controlled grazing period by bovine cattle. An optimization algorithm was used for the identification of plant functional effect types (PFefT) and plant functional response types (PFreT) - in this case, groups of plants similar in a given set of traits (assessed before and after one grazing short period, respectively) and in their association to grazing intensity. The results have shown that plant traits optimally defining plant types related to forage selection (PFefTs) were the same traits optimally defining short-term community response to grazing (PFreTs); also similar trends of plant morphological variation were observed among populations before and after grazing, based on the traits' correlation structure. However, at the community level the correlation vanished, since similar communities described by the performances of PFefTs were not as similar when described by PFreTs. Hence, whether plant functional types related to forage selection (effect types) are also related to community response to grazing may depend on the level of organization considered. The paper advances on the operational definition of possible overlaps between effect and response plant functional types.
90002493|A simple to calculate and statistically testablemethod is proposed for assessing species abundance unevenness or dominance concentration within plant communities. Dominance rather than evenness is considered the preferred measure, because perfect evenness can be defined and used as a benchmark for comparing communities regardless of floristic richness. Four dominance (Simpson, Berger-Parker, McIntosh, and a proposed [
24113654|Little is known of how changes in plant function may influence adaptive traits amongst animals further up the food chain. We addressed the hypothesis that shifts in plant functional traits are associated with the adaptive function of animal species which have an indirect trophic link. We compared community characteristics and functional traits of two trophically detached biotic groups (vascular plants and carabid beetles) along a primary succession on terrain at the Cedec glacier in the Alps, where dglaciation events following post-Little Ice Age climate warmings are marked by moraine ridges. Morphofunctional traits were recorded: canopy height (CH), leaf dry matter content (LDMC), leaf dry weight (LDW) and specific leaf area (SLA) (for plants) and the number of brachypterous, autumn-breeding and predator species, and average body length (for carabid beetles). We found that vegetation cover and plant species richness gradually increased throughout early succession, with an abrupt increase between 40 and 150 years after deglaciation. At the early stages of the succession plant traits were typical of ruderal species (high SLA, low CH, LDW) whilst a shift in traits towards stress-tolerance (low SLA) occurred >150 years. Carabid communities and traits changed alongside changes in plant species richness and cover, with late successional vegetation hosting larger, more diverse, less mobile carabid species with longer larval development. Thus, ruderal plant strategies are the main contributors during vegetation development, determining vegetation quantity, and probably have the greatest impact on changes in carabid assemblages by regulating resource availability. Plants then require greater stress-tolerance to survive in stable vegetation, which supports high carabid diversity. This suggests that different plant strategies may affect ground beetle communities via contrasting mechanisms: both quantities (biomass, species richness) and qualities (functional traits, adaptive strategies) should be taken into account during studies of plant-animal interactions within ecosystems.
24113601|Adult fly collections were made in May and August 2006, from the mud of a salty lake in the Kiskunsg National Park, Hungary. We collected 21,600 individuals of 62 species in May and 18,400 individuals of 81 species in August, giving a total of 103 species (only 40 appearing in both seasons). Dominant species were different in the two collections. Five species are new for the Hungarian fauna. Diversity measured by several indices was higher in the May collection. We observed simultaneously a nearly lognormal distribution and a power-law like behaviour of the abundances.
90002502|This study investigated if ecological traits of forest floor vegetation could be used as indicators of naturalness of beech forest in Hungary, by comparing near-natural unmanaged stands with managed ones. Seventeen patches in the unmanaged Kkes Forest Reserve were compared with 11 subcompartments of different ages in the surrounding managed forest. In each stand, the character state distributions of 9 ecological species traits were calculated based on presence/absence data of plants. Averages for unmanaged versus managed stands were compared. Significant effects of management were shown. The characteristics of herbaceous plants with higher frequency in managed stands include late start and longer duration of flowering, overwintering canopy, and small epizoochorous seeds. Unmanaged stands are richer in plants that bear leaves from spring to autumn, start flowering early or flower very shortly, produce large seeds. Relevance of this method is discussed for Central Europe, where in large areas intensive forest management rather than fragmentation or break in forest continuity is the major human disturbance.
90002479|This study investigates the relationship between seed dispersal and spatial pattern in a population of wild oats (
90002569|Quantitative remote sensing is becoming increasingly important due to the broader availability of well-calibrated airborne and spaceborne imaging spectrometers. We demonstrate the additional benefit of imaging spectrometers in the retrieval of biochemical and biophysical variables using a general overview of recent contributions of these instruments in a programmatic context and describe in detail in a regional test case the inversion of a radiative transfer model to achieve the overall goal. Imaging spectroscopy today enables the biogeophysical and biogeochemical variables of the continental biosphere processes to be measured with
90004011|Several evenness measures have been proposed for quantifying the distribution of abundance among community species, but none seems to be generally preferred. Since these measures have the common objective of summarizing community structure, they may be expected to be intercorrelated. In this paper, seven standard measures of evenness were calculated for 65 sample plots of ruderal vegetation within the archaeological sites of Paestum and Venosa (southern Italy). Principal component analysis was used to identify the primary aspects of community structure being characterized by these seven indices. The first two principal components explained 96% of total variance. A comparison of the first two principal components with the analyzed measures of evenness provides insight into what aspects of community structure they are expressing. While the first principal component is most sensitive to the relative abundances of rare species, the second principal component is clearly associated to changes in the abundance of the dominant community species.
24113405|A drop disc, originally conceived as a quick and easy method of measuring vegetation height, was compared to the more labour-intensive point quadrat pins in terms of usefulness in quantifying the vertical architecture of field-layer vegetation at a number of broadleaved woodland sites in Buckinghamshire, UK. The drop disc produced measures of height which correlated strongly with those of the point quadrat, as well as a potentially useful value corresponding to 'volume of vegetation', and it is suggested that this technique was relatively more efficient at producing useful data. A number of measures of architectural complexity showed considerable variation in how they ranked sites based upon both real and contrived data. One of these, Fisher's (or Williams') alpha, is shown to be unsuitable for this application. Based upon the weak and non-significant correlations of derived statistics, the practical difficulties in measuring architecture and unfounded assumptions that regard all arthropod species en masse, it is reasoned that explanations of community patterns with respect to architecture must be treated with caution.
24113350|Assembly rules are measures of community structure that link observed patterns with ecological processes, and as such may help to elucidate the mechanisms by which species coexist. We apply two approaches to a lawn community  limiting similarity and guild proportionality  hoping that agreement between them might give robust conclusions. We tested for agreement between these two assembly rules using functional characters that are related to two aspects of species function  light capture and response to defoliation. We combined point quadrat data and a null model approach to test for limiting similarity  a tendency for species differing in functional characters to co-occur more often than expected at random  in turves extracted from the lawn community. Examining the variance in the characters of the species co-occuring at each point, evidence for limiting similarity was found for mowing removal (the proportion of leaf area removed in mowing events). There was greater variation between the species co-occurring at a point than expected at random (i.e., under an appropriate null model). However, no such evidence was found for characters related uniquely to light capture, such as specific leaf area and pigment concentrations. In a previous study in the same community, "intrinsic" guilds had been determined from co-occurrences within the lawn community and from a competition experiment, as those effective in determining species assembly and co-existence. These intrinsic guilds are shown by t-test to differ in the proportion of their biomass removed in mowing (MRI), which is of course related to the height at which their leaf area is held. However, again no differences were seen in characters related uniquely to light capture. Thus, the two different approaches to assembly rules  guild proportionality and limiting similarity  agree that differences in response to mowing are responsible for species co-existence in the lawn community. The agreement between these two approaches, tested on independent datasets of quite different type from the same community, gives possibly the strongest evidence so far that niche differentiation may be responsible for local co-existence in plant communities. However, although MRI is related to this co-existence the lack of correlation with light-capture characters leads to speculation that the effects might be via the below-ground behaviour of the species.
90002551|We used multivariate analysis to model boreal forest stand structure and dynamics at Riding Mountain National Park. Manitoba based on data from 202 sampled stands. Eight forest stand-types were recognized based on canopy composition: black spruce on peat substrates, jack pine  black spruce, bur oak, eastern deciduous (green ash  American elm  Manitoba maple), balsam fir, trembling aspen  paper birch  mountain maple, trembling aspen  balsam poplar, and white spruce. The first four stand-types occur in edaphically distinct environments, while the four remaining boreal mixedwood stand-types occur in edaphically similar environments. We found that the composition and abundance of advance regeneration were best predicted by current canopy composition (redundancy = 54.4%); this reflects both the limited dispersal of conifer seeds and the strong vegetative reproductive capacity of hardwoods. Biotically-controlled site factors such as bareground. herb and shrub cover, ungulate browsing intensity, and stand age were also reasonably good predictors of advance regeneration (redundancy = 31.7%). Edaphic variables such as soil pi I. conductivity, particle size, organic horizon depth and slope proved to be poor predictors of advance regeneration, however (redundancy = 18.1%). Size-class ordination indicated that many stand-types have relatively short successional trajectories, suggesting limited change in forest canopy composition over time. There are two exceptions: in the jack pine  black spruce stand-type, black spruce will increase over time, and in the trembling aspen  paper birch  mountain maple stand-type, eastern deciduous species (green ash, American elm, Manitoba maple, and bur oak) are forecast to become increasingly dominant. We also describe a synoptic model of mixedwood boreal forest stand dynamics for the Riding Mountain area. The model includes a number of factors that we consider to be critical determinants of forest dynamics, such as seed source availability, small and large-scale disturbances, species life-history characteristics, and environmental gradients. Our succession model is more similar those described for eastern than western Canada, which may reflect the lower frequency of catastrophic fires in the Riding Mountain area compared to boreal forests further west. Our model emphasizes that successional trajectories do not converge towards a single self-perpetuating climax. Instead, successional vectors may diverge, converge or remain cyclical, and multiple potential pathways are possible for each stand-type. Our results also illustrate that species assemblages, and the propensity for canopy change in the absence of fire, are governed by the cumulative and synergistic effects of climate, topography, disturbance frequency, size and intensity, edaphic conditions, and the proximity of parental seed sources. Fire suppression in the southern boreal forest has resulted in a paradigm shift in disturbance regime, from large, synchronous catastrophic fires to small-scale, asynchronous gap formation. A major challenge for boreal forest ecologists is to determine the long-term consequences of this paradigm shift on the composition, structure and health of boreal forest stands and landscapes.
24113502|There is strong pressure to embrace indicators for practical goals such as nature conservation and management and to evaluate the restoration success, but the selection of appropriate indicators is not straightforward. In addition, the grain and the type of data collected and data transformation adopted can influence restoration monitoring results. In this paper, we assessed the effect of changing indicator, grain size (i.e., plot dimension) and data transformation in discriminating different mapped plant communities, relying on vascular plant composition data. We considered flora entities at different taxonomic scales of resolution as indicators and used biological forms such as life forms, growth forms and a combination of the two types, i.e., life and growth forms, as rough plant traits. We also analysed the contribution of species as indicators of the different land cover classes by performing an Indicator Species Analysis. We evaluated the effect of changing indicator (taxonomic resolution, life and growth forms and indicator species), grain size and data transformation using permutational multivariate analysis of variance on cover data expressed in percentages and as simple presence/absence. Our results demonstrated that indicators such as taxonomic resolution and biological forms have partial success in discriminating between plant communities, only for the analysis performed on presence/absence data, and that the effects of changing indicator varied depending on the data transformation used. On the contrary, indicator species are coherently effective and changing the grain size has a moderate influence on their ability to discriminate among the habitat types investigated. Hence, indicator species emerged as a promising tool in restoration monitoring. Although indicators are not supposed to substitute comprehensive surveys of vegetation, their use can help redirect considerable time, resources and expertise to more replication and better sampling design.
24113648|Results of two field experiments showed that selective removal of omnivorous mosquito larvae (Aedes triseriatus (Say)) functioning as top predators in the food web of a temperate, tree hole ecosystem resulted rapidly in increased abundance of flagellate and then ciliate populations. Flagellate density increased from <1 per ml to >10 3 per ml within 4 days of omnivore removal, followed shortly thereafter by an increase in ciliate density from < 1 per ml to > 10 2 per ml, after which flagellate density declined, and flagellate and ciliate densities stabilized. Rod-shaped bacteria increased slightly in density after removal of larval mosquitoes, then declined as protist density increased. Cocciform bacteria did not vary in density with these changes, thus the trophic cascade dampened at the remotest trophic level. Concomitant with the increase in protist densities, some bacteria formed elongated filaments >10 m in length, likely an anti-predation, morphological response stimulated by suddenly intensified grazing as protozoan density rose. Results suggest that feeding by omnivorous mosquito larvae exhibited strong top-down effects on flagellate and ciliate populations, depressing them to below their equilibrium densities and nearly to extinction in tree hole ecosystems.
90002357|The paper advocates a more extensive use of additive trees in community ecology. When the distance/dissimilarity coefficient is selected carefully, these trees can illuminate structural aspects that are not obvious otherwise. In particular, starting from squared distances based on presence/absence data, the resulting trees approximate relationships in species richness, a feature not available through other graphical techniques. The construction of additive trees is illustrated by three actual examples, representing different circumstances in the analysis of grassland community data.
24113347|Link distribution is an important architectural feature of ecological networks, since it is thought to influence community dynamics. Several attempts have been made in order to characterize the typical link distribution of food webs, but the number of webs studied thus far is low and their quality is unbalanced. Comparability is a rarely asked methodological question, and as far as we see only two data bases are available which allow reliable comparison of food webs: one for terrestrial, high resolution, host-parasitoid webs and another for highly aggregated, marine trophic networks. We present an analysis of a set of food webs belonging to the latter type, since the host-parasitoid networks are only subgraphs and therefore uninformative on the structure of the entire community. We address the following three questions: (1) how to characterize the link distribution of these small networks which cannot always be fitted statistically to well-known distributions (such as the exponential or the Poisson, etc.), (2) are these distributions of more or less similar shape or they belong to different architectural classes, and (3) if there are different classes, then what are their distinctive topological and biological properties. We suggest that link distribution of such small networks can be compared to each other by principal coordinates ordination and clustering. We conclude that (1) the webs can be categorized into two different classes, and (2) one of the classes contains significantly larger and topologically more heterogeneous webs for which net output of material is also of higher variance. We emphasize that link distribution is an interesting and important property not only in case of complex, speciose food webs, but also in highly aggregated, low-resolution webs.
90002621|In this paper, logarithmic functions are described based on which the total diversity of a collection can be partitioned into components specific to factorial effects. The standard statistical
24113400|Meta-analysis is used to compare the patterns of the tree and the herb layers in a Central-European deciduous hardwood forest. Vegetation patterns are represented by distance matrices and dendrograms. The significance of the relation between the patterns is evaluated through permutation (Mantel) tests and full randomization (Monte Carlo simulation) tests. The relationship between the two layers is significant but weak. When using ecological indicators as variables for characterising the herb layer, the relation is stronger. Distance matrices and dendrograms describe the vegetation pattern similarly. However, the results of pairwise tests of significance strongly depend on the "level" of comparisons, i.e., whether distance matrices or dendrograms are compared. This follows perhaps from the differences between permutation and full randomization tests.
24113349|We propose a simple method to validate vegetation types in phytosociological tables obtained with the Braun-Blanquet approach. The method is based on fuzzy set theory and it measures the sharpness of a classification of relevs based on degrees of belonging calculated by similarity functions. The idea animating this work is that the validated vegetation types offer non-random species combinations that can be used to model environmental changes taking biodiversity into account. Phytosociological tables are widely available today and the information they contain can be very useful in studying environmental changes at different scales, from local to global.
24113718|We studied the intrapopulational genetic structure of a small rock fern subspecies Asplenium ceterach ssp. ceterach living in a fragmented habitat. The level and distribution of genetic variation are primarily affected by the colonization events, the reproductive properties of the species, and the short-distance (leptokurtic) dispersal of spores. These biological processes are at the same time strongly influenced by the geomorphological heterogeneity of the habitat. The individuals' genetic variation was detected as multilocus RAPD profile. The spatially constrained portion of genetic variance within subpopulations was studied by means of variograms, i.e., the average genetic dissimilarity between the pairs of organisms against the separation distance. The range of reduced dissimilarity was 11-13 m. Mantel test proved that subpopulations are isolated by distance. The connected local population patches may create a metapopulation structure. This study also surveyed the adequacy of RAPD products to detect the low level of genetic variation of a polyploid plant population.
24113361|Plant communities are generally spatially structured. Therefore, in order to enhance the interpretation of distance-dependent community patterns, spatially explicit measures of -diversity are needed that, besides simple species turnover, are able to account for the rate at which biological similarity decays with increasing distance. We show that a multivariate semivariogram computed from species presence and absence data can be considered as a space-dependent alternative to existing definitions of -diversity. To illustrate how the proposed method works, we used a classical data set from a second-growth piedmont hardwood forest.
24113341|The pre-dispersal seed predator, Bruchidius villosus (Coleoptera, Bruchidae) destroyed ca. 8% of seeds of its major host-plant, Laburnum anagyroides (Fabaceae, Genisteae), a tree-like legume, in Hungary. However, almost 40% of the pods were infested by the beetle. Females did not show a resource concentration response: with increasing number of seeds per pod, the number of uninfested seeds also increased. A high seed abortion rate of 75% left an average of two full-grown seeds per pod. Females laid three-four times more eggs on pods than the number of full-grown seeds present in a pod. Despite this, a high level (ca. 15%) of egg parasitism and pod abortion that reached levels up to 50% on pods which already bore bruchid eggs, decreased the infestation level. Larval parasitisation rate of B. villosus by chalcids and braconids exceeded 30%.
90002491|We tested the prediction thatwe aremore likely to create persistent, species-rich plant communities by increasing the number of species sown and allowing communities to assemble over six or seven growing seasons. Treatments consisted of four initial seed mixtures comprising 4, 8, 12 and 16 species that represent four functional groups (C
90002499|We performed a computer assisted experiment to test the accuracy of different ratio scales in estimating vegetation cover. Sixteen subjects estimated the cover level of artificial vegetation patterns displayed on the screen for various levels of resolution (from presence/absence to 100 different states, each measured on the ratio scale). We found that estimation error is minimum when the range of cover is divided into ten equal parts. Finer resolution gives less precise estimation since subjects tend to divide cover level into ten or at most twenty intervals in their mind.
24113626|The study of invasion ecology usually focuses on the negative impacts of alien species, while potential positive impacts are often overlooked. Understanding of biotic interactions may thus be skewed towards the negative, which could have important implications for ecological management and conservation. This article provides a comprehensive review of all types of impacts, both beneficial and detrimental, that can result from species translocation. An extensive review of literature on species introductions to terrestrial, freshwater and marine ecosystems and involving a wide range of taxa (including microorganisms, parasites, plants, insects, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals, fish and Crustacea) showed that, despite limited research into facilitative alien-native interactions, such interactions occur surprisingly frequently. Examples were found of introduced species acting as hosts, food sources, pollinators or seed dispersers for native species, as well as providing herbivory, predatory or parasite release. However, research showed that numerous negative interactions also occurred and combination impacts (when an alien benefits some natives but disadvantages others) were common. In many cases, the traditional view that biological invasions constitute a significant threat to native biota is both accurate and appropriate. Efforts to prevent translocation and control non-native species can be vital. However, the "native good, alien bad" maxim does not convey the complexity of invasion ecology: alien species do not axiomatically pose a threat to native biota. In order to move understanding of invasion ecology forward and to develop maximally-effective management strategies, facilitative alien-native interactions need to be added into the alien species debate.
24113532|Long-term effects of the elevated atmospheric CO2 on biosphere have been in focus of research since the last few decades. In this experiment undisturbed soil monoliths of loess grassland were exposed to an elevated CO2 environment (two-times the ambient CO2 level) for a period of six years with the aid of the open top chamber method. Control without a chamber and CO2 elevation was applied as well. Elevated CO2 level had very little impact on soil food web. It did not influence either root and microbial biomass or microbial and nematode community structure. The only significant response was that density of the bacterial feeder genus Heterocephalobus increased in the chamber with elevated CO2 concentration. Application of the open top chambers initiated more changes on nematodes than the elevated CO2 level. Open top chamber (OTC) method decreased nematode density (total and plant feeder as well) to less than half of the original level. Negative effect was found on the genus level in the case of fungal feeder Aphelenchoides, plant feeder Helicotylenchus and Paratylenchus. It is very likely that the significantly lower belowground root biomass and partly its decreased quality reflected by the increased C/N ratio are the main responsible factors for the lower density of the plant feeder nematodes in the plots of chambers. According to diversity profiles, MI and MI(2-5) parameters, nematode communities in the open top chambers (both on ambient and elevated CO2 level) seem to be more structured than those under normal circumstances six years after start of the experiment.
24113646|Species-specificity of facilitative interactions is ecologically relevant for community organization and dynamics. The prevalence of heterospecific facilitation which is found between higher plants seems an evolutionary paradox since beneficiary heterospecifics can compete with, and even replace, their nurse. An extensive review on facilitative interactions for both higher plants and sessile aquatic organisms is presented. The study reports on the occurrence of positive interactions between conspecifics and heterospecifics, in relation to different growth forms and facilitative mechanisms in terrestrial and aquatic environments. Four hypotheses are considered to explain the observed rarity of conspecific compared to heterospecific facilitation: 1) the occurrence of plant-induced unsuitable recruitment conditions (negative conspecific plant-soil feedback and hump-shaped recruitment distribution), 2) higher competition levels between conspecifics, 3) the prevalence of non-facilitated regeneration niche for nurses, and. 4) differences in the research effort. Self-facilitation is reported much more rarely in terrestrial vegetation (5.3% of 1554 cases of facilitiative interactions), than in aquatic ecosystems (36.2%, n = 130). In absolute terms, far more occurrences of heterospecific facilitative interactions are reported for all growth forms. However, when the occurrences of facilitative interactions are expressed as a percentage of the total con- and heterospecific interactions annual and perennial herbaceous nurse plants show prevailing conspecific interactions, while woody (trees and shrubs) nurse species mostly show heterospecific facilitation. Increase of soil nutrient fertility, improvement of above-ground microclimate, associational refuge and seed trapping are the most common mechanisms of heterospecific interactions. Differently, conspecific facilitation is mostly due to improved soil biotic conditions, changes in fire regimes and reduction of heterospecific competition. Given the frequently reported occurrence of non-facilitated regeneration niche for nurse species, conspecific negative feedback and hump-shaped recruitment distribution in terrestrial plants, these processes are suggested as significantly contributing to explain the observed rarity of conspecific facilitation.
24113543|We suggest a classificatory approach for land cover analysis that integrates fuzzy set theory with permutation techniques. It represents a non parametric alternative and/or a complement of traditional multivariate statistics when data are scarce, missing, burdened with high degree of uncertainty and originated from different sources and/or times. According to this approach, the Operational Geographic Units (OGUs) in which landscape is subdivided and sampled are classified with hierarchical clustering methods. The clusters of a classification which are significantly sharp are used to define fuzzy sets. In this way, the original data scores are transformed by degrees of belonging. We introduce the concepts of endogenous and exogenous fuzzy sets and we suggest to apply the Mantel test between the similarity matrices of these fuzzy sets to test the predictivity of internal variables with respect to external variables. The approach is applied to OGUs corresponding to the smallest administrative units (kebeles) of the Ethiopian Rift Valley, a degrading area with high risk of further degradation. We found that: 1) there is a high correlation between geo-physical features of the landscape (geology, rainfall and elevation) and some indicators of the human pressure such as land use/cover, land management for livestock breeding and human, household and livestock densities, 2) there is a high correlation between land degradation, measured with relative loss of Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) and the human pressure. However, the correlation is higher when the human pressure is considered in the geo-physical context of the landscape. The approach can be easily applied to produce maps useful for planning purposes thanks to geographical information system (GIS) technology that is becoming available at low cost even to small administrative units of developing countries.
24113407|Size-specific interactions between predators can affect both species population dynamics and the structure and biodiversity of communities they inhabit. Interactions between size-structured populations of predators, especially those with complex life-cycles, often change with resource-use changes driven by ontogenetic niche shifts. However, if resource use is determined largely by prey size, generalist predators may compete across a wider range of body sizes and life stages resulting in diffuse intra- and interspecific competition. We examined size- and stage-specific interactions between juvenile sirens (Siren i. intermedia) and adult newts (Notophthalmus viridescens dorsalis) in the context of previous experiments demonstrating competitive equality of larvae and strong effects of adult S. intermedia on adult N. viridescens. Competition between juvenile siren and adult newts was mutually negative and roughly symmetrical. Two S. intermedia reduced growth of three N. viridescens by 21%, while three N. viridescens reduced growth of two S. intermedia by 29%. Together with previous work, this implicates diffuse competition as a critical feature in the ecology of these species across the range of body sizes and suggests that intensity of competition varies more with size than species identity. Competition that varies incrementally with body size expands the realm of possibilities for continuous niche changes and diffuse competition across large size gradients. For generalist predators such as S. intermedia and N. viridescens, body size, except at the extremes, is not an adequate niche difference either intra- or interspecifically.
90002606|DIVERSI 2.2 is a new version of a program package for calculating diversity and related statistics. Shortcomings and errors in the earlier version have been corrected while the new version includes some new routines as well. This paper provides fundamental details together with numerical examples for the benefit of users.
90002612|The Taihang Mountain Range is located at E112 50 -114 30, N35 20- 39 30 in North China. This study aimed to reveal relationships between plant communities, soil variables and topographic variables. Floristic data and environmental data from sixty-eight quadrats of 10 m  20 m along an elevation gradient from 1050 to 2180 m were analysed by TWINSPAN, DCA and CCA. Eight vegetation formations were recognized, all secondary successional stages following the original broad-leaved deciduous forests distraction by human activities. The results showed that the community patterns are related to both soil variables and topographic variables. Among the soil variables, soil N, P, K and organic matter were found to be the most important factors forcing the spatial patterns of plant communities. The vegetation patterns were also significantly correlated with the topographic variables, elevation, slope and aspect. Interactions between the environmental variables were significant. It is concluded that further measures for the conservation of vegetation and protection of soils in the Taihang Mountains must be undertaken.
90002423|In complex, modern food webs, the analysis of pairwise interactions gives weak predictions of the behaviour of either single species or the whole community. Indirect effects call for explicit study and quantification. However, just as focusing only on pairwise interactions is incorrect, overemphasising the role of long, indirect pathways also seems to be unrealistic. Thus, a reasonable range of indirect trophic effects spreading through the food web is to be defined and quantified. I suggest a graph theoretical measure for quantifying this range, considering only network position (topology). I call this the
90002567|The vegetation dynamics of semi-arid and arid landscapes are temporally and spatially heterogeneous and subject to various disturbance regimes that act on decadal scales. Traditional field-based monitoring methods have failed to sample adequately in time and space in order to capture this heterogeneity and thus lack the spatial extent and the long-term continuous time series of data necessary to detect anomalous dynamics in landscape behavior. Time series of ecological indicators of land degradation that are collected synoptically from local to global spatial scales can be derived from the 33-year and continuing Landsat satellite archive. Consequently, a retrospective study was conducted on a commercially grazed sagebrush steppe dominated Utah landscape using a time series of standardized Landsat imagery for the period 1972 to 1997. The study had the objectives to (1) characterize and map the historical trends of a remotely-sensed index of vegetation response, a correlate of vegetation cover or phytomass, and (2) to retrospectively infer the cause of this response to historical records of grazing and wet and drought periods. A time series of dry season vegetation index maps were statistically clustered to generate a spatio-temporal map of three coarse trends of vegetation response, i.e., declining, stable, and increasing trends. This study showed that 71% of the landscapes locations had an increasing trend and 29% had a stable trend over the 26-year period. The increasing trend locations were positively correlated with site water balance [the Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI)], i.e., vegetation response increased during wet periods and decreased during drought. The increasing trend was positively and negatively (non-linearly) correlated with grazing in individual paddocks from 1980 to 1997.
24113707|Small-scale vegetation patterns are frequently the results of plant-plant interactions such as facilitation and competition. Facilitation should be particularly pronounced when both abiotic and biotic stresses are high, but few studies were conducted in such habitats. In heavily-grazed pastures on the eastern Tibetan Plateau, an area with both high abiotic stress and strong biotic disturbance, we made relevs of herb species both beneath and outside canopies of three shrub species (Spiraea alpina, Sibiraea angustata and Potentilla fruticosa) differing in palatability and canopy structure. Herb species(S), richness pooled cover (PC) of all species, number of flowering species (FS) and number of inflorescences of all species (IN) were greater outside than beneath the shrub canopies. Evenness (J), in contrast, was smaller outside, while Shannon's diversity index (H) was the same. Differences in S and J between plots beneath and outside the shrub canopies were greater in the case of P. fruticosa than in the cases of S. angustata and S. alpina, but differences in PC, FS or IN did not depend on the shrub species. Among the common species (frequency 6), 47-85% were equally frequent beneath and outside the shrubs, 13-39% were more frequent outside and 3-13% were more frequent beneath the shrubs. For the rarest species (frequency < 6), however, more species occurred beneath than outside the shrubs. The ordination diagram showed a clear separation between the relevs outside and beneath the shrubs and a gradient from P. fruticosa via S. alpina to S. angustata, accompanied by a distinct decrease in the extent of the difference between the vegetation beneath and outside the shrub canopies. In conclusion, the three shrub species facilitated some species in the herb layer and each shrub species had a specific impact, related to its canopy structure and palatability but also to the grazing pressure, which was greater around the P. fruticosa shrubs than around S. alpina and S. angustata.
24113520|The effects of elevated atmospheric CO2 on in situ soil respiration and belowground biomass were studied in a FACE (Free Air CO2 Enrichment) facility. A Mediterranean grassland community was exposed to elevated and ambient CO2 concentrations in a mini-FACE system in Tuscany (Italy). We quantified litter mass and chemistry, root growth and turnover, CO2 efflux from soils, and soil microbial biomass. Elevated CO2 caused limited increases in aboveground production. Litter quality, fine root turnover, microbial biomass, root growth, and root biomass were not significantly affected by elevated CO2, except during some periods. Our results suggest that elevated atmospheric CO2 might moderately accelerate inputs of organic matter to soil carbon pools in Mediterranean grasslands, but it may also partially accelerate losses of carbon from belowground by stimulating soil respiration.
24113369|A multi-stage cluster sampling is proposed for quantifying and monitoring plant species richness at multiple spatial grains over large spatial extents. An unbiased estimator of average species richness at different grains and a conservative estimator of its sampling variance are obtained in a complete design-based framework, i.e., avoiding any assumption about the ecological community under study. An application to the Nature Reserve "Lago di Montepulciano" demonstrates that the proposed strategy may accomplish practical advantages and quite satisfactory levels of accuracy.
90002561|We address issues of investigations in plant ecology with a time span exceeding the range of ordinary research projects. According to the findings in the papers of this special issue of
24113552|This study profiled soils over a land degradation gradient to obtain formulae as integrative measures for describing the gradient as a result of deforestation in Thailand. We applied antibiotic resistance most-probable-number profiling to the soil bacterial communities, and then described the gradient. Soil samples were collected on the gradient represented by dry evergreen forest (the original vegetation), dry deciduous forest (moderately disturbed) and bare ground (the most degraded) in February (dry season), March (shortly after temporal precipitation) and June (rainy season) 2001. In the period of this study, the degradation was consistently shown as soil conditions like sandy texture, high bulk density, lower pH, high exchangeable acidity, poor mineral and organic nutrients and dryness. Soil fertility index and soil evaluation factor, as the integrative measures of the intensity of land degradation, were described by scores on the first or the second principal component derived from the soil bacterial community profiles for each sampling time (R>0.457, p<0.043) and by scores on the third and fourth principal components for the overall data set (R>0.501, p<0.001), suggesting great dry to moist seasonal effects. Further, the changes had significant relationships with gradients of soil moisture content, acidity and/or soil nitrogen content. The data sets on the soil bacterial community profiles had more complicated data structures than the physicochemical data sets, suggesting effects of the physicochemical changes on the soil bacterial community. The differences between the bacterial and the physicochemical aspects suggest that it is advantageous to observe multiple aspects of soil quality when describing a soil-related gradient of interest.
24113500|Even if the establishment of nature reserves is to date a reality and the increase of protected areas is going to grow year after year, monitoring programs aiming to assess the effectiveness of the established protected areas for biodiversity conservation are still needed. That is the case for the Natura 2000 network in Europe, for which monitoring methods and programs are not yet well-established. A probabilistic sampling procedure is proposed and tested for quantifying and monitoring plant species diversity within a local network of protected areas, namely the Natura 2000 network in the Siena Province, Italy. On the basis of a sampling strategy of one 100 m2 plot randomly located in each 1 km  1 km cell, four Sites of Community Importance (SCIs) were investigated in 2005. The gradients in species composition at the plot scale were largely related to elevation and forest cover. The species richness values of the four SCIs were compared by means of sample-based rarefaction curves. Then, additive partitioning of species richness was applied to determine the most important spatial components in determining the total species richness of the network. Compositional differences among the plots within each SCI were the most responsible of the total species richness. These methodologies can be adopted for assessing plant species richness within a large region or within a reserve network and, if combined with additive partitioning, they can be used as a set of large scale indicators of species diversity.
24113542|Nestedness is a pattern whereby species-poor assemblages are composed of subsets of the species occurring in richer assemblages. One of the most commonly used measures of the degree of nestedness for presence-absence matrices is the 'discrepancy' metric. A hitherto neglected property of that metric is that it may take several values for a given site-by-species matrix in the presence of ties in the marginal totals. This complicates the quantification of nestedness for the observed presence-absence matrix, as well as the assessment of statistical significance, which is typically achieved through Monte Carlo simulations. A solution to the problem is to calculate the minimum discrepancy using a modified algorithm involving permutations of columns with tied totals.
24113398|Changes in the trophic structure of communities are good indicators of ecosystem stress or environmental change. Here, we compare the sink webs of two bird species (great tit, Parus major, and European blackbird, Turdus merula) in two habitats (a forest and an orchard), in order to detect the differences in their trophic status. The webs are functionally aggregated in three steps, based on energetics. Our main conclusion is that tits are less sensitive to habitat change from the natural to the agricultural.
90002505|We present a new method to asses the strength of indirect interactions and to indentify candidate keystone species in quantitative food webs. We apply this method to the structural analysis of a host-parasitoid community. The strength and symmetry of indirect interactions between 12 leaf-miner hosts and their 27 hymenopteran parasitoids are quantified. It is shown that (1) quantifying longer pathways helps in determining which species have more important direct or indirect effects on others. (2) a keystone pattern of relative species importance, based on positionality in the interaction network, seems to characterize this community. (3) considering longer pathways results in a characteristic few strong - many weak distribution of interaction strength, and (4) between the majority of species pairs the interaction is weakly asymmetrical. We emphasise that a very simple network algebra approach may offer important predictions on both species- and community-level patterns.
24113456|The question whether and to what degree urbanization causes a decrease in diversity of animal and plant species and changes in community structure is still a matter of debate. While many studies used ground beetles, vertebrates, and butterflies as assumed model taxa, little work has been done with other, particularly insect, taxa. Here we report on rural and urban diversities of communities of carcass visiting destruent and predatory beetles (Coleoptera). From 8 rural and 2 city sites, we sampled 15323 destruent beetles representing 58 species and 1871 predators from 43 species. We observed a reduced diversity and changes in community structure of both beetle guilds towards the city. However, these changes were guild specific and our study gives no evidence that there are simple rules that govern rural and urban patterns of diversity. Species abundance distributions did not significantly differ between the study sites. There is also no evidence that the intermediate disturbance hypothesis might apply. Lastly, we found only little support for a homogenizing effect of urban environments on carrion visiting beetles.
90002356|We used space-for-time substitution to obtain a directed successional sequence for subalpine meadow vegetation in the Swiss National Park. Since human impacts (e.g., domestic animal grazing) ceased in 1914. the successional processes documented are assumed to be autogenic in nature. The data consist of 59 permanent plots spanning almost 90 years, and include many spatial replications. An initial inspection of the individual time series revealed the existence of a variety of response patterns, which are described in the literature as representing different successional types. However. a closer inspection suggested that many of these series can be superimposed, as they are part of a much longer deterministic series. Linking the individual time series proved to be challenging. A heuristic approach produced results that differed depending on initial starting conditions. We therefore derived a deterministic algorithm to produce a unique solution. The resulting sequence largely confirmed the heuristic interpretation, suggesting a trend from early successional (post-grazing) grassland to pine invasion spanning about 400 years. This timespan is valid only for the climatic conditions near the treeline. and for plant species specific to the study site. Our results suggest that the various species temporal response models described in the literature may be artifactual. representing portions of underlying Gaussian responses. The data also indicate that species assemblages may persist for several decades with only minor fluctuations, only to change suddenly for no apparent reason.
90002358|Correspondence analysis has found widespread application in analysing vegetation gradients. However, it is not clear how it is robust to situations where structures other than a simple gradient exist. The introduction of instrumental variables in canonical correspondence analysis does not avoid these difficulties. In this paper I propose to examine some simple methods based on the notion of the plexus (
24113524|The relationship between the soil seed bank at the onset of the growing season and the structure of the ensuing vegetation under grazing was investigated in an eastern Mediterranean grassland. Species responses to two contrasting cattle grazing regimes were studied through plant trait analyses. Traits included plant size, phenology, seed size and germination fraction. Changes in species composition of the soil seed bank and the vegetation were analyzed using a plant functional group approach. The results showed that seed bank and relative cover of tall annual and perennial grasses increased when grazed late in the growing season. The opposite was noted for short annual grasses, annual legumes, annual thistles, annual crucifers and other annual forbs. Grazing treatments little affected plant cover of herbaceous perennials. Tall annual and tall perennial grasses have large seeds and germination rates over 90%. Short annual grasses showed similarly high germination rates but with smaller seeds. Annual legumes were characterized by medium size seeds and lower germination fractions (<50%). Tall annual grasses showed high competition capabilities at late grazed paddocks due to a combination of regeneration traits that included: high germination fraction, larger seed and seedling size, and inflorescence with morphological defenses. It is proposed that in addition to plant size and palatability, regeneration traits such as seed dormancy, seed and seedling size play an important role in determining the vegetation structure under different grazing regimes, thus contributing to the high plant species diversity characteristic to Mediterranean grasslands.
24113340|Several managed native forest stands have been reforested with conifer trees in Europe during recent centuries. These habitat alterations have influenced ground-dwelling invertebrates. We studied carabid beetle assemblages from a native beech forest (70-y-old), and a recently established (5-y-old), a young ( 15-y-old), a middle-aged (30-y-old) and a mature (50-y-old) Norway spruce plantation by pitfall trapping to explore the effect of reforestation on carabid beetles. The total number of carabid species, and the forest species were highest in the beech forest. The number of open-habitat species was highest in the youngest, relatively open monoculture. Ordination also confirmed changes in carabid composition with change in the studied habitats. Newly proposed forest affinity indices, based on species specificity, fidelity, and on a combination of specificity and fidelity were significantly higher in beech forest than in spruce plantations. We found these affinity indices especially useful in revealing the ecological character of the studied carabid assemblages. Regression analyses showed that leaf litter cover, herbs, shrubs, canopy closure and prey abundance were related to the structure of carabid-beetle assemblages.
24113522|Plant biomass production, soil chemical and microbial parameters, microbial processes of C and N cycle and gases emissions were studied in soils at two types of grasslands (wet meadows). Both sites are situated in the Czech Republic: (1) a nutrient poor sedge meadow on organic soil (Z) and (2) a mesotrophic sedge-sweet grass meadow on mineral soil (H). Eutrophication was simulated by the application of NPK fertilizer to selected permanent plots in 2006 and 2007 in amounts of 9 kg N + 4 kg P ha-1 year-1 (low dose) and 45 kg N + 20 kg P ha-1 year-1 (high dose). After two years of fertilizer application, we observed an increase in net aboveground plant production (about 9-12 kg ha-1 year-1) connected with an increase in shoot:root ratio in fertilized plots of both sites, with more pronounced changes in oligotrophic sedge meadow. Total CO2 efflux from the ecosystem measured in situ was significantly higher at fertilized plots as well as increase in total soil respiration in case of sedge meadow, but we found no significant effect of fertilization on CO2 efflux from the system at mesotrophic site. Suiprisingly, other parameters, like soil microbial biomass C and N content, the rates of respiration, denitrification, nitrification, nitrogen mineralization and nitrogen assimilation were not affected by fertilization. In conclusion, an interesting finding is that despite non significant impact on aboveground component there were significant responses in belowground part which suggest that belowground processes may be suitable early warning signals. Peaty oligotrophic soil seems to be more sensitive to nutrient addition than mineral soil. However, final effect of fertilization on ecosystem C balance stays unknown and longer study is necessary to draw explicit conclusion.
90002610|We studied biomass and species composition changes of open perennial sand grassland (
90002486|Probabilistic classification offers various advantages in its application to vegetation studies: it can use data in the form of ordered as well as quantitative values; it can use a range of values for each attribute (species) in each relev or group of relevs: it can use incomplete data sets: it takes account of all species, rather than only characteristic species: and it enables a null hypothesis of random distribution of species among relevs to be tested.
90002573|The on-going Biodiversity Monitoring in Switzerland Programme (BDM) has monitored vascular-plant species richness since 2001. This long-term programme focuses on two indicators at different spatial scales. First, the local diversity indicator monitors changes of species richness within habitats or types of land use (within-habitat diversity). Second, the landscape diversity indicator is utilized to describe landscape diversity (i.e., within-habitat mosaic diversity). Here we examine if the reproducibility of the BDM methods is sufficiently precise to detect future changes in species richness. We demonstrate that systematic methodical errors are negligible. Random errors that make changes more difficult to detect are also small. We calculate the Minimum Detectable Difference (MDD) for selected BDM strata using the variance of measured values. Then we deduce the MDD values for paired samples using data from grasslands and forests in the Canton Argovia. With 2.4 and 1.6 species they are promisingly precise. We develop a simple scenario for possible changes in species richness and show that they surpass the deduced MDD values by a factor four to six. We conclude that the BDM methods are appropriate for detecting future changes in species richness.
90004016|The species composition of the seed bank and aboveground vegetation of an old field was compared to a reference grassland stand. The relative importance of dispersal and recruitment as limiting factors was analysed, and measures for appropriate restoration are proposed. Grassland species were able to re-establish in the old field soon after abandonment of cultivation, with
24113531|Monoliths of temperate loess grassland and temperate semi-desert sand grassland have been exposed to elevated CO2 (700 mol mol-1) and present ambient CO2 concentration in a 6-year open top chamber (OTC) experiment. In loess grassland elevated CO2 increased both biomass and vegetation cover, whereas there was no similar effect found in semi-desert grassland. The content of glomalin related soil protein (GRSP) increased in both loess and sand grasslands under CO2 enrichment (early summer aspect). The increase was higher in the case of easily extractable fraction (EEG), representing 14.7 and 22.2% of the chambered control's EEG, for loess and sand grassland respectively. In the case of total glomalin the increase was much lower 7.9% (loess) and 2.6% (sand). On the basis of differences between elevated and ambient CO2 treatment we could conclude that elevated CO2 promoted C-deposition in xeric temperate grassland in early summer. Increases of EEG indicate an efficient partitioning of the recently fixed carbon to the soil.
24113677|We investigate the modifications of soil factors in Carpobrotus invaded sites by evaluating differences between non-invaded and highly invaded plots in three habitats of coastal dune ecosystems in Central Italy. Nitrogen content, organic matter content, pH and salinity were measured in three coastal habitats: shifting dunes along the shoreline with Ammophila arenaria, Crucianellion maritimae fixed beach dunes and fixed coastal dunes with Juniperus spp. Soil variables of the invaded plots were compared to non-invaded ones using two-way factorial ANOVAs and post-hoc Tukey HSD tests. We found significant differences between invaded and non-invaded plots for nitrogen content, organic matter content and pH in both foredune habitats. On the other hand, no differences were revealed on fixed dunes. Thus, we found distinct responses of soil factors to Carpobrotus invasion depending on the habitat. Pioneer habitats with very poor soils are more sensitive to invasion probably because the production of litter by Carpobrotus is considerably higher than for native species. Therefore, for the establishment of efficient alien control programs of those habitats of conservation interest, it is imperative to take into account the relationship between invasive species presence and the top soil characteristics. For instance, particular attention is required in the foredune zone (pioneer habitats), where Carpobrotus invasion is more likely to affect the parameters of the soil.
24113546|An assemblage of moth species at a suburb of Prague (505'H"N,1418'06"E) was monitored by a highly efficient mercury light trap for 23 years (1967-1976, 1980-1992). Species caught were divided into guilds according to habitat specialisation, and analysed using species richness S, Shannon's diversity H and evenness J as the response variables, and the individual years of monitoring and effects of mean annual temperature and precipitation as the explanatory variables. Overall, 424 species were recorded: 25 early successional arable land species (43% of all caught individuals), 116 forest species feeding on trees and shrubs, 33 forest species feeding on woodland herbs and lichens, 92 forest-steppe species, 116 grassland species, 28 wetland species, and 14 non-specialized generalists. The diversity of habitat-specialised species responded mainly to land use changes, whereas the diversity of generalists reflected long-term meteorological trends. Species richness of specialists whose habitats in the vicinity of the trap have declined in extent decreased, the numbers of those whose habitats remained intact did not exhibit any particular trend, whereas the numbers of generalists increased, and their diversity positively responded to warming. It is concluded that the habitat specialists and generalists react to environmental changes differently. Non-specialised species appear more sensitive indicators of climate changes than habitat specialists because for the latter the indication of climate changes can be overlaid by changes in habitat use.
90002620|The process of biological invasions is necessary to understand to prevent future invasions and their negative impacts. Ecological theory and empirical work can provide a framework for approaching the process. Extrinsic factors, such as disturbances, can increase the probability of a successful invasion through several mechanisms. Disturbances may decrease native species abundances, decrease species diversity, or change community composition. We conducted a microcosm experiment using a container protozoan and rotifer community to examine how disturbances and the timing of the invasion affected the probability of invasion success. Native species richness significantly decreased with disturbance presence, but total native abundance was not affected. Invader abundance and richness significantly increased with increasing disturbance. Invasion timing had no effect on invasion success, implying that changes in native abundance or biomass did not facilitate or prevent invasions. Several native species that dominated post-disturbance communities had lower abundance levels in no-disturbance and invasion treatments, indicating that species in this community may have exhibited trade-offs between competitive ability and disturbance tolerance. These results suggest that changes in species richness and composition are most important in facilitating invasions, and this may be the result of increased vulnerability to invasion in a post-disturbance community dominated by poor competitors. Understanding how species invasions are facilitated by community characteristics can provide further insight to identifying when communities are most vulnerable and how to prevent invasions.
24113364|The montane (shola) grasslands of Western Ghats, South India are a component of a landscape mosaic including the better-studied shola forests. The conservation of the grasslands depends upon understanding their ecology. This review compiles available information and aims to evaluate the conservation potential of these grasslands. Most studies on these grasslands are descriptive in nature. There is little information regarding habitat heterogeneity, landscape configuration, natural disturbance, grazing and productivity in maintaining the grasslands. Succession is poorly understood because of the short-term nature of most studies. Human activities have historically influenced these grasslands and will continue to do so in more intensive manner. Threats to these grasslands include habitat loss, fragmentation, fires, and invasive species.
90002413|The favoured state approach
24113528|The saline area of the Kiskunsg region of Hungary has varied micro-topographic conditions with different plant communities. This study was performed in a dry sandy grassland community (Potentillo arenariae-Festucetum pseudovinae So (1938) 1940) and a neighbouring saline sandy grassland community (Lepidio crassifolii-Puccinellietum limosae So (1947) 1957). These are located at different elevations and have completely different floristic composition and physiognomy due to the soil characteristics and water availability. We assessed how the different environmental conditions during summer period might alter some physiological traits of two dominant xerophytes of sandy grassland (Achillea collina L., Festuca pseudovina Hack. ex Wiesb.) and two halophytes of saline grassland (Lepidium crassifolium (W. et K.), Puccinellia limosa (Schur) Holmbg.). The relationship between soil water potential and water content showed lower water availability for plants in the saline habitat as the high water soluble sodium content (900-2000 ppm) of this soil type limits water absorption. Both halophyte species in this study exhibited lower K/Na ratio than xerophyte species. Between the two halophytes L. crassifolium can be described as a "leaf/shoot sodium accumulator" species while P. limosa as a "leaf sodium avoider" species. The four species differed in proline accumulation. The salt adapted species had multifold accumulation of proline as compared to species of dry sandy grassland. The three microhabitats differing in total plant cover offered different microenvironmental conditions for L. crassifolium. Proline content was twice higher in leaves of this species in the microhabitats with high soil Na+ content than in the closed microhabitat. Every species showed a transient reversible decrease of potential photochemical efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm) at midday during the study period. In the saline habitat the midday depression of Fv/Fm for L. crassifolium was much larger than in case of P. limosa which reflected its higher susceptibility to photoinhibition. In sandy grassland Fv/Fm of A. collina was smaller than that of F. pseudovina. Mesophyll succulence index (Sm) expressing the ratio of water content to chlorophyll content was the highest in L. crassifolium (1.6-2.2 g H2O mg-1 Chl). Sm was low in xerophyte species (0.5-1.1 g H2O mg-1 Chl), and the lowest value was found for the F. pseudovina (0.54 g H2O mg-1 Chl).
24113632|In the last decades, many works investigated the trophic structure of communities stressing, in particular, the role played by species in food webs (e.g., their trophic level and, more recently, their centrality). There exist some encouraging applications, but few details are known about the relationships between centrality measurements and trophic levels. In addition, these studies almost refer to unweighted trophic networks, despite the acknowledged need of investigating weighted webs. Here we aim to contribute to the synthetic treatment of these complementary issues by analyzing several indices of centrality and trophic level. Studying 19 ecosystems, we ranked the nodes according to their positional importance values (based on various centrality indices) and we compared the rank order of coefficients with unweighted or weighted trophic levels. Our goal was revealing potential biases in finding high centrality nodes among basal, intermediate and top species. We found that key species occupy intermediate positions of the trophic hierarchy. In case of unweighted data, trophic levels of key nodes do not deviate from trends displayed by the whole dataset. Significant differences were observed when using weighted data. These results contradict the common belief of many ecologists that identified top-predators and charismatic megafauna as main targets of conservation policies. We discuss the potential consequences of the observed features on ecosystem dynamics.
24113515|Changes in grassland flora and vegetation caused by inadequate management, primarily under-grazing and grasslands abandonment were studied in the south-east region of Serbia  Mt. Stara Planina, the largest mountain massif of the country. This mountain is one of the major centres of tertiary and endemic-relict plant species that remains in ravines, and glacial relics and mountain endemic species. The paper presents an analysis and comparison of previous (about 30 years ago) and current biodiversity of the most common grasslands, such as: ass. Festuco-Agrostietum vulgaris, Agrostio-Asphodeletum albae, Koelerietum montanae, Agrostietum vulgaris, Festucetum spadiceae, Nardetum strictae, Poetum molinerii-Plantaginetum carinatae, Poetum violaceae and Seslerietum coerulantis. Both environmental and human impacts on grassland vegetation were discussed and a proposal of sustainable grassland use and management is given.
24113644|Recent environmental and land use changes have made wildfires more frequent in natural habitats of the Kiskunsg Sand Ridge on the Hungarian Plain. In a study initiated 2.5 years after an extensive fire that destroyed half of the area of a sand grassland  juniper, poplar forest steppe habitat, we assessed the effects of fire on two generalist arthropod groups: spiders and carabid beetles, as well as on the vegetation. Utilizing the natural experiment situation, samples were taken by pitfalls and suction sampling during a 1.5 years period in four 1 ha blocks, two of which were on the burnt part of the habitat, and two in the unburnt control. At the time of the investigation, in the burnt area the vegetation in the grass layer showed a quick but not complete recovery, while the canopy layer of the juniper bushes burnt down with no sign of regeneration. Carabid beetles and spiders showed differences in recovery after fire. In the carabid assemblages of the burnt parts  compared to the unburnt control  there were over three times more beetles, out of which significantly more represented the macropterous life form and granivorous feeding strategy. There was a higher ratio of pioneer species and a simplified assemblage structure in the burnt area, which meant that the conservation value of the carabid assemblage became lower there. In contrast, for the spider assemblage quantitative changes in abundance and species numbers were not significant, and the differences in species composition did not lead to a decrease in conservation value. Spider species in the burnt plots could not be described as pioneer species, rather they had ecological characteristics that suited the changed vegetation structure. Comparing the two groups, to repopulate the burnt areas, dispersal abilities proved to be more limiting for carabids. However, in both groups a strong assemblage level adaptation could be observed to the postfire conditions. In spiders, species with a stratum preference for the grass layer prevailed, while in carabids individuals with granivore strategy gained dominance. Thus, despite the differences in their speed, basically both assemblages tracked vegetation changes. The effect of future fires will depend on their scale, as well as land-use practices, such as grazing, that interact with fire frequency and recovery. If extensive fires in the future permanently change the vegetation, then it would also lead to a fundamental change in the arthropod fauna.
90002420|For the investigation of diversity-productivity relationships under natural conditions, we present an operationally feasible measurement scheme explicitly considering the spatial organization of vegetation. We hypothesised that the spatial arrangement of the coexistence of species influences patch-level productivity. To characterise diversity, co-occurrences of species were recorded along oval transects allowing scaling by aggregation between 5 cm and 25 m. Productivity was characterised by field radiometric measurements, calibrated for leaf area and biomass, arranged in a sampling scheme scalable between 20 cm and 50 m. All data were collected along a slight resource gradient in the
90002361|A method for studying the response of vegetation to environmental gradients, based on the community niche and fuzzy set theory, is presented. The approach is illustrated using an example from perennial halophilous vegetation along the Northern Adriatic coast of Italy. Compatibility curves are obtained by fuzzy set theoretical methods, and are used to model the response functions ofplant associations to environmental gradients, including soil and ground water salinity, soil pH, soil and ground water temperature, percentage of sand, and variations in the ground water level. The compatibility curves summarize the similarity of a given plant community, with a particular value of an environmental variable, to the species combination of a given plant association. Compatibility curves offer an alternative approach to non-linear regression and best fit analyses normally used to model single species responses to environmental gradients. The approach is particularly useful given there is no single mechanistic model that can capture the exact shape of the functional response along environmental gradients, and given that environmental data are commonly affected by high levels of noise.
90002501|A detailed analysis of the relationship between woody types and environmental variables (pedological and topographical) was carried out inside the city of Rome. Twenty-three sample sites 100 m
90002504|For Lotka-Volterra population systems, a general model of
24113656|In an area disturbed by long-term extraction of ores of non-ferrous metals as well as by their preparation and processing, unexplained effects of heavy metals (Mn, Zn, Cu, Pb, Cd) of different soil concentrations and various degrees of vegetation cover on the species diversity and abundance of ground beetles habitat specialists and generalists in heavily changed forest ecosystems were monitored so far. We found that in environments characterized by extreme concentrations of heavy metals some forest specialists may prefer poorly wooded sites to fully wooded sites in an effort to avoid contaminated environment. Nevertheless, the majority of species remain good site indicators even under these conditions. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that all monitored variables had more or less significant effects on the spatial activity of ground beetles at the species level. Vegetation cover differentiating the species spectrum into forest and open habitat specialists proved to be a decisive factor. The analysis also revealed that forest specialists and generalists were, in addition to cover, associated with Mn concentrations and, on the contrary, responded negatively to the presence of Cu, Pb, Cd, Zn and high pH values. Open-habitat specialists were associated reversely.
90002362|Different sampling strategies are simulated by changing quadrat size, quadrat shape, sample size and the arrangement of quadrats in a tropical rain forest of Hainan (South China). The simulation uses enumeration data of trees, and derived variables such as species richness, species importance, and species population density, to compare the efficiency of the sampling. The results verify that greater sampling efficiency is to be expected using systematic sampling than random sampling. Quadrat size has substantial influence on parameter estimation, but quadrat shape has negligible effect except when the quadrat is extremely long and narrow.
24113597|We investigated the neighbourhood-scale effect of weeding on native plants in Lance McCaskill Nature Reserve, Canterbury, New Zealand. The reserve is an unproductive basin of limestone debris. Originally set up to protect the Castle Hill buttercup, Ranunculus crithmifolius var. paucifolius, the reserve also offers protection for nationally endangered species: Myosotis colensoi and Lepidium sisymbrioides. Our aim was to investigate whether removal of introduced plants increased the cover of remaining native species. We removed introduced plants, by hand, every year for 6 years from half of the plots. We used nonparametric multivariate analysis to compare overall species cover. The results suggest that weeding does benefit the native plants in this area. There was a significant difference in the mean of the overall native species cover between the weeded and the non-weeded plots. For the ten species measured, the mean area covered per square metre was higher in the weeded plots than in the non-weeded plots in most years of the study. There was considerable variation in the data and we discuss possible reasons for this.
24113368|Interactions between grassland ecosystems and vertebrate herbivores are critical for a better understanding of ecosystem processes, but diverge widely in different ecosystems. In this study, we examined plant responses to simulated red deer (Cervus elaphus L.) grazing using clip-plot experiments in a subalpine grassland ecosystem of the Central European Alps. We measured aboveground net primary production (ANPP) and phosphorus (P) concentration of leaf tissue from plants of two vegetation types with different grazing history. The experimental plots were placed on a soil-P gradient and subject to two different clipping treatments, which simulated moderate and heavy grazing, respectively. We found distinct differences in the response of both ANPP and P concentration in leaf tissues in the two vegetation types. Compared to moderate, heavy grazing simulation did not affect ANPP in the vegetation type adapted to grazing, but decreased ANPP in the non-grazing adapted vegetation type. High soil-P levels also had different effects on the response of the vegetation to clipping in the two vegetation types with different grazing history. ANPP correlated positively with soil-P in non-grazing adapted tall-grass vegetation, while in grazing adapted short-grass vegetation a positive relationship between soil-P and the P concentration in leaf tissues was found. Our experiments provide data for a better understanding of ecosystem processes in high-elevation grasslands of the Alps with possible implications for both nature conservation purposes in protected areas and the management of agriculturally used grasslands.
24113344|Giant hogweed (Heracleum mantegazzianum), a weed originating from the Caucasus and invasive in Western Europe, is frequently observed with myrmecophilic aphids, ants, and non-myrmecophilic aphids. The number of individuals of the two non-myrmecophilic, leaf-sucking aphid species, Paramyzus heraclei and Cavariella theobaldi, are negatively correlated with the growth of giant hogweed in its native habitat. A cavity at the stem basis of giant hogweed, the domatium, lodges colonies of the obligate myrmecophilic, stem-sucking aphid Anuraphis subterranea. We found a positive correlation between relative plant growth, ant activity, and the number of myrmecophilic aphids. Because of the domatium size, A. subterranea populations are limited in growth and consequently the damage they inflict is limited. In contrast to the few other systems where three-partner mutualistic relationships are described, these partners appear to be more adapted to each other. This is the first report of an ant domatium from the temperate zone, and it is moreover the first experimental result presenting a system, from which a secondary domatium is able to evolve, because it is involving initial relations with aphids.
24113603|The abundance of terrestrial isopods (Isopoda: Oniscidea) was evaluated along an urban-suburban-rural gradient. We tested two hypotheses regarding the response of species: (i) habitat specialist hypothesis, according to which the abundance of the forest specialists would increase, while the abundance of the urban environment specialist isopods would decrease along the urban-rural gradient, and (ii) opportunistic species hypothesis (abundance of the generalist species would increase by increasing level of urbanization). The abundance of the forest specialist isopod Trachelipus ratzeburgii increased significantly along the studied gradient. An opposite tendency was observed for the abundance of the urban environment specialist isopod Porcellio scaber, as it was significantly higher in the urban area than in the suburban and rural sites. One generalist species (Trachelipus rathkii) gained dominance in the urban area, while other two generalists (Armadillidium vulgare and Porcellium collicola) showed no significant changes in abundance along the gradient.
90002409|Macroscopic ecosystem studies often complete our knowledge based on population-level experiments and models. In this paper, the changed control of ecosystem functioning is reported by analyzing the structure of the energy flow network of a tidal marsh community (Crystal River, Florida). The positional importance of trophic components is characterized by a graph theoretical approach. Then, positional importance of points is compared to the magnitude of fitting carbon flows (i.e., the importance of links) and the congruency is expressed in percents. These results are presented for both an unperturbed (control) and a thermally stressed creek ecosystem of the river. The comparison of average congruency values for the two communities suggests that, first, trophic control may be stronger in the stressed community and, second, the reliability of carbon flows is also higher in the stressed ecosystem.
90002469|We study the structure of two contrasting alpine forestpasture ecotones located in the Central Pyrenees (sites Ordesa and Tess). We define ecotone structure as the spatial distribution of trees of different size classes and growth-forms, and the relationship between these aspects and the spatial distribution of understory vegetation and substrate. The studied ecotones are dominated by
90002598|A discrete mathematical method, based on the Jak Iterative Canonical Forms (ICF) of Boolean functions is proposed for the analysis of species combinations and the detection of characteristic areas in plant communities. Information on species combinations (or florulas) appearing in a sample is expressed in compact form to reveal fundamental properties of community pattern. The new method provides a complementary tool for the florula diversity approach: whereas florula diversity is indicative of the frequency distribution of species combinations regardless their interrelationships, the new procedure detects complexity in the abstract structure of species combinations. Graph-theoretical representations of the ICF promote understanding the new method and visualizing its results. A cellular automata model and field data provide illustrative examples.
90002618|The study site is the Honghe National Nature Reserve, a Ramsar designated site on the Sanjiang Plain in Northeast China. We present results regarding the spatial pattern and structure of plant communities in these most important natural but continually diminishing freshwater wetlands of China to help promote both protection and restoration. By investigating three ecological levels (landscape, ecosystem and community), this paper quantifies the characteristics of spatial pattern with the aim to identify specific ecological correlations with different hydro-geomorphic features. Specifically, the research involves hierarchical mapping of vegetation types by use of remote sensed data, and the coupling of landscape indices with fluvial topographic zones that have been deduced by GIS from DEM. Statistics from historical survey data are also used to measure the degradation of marshes as well as the historical change of the hydrological regime. We found that dominant is the
24113672|The vegetation in the southern Brazilian highlands is characterized by Araucaria forest and Campos grassland. Evidences indicate that Araucaria forest is currently expanding over grassland and that this expansion may occur by nucleation or edge dynamics. Nucleation mechanisms of Araucaria forest expansion are well documented, whereas mechanisms of expansion starting from the forest edge are not. In this study, we aimed (1) to assess how prominent is Araucaria forest expansion over Campos grassland starting from the forest edge, and (2) to discuss about the possible mechanisms underlying sapling community colonization in grassland. We conducted our sampling in 11 transects disposed from the forest edge towards the grassland. The transects were distributed in four study sites. Each transect was 50 m long and was divided into 25 plots with area of 8 m 2 . All forest woody sapling individuals were identified and registered. We considered distance from forest edge, presence of dead shrubs, Baccharis uncinella cover, nurse tree cover and rock cover as predictors of forest plant abundance and composition. Niche and distance contribution on the explanation of sapling composition and abundance were partitioned using, respectively, canonical correspondence analysis and multiple regressions. Cover of nurse trees explained almost 31% of total variation in sapling abundance, followed by the distance from the forest edge that explained 6.9%. Site explained 7.6% of total variation in sapling species composition, followed by distance from the forest edge, which explained 2.3%, whereas niche had a minor (2.1%) and non-significant proportion of variation explanation. Our findings show that Araucaria forest expansion over native grasslands in southern Brazil relies deeply on the nurse plant effect. Previous studies have demonstrated that Araucaria forest forms nuclei scattered in the grassland where nurse plants or nurse rocks are established. Here, we bring evidences that nurse plants are important also to the tree encroachment starting closer to the forest edge. This study provides new information on the mechanisms involved in the forest expansion over native grasslands.
24113537|The ability of macroecological approaches to identify the mechanisms that underlie spatial patterns in species richness has been heavily debated in part because of continued attention to the role of scale-dependence in the mechanisms regulating biodiversity. Here we show that species abundance is a scale-independent predictor of species richness for riverine fish. We modelled local species richness of riverine fish in 976 rivers in the continental United States and used this parameterized local model to predict regional species richness at increasingly coarser scales that were defined according to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Ecoregion classes (Ecoregion III: fine scale, Ecoregion II: medium scale, and Ecoregion I: coarse scale). We found that the locally parameterized model predicted species richness most accurately at the coarsest scale, explaining 80% of the variability in total species richness. An inverse set of models, which used the coarsest scale data to parameterize models tested at finer scales, showed that 38% of the variability in local species richness was explained by the coarse scale model. Total abundance was the single most important predictor of species richness across all scales with a slope ranging from 0.4-0.56 on a log-log plot. Although the specific mechanisms linking total species richness and energetic constraints may be scale-dependent, total abundance may be a scale-independent predictor of the total number of species that can be supported in a given area.
90002473|Past inability to come to a consensus about the degree of functional redundancy in ecosystems may be due, in part, to different definitions of ecosystem function and different investigative methodologies. Here I define ecosystem function, using the largely plant-based functions of aboveground productivity and decomposition of 10 common early successional trees found in Puerto Rico, and then use two different multivariate techniques to define functional groups. I found that: (1) multivariate statistical methods worked well to sort out the test species on axes defined primarily by productivity, which may have more redundancy than decomposition, and initial leaf nutrient content, (2) there were four plant functional groups defined by species (i)
90002617|Community composition may be determined by a variety of factors, including habitat dimension, abiotic conditions, and biotic interactions. Habitat dimensions may influence abiotic conditions, thus modifying community structure or biotic interactions. We used six different mesocosm sizes, two depths crossed with three surface areas, to test hypotheses regarding the direct and indirect effects of habitat dimensions (depth and surface area) on dissolved oxygen concentration and insect communities in artificial water-filled treeholes. Containers were monitored for dissolved oxygen concentrations and insect community composition from June 2002 to November 2003. We predicted that deep mesocosms would have lower species richness and insect larval densities than shallow due to less dissolved oxygen at deeper depths, and that large surface area mesocosms would have greater species richness and abundance of insects than small. Larger surface area habitats may attract more insects because they are easier to find and perceived by ovipositing females to be more stable. Dissolved oxygen concentrations ([DO]) at depth were consistently lower in deep than shallow habitats, and mosquito densities and species richness were lower in those deep mesocosms compared to shallow mesocosms. We found higher insect richness at certain times of the year in large and medium than in small surface area mesocosms. By modifying abiotic factors such as [DO], dimensional aspects of the habitat, in this case depth, may affect community structure in ways not predicted simply by habitat size.
90002487|We offer a new framework for cellular automata modeling to describe and predict vegetation dynamics. The model can simulate community composition and spatial patterns by following a set of probabilistic rules generated from empirical data on plant neighborhood dynamics. Based on published data (Lippe et al. 1985), we apply the model to simulate Atlantic Heathland vegetation dynamics and compare the outcome with previous models described for the same site. Our results indicate reasonable agreement between simulated and real data and with previousmodels based on Markov chains or on mechanistic spatial simulation, and that spatial models may detect similar species dynamics given by non-spatial models. We found evidence that a directional vegetation dynamics may not correspond to a monotonic increase in community spatial organization. The model framework may as well be applied to other systems.
90002412|The relationship between species diversity and ecosystem functions has generated considerable debate among ecologists. Ecosystem functions (e.g. productivity, nutrient retention) are often positively correlated with species richness in experimental plant assemblages, but little or no correlation exists in natural communities. We examined the effects of species richness on productivity and available soil nitrate by experimentally manipulating richness using random draws from a pool of ten perennial grasses. Species richness had no significant effect on aboveground productivity or soil nitrate availability, suggesting that functional diversity may be more important than species richness in determining ecosystem functions. The relationship between diversity and ecosystem functions may also depend on resource limitation. A positive relationship is expected when below-ground resources are limiting, but the relationship is expected to weaken when below-ground resource supply rates are higher and competition for light becomes more important. Further experiments are required to determine the mechanisms underlying diversity-productivity relationships.
90002554|We examine literature on flooding as a disturbance on both sessile and mobile organisms. The limitations and assumptions of the Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis (IDH) are identified and examined. We conclude that research on plants supports the IDH. In contrast, mobile invertebrates and vertebrates rarely support the hypothesis. Therefore, we strongly encourage investigators to consider explanations beyond the IDH when explaining community dynamics following floods.
24113514|Decreasing diversity and plant cover, as well as increasing variability of these characteristics with increasing aridity are expected in grasslands due to climate change. These predictions were tested in perennial sand grasslands in Hungary. Two sites were chosen in different positions on an aridity gradient and two stands in each site were monitored for 9 years. Presence of plant species were recorded along 52 m long circular belt transects of 1040 units of 5 cm x 5 cm contiguous microquadrats. This sampling procedure  a version of line-intercept methods  enabled us to monitor diversity and total abundance in a sensitive, precise and non-destructive way. We found no trend but fluctuation in most community level attributes and in species composition. Contrary to fluctuations, between-site differences in diversity did not change and diversity remained lower in the more arid site during our 9-year-study. Compositional diversity performed better than species diversity because allowed us to detect vegetation changes that would have remained hidden if monitoring would be based only on the species richness. Comparing the magnitudes of fluctuations, five times higher relative interannual variability (CV%) was found for compositional diversity at the more arid site, while the relative temporal variability of total abundance and species richness did not show consistent patterns. We conclude that a 9 year-long study was too short to identify trends caused by the changing climate. However, the larger temporal variability of species combinations found in the more arid site suggests larger vulnerability and highlights the importance of non-linear dynamics during climate changes.
24113565|A dense bamboo undergowth and thick layer of its slowely decaying litter belong to the main factors inhibiting the establishment of woody species in forest stands of northern Japan. The successful regeneration often hinges on bamboo dieback after mass flowering or small-scale disturbances that remove the understory cover and create open sites suitable for seed germination and growth. We conducted a field experiment with repeated observations of emergence and survival of tree seedlings in undisturbed Sasa senanertsis understory and experimental gaps simulating different disturbance events to determine mechanisms of bamboo interference with tree seedling regeneration. The experiments were repeated in four sites to test if seedling emergence was related to differences in site overstory composition and thus to differential seed input. Very few seedlings germinated under the Sasa layer and also few seedlings emerged in microsites where the Sasa above-ground biomass was removed but litter left intact. Only severe disturbance that exposed soil led to a significant increase in the number of seedlings. Smaller-seeded species with longer-distance seed dispersal such as Betula spp. and Abies sachalinensis were generally more abundant than larger-seeded species such as Quercus mongolica and Acer mono. The mechanism by which Sasa cover reduced seedling emergence was not uniform among tree species: emergence of smaller-seeded species  Betula spp, Abies sachalinensis and Picea glehnii  is reduced primarily by low levels of soil exposure, Acer mono emergence appears to be related to the reduced light level under Sasa cover, emergence of Kalopanax pictus and Phellodendron amurense is reduced by high litter production of Sasa, and Quercus mongolica suffered a high level of seed predation. The fact that seedlings of different species responded in different ways to particular treatments shows the importance of the regeneration niche for the maintenance of species diversity. The importance of bamboo understory as an ecological filter that shapes the future canopy composition and structure through differentially influencing tree species establishment is discussed.
24113557|We conducted a field study to determine whether species composition and environmental relationships were scale dependent among the strata of a temperate deciduous forest. We compiled tree basal area, woody understory density, field layer cover and three environmental variables from 378 permanent plots in ten 7  386 ha sites in the 294,455 ha Shawnee National Forest, southern Illinois, USA. The effect of changing sample foci (area of inference) without changing the extent (geographic space) on the relationship between species composition and environmental factors was quantified using Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMDS) and Procrustes analysis separately for each stratum. Species composition-environment relationships showed a separation of sites based on their geographic location and bedrock. Species data collected from these heterogeneous and hierarchically structured habitats across scales exhibited varying degree of specialization depending on the habitat. NMDS showed that the species composition-environmental relationships were dependent on the sample foci and stratum investigated with the number of environmental variables related to the vegetation ranging from two-three at the landscape scale and zero-three at the site scale. Procrustes analysis showed that the species composition of individual sites was most frequently related to the physiographic division that the site occurred in rather than the landscape (58%, 18 of 30 comparisons). This relationship was less frequent in the tree stratum than the lower strata. The results of this study are consistent with the hierarchical continuum concept in that the recognition of species-environment relationships depends upon the scale of analysis. From a management perspective it is important to consider these scale relationships to manage the physiographic divisions and the sites within them depending on conservation issues and the priorities of local land managers.
90002546|We propose a simple mathematical framework to define consistently the environmental quality of a given landscape based on the relative abundances of the constituting land cover classes. Unlike traditional diversity measures, the new method does not evaluate the simple dispersion of the relative abundances of land cover classes, but assigns a weight to each land cover class according to the rank along a gradient of environmental quality. To clarify the ideas discussed, the method is illustrated with data from a pilot study to assess landscape changes in an Italian periurban area over the last 50 years.
24113594|The influence of simulated climate change on soil respiration was studied in a field experiment on 4 m x 5 m plots in the semiarid temperate Pannonian sand forest-steppe. This ecosystem type has low productivity and soil organic matter content, and covers large areas, yet data on soil carbon fluxes are still limited. Soil respiration rate  measured monthly between April and November from 2003 to 2006  remained very low (0.09  1.53 mol CO2 m-2 s-1) in accordance with the moderate biological activity and low humus content of the nutrient poor, coarse sandy soil. Specific soil respiration rate (calculated for unit soil organic matter content), however, was relatively high (0.36  7.92 mol CO2 g-1Corg h-1) suggesting substrate limitation for soil biological activity. During the day, soil respiration rate was significantly lower at dawn than at midday, while seasonally clear temperature limitation in winter and water limitation in summer were detected. Between years, annual precipitation appeared to be important in determining soil carbon efflux intensity. Nocturnal warming increased soil temperature in 1 cm depth at dawn by 1.6C on the average, and decreased topsoil (0-11 cm) moisture content by 0.45 vol%. Drought treatment decreased soil moisture content by an average of 0.81 vol%. Soil respiration rate tended to decrease by 7-15% and 13-15% in response to heat and drought treatment, respectively, although the changes were not statistically significant. Nocturnal warming usually prevented dew formation, and that probably also influenced soil respiration. Based on these results, we expect a reduction in the volume and rate of organic matter turnover in this ecosystem in response to the anticipated climate change in the region.
90002568|Ad hoc decisions during fieldwork reduce the accuracy and reliability of vegetationmaps. A method is proposed to objectify vegetation (thematic aspects) mapping (spatial aspects) for monitoring (temporal aspects). The most accurate and reliable description of the vegetation is a list of all plant species found within a plot. Therefore, the proposed method is an interpolation of a spatially representative sample of permanent plots combined with aerial photo interpretation. The method is objective because surveyors do not have to make decisions during fieldwork based on their personal judgement. Moreover, it is flexible, because the classification and interpolation methods can be adapted to specific views or needs depending on the aim of a study.
90002360|The recovery process of a Dutch heathland after fire is investigated. The study area. 12 m x 20 m. has been surveyed yearly between 1963 and 1993. Previous work has shown that a stationary Markov chain models the observed recovery process well. However, the Markov model fails to capture an important observation, the existence of a phase structure. The process begins deterministically, but small random (non-Markov) effects accumulate through time and at some point the process suddenly becomes noisy. Here we make use of the spatial information contained in vegetation maps to examine dynamics at a fine spatial scale. We find that the phases observed at a large spatial scale separate themselves out distinctly at finer spatial scales. This spatial information allows us to investigate hypotheses about the mechanisms governing deterministic versus noisy vegetation dynamics.
90002497|Clonal populations are hierarchically organized: genetic individuals (genets) can consist of many physiological individuals (ramets). Each ramet takes up resources from its local environment, but the resource pattern can be reorganized within the clone by transport between ramets. Thus, an integrated clone is not directly subject to the pattern of resource availability in its habitat. Local shortages can be compensated, hence, the clone can buffer itself against spatio-temporal heterogeneity in the habitat. We modelled a series of habitat types, assuming that one limiting resource was patchily distributed in space, and could fluctuate over time. Habitat types differed in the density, size and persistence of resource patches, and in the contrast between resource-rich patches and the resource-poor background. We applied an individual-based, spatially explicit population dynamic model to compare the performance of two plant strategies in these habitat types. In the Integrator, ramets that were interconnected distributed the resource evenly. In the Splitter, no resource translocation occurred. First we observed population growth of the two strategies separately, then in competition. We found a range of habitat types, where none of the strategies was viable, because of the scarcity of resource patches. As the density of resource patches was increased, first only the Integrator could persist. Then, at intermediate densities of resource patches, the Splitter became viable, and. being a stronger competitor, excluded the Integrator. Finally, at high resource-patch densities, the Integrator occupied the area again. Since the Splitter was viable at high density of resource patches when growing alone, its disappearance is more due to spontaneous extinction, due to competitive exclusion by the Integrator. We predict, therefore, the dominance of integrated clones both in extremely unproductive and productive environments, but for different reasons. It is important to note that this trend was observable only at high spatial and temporal variation in resource availability. Less contrast between patches of different quality, smaller patch sizes, or longer persistence of patches facilitated the dominance of the Splitter. Thus, buffering is advantageous in many but not all habitat types.
24113401|A prediction from the herbivore optimization hypothesis is that for every combination of site/habitat type and plant community type there is a grazing intensity that causes a maximum increase in above-ground net primary productivity compared with the ungrazed control. NPP is defined as the rate of change in green, herbaceous biomass per unit time per unit area. We tested this hypothesis in the primary summer range of a growing population of wood bison (Bison bison athabascae) within the Mackenzie Bison Sanctuary, Northwest Territories, Canada. Plots (0.5  0.5 m2) in graminoid meadows dominated by awned sedge (Carex atherodes) were either clipped at 3 cm, exposed to wood bison grazing, temporarily protected for 3 weeks, or permanently protected. This resulted in the removal of 100%, 0-79%, 0-79% or 0%, respectively, of shoot tissue available to wood bison. NPP of meadows clipped twice at 3 cm in 1986 was the same as control NPP at 5 study sites. In 1987, only the 2 most productive study sites of 1986 were intensively examined: plots clipped once in early summer increased in NPP by 120% and 133% compared to controls; NPP of meadows grazed by wood bison increased by 200% compared to controls at the most productive site, but remained the same as controls at the less productive site. Therefore, the herbivore optimization hypothesis was accepted at the 2 most productive sites in 1987, but rejected at all 5 study sites in 1986. In 1987, the standing crop of dead material was 258% and 142% higher in controls than in grazed plots at the 2 most productive sites. We think this dead material was responsible for the lower NPP observed in control plots.
90002615|The rational definition of spatial analysis units is critical to modeling and understanding large-scale ecological processes. This study assessed the relationship between forest-edge habitat pattern and Lyme disease incidence rate when modeled under three designs for spatial data aggregation. Incidence rates were calculated from passive surveillance data reported for 12 counties in the U.S. State of Maryland during 19962000. A design using road-bounded polygons that varied in size from 0.002 km
24113711|In studies on the partitioning of resources, one issue which has been largely neglected is the change in feeding habits based on the availability of food in the environment, an aspect which is dealt with here with regard to the ichthyofauna of a tropical stream. Feeding preference was analyzed for eight species of fish which consumed high percentages of aquatic insects, based on a collection of fish and invertebrates during both the dry season (June 2006) and the wet season (December 2006) and in two different stretches of the stream, one of which shaded by gallery forest ("closed area") and the other just bordered by herbaceous vegetation ("open area"). Based on a quantitative analysis of the composition of the benthic fauna and the diet of the ichthyofauna, the electivity index was calculated in order to assess potential alterations in the feeding preferences in line with seasonal and spatial modifications to the structure of the habitat and the supply of food. The analysis of the abundance of aquatic insects in the environment showed a predominance of Ephemeroptera in all situations analyzed (areas and seasons), with this insect group being the food item preferred by the majority of fish. However, space-time variations were observed in prey selection by the ichthyofauna. The analysis of supply, consumption and preference demonstrated somewhat varied situations for the majority of species, with both high and low selectivity for items consumed in low and high percentages, with the preferred item varying both spatially and seasonally. The sole exception to this was Phalloceros harpagos, choosing DipteraChironomidae in all the situations analyzed.
24113360|Studies addressing the question of how communities develop reported contrasting temporal patterns of species associations during succession. Several hypotheses were formulated about succession, but a general explanation of community assembly is missing. We analysed trends of species associations during old-field succession in two contrasting habitats: the first with chernozemic brown forest soil and temperate climate, and the second with sand soil and dryer climate. Significant pair-wise associations were calculated across a range of spatial scales. Comparing the two succession seres, one under harsh and the other under favourable environment, we attempted to make generalisations about species relation patterns. We found no trend but fluctuation in the level of community organization during succession. None of the existing succession models explained our results about changes in spatial structure of grassland communities during succession. Fluctuation in the number of significant associations was more intense and took longer under less favourable environmental conditions. Our results suggest that the stressed habitat type posed stronger constraints on species coexistence during succession than the favourable habitat did, but validating this hypothesis needs further investigations.
24113714|We investigated how the small-mammal community is structured in a deciduous forest in southern Brazil, analysing the patterns of vertical and horizontal distribution. We used 12 transect lines, with 180 live-traps distributed on the ground and in the understory, and 12 pitfall traps in total. During six field sessions, we captured 510 individuals belonging to 12 small-mammal species. The combination of different methods of capture resulted in a relative high species richness for the area, although the presence of additional species cannot be ruled out. The forest complexity plays an important role allowing the coexistence of cursorial, scansorial and some arboreal species in this community. The structural variables, liana and bamboo, were the most important ones for species richness. However, the dominant species, Akodon montensis was associated to sites with dense vegetation at ground level such as ferns, bamboos, and shrubs.
24113560|Habitat fragmentation increases the temporal variability in species richness and abundance of forest birds. Therefore, changes in the ecological interactions at which birds are engaged might be transient. Furthermore, despite changes in insectivory rates might have cascading effects if such changes are permanent, there are no evaluations of the persistency of changes in insectivory rates. In this study, we assessed the persistency of changes in insectivory in forest fragments, comparing the intensity of insectivory upon artificial insect larvae at three different years at a single site in central Chile. In coastal Maulino forest, the intensity of insectivory is persistently higher in forest fragments compared to continuous forest. An increase in insectivory might reduce herbivorous insect abundance which is translated into higher growth rates in seedlings at forest fragments, a factor that is changing forest dynamics. Our study suggests that the variation in bird insectivory on fragmented forest is a permanent phenomenon, which might have profound implication for the dynamics of the forest remnants.
24113555|Activity and functional diversity of rhizosphere bacterial communities and fungal composition were studied in order to assess the effects of different genotypes (N8035, N224 and N8637) of Arabidopsis thaliana on these communities growing in different soils. Genotype effect and soil effect were studied independently. Also, the interactions between both factors (genotypes and soils) were considered. The activity was determined by thymidine and leucine incorporation analysis, and Biolog ECO plates were used to study bacterial functional diversity. Additionally, fungi groups (genera and/or species) were studied in the different rhizospheres. Statistical differences on thymidine incorporation between plant genotypes were only found in two of the soils. In addition, functional diversity (measured by Shanonn-Weaver index), showed statistical differences only in soil 1 for line N8035 (line B) vs. the other lines. Redundancy analysis (RDA) performed with Biolog data indicated and important effect of soil type, but also an effect of genotype since line N8035 (line B) was separated from the other lines within each soil in the RDA ordination, in spite of genotypic differences between them were minimum. Furthermore, carboxylic acids and amino acids were found to be the Biolog plate substrates with more influence in samples ordination in the Redundancy Analysis (RDA). However, fungi seem to be less labile to plant selection than bacteria probably due to a lower turn-over time of fungi than bacteria coupled with the short phenology of Arabidopsis. In this paper, plant-soil-microorganism relationships in the rhizosphere were studied, and the complex interactions between them were highlighted. More studies are necessary to go deep in these interactions and to be able to asses the impact of genetically modified plants.
24113348|Diversity relationships of carabids in forest edges and the neighbouring forest interior and the surrounding grassland were studied. Samples were taken along three replicated forest-grassland transects using pitfall traps in the Vrghi-valley (Harghita County, Romania). The study revealed significant edge effect on the carabids. Both the number of species and the Shannon diversity of carabids were significantly higher in the forest edge than in the grassland and in the forest interior. The forest was also significantly more species rich and more diverse by Shannon diversity than the grassland. Carabids of the forest interior, forest edge and grassland can be separated from each other by ordination based on abundances, suggesting that all three habitats have a distinct species assemblage. Indicator species analysis detected significant edge associated species. Our results show that the high diversity of carabids in forest edges is due both to the edge-associated species and the presence of species characteristic of the adjacent habitats.
24113550|Fish assemblages along marine artificial reefs have been the objects of numerous studies. Most of them distinguish resident from transient species according to their habitat association level. Despite its wide use, this distinction presents practical complications for two main reasons: first, the method used for assessing habitat association level may cause mistakes, and second, no objective method has been proposed thus far to determine the habitat association level that should be considered as a boundary between resident and transient species. This paper aims at overcoming these two problems. In order to improve and standardize assessment of habitat association level, we developed a habitat association index (HAI) whose calculation requires only presence-absence data. By taking into account both species occurrence rate and occurrence patterns, our index minimizes the risk of erroneously perceiving species as being equally associated to a habitat. In order to distinguish between resident and transient species objectively, we propose to plot HAI against occurrence rate and then seek the combination providing the most significantly different groups with reference to the relation between these two variables. Using two different datasets collected along Japanese artificial reefs and comparing the results with the ones obtained through an alternate method consisting of plotting persistence against maximum abundance and looking for a major gap along the persistence axis, we demonstrate the effectiveness of this two-step method.
24113564|Spatial distribution modelling can be a useful tool for elaborating conservation strategies for tree species characterized by fragmented and sparse populations. We tested five statistical modelsSupport Vector Regression (SVR), Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS), Gaussian processes with radial basis kernel functions (GP), Regression Tree Analysis (RTA) and Random Forests (RF)for their predictive performances. To perform the evaluation, we applied these techniques to three tree species for which conservation measures should be elaborated and implemented: one Mediterranean species (Quercus suber) and two temperate species (Ilex aquifolium and Taxus baccata). Model evaluation was measured by MSE, Goodman-Kruskal and sensitivity statistics and map outputs based on the minimal predicted area criterion. All the models performed well, confirming the validity of this approach when dealing with species characterized by narrow and specialized niches and when adequate data (more than 40-50 samples) and environmental and climatic variables, recognized as important determinants of plant distribution patterns, are available. Based on the evaluation processes, RF resulted the most accurate algorithm thanks to bootstrap-resampling, trees averaging, randomization of predictors and smoother response surface.
90002588|We investigated the pattern of boundary types in alkaline grassland communities in Hungary. We used moving split window boundary analysis with dissimilarity functions, usually applied to detect ecotones and landscape boundaries at a coarse scale. The results were compared with those of correspondence analysis and clustering methods for the same data set, as well as with the local frequency distributions of populations along the studied transects.
24113708|Interactions of Liometopum microcephalum with other two territorial ants also nesting in or foraging on trees, Lasius fuliginosus and Formica rufa, were studied in South Moravia (Czech Republic), at the northwestern border of its range, in 2005-2009. L microcephalum defends its nest and foraging trees. Its distribution area is fragmented and in the north restricted to river floodplains. We investigated whether competition by other behaviourally dominant ant species could limit its distribution. We found six sites where nests of potential competitors were situated close to a L. microcephalum nest tree. We studied the partitioning of space (occupancy of foraging trees) between the species by observation and by lines of pitfall traps placed between nest trees of L. microcephalum and L. fuliginosus. These species avoided each other; the territory border changed over time. Worker interactions, including combats between L. microcephalum and F. rufa colonies, were observed in the field. Aggressive behaviour occurred close to the nest, on trails, foraging trees, and occasionally at food baits. In such situations, L. microcephalum took advantage of worker cooperation. Encounters of single workers were observed in laboratory experiments. L microcephalum, attacking primarily by biting, lost almost all combats with L. fuliginosus, being paralysed by its secretions. One-on-one encounters with F. rufa led less frequently to combat and chances were more even, but F. rufa prevailed more often. We confirmed the territorial behaviour of L. microcephalum. In the rare situations, in which its colonies occurred together with other territorial species, we observed conflicts but no total displacement of one species by another.
24113457|This study aimed at the effects of habitat age on the reproductive rate of three ground beetle species that are common and widely distributed in forest ecosystems of Europe (Abax parallelepipedus (Pill. & Mitt.), Pterostichus oblongopunctatus (F.), Pterostichus burmeisteri (Heer.)). The study sites comprised comparable age classes, i.e., young stands, mature stands, and mature forests with upcoming and established natural regeneration of four different forest types, namely pure stands of spruce and Douglas fir, and mixed stands of spruce-beech and oak-beech. As an indicator for the reproductive rate of female beetles, the number of ripe eggs in the ovaries and the duration of the reproduction period were investigated from captures of pitfall trapping (n = 8 per site). The dissection of a total of 1236 females uncovered 1704 eggs. A broad spectrum of environmental factors including microclimate (temperature, humidity, precipitation), soil parameters (moisture, pH, thickness and coverage of litter layer) and vegetation characteristics (coverage of moss, herb, grass, shrub and natural regeneration, degree of canopy closure) was assessed to reveal the relevant factors influencing the reproductive success. Within the forest types, the egg-load of the ground beetle species showed statistically significant relations to the age of the stand type. For A. parallelepipedus, a quite uniform reaction pattern was evident with significantly higher egg-loads in the mature forests compared to the young stands. This was accompanied by a longer duration of the reproduction period. A stronger influence of the forest type was obvious for the egg-load of Pt. oblongopunctatus and Pt. burmeisteri. The reproductive rate was generally increasing with temperature aspects in forest sites and was significantly influenced by moisture parameters. The mean maximum temperature of the habitat cared for most of the variation in A. parallelepipedus (61.4%), while the mean minimum temperature explained 60.7% of the reproductive potential in Pt. oblongopunctatus. The variation of Pt. burmeisteri was best explained by the humidity of the air (49.4%).Thus, the results of our study emphasize the role of abiotic parameters on the reproductive rate of ground beetles.
90002601|The floodplain herbaceous vegetation of the Paran River (Argentina) was destroyed by a catastrophic extraordinary flood in 1982-83. The main communities were
90002411|The influence of scale on the discernment of plant community patterns was examined using vegetation-environment data collected from a subalpine wet meadow in south-coastal British Columbia. Species cover data were recorded in 225, 0.25 m
24113591|The influence of water regime on the zonation of wetland communities, distribution patterns of plant species, ecological strategies and biodiversity, was studied in this work. Vegetation of the herbaceous wetland was sampled along a transect, in accordance with the standard central European method. Water level was also measured. The changes in plant species composition, plant functional types (ecological strategies, life forms) and diversity were studied. Classification of vegetation relevs enabled the definition of five grassland communities. The same pattern remained in DCA ordination also when the species matrix was replaced with a matrix of ecological strategies. Relevs were always segregated into distinct plant communities and distributed along the moisture gradient in the same way. Biodiversity is strongly negatively correlated with moistureit is decreasing with decreasing ground level. Plant ecological strategy types (C-S-R) change significantly along the transect as well. In communities thriving on the driest sites (Triseto-Centaureetum), there are three times more C- than C-S-strategists, while in the wettest sites (Caricetum elatae) C-S-strategists predominate over C-strategists by almost two times. At the same time R-and C-R-strategists, as well as therophytes, which are present in drier sites almost disappear in the wettest sites. We show that the moisture gradient essentially influences the distribution pattern of plant communities, species diversity, and manifestation of certain ecological strategy types.
90002582|Contrary to the past belief that the species richness-productivity relationship (SRPR) is characterized by a single true pattern, several analyses have shown that a heterogeneous distribution of SRPRs exists and that the patterns distribution of a SRPR is sensitive to the directness of the estimates of productivity. A simple conceptual model demonstrates that taking into account underlying relationships connecting productivity with species richness produces a heterogeneous distribution of relationships. We suggest that the search for a single pattern for SRPR has reached a dead end, and that we should direct our research focus to exploring the mechanisms responsible for the various SRPRs.
24113667|Beta diversity, species replacement and nestedness are often examined through pairwise comparisons ot sites based on presence-absence data, and the relative importance of these ecological phenomena is evaluated by operations with dissimilarity coefficients. An example is the nestedness resultant dissimilarity (NRD) procedure recently proposed by Baselga (2010, Global Ecology and Biogeography 19: 134-143) to disentangle the nestedness fraction of beta diversity from species replacement. In our view, the component terms in this measure are not scaled uniformly and the nestedness fraction cannot be quantified properly without giving clear definitions for its measurement. We suggest to distinguish among three additive fractions of the species set of two sites: number of species shared (overlap), species replacement (=spatial turnover) and richness difference. Then, absolute beta diversity is obtained as a composite of the second two fractions (known as  WB ), while nestedness is derived from the first and the third. To express beta diversity and nestedness in a relativized form, the respective sums are divided by the total number of species. These allow defining a new index to measure the fraction of beta diversity which is shared by nestedness as well, and is calculated as relativized richness difference with the condition that the two sites being compared have at least one species in common. It is called diversity-nestedness intersection coefficient (F). Baselga's nestedness resultant dissimilarity and the diversity-nestedness intersection coefficient are compared graphically using artificial and actual examples. These functions follow a mathematical relationship for perfectly nested data, otherwise their results are divergent. Discrepancy increases when beta diversity is large, especially if richness differences override species replacement effects in shaping presence-absence data structures. An advantage of F is its compatibility with a general theoretical and methodological framework for revealing pattern in presence-absence data matrices.
24113525|Salt affected soils especially in the arid and semi-arid regions of the world exhibit a significant increasing tendency. The relationship between plant/vegetation richness and soil salinity was assessed for 21 grassland asscociations and one subassociation of Serbia. Among studied grasslands, the ass. Halo-Crypsidetum aculeatae, Suaedetum maritimae and Salicornieto-Suaedetum maritimae were found to be indicators of the extremely saline soils (solonchak), whereas the ass. Lepidio crassifolio-Festucetum pseudovinae, Trifollietum subterranei and Peucedano-Asteretum punctati were typical indicators of sodic soils (solonetz). Management and use of grasslands of salt affected soils and evaluation of pastoral value and salinity tolerance of the studied grasslands was performed.
90002579|Species richness in an assemblage is frequently used as a measure of biological diversity. However, observed species richness is strongly dependent on sample size. If more samples are collected, then more species are observed. Non-parametric species richness estimators, such as the jackknife 1 and 2 and the Chao 1 and 2, are indicated in the literature as potential solutions to the problem of dependence of observed species richness on sampling effort. These methods are intended to estimate the total species richness in an area or assemblage with small sampling effort. Non-parametric estimators are based on the number of species observed, and the number of rare species in a sample, i.e., that occurred in one and/or two sampling units, or with one and/or two individuals. High estimates are produced when samples contain large proportions of rare species. Using a range of real datasets, I show that estimates produced by non-parametric methods are generally dependent on observed species richness. An implicit assumption of these non-parametric techniques is that the rare species curve should present high values at small sample sizes and decreasing values as sampling effort is increased. This assumption was observed in only one out of eight datasets presented. Instead, the rare species curve generally flattens off around a constant value as sampling effort increases. I conclude that non-parametric estimators are not reliable to estimate species richness in an assemblage when the rare species curve does not show a decreasing trend. Comments are made on the possibilities of using non-parametric estimators in the comparison of species assemblages.
24113399|Belowground soil characteristics are recognised as possible key factors in affecting plant species coexistence and community organisation. In this study, soil heterogeneity was generated by the growth of different herbaceous plants under controlled conditions, and thus related to growth and competitive ability of three naturally co-occurring species (Holcus lanatus, Inula viscosa and Pulicaria dysenterica). Soil changes induced by all species caused significant specific effects on the performance of these species and on their competitive hierarchies. Holcus lanatus was the strongest competitor on disturbed soil, but showed a dramatic negative feedback in monoculture. The experimental results are relevant for understanding community ecology and suggest that the investigation of species coexistence should take into account the possible role of plant-soil feedback processes.
90002596|In this paper, I examine the choice of response curves of plants to environmental gradients. The commonest choice has been a unimodal curve, of a shape similar to a Gaussian. This is implied, for example, by correspondence analysis. However, other alternatives are possible which may lead to different interpretations. We have therefore a problem of determining an appropriate model. In part the choice is constrained by our beliefs about the nature of the gradient and by sampling considerations, particularly the modifiable unit area problem. For the rest it is necessary to invoke Ockhams razor and employ a technique such as minimum message length estimation in order to facilitate comparison of models and classes of models. In this paper I examine the existence of gradient(s), the possible forms of response functions and the effects of data contamination.
24113517|Interannual variation of carbon fluxes of grasslands on sandy (5 years data) and heavy clay soils (4 years data) have been analysed. The sandy grassland was carbon sink in 3 (2004, 2005, 2006) out of the investigated 5 years. Its annual C-balance is precipitation limited, the relation seems strongly conservative, with r2 of 0.83. More than half of the net source activity fell to the summer droughts. The heavy clay grassland was net source of carbon in one year (2007) only with no whole year record from 2003, a drought and heat wave year. Dependence of the C-balance on precipitation was somewhat weaker (r2=0.57) than in the sandy grassland. Length of growing period showed less variation here compared to the sandy grassland. Recovery of sink activity after rains was much slower for the heavy clay grassland than for the sandy grassland. The reason behind is that the amount of water required to reach optimal soil water content for plant functioning is several times larger for the mountain grassland. This fact and the low conductivity of the clay soil for water decrease the heavy clay grassland's recovery potential after droughts. Owing to these soil characteristics, the clay grassland may be more vulnerable to droughts in terms of decreased C-assimilation and (soil) carbon losses under the predicted drier summers even if the annual precipitation sum was higher by 10.7% on average for the mountain compared to the sandy grassland. The annual precipitation sum is close to the threshold, below which the grasslands may turn into source of carbon. While in one hand this can be viewed as an example of ecosystem scale adaptation to available water, drought events also involve loss of soil carbon and a potential positive feedback between source activity and decreasing net primary production, on the other.
90002570|Long term vegetation monitoring provides valuable information on spatio-temporal patterns in plant communities that could be analysed to detect spatial relationship changes among species and to interpret dynamic tendencies and assembly rules in non-equilibrium phytocoenoses. In studies of this kind, one should take into account recent ecological theories emphasizing the scale dependence of vegetation; in particular, fine-scale spatial patterns of vegetation are important constraints in the genesis and maintenance of diversity. The information theory models of Juhsz-Nagy offer an appropriate tool for describing the relationship between diversity and multispecies spatial dependence in vegetation. Diversity (florula diversity) and spatial dependence (associatum) are calculated for a series of increasing plot sizes (spatial scaling). The plot sizes at which the two coenostate descriptors reach the maximum information represent the characteristic scales that should be considered as optimal plot sizes in monitoring data collection. Moreover, this methodology enables us to study non-equilibrium dynamics and assembly rules in a more effective way. Diversity and spatial dependence are related, but the power and direction of this relationship change according to environmental characteristics, vegetation type and successional context. The demonstrated correspondence between dominant pattern-generating mechanisms and the related trajectories in abstract coenostate spaces (florula diversity and associatum maximum values), obtained by exploratory simulation studies, can improve interpretation of dynamic state and vegetation tendencies and can support a better inference about the relative role of different background mechanisms. We present some results obtained using this methodology with field data from the forest of Biaowieza National Park (Poland). In particular, we compared the herb layer spatial patterns of dynamically contiguous regeneration phases of the same phytocoenosis. Sampling was performed by recording the presence of plant species in 10 cm x 10cm contiguous microquadrats arranged in 150 m long circular transects. Field data were analysed with the same information theory methods as the ones applied to simulated data. Results show that assemblages of plant individuals are less diverse and more associated in primary than in regenerating stands, suggesting, in both situations, competitive dominance and disturbance as the main ecological mechanisms. Thus, the method was proven effective in distinguishing slightly different dynamical processes.
90002407|Pressure-volume (p-V) analysis, instantaneous transpiration rate and relevant leaf structural information were used to compare leaf water relations for 23 angiosperm species from semiarid temperate loess-, sand- and saline steppe grasslands and several associated habitats representing a water availability gradient. For the species studied, the most marked differences occurred between grasses and dicots. Grasses in our survey possessed low (highly negative) osmotic potential both at water saturation and at turgor loss, moderate transpiration rate, relatively high leaf dry matter proportion (DMP) and - except for the sclerophyllous
24113657|In Europe, epiphytic lichens are incorporated in forest diversity monitoring projects in which sampling at the tree level is carried out on 4 grids on the 4 cardinal points (N, S, E, W) of the trunk. Our results, based on the analysis of a dataset referring to six forest sites in NE-Italy and including 264 trees, indicate that a lichen assessment based on sampling at the tree level less than four cardinal points might be effective in estimating species richness across different forest types, showing very high rates of species capture. Similar results were achieved if the reduction of sampling effort is applied to the number of trees sampled within each area. This effect can be explained taking into account the redundant information collected on the same tree. In the framework of forest monitoring programs, the main perspective of our results is related to the possibility of investing saved resources for improving lichen inventories by including in the surveys currently neglected microhabitats. Further studies would be welcome to identify an optimal balance between sampling effort and information gathered, as economic resources are often a constraint to activate and maintain large-scale and long-term monitoring projects.
24113650|In this paper we examine the use of the minimum message length criterion in the process of evaluating alternative models of data when the samples are serially ordered in space and implicitly in time. Much data from vegetation studies can be arranged in a sequence and in such cases the user may elect to constrain the clustering by zones, in preference to an unconstrained clustering. We use the minimum message length principle to determine if such a choice provides an effective model of the data. Pollen data provide a suitably organised set of samples, but have other properties which make it desirable to examine several different models for the distribution of palynomorphs within the clusters. The results suggest that zonation is not a particularly preferred model since it captures only a small part of the patterns present. It represents a user expectation regarding the nature of variation in the data and results in some patterns being neglected. By using unconstrained clustering within zones, we can recover some of this overlooked pattern. We then examine other evidence for the nature of change in vegetation and finally discuss the usefulness of the minimum message length as a guiding principle in model choice and its relationship to other possible criteria.
90004006|This Essay is response to the general question that I put to myself:
90002586|In this paper, we use decision trees to construct models for predicting vegetation types from environmental attributes in a salt marsh. We examine a method for evaluating the worth of a decision tree and look at seven sources of uncertainty in the models produced, namely algorithmic, predictive, model, scenario, objective, context and scale. The accuracy of prediction of types was strongly affected by the scenario and scale, with the most dynamically variable attributes associated with poor prediction, while more static attributes performed better. However, examination of the misclassified samples showed that prediction of processes was much better, with local vegetation type-induced patterns nested within a broader environmental framework.
24113636|Functional response describes the rate at which a predator consumes prey. Handling time, duration that a predator spends on a captured prey for the consumption, is one of the parameters of many functional response models. Although models typically assume that handling time is static, most empirical studies that directly quantified the relationship between handling time and prey density show that handling time decreases with prey density. In this study, I compare a community model that employs density-dependent handling time and a model with static handling time for their responses to enrichment. The density-dependent handling time is derived by assuming that predators adjust handling time to maximize their fitness. I show that the model with adaptive handling time is more robust to enrichment than the model with static handling time at realistic parameter values. Although community response to enrichment is used as an illustrative example, density-dependent handling time is a common empirical observation and would have general implications to ecological dynamics.
90002500|Species richness, the location of exotic species and heterogeneity (investigated via dissimilarity and via species-area relations) were investigated in relation to spatial scale, in an ecotone between
24113549|Three indirect light measurement methods were compared in mixed deciduous and coniferous forests with heterogeneous stand structure: tRAYci - a spatially explicit light model calculating percentage of above canopy light (PACL); LAI-2000 Plant Canopy Analyzer measuring diffuse non-interceptance (DIFN); and spherical densiometer estimating canopy openness (CO). Correlations between the different light variables were analyzed at several spatial scales (at 5  5, 10  10, 15  15, 20  20 and 30  30 m2). Relationships between light variables and the cover of a light flexible plant, blackberry (Rubus fruticosus agg.), as a potentially sensitive response variable for light conditions were also investigated. LAI-2000 (DIFN) and tRAYci (PACL) seemed the most appropriate for the description of the light environment in the investigated stands. DIFN and PACL had stronger correlations with each other and with blackberry cover than CO. Spatial heterogeneity of light (expressed with coefficient of variation) showed much stronger correlations than mean values both between the methods and between light intensity and Rubus cover. The correlation values between the methods increased towards coarser scales (from 5  5 to 30  30 m2), while the correlation between light intensity and blackberry cover had a maximal response at the scale of 20  20 m2 if a lower resolution of light estimation was used, and had also a maximum at smaller scales if the light was calculated for more points per plot by tRAYci. LAI-2000 can be recommended for the comparison of different stands, however, for fine scale description of light conditions of a stand tRAYci seems to be more appropriate.
24113666|The recruitment patterns of trees, shrubs and climbers were studied in two contrasting geographical areas in Venezuela: the Venezuelan Central Plain (VCP), and shrubland. The main purpose was to determine whether recruitment was simultaneously affected by adult plant abundance and relative fecundity in two different geographical areas, and if such relationships were influenced by life forms, vegetation types, dispersal syndromes, and within and between habitats in the VCP. Multiple regressions were used to determine the effect of adult plant abundance and relative fecundity on seedling and juvenile plant abundance. The relative abundance of juvenile plants increased significantly with the simultaneous increment of relative adult abundance and relative fecundity. However, the best predictor of plant recruitment was adult plant abundance. The effect of adult abundance and the fecundity of life forms on recruitment varied according to habitat in the VCP. Significant regressions were also found for species with animal dispersed plant species in the VCP and animal and wind dispersed species in the shrubland. This agrees with the associations between shrubs with animals dispersal in the VCP. Although plants tended to recruit mainly in those habitats where the parent plants were found, recruitment also depended upon the fecundity and adult abundance of plants from different habitats. It is suggest that there is a progressive colonization from the forest to the forest border and from the border to the savanna, and that there is a high interdependence between adjacent habitats for recruitment in the VCP.
24113454|The distribution of plant communities and the pattern of species diversity were studied along an altitudinal gradient in the northwestern Red Sea region. A total of 58 stands were studied, using ten quadrats (10 m  10 m) per stand. The classification of vegetation using the Two Way Indicator Species Analysis (TWINSPAN) identified five groups representing different altitudinal ranges. Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) clearly distinguished these groups by the first two DCA axes. Edaphic factors such as soil texture, CaCO3, organic carbon, and electrical conductivity contribute to the distribution of plant communities. Species richness, Shannon-index of diversity and evenness show a hump-shaped curve along the altitudinal gradient, whereas beta diversity decreases with elevation. Variation in the diversity and the distributional behaviour of plant species and plant communities in the study area may be attributed to the change of water resources, climatic factors, edaphic variables and anthropogenic pressures along the elevation gradient. The implications of the results are discussed and recommendations are suggested for conservation and sustainable utilization of vegetation.
90002476|It is an essential property of diversity indices that increases in the abundance or frequency of the most frequent species result in a decline in diversity, whereas increases in the abundance of the rarest species lead to an increase in diversity. At the same time, without resort to mathematical operations, it is difficult to determine the sign and measure of alteration in diversity when increasing an additional frequency while leaving all others unaltered. A more concrete task is to determine the index response to a partial alteration of fixed percentage in the frequencies of the multi-species community or collection. Plotting the observed responses or sensitivity values against the frequencies concerned makes possible a good overview of the sensitivity relations. The mathematical groundwork of sensitivity analysis with respect to diversity indices has already been elaborated. To date, however, the methodological possibilities engendered by such analyses have yet to be exploited.
24113343|This study is part of a general project to analyse the biological and ecological mechanisms that influence the invasion of Mediterranean sand dune ecosystems by alien plants. In this paper we analyse the morphological and functional traits of coastal dune wild species (natives and aliens) based mainly on information from the literature. The most common 130 wild species occurring on the recent (Holocenic) coastal dunes were included considering the invasive status of alien plants. A comparative analysis of functional groups was performed through ordination techniques (PCoA using the Gower index). This reveals four functional groups related to the most important plant communities in coastal vegetation zonation. Alien plants were found in all functional groups and no trait or set of traits was specifically related to them. This indicates that aliens show similar traits to those natives growing in different communities of the coastal dune zonation, from the small beach annuals to the evergreen taller shrubs of the Mediterranean macchia. When the invasive status of alien species was taken into account, however, some differences emerged: a) casual aliens were found in almost all groups but their traits were not interpreted as being due to any particular adaptive strategy; b) naturalised aliens were only found in the less fluctuating habitats of the inner coastal zones; c) invasive alien species were connected with two major plant strategies: annual invasive aliens (quick-to-mature low grasses and herbs) and perennial invasive aliens (taller and often strongly clonal).
90002572|The objective of the present study was to develop a model to predict lichen species richness for six test sites in the Swiss Pre-Alps following a gradient of land use intensity combining airborne remote sensing data and regression models. This study ties in with the European Union Project
24113715|Boreal mixedwood understory communities are highly dynamic because they are simultaneously influenced by canopy succession, small-scale environmental variation and disturbances. In such a system, fire initiates succession but canopy gaps, resulting from spruce budworm outbreaks or other disturbances, also affect forest dynamics during succession. In this study, we assessed the short-term response of understory communities along a canopy gap severity gradient in mature and old-growth forest stands. The objective was to determine if resource heterogeneity is driving understory community composition and diversity. We created artificial gaps of varying severities in stands of two late successional forest stages. Four treatments, i.e., total cut, conifer cut, girdling of conifers and a control treatment, were each applied over an area of 100 m2 and replicated three times in both types of forest stands. The cover of each understory species was measured before treatment application and 1, 2 and 11 years following it, in seven 1 m 2 plots per replicate. Percent transmission of photosynthetic photon flux density and soil temperature were also measured on different occasions after the beginning of the experiment. Species richness, alpha diversity and total cover all increased following gap creation, and this increase was sustained up to 11 years. Increases were more pronounced in total cut than in other treatments. The increase in species richness and diversity was also more pronounced in old-growth stands, while total cover increase was greater in mature stands. Gap creation resulted in significant changes in abundance patterns that were associated with the resident species assemblages. The magnitude of changes in community composition did not significantly differ between mature and old-growth forests and differences in species composition among stands were maintained following gap creation. This study supports the evidence that resource heterogeneity resulting from small-scale disturbances will contribute to maintaining diversity among understory communities by allowing species more typical of early-successional communities to coexist with species from late-successional ones. Such a process may be essential for maintaining the species pool likely to re-invade the stands following major disturbances.
24113675|This study describes plant species diversity in well preserved dry coastal dune systems along the southern Baltic coast. Variations in diversity and in distributional character of plant species and plant communities throughout the study areas result mainly because of the interplay between plant succession, exposure, disturbance and resource availability. Environmental indicator values, used to describe dynamics in dune habitats, show a decline of light and temperature with increased distance to the sea, accompanied by higher soil moisture due to accumulation of organic matter. Species richness and species diversity showed a humped-shaped curve along a coast-to-inland gradient. The highest species richness of vascular plants and cryptogamic species were found in plant communities of grey dunes at intennediate levels of environmental and disturbance gradients, which confirms the intermediate disturbance theory.
24113501|The study presents an analysis of spatial and structural diversity of Sal (Shorea robusta), the dominant species of sal forests in Bangladesh by using a neighbourhood analysis approach. The simple field method permits relatively unskilled persons to collect data. Most of the indices can be calculated in the field and the data analysis is comparatively easy. Therefore, the applicability of the method was tested by using different setting of reference trees compared with the full sampling for each plot in the Madhupur sal forests. The results indicate that a group of one reference tree and its four neighbours can be used efficiently to describe the spatial and structural diversity in homogeneous young forests at low costs and in short time. The indices can be easily interpreted allowing quantitative comparisons between different types of forest stands. Sal can be considered as the dominant and comparatively faster growing species than other associate species.
24113721|We evaluated the functional relevance of diaspore traits related to disperser attraction (DAT) of woody plants as indicators of plant-disperser mutualisms in the colonization of Araucaria forest patches in southern Brazil. Diaspores of colonizer plant genera were characterized in relation to DAT (diaspore type, size and color). We discriminated the influences of phylogenetic relationships among plant genera, forest patch size and interaction records with frugivorous birds on DAT by using variation partitioning based on Redundancy Analysis (RDA). DAT variation was poorly explained by each factor separately. Nonetheless, variation explanation shared between phytogeny and interactions was considerably high, indicating that the influence of interactions with frugivorous birds on DAT tended to be phylogenetically conserved. Furthermore, the variation related to patch size was high only when shared with phytogeny and interactions. Large, red, orange or brown diaspores, mainly berries and figs were related to more developed patches, while small to medium, violet or black drupes were related to small patches. Patch colonization is likely to result from a balance between plant responses to habitat conditions and plant diaspore traits, which is expected to influence seed deposition patterns depending on habitat use and diaspore handling by dispersers. Although phylogenetic habitat filtering is commonly thought to reflect ecophysiological plant traits, our results suggest that interactions with dispersers could also explain phylogenetic habitat filtering in plants.
24113513|This brief overview decribes some structural and functional (including carbon cycling) aspects of grassland ecosystems, in particular with regard to the effects of global climate change and changes in land use. Afterward the papers briefly introduce the papers devoted to the above mentioned topics, which were selected for this special volume. As we can see, authors studied different kinds of management (including abandonment) and different parameters of climate change (CO2, temperature, rainfall, etc.). They consider predominately vegetation parameters, including the various plant traits, carbon cycling, soil respiration and different ecophysiological traits in simulated climate change. Dealing with different impacts of climate and/or land-use changes on multi-species systems, that grassland communities certainly are, is exceeding merely experimental synthesized-community or single-species approach on one side and classical vegetation studies on the other. The complex responses of natural communities, including those under FACE systems, are not easy to interpret and understand. The importance of non-linear dynamics during climate changes is emphasized by Bartha et al. (2008). In these selected papers, grasslands appear to be a very dynamic and plastic ecosystem. Grasslands are highlighted from a new, much more topical point of view. Linking ecophysiology and vegetation science, which is characteristic for our selection of papers, is a promising tool to deal with problems on the ecosystem level in general, not only addressing the global climate change and land-use issues.
24113676|Intensification of land use in the last few decades resulted in an increased rate of fragmentation of natural forest habitats. With decreased patch size but increased total borderline length the influence of the surroundings also increased. The extent of influence is especially crucial where the forest stands are adjacent to agricultural lands. We studied the vegetation (cover) and seed bank (soil samples, seedling emergence) along adjacent stands of an abandoned vineyard and edge and interior of an oak forest community (Quercetum petraeae-cerris) widespread in Central-Europe, using five transects (16 m 2 plots along each transect). We asked the following questions: (i) How do vegetation and seed bank composition differ between the vineyard and forest interior and (ii) which weeds are able to penetrate into the forest herbaceous understorey vegetation and seed banks from the vineyard? In total, 15 phanaerophytes and 147 herbs were detected. Negatively associated with canopy shading, herb cover proved the lowest in the forest inferior. Few weeds and other ruderals recorded in vineyard penetrated into the forest interior. Mean seed density decreased one order of magnitude from the vineyard to the forest interior (from 20,831 to 2,159 seed/m 2 ). The seed banks of the abandoned vineyard and edge and forest interior were dominated by ruderals, but decreasing proportion of weeds was detected from the vineyard to the forest interior. Characteristic forest herbs possessed at most sparse seed banks. Our results suggest that high canopy cover mitigates the negative impact of surrounding weedy vegetation on the forest herb layer. Therefore, the effect of surroundings is detectable mostly in the seed banks. We can assume that the formation of an increased ruderal herb cover can be foreseen if canopy opens, because the local propagule sources of forest species are missing from vegetation and soil seed banks.
24113548|In this paper, we present regional differences in pond area by focusing on species - pond area relationships between two groups of vertebrates differing in life cycles and ecological requirements: amphibians and birds. The study was conducted in two regions of Romania: the Trnava Basin and the Fize Valley. Ponds from Trnava were more vegetated with emergent aquatic plants (Phragmites australis and Typha sp.). The amphibian species richness in ponds was higher in Trnava than in Fize and, conversely, Fize contained a higher number of bird species. The diversity of the amphibian species is not related to pond area, however, there was a positive relationship in both regions between amphibian species richness and the percentage of emergent vegetation cover. Bird's species richness, on the other hand, was positively related to both pond area and vegetation cover in Trnava whereas only to vegetation cover in Fize. The z values of the speciesarea relationship for amphibians were low in both regions and slightly negative in Trnava. In case of birds, the z value was larger in Trnava than in Fize, suggesting that the number of species increased more with pond area in Trnava than in Fize.
24113674|The spatial distribution of bivalves in relation to environmental conditions was studied along a second- and third order stream  medium-sized river (River Ipoly)  large river (River Danube) continuum in the Hungarian Danube River system. Quantitative samples were collected four times in 2007 and a total of 1662 specimens, belonging to 22 bivalve species were identified. Among these species, two are endangered (Pseudanodonta complanata, Unio crassus) and five are invasive (Dreissena polymorpha, D. rostriformis bugensis, Corbicula fluminea, C. fluminalis, Anodonta woodiana) in Hungary. The higher density presented by Pisidium subtruncatum, P. supinum, P. henslowanum and C. fluminea suggests that these species may have a key role in this ecosystem. Three different faunal groups were distinguished but no significant temporal change was detected. The lowest density and diversity with two species (P. casertanum and P. personatum) occurred in streams. The highest density and diversity was found in the River Ipoly, in the side arms of the Danube and in the main arm of the Danube with sand and silt substrate, being dominated by P. subtruncatum and P. henslowanum. Moderate density and species richness were observed in the main arm of the Danube with pebble and stone substrate, being dominated by C. fluminea and S. rivicola. Ten environmental variables were found to have significant influence on the distribution of bivalves, the strongest explanatory factors being substrate types, current velocity and sedimentological characteristics.
90002492|The paper responds to the question:
24113342|We used cellular automata models to investigate the effect of initial pattern geometry on competition. We measured the average proportion of sites with foreign neighbours to track interspecific segregation during pattern development. Our simulation results show that intraspecific aggregation can considerably slow down the extinction of the weaker competitor. A series of experiments was performed to estimate the expected time to extinction for the weaker species. The perimeter-to-area ratio of the initial configuration proved to be an adequate determinant of expected time-to-extinction. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the degree of aggregation is closely related to the local density dependence of the colonization functions.
24113559|The identification of functional traits critical to plant responses to the environment promotes our understanding of assembly of communities which relies on environmental filtering. However, the recent trait-community approaches mostly ignore the influence of plant-plant interactions by mainly focusing on traits related to abiotic filtering processes. The conceptual framework we propose aims to clarify how the functional diversity of communities depends on the filtering effect of competition on relevant traits. We define two types of competition-related traits: competitive effect traits reflect the changes in local resource levels due to plant activity while competitive response traits are related to plant response to these resource depletions. We then suggest that the contribution of both types of competition-related traits to functional diversity depends on the importance of competition, previously defined as the effect of competition on plant fitness relative to that of other environmental factors. Therefore, the divergence of functional diversity is predicted to be maximized at intermediate levels of competition in relation to the coexistence of species with different strategies characterized by highly contrasted values of competition-related traits.
24113592|Recently, a number of measures of functional diversity have been proposed for data on species presences and absences. One of the most fashionable methods uses cluster analysis of species computed from a matrix of functional characters. Functional diversity is then summarized as the sum of branch lengths of the dendrogram (FDD). Like other graph-theoretical measures of functional diversity, FDD is an increasing function of species richness. This makes FDD inadequate for comparative studies if we want to quantify a component of functional diversity that is not directly related to differences in species counts. The aim of this paper is thus to develop a graph-theoretical measure of functional diversity that does not depend of species richness. The edges of the minimum spanning tree, calculated from the pair-wise inter-species dissimilarity matrix based on functional traits, are ranked and then a power law relationship is established with the cumulative distances. We empirically demonstrate that the exponent of this relationship is independent of species richness and is therefore a suitable measure of functional diversity.
90002408|Structure and diversity trends (-diversity and species richness) across the
90002415|Habitat variability is largely an external mechanism influencing community variability by affecting abundances and precipitating other community changes but the nature of this influence is poorly understood. The absence of systematic quantitative studies appears to be a major reason for this deficiency. To address the problem, we have evaluated community and population variability in invertebrate communities collected from 49 coastal Jamaican rock pools with contrasting levels of habitat variability.
90002549|Because decomposition is an important ecosystem process and species control of it is an issue in the tropics, we examined how much plant species controlled decomposition compared to environmental conditions on a landslide in Puerto Rico. We chose a landslide because of its extreme special variation in environmental conditions, and found that the landslide center microsite had the greatest variation in temperature and precipitation. Litterbags were filled with single-species leaves of three different plant species and placed in center, border and forest landslide microsites. Bags were collected after 1, 2, 4, 8 and 16 weeks and analyzed for organic matter and various other chemicals. All chemicals showed strong differences among plant species and very little significant environmental variation and. with one exception, organic matter loss followed the same exponential decay pattern for all species and microsites. Interestingly, nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) immobilization was seen for all three litter types, and calcium immobilization was seen for two of the three. However, immobilization of N and P were most pronounced for the early successional species. Finally, the dominance of species effects over environmental effects suggests that leaf litter chemistry strongly influences decomposition in landslides. While the soil decomposer biota act similarly along landslide environmental ranges, they are more responsive to substrate quality.
24113541|Spatial patterns of tropical tree populations may contribute to the identification of underlying ecological mechanisms such as dispersal, competition and pest and pathogen pressure. Classical structure functions for quantifying spatial patterns have limitations, for example, although Ripley's K function is useful for identifying differences in spatial patterns through space, this makes it difficult to identify differences in spatial patterns through time. To complement Ripley's K function, we use the Thomas process, a point pattern model, to quantify temporal changes in spatial patterns for five tropical tree species known to have density-dependent mortality from species-specific pests and/or pathogens on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. We fit the data of each species to the model to estimate the cluster size () and density of cluster centres (). We compared spatial patterns based on the pair correlation function of the Thomas process determined from  and . We found reduced clustering over the past 20 years for Ocotea whitei (Lauraceae) and Quararibea asterolepis (Bombacaceae), the two species with the best-documented cases of pathogen and pest outbreaks on BCI, suggesting support for the Janzen-Connell Hypothesis; however, we reject the hypothesis because neither species showed spatial regularity throughout the census period. We found that the Thomas process point pattern model used in concordance with Ripley's K function and other classical structure functions in ecology can be a simplified and powerful method for testing hypotheses regarding changing spatial patterns of populations through time.
24113651|The importance of space as an ecological factor is an emerging paradigm in community ecology, particularly as a driving force of biodiversity patterns. We analysed -diversity linked to spatial structure in four communities (tropical dry forest, savanna, xerophytic vegetation, subdeciduous forest) that occur in a tropical complex landscape of southern Mexico. The landscape was described through an object-oriented classification of a Quickbird satellite image. The classification revealed a highly heterogeneous spatial arrangement of the four communities. Global (landscape-level) -diversity was 0.12 (mean Srensen index), a value smaller than those observed for the individual communities (0.20  0.41 ). By using multivariate classic and partial Mantel tests, and Mantel correlograms based on two distance classes, we analysed -diversity spatial variation related to landscape configuration. The Mantel statistic values for the four communities combined were negative and very similar both for the classic Mantel (r M = -0.23) and the partial Mantel test (r M = -0.19). Correlograms proved significant spatial autocorrelation across most of the analysed distance classes, except in the case of riparian subdeciduous forest. Tropical diy forest and savanna occupy large, highly connected areas in the landscape. Correlograms for these two communities showed decreasing trends, starting at positive, significant autocorrelation values at short distances. The loss of tloristic autocorrelation beyond a 5000 m distance for the tropical dry forest may reflect spatially autocorrelated dispersal, and thus a dispersal-limited community. Xerophytic vegetation displayed a distinctly different correlogram, with a wavy shape showing an alternation of positive and negative values, in agreement with the insular configuration of this community in the landscape. We suggest that the routinely incorporation of a spatial approach in community ecology research will help in furthering our understanding of the elusive issues of species turnover across space.
24113545|Old-fields (44, aged 1-15 years, from Czech Republic and Hungary) were sorted according to their soil moisture and nitrogen content into wet, mesic or dry, and nutrient poor, moderate or nutrient rich categories, resulting in 8 combinations (dry and nutrient rich fields were not present). The vegetation of old fields was sampled using phytosociological relevs. The changes in species cover data and importance of species trait categories were analysed in relation to three environmental factors, i.e., time since abandonment, soil moisture and total soil nitrogen using ordination, generalized linear models (GLM) and regression tree methods. Successional seres in the first 15 years after field abandonment were divergent. Species diversity significantly decreased with increasing site moisture and was highest in sites with moderate nitrogen content; while the relationship with time was not significant. Raunkiaer life forms and life strategies (sensu Grime) were generally the most predictive species traits considering species occurrence during the course of succession, the type of dispersal considering the different moisture status, and the ability to lateral spread considering the nutrient status of the old-fields. Most trends appeared in both parametric GLM and non-parametric regression tree analyses, several only in GLM. We consider regression trees to be a more convenient tool than GLM in cases such as ours with a rather small number of samples and robust character of data. Another advantage is that a hierarchy of species traits is taken into account. Thus, the occurrence of a species along an environmental gradient can be predicted if the species possesses a certain combination of traits.
24113406|In recent decades, nitrogenous compounds, arising from various anthropogenic sources, have become significant components of precipitation and have been shown to have some profound effects on both species richness and dominance of some plant communities. To examine how nitrogen addition can affect the species composition of Central Great Plains prairie plant communities, we applied N fertilizer at five levels for each of five consecutive years at two sites in south-central Kansas with similar rainfall and temperature regimes. One site was a tallgrass prairie and the other was a sand prairie community. The treatments consisted of N additions at the rate of 0, 5, 10, 20, and 40 g N/m2 in the form of solid urea. Within permanent plots, we monitored annually species richness and evenness, and percentage cover by cool-season graminoids, N-fixing species, and annual/biennial species. All these measures varied considerably among years at both sites, but N treatment effects were evident at the sand prairie site only. At the sand prairie, in general species richness and percentage cover by legumes declined with N addition. Moreover, species were excluded non-randomly from N addition plots, with several species apparently particularly intolerant of N addition. The results reinforce a relationship, observed in Europe and the northern Great Plains, between N addition and plant biodiversity decline in grassland communities, and may point to a serious conservation concern for rare species under a chronic regime of N-enhanced precipitation.
24113679|The population density of three lacertid lizards (Podarcis sicula, Podarcis muralis, Lacerta viridis) was studied along several transects crossing agro-forest habitats in Mediterranean central Italy. Overall, seven transects, in three different wooded patches, were walked for lizards. Distance sampling (with uniform model design) was applied to the dataset in order to calculate population size, dispersion, and coefficient of variation at each site. In order to detect which factors may influence lizard density, a Generalized Linear Model (GLZ; multinomial distribution and cumulative log link function) was built, with environmental variables and density of predators' variables being included in the model as covariates (scale predictor). Density of the three lizard species differed significantly among study sites, evidencing species-specific responses to local patch conditions. None of the environmental variables taken separately in the GLZ model influenced significantly the lizard densities, whereas lizards densities showed species-specific response to the considered environmental variables. The largest species (L. viridis) showed the highest density in the fragment with the most irregular shape and largest wood size, whereas the two smaller Podarcis species presented their highest population density in the site with the smallest wood patch and with a very low snake density. Density of P. sicula was negatively correlated with both the woodland area and Colubridae density, and was positively correlated with woodland shape (i.e. with circularity).
24113367|Diversity of forest trees ranges from monospecific stands to the astonishing richness of tierra firma tropical forests. Such patterns are observed along gradients of latitude, altitude, soil fertility and rainfall. So far, the proposed coexisting mechanisms do not provide a comprehensive and unequivocal explanation of these patterns at the community level. We propose a new theory linking species diversity with organic matter cycle and negative plant-soil feedback induced by litter autotoxicity. This approach focuses on resource-waste rather than resource-only dynamics. High diversity does occur where litter decomposition is rapid and ecosystem nutrient cycles are closed. On the other hand, single species dominance is found where litter decomposition is slow and/or autotoxicity is removed from the nutrient cycle pathway. Unlike previous theoretical views, the one we present proves potentially capable of explaining differences in species diversity both along environmental gradients and within the tropics.
24113495|As conservation of sensitive habitats is a high priority issue in European environmental policy, there is considerable interest in mapping and monitoring specific habitats of high conservation value. In this study, we discuss the potential of the Swiss mire monitoring program to monitor small area habitats in sufficient detail. The monitoring scheme combines nationwide probability sampling and predictive habitat mapping based on a field data sample. Thus, it is designed to identify spatiotemporal changes at the stand level and to derive hard statistics for the sub-national level. For feasibility reasons, the thematic focus is on semi-quantitative mean indicator values derived from vegetation records. These measures provide robust estimates of essential floristic site conditions. Regression models based on CIR aerial photographs are applied to continuously map respective measures across the sample mires. The present study explores the required investment of data for model-based mapping. Exemplary mapping results are presented and validated within a reference mire. Repeated tests show that about one hundred field records are needed to guarantee optimal prediction accuracy and reliable error estimates for all target variables. The corresponding 95% error quantiles in a test data set are below 0.7. To evaluate the benefit of high resolution orthophotos (30 cm resolution), the model prediction is compared with results obtained from coarsened images. Although the original CIR images produce the best model performance, the models based on resolutions comparable to modern satellite images still show considerable potential to assess larger areas where the use of digital aerial photographs is limited. The resulting spatially-explicit in-depth information can resolve the common thematic limitations of stand-alone remote sensing applications in conservation monitoring. As the method is applicable consistently across a range of habitat types, we argue that it has the potential to become a standard method for operational monitoring of priority habitats in European nature conservation.
90002595|A recent floristic and environmental survey was undertaken on the roadside verges along the main highway between El Arish and Rafah (31 10N, 33 48E and 31 17N, 34 15E) that extend for about 45 km on the northeastern Mediterranean coast of Sinai (Egypt). 63 stands were studied at 700-m intervals to represent the variation of vegetation, and to compile the floristic composition of the study area. Four main landform zones were distinguished (from the seashore inwards) and run parallel to the roadway: (A) coastal plain, (B) saline depressions, (C) sand plains and (D) sand dunes. There is a gradual increase in the total number of recorded species in the recognized landform units. Application of TWINSPAN analysis yielded 18 vegetation groups (VG) that comprised 7 main vegetation types (VT). These vegetation types were (I)
90002489|A set of coupled logistic growth equations is used to simulate the temporal replacement of vegetation (species or groups). Simulation results approximately reproduce two time series of 415 to 585 years obtained from field investigations in the Swiss National Park (SNP). Although the shape and the fit of the simulated curves are convincing, the assumption that all species must be present at the beginning of the simulation and also the absence of movement in space are not realistic. To overcome this, the model is extended to include space and is used for simulating the succession in an abandoned pasture of the SNP. As long as only vegetation change in all individual quadrats is simulated separately, vegetation boundaries remain unchanged over the simulated period of 400 years. When species are allowed to move between quadrats, the spatial pattern changes over the simulated time, and field data can be taken as boundary conditions to realistically simulate change. It is concluded that spatial dynamics must be taken into account to model long-term succession.
24113404|A most widespread technique in vegetation boundary detection is the Moving Split Window analysis. It is effective in single edge cases provided that the attributes are highly correlated. In dry grasslands with mosaic structure, boundary zones are frequent, they are rather close to one another, causing some uncertainty in edge detection. Artificial "community patterns" were used to reveal the response of dissimilarity/distance functions to the number and distance of edges and to window sizes. Dissimilarity functions are sensitive to the compositional difference of the adjacent patches, and the dissimilarity increases with window size. The usual significance test highly depends on the patch size and edge frequency, therefore additional analyses must be applied or other randomization methods should be found that can ignore the effect of patch size.
24113647|When an opportunistic predator is looking for a given type of prey and encounters another one from different species, it tries to utilize this random opportunity. We characterize the optimal levels of this opportunism in the framework of stochastic models for the two prey-one predator case. We consider the spatial dispersal of preys and the optimal diet choice of predator as well. We show that when both preys have no handling time, the total opportunism provides maximal gain of energy for the predator. When handling times differ with prey, we find a conditional optimal behavior: for small density of both prey species the predator prefers the more valuable one and is entirely opportunistic. However, when the density of the more valuable prey is higher than that of the other species, then the predator prefers the first one and intentionally neglects the other. Furthermore, when the density of the less valuable prey is high and that of the other one is small, then predator will look for the less valuable prey and is therefore totally opportunistic. We demonstrate that prey preference is remunerative whenever the advantage of a proper prey preference is larger than the average cost of missed prey preference. We also propose a dynamics which explicitly contains two sides of shared predation: apparent mutualism and apparent competition, and we give conditions when the rare prey goes extinct.
90004017|Landscape complexity in the boreal forest is a function of physiographic complexity (spatial processes) and post-fire successional (temporal) processes operating across scales. In this study we examine the role ofsuccession and topographic complexity in determining the landscape complexity of Riding Mountain National Park, Manitoba, Canada. Landscape complexity is assessed by using multifractal analysis to quantify landscape patterns from Landsat TM imagery. To determine whether complexity changes with age, "young" sites (post-fire stand ages = 11 and 30 years) were matched with adjacent "old" sites (post-fire stand ages > 95 years). The influence of physiography on landscape complexity is examined by comparing sites having "simple" and "complex" physiographies (as determined by fractal surface analysis). The scaling properties of landscape complexity are determined by calculating the multifractal spectrum (
24113566|There is increasing evidence that regime shifts occur at several scales in ecosystems (from the spatiotemporal alternation of two species to large-scale, ecosystem-level rearrangements). Yet, the theoretical background for understanding these changes is far from clear. Since fishing down in marine ecosystems is well-documented trend, and its top-down cascading effects in food webs have been richly documented, it is a current question whether overfishing, in general, can also influence regime shifts at lower levels. We model simple marine ecosystems by dynamical food webs and investigate the probability of regime shifts emerging among primary consumers. We considered cases where only one of the primary consumers is persistent in the stationary state. By perturbing the death rates in the food web, we studied the circumstances when the previously persistent primary producer is indirectly changed by the previously non-persistent one. Whether and how regime shifts (e.g., change in primary consumers) can occur depends on (1) food web topology (presence of top-predator and alternative producer), (2) the relative strength of perturbation of primary consumers' death rates, and (3) the dynamical parameters of the recovering consumer. We found that overfishing, food web topology and dynamical parameters together determine the probability of regime shifts. Thus, integrative and complex models are needed in multispecies fisheries.
90002477|The Energy-Limitation Hypothesis (ELH) predicts that species richness is an increasing function of abundance. In contrast, the Niche-Limitation Hypothesis (NLH) predicts that high abundances become easier to attain as species richness increases. We tested the NLH and ELH using aquatic invertebrate communities of tropical rock pools. These rock pools span a gradient from very low density pools (
90002563|Wavelets are relatively new mathematical tools that have proven to be quite useful for analyzing time series and spatial data. We provide a basic introduction to wavelet analysis which concentrates on their interpretation in the context of analyzing time series. We illustrate the use of wavelet analysis on time series related to vegetation coverage in the Arctic region.
24113397|The spatial distribution of living trees of different size-classes was examined on two sites with different fire histories in a mature Pinus sylvestris L. dominated forest in eastern Finland. The study area was a 4-ha square plot, which was divided into two parts based on fire history analysis. In one part, the last fire event was a stand-replacing fire in the early 19th century, after which the whole stand regenerated, while the other part of the study plot was subsequently burnt by a surface fire in 1906. For the analyses, the trees were divided into five height-classes, reflecting competitive hierarchy. Spatial patterns of different tree height-classes were analysed using formulae for spatial autocorrelation with categorical data. In both areas, saplings showed an aggregated and overstorey trees a random spatial pattern at all scales studied. The other tree height-classes showed aggregated or random spatial patterns depending on the area and distance class. Generally, similar tree height-classes tended to be randomly or positively associated (attraction), except for the co-dominant and dominant, and overstorey trees, which were negatively associated (repulsion). The results suggest that the three dimensional spatial organization of the tree population was likely driven by two main interacting processes: (1) Low severity disturbances such as surface fires and treefalls, which create favourable regeneration patches, leading to positive association in smaller tree height-classes and (2) strong neighbourhood competition among the largest trees and the competitive effect of these large trees on the small understorey trees, leading to negative association among these components of the tree population. The results also indicate that canopy replacement by trees currently in the understorey is unlikely to occur without a sufficient opening in the forest.
24113521|Soil fluxes of methane and nitrous oxide were determined for grasslands on sandy, loess and clay soils in Hungary. As the direction of methane flux (emission or uptake) depends on the soil characteristics bi-directional fluxes were observed. For sandy and loess grasslands the sink and source processes are practically balanced showing a negligible low mean methane flux for 2006-2007 (0.04-0.05 kg CH4 ha-1 yr-1). In this period the clay grassland functioned as a weak sink for methane (0.34 kg CH4 ha-1 yr-1). Average soil nitrous oxide emission fluxes for the period of 2002-2006 was 0.5 kg N ha-1 yr-1 for sandy and loess while 0.2 kg N ha-1 yr-1 for clay grassland, respectively, with substantial inter-annual variations. Taking into account the total atmospheric N-input 0 to 8 per cent of deposited nitrogen is emitted from the soils in the form of N2O as the intermediate product of soil denitrification processes.
24113498|Species rarefaction curves have long been used for estimating the expected number of species as a function of sampling effort and they represent a powerful tool for quantifying the diversity of an area from local (-diversity) to regional scale (- and -diversity). Nonetheless, sampling species based on standard plant inventories represents a cost expensive approach. In this view, remotely sensed information may be straightforwardly used for predicting species rich sites. In this paper, we present spectral rarefaction, i.e., the rarefaction of reflectance values derived from satellite imagery, as an effective manner for predicting bio-diverse sites. We tested this approach in ten biogeographical subregions in Switzerland. Plant species data were derived from the Swiss 'Biodiversity Monitoring' programme (BDM), which represents species richness of Switzerland at the landscape scale by a systematic sample of 520 quadrats of 1 km  1 km. Seven Landsat ETM+ images covering the whole study area were acquired. Species and spectral rarefaction were built and results were compared by Pearson correlation coefficient considering several sampling efforts (as measured by the number of sampled quadrats). Local -diversity showed a similar pattern considering the ten biogeographical subregions while - and -diversity showed higher values for regions in the Alpine arc and lower values for plateau regions and Jura mountains on the strength of the higher ecological (and spectral) variability of the former areas. Meanwhile, positive correlations between species and spectral richness values were significant only after a certain amount of area was accumulated, thus indicating a scale dependence of the fit of satellite and species data. With this paper, we introduce spectral rarefaction as an effective tool in quantifying diversity at a range of spatial scales. Obviously, the achieved results should be viewed as an aid to plan field survey rather than to replace it. We propose to use worldwide available remotely sensed information as a driver for field sampling design strategies.
90002417|Local stability analysis of dynamical models of interacting populations predicted that food web connectance (
90004008|Hydrology, which filters propagule bank expression, differs among Carolina bay wetlands. We examined the relationships among hydrology, recruitment from the propagule bank, and bay vegetation over one season in six herbaceous bays that differ in hydroperiod. Sediment cores were taken at distances from each bay center representing 10%, 25%, 50%, and 75% full water level and subjected to flooded, midsummer drawdown, or moist soil conditions in an outdoor mesocosm experiment. Vegetation from the cores was compared among hydrology treatments and with bay vegetation. In bay vegetation, species richness and dissimilarity, calculated among replicate plots at each distance, increased from flooded bay centers toward the margins, where water level fluctuated. Among bays, vegetation richness increased from more pond-like bays to the flashiest bay. Within bays, vegetation graded from obligate wetland species to a mixture of obligate and facultative species from center to margin. The flooding treatment promoted convergence on obligate wetland floating-leaved and emergent species, low species richness, and high community similarity of vegetation from the sediment cores. Our research supports the hypothesis that hydrology filters recruitment and species distribution in Carolina bays. The extent of inundated, fluctuating water, and exposed sediment areas can determine seasonal vegetation organization in such wetlands. Vegetation in wetlands with steep basins and stable hydrology ismore likely zoned; dominant species show discontinuous distributions along the flooding gradient. In contrast, fluctuating hydrology in shallow basins results in unzoned vegetation, with more continuous species distributions from wetland center toward the margins.
90002589|Knowledge of the weed seedbank composition, dynamics and relationships with the emergent weed community, is necessary to improve weed management practices. Field research was made over three years in a maize (
24113402|After clearcutting xerothermic oakwoods once natural in the forest-steppe loess regions of Hungary, the perennial understorey grass Brachypodium pinnatum has been persisting for decades by establishing microhabitats from shade to full sun. In this paper, we explore variation in leaf anatomy for plants growing in different microhabitat light regimes (full shade under oak canopy, half shade near shrubs, and in unshaded grassland) in situ, and for plants reciprocally transplanted between these microhabitats. Leaf lamina thickness and mesophyll thickness were about 1.5 times greater in die grassland in situ than in oak subcanopy due to an additional layer of mesophyll cells and to 25-32% taller mesophyll cells. Mesophyll thickness and the proportion of veins plus sclerenchyma were lower for plants transplanted from either full or half shade to full sun than in situ plants in the grassland. Parenchymatous bundle sheath tended to be thicker in the grassland than in the two other microhabitats. Mean intervenial distance remained invariable among microsites. These adjustments in leaf anatomy may be a considerable part, but presumably not the dominant component of the medium-term (one year) light acclimation of B. pinnatum and the species' success in microsites with contrasting light climate appearing side-by-side during secondary vegetation succession.
90002359|This study investigated microhabitat relationships of terrestrial bryophytes in a subalpine forest of coastal British Columbia. Substratum affinities were characterized for dominant bryophytes. Logistic regression analysis was used to gain insight into the ecological determinants of fine scale (0.1m
24113627|Changes in taxa composition among different communities in a landscape or along an environmental gradient are defined as -diversity. From a biogeographic point of view, it is interesting to analyse patterns of -turnover across latitudinal bands, and to understand whether -diversity is significantly associated with endemism at lower latitudes, as predicted by theory. We inspected these issues by using squirrels (Rodentia, Sciuridae) as a study case. Distribution data for each genus were obtained from literature and mapped. The two hemispheres were subdivided into 23 latitudinal bands of equal area, and we calculated a -turnover index between latitudinal bands with two formulae: Wilson and Shmida's (1984) and Lennon et al.'s (2001) indices. We found that the peak of number of Sciuridae genera significantly corresponded to the peak in -turnover scores at the same latitudes (25-31N) with Wilson and Shmida's (1984), but not with Lennon et al.'s (2001) index. We also found that the turnover between ground and tree squirrels corresponded to the grassland vegetation latitudinal bands (around 40 N), and the beginning of the latitudinal bands characterized by tropical and subtropical forests is accomplished with the occurrence of tree and flying squirrels.
24113713|The density and spatial pattern of ant nests were examined in two sub-Mediterranean habitats of the Balaton Uplands in Hungary. The aim of this study was to examine whether regular spatial arrangement, the most common dispersion pattern among ants that mostly indicates competition, is a characteristic feature of these communities. In both habitats, the nests of Aphaenogaster subterranea and Lasius emarginatus had the highest density, followed by the nests of Prenolepis nitens and Temnothorax crassispinus, which were also frequent. The intraspecific spacing pattern of nests was random or aggregated in most cases, and when the species identity of the nearest neighbour was disregarded, the nests of all the individual species showed significant aggregation. The nearest interspecific inter-nest distances proved to be significantly shorter than the nearest intraspecific inter-nest distances both in the case of the entire community and the majority of individual species, except for the polydomous L. emarginatus. On the basis of the results it seems that neither intra-, nor interspecific competition may be an important process in the formation of nest spacing patterns in these habitats.
24113639|There are many different metrics for expressing the dissimilarity between two samples or plots. The large majority of these dissimilarity measures attempt to summarize different aspects of plot-to-plot dissimilarity based either on species presences and absences within plots or on species abundances. Here, we propose a new parametric measure of plot-to-plot functional dissimilarity that incorporates information about the degree of functional dissimilarity between species. This measure is obtained from the combination of Hurlbert's 'expected species diversity' with one dissimilarity coefficient of the 'Bray-Curtis family' and calculates the expected functional dissimilarity between the species in plot A and their functional nearest neighbors in plot B if m individuals are chosen randomly with replacement from each of the two plots. Due to its parametric nature, the proposed measure has a different sensitivity to the presence of rare and abundant species within plots as a function of the selected parameter value.
24113503|Biodiversity monitoring is important to identify conservation needs and test the efficacy of management actions. Variants of "abundance" (N) are among the most widely monitored quantities, e.g., (true) abundance, number of occupied sites (distribution, occupancy) or species richness. We propose a sampling-based view of monitoring that clearly acknowledges two sampling processes involved when monitoring N. First, measurements from the surveyed sample area are generalized to a larger area, hence the importance of a probability sample. Second, even within sampled areas only a sample of units (individuals, occupied sites, species) is counted owing to imperfect detectability p. If p < 1, counts are random variables and their expectation E(n) is related to N via the relationship E(n) = N*p. Whenever p < 1, counts vary even under identical conditions and underestimate N, and patterns in counts confound patterns in N with those in p. In addition, part of the population N may be unavailable for detection, e.g., temporarily outside the sampled quadrat, underground or for another reason not exposed to sampling; hence a more general way of describing a count is E(n) = N*a*p, where a is availability probability and p detection, given availability. We give two examples of monitoring schemes that highlight the importance of explicitly accounting for availability and detectability. In the Swiss reptile Red List update, the widespread and abundant slow worm (Anguis fragilis) was recorded in only 22.1% of all sampled quadrats. Only an analysis that accounted for both availability and detectability gave realistic estimates of the species' distribution. Among 128 bird species monitored in the Swiss breeding bird survey, detection in occupied 1 km2 quadrats averaged only 64% and varied tremendously by species (3-99 %); hence observed distributions greatly underestimated range sizes and should not be compared among species. We believe that monitoring design and analyses should properly account for these two sampling processes to enable valid inferences about biodiversity. We argue for a more rigorous approach to both monitoring design and analysis to obtain the best possible information about the state of nature. An explicit recognition of, and proper accounting for, the two sampling processes involved in most monitoring programs will go a long way towards this goal.
24113716|Insect parasitoids have been widely studied, particularly due to their ecological implications through the study of the special relationships observed among this kind of species, as well as to their expression in mathematical models. However, there are still scarce studies on parasitoid relationships and their expression in more realistic mathematical models. The present work is aimed at deepening into competition relationships among parasitoids. Bearing this purpose in mind, the system shaped by two parasitoids was chosen: Trichogramma brassicae (idiobiont egg parasitoid) and Chelonus oculator (koinobiont egg-larval parasitoid). Both species compete against each other for the same host species (Lepidoptera). The results obtained in the laboratory point out that T. brassicae may be considered a better competitor than Ch. oculator. This is the result of the extrinsic competition due to the substances injected by the female during parasitization. However, our results show this classification into better and worse competitors inaccurate. Thus, these interspecific competition influences are detrimental to both parasitoid species. This is the first time that the effect of this competition is mentioned regarding parasitoid functional response. Our results and their ecological implications are reported and discussed.
24113596|The parasitization behaviour of Chelonus oculator (F.), egg-larval parasitoid of noctuid lepidopteran species, has been studied under laboratory conditions, using Ephestia kuehniella Zeller as host, at four different temperature levels (10, 20, 30 and 401 C) and five densities of host eggs (50, 100, 150, 200 and 250). A significant effect of temperature and parasitism density was observed. At 10 C, there was no parasitism, whilst at 40 C it was very low; presenting adequate values at the two other temperatures (20 and 30 C). With regard to these facts, the functional responses of this parasitoid species were adjusted and we noted that they display Holling type III. Estimating the handling times from the respective mathematical expressions, we obtained 10.944 and 15.250 min, at 20 and 30C, respectively. These values are considerably higher than the respective times obtained by direct observation, 0.597 and 0.560 min for these temperatures (this difference is due to the fact that in the first case, unlike the second one, the time used for the search of the host is also included). The results obtained from the parasitization behaviour of Ch. oculator are discussed, also considering it as a candidate biological control agent against Spdoptera exigua (Hbner), beet armyworm, with a view to its possible use in greenhouse crops in Spain.
24113562|Rarefaction is a widely applied technique for comparing the species richness of samples that differ in area, volume or sampling effort. Despite widespread adoption of sample-based rarefaction curves, serious concerns persist. In this paper, we address the issue of the spatial arrangement of sampling units when computing sample-based rarefaction curves. If the spatial arrangement is neglected when building rarefaction curves, a direct comparison of species richness estimates obtained for areas that differ in their spatial extent is not possible, even if they were sampled with a similar intensity. We demonstrate a major effect of the spatial extent of the samples on species richness estimates through the use of data from a temperate forest. We show that the use of Spatially Constrained Rarefaction (SCR) results in species richness estimates that are directly comparable for areas that differ in spatial extent. As expected, standard rarefaction curves tend to overestimate species richness because they ignore the spatial autocorrelation of species composition among sampling units. This spatial autocorrelation is captured by the SCR, thus providing a useful technique for characterizing the spatial structure of biodiversity patterns. Further work is necessary to determine how species richness estimates and the shape of the SCR are affected by the method of spatial constraint and sampling unit density and distribution.
90002478|This paper discusses the measurement of taxonomic diversity of a given community or set of species. First, given D, the matrix of pairwise distances between species, I propose to summarize taxonomic diversity through Rnyis information-theoretical parametric formalism on D. In this way, a family of taxonomic diversity indices is obtained which shows different sensitivity to the presence of species with different levels of taxonomic distinctness. The adequacy of information-theoretical indices for quantifying taxonomic diversity is discussed.
24113505|Grasslands play an important role in terms of biodiversity, landscape and agriculture. For 25 years, the Bavarian agri-environment scheme (AES) "Agricultural landscape program" (KULAP) has been funding management practices which are intended to conserve cultural landscapes and enhance biodiversity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the Bavarian AES schemes in terms of plant diversity. As AES is divided into many different, clearly divergent schemes, each of these schemes was evaluated separately. The evaluation focussed not only on species richness but also on other diversity parameters such as the presence of rare and common species, the percentage of species group members and the evenness as well as agronomic values such as forage value, percentage of agronomically desirable species or percentage of weeds. In order to achieve this goal, we selected about 950 pairs of grassland plots with and without AES. Differences in species richness between AES and control plots were most significant in the site related AES schemes and organic farming, whereas plots with other farm related AES schemes hardly differed from their controls. Obviously, schemes which really demand management changes on the part of the farmer have a definite effect on plant species diversity in grasslands compared to those which closely resemble conventional management.
24113567|There is a recent proposal to apply convex hulls to the measurement of habitat filtering, trophic diversity and functional richness. Although this approach has successful applications, some conceptual difficulties with the interpretation of results should not be overlooked. The basic assumption that trait convergence and the associated deflation of the convex hull is a result of environmental (habitat) filtering does not always hold, because 1 ) some traits may converge as a result of competition as well, and 2) environmental factors, such as disturbance, may lead to divergence, rather than convergence for certain characters. There is neither evidence nor theoretical proof that increasing correlations between traits and reduction in trait combinations are always caused by habitat filtering, especially when individual trait ranges are unchanged. Diversity measurements in terms of convex hull volumes may be misleading because zero or near zero values may result no matter how wide the individual trait ranges are. For these reasons, applications of convex hulls cannot be viewed uncritically, and considerable care must be taken even if the method is used in combination with other techniques.
24113516|We imposed two different global changes, climate warming and declining species richness, to synthesized grassland ecosystems, in order to determine both their single-factor effect as well as their possible interactions on plant phenology. Twelve climate-controlled chambers were therefore exposed to two temperature treatments (0 C and 3 C above ambient air temperature) and three species richness treatments (1, 3 and 9 species). Measurements consisted of visual phenological observations of the appearance of flower buds until flowering and of autumn senescence stages, as well as of readings of the leaf chlorophyll content. In spring, chlorophyll concentrations increased under warming (9.7%) and decreasing species richness (39.4%). Warming also induced an earlier spring start (4 days) and enhanced flower production, whereas decreasing species richness likewise enhanced flower production but delayed the start of spring (16 days). In autumn, leaf senescence started simultaneously at the two temperature treatments and three species richness levels, but the end of the senescence was delayed in the heated chambers, as well as in the monocultures. Although warming and species richness interacted with species identity, no warmingspecies richness interactions were found. In conclusion, although warming and species richness influenced the duration of the growing season, none of these effects were reflected in the above-ground biomass of the individual plants. Under the projected climatic changes, warming will therefore not necessarily enhance the productivity of the individual plants.
24113655|Farmland ponds represent habitats with a high conservation value that make a significant contribution to regional biodiversity. Understanding the influence of plant species composition and environmental variables in driving variations in animal species composition in ponds is an important issue in the fields of ecological research and conservation biology. Using variance partitioning techniques to quantify independent effects, we examined how plant species composition, local-landscape configuration and physicochemical variables interact in influencing aquatic insect and amphibian community composition. The ponds investigated in this study were located in the Site of Community Importance - Special Protected Area (Natura 2000 Network) "Monte Labbro - Alta Valle delFAlbegna" (Tuscany, central Italy). Our results showed that: (i) plant community composition (such as Carex hirta, Glicerya fluitans, Potamogeton natans, Typha latifolia) is a good predictor for amphibian but not for aquatic insect species composition; (ii) aquatic insect species composition was more strongly affected by the landscape context, whereas for amphibians the local characteristics of the ponds were determining; (iii) the physicochemical context is a poor predictor for these animal taxa; (iv) lastly, and notably, the explanatory variables explained a high proportion of the total variation in amphibian and aquatic insect species composition. Our results have important implications with respect to the creation of new ponds, which should preferentially take place close to semi-natural grasslands and other wetlands, in order to maintain greater connectivity, and away from urban areas. Moreover, larger ponds are preferable for the preservation of pond biodiversity. The management and conservation of ponds is necessary to ensure the protection of habitats, the survival of individual species and overall pond biodiversity.
90002472|Bryophyte vegetation on volcanic rock outcrops and dead wood is studied in a near-natural montane beech stand in northern Hungary. Substrate specificity of the species and the existing interspecific relationships are described. The most important species combinations and their diversity are evaluated using information theoretical functions and Monte-Carlo simulations.
24113595|Species diversity loss is expected to alter ecosystem function, but previous work has demonstrated inconsistent relationships between these two factors. Productivity is the most common measure of ecosystem function, but given the difficulty in measuring productivity, standing biomass or change in biomass are frequently used as proxy measures. A review of the recent ecosystem-function literature revealed that 93% of studies measure productivity as biomass, thereby assuming a strong positive relationship between these two variables. We tested this assumption by measuring biomass and productivity in seagrass beds in the Gulf of Mexico. We found that the relationship between standing biomass and productivity could be positive or negative, depending on site. Change in biomass over months inconsistently underestimated short-term productivity. The relationship between biomass and productivity may depend on plant age, successional stage, or site-specific rates of tissue loss to herbivory, senescence, or disturbance. Our results suggest that if biomass continues to be used as a measure of productivity without justification, highly productive communities that typically show little change in biomass, such as healthy climax communities, will not be interpreted as such. The conflicting results of previous studies investigating the relationship between diversity and productivity may be due to differences in the inherently variable relationship between biomass and productivity at different sites and scales.
90002414|In this paper, I re-examine the subtropical rainforest succession previously studied by Williams, Lance, Webb, Tracey and Dale (1969) (WLWTD) using a clustering procedure based on the
24113556|Breeding bird assemblages and species present in two 'archipelagos' of wood fragments, included in fragmented landscape of Central Italy, were studied in springs 2002 and 2003 with line transect method ( 1 : Cornicolan hills study area: 20 fragments; 2: Anzio-Nettuno study area: 13 fragments). An area effect was shown in diversity/dominance analyses carried out by species rank/frequency diagrams obtained for the wood fragment assemblages of two 'archipelagos'. Smaller fragments showed a lower species richness, a higher relative frequencies of first dominant species and a higher value of angular coefficient of assemblage lines. When fragment area decreases, the assemblage tendency lines in diversity/dominance diagrams show a higher slope (i.e., higher angular coefficient). Simpson dominance index was inversely correlated to fragment area: smaller fragments concentrate dominance in less species compared to larger ones. This approach suggests that the reduction in area of wood fragments could be comparable to a stress on breeding bird assemblages induced by anthropogenic habitat conversion and fragmentation, here considered as a disturbance at landscape level.
90002355|Accurate and unbiased radiative energy transfer models are critical to our understanding of ecosystem primary productivity, carbon cycling, and climate change. Much of the current research in this area is based on models parameterized for grasslands and broadleaf forests. However, many temperate montane and boreal forests are dominated by conifers, which present unique challenges to modellers. We propose two fundamentally different strategies by which plant canopies optimize solar radiation interception. Laminar canopies (e.g., grasslands, broadleaf trees) are solar panels that directly intercept incoming radiant energy. By contrast, conifer canopies are conical anechoic (without echo) surfaces that intercept radiant energy by scattering it through the canopy. The properties of anechoic surfaces are well known in acoustical and electrical engineering, but have not been applied in environmental biophysics. We discuss the physical principles of anechoic surfaces, and demonstrate how these principles apply to conifer trees and canopies. A key feature of anechoic interception is low radiance over all wavelengths, which is an emergent property of the system. Using empirical data from boreal forest stands in Riding Mountain National Park (Manitoba, Canada), we demonstrate that conifer canopies have very low near-infrared radiance compared to laminar broadleaf canopies. Vegetation index values for conifers are thereby reduced, resulting in underestimates of primary productivity and other biophysical parameters. We also discuss the adaptive significance of boreal conifer geometry, and consider factors driving selection of laminar versus anechoic canopy architectures.
24113719|In order to better understand the factors governing community assembly on riverine islands, we conducted a greenhouse experiment that examined the effects of species interactions in combination with flooding that mimicked hydrologic gradients found on Mississippi River islands. Specifically, we examined the effects of inter and intra-specific competition and three disturbance treatments (drained, drought, and flood) on the growth performance of three island-ubiquitous herbaceous plant species (Amaranthus palmeri, Cyperus strigosus, and Xanthium strumarium). We predicted a decrease in interspecific competitive effects in disturbance treatments. Specifically, we expected A. palmeri to be most affected by flooding treatment based on its facultative upland status suggesting that it should be a poor tolerator of flooded conditions. X. strumarium and C. strigosus both facultative wetland species in their status, should tolerate flooding, but we predict that C. strigosus should have greater stress tolerance due to its perennial life history. Because we find these species coexisting at the same elevation zones on riverine islands, we also predicted stronger intraspecific competition effects. Our results indicate that disturbance indeed affected competitive interactions, but the effects were species-specific. X. strumarium showed stronger competitive effects when grown with conspecifics while C. strigosus experienced greater competition with heterospecifics under drought treatments. Based on its wetland indicator status and life history characteristics, we expected A. palmeri to exhibit a facilitative effect, as it is typically an upland species, but instead it was impacted most by interspecific competition. Our study indicates that factors other than competition, facilitation, and flood tolerance (e.g., priority effects) may be controlling island plant community dynamics, further studies are required.
90002547|This paper examines how we might test the continuum theory against the community unit theory. Adherence to one or other of these models without testing is simply an assignment of an extreme prior probability to the preferred option. The question can be rephrased to ask whether, for a set of observations, a single model is adequate or whether a mixture of models would be preferable. To judge between them involves first defining the nature of the model(s) to be fitted in each case and then comparing the complexity and quality of fit. Occams razor suggests that we should seek the simplest model with adequate fit. with parameters estimated with optimal precision. The simplest comparison of the two theories thus requires only the estimation of the number of clusters for the chosen mode(s) of within-cluster variation. If a single cluster is of adequate quality then the continuum model is appropriate, while if several are needed then the community model is preferable for that particular dataset. To establish universal applicability of either model involves investigation of many datasets.
90002425|Evenness is generally regarded as the constituent of species diversity which is independent of species richness. The group of most popular evenness indices has recently changed, following the influential work of Smith and Wilson (1996). My first point is to argue that this work failed to define coherently what evenness should be and thus advocated the use of indices of different nature. Instead, I propose to use the Lorenz partial order to choose indices that have a behaviour compatible with it. I then suggest a list of such evenness indices and build four series of new evenness indices. Finally, I discuss the interest of the Lorenz partial order and of the various evenness indices that are compatible with it.
24113558|Prevalence (the presence/absence ratio in the training data) is commonly thought to influence the reliability of the predictions of species distribution models. However, little is known about its precise impact. We studied its effects using a virtual species, avoiding the presence of unaccounted-for effects in the modeling process (false absences, non-explanatory predictors, etc.). We sampled the distribution of the virtual species to obtain several data subsets of varying sample size and prevalence, and then modeled these data subsets using logistic regressions. Our results show that model predictions can be highly accurate over a wide range of sample sizes and prevalence scores, provided that the predictors are truly related to the distribution of the species and the training data are reliable. The effect of sample size becomes apparent for datasets of less than 70 data points, and the effect of prevalence is significant only for datasets with extremely unbalanced samples (<0.01 and >0.99). There is also a strong interaction between sample size and prevalence, indicating that the most negative factor is the sample size of each event (absence and/or presence), and not biased prevalence, as previously thought. We suggest that, in the real world, an interaction must exist between the sample size of each event and the quality of the training data. We discuss that biased prevalences can be a desirable property of the data, instead of a problem to be avoided, also pointing out the importance of using the best absence data possible when modeling the distribution of species of narrow geographic range.
90004007|Food webs inform about both direct trophic interactions (predation and food supply) and implicitly involved, indirect ones (e.g. exploitative competition). Traditionally, direct links between species are considered stronger and more important. However, as a body of experimental results suggests, indirect links may well be able to surpass their effects. In this paper, after shortly summarizing an interesting case study, I propose a simple structural approach to estimate the role of indirect vs. direct effects.
90002581|Vegetation in natural desert and agro-ecosystems was investigated in the middle sector of Egypt. The vegetation was classified by the Two Way Indicator Species Analysis technique (TWINSPAN) into nine vegetational groups representing seven habitat types: desert, fallow land, winter crops of old cultivated land, summer crops of old cultivated land,
90002594|This study was carried out to compare composition, density and diversity of species between dryland and irrigated agroecosystems and between agroecosystems and the marginal grassland ecosystem in dry tropics. Main management characteristics of these ecosystems are: (1) Dryland cropping, low fertilizer input, rainfed (no irrigation) and seed sown rice; (2) Irrigated cropping, high fertilizer, water (irrigation) inputs, flooded rice by transplanting; (3) Grassland, post-rainy season herbage removal and light grazing. All ecosystems showed comparable number (12-14) of species in winter, but in the rainy season higher number of species (21) were recorded in the grassland ecosystem. The species composition of the grassland was entirely different from both agroecosystems (similarity <1%). Dryland and irrigated agroecosystems showed only 25% and 38% similarity with each other during winter and rainy cropping seasons, respectively. Occurrence of few grasses (e.g.,
24113640|SOFM (self-organizing feature map) clustering is powerful in analyzing and solving complicated and non-linear problems. This method was used and compared with fuzzy C-means clustering and TWINSPAN, the most common classification methods, in analysis of plant communities in the Guancen Mts., China. The dataset consisted of importance values of 112 species in 53 quadrats of 10 m  20 m. All the three methods classified the 53 quadrats into eight groups, representing eight associations of vegetation. They were all effective in the analysis of ecological data. The consistency of SOFM clustering with fuzzy C-means clustering (FCM) and TWINSPAN classification was 81.1% and 94.3%, respectively. SOFM clustering has some advantages and more potentiality in application to studies of ecology.
24113539|Relev data (n = 216) from two-pairs of study areas located in the boreal forest of central and northern Alberta (Canada), with their centroids separated by 3.7 of latitude, were analyzed to determine if latitude-related species richness, composition, and abundance differences occurred in the understories of Populus tremuloides forest stands. No difference in study area species richness (P = 0.248) occurred, which included 78 to 105 species (average 94). North compared to south areas had reduced relev, forb, and graminoid richness; greater dominance concentration; and less total, vascular understory, herb, forb, and graminoid canopy cover (P <0.001). Nine herbs (Calamagrostis canadensis, Cornus canadensis, Eurybia conspicua, Fragaria virginiana, Galium boreale, Lathyrus ochroleucus, Mertensia paniculata, Pedicularis labradorica, and Symphyotrichum ciliolatum) and two shrubs (Lonicera involucrata and Vaccinium caespitosum) decreased in abundance (total ~25% cover) from the south to north areas (P <0.001), and were associated ecologically with more open-growing forests and nontreed sites. Latitudinal differences were interpreted to be a response to cooler and slightly drier climatic conditions, and to reduced PAR availability caused by lower angles of solar incidence and the resulting more intensive shading by trees in northern areas. These factors in combination were estimated to reduce PAR to understory plants by at least 20%. Eight vegetation-types were recognized; each mostly limited to one study area. However, a P. tremuloides/Rosa type occurred in both south and north areas. The northern variant contained less Rosa acicularis (21%) and more (6%) Leymus innovatus, Linnaea borealis, and Cornus canadensis cover than southern stands.
24113605|The 'mefa' package contains functions to create and manage objects combining basic faunistic (sample/species/count or cross-tabulated) count data and sample/species attribute tables. Segments within the count data and samples with zero count can be indicated and used in subsequent operations. Reports can be generated in plain text or LaTeX format.
90002490|In this essay. I examine the role of induction in developing vegetation models. Falsification is a necessary component of model building but is not itself sufficient. Induction provides a necessary complement and one that dethrones the null hypothesis from its privileged state. After examining the role of description and environment. I examine several possible criteria useful for valorising models so that we may choose the best. These criteria include fit. simplicity, precision and interest. Predictability, which is given overwhelming importance in a falsification approach, is found to be ambiguous. It may be obtained by using multiple models without regard to the processes active in the real system. In addition movement towards a model which does reflect the real processes can result in loss of predictivity. Finally, some comments are made on what we can infer and how this relates to our understanding of living systems.
24113717|To determine the effect of tree canopy composition on understory species abundance, three-hundred 2 m  2-m quadrats from 30 high-latitude boreal forest stands were sampled. In addition, all trees within a 3 m radius of each quadrat center and  1 m tall were also measured for height, basal diameter, and canopy width (n = 3130). Stands were 33178 years old, with canopies of Populus tremuloides (trembling aspen) and Picea spp. (spruce) in varying proportions. Arctostaphylos uva-ursi, Calamagrostis purpurascens, Chamerion angustifolium, Shepherdia canadensis, and Hylocomium splendens were the most frequent understory species among quadrats. Scatterplots P. tremuloides and individual vascular understory species cover values lacked bivariate trends, but the understory species had distinct maxima that ranged from 20 to 90%. A moderately strong correlation (r = 0.52, P <0.001) occurred between P. tremuloides canopy and total vascular understory plant covers, but weak individual species correlations (r = 0.220.35, P <0.001), suggested understory species variation was primarily determined by factors other than the amount of immediately overhead canopy cover. Canonical correlation analysis (R = 0.82, P <0.001) indicated that greater vascular understory plant cover occurred when forest stands consisted of P. tremuloides with large canopies and large basal diameters, and lacked Picea. Maximum cover for vascular understory species declined when Picea cover exceeded 710%. In combination, P. tremuloides stem densities or a metric based on summed canopy areas converted to a diameter value (canopy-area diameter), and the vertical silhouette area of Picea canopies (canopy profile area), as independent linear regression variables, explained 79% of the variance in total vascular understory plant cover. Several Picea basal areaderived metrics were strongly and positively associated with increasing H. splendens cover, but canopy profile area was more informative. Populus tremuloides canopy area and Picea canopy profile area, as indicators of shading, may be important determinants of vascular understory vegetation abundance in stands where solar radiation enters at angles of up to 52 during the summer.
24113366|The impact of decreasing plant diversity on terrestrial ecosystem productivity remains controversial. Recent studies generally suggest that diverse plant communities are more productive than depauperate versions. However, there is less agreement as to whether this is caused by the number of species present, the identities of the species present, the number of functional groups that these species make up, or by which functional groups are represented. This study evaluates whether relationships between plant diversity and productivity in northern mixed grass prairie are dependent on (a) the diversity measure used (species richness vs. functional richness), (b) the productivity measure utilized, or (c) the scale of observation. We collected plant diversity and productivity information over circular plots of 0.5 m diameter during the summer of 1998, then used a spatially nested sampling design to scale each property and their relationships to 2.5 m, 10 m and 50 m sampling resolutions. Observed diversity-productivity relationships were dependent on all of the above factors. Richness-productivity relationships were found to be mostly asymptotic at all observational scales. The presence of particular species, and functional groups, alone or in combination all had significant effects on productivity at the plot (0.5m) level, but not at coarser resolutions. These results were consistent with those of other studies, and suggest that the higher productivities of diverse grassland plots in our grassland site might result from the effects of diversity and the presence of productive species. The lack of species effects at coarser resolutions suggest other mechanisms are responsible for such relationships at these scales.
24113678|In this study we (1) examined the applicability of the widely available CORINE land cover map of Europe in predicting several components of the richness of forest breeding bird community, and (2) analysed how different ecologically meaningful species groups respond to the differences in landscape composition and how these differences are reflected in the relationships between total species richness and richness of these species groups at the 2.5  2.5 km 2 scale. We found that landscape composition had only moderate success in predicting the richness components of the forest bird community. The predictive power of the applied general linear models differed very much: roughly 60% of the observed variance was explained when the dependent variables (species richness and abundance) were calculated using data of all the 21 studied forest bird species or that of common forest birds. However, species richness and abundance of groups of more vulnerable species were predicted with much less success (30% variance explained), suggesting that CORINE is not an adequate tool in predicting the conservation status of these sensitive forest birds. Forest cover explicated 90 to 100% of the explained variance in the models suggesting that forest bird community was much less sensitive to the type of land cover occuring in the surroundings. We showed that richness and abundance of selected species groups had different non-linear relationships with total species richness, suggesting that  if used alone , total species richness is a weak predictor of other richness components of the forest bird community.
24113499|It is increasingly understood that inventorying and monitoring biodiversity requires a multi-taxon approach and that comparing simple indices, such as species richness, should be accompanied by deeper analyses of species community composition and by comparisons of species life-history traits among taxa and habitats. Here, we document that two ecologically rather similar groups of epigeic predators, ground-dwelling spiders (Araneae) and ground beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae), differ in patterns of stone quarry colonization. Such post-industrial barrens as abandoned quarries are increasingly appreciated as potential refuges for species that are becoming rare in modern landscapes. We compared species richness, community composition and species life-history traits of two epigeic invertebrates groups, in quarries and adjoining seminatural biotopes in a submountain region with granulite and limestone bedrock in SW Czech Republic. For both groups, quarries were species-poorer than seminatural sites, herbaceous biotopes were richer than scrubby and rocky biotopes, and no significant effects on species richness were revealed for substrate. Assemblages colonising quarries differed from those outside of quarries. They contained numerous regionally rarer species of rocks and scree in the case of spiders, but generalists of open landscapes prevailed among ground beetles. A survey limited to ground beetles, as well as to species richness analyses, would fail to detect a conservation potential of the quarries. Hence, a multi-taxa approach should be preferred, and species richness analyses should be assembled by insights onto community composition and species life-history traits in monitoring studies.
90004018|Old-growth forests are declining throughout eastern North America, especially toward the northern limit of the deciduous formation where gently undulating topography and milder climate especially encourage human activity. Remnants exist, but do they retain the defining characteristics of the original vegetation? The objective was tomarshal information required to answer this question, and toward this objective we assessed vegetation in a small 1 ha remnant of maple-beech forest with no history of past logging and compared it to well known and larger old-growth areas in the region. We used Curtiss (1959) Point Quarter method to provide full quantitative data for trees, saplings, shrub and herbs. Size class distribution of trees and successional status of the stand were assessed. As a general conclusion, we found that tree species richness of our remnant was higher than most recognized large old-growth forests and, while the herbaceous understorey was poorer in species than larger tracts, it exhibited three provincially rare species. Furthermore, the successional status and structural complexity of the remnant were typical of old-growth forests. In overall comparative terms, the remnant was found not be an outlier when ordinated with larger forests. It thus is safe to conclude that this remnant constitutes an ecological benchmark well worth protection, despite its limited size.
24113712|The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the dynamics of plant, crustacean, and coleopteran assemblages living in Mediterranean temporary wetlands. We measured assemblage parameters (species richness, diversity and abundance) and succession rates during the hydroperiod for each assemblage analysed. Moreover, the species were classified according to their affinity to the temporary aquatic habitats in order to study if each assemblage had similar patterns among species groups of habitat affinity. Only among plants, the temporary water species were dominant in terms of species richness, diversity or abundance. Cross-taxon congruence between plants and crustaceans, previously reported, was not confirmed when temporal succession was taken into account, suggesting different temporal patterns for the studied taxa. Plants showed the lowest level of successional changes and significant differences between local and regional diversity. In contrast, coleopterans had the highest level of successional changes and a different relationship between local and regional diversity, with regard to the hydroperiod phase. Finally, crustaceans had intermediate levels of successional changes and the relationship between the local and regional diversity during the hydroperiod was dependent on the type of organism (generalist vs. temporary water species). All of this gave evidence of the difficulties to use one taxonomic group in order to elucidate the ecological patterns of other groups.
90002419|This paper presents several indices to describe multivariate diversity and evenness. Multivariate generalizations of the Gini-Simpson index and the Rosenbluth index are proposed tomeasure diversity. A multivariate Gini ratio is also presented to measure evenness. These indices extend the usual univariate measures; they reflect not only the diversity of marginal distributions but also the dependence structure of abundance. The indices fulfill desirable measurement properties and are consistent with certain orderings of multivariate distributions. An order of concentration surfaces and a majorization order are also surveyed shortly.
24113496|We performed a gap analysis of protected area networks in Italy to assess the representativeness of potential natural vegetation (PNV) types of the European Natura 2000 network compared with the National Protected Area network. In this context, the PNV map, reflecting the diversity and spatial arrangement of the natural terrestrial ecosystems, can be considered as an appropriate proxy of environmental and biogeographical diversity of Italy. In this country, 775 protected areas are registered in the Official List of Protected Areas (OLPA), 2281 sites are listed as Sites of Community Interest and 590 as Special Protection Areas, constituting the Natura 2000 network. The adopted conservation target considered that any PNV type included for less than the 10% in the PAs network (OLPA, Natura 2000) was defined as a gap in the system. In particular we defined four categories of PNV protection: any PNV types with a representation of less than 10% in both the OLPA and N2000 was defined as a "total gap" (i.e., under-protected); any PNV type with a representation of less than 10% in either the OLPA or the N2000 was defined as a "partial gap"; any PNV type with a representation of between 10 and 50% in both the OLPA and N2000 was defined as "protected"; lastly, any PNV type w ith a representation of more than 50% in both the OLPA and N2000 was defined as "widely-protected". Digital overlays of PNV and PAs networks were separately performed and statistics produced, indicating the current state of protection of Potential Natural Vegetation types in the two networks (OLPA and Natura 2000). We found that more than 59% of PNV types recognized on the Italian territory is not protected by the OLPA network. On the contrary, regarding Natura 2000 network. 68% of PNV types are protected, accounting for 27% more than OLPA. Compared to the National network of OLPA, the European network Natura 2000 is characterized by a larger percentage of territory in terms of area (18% of the Italian territory for Natura 2000 vs 10% of OLPA) but also by a smaller size of the sites, allowing for a more coherent distribution and efficiency in the protection of habitat remnants ( 68% PNV types protected by Natura 2000 vs 41% by OLPA). The proposed PNV approach can help guiding decisions on where and how to spend scarce conservation management resources.
24113653|Network-based methods are being actively developed to respond to the needs for operational assessments of the degree of landscape connectivity and of the impact of landscape changes in ecological flows and related ecological processes. Among these, a recent paper by Matisziw and Murray (2009) presented the C index as an adequate and advantageous way of ranking habitat patches by their importance for the maintenance of landscape connectivity. We show that this index is equivalent and conveys the same information in undirected graphs as a previously described index, the landscape coincidence probability (LCP), which can be readily computed in any landscape network through the Conefor Sensinode software package. We slightly generalize the LCP definition for cases involving asymmetric dispersal, w hich makes LCP compatible with C and maintains the equivalency between both indices in directed graphs. We place LCP and C in a broader context of other existing indices and ongoing developments and describe how some of these may be better suited for the analysis of the connectivity in landscape networks and their changes. We conclude by highlighting the need (1) to go beyond the identification of unobstructed movement paths or habitat components (sets of interconnected patches) when pursuing the most appropriate landscape connectivity indices and (2) for increased efforts in assessing and reporting the potential overlaps, coincidences and synergies between the available approaches in order to guide the final user and facilitate index selection in a densely populated metric space.
24113709|Sampling effort in pitfall trapping sessions is routinely calculated as a product of trap numbers and time period, expressed in units of trap-days or trap-weeks. This assumes that these two components contribute equally to the catch, so that the catch from 2n traps run for z days should be equivalent to the catch of n traps run for 2z days. We tested this equivalence relationship by comparing two pitfall trapping sessions, representing an identical trapping effort, performed in the same habitat (an apple orchard in Hungary), using the same pitfall trapping arrangement. The Time Series session had 20 traps operating for 20 weeks (400 trap-weeks), while the Spatial Series session had 100 traps operating for 4 weeks (400 trap-weeks). The Time Series session caught 1265 individuals of 44 species, while the Spatial Series session had fewer (757) individuals but 52 species. The virtual structure of the two carabid assemblages was different, although the major species were the same. Rarefaction curves clearly show that the Spatial Series indicated the presence of a significantly more species-rich ground beetle assemblage than the Time Series. The "common currency" for trapping effort needs to be re-examined because its two components, number of traps and length of operation do not contribute to the final catch in the same way. This has an important consequence for the design of biodiversity monitoring: trapping effort allocation for monitoring may be better when the number of traps is at the possible maximum and the time of sampling shortened rather than the other way around.
24113526|Significant transformation of agriculture took place in Central Europe during the second half of the 20th century. The paper reviews the nature and consequences of this process in terms of grassland management and land use changes in the Liptov region (N Slovakia) and their impacts on plant communities of fen meadows (Caricion davallianae, Caricion fuscae), wet meadows (Calthion) and mesophilous grasslands (Arrhenatherion, Cynosurion). We studied in detail the changes in structure of the rare plant community Trollio-Cirsietum (Khn 1937) Oberd. 1957 that occurred between the first period (1974-1983) and the second period (2002-2003). We recorded the decrease in abundance of species characteristic for permanently wet and fen meadows (alliances Calthion and Caricion davallianae) and the increase in abundance of characteristic species of seasonally dried, mesophilous and thermophilous meadows and mesophilous fringes (classes Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, Festuco-Brometea and alliances Molinion caeruleae, Bromion erecti and Trifolion medii). In the second studied period, a large group of mesophilous and thermophilous species appeared as new in this wet-meadow community. A cumulative impact of different factors, especially drainage and intensification of surrounding grasslands as well as abandonment of the community can represent reasons responsible for observed changes. Regardless identified changes, the community still maintains its typical character in significant proportion of the studied sites and hosts a high number of threatened plant species.
24113668|Nematode communities are valuable bioindicators of soil disturbance induced by agricultural practices. We report the results of a short term experiment set on a field previously cultivated with shell beans, where different agricultural practices were applied, namely disinfection with chemicals or organic alternatives (neem, basil, marigold and clove oils). We provide a detailed description of the soil nematode community before and after the application of agricultural practices, in terms of trophic structure, nematode functional indices and diversity. We also employ network analysis techniques to analyze the structure of nematode assemblages on the basis of co-occurrence of genera in samples. Chemical disinfection had a direct lethal effect on all nematode genera reducing or even eliminating their populations, while organic amendments favored only the free living nematodes without affecting plant feeders. These differences were poorly reflected on changes of diversity and even less on those of nematode indices. Network analysis offered significant insights into the structural changes in the web of interactions among nematode genera. The network after chemical disinfection was smaller, poorly connected and almost entirely dependent on the dominant phytoparasite Paratylenchus. In the absence of chemicals, large and more complex networks were formed.
24113638|Artificial grassland plots with various degrees of diversity were established near Heishiding Nature Reserve, Guangdong Province, China. After an establishment phase of one year, one half of each plot was exposed to drought stress in order to explore the relationship between diversity and compositional stability of the grassland communities. The experiment showed that relationships between diversity and compositional stability varied with the diversity values in non-stressed control subplots and the duration of drought disturbance. When control subplots had higher evenness, species richness negatively affected compositional stability, which led to a negative relationship between diversity and compositional stability. When control subplots had lower evenness, compositional stability was determined by evenness or species identity (particular species) at different periods of drought disturbance. This resulted in negative, weakly positive or no relationships between diversity and compositional stability. Based on these results, we suggest that different relationships between diversity and compositional stability, and controversial data from such relationships in previous studies may reflect differences in environmental and experimental conditions.
24113518|Data on soil respiration of three wet meadow ecosystems in the Czech Republic are presented. There were three study sites: two sites with peaty soil, one of them aneutrophic (nitrogen rich) and second of them oligotrophic. Third site was mesotrophic with mineral soil. Soil respiration was measured in situ as CO2 efflux using a Licor 6400 equipped with a soil chamber during the vegetation seasons, since June until October 2006. Soil respiration rates were significantly affected by soil temperature, although they differed among the sites, just as nutrient availability differed on each site. Despite of seasonal variation, the nutrient rich site on organic soil consistently yielded the highest respiration rates, and nutrient poor site yielded the lowest respiration rates. The highest CO2 emissions rates in situ were measured in June, when the soil temperature was 19C. The rates reached up to 10.31 mol CO2 m-2 s-1 at eutrophic site, at peaty oligotrophic site 7.03 mol CO2 m-2 s-1, and 8.38 mol CO2 m-2 at mineral mesotrophic site, respectively. When we used a temperature dependency exponential model to avoid the effect of different soil temperature, the pattern observed in the field was even clearer. The peaty eutrophic soil was more sensitive to temperature then the mineral and peaty oligotrophic soil and C mineralization was more enhanced there.
90002550|Multi-band remotely sensed image data contain information on landscape pattern and temporal changes that are greatly underutilized in this technological era when monitoring of disturbance and ecological dynamics is increasingly important to address questions regarding sustainability of ecosystem health and climate change. Among the reasons for this loss of analytical opportunity are the inadequacy of methods for systematic extraction of pattern elements, incongruity between information paradigms for remote sensing and geographic information systems (GIS), and the sheer volume of remotely sensed image data when acquired regularly over time. Long-term cooperative landscape ecological investigations concerning habitat and change detection in conjunction with remote sensing and GIS have yielded a pattern-based approach to progressively segmenting images (PSI) that culminates in a doubly segmented image representation by sets of approximating signal vectors that serve as parsimonious proxies for pixel vectors.
90002571|The new Dutch forest monitoring network is a policy-guided, multiple-use, GIS-oriented forest monitoring network. It is designed to provide the Dutch government, on a cyclic 8-year basis, with actual information about Dutch forests. Variables that reflect the information needs of policy makers and interest groups were selected by means of interviews and workshops. High-ranking variables are: wood stock, ownership, stand age, management status, biodiversity, carbon stock, and recreational use. These and other variables are being measured in 3622 forest sites, selected according to an unaligned systematic sampling design. The data are stored in an ORACLE data base, made accessible through the internet.
24113497|The implementation of standardised methods for the monitoring of NATURA 2000 sites in Europe is still a key topic in environmental research. Effective, economically priced and, as far as possible, automated applications are required. Rapidly developing sensor technology together with advanced image processing methods offer new possibilities for application of remote sensing data to NATURA 2000 monitoring. The studies presented here combine commonly available GIS data, such as Biotope Type Maps or Forestry Site Maps with remote sensing classifications of the very high spatial resolution (VHSR) QuickBird sensor. Two knowledge-based approaches under inclusion of a priori object-based information are utilised to detect the extent of habitats as well as their quality according to the German NATURA 2000 mapping guidelines. While one method used a segmentation of forested sites in Bavaria (southern Germany), the second technique applied available objects to classify heathland habitats in the Brandenburg Region (northern Germany). The results were subsequently compared, in close cooperation with local environmental authorities, with habitats mapped terrestrially for NATURA 2000 management plans. These results indicate that different remote sensing methods can be a valuable support for terrestrial mapping. Woodland habitats can be detected and specific NATURA 2000 quality parameters (e.g., percentage of natural forest types) are recognisable. In the case of heath-dominated sites, terrestrial mapping can even be replaced by remote sensing of certain habitat types for which it is also possible to obtain adequate measures of quality. Having evaluated the qualify of forest and heathland NATURA 2000 habitats, two general challenges when implementing the guideline regionally could be indicated. Firstly, the very general scope of the Habitats Directive contradicts to specific local protection purposes. Secondly, the protection aims given for NATURA 2000 areas are very static. The Directive could be improved by adapting existing management and conservation strategies to pro-actively respond on likely anthropogenic influences.
24113649|Ponds contribute substantially to the maintenance of regional biodiversity. Despite a growing body of literature on biotic-abiotic relationships in ponds, only few generalizations have been made. The difficulty in identifying the main drivers of pond biodiversity has been typically attributed to the heterogeneity of the local and regional conditions characterizing ponds. However, little is known on how the use of different analytical approaches and community response variables affects the results of analysis of community patterns in ponds. Here, we used a range of methods to model the response of water beetle and plant community data (species richness and composition) to a set of 12 environmental and management variables in 45 farmland ponds. The strength of biotic-abiotic relationships and the contribution of each variable to the overall explained variance in the reduced models varied substantially, for both plants and beetles, depending on the method used to analyze the data. Models of species richness included a lower number of variables and explained a larger amount of variation compared to models of species composition, reflecting the higher complexity characterizing multispecies response matrices. Only two variables were never selected by any of the model, indicative of the heterogeneity characterizing pond ecosystems, while some models failed to select important variables. Based on our findings, we recommend the use of multiple modeling approaches when attempting to identify the principal determinants of biodiversity for each response variable, including at least a non-parametric approach, as well as the use of both species richness and composition as the response variables. The results of this modeling exercise are discussed in relation to their practical use in the formulation of conservation strategies.
24113403|In this paper, we examine possible sources of hierarchical (nested) structure in vegetation data. We then use the Minimum Message length principle to provide a rational means of comparing hierarchical and non-hierarchical clustering. The results indicate that, with the data used, a hierarchical solution was not as efficient as a nonhierarchical one. However, the hierarchical solution seems to provide a more comprehensible solution, separating first isolated types, probably caused from unusual contingent events, then subdividing the more diverse areas before finally subdividing the less diverse. By presenting this in 3 stages, the complexity of the non-hierarchical result is avoided. The result also suggests that a hierarchical analysis may be useful in determining 'homogeneous' areas.
90002488|The species abundance distribution of ecological communities has been represented through several mathematical models, of which the most common are: geometric series, logseries, lognormal, and a type of broken stick, this latter found only in animal communities. There is no consensus on the underlying biological processes, but initial observations on plant communities related these models to equilibrium and high richness (lognormal), stress or disturbance and low richness (logseries and geometric series). Recently the value of these relationships was challenged, and other descriptors were considered better predictors of richness, disturbance and stress. We aimed at investigating how these models and their parameters, as well as dominance and evenness are related with species richness, stress and disturbance in six tropical forest communities, SE Brazil: two well-conserved fragments, two disturbed by fire, and two swampy forests (anoxic stress). The models did not show consistent relationships with richness, disturbance or stress. The parameters and indices of diversity  (logseries) and  (lognormal) varied closely with richness, and the dominance was larger in the communities submitted to stress or disturbance. Our results indicate the need of further studies in order to validate (or refute) the use of abundance distribution models for detection of patterns related to richness, stress or disturbance in tropical arboreal communities. On the other hand, richness and dominance did respond to disturbance and stress.
24113530|Stand and leaf scale responses of loess grassland swards to elevated air CO2 concentration had been investigated in a mini FACE system during 1998-2000. The study concentrated on biomass, leaf area index (LAI) and vegetation surface temperature (stand scale) and on diurnal carbohydrate pattern and gas-exchange responses (leaf scale). Leaf net CO2 uptake under prolonged exposure to elevated CO2 showed an upward response in the dicotyledonous and a downward one in the monocotyledonous species. Dawn and evening carbohydrate levels in leaves suggested growth stimulation of the dicot under elevated CO2 and the opposite for the grass species and indicated sink limitation as a major factor determining photosynthetic acclimation at the species level. The smaller LAI as well as the insignificant biomass response to elevated air CO2 was a compounded response by multi-species stands. Under mild water shortage, elevated air CO2 concentration partly alleviated the drought effect shown by the higher relative growth rate of LAI. Canopy surface temperatures of the vegetation in the CO2 enriched rings were higher than those in the ambient rings suggesting that decreased leaf conductance and transpiration were responsible for the temperature difference between the treatments. Increased canopy surface temperature under elevated air CO2 concentration will probably lead to increased sensible heat flux and therefore enhanced convection at larger spatial scales.
90002363|Connectivity determines a large number of ecological functions of the landscape, including seed and animal dispersal, gene flow and disturbance propagation, and is therefore a key to understanding fluxes of matter and energy within land mosaics. Several approaches to quantifying landscape connectivity are possible. Among these, graph theory may be used to represent a landscape as a series of interconnected patches, where flows occur as a result of structural and/or functional patch connectivity. Within this context, we propose the use of a graph-theoretic index (i.e., the Harary index) as a measure of landscape connectivity. Results derived from the analysis of the vegetation map of Palmarola (central Italy) show that, from a statistical and ecological viewpoint, the Harary index may be a better measure of landscape connectivity than more traditional indices derived from transportation geography.
24113720|The present research deals with the impact of the invasive species Brachypodium genueme in central Apennine meadows. The study compares meadows under different management types (mown versus abandoned). B genuense spread in the abandoned condition alters the ecological status of the site. It lowers soil temperature, moisture and pH, while it increases soil C/N ratio and litter production. In terms of biotic features, phenological analysis indicated that the abandoned condition is less rich in flowering species and individuals in each analysed date. We observed a less affected temporal niche (during the first phase of B. genuense leaf growth) and two strongly influenced phases (in early spring and in correspondence with phases when B. genuense flowers and has full growth of leaves). Functional trait analysis indicated that species with runners, ability to form patches, and late flowering strategies benefit from B. genuense spread, whereas species marked by storage organs, small size, and early flowering strategies benefit in the mown condition. However, it seems that only low frequency species are heavily threatened, while the others can remain inside the plant community by shelter niche occupation.
24113637|Competition and facilitation are expected to leave different signatures in the pattern of species co-occurrence. Competition may result in a given species pair occurring less often than expected by chance, whereas facilitation may result in a given species pair occurring more often than expected by chance. We assessed the co-occurrence of pairs of herbaceous and shrubby species in Brazilian savannas, asking (1) whether a given species pair occurs more often than expected by chance, (2) whether the number of species pairs in sites with frequent fires is higher than expected by chance, (3) whether the difference in the functional traits of heterospecific pairs is lower in sites with frequent fires, and (4) whether small environmental variations in each site  instead of species interactions  could explain the co-occurrence of species. We used null models to answer the first two questions, analyses of variance to answer the third question, and detrended correspondence analyses to answer the fourth question. In all studied sites, approximately half of the heterospecific pairs occurred more often than expected by chance. So, facilitation seems to be important in determining the co-occurrence of some species in Brazilian savannas. However, high fire frequencies changed the pattern of occurrence of the species pairs, resulting in a spatial signature indistinguishable from random. Frequent fires also promoted phenotypic clustering of species. Nevertheless, wherever fire frequency is reduced, competition may lead to phenotypic overdispersion of plant species. Thus, less harsh environmental conditions in savannas may increase the competition among plant species.
24113722|It is shown that a similarity theory (ST) formulated in the context of plant community research can lead to methodological developments based on similarity functions. ST can explain and predict ecosystem states, discover links between the physical-chemical environment and the plant communities at different scales of generalization. ST is compared with fuzzy systems theory, which supports similar developments, and it is concluded that fuzzy set theory could be considered as an extension of similarity theory.
24113462|The importance of accurate species databases is debated in the recent literature of biodiversity assessment, considering that limited resources for conservation could be better allocated to assessment based on cost effective biodiversity features. I aimed to provide an understanding of sampling bias and provide practical advice to minimize bias either before or after data collection. I used 1010 km2 UTM grid data for 121 land snail species to account for geographic and taxonomic sampling bias in Hungary. Sampling intensity corrected for species richness varied significantly among regions, although regions were not good predictors of sampling intensity. Residuals were significantly autocorrelated in 15 km distance, indicating small scale heterogeneity in sampling intensity compared to species richness. Sampling coverage and intensity were higher close to human settlements and sampling intensity was higher within protected areas than outside. Commonness of species was positively associated with sampling intensity, while some rare species were over-repreented in the records. Sampling intensity of microsnails (<3 mm) was significantly lower than that of the more detectable large species (>15 mm). Systematic effects of the collecting methods used in malacological research may be responsible for these differences. Understanding causes of sampling bias may help to reduce its effects in ecological, biogeographical and conservation biological applications, and help to guide future research.
90002364|Tree species richness is remarkably high in many tropical forests, even at very fine spatial scales. However, the study of fine-scale richness is complicated by the rarefaction effect: that is, a trivial correlation between the number of individuals and the number of species. We developed null models to test whether fine-scale species richness differs from random expectation, and applied these models to a dataset of 1170 100m
90004013|This paper presents a procedure for identifying guilds using species-in-stand data. Based on a linguistic analogy relating synonymity with functional equivalence, it develops a dissimilarity coefficient for clustering species which is suitable for measuring strength of synonymity. This coefficient combines two distinct aspects of synonymity - lack of co-occurrence of two species and similarity of context of other species where either species does occur. Synonymity is further restricted through a stand clustering to avoid confounding with environmental heterogeneity. The method is applied to data from
24113535|Facilitation by nurse plants is one of the most commonly reported interactions between plants and is regarded as an important factor in structuring plant communities. We used a meta-analysis to examine the generality of these effects, focusing on cushion plants, a common life-form occurring in high-Andean ecosystems. We targeted the following questions: (1) is there a generalized positive effect of cushions on other vascular plant species along the Andes? (2) do different species groups (i.e., annuals and perennials, natives and exotics) display different association responses to cushions? (3) does the nurse effect of cushions increase with environmental severity? Results indicated that the overall effect of cushions is positive, however these positive effects were more significant amongst exotic plants than in native plants; effects were only positive for perennial plants, and were notably negative for annuals. The positive effects of cushions also increased with physical stress, but only for perennial plants. These results allow us to suggest that as a whole cushions may be acting as keystone species that maintain the structure and diversity of high-Andean plant communities. Nevertheless, since cushions also positively affect the performance of exotic plants, we should be aware of their potential role in promoting biological invasions.
90002566|The detection and evaluation of changes in vegetation patterns is a prerequisite for monitoring programs. The Swiss mire monitoring program aims to assess the changes in mire vegetation in order to examine the efficiency of the management measures. A promising way to explore and detect vegetation structure and vegetation change is the application of predictive vegetation mapping that combines image classification and predictive habitat distribution models. These models deal with predictor variables derived from remotely sensed spectral data and from environmental variables such as a digital surfacemodel (DSM). Low accuracy of environmental data to predict vegetation at the local scale is due to the difficulties to capture dominant fine-scale enironmental gradients. Using high resolution spectral and topographical data sets of 50 cm pixel size and below, the study presented here aims to improve the simulation of local-scale vegetation properties.
24113460|In this paper, 633 species (involving 10 classes, 48 families, 205 genera) collected from the alpine meadow on the eastern Qinghai-Tibet plateau were studied. We tested potential factors affecting variation in mean germination time (MGT), i.e., plant traits (adult longevity, dispersal mode and seed size) or phylogeny, to evaluate if these factors were independent or they had interaction. Nested ANOVA showed that taxonomic membership accounted for the majority of MGT variation (70%), and in the generalized linear model, family membership could explain independently the largest proportion of MGT variation (29%). The strong taxonomic effect suggests that MGT variation within taxonomic membership is constrained. The other plant traits could also explain MGT variation independently (1% by adult longevity and dispersal mode, respectively, and 2% by seed size). Thus, the phylogeny was an important constraint to maintain the stability of species, and we could simplify the question if we regarded the phylogeny as an individual factor, but we could not negate the adaptive significance of the relationship between other plant traits and seed MGT. In addition, a large percentage of the variance remained unexplained by our model, thus important selective factors or parameters may have been left out of this analysis. We suggest that other possible correlates may exist between seed germination time and additional ecological factors (for example, altitude, habitat and post-dispersal predation) or phylogenetic related morphological and physiological seed attributes (e.g., endosperm mass) that were not evaluated in this study.
24113593|Physical supporting or defense structures of plants, which decrease palatability, remain in plant tissue after a plant's death and so decrease detritus decomposition rates. Consequently, palatability and detritus decomposition rate are expected to be positively correlated. Carbon is the main component of these restricting structures, whereas nitrogen is expected to increase plant attractiveness for herbivores. In this study, we tried to confirm the expected positive relationship between palatability and detritus decomposition rate and to find the species functional traits that are responsible for this concordant response. Some traits are shared by species as a consequence of their common phylogenetic history; consequently, we also studied the effect of phylogenetic correction on the expected relationships. We assessed the palatability of meadow plant species to a generalist slug Arion lusitanicus in an aquarium grazing experiment and detritus decomposition rate in a field litter-bag test. The two characteristics are positively correlated and the relationship is strengthened by phylogenetic correction. The relationship was strongest for the decomposition rates during the first three months of exposition, but weakened when the exposition period was from six months to a year. Palatability was negatively affected by plant carbon content, but no relationship was found between plant palatability and nitrogen content. Similarly, only the relationship of litter decomposition with litter carbon content was significant. The regression tree method was used to detect the influence of species traits on species palatability and detritus decomposition rate. In general, leaf dry matter content, litter carbon content and seed weight were chosen as the best predictors of plant palatability response. Results for the detritus decomposition rate response mainly reflect supporting or defensive structure contents. Litter carbon content, seed weight and plant height are the most apparent common predictors of these variable responses. In general, our study confirmed the positive relationship between plant palatability and detritus decomposition. Both plant tissue grazing and detritus decomposition are slowed down by plant tissue supportive structures, manifested as high dry matter content or high tissue carbon content.
90002503|The study examined the vegetation composition and phenotypic traits at five sites, differing in degree of disturbance, in a tropical dry deciduous forest of India. A total of 49 species and 4033 individuals ( 9.6 cm dbh) were enumerated in the cumulative 15-ha permanently protected area. The study revealed that the five sites represented five more or less different communities (species combinations with different dominants). On the basis of phenotypic traits, these communities or sites could not be discriminated, either by proportion of species belonging to different trait categories or by the cumulative importance value of the trait categories. As a result, disturbance did not affect the predominant traits. Evidently, all the communities shared the major phenotypic traits of the dry deciduous forest. Small leaf size, medium leaf texture, rough bark texture and medium deciduousness characterized the dry deciduous forest vegetation. Both the percent of species and importance values were larger for medium or less deciduous trait categories than for highly deciduous trait, representing a trade-off between water loss and the period of dry matter synthesis.
24113631|Many methods of cluster analysis do not explicitly account for correlation between attributes. In this paper we explicitly model any correlation using a single factor within each cluster: i.e., the correlation of atributes within each cluster is adequately described by a single component axis. However, the use of a factor is not required in every cluster. Using a Minimum Message Length criterion, we can determine the number of clusters and also whether the model of any cluster is improved by introducing a factor. The technique allows us to seek clusters which reflect directional changes rather than imposing a zonation constrained by spatial (and implicitly temporal) position. Minimal message length is a means of utilising Okham's Razor in inductive analysis. The 'best' model is that which allows most compression of the data, which results in a minimal message length for the description. Fit to the data is not a sufficient criterion for choosing models because more complicated models will almost always fit better. Minimum message length combines fit to the data with an encoding of the model and provides a Bayesian probability criterion as a means of choosing between models (and classes of model). Applying the analysis to a pollen diagram from Southern Chile, we find that the introduction of factors does not improve the overall quality of the mixture model. The solution without axes in any cluster provides the most parsimonious solution. Examining the cluster with the best case for a factor to be incorporated in its description shows that the attributes highly loaded on the axis represent a contrast of herbaceous vegetation and dominant forests types. This contrast is also found when fitting the entire population, and in this case the factor solution is the preferred model. Overall, the cluster solution without factors is much preferred. Thus, in this case classification is preferred to ordination although more data are desirable to confirm such a conclusion.
90002599|With contemporary emphasis on sustainability and ecosystem-oriented natural resources management, ecological mapping at landscape scales is becoming increasingly important as a framework for environmental planning, monitoring and assessment. This is especially so when the terrain has substantial variability in elevation and steep slopes. Recognizing the importance of hydrology in landscape dynamics, we base an ecological mapping approach on topological features of terrain from a hydrologic and habitat perspective. This approach emphasizes convexities and concavities of topography as
24113625|The impact of disturbance on animal and plant assemblages has been described mainly in terms of aggregate community properties like species richness, abundance, or productivity. However, the question how disturbance acts on species interactions, particularly on patterns of co-occurrence, has received much less attention. Here we use a large pitfall trap sample of spiders from two complexes of lake islands in Northern Poland to show how disturbance by tourist visits affects species richness, composition and co-occurrence. On the pristine and protected islands of Lake Wigry, species co-occurrence was significantly segregated. Further, island species richness and abundances could be predicted from environmental correlates, particularly from island area, soil fertility and humidity. In turn, on the lake islands that are frequently visited by tourists, species co-occurrences were random and environmental correlates other than island area failed to predict species richness and abundances. However, species composition, -, -, and -diversities, as well as average local spider abundances did not significantly differ between both island complexes. Our results show that disturbance disassembles the structure of spider communities prior to visible richness and abundance effects. This result has implications for biological conservation. The detection of community disassembly might be an early sign for factors that act negatively on ecosystem functioning.
90002506|We sought to compare the efficacy of the stationary Markov model and conventional ordination techniques in describing compositional and structural changes in forest communities along natural and manmade spatial gradients at two scales, local and regional. Vegetation abundance and structure data are from six sites spanning a spatial gradient in the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence forests near Sudbury, Ontario, Canada. Ordination did not detect slope-related local gradients despite the general trend that, as distance from the pollution source increases, vegetation along the slopes begins to display Markovian spatial dynamics. We suggest that this is due to information loss resulting from static ordination analyses: information regarding transitions between observations along the natural ordering of quadrats is not maintained. Both ordination techniques and the Markov analyses detected strong regional pollution-induced gradients in abundance and structure.
24113604|Rarefaction has long represented a powerful tool for detecting species richness and its variation across spatial scales. Some authors recently reintroduced the mathematical expression for calculating sample-based rarefaction curves. While some of them did not claim any advances, others presented this formula as a new analytical solution. We provide evidence about formulations of the sample-based rarefaction formula older than those recently proposed in ecological literature.
24113553|The tree canopy characteristics of two broadleaved woods in southern England were quantified in terms of two independent measures of structure, canopy height (calculated using heights  1 m) and percentage canopy cover (derived using heights < 1 m), using airborne Light Detection and Ranging. The woods differed strikingly in structure due to their management systems; one was predominantly mature oak and the other coppice, comprising a patchwork of growth stages. Fine-scale relationships between breeding bird species distributions, determined by mapping censuses, and canopy height and canopy cover were assessed. Despite the differences in structure, species showed great consistency between the woods in their rank positions across gradients of canopy height (rank correlation between woods, r = 0.77, p < 0.001 ) and canopy cover (r = 0.61, p = 0.003). In both woods, and especially the mature oak (R2 > 0.90, p < 0.001), there was a positive correlation across bird species between the mean values of canopy height and canopy cover associated with the mapped locations of each species. We suggest that canopy height acts as an effective surrogate of woodland structure and can be applied as a predictor of woodland bird composition and distribution, at least in lowland British conditions. Species associated with young growth were more restricted by habitat structure, as measured by differences in canopy height and canopy cover between the two woods, than were species associated with taller canopies. Remote sensing of canopy height potentially offers a simple, effective way of assessing habitat availability for many species, at both woodland and landscape scales. This may be especially relevant for species dependent on highly transient vegetation structures associated with the early pre-canopy closure stages of forest growth.
90002580|Subtaxon-to-taxon ratios such as the species-to-genus ratio have been frequently used in ecology and biogeography despite their well-known sample size dependence. For instance, any subtaxon-to-taxon ratio is an increasing function of the area sampled. Hence, its validity as an ecological indicator is problematic at best. This drawback can be avoided by constructing taxon-subtaxon curves. Owing to their scale-free nature, taxon-subtaxon curves standardize the information in subtaxon-to-taxon ratios allowing for meaningful comparison of datasets
90004014|In order to enhance interpretation of two-way contingency tables (cross-classifications) derived from two hierarchical classifications, new indices are suggested to evaluate the relative contribution of nodes in either hierarchy to the nodes or to a partition of groups derived from the other hierarchy. Using these tools, cut-levels in both hierarchies can be found to define optimal partitions, and groups from both partitions can be associated in order to identify their mutual relationships. The method is illustrated with an actual example from vegetation ecology.
24113671|Among other objectives, forest inventories are aimed to identify ecological communities and to correlate community composition with environmental variables. The identification of different communities would require several forest inventories, each covering small sampling areas with relatively homogeneous environmental conditions. The multiple plot sampling method, traditionally used in local inventories of tropical forests, cannot assure such homogeneity, since even small sampling areas would show environmental heterogeneity influencing vegetation. In this paper we assessed the consequences of this heterogeneity for sampling by quantifying the variability of species abundance ranks for species sampled with 10 or more individuals in a set of plots covering a small sampling area. The species reference abundance ranks were obtained from a sample of 100 plots of 10 m  10 m each randomly set in a sampling area of 6.5 ha in a tropical forest fragment (Southeastern Brazil). For each species we used resamplings (30 trials) to obtain the species abundance ranks in sub-samples, considering different sampling intensities (n = 25, 50 and 75 plots), and compared these ranks with the species reference rank (n = 100 plots). Then, we compared the species ranks in sub-samples of 50 plots (10.000 trials) with the reference rank and assessed the frequency and extent of rank displacements. Species rank was highly variable across resampling trials for the sampling intensities of n = 25 and n = 50, but decreased considerable with a sampling intensity of n = 75 plots. The mean rank variability and especially the maximum displacement raised significantly from the seventh most abundant species on, and some species occupied quite discrepant abundance ranks in up to 10% of the 10.000 resampling trials. This high internal variability of forest samples may impair the search for floristic patterns as scale lessens, say, to the meso-scale (1-100 km 2 ). We discussed some possible ways to increase internal homogeneity of tropical forest samples with the multiple plot sampling method. Among these, objective entitation, based on an ancient phytosociological procedure, is suggested as the most appropriate for use on the hilly relieves of the Atlantic forest biome.
24113459|We analysed the role of topography, tree stand characteristics and management on the susceptibility of forest stands to abiotic natural disturbances. In 1996, stands of Brzsny Mts, Hungary were hit by a severe ice storm, then by strong winds three years later. Affected areas were mapped on aerial photos, and we built a GIS database containing variables describing topography and tree stand characteristics. The role of variables in predicting ice break and windfall was investigated by non-parametric statistical tests and by a series of C&RT (Classification and Regression Tree) analyses. Elevation, aspect and slope proved to have strong statistical relationships with the distribution of both ice break and windfall, with misclassification error (MER) of 18% and 15%, respectively, if studied without stand descriptors. Mixing ratio and age of beech were the most important stand descriptors to explain the distribution of ice break (MER=15%), whereas that of windfall was best described by the age and height of the two dominant tree species (MER=11%). The explanatory power could be increased if all variables (topographic + stand descriptors) were considered, though the increase in explanatory power was higher in the case of ice break (MER decreased from 15% to 11%) than for windfall (MER decreased from 11% to 10%). Since management related stand variables (beech mixture ratio, age, height, amount of recently felled stock, slenderness) and susceptibility to disturbance events seemed to be related, our results suggest that the sensitivity of tree stands could be decreased by increasing compositional and structural heterogeneity.
90002480|A pulse-perturbation experiment, designed to assess the impact of top predators, resource availability, and the interaction between predators and resources, was conducted in the inquiline community found in a natural population of the pitcher plant
90002597|Plant community types and botanical composition of herbaceous and woody plants in the Borana lowlands were investigated by multivariate methods (TWINSPAN and DCA) based on 125 plots of size 20 m  20 m sampled from three districts across different functional land use units. By TWINSPAN, eight plant communities were identified: (i)
90002603|Abstract
24113519|Remnants of the former semiarid forest-steppe vegetation of Hungary are suspected to undergo degradation processes because of recent land-use changes. Secondary succession towards closing of the vegetation starts with shrub invasion, mainly with species of the shrub layer of loess steppe oak forest. Soil respiration (SR) activity of the intercanopy loess grassland community was followed occasionally along of six years period, as well as the spatial patterns of SR and soil water content (SWC) with three direct measuring campaigns. Dependence of SR on SWC-soil temperature was statistically significant for the six years period, but the rest of the variance should be explained by other factors, as found for normalized difference vegetation index. In the spatial analysis, significant differences were found in the ranges of semivariograms according to the seasonal variation of soil moisture content. Larger scale patches were found under summer water stress (4 m for SR, 2.6 m for SWC) and autumn senescence (3.8 m for SR, 1.3 m for SWC) periods than under well-watered, peak performance summer circumstances (0.8 m for SR, 0.6 m for SWC). This suggests that homogeneity of patterns is typical at good water supply, while coarse-grained patches prevail under drought stress.
90002616|Different diversity measures of forest floor assemblages were evaluated in order to check if they can be used as indicators of forest naturalness. We compared vascular and bryophyte vegetation of two habitat types in an unman-aged beech-dominated reserve and five managed stands of different ages. We used systematically collected data characterizing four spatial scales obtained by successively aggregating neighbouring quadrats. Species richness did not always differentiate near natural sites from managed sites, and the observed difference depended very much on the spatial scale used. The behaviour of Shannon-Wiener diversity function can only be understood if both the species richness and the evenness components are considered. Near natural plots had high Shannon-Wiener diversity values even at the finest spatial scale not only because of high number of species, but also because of high evenness. We found that a simple measure of pattern diversity  spatial variation of species importance  was the most effective in differentiating the diversity of plots with different levels of naturalness. The absolute values of pattern diversity in the forest floor vegetation were the highest in those plots where the characteristics of important limiting ecological factors were generated by natural disturbance. Vascular and bryophyte species responded differently to tree stand structural characteristics. The diversity of vascular vegetation was determined mainly by the spatial variation of light availability, whereas that of bryophyte vegetation responded to the amount and spatial heterogeneity of appropriate substrates (dead wood, rock). The use of pattern sensitive diversity measures is necessary to reveal diversity-naturalness relationships. We suggest that all diversity descriptors should be calculated for different spatial scales, since their change with spatial scale was as informative as their actual values.
90002593|We examined the composition and spatial structure of the understorey vegetation at two sites with different fire histories in a mature
90002421|Ecological transition zones are believed to be unique in their ability to shed light on the organization of populations and communities. In this paper, we study vegetation dynamics in the Great Plains short-grass steppe and Chihuahuan desert grassland ecotone in New Mexico, USA, using long-term, high resolution transect studies of the Sevilleta Long-Term Ecological Research Program. We focus on spatial pattern and examine this in several ways: patch size distribution, spatial autocorrelation analysis, and fractal scaling. These methods are used to examine patch size distributions in two sites representing distributional limits of the dominant species and for detection of an emergent scaling property. We found no characteristic spatial resolution (quadrat size), but rather a fractal structure of spatial variation in abundance and a trend towards consistency of the pattern in time when species were closer to their distributional limit. In this, we were able to detect a robust power law behaviour (the emergent property), indicating strong spatial organization via anti-persistence. Our investigation was exploratory in nature; we feel the results are highly suggestive of intrinsic organization in ecological dynamics and may also be useful in generating testable hypotheses regarding the behaviour of species along ecotones.
24113554|Bees are the most important pollinators in Europe. We studied bee assemblages on 7 pairs of extensively and intensively grazed sites in three lowland grassland types in Hungary. No chemicals were applied on the grasslands. The bees were collected using sweep net surveys and 1 m wide transect surveys in 2003. We mapped land-use types (grasslands; arable fields; forests; built-up areas; marshy habitat and open water) based on aerial photographs within a 500 m radius of each study site. We captured 483 individuals of 124 Apoidea species in total. This shows very diverse and species rich bee assemblages in these semi-natural grassland areas. Both diversity and percentage of rare species were the highest on the Kiskunsg alkali area. The dominance of honey bee (Apis mellifera) was very low at each site. Neither species richness nor abundances differed between extensively and intensively grazed sampling sites, among regions, and between edge and interior of sites. However, both species richness and abundance of bees correlated positively with species richness and cover of flowering plants, indicating the important role of food sources. From the landscape parameters wet areas were preferred by small species, while large species tended to avoid build-up areas.
24113547|The influence of elevation and vegetation characteristics on the spatial pattern of an epigeic true bug assemblage was investigated along a transect in a sandy grassland of Kiskunsg. A 55 m long transect through wind grooves and dune tops, perpendicular to the vegetation borders was established. Both the moving split window technique and the ordination method revealed that dune top habitat has a distinct Heteroptera assemblage. This sand dune habitat was characterized by the most abundant Heteroptera species. We did not observe a distinct true bug assemblage in the wind groove habitat. Canonical correspondence analysis and multiple linear regressions showed that the relative altitude had a greater effect on the distribution of true bugs than vegetation cover and plant species richness.
90002424|I use prospects to connote the continuing subversion of the environment. Expectations refer to what I think Statistics should be making of itself in the era of global change science. I develop thoughts on these in three main sections. In the first, I recount up-to-date information about global warming. This topic is intriguing to me, since global warming is potentially the most subversive environmental process, appears least preventable, and as such, most deserving to be a focal point in ecological study scenarios. In the second section, I discuss briefly the ecological agenda and the implications therein for definition of the sampling environment. The third and last large section explains how I think of what should constitute an applicable statistical dialect for users in global change science. I detail the basic principles, enumerate choices, and deal with other bare necessities upon which such a Statistics should be founded.
24113628|It is widely reported that the productivity-richness relation (PRR) is highly variable, and several field studies suggest that the PRR varies with observational scale. Here we provide the first experimental study to test whether the PRR is scale-dependent when all replicate ecosystems have similar initial conditions. We also test the relation between productivity and compositional dissimilarity, and whether the PRR varies with ecosystem size. Moderately complex replicated microcosms were assembled consisting of a range of protozoa, algae, and a diverse bacterial flora. We found that the PRR of protozoan and algal communities varied with observational scale, but was unrelated to ecosystem size. Specifically, protozoan and algal richness increased monotonically with productivity at the local scale, but became flattened at the regional scale. This varying PRR at different scales occurred because dissimilarity among replicates decreased with productivity. Thus, in this model system, our experimental approach found a different form of scale dependence than previous field research. We speculate that this difference results from different processes governing extinctions at low levels of productivity.
24113365|Definitions of seed banks are discussed in the introductory part of the paper. In the second part, a literature review regarding sampling problems in soil seed bank ecology is presented. Regarding sampling depth, a rapid decline in soil seed content is demonstrated from example studies. The use of soil cores with 5 cm or 10 cm depth is suggested to ensure comparability of results. For determination of optimal sample volumes for various communities, the species saturation model is suggested such that "minimal volume" can be defined for soil seed banks in the same way that "minimal area" can be defined in phytosociological studies. Although sampling time may depend on research goals for vegetation types with a winter standstill period, late autumn sampling is suggested for detecting the entire soil seed bank, whilst late spring sampling is recommended for the examination of its persistent part. Studies looking at medium (plant community level) and fine scales (patch level) have demonstrated that soil seed bank distributions show horizontal aggregation for most of the cases and for most of the species. Seed dispersal processes which are among major factors responsible for such aggregated patterns are also discussed.
90002548|Quantifying and documenting succession has been a challenge to ecologists for many years. A variety of measures have been generated but do not seem to have been widely adopted. We propose the use of an intuitive and quantifiable measure that is amenable to both model building and hypothesis testing, and apply the method to a long-term, ongoing succession project in southeastern Ontario. We compare our measure with turnover rate (Diamond 1969) and lambda (Shugart and Hett 1973). We found that although these measures can determine when change within the community is occurring, the nature of this change and the resultant composition of the community is not readily gleaned from the measure. Our measure, by grouping plants as either early or late, allows the relative composition of the community to be understood with a single number. The benefit of using an aggregate measure such as ours, is that a variety of questions can be examined, such as when will a community revert to its original composition following fire? As an example, we utilized our measure on a post-fire succession data set from northern Montana. The results estimate that sites will take anywhere from 3 to 100 years to return to their pre-fire composition, based on current environmental conditions.
90002422|One possible explanation of variation in vegetation is based on the variable Poisson model. In this model, species occurrence is presumed to follow a Poisson distribution, but the value of the Poisson parameter for any species varies from point to point, as a result of environmental variation. As an extreme, this includes dividing the given habitat into areas favourable to a community and areas which are unfavourable, or at least not occupied. The spatial area can then be viewed as a series of patches within which each species follows a Poisson distribution, although different patchesmay have different values for the Poisson parameter for any particular species.
24113629|Seed dispersal is a limiting factor in the maintenance and distribution of plant communities, especially in rainforest ecosystems where a major proportion of plant species are dispersed by animals. Knowledge of seed removal by terrestrial mammals (particularly small mammals) in Araucaria forest patches scattered in Campos grassland is relatively sparse. In this study, we assessed: (1) whether the removal rate of Araucaria angustifolia seeds differs in different successional stages of Araucaria forest advancing over grassland, and (2) the importance of small mammals and others vertebrates for seed removal rates in each environment type. We used seed removal experiments and camera trapping to answer these questions. Our results showed that seed removal was higher in more-forested sites than in open ones and in control treatment in 2006, we found an interaction between successional stage and treatment in 2007 and, in 2008, only treatments differed significantly. Our photographic records were mostly of small cricetid rodents. Seed-removal increment as a function of forested area suggests increased use of these sites by terrestrial mammals as patches develop in grassland. The use of large patches by mammals may increase the probability of mammal-dispersed plants colonizing patches as they attain a given structural development, which might determine to some degree the future patch nucleation dynamics.
90002600|Allelopathic effects of
90002471|Several different stochastic models of niche apportionment have been proposed to explain the structure of species relative abundance patterns within communities. Here I deal with the converse issue, i.e., whether it is possible to infer past niche apportionment processes from current relative abundance patterns.
24113536|In two arid/semiarid regions, we studied diversity of algae in lakes and pools with salinity ranging from 0.1 up to 39. In plankton and periphyton of 34 lakes in northern Kazakhstan, we found 252 species belonging to 113 genera of 8 algal divisions. In 24 pools with experimental salinity ranges in the Negev desert of Israel, we recorded 86 species from 47 genera of 6 algal divisions. The dominant groups of both arid regions are represented by widespread species of diatoms, green algae, and cyanobacteria in similar proportions. Alkaliphiles among the indicators of acidification and betamesosaprobionts among the indicators of saprobity prominently prevail in both regions. The indices of saprobity in lakes (1.48-2.7) and in pools (0.75-2.18) reflect a low-trophic loading. Oligohalobes-indifferents are most common in both arid regions. Cluster analysis based on data containing 420 species revealed 9 clusters, of which the highly diverse communities of low mineralized lakes and pools and the low diversity communities of highly-mineralized lakes and pools are separated at the highest dissimilarity level. CCA analysis revealed correlation of the algal species diversity preferences with salinity level in lakes in Kazakhstan and in pools of Israel, which are more impacted by arid factors. These results point to mineralization being the most important variable defining the diversity levels irrespective of the type and location of reservoirs in the arid regions.
90002602|Understanding the relationship between the distribution of organisms and their environment is important for regional conservation planning. While most herpetofaunal community studies address environmental influence on species
90002562|A cell-grid method was used to survey seasonal changes in four herbaceous communities of a wooded pasture. Permanent plots consisted in 1-m
90004015|A study conducted to determine the ecological status of vegetation under a
24113351|The paper evaluates spatial autocorrelation structure in grassland vegetation at the community level. We address the following main issues: 1) How quadrat size affects the measurement of spatial autocorrelation for presence/absence and cover data? 2) What is the relationship between spatial autocorrelation and classification? 3) Is there a temporal change of spatial autocorrelation in the vegetation studied? We found that multivariate variogram shape, variance explained and the sill are different for presence/absence data and cover data, whereas quadrat size increases apparently introduce a stabilizing effect for both. Spatial stationarity is detected for species presence, and non-stationarity for cover. A new graphical tool, the clusterogram is introduced to examine spatial dependence of classification at various numbers of clusters. We found that spatial autocorrelation plays a crucial role in the classification of vegetation and therefore we suggest that its effect should not be removed from clustering. Mutual interpretation of variogram and clusterogram shape may be informative on the number of meaningful clusters present in the data. Spatial autocorrelation structure did not change markedly after 23 years for presence/absence data, indicating that the vegetation of the study area is stationary in time as well. The present study demonstrates that traditional quadrat data are suitable for evaluating spatial autocorrelation, even though field coordinates are recorded several years after sampling is completed.
24113635|Five distinct habitats along salinity gradient were explored for plant ecological attributes including soil plant interaction, vegetation composition and species distribution in the Cholistan desert. Higher saline sites supported Sporobolus ioclados with Aeluropus lagopoides, Cymbopogon jwarancusa, Ochthochloa compressa, Haloxylon recurvum and Suaeda fruticosa, whereas moderately saline habitats supported predominantly Fagonia indica, C. jwarancusa and O. compressa. The community structure and composition of each habitat type were very specific, the most dominant component being S. ioclados. Each species has very specific relation to different environmental variables, and this reflects the habitat status, ecological adaptations and stress tolerance degree of the individual species. On the whole, it can be concluded that salinity alone was not responsible for the distribution of species at salt affected habitats.
24113504|Agricultural management is a major driver of changes in floral and faunal species richness of anthropogenic landscapes. Counteracting the negative impact of industrialized agriculture by providing subsidies to farmers for environmentally friendly agricultural practices, agri-environmental schemes (AES) are the most important policy instruments to protect European biodiversity in agricultural landscapes. However, as they are rarely cost-effective, there is an urgent need for evaluation and improvement. To assess the environmental effects of the Austrian AES, we mapped landscapes and vascular plants in 1998 and 2003 and birds in 2003. The sampling areas were located in the three most important types of Austrian agricultural landscape, i.e., grassland in alpine valleys and basins, mixed agriculture in mountain areas, and eastern arable land. We investigated the agri-environmental measures (AEMs) in a parcel-wise manner and analyzed their effects on landscape values and biodiversity. Reduction of agrochemicals showed positive effects on biodiversity of vascular plants in grassland and birds in arable land. Targeted measures that directly address threatened species were most effective, but had much less coverage. Contradicting developments became apparent for landscape structure and ecological infrastructures, but effects of the AES were generally larger in simple than in complex landscapes. We conclude that AEMs are currently not targeted enough to effectively halt biodiversity losses, and recommend better regionalization by offering landscape-context specific measures, stronger focus on maintenance and improvement of landscape diversity, avoidance of counterproductive development, and improvement of the coverage of specific conservation measures.
90002583|We examined the environmental factors associated with community structure in the inquiline communities of the purple pitcher plant (
24113673|Ecological theory predicts that the species composition of island habitats is, among others, shaped by the mass effect of nearby ill-adapted populations, but this has rarely been tested. We investigated small calcareous spring fens scattered within species-rich grasslands in a region in which particular locations differ in climatic and edaphic conditions. Fens in colder, moister and less calcareous north-eastern (NE) locations harboured more plant species from surrounding grasslands and displayed higher similarity with the surroundings than the fens in warmer, drier and more calcareous south-western (SW) locations. Fen species richness correlated significantly with surrounding species richness in the NE locations, whereas no correlation was found for the SW locations. Fens in SW locations are characterized by both intense tufa formation, which creates extreme ecological conditions, and the contrasting environmental conditions compared to surrounding grasslands. We demonstrated that the mass effect does not always significantly shape the species composition of island habitats and that the landscape species pool may not influence extreme habitats. This finding accords with the Intermediate difference hypothesis, which predicts a unimodal relationship between the strength of the spatial mass effect and the ecological similarity between neighbouring plots, and could be utilized in the selection of model habitats for exploring large-scale ecological phenomena without the possibly confounding spatial mass effects.
24113645|Biome interfaces are expected to exhibit chorological symmetry, i.e., decreasing trends in the number of species associated with each of the two neighbouring biomes as we progress from one into the other. Our aim was to test for such a pattern within the forest steppe biome, which is a transition zone in itself between the temperate deciduous forests and the steppe biome. Presence of chorological symmetry would provide indirect evidence for the prehuman presence of zonal steppes in the Carpathian basin. We also whished to provide an example with this analysis for drawing biogeographical conclusions based on quantitative species occurrence data, an information source hitherto neglected in Central Europe. Occurrence patterns of forest and steppe species were analysed at the Duna-Tisza kze (Danube-Tisza Interfluve) by the traditional qualitative biogeographic method and by hierarchical classification of predicted spatial pattern based on Generalized Linear Models with logistic link function. Species presences were explained by variables describing spatial orientation. In this approach, an outgroup of sand grassland species was also added to characetrise the discrimination ability of the approach. The quantitative method discriminated the outgroup of sand grassland species, providing evidence of its suitability for our purpose. The results of the quantitative investigations were also in accordance with the qualitative evaluation. Surprisingly, forest and steppe species showed similar distributional patterns, i.e., no chorological symmetry was discernable. The quantitative biogeographic approach unveiled important evidence for deciding about the potential presence of zonal steppes in the Carpathian basin. Although the observed similarity of the distribution of forest and steppe species may have multiple reasons, the major cause of the lack of chorological symmetry is most probably the lack of zonal steppe South of the forest steppe biome in the Carpathian basin. Additional explanations include land use pattern and the mountain belt around the basin acting as a refugium in the ice ages.
90002585|A mosaic of Campos grassland and
90002354|Vegetation dynamics is a stochastic process of species replacement after disturbance. It occurs because individual species are limited by general constraints and trade-offs. As these constraints and trade-offs are becoming better known, we understand more about the relationships between disturbance dynamics, species pools, and vegetation dynamics. This paper provides a summary of recent work on plant scaling and ecological trade-offs, and explores its implications for vegetation dynamics. Those aspects of succession that are predictable  given the local species complement  can be understood as consequences of these general patterns and constraints. Several are explored in this paper. The inherently stochastic nature of the process derives from the disturbance dynamics that forces it, from the sampling processes that are responsible for selecting potential invaders, and from the chance processes involved in species interactions. The dynamics of species that invade established communities is the least understood but potentially the most crucial aspect of vegetation dynamics. The relation of community invasion to gap creation and to scaling constraints is briefly discussed.
90002498|The relationship between productivity and species diversity was investigated at the quadrat level for three old-field plant communities that varied in time since the last major disturbance from cultivation. A positive relationship between productivity (estimated by above-ground dry biomass) and the species richness component of diversity was detected only for quadrats from the most recently disturbed community. The communities that experienced longer post-disturbance time showed no significant relationship between productivity and species richness. Quadrat productivity, however, was negatively related to the species evenness component of diversity in all three communities, i.e., regardless of time since disturbance. Furthermore, analyses of covariance using log biomass, species richness and species evenness as response variables, log soil nitrate concentration as a covariate and time since disturbance as a factor revealed that residual log biomass was significantly negatively correlated with residual species evenness, but was not significantly correlated with residual species richness. These results support the view that the productivity of plots within natural vegetation is related more predictably to the relative composition of species (reflected by evenness) than to the number of species present, especially as succession progresses.
90002614|We propose a method that has general relevance to the digital representation of spatial variation of multivariate landscape data. It is based on the average similarity that operational geographic units (OGU) have with the adjacent ones according to characters relevant understanding landscape patterns and dynamics. The method is flexible and easily executable within the technological framework of geographic information systems (GIS) that today is available even free of charge or at very low cost. An example shows how the method, applied to spatial data of a floristic project for the urban area of Trieste (NE-Italy), can identify floristically homogeneous patches and can quantify the heterogeneity of the transition zones between such patches.
90002470|In this paper we examine the impact of runnelling on the vegetation of a salt marsh. Runnelling is a form of habitat modification used for mosquito control in Australia. Defining the states of the system through unsupervised clustering of vegetation records using the minimum message length principle, 11 states (or classes) were identified. The runnelled sites have a greater diversity of states present than the unrunnelled ones. The states at each time for each site were then used to develop transition matrices. From these, two different pathways were identified, indicating the patterns of change. The method of showing changes relied on pictures that represent average species size and density. Both the two main pathways of change started with the dominant grass (
24113602|Breeding bird communities were studied by line-transect in burnt pinewood and unburnt pinewoods, during three years subsequently to a fire event, in a coastal woodland of Mediterranean central Italy. We analyzed data following a diversity/dominance approach that ranks the species in order of their abundance, to obtain rank/abundance diagrams ('Whittaker plots'). Although it is generally accepted that fire may induce structural changes in forest communities of breeding birds, we observed more evident effects when considering the assemblage of forest-specialist species. When considering the whole community of birds, ordinate intercepts of the regression between rank and relative abundance of species were not significantly different between unburnt and burnt plots in any of the three years of study. However, when considering only the forest-related species, there was a significant difference between unburnt and burnt plots in all the years of study. Evenness showed lower values that were explicited by the diversity/dominance diagrams (lower collocation of the curves of burnt pinewoods if compared to unburnt ones). Overall, the patterns observed in this study suggest that the effects of fire disturbance were more evident at the ecological level than at the taxonomic-level assemblages. The gradual decline of the more sensitive species due to fires and the proportional increase of edge/generalist species may induce a species turnover in burnt woods with cascade and relaxation effects which could be evidenced by diversity/dominance diagrams. Consequently, it is useful to separate the effects of fires at community-level and at assemblage-level when studying bird communities in areas subjected to fires.
90002587|The relationship between plant communities and elevation in the Guandi mountainous area was studied. Data from 89 sampling units, each of 10 m x 20 m size, taken along an elevation gradient were analyzed by TWINSPAN, DECORANA and diversity and evenness indices. The samples were clustered into 23 groups by TWINSPAN, representing 23 vegetation types. The composition and distribution of communities varied greatly along the altitude gradient, suggesting that community diversity is closely related to elevation in the Guandi Mountains. This is due to the change of temperature and water-conditions along the elevation gradient. Species heterogeneity and evenness were significantly correlated with elevation along the entire gradient, but showing first a trend of increases and then decreases, corresponding to the hypothesis of maximum diversity at medium elevation. Species richness varied greatly in the study area, and was not significantly correlated with elevation.
24113598|A considerable amount of research has been conducted on the influence of landform features on the distribution of vegetation on floodplains of major rivers. Considerably less work has examined this relationship along smaller channels in mountainous terrain. We utilized multivariate statistical techniques to examine the relationship between landform types and riparian plant floristics along small streams at the Cedar River Municipal Watershed in western Washington, USA. Riparian geomorphic surfaces were assigned to one of four landform classes based on topographic characteristics and position relative to the stream channel: low floodplain, high floodplain, terrace and hillslope. Landform exerted a strong influence on the distribution of tree, shrub and understory plant species. Certain taxa were found only on one or two of the landforms. Other species displayed a gradient in abundance across landforms. No single species occupied all landforms at the same level of abundance. The distribution patterns of species among the landforms suggested that primary drivers in the organization of the plant communities were moisture and susceptibility to disturbance. Plants preferring high moisture levels and resistant to the effects of fluvial disturbance typically were found on the floodplain landforms. Communities with hardwood-dominated overstories and dense shrub understories were prevalent on these sites. Slopes and terraces supported species able to cope with drier conditions and those unable to persist with frequent disturbance. Conifers were prevalent only on these drier, infrequently-disturbed landforms. These results indicate that restoration measures to increase the presence of conifer trees in riparian areas, a common activity in the Pacific Northwest, should be applied only on landforms that would naturally support these species.
90002553|The paper deals with two bee species collecting nectar from two plant species. It is assumed that the nectar stock is reduced but not exhausted by the nectar collection, each individual's pay-off depends linearly on its own foraging strategy (i.e., on the probability of a visit to a plant species) and on the average strategies of both species. For the corresponding matrix game model, it is shown that evolutionary stability of a totally mixed equilibrium foraging strategy pair is only determined by the efficiency parameters of nectar collection. The latter parameters depend on morphological characteristics of all involved species, determined by the long-term evolutionary processes. The evolutionary stable foraging strategy is locally asymptotically stable with respect to the corresponding replicator dynamics.
24113633|This paper demonstrates a possible application of large historical vegetation data sets as reference to reveal natural trends. Phytosociological relevs re-sampled after 3-6 decades were used to detect and interpret long-term plant compositional changes of seven rock grassland communities in Hungary. Altogether 151 re-established plots were subject of the study. Data analyses were designed to minimize the negative effects arising from the application of historical information. Principal coordinates analysis was used to discover general compositional changes. With the help of ecological indicator values and species attributes, vegetation state trends were evaluated. Principal coordinates analysis reveals a uniform displacement of plot averages in the ordination space. Ecological indicator values for nitrogen requirement of vascular plants show a significant increase in mesotrophic categories. Occurrences of species typical of rock grasslands decreased significantly. Natural pioneers, disturbance-tolerant and weed species increased in number. Nevertheless, their amount is relatively low and the natural constituents of the communities still dominate, which is a sign of only a minor disturbance. Considering the wide geographical distribution of the sample plots, general changes seem to indicate pressures operating at large scales. These include elevated nitrogen deposition, increased rates of erosion and trampling caused by overpopulated ungulates and more frequent summer drought events. Acidification only occurs in silicate grasslands as calcareous soil types have higher buffering capacities. The global tendency of biotic homogenisation with the increase of common species was also detected over time. The study showed that the use of historical vegetation data enables us to estimate long-term trends in vegetation state.
24113600|Scepticism largely deflated, and the denial machine's intent to mislead unmasked, climate warming owing to anthropic carbon emission is now seen by most as an ongoing process. When compared to the historic rates, the predicted warming rate and concomitant rates of biotic response should be considered simply colossal. This is the point about which the present paper gives insight based on numerical analyses. The Vostok temperature series, its different transforms, and palynological spectra from global sites are the basic data. These are marshalled in support of the paper's main proposition that the thermal effect on the vegetation depends not only on the rate of troposphere warming or cooling, but very much on the velocity of onset and length of duration. The main text begins with a definition of terms, followed by a short essay tracing how the conceptualisation of the climate warming paradigm evolved from initial scepticism to acceptance as a reality. The technical sections treat the conversion problem from Vostok inversion-layer temperature differences to global mean rates. It offers frequency distributions for historic warming/cooling rates, and explains the latitude dependence of the translation of the rates into local thermal flux. Presentation of examples of historic thermal events and the effect on the global vegetation close the main text. Statistical analyses are involved based on a novel methodology. The methods are concerned with formation migration rates, metrics of compositional transition velocity and acceleration, long-term variation in the representation of specific taxa in palynological spectra, taxon traits and taxon plasticity, and hotspots detection in compositional transitions. The palynological data are examined in synchrony with historic trends in the troposphere's Late Quaternary temperature history. Owing to the broad topical contents, the paper adapts a modular structure of presentation which requires the evaluation and interpretation of the results where they are presented. An overview is given at the end with emphasis on the general trends.
90002584|We investigated how cluster analysis and diversity-ordering can be used for the classification of geographically and historically distinct plant and insect communities. The study sites include fens and
24113358|Disturbance is considered one of the main factors influencing plant species composition and diversity. We conducted a field study to address the plant community response in a coastal marsh to a major disturbance. In 1992, muskrats (Ondatra zibethicus L.) completely removed vegetation within a 450 ha area of intermediate coastal marsh in Texas, USA. We used vegetation data collected prior to the disturbance (1989-1991) as a baseline for comparison to that recorded annually for a decade ( 1992-2002) following the disturbance. We compared species diversity, richness, relative abundance, evenness, and species similarity between pre and postdisturbance periods to evaluate the temporal response of the disturbed plant community. Plant diversity in the study area returned to predisturbance levels after 10 years. Species diversity in the study area had two peaks following the main disturbance. These peaks are associated with fluctuations of the water levels in the area. Our results suggest that it is possible to control the sedge or grass dominance in a community by subjecting the area to a carefully timed willful disturbance (e.g., grazing or fluctuating water levels) to achieve management goals. However, vegetation composition in the area changed from a grass-dominated (predisturbance) to sedge-dominated (postdisturbance) community. At the conclusion of sampling in 2002, plant species abundance, evenness, dominance, and richness conditions reached levels similar to predisturbance. However, the species composition after a decade postdisturbance differed from that during the predisturbance period. Therefore, even though we are able to predict the return of species diversity, evenness, and richness of a community after a period following disturbance, the actual species composition of an intermediate marsh following recovery is difficult to determine accurately, as it is contingent on several biotic and abiotic conditions that prevail while the system recovers from disturbance.
24113527|The relationship between some soil physical-chemical characteristics, with more focus on the types of salt-specific anions and the colonisation parameters of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) were examined on the most dominant halophytes, grown at four saline soils in Hungary. At site Z (Zm) mainly the chloride, at site Ny (Nyrlapos) mainly the sulphate ions dominated in the soil samples, while at site A (Apajpuszta) and site Zsz (Zabszk) the carbonate anions were the most frequent. A large colonisation variability of the AM fungi were found in the four saline sites and the studied halophytes. Among the affecting soil-plant factors a strong host dependency was recorded with almost no mycorrhiza colonisation on Puccinellia limosa and the highest values at the Plantago maritima and Aster tripolium. As a function of the salt-levels a relative location of the halophytes could be found at each sites. The AMF colonisation intensity (M%) and functioning, measured as arbusculum richness (A%) was reduced with the overall increasing salinity, more particularly with the total cation-content of the soils. The deleterious effect of some other abiotic factors, i.e., the very poor or rich nutrient availability and the humus accumulation tended to be also negatively correlated by the mycorrhizal parameters.
90002611|Competing species often coexist, but the mechanisms allowing long-term coexistence are rarely tested via direct experimental manipulation. We experimentally tested the mechanisms of coexistence in a classic model system, laboratory microcosms in which two species of ciliate protists competed for bacteria. Previous work shows that the species used here compete for bacteria, but can coexist despite large differences in grazing ability. We tested three hypotheses that might explain this surprising coexistence: resource partitioning, chemically-mediated interference competition, and differential use of space. To test for resource partitioning, we conducted an experiment testing the effects of bacterial species richness and composition on the long-term outcome of competition. Manipulating bacterial diversity and composition alters the scope for resource partitioning. Despite strong evidence for differential resource use (e.g., the two ciliates shifted bacterial species composition in different ways), initial bacterial richness and composition did not affect the long-term outcome of competition. Remarkably, the competitive outcome was unchanged even when ciliates competed for a single bacterial species, indicating that the observed resource partitioning is irrelevant to the competitive outcome. In further experiments, we ruled out differential space use and chemically-mediated interference competition as explanations for this surprising coexistence. Coexistence of ciliates on a single bacterial species might reflect partitioning of intraspecific bacterial diversity, and/or osmotrophy or consumption of particulate detritus by the weaker competitor. The results show that this classic model system is not as well-understood as had been previously thought. More broadly, the results dramatically illustrate that merely observing niche differences between coexisting species is no evidence that those differences are either necessary or sufficient for long-term coexistence.
90002426|A geographical region, containing an unknown number of species, is partitioned into
90002555|It is examined whether caddisfly assemblages collected by light trapping are influenced by altitude. From twenty-nine sites, a total of 29 seasons catches were obtained in 1995. The total number of caddisfly species collected was 53, and the number of individuals caught was 11,128. As a result of non-metric multidimensional scaling based on quantitative data, two groups of caddisfly assemblages could be distinguished: those collected in lowland (sites under 150 m a.s.l.) and the others from highland habitats (sites above 150 m a.s.l.). The indicator value method found assemblages and species most characteristic of the two kinds of habitats.
90002564|A method is presented and discussed that minimises uncertainties in change analysis of sequential vegetation maps due tot subjectivity in boundary interpretation. This previous boundary method is based upon the concept of map changes, which implies that sequential maps are not made independently but are based upon a previous map: only changes in the old maps boundaries (both in space and vegetation typology) are interpreted. It was shown that themap changes concept increased the reliability of change analysis results in a coastal salt marsh in the Netherlands. The method may be applied easily in other studies in which photo-interpretation is used for monitoring purposes. The method is especially recommended in low dynamic areas, where slow changes in vegetation patterns take place and the effects of photo-interpretation uncertainty are relatively high.
24113523|Grassland ecosystems in the Carpathian Basin may be particularly vulnerable to current and predicted changes in precipitation, and ecosystem responses to potential effects of water are not well understood. To examine how water addition can affect the species composition and structure, and CO2-flux of a Central European natural steppe plant community, grassland monoliths were irrigated for three consecutive years at Gdll, from 2002 through 2004. The loess grassland studied by ex situ is a characteristic plant association of Hungary and similar vegetation can be found in other temperate regions. The treatment consisted of spray irrigation during night-time only in the growing season as well as aboveground biomass removal twice per year. Interannual and intraannual dynamics of species richness, Shannon Diversity, percentage cover, and different functional groups (monocots/dicots; plant life forms; social behaviour types; C4/C3 plants), and Net Ecosystem CO2 Exchange in treated and untreated permanent plots, were studied simultaneously. To measure NEE and water vapour at stand level a self-developed, portable, non-destructive open chamber system (d=60cm) was used. The majority of the examined parameters varied considerably among years at both irrigated and control, but concerning carbon fluxes water addition effects were evident in dry periods only. At the treated plots, in general species richness, Shannon Diversity, the number of plant life forms and social behaviour types, the ratio of dicots and C4 plants declined with addition of water. Our study proved that decline in species richness and Shannon diversity is not necessarily followed by the reduction of stand physiological (synphysiological) processes.
90002468|When working with raw data for multiple environmental indicators, it can be difficult to assess quality or health because of the large number of indicators and inconsistencies among the indicators. By grouping the raw data into rankings, the data become more manageable and more comprehensible. We do not, however, want to lose information as a result of the groupings. It is possible to assess the quality of grouping options graphically by seeing if the resulting assessments of health are concordant with the raw data. This can be done through the use of CDF-index values, cumulative distribution function plots, parallel coordinates plots, and scatterplots. A major purpose of this paper is to present approaches and the graphics for comparison and prioritization based on quintiles used, in this case, for ecological assessment of a large region.
24113669|Species richness, resource availability, and disturbance are the primary factors considered in assessing the invasibility of plant communities. Nonetheless, the density of individuals in a community is a common and easy trait to measure. The ecological significance of the density of both native and invasive tree species was assessed using a systematic review and formal meta-analysis. The densities of recipient communities and invasive exotic tree species in novel ranges were identified in the published literature. In addition, we compared by means of a meta-analysis: (i) densities of invasive versus native species in invaded communities; (ii) densities of native species in invaded versus uninvaded communities; and (iii) densities of invasive species along distance gradients from initial locus of invasion. Invasive trees were found at higher densities than native species in recipient communities. Invasions by woody species were also recorded in communities with relatively low densities of natives suggesting that (i) low density forests may be more susceptible to invasion and/or (ii) density of the recipient community may be reduced during the invasion process. In addition, comparison of native species densities between invaded and uninvaded stands from the same community suggests that invasive trees negatively affect density of native trees once established. Therefore, the widely reported low density and often richness of native plants in invaded communities cannot be directly linked to ecosystem susceptibility to invasion without considering concomitant impacts. These findings suggest that density is a key preliminary determinant or factor which should be considered when assessing tree invasion dynamics.
24113544|Natural habitat edges are known to influence the vegetation structure, the microclimate and thereby the invertebrate assemblages. We studied the spiders of two forest edges in the forest-steppe zone of the Great Hungarian Plain (Site 1 : a dense juniper shrub  open grassland and Site 2: a juniper and poplar forest  open grassland edge, respectively). The spider assemblages were sampled with pitfall traps arranged in 5  20 grid at the habitat edges. Observed and estimated species richness was higher for the grasslands than for the forests. Rnyi's diversity ordering was applied to compare species diversity. The results showed that the grasslands were more diverse in terms of spider species than the forests. The composition of spider assemblages was significantly different between the two habitat types. At Site 2, a higher number forest specialists penetrated into the grassland. Presumably this was due to the shading effect of the nearby poplar trees. Constrained ordinations also revealed a strong influence of the neighbouring poplar trees and vegetation structure on the spider assemblages. No exclusively edge associated species were found on either of the two sharp forest edges.
90002427|Indexing and mapping of co-occurrence for multiple species is central to many analyses of conservation needs, ecosystem health, and community composition. Species richness is often used because of its simplicity and interpretability, but a variety of ecologically based weighting schemes for species have been developed for special purposes such as determining biotic integrity. This work is concerned with indexing a balance between common and uncommon species for preliminary assessments of conservation needs. A
90002552|Spatially synoptic multivariate image data implicitly embody information on landscape pattern, for which analytical techniques of explicit pattern extraction are evolving. In parallel, a multiplicity of environmental indicators is being generated in the arena of geographic information systems. Landscape ecological analysis offers substantial opportunity for configuring these indicators synoptically as cells over spatial extents and for stacking them into complementary sets of
24113710|Disturbance related vegetation dynamics differs with Azorean mountain forest communities, where each tree species has its own regeneration strategy. Knowledge of the spatial distribution of tree species may help us to generate hypotheses on the relation between disturbance, regeneration and spatial organization and on the possible underlying ecological mechanisms. In view of this, we asked the following questions regarding the spatial pattern of tree species: What is the spatial distribution of saplings and adults? Are there any spatial associations or exclusions between saplings and adults of the same and different species? To what extent do the disturbance regimes and regeneration strategies of each species explain its spatial pattern? Six 225 m 2 (15  15 m) plots were placed in each of three different forest types in three Islands (Pico, Terceira and Flores). Patterns of tree individuals were analysed through Morisita's index of dispersion (I  ) and Iwao  index. With the exception of Laurus azorica and Frangula azorica, saplings are in most cases aggregated. Erica azorica is the only species whose adults are aggregated at short distances. Spatial distribution is mostly random for the other species. At short distances, few strong associations or exclusions were detected. Pioneer species such as Juniperus brevifolia tend to be more aggregated due to their dependence on gaps to germinate and recruit new individuals. In fact, increasing disturbance and gap size enhances the regeneration of J. brevifolia. Primary species tend to be randomly distributed in part due to their strategy of forming seedling-sapling banks. Spatial pattern of tree species is largely explained by disturbance regimes and regeneration strategies of each species. However, factors such as habitat related patchiness, competition and dispersion limitation may also explain many of the observed patterns.
90004012|Testing the ecological communities of different areas for convergence, in the sense of remarkable similarity in the characteristics of the species present, has a long history in biology. Recently, numerical methods have been developed for comparing community-level convergence to an explicit null model.
90004009|In recent years, many authors have attempted to determine whether local processes (such as competitive exclusion) result in local species richness below that of a local community assembled only by dispersal from a larger regional species pool. To do this they hypothesize that no local processes are significant and that local communities are assembled by dispersal only (Dispersal Assembly Hypothesis or DAH). Some authors have presumed that a prediction of this hypothesis is that, if many regions of similar ecological type (e.g., grassland, temperate deciduous forest, etc.) are compared then local richness will be the same fixed proportion of regional richness, across all regions. To compare this putative prediction with observed data, they plot local richness on the vertical axis vs. regional richness on the horizontal axis and discover how well a straight line fits: if it fits well then they accept the hypothesis and they take the slope as an estimate of the fixed proportion; if it fits poorly (usually by curving down for larger regional pools), then they reject the hypothesis and they presume that local processes are significant. In the present paper, I hypothesize DAH, and for each of two different species relative abundance distributions and predict, by simulation, the probability distribution of species richness in a local community, for a full spectrum of local community sample sizes. The plot of the expected values of these predicted distributions vs. regional richness (for a constant local sample size) and vs. increasing local sample size (for constant regional richness) is not a straight line in either case, but always curves downward. Thus, a straight line (proportional sampling) is never a prediction of DAH, so that looking for straight lines in data plots is irrelevant to testing DAH. Finally, I describe how to compare these predictions to observed data to test whether local processes significantly limit local species richness.
24113670|Different components of biodiversity may vary differently since species diversity was considered to be determined by resource availability but functional diversity was related to partitioning of niche space. Moreover, the harsh or benign conditions may result in different niche space partitioning by the coexisting species. For example, in harsh environments niche differentiation may be stronger resulting in higher functional diversity. In this study, we investigate species diversity and functional diversity along a south- to north-facing slope gradient with different resource availability in a sub-alpine meadow. Our results indicate that the patterns of species diversity and functional diversity are not consistent along this gradient. Both species richness and Shannon index of diversity increased, but functional diversity slightly decreased or changed a little from south- to north-facing slope. Moreover, these two components formed a quadratic relationship. Soil water content (SWC) was the limiting resource along this gradient. On one hand, it determined the species diversity; on the other hand, it also influenced functional diversity via affecting niche differentiation and species trait pool. In conclusion, functional diversity was determined by both species richness and niche differentiation with the influence of soil water content.
90002416|The River Paran is the second largest river of South America and its flood plain is covered by different kinds of forests and herbaceous vegetation. It is subject to an annual pulse of flooding; floods larger than the normal annual ones at irregular periods of few year and catastrophic extraordinary floods few times in a century. The last catastrophic flood was in 1983, followed by a short lived high flood in 1992. The catastrophic flood destroyed almost completely the herbaceous vegetation. Our hypotheses are, on the one hand, that the plant communities of this area will be restored rapidly, and on the other, that there will be a succession process which will produce a shift of communities so that, those on the higher part of the elevation gradient will encroach the ones at its lower part. We analyse, by means of the floristic composition, the effect of disturbance induced by catastrophic floods on the vegetation stability and dynamic processes, in an internal depression and pond of the riparian plant communities in an island of the River Paran valley. The results strongly support the first hypothesis.
90002428|We elaborated and tested a novel operative framework for sampling and analysing fine-scale pattern of plant composition and biomass. We combined presence/absence sampling of plant species with non-destructive biomass estimation. In an open perennial sand grassland, we used 46 m long circular transects consisting of 0.05 m by 0.05 m adjoining elementary sampling units. This arrangement allows us to scale across a range of 0.05 to 20 m. For measuring aboveground green biomass, we applied digital camera sensitive to red and near infrared parts of light spectrum, and we calculated normalised differential vegetation index (NDVI). We used information statistics proposed by Juhsz-Nagy to study the association between spatial patterns of production and species composition. Since information statistical functions applied require binary data, we transformed NDVI data into one or several binary variables. We found that not only dominant species but subordinate gap species were also associated to high biomass, although the strength of association varied across scales. Most of the significant associations were detected at fine scales, from 0.05 to 0.25 m. At the scales commensurable with quadrat sizes usually applied in grasslands, i.e., from 0.5 to 2.0 m, we could hardly find any significant associations between species composition and biomass. We concluded that the novel methods applied proved reliable for studying fine-scale relationships between species composition and biomass.
24113461|Wetlands are naturally patchy habitat types that in fragmented landscapes are usually immersed inside a sea of anthropogenic habitat matrix. Decrease in patch size area and increase of patch isolation are two important components of wetland fragmentation. We investigated the effects of fragment area on bird species richness at four-level assemblages in a highly fragmented Mediterranean wetland system of Central Italy. Our results indicate that fragment area influenced differently the species richness for distinct assemblages in wetland fragments. Area was significantly correlated to total species richness, vagrant, breeding and Phragmites-related breeding species (PBS). A comparison of the various regression equations showed that the log-log relationship was the best-fitted model and the amount of variation (R2 of log-log regression line) was much higher for PBS and breeders than for vagrants. This pattern confirmed that when including vagrants in studies based on the equilibrium theory of island biogeography, the 'insularity ofislands' is reduced. We also found that higher z-values (regression slope) were associated with PBS and breeding birds, supporting the idea of a 'matrix effect' on the studied species.
24113551|Abundance-occupancy relationships were determined for desert plants in the northwestern Red Sea region, at both the whole landscape, and individual habitat levels. Some 58 stands (having a total of 66 species) were studied, using ten quadrats (10  10m2) per stand. The relation was positive and highly significant at both scales, but stronger at habitat level than across the regional landscape. Niche-breadth was estimated as the number of habitats occupied regionally by a species, and was significantly related to both abundance and occupancy. Niche breadth explained just 10.1% of variation in abundance but some 56.2% of variation in occupancy. Using empirical data, we tested whether those abundance-occupancy relationships diverged significantly from a theoretical null model. Relationships diverged significantly from the null model at both regional landscape and habitat levels. Applications of abundance-occupancy relationships for plant conservation showed that 36% of the species in the study region is at risk of extinction.
24113362|The relative abundance and nature of associations between symbiotic species can be affected by abiotic conditions with consequences for population dynamics. We investigated the effects of temperature on the community of mites and fungi associated with the southern pine beetle, Dendroctonus frontalis, an important pest of pine forests in the southern United States. First, we determined whether the growth rates of mutualistic and antagonistic fungi associated with D. frontalis differed in their responses to temperature. Second, we tested the effects of temperature on the abundance of, and interactions among, fungi, mites and beetles within D. frontalis-infested trees. Fungi differed in their growth responses to temperature, resulting in changes in fungal-beetle associations. Mite species associated with D. frontalis also differed in their responses to temperature, resulting in different mite communities associated with bark beetle progeny. The effects of temperature on beetle reproduction could not be assessed because of high wood borer density, but inter-relations among surviving beetles, mites and fungi were altered by temperature. Results support the hypothesis that temperature can produce direct and indirect effects on the web of mutualistic and antagonistic relationships within the community of D. frontalis and their symbiotic mites and fungi.
90002365|With continuing proliferation of human influences on landscapes, there is mounting incentive to undertake quantification of relationships between spatial patterns of human populations and vegetation. In considering such quantification, it is apparent that investigations must be conducted at different scales and in a comparative manner across regions. At the broader scales it becomes necessary to utilize remote sensing of vegetation for comparative studies against map referenced census data. This paper explores such an approach for the urbanized area in the Tokyo vicinity. Vegetation is represented by the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) as determined from data acquired by the
90002613|In the analysis of multidimensional ecological data, it is often relevant to identify groups of variables since these groups may reflect similar ecological processes. The usual approach, the application of well-known clustering procedures using an appropriate similarity measure among the variables, may be criticized, but specific methods for clustering variables are neither investigated in detail nor used broadly. Here we introduce a new clustering method, the Hierarchical Factor Classification of variables, which is based on the evaluation of the least differences among representative variables of groups, as revealed by a two-dimensional Principal Components Analysis. As an additional feature, the method gives at each step a principal plane where both the grouped variables and the units, considered only according to these variables, can be projected. This method can be adapted to count data, so that it may be used for classifying both rows and columns of a contingency data table, by using the chi-square metric. In an example, we apply both methods to vegetation and soil data from the Campos in Southern Brazil.
90002429|In this paper, we examine the application of a particular approach to induction, the minimum message length principle and illustrate some of the problems that can be addressed through its use. The MML principle seeks to identify an optimal model within some specified parameterised class of models and for this paper we have chosen to concentrate on a single model class, that of mixture separation or fuzzy clustering. The first section presents, in outline, an MML methodology for fuzzy clustering. We then present some applications, including the nature of the within-cluster model, examination of the univocality of results for different groups of species and the effectiveness of presence data compared to purely quantitative data. Finally, we examine some possibilities of extending MML methodology to include within-class correlation of species, the existence of dependence between observed samples and the comparison of different classes of models.
90002565|Both local and regional factors determine local species richness. We investigated the relative role of local (13 soil and tree stand structure variables) and regional factors (19 climate, land cover and geographic location variables) in determining the richness of several vascular plant functional groups in indigenous forest fragments in southeastern New Zealand. The predictor variables explaining the largest fraction of the variation in species richness were identified using a backward and forward stepwise procedure, with adjustments for the number of variables and testing for multicollinearity. The total proportion of variation explained by local and regional factors was highest for tree species richness (54.1%) and lowest for herbaceous species richness (28.2%). We found differences between the functional groups in the extent to which species richness was explained by local vs. regional factors, but both showed some ability to explain the species richness of all functional groups. The abundance of the strongly competitive tree species
24113507|Modern agriculture is one of the main anthropogenic threats to biodiversity. To explore the effects of agricultural intensification we investigated carabids and spiders in two studies; in 2003 in grasslands and two years later in cereal fields in the same region. Both aimed to study the effect of management on arthropod diversity and composition at local and landscape scales. In 2003, we used a paired design for grasslands (extensively vs. intensively grazed). In 2005, a gradient design was applied with a total of seven land-use intensity categories. In both studies, sampling was carried out using funnel traps with the same sampling effort. Linear mixed models showed that high grazing intensity in grasslands had a positive effect on carabid species richness and abundance, but no effect on spiders. Landscape diversity had a positive effect only on carabid abundance. In the case of cereal fields, the management intensity (nitrogen fertiliser kg/ha) had a negative effect on spider richness and no effect on carabids. After variance partitioning, both local and landscape characteristics seem to be important for both cereal and grassland arthropod communities. Based on our results, we think that current and future agri-environmental schemes should be concentrated on cropland extensification. Low intensity croplands could act as a buffer zone around the semi-natural grasslands, at least in this biogeographic region.
24113506|Conservation treatments often take place at the scale of vegetation stands and affect within-stand heterogeneity and coexistence patterns of species first. Therefore, it is important to capture changes in these characteristics of vegetation to assess response to treatments early. We propose a method based on Juhsz-Nagy's information theory models, which is capable of describing fine-scale spatial structure of plant communities and characterizes temporal processes as a function of spatial pattern. The proposed multiscale approach handles structural complexity and its dependence on spatial scales with the help of a few coenological descriptors and helps to reveal how fine-scale vegetation pattern affects dynamics. The information statistical functions used in our study (species combination diversity, FD and associatum, As) characterize the scale-dependent variability of multispecies coexistence (structural complexity) and multispecies spatial dependence (the degree of spatial organization). The maxima of these functions and the related characteristic areas (plot sizes) can be used to construct an abstract coenostate space, where spatiotemporal processes (degradation, regeneration) can be followed. We demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed methods for detecting degradation and monitoring vegetation changes in different stands (18 seminatural and 13 slightly degraded stands) of Brachypodium pinnatum dominated wooded steppe meadows in Hungary. The information theory measures captured changes of fine-scale vegetation patterns that remained unexplored by species richness and Shannon diversity. The maximum values of information statistical measures and the related characteristic areas detected differences between seminatural and slightly degraded stands. In the coenostate space, seminatural stands appeared to be less variable compared to degraded ones. Seminatural stands from various geographic locations were less dispersed in this space, i.e., less heterogeneous than degraded ones. The two regions of the coenostate-space defined by the set of seminatural and degraded stands were significantly different. Furthermore, we conclude that the region containing seminatural stands can be regarded as a reference region in this abstract space. Temporal variation of seminatural and degraded stands was also clearly different. Therefore, we recommend the approach for exploring the actual dynamic states of vegetation stands to be treated and for following consequences of treatments in order to determine effectiveness of the conservation action.
24113680|We tested the relationship between water chemical variables and macrophyte vegetation in an oxbow-lake of the Upper-Tisza, Hungary. There were 42 relevs in random plots of 2 m by 2 m and 20 chemical variables (Ca, Fe, Hydrogencarbonate, K, carbonate, Kjeldahl-nitrogen, chloride, COD(Cr), Mg, m-alkalinity, Mn, Na, NH 4 , NO 2 , NO 3 , dissolved orthophosphate-P, total phosphorus, pH, sulphate and conductivity) and a biological one (chlorophyll a) were measured. Detrended canonical correspondence analysis was used to explore the species-vegetation-water chemical variables relationship. Our results revealed that there were pronounced differences both in the vegetation and the chemical variables among the different kinds of vegetation patches. According to the DCCA, Trapetum natantis, Glycerietum maximae, Ceratophyllo-Nymphaeetum albae and Typhetum angustifoliae associations could be separated based on the relevs and environmental variables. Kjeldahl nitrogen and carbonate were found to be the most important variables. Our results suggest that water chemical variables had strong influence on vegetation development. The groups of relevs identified by the DCCA were coherent with classical phytosociological categories.
24113599|Two fish species, one top predator (Imparfinis mirini) and one intermediate detritivorous species (Hisonotus depressicauda), were experimentally manipulated to evaluate their relative importance in structuring the periphytic community, as well as their effects on the other trophic levels. An enclosure experiment was conducted in the Potreirinho creek, a second order tributary of Paranapanema River, SE Brazil. Five treatments were used: enclosure of the predator species, enclosure of the detritivorous species, enclosure of both together, exclusion of all fish species (closed control cage), and cage open to all fish community (open control). Through direct and indirect effects, I. mirini. when alone, gave rise to a trophic cascade that resulted in a positive effect on algal resources. Through direct effects, H. depressicauda, when alone, reduced the amount of organic matter, resulting in a positive indirect effect on algae. In addition, when the two species were enclosed together, only the effects determined by the detritivorous species were present. The results indicate the important role of the intermediate detritivorous species in the maintenance of the composition and trophic structure of the analyzed community by reducing the effects caused by the top predator.
24113630|We analyzed long-term data related to temporal and spatial variation in fish assemblages from five sites along the Suqua River Basin (Crdoba, Argentina). We aimed at determining whether water quality variations generate changes in fish assemblage structure and composition along the river. Despite deterioration of water quality recorded along the basin, fish assemblages were characterized as qualitatively persistent and quantitatively stable, indicating that the specific composition were relatively constant over time. However, on a temporal scale, fish assemblages from the most polluted areas responded to the water quality degradation with a greater variation of species abundance than those from pristine sites. On a spatial scale, changes in fish assemblage structure were related with watershed disturbance gradient and indicated a strong association between fish species distribution and water quality variation. The alterations found in our study suggest a potential imbalance of fish assemblage structure in the long term.
90002619|We established transects under twenty
90002556|The recent version of the DIVERSI program package runs on IBM-PC compatible machines with DOS operating system or a business system which includes DOS client (such as WINDOWS NT, 2000, XP). All routines work with dbase data files. The program calculates diversity indices and their confidence intervals, the significance of diversity differences, index sensitivity and fit some abundance models to actual data. Quadratic entropy and members of the ESS and NESS similarity index family are also included. Hardware requirements, data file operations and examples are provided in a Users Guide. An example of calculating quadratic entropy is presented.
24113652|Ground beetles were studied among grassland - forest edge - beech forest habitats in Hungary, using pitfall traps. We hypothesised that the activity density and species richness of carabids were the highest in the forest edge, the activity density and the number of forest species were decreasing, while the activity density and the number of generalist species increasing from the forest towards the grassland. Carabid assemblage of the grassland was the most diverse and the forest was the least diverse if measured by Rnyi diversity. The average species richness per trap was significantly higher in the grassland and in the edge than in the forest. The number of forest species was significantly higher in the edge than elsewhere. The number of generalist species was highest in the grassland and decreased towards the forest. The activity density of carabids was significantly higher in the forest and in the forest edge than in the grassland. The activity density of forest species was higher in the forest and in the edge than in the grassland. The activity density of the generalist species was higher in the grassland than in the forest edge and in the forest. There were seven species characteristic to the grassland as identified by IndVal; two species were characteristic to the edge, and two species were characteristic both to the forest and the edge. We found that humidity was the highest in the forest; Pterostichus oblongopunctatus and Molops piceus were associated with the forest habitat, while A box ater and Pterostichus melanarius were associated with the forest edge according to the RDA. The the shrub cover was the most relevant factor in the edge; Abax ater and Pterostichus melanarius were associated with this habitat.
24113455|Measurements of trait community composition are known to be sensitive to the way species abundance is assessed, but not to what extent. This was investigated by considering two of the most commonly used indices of community trait composition, trait averages and functional diversity, in bee communities along a post-fire environmental gradient. The indices were computed using three different species abundance measurements (log and unlog number of individuals and species occurrence only) and 5 traits. For certain traits, the responses of the indices to fire varied according to how species abundance was measured. The measurements that took species abundance into account in the most distinct way (e.g., occurrence vs. unlog data) produced the least similar results for all traits. Species were then grouped into different classes on the basis of their relative abundance (i.e., dominants, subdominants, and rare species). As a result, the measure that attaches the highest importance to the abundance of species (unlog data) related mostly to the dominant species traits, while the measure attaching the lowest (i.e., species occurrence) related more to rare species traits. Species diversity was mostly independent of trait averages and functional diversity, regardless of the measure of species abundance used. We also quantified functional redundancy (i.e., the potential minus the observed functional diversity in each community). When more weight was attached to species abundance, redundancy decreased and tended to be less correlated with species diversity. Overall, the way species abundance is taken into consideration in indices of functional composition offers promising insights into the way community assembly mechanisms respond to environmental changes.
24113453|Two basic concepts of guild definition were developed in community ecology that enable simplification of complex communities or ecosystems into structural building blocks of species with similar niches. Root defined guild as a group of species utilising the same environmental resources by a similar foraging method. MacMahon et al. simplified the original definition even more by excluding a foraging method. This concept is focused on utilisation patterns of resources by species regardless the purpose of use. Our objectives were: (1) to test guild structure within a model ecosystem from matrices reflecting the differences between the two concepts, (2) to compare guild patterns detected by the two concepts, (3) to test whether the mixed forest ecosystem consists of significantly different groups of species representing deciduous and coniferous faunal elements. The study was conducted in a primeval beech-fir forest in NW Slovakia during 19972000. In total, 26 bird species were used for further numerical analyses. Two data matrices were constructed reflecting the differences between the two guild concepts. To statistically determine guild structure without arbitrary fusion criteria, a bootstrapped cluster analysis (UPGMA) of chord distances was employed to analyse the data matrices. Symmetric correspondence analysis (CA) was applied for extraction of eigenvectors responsible for the segregation of species into guilds. The classification proposed by Root produced two guild models at the levels of 6 or 9 group partitions at  = 0.10, while the classification following MacMahon et al. detected 7 guild types. The guild structures based on the two concepts were significantly different when tested by two-tailed Wilcoxon paired sample tests and the Monte Carlo among-cluster error sum of squares (SSQ) distance simulation test. Six out of the eight interpretable factors (75%) indicated analogous environmental gradients when comparing two CA ordinations. The most important environmental gradients were: (1) vertical foraging substrate  habitat structure, (2) water  terrestrial foraging substrate gradient, (3) spatial tree morphology, (4) terrestrial foraging substrate gradient, (5) arboreal  airspace gradient, and (6) mountain stream environmental gradient. We did not detect significantly different guilds for generalists and for coniferous and deciduous forest specialists.
24113357|In previous studies a minimum message length fuzzy clustering method was applied to vegetation data and shown to give sensible estimates for the number of clusters as well as consistent estimates of cluster parameters. The minimum message length method provides a principled method of choosing between models and between classes of models. It comprises 2 components; one coding the model and its associated (meta)parameter values, the other coding the data, given the model. The program uses uncorrelated Gaussian distributions as a model for the distribution of attributes within clusters. This assumption may not be acceptable and in this paper a more general model, the t-distribution, has been examined. The t-distribution provides a class of thick-tailed models, while including the Gaussian as a subclass. This should be appropriate in hierarchical clustering where, even if the final clusters had internal Gaussian distributions, the upper levels would not. In addition, it may provide a better model of within-cluster distribution of the attributes even in the final clusters. Although forcing the use of t-distributions was not profitable, allowing a choice between Gaussian and t-distributions for each attribute in each class resulted in improved results. This was despite only one attribute actually selecting the t-distribution over the Gaussian.
24113346|Earlier, as a result of processing maps of trees and crown projections of 90-year-old spruce stands in the Moscow suburbs, nonuniform trends of correlation coefficients between areas of tree crown projections and areas of Voronoi polygons was detected in a series of sites ranked by increasing coefficient of variation of stem diameter. The observed behavior was analyzed using an original two-dimensional model of the dynamics of a plant community. Theoretical measures of competition in a community, which base on the definition of competition show that the process of competition in relatively uniform communities is not uniform. The coefficients of correlation mentioned above can be considered as measures of competition and such competition is not regular or uniform especially in uniform communities. The latter circumstance gives possibility to estimate the duration of biomass growth of freely growing spruce in the Moscow suburbs for 1000 years. Because of limitation of a two-dimensional resource model some characteristics of communities, such as coefficients of variation and correlation features of neighborhoods, differ from experimental values rather significantly.
90002410|I consider relationships between functional feeding morphology and feeding ecology within a guild of dabbling ducks (
24113463|Litter mass represents a key factor in the process of carbon sequestration. Pine plantations are known to accumulate high amounts of litter, which may act as real carbon sink only if it persists for long time. Thus, predicting litter mass by means of robust and straightforward models which convey information from several ecological predictors become crucial in this framework. The aim of this paper was to test for relationships between environmental predictors and pine litter mass (total branch, needle and cone) by Generalized Linear Models, exploring the contribution of different environmental variables in describing patterns of pine litter mass. Different predictors accounting for seasonality, spatial and geomorphological variability, pine stand properties, remotely sensed derived biomass were taken into account. Considering total litter mass, observed vs. predicted values showed a statistically highly significant relation (p < 0.001) by retaining four variables: elevation, latitude, stand age and season. Similar results were achieved for the needle litter mass, which represented anyway the largest fraction of the litter. Regarding branch litter mass, only stand age appeared to be a significant variable. For cone litter mass, no variables were statistically significant in explaining its variance. Potential ecological background processes responsible for the correlations between variables are discussed.
24113458|We studied the vegetation of 54 sandy old-fields abandoned at different times. We first surveyed the vegetation in 1998 and developed predictions about the spontaneous succession using the chronosequence approach. Afterwards, we repeated the survey in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, and based on this monitoring we tested the predictions of the chronosequence study. For both approaches, we analysed the changes in functional group composition during succession. According to the chronosequence study, the most important changes occurred in the youngest old-fields, abandoned 1-4 years ago: the species number and abundance of annuals, disturbance-requiring and anthropogenic species decreased, and those of perennials, grassland generalists, and species with low disturbance-tolerance increased. No changes were predicted for the older fields. The monitoring confirmed the predictions for the youngest old-fields. However, during the 5 years of monitoring several functional groups changed in their species number or abundance even on the older abandoned fields. Both of the methods showed that secondary succession on sandy old-fields is relatively fast. The chronosequence study provided a more static view of the processes, while the multi-year monitoring revealed that there were considerable inter-annual changes as well. With the yearly monitoring we can detect the effect of additional factors, such as land use changes (e.g., changes in grazing intensity) and yearly climate fluctuations on the direction and rate of secondary succession.
24113356|Advanced techniques of network analysis allow the quantification of the indirect interactions and the topological importance of components in ecological interaction networks. In current conservation biology, considering indirect causal effects, identifying keystone species and outlining multispecies approaches begin to be high priority goals. We make an attempt to connect these issues within a network context. Our main interest is to determine the positionally most important set of n nodes in a network, to analyse whether a set of nodes for small n is a subset of another for larger n, and to quantify this nestedness. We apply the KeyPlayer software, a novel tool for network analysis in ecology, introduced originally in mathematical sociology. Topological keystone species complexes are defined, we illustrate the use of this method in a case study and analyse a database of 9 plant-pollinator interaction networks. Our main conclusion is that multispecies approaches may give results very different from single species analyses.
24113634|In arid and semi-arid ecosystems, the presence of woody neighbours affects the existence of several herbaceous species by modifying critical aspects of the environment (e.g., soil humidity, nutrient content or light availability) beneath their canopies. Herbaceous species growing in the understory of Pinus pinaster may be distinct from those in open areas due to litter fall, light interception and changes in nutrient availability. We suggest that the overall effect of woody neighbours on herbaceous layer diversity may vary with the scale focus of analysis. To examine this hypothesis, we collected data on the abundance of herbaceous species in open pineland forests of the central Iberian Peninsula (Spain) using sample quadrats of 0.5 m  0.5 m distributed beneath, at the edge, and outside the canopy of pines in a landscape composed of dunes and plains. The results of CCA ordination revealed significant spatial segregation of herbaceous species reflecting the occurrence of pines and dunes in the landscape. Nested ANOVA disclosed markedly lower species richness beneath the pines, particularly in the dune sites. Species richness partitioning showed higher pine-induced heterogeneity than expected from the sample-based randomized model, leading to significantly increased species richness at the patch level. Hence, the outcome of pine-induced effects on the herbaceous plant diversity is scale-dependent, negative if we focus on separate communities, but positive if the scale focus is extended to whole patches comprising the sum of communities beneath, at the edge, and outside pine tree canopies. These results emphasize the necessity of using various scale perspectives to clarify the different ways in which pines and other woody nurse species affect structure of herbaceous communities in semi-arid Mediterranean ecosystems.
90002475|Important predictors of the species richness of vascular plants and epiphytic lichens on
24113408|Species-area curves (SACs) are generally described as power laws. As power laws, SACs imply fractality in the relation between the number of species and area. In nature, however, the power-law form of SACs is generally observed only within a certain range of areas, not at all spatial scales. Full-scale nested SACs, from the smallest (a few individuals) to largest (regional) scales, may be best fitted by a logistic function. This is because large-scale and small-scale species richness are generally not under similar controls and, consequently, the shape of the SAC changes with scale. At the smallest scales, the form of the SAC is shaped by the autocorrelation structure of environmental conditions among neighboring sites. At the opposite end, the scaling behavior of SACs is controlled by the richness of the regional species pool. Therefore, a unifying scaling theory that bridges the gap between small-scale and large-scale species-area relationships is desirable. In this paper, I suggest that logistic SACs can be considered 'asymptotic fractals' that are characterized by a scaling exponent continuously changing with scale.
24113345|Palynological records helped to illuminate the past, but we show the take can be made much sharper when statistical analysis recognises the records' scale dependence. The latter is an unavoidable consequence of site selection, sediment sampling, and the samples' arrangement into time series by dating. To make provision for this in statistical analysis, scale has to be incorporated as one of the intrinsic variables. But by incorporating scale, the analysis will render the outcome not to be a single conclusion, the usual case in conventional statistics, but a multitude of conclusions each regarding the same set of response and forcing variables and each as valid at its own scale as any of the other conclusions at theirs. Thus, the central question for a usable Statistics is this: how to incorporate scale into the analysis and still have a unique conclusion. We address the methodological aspects and illustrate them by worked examples. We use 14 sites scattered across the globe. Interestingly, the analysis of these brought forth hitherto hidden aspects of the temporal synchronicity of change in palynological composition and concomitant atmospheric temperature oscillations that should greatly interest Ecology, as one critique put it, in the age of Global Change. The examples testify to a conceptual advance in laying open a very basic principle: the synchronicity's statistically strong formation specificity, dominantly positive (in frequency terms) for climate warming at sites in the currently humid, micro- and mesothermal zones, and negative in the currently arid and semi-arid zones. Our paper begins with an introduction to the terminology of multiscale analysis in Ecology, followed by data sources, the method we call canonical serial scaling, and objectives. A detailed discussion of data properties with special attention to error sources in palynology is provided. The method components discussed include the scalars of compositional transition and synchronicity, error dampening, stabilisation of the synchronicity scalar and its sign distribution, analysis of time shifted series, the use of deviation graphs, and pointers to help detect hotspots and other characteristic points of change on the time axis.
90004010|We established microcosms of crop species (
24113359|We assess the performance of a new clustering method for Hierarchical Factor Classification of variables, which is based on the evaluation of the least differences among representative variables of groups, as defined by a set of two-dimensional Principal Components Analysis. As an additional feature the method gives at each step a principal plane where both grouped variables and units, as seen only by these variables, can be projected. We compare the method results with both single and complete linkage clustering, applied to simulated data with known correlation structure and we evaluate the results with a coherence measure based on the entropy between the expected partitions and those found by the methods. We found that the Hierarchical Factor Classification method performed as good as, and in some cases better than, both single and complete linkage clustering in detecting the known group structures in simulated data, with the advantage that the groups of variables and the units can be viewed on principal planes where usual interpretations apply.
24113538|We assess if the structural and floristic diversity of Juniperus-Ilex forests from Pico Island (Azores) corresponds to a mosaic of different phases of a forest cycle, by identifying the phases of that cycle and the dynamic relations between them. Eight 100 m2 plots were placed randomly in areas with structural and floristic differences but having in common the presence of live and/or dead individuals of the dominant tree species (Juniperus brevifolia). In each plot the number of seedlings, saplings, and adults as well as canopy height and width and maximum height of live Juniperus brevifolia and Ilex azorica adults were recorded. The floristic composition was determined in a 25 m2 plot, placed inside each 100 m2 plot. Juniperus-Ilex forests show a cyclic patch dynamic triggered by the senescence and death of even-aged individuals of J. brevifolia. In this forest cycle, five phases were identified, such as gap, building, mature, initial degenerative and final degenerative. The first two phases are dominated by J. brevifolia however in the degenerative phases I. azorica is the dominant tree species. The cycle may be divided into an upgrade series (comprising the first two phases) and a downgrade series (between the mature and final degenerative phases). In these forests there was no climax micro-succession detected since changes in the dominant tree species occur in the degenerative phases. This paper brings the first evidence for the existence of a forest cycle in Macaronesian forests.
90002474|Within-community species-area relationships were examined for vascular plants and epiphytic lichens on
24113529|Amongst all terrestrial ecosystems, the productivity of Mediterranean-type ecosystems has been suggested to be one of the most responsive to increasing atmospheric CO2. The extent to which this prediction holds will depend in part on plant responses to elevated CO2 under the highly variable conditions characteristic of semiarid regions. Structure and composition responses of a semi-natural grassland community to a step-increase in atmospheric CO2 (to about 580 mol mol-1) were examined in the field using Free-Air CO2 Enrichment (FACE) under seasonally varying moisture conditions. The limited production response to elevated concentrations of atmospheric CO2 of this grassland community was counterbalanced by the effect on the phenology of many species. These findings suggest that predictions regarding Mediterranean plant responses to elevated CO2 should account for seasonal patterns of production regulatory responses, which may vary across species and plant functional types.
90002485|The characteristics discussed are measurable on the process trajectory, the path traced out by vegetation transitions in time. It is argued that since the trajectory is symptomatic of factor influences and governing principles, it has to be an object of central interest in dynamic studies. Theoretical points, scaling scenarios, and analytical tools are the main topics. Numerical examples illustrate the applications.
24113363|The question addressed in this paper is whether plant traits and plant functional types related to forage selection by grazers are also related to those expressing short-term community response after grazing. Vegetation of natural campos grassland in south Brazil was examined for species composition and locally described for seven morphological traits before and after a controlled grazing period by bovine cattle. An optimization algorithm was used for the identification of plant functional effect types (PFefT) and plant functional response types (PFreT) - in this case, groups of plants similar in a given set of traits (assessed before and after one grazing short period, respectively) and in their association to grazing intensity. The results have shown that plant traits optimally defining plant types related to forage selection (PFefTs) were the same traits optimally defining short-term community response to grazing (PFreTs); also similar trends of plant morphological variation were observed among populations before and after grazing, based on the traits' correlation structure. However, at the community level the correlation vanished, since similar communities described by the performances of PFefTs were not as similar when described by PFreTs. Hence, whether plant functional types related to forage selection (effect types) are also related to community response to grazing may depend on the level of organization considered. The paper advances on the operational definition of possible overlaps between effect and response plant functional types.
90002493|A simple to calculate and statistically testablemethod is proposed for assessing species abundance unevenness or dominance concentration within plant communities. Dominance rather than evenness is considered the preferred measure, because perfect evenness can be defined and used as a benchmark for comparing communities regardless of floristic richness. Four dominance (Simpson, Berger-Parker, McIntosh, and a proposed [
24113654|Little is known of how changes in plant function may influence adaptive traits amongst animals further up the food chain. We addressed the hypothesis that shifts in plant functional traits are associated with the adaptive function of animal species which have an indirect trophic link. We compared community characteristics and functional traits of two trophically detached biotic groups (vascular plants and carabid beetles) along a primary succession on terrain at the Cedec glacier in the Alps, where dglaciation events following post-Little Ice Age climate warmings are marked by moraine ridges. Morphofunctional traits were recorded: canopy height (CH), leaf dry matter content (LDMC), leaf dry weight (LDW) and specific leaf area (SLA) (for plants) and the number of brachypterous, autumn-breeding and predator species, and average body length (for carabid beetles). We found that vegetation cover and plant species richness gradually increased throughout early succession, with an abrupt increase between 40 and 150 years after deglaciation. At the early stages of the succession plant traits were typical of ruderal species (high SLA, low CH, LDW) whilst a shift in traits towards stress-tolerance (low SLA) occurred >150 years. Carabid communities and traits changed alongside changes in plant species richness and cover, with late successional vegetation hosting larger, more diverse, less mobile carabid species with longer larval development. Thus, ruderal plant strategies are the main contributors during vegetation development, determining vegetation quantity, and probably have the greatest impact on changes in carabid assemblages by regulating resource availability. Plants then require greater stress-tolerance to survive in stable vegetation, which supports high carabid diversity. This suggests that different plant strategies may affect ground beetle communities via contrasting mechanisms: both quantities (biomass, species richness) and qualities (functional traits, adaptive strategies) should be taken into account during studies of plant-animal interactions within ecosystems.
24113601|Adult fly collections were made in May and August 2006, from the mud of a salty lake in the Kiskunsg National Park, Hungary. We collected 21,600 individuals of 62 species in May and 18,400 individuals of 81 species in August, giving a total of 103 species (only 40 appearing in both seasons). Dominant species were different in the two collections. Five species are new for the Hungarian fauna. Diversity measured by several indices was higher in the May collection. We observed simultaneously a nearly lognormal distribution and a power-law like behaviour of the abundances.
90002502|This study investigated if ecological traits of forest floor vegetation could be used as indicators of naturalness of beech forest in Hungary, by comparing near-natural unmanaged stands with managed ones. Seventeen patches in the unmanaged Kkes Forest Reserve were compared with 11 subcompartments of different ages in the surrounding managed forest. In each stand, the character state distributions of 9 ecological species traits were calculated based on presence/absence data of plants. Averages for unmanaged versus managed stands were compared. Significant effects of management were shown. The characteristics of herbaceous plants with higher frequency in managed stands include late start and longer duration of flowering, overwintering canopy, and small epizoochorous seeds. Unmanaged stands are richer in plants that bear leaves from spring to autumn, start flowering early or flower very shortly, produce large seeds. Relevance of this method is discussed for Central Europe, where in large areas intensive forest management rather than fragmentation or break in forest continuity is the major human disturbance.
90002479|This study investigates the relationship between seed dispersal and spatial pattern in a population of wild oats (
90002569|Quantitative remote sensing is becoming increasingly important due to the broader availability of well-calibrated airborne and spaceborne imaging spectrometers. We demonstrate the additional benefit of imaging spectrometers in the retrieval of biochemical and biophysical variables using a general overview of recent contributions of these instruments in a programmatic context and describe in detail in a regional test case the inversion of a radiative transfer model to achieve the overall goal. Imaging spectroscopy today enables the biogeophysical and biogeochemical variables of the continental biosphere processes to be measured with
90004011|Several evenness measures have been proposed for quantifying the distribution of abundance among community species, but none seems to be generally preferred. Since these measures have the common objective of summarizing community structure, they may be expected to be intercorrelated. In this paper, seven standard measures of evenness were calculated for 65 sample plots of ruderal vegetation within the archaeological sites of Paestum and Venosa (southern Italy). Principal component analysis was used to identify the primary aspects of community structure being characterized by these seven indices. The first two principal components explained 96% of total variance. A comparison of the first two principal components with the analyzed measures of evenness provides insight into what aspects of community structure they are expressing. While the first principal component is most sensitive to the relative abundances of rare species, the second principal component is clearly associated to changes in the abundance of the dominant community species.
24113405|A drop disc, originally conceived as a quick and easy method of measuring vegetation height, was compared to the more labour-intensive point quadrat pins in terms of usefulness in quantifying the vertical architecture of field-layer vegetation at a number of broadleaved woodland sites in Buckinghamshire, UK. The drop disc produced measures of height which correlated strongly with those of the point quadrat, as well as a potentially useful value corresponding to 'volume of vegetation', and it is suggested that this technique was relatively more efficient at producing useful data. A number of measures of architectural complexity showed considerable variation in how they ranked sites based upon both real and contrived data. One of these, Fisher's (or Williams') alpha, is shown to be unsuitable for this application. Based upon the weak and non-significant correlations of derived statistics, the practical difficulties in measuring architecture and unfounded assumptions that regard all arthropod species en masse, it is reasoned that explanations of community patterns with respect to architecture must be treated with caution.
24113350|Assembly rules are measures of community structure that link observed patterns with ecological processes, and as such may help to elucidate the mechanisms by which species coexist. We apply two approaches to a lawn community  limiting similarity and guild proportionality  hoping that agreement between them might give robust conclusions. We tested for agreement between these two assembly rules using functional characters that are related to two aspects of species function  light capture and response to defoliation. We combined point quadrat data and a null model approach to test for limiting similarity  a tendency for species differing in functional characters to co-occur more often than expected at random  in turves extracted from the lawn community. Examining the variance in the characters of the species co-occuring at each point, evidence for limiting similarity was found for mowing removal (the proportion of leaf area removed in mowing events). There was greater variation between the species co-occurring at a point than expected at random (i.e., under an appropriate null model). However, no such evidence was found for characters related uniquely to light capture, such as specific leaf area and pigment concentrations. In a previous study in the same community, "intrinsic" guilds had been determined from co-occurrences within the lawn community and from a competition experiment, as those effective in determining species assembly and co-existence. These intrinsic guilds are shown by t-test to differ in the proportion of their biomass removed in mowing (MRI), which is of course related to the height at which their leaf area is held. However, again no differences were seen in characters related uniquely to light capture. Thus, the two different approaches to assembly rules  guild proportionality and limiting similarity  agree that differences in response to mowing are responsible for species co-existence in the lawn community. The agreement between these two approaches, tested on independent datasets of quite different type from the same community, gives possibly the strongest evidence so far that niche differentiation may be responsible for local co-existence in plant communities. However, although MRI is related to this co-existence the lack of correlation with light-capture characters leads to speculation that the effects might be via the below-ground behaviour of the species.
90002551|We used multivariate analysis to model boreal forest stand structure and dynamics at Riding Mountain National Park. Manitoba based on data from 202 sampled stands. Eight forest stand-types were recognized based on canopy composition: black spruce on peat substrates, jack pine  black spruce, bur oak, eastern deciduous (green ash  American elm  Manitoba maple), balsam fir, trembling aspen  paper birch  mountain maple, trembling aspen  balsam poplar, and white spruce. The first four stand-types occur in edaphically distinct environments, while the four remaining boreal mixedwood stand-types occur in edaphically similar environments. We found that the composition and abundance of advance regeneration were best predicted by current canopy composition (redundancy = 54.4%); this reflects both the limited dispersal of conifer seeds and the strong vegetative reproductive capacity of hardwoods. Biotically-controlled site factors such as bareground. herb and shrub cover, ungulate browsing intensity, and stand age were also reasonably good predictors of advance regeneration (redundancy = 31.7%). Edaphic variables such as soil pi I. conductivity, particle size, organic horizon depth and slope proved to be poor predictors of advance regeneration, however (redundancy = 18.1%). Size-class ordination indicated that many stand-types have relatively short successional trajectories, suggesting limited change in forest canopy composition over time. There are two exceptions: in the jack pine  black spruce stand-type, black spruce will increase over time, and in the trembling aspen  paper birch  mountain maple stand-type, eastern deciduous species (green ash, American elm, Manitoba maple, and bur oak) are forecast to become increasingly dominant. We also describe a synoptic model of mixedwood boreal forest stand dynamics for the Riding Mountain area. The model includes a number of factors that we consider to be critical determinants of forest dynamics, such as seed source availability, small and large-scale disturbances, species life-history characteristics, and environmental gradients. Our succession model is more similar those described for eastern than western Canada, which may reflect the lower frequency of catastrophic fires in the Riding Mountain area compared to boreal forests further west. Our model emphasizes that successional trajectories do not converge towards a single self-perpetuating climax. Instead, successional vectors may diverge, converge or remain cyclical, and multiple potential pathways are possible for each stand-type. Our results also illustrate that species assemblages, and the propensity for canopy change in the absence of fire, are governed by the cumulative and synergistic effects of climate, topography, disturbance frequency, size and intensity, edaphic conditions, and the proximity of parental seed sources. Fire suppression in the southern boreal forest has resulted in a paradigm shift in disturbance regime, from large, synchronous catastrophic fires to small-scale, asynchronous gap formation. A major challenge for boreal forest ecologists is to determine the long-term consequences of this paradigm shift on the composition, structure and health of boreal forest stands and landscapes.
24113502|There is strong pressure to embrace indicators for practical goals such as nature conservation and management and to evaluate the restoration success, but the selection of appropriate indicators is not straightforward. In addition, the grain and the type of data collected and data transformation adopted can influence restoration monitoring results. In this paper, we assessed the effect of changing indicator, grain size (i.e., plot dimension) and data transformation in discriminating different mapped plant communities, relying on vascular plant composition data. We considered flora entities at different taxonomic scales of resolution as indicators and used biological forms such as life forms, growth forms and a combination of the two types, i.e., life and growth forms, as rough plant traits. We also analysed the contribution of species as indicators of the different land cover classes by performing an Indicator Species Analysis. We evaluated the effect of changing indicator (taxonomic resolution, life and growth forms and indicator species), grain size and data transformation using permutational multivariate analysis of variance on cover data expressed in percentages and as simple presence/absence. Our results demonstrated that indicators such as taxonomic resolution and biological forms have partial success in discriminating between plant communities, only for the analysis performed on presence/absence data, and that the effects of changing indicator varied depending on the data transformation used. On the contrary, indicator species are coherently effective and changing the grain size has a moderate influence on their ability to discriminate among the habitat types investigated. Hence, indicator species emerged as a promising tool in restoration monitoring. Although indicators are not supposed to substitute comprehensive surveys of vegetation, their use can help redirect considerable time, resources and expertise to more replication and better sampling design.
24113648|Results of two field experiments showed that selective removal of omnivorous mosquito larvae (Aedes triseriatus (Say)) functioning as top predators in the food web of a temperate, tree hole ecosystem resulted rapidly in increased abundance of flagellate and then ciliate populations. Flagellate density increased from <1 per ml to >10 3 per ml within 4 days of omnivore removal, followed shortly thereafter by an increase in ciliate density from < 1 per ml to > 10 2 per ml, after which flagellate density declined, and flagellate and ciliate densities stabilized. Rod-shaped bacteria increased slightly in density after removal of larval mosquitoes, then declined as protist density increased. Cocciform bacteria did not vary in density with these changes, thus the trophic cascade dampened at the remotest trophic level. Concomitant with the increase in protist densities, some bacteria formed elongated filaments >10 m in length, likely an anti-predation, morphological response stimulated by suddenly intensified grazing as protozoan density rose. Results suggest that feeding by omnivorous mosquito larvae exhibited strong top-down effects on flagellate and ciliate populations, depressing them to below their equilibrium densities and nearly to extinction in tree hole ecosystems.
90002357|The paper advocates a more extensive use of additive trees in community ecology. When the distance/dissimilarity coefficient is selected carefully, these trees can illuminate structural aspects that are not obvious otherwise. In particular, starting from squared distances based on presence/absence data, the resulting trees approximate relationships in species richness, a feature not available through other graphical techniques. The construction of additive trees is illustrated by three actual examples, representing different circumstances in the analysis of grassland community data.
24113347|Link distribution is an important architectural feature of ecological networks, since it is thought to influence community dynamics. Several attempts have been made in order to characterize the typical link distribution of food webs, but the number of webs studied thus far is low and their quality is unbalanced. Comparability is a rarely asked methodological question, and as far as we see only two data bases are available which allow reliable comparison of food webs: one for terrestrial, high resolution, host-parasitoid webs and another for highly aggregated, marine trophic networks. We present an analysis of a set of food webs belonging to the latter type, since the host-parasitoid networks are only subgraphs and therefore uninformative on the structure of the entire community. We address the following three questions: (1) how to characterize the link distribution of these small networks which cannot always be fitted statistically to well-known distributions (such as the exponential or the Poisson, etc.), (2) are these distributions of more or less similar shape or they belong to different architectural classes, and (3) if there are different classes, then what are their distinctive topological and biological properties. We suggest that link distribution of such small networks can be compared to each other by principal coordinates ordination and clustering. We conclude that (1) the webs can be categorized into two different classes, and (2) one of the classes contains significantly larger and topologically more heterogeneous webs for which net output of material is also of higher variance. We emphasize that link distribution is an interesting and important property not only in case of complex, speciose food webs, but also in highly aggregated, low-resolution webs.
90002621|In this paper, logarithmic functions are described based on which the total diversity of a collection can be partitioned into components specific to factorial effects. The standard statistical
24113400|Meta-analysis is used to compare the patterns of the tree and the herb layers in a Central-European deciduous hardwood forest. Vegetation patterns are represented by distance matrices and dendrograms. The significance of the relation between the patterns is evaluated through permutation (Mantel) tests and full randomization (Monte Carlo simulation) tests. The relationship between the two layers is significant but weak. When using ecological indicators as variables for characterising the herb layer, the relation is stronger. Distance matrices and dendrograms describe the vegetation pattern similarly. However, the results of pairwise tests of significance strongly depend on the "level" of comparisons, i.e., whether distance matrices or dendrograms are compared. This follows perhaps from the differences between permutation and full randomization tests.
24113349|We propose a simple method to validate vegetation types in phytosociological tables obtained with the Braun-Blanquet approach. The method is based on fuzzy set theory and it measures the sharpness of a classification of relevs based on degrees of belonging calculated by similarity functions. The idea animating this work is that the validated vegetation types offer non-random species combinations that can be used to model environmental changes taking biodiversity into account. Phytosociological tables are widely available today and the information they contain can be very useful in studying environmental changes at different scales, from local to global.
24113718|We studied the intrapopulational genetic structure of a small rock fern subspecies Asplenium ceterach ssp. ceterach living in a fragmented habitat. The level and distribution of genetic variation are primarily affected by the colonization events, the reproductive properties of the species, and the short-distance (leptokurtic) dispersal of spores. These biological processes are at the same time strongly influenced by the geomorphological heterogeneity of the habitat. The individuals' genetic variation was detected as multilocus RAPD profile. The spatially constrained portion of genetic variance within subpopulations was studied by means of variograms, i.e., the average genetic dissimilarity between the pairs of organisms against the separation distance. The range of reduced dissimilarity was 11-13 m. Mantel test proved that subpopulations are isolated by distance. The connected local population patches may create a metapopulation structure. This study also surveyed the adequacy of RAPD products to detect the low level of genetic variation of a polyploid plant population.
24113361|Plant communities are generally spatially structured. Therefore, in order to enhance the interpretation of distance-dependent community patterns, spatially explicit measures of -diversity are needed that, besides simple species turnover, are able to account for the rate at which biological similarity decays with increasing distance. We show that a multivariate semivariogram computed from species presence and absence data can be considered as a space-dependent alternative to existing definitions of -diversity. To illustrate how the proposed method works, we used a classical data set from a second-growth piedmont hardwood forest.
24113341|The pre-dispersal seed predator, Bruchidius villosus (Coleoptera, Bruchidae) destroyed ca. 8% of seeds of its major host-plant, Laburnum anagyroides (Fabaceae, Genisteae), a tree-like legume, in Hungary. However, almost 40% of the pods were infested by the beetle. Females did not show a resource concentration response: with increasing number of seeds per pod, the number of uninfested seeds also increased. A high seed abortion rate of 75% left an average of two full-grown seeds per pod. Females laid three-four times more eggs on pods than the number of full-grown seeds present in a pod. Despite this, a high level (ca. 15%) of egg parasitism and pod abortion that reached levels up to 50% on pods which already bore bruchid eggs, decreased the infestation level. Larval parasitisation rate of B. villosus by chalcids and braconids exceeded 30%.
90002491|We tested the prediction thatwe aremore likely to create persistent, species-rich plant communities by increasing the number of species sown and allowing communities to assemble over six or seven growing seasons. Treatments consisted of four initial seed mixtures comprising 4, 8, 12 and 16 species that represent four functional groups (C
90002499|We performed a computer assisted experiment to test the accuracy of different ratio scales in estimating vegetation cover. Sixteen subjects estimated the cover level of artificial vegetation patterns displayed on the screen for various levels of resolution (from presence/absence to 100 different states, each measured on the ratio scale). We found that estimation error is minimum when the range of cover is divided into ten equal parts. Finer resolution gives less precise estimation since subjects tend to divide cover level into ten or at most twenty intervals in their mind.
24113626|The study of invasion ecology usually focuses on the negative impacts of alien species, while potential positive impacts are often overlooked. Understanding of biotic interactions may thus be skewed towards the negative, which could have important implications for ecological management and conservation. This article provides a comprehensive review of all types of impacts, both beneficial and detrimental, that can result from species translocation. An extensive review of literature on species introductions to terrestrial, freshwater and marine ecosystems and involving a wide range of taxa (including microorganisms, parasites, plants, insects, amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals, fish and Crustacea) showed that, despite limited research into facilitative alien-native interactions, such interactions occur surprisingly frequently. Examples were found of introduced species acting as hosts, food sources, pollinators or seed dispersers for native species, as well as providing herbivory, predatory or parasite release. However, research showed that numerous negative interactions also occurred and combination impacts (when an alien benefits some natives but disadvantages others) were common. In many cases, the traditional view that biological invasions constitute a significant threat to native biota is both accurate and appropriate. Efforts to prevent translocation and control non-native species can be vital. However, the "native good, alien bad" maxim does not convey the complexity of invasion ecology: alien species do not axiomatically pose a threat to native biota. In order to move understanding of invasion ecology forward and to develop maximally-effective management strategies, facilitative alien-native interactions need to be added into the alien species debate.
24113532|Long-term effects of the elevated atmospheric CO2 on biosphere have been in focus of research since the last few decades. In this experiment undisturbed soil monoliths of loess grassland were exposed to an elevated CO2 environment (two-times the ambient CO2 level) for a period of six years with the aid of the open top chamber method. Control without a chamber and CO2 elevation was applied as well. Elevated CO2 level had very little impact on soil food web. It did not influence either root and microbial biomass or microbial and nematode community structure. The only significant response was that density of the bacterial feeder genus Heterocephalobus increased in the chamber with elevated CO2 concentration. Application of the open top chambers initiated more changes on nematodes than the elevated CO2 level. Open top chamber (OTC) method decreased nematode density (total and plant feeder as well) to less than half of the original level. Negative effect was found on the genus level in the case of fungal feeder Aphelenchoides, plant feeder Helicotylenchus and Paratylenchus. It is very likely that the significantly lower belowground root biomass and partly its decreased quality reflected by the increased C/N ratio are the main responsible factors for the lower density of the plant feeder nematodes in the plots of chambers. According to diversity profiles, MI and MI(2-5) parameters, nematode communities in the open top chambers (both on ambient and elevated CO2 level) seem to be more structured than those under normal circumstances six years after start of the experiment.
24113646|Species-specificity of facilitative interactions is ecologically relevant for community organization and dynamics. The prevalence of heterospecific facilitation which is found between higher plants seems an evolutionary paradox since beneficiary heterospecifics can compete with, and even replace, their nurse. An extensive review on facilitative interactions for both higher plants and sessile aquatic organisms is presented. The study reports on the occurrence of positive interactions between conspecifics and heterospecifics, in relation to different growth forms and facilitative mechanisms in terrestrial and aquatic environments. Four hypotheses are considered to explain the observed rarity of conspecific compared to heterospecific facilitation: 1) the occurrence of plant-induced unsuitable recruitment conditions (negative conspecific plant-soil feedback and hump-shaped recruitment distribution), 2) higher competition levels between conspecifics, 3) the prevalence of non-facilitated regeneration niche for nurses, and. 4) differences in the research effort. Self-facilitation is reported much more rarely in terrestrial vegetation (5.3% of 1554 cases of facilitiative interactions), than in aquatic ecosystems (36.2%, n = 130). In absolute terms, far more occurrences of heterospecific facilitative interactions are reported for all growth forms. However, when the occurrences of facilitative interactions are expressed as a percentage of the total con- and heterospecific interactions annual and perennial herbaceous nurse plants show prevailing conspecific interactions, while woody (trees and shrubs) nurse species mostly show heterospecific facilitation. Increase of soil nutrient fertility, improvement of above-ground microclimate, associational refuge and seed trapping are the most common mechanisms of heterospecific interactions. Differently, conspecific facilitation is mostly due to improved soil biotic conditions, changes in fire regimes and reduction of heterospecific competition. Given the frequently reported occurrence of non-facilitated regeneration niche for nurse species, conspecific negative feedback and hump-shaped recruitment distribution in terrestrial plants, these processes are suggested as significantly contributing to explain the observed rarity of conspecific facilitation.
24113543|We suggest a classificatory approach for land cover analysis that integrates fuzzy set theory with permutation techniques. It represents a non parametric alternative and/or a complement of traditional multivariate statistics when data are scarce, missing, burdened with high degree of uncertainty and originated from different sources and/or times. According to this approach, the Operational Geographic Units (OGUs) in which landscape is subdivided and sampled are classified with hierarchical clustering methods. The clusters of a classification which are significantly sharp are used to define fuzzy sets. In this way, the original data scores are transformed by degrees of belonging. We introduce the concepts of endogenous and exogenous fuzzy sets and we suggest to apply the Mantel test between the similarity matrices of these fuzzy sets to test the predictivity of internal variables with respect to external variables. The approach is applied to OGUs corresponding to the smallest administrative units (kebeles) of the Ethiopian Rift Valley, a degrading area with high risk of further degradation. We found that: 1) there is a high correlation between geo-physical features of the landscape (geology, rainfall and elevation) and some indicators of the human pressure such as land use/cover, land management for livestock breeding and human, household and livestock densities, 2) there is a high correlation between land degradation, measured with relative loss of Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) and the human pressure. However, the correlation is higher when the human pressure is considered in the geo-physical context of the landscape. The approach can be easily applied to produce maps useful for planning purposes thanks to geographical information system (GIS) technology that is becoming available at low cost even to small administrative units of developing countries.
24113407|Size-specific interactions between predators can affect both species population dynamics and the structure and biodiversity of communities they inhabit. Interactions between size-structured populations of predators, especially those with complex life-cycles, often change with resource-use changes driven by ontogenetic niche shifts. However, if resource use is determined largely by prey size, generalist predators may compete across a wider range of body sizes and life stages resulting in diffuse intra- and interspecific competition. We examined size- and stage-specific interactions between juvenile sirens (Siren i. intermedia) and adult newts (Notophthalmus viridescens dorsalis) in the context of previous experiments demonstrating competitive equality of larvae and strong effects of adult S. intermedia on adult N. viridescens. Competition between juvenile siren and adult newts was mutually negative and roughly symmetrical. Two S. intermedia reduced growth of three N. viridescens by 21%, while three N. viridescens reduced growth of two S. intermedia by 29%. Together with previous work, this implicates diffuse competition as a critical feature in the ecology of these species across the range of body sizes and suggests that intensity of competition varies more with size than species identity. Competition that varies incrementally with body size expands the realm of possibilities for continuous niche changes and diffuse competition across large size gradients. For generalist predators such as S. intermedia and N. viridescens, body size, except at the extremes, is not an adequate niche difference either intra- or interspecifically.
90002606|DIVERSI 2.2 is a new version of a program package for calculating diversity and related statistics. Shortcomings and errors in the earlier version have been corrected while the new version includes some new routines as well. This paper provides fundamental details together with numerical examples for the benefit of users.
90002612|The Taihang Mountain Range is located at E112 50 -114 30, N35 20- 39 30 in North China. This study aimed to reveal relationships between plant communities, soil variables and topographic variables. Floristic data and environmental data from sixty-eight quadrats of 10 m  20 m along an elevation gradient from 1050 to 2180 m were analysed by TWINSPAN, DCA and CCA. Eight vegetation formations were recognized, all secondary successional stages following the original broad-leaved deciduous forests distraction by human activities. The results showed that the community patterns are related to both soil variables and topographic variables. Among the soil variables, soil N, P, K and organic matter were found to be the most important factors forcing the spatial patterns of plant communities. The vegetation patterns were also significantly correlated with the topographic variables, elevation, slope and aspect. Interactions between the environmental variables were significant. It is concluded that further measures for the conservation of vegetation and protection of soils in the Taihang Mountains must be undertaken.
90002423|In complex, modern food webs, the analysis of pairwise interactions gives weak predictions of the behaviour of either single species or the whole community. Indirect effects call for explicit study and quantification. However, just as focusing only on pairwise interactions is incorrect, overemphasising the role of long, indirect pathways also seems to be unrealistic. Thus, a reasonable range of indirect trophic effects spreading through the food web is to be defined and quantified. I suggest a graph theoretical measure for quantifying this range, considering only network position (topology). I call this the
90002567|The vegetation dynamics of semi-arid and arid landscapes are temporally and spatially heterogeneous and subject to various disturbance regimes that act on decadal scales. Traditional field-based monitoring methods have failed to sample adequately in time and space in order to capture this heterogeneity and thus lack the spatial extent and the long-term continuous time series of data necessary to detect anomalous dynamics in landscape behavior. Time series of ecological indicators of land degradation that are collected synoptically from local to global spatial scales can be derived from the 33-year and continuing Landsat satellite archive. Consequently, a retrospective study was conducted on a commercially grazed sagebrush steppe dominated Utah landscape using a time series of standardized Landsat imagery for the period 1972 to 1997. The study had the objectives to (1) characterize and map the historical trends of a remotely-sensed index of vegetation response, a correlate of vegetation cover or phytomass, and (2) to retrospectively infer the cause of this response to historical records of grazing and wet and drought periods. A time series of dry season vegetation index maps were statistically clustered to generate a spatio-temporal map of three coarse trends of vegetation response, i.e., declining, stable, and increasing trends. This study showed that 71% of the landscapes locations had an increasing trend and 29% had a stable trend over the 26-year period. The increasing trend locations were positively correlated with site water balance [the Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI)], i.e., vegetation response increased during wet periods and decreased during drought. The increasing trend was positively and negatively (non-linearly) correlated with grazing in individual paddocks from 1980 to 1997.
24113707|Small-scale vegetation patterns are frequently the results of plant-plant interactions such as facilitation and competition. Facilitation should be particularly pronounced when both abiotic and biotic stresses are high, but few studies were conducted in such habitats. In heavily-grazed pastures on the eastern Tibetan Plateau, an area with both high abiotic stress and strong biotic disturbance, we made relevs of herb species both beneath and outside canopies of three shrub species (Spiraea alpina, Sibiraea angustata and Potentilla fruticosa) differing in palatability and canopy structure. Herb species(S), richness pooled cover (PC) of all species, number of flowering species (FS) and number of inflorescences of all species (IN) were greater outside than beneath the shrub canopies. Evenness (J), in contrast, was smaller outside, while Shannon's diversity index (H) was the same. Differences in S and J between plots beneath and outside the shrub canopies were greater in the case of P. fruticosa than in the cases of S. angustata and S. alpina, but differences in PC, FS or IN did not depend on the shrub species. Among the common species (frequency 6), 47-85% were equally frequent beneath and outside the shrubs, 13-39% were more frequent outside and 3-13% were more frequent beneath the shrubs. For the rarest species (frequency < 6), however, more species occurred beneath than outside the shrubs. The ordination diagram showed a clear separation between the relevs outside and beneath the shrubs and a gradient from P. fruticosa via S. alpina to S. angustata, accompanied by a distinct decrease in the extent of the difference between the vegetation beneath and outside the shrub canopies. In conclusion, the three shrub species facilitated some species in the herb layer and each shrub species had a specific impact, related to its canopy structure and palatability but also to the grazing pressure, which was greater around the P. fruticosa shrubs than around S. alpina and S. angustata.
24113520|The effects of elevated atmospheric CO2 on in situ soil respiration and belowground biomass were studied in a FACE (Free Air CO2 Enrichment) facility. A Mediterranean grassland community was exposed to elevated and ambient CO2 concentrations in a mini-FACE system in Tuscany (Italy). We quantified litter mass and chemistry, root growth and turnover, CO2 efflux from soils, and soil microbial biomass. Elevated CO2 caused limited increases in aboveground production. Litter quality, fine root turnover, microbial biomass, root growth, and root biomass were not significantly affected by elevated CO2, except during some periods. Our results suggest that elevated atmospheric CO2 might moderately accelerate inputs of organic matter to soil carbon pools in Mediterranean grasslands, but it may also partially accelerate losses of carbon from belowground by stimulating soil respiration.
24113369|A multi-stage cluster sampling is proposed for quantifying and monitoring plant species richness at multiple spatial grains over large spatial extents. An unbiased estimator of average species richness at different grains and a conservative estimator of its sampling variance are obtained in a complete design-based framework, i.e., avoiding any assumption about the ecological community under study. An application to the Nature Reserve "Lago di Montepulciano" demonstrates that the proposed strategy may accomplish practical advantages and quite satisfactory levels of accuracy.
90002561|We address issues of investigations in plant ecology with a time span exceeding the range of ordinary research projects. According to the findings in the papers of this special issue of
24113552|This study profiled soils over a land degradation gradient to obtain formulae as integrative measures for describing the gradient as a result of deforestation in Thailand. We applied antibiotic resistance most-probable-number profiling to the soil bacterial communities, and then described the gradient. Soil samples were collected on the gradient represented by dry evergreen forest (the original vegetation), dry deciduous forest (moderately disturbed) and bare ground (the most degraded) in February (dry season), March (shortly after temporal precipitation) and June (rainy season) 2001. In the period of this study, the degradation was consistently shown as soil conditions like sandy texture, high bulk density, lower pH, high exchangeable acidity, poor mineral and organic nutrients and dryness. Soil fertility index and soil evaluation factor, as the integrative measures of the intensity of land degradation, were described by scores on the first or the second principal component derived from the soil bacterial community profiles for each sampling time (R>0.457, p<0.043) and by scores on the third and fourth principal components for the overall data set (R>0.501, p<0.001), suggesting great dry to moist seasonal effects. Further, the changes had significant relationships with gradients of soil moisture content, acidity and/or soil nitrogen content. The data sets on the soil bacterial community profiles had more complicated data structures than the physicochemical data sets, suggesting effects of the physicochemical changes on the soil bacterial community. The differences between the bacterial and the physicochemical aspects suggest that it is advantageous to observe multiple aspects of soil quality when describing a soil-related gradient of interest.
24113500|Even if the establishment of nature reserves is to date a reality and the increase of protected areas is going to grow year after year, monitoring programs aiming to assess the effectiveness of the established protected areas for biodiversity conservation are still needed. That is the case for the Natura 2000 network in Europe, for which monitoring methods and programs are not yet well-established. A probabilistic sampling procedure is proposed and tested for quantifying and monitoring plant species diversity within a local network of protected areas, namely the Natura 2000 network in the Siena Province, Italy. On the basis of a sampling strategy of one 100 m2 plot randomly located in each 1 km  1 km cell, four Sites of Community Importance (SCIs) were investigated in 2005. The gradients in species composition at the plot scale were largely related to elevation and forest cover. The species richness values of the four SCIs were compared by means of sample-based rarefaction curves. Then, additive partitioning of species richness was applied to determine the most important spatial components in determining the total species richness of the network. Compositional differences among the plots within each SCI were the most responsible of the total species richness. These methodologies can be adopted for assessing plant species richness within a large region or within a reserve network and, if combined with additive partitioning, they can be used as a set of large scale indicators of species diversity.
24113542|Nestedness is a pattern whereby species-poor assemblages are composed of subsets of the species occurring in richer assemblages. One of the most commonly used measures of the degree of nestedness for presence-absence matrices is the 'discrepancy' metric. A hitherto neglected property of that metric is that it may take several values for a given site-by-species matrix in the presence of ties in the marginal totals. This complicates the quantification of nestedness for the observed presence-absence matrix, as well as the assessment of statistical significance, which is typically achieved through Monte Carlo simulations. A solution to the problem is to calculate the minimum discrepancy using a modified algorithm involving permutations of columns with tied totals.
24113398|Changes in the trophic structure of communities are good indicators of ecosystem stress or environmental change. Here, we compare the sink webs of two bird species (great tit, Parus major, and European blackbird, Turdus merula) in two habitats (a forest and an orchard), in order to detect the differences in their trophic status. The webs are functionally aggregated in three steps, based on energetics. Our main conclusion is that tits are less sensitive to habitat change from the natural to the agricultural.
90002505|We present a new method to asses the strength of indirect interactions and to indentify candidate keystone species in quantitative food webs. We apply this method to the structural analysis of a host-parasitoid community. The strength and symmetry of indirect interactions between 12 leaf-miner hosts and their 27 hymenopteran parasitoids are quantified. It is shown that (1) quantifying longer pathways helps in determining which species have more important direct or indirect effects on others. (2) a keystone pattern of relative species importance, based on positionality in the interaction network, seems to characterize this community. (3) considering longer pathways results in a characteristic few strong - many weak distribution of interaction strength, and (4) between the majority of species pairs the interaction is weakly asymmetrical. We emphasise that a very simple network algebra approach may offer important predictions on both species- and community-level patterns.
24113456|The question whether and to what degree urbanization causes a decrease in diversity of animal and plant species and changes in community structure is still a matter of debate. While many studies used ground beetles, vertebrates, and butterflies as assumed model taxa, little work has been done with other, particularly insect, taxa. Here we report on rural and urban diversities of communities of carcass visiting destruent and predatory beetles (Coleoptera). From 8 rural and 2 city sites, we sampled 15323 destruent beetles representing 58 species and 1871 predators from 43 species. We observed a reduced diversity and changes in community structure of both beetle guilds towards the city. However, these changes were guild specific and our study gives no evidence that there are simple rules that govern rural and urban patterns of diversity. Species abundance distributions did not significantly differ between the study sites. There is also no evidence that the intermediate disturbance hypothesis might apply. Lastly, we found only little support for a homogenizing effect of urban environments on carrion visiting beetles.
90002356|We used space-for-time substitution to obtain a directed successional sequence for subalpine meadow vegetation in the Swiss National Park. Since human impacts (e.g., domestic animal grazing) ceased in 1914. the successional processes documented are assumed to be autogenic in nature. The data consist of 59 permanent plots spanning almost 90 years, and include many spatial replications. An initial inspection of the individual time series revealed the existence of a variety of response patterns, which are described in the literature as representing different successional types. However. a closer inspection suggested that many of these series can be superimposed, as they are part of a much longer deterministic series. Linking the individual time series proved to be challenging. A heuristic approach produced results that differed depending on initial starting conditions. We therefore derived a deterministic algorithm to produce a unique solution. The resulting sequence largely confirmed the heuristic interpretation, suggesting a trend from early successional (post-grazing) grassland to pine invasion spanning about 400 years. This timespan is valid only for the climatic conditions near the treeline. and for plant species specific to the study site. Our results suggest that the various species temporal response models described in the literature may be artifactual. representing portions of underlying Gaussian responses. The data also indicate that species assemblages may persist for several decades with only minor fluctuations, only to change suddenly for no apparent reason.
90002358|Correspondence analysis has found widespread application in analysing vegetation gradients. However, it is not clear how it is robust to situations where structures other than a simple gradient exist. The introduction of instrumental variables in canonical correspondence analysis does not avoid these difficulties. In this paper I propose to examine some simple methods based on the notion of the plexus (
24113524|The relationship between the soil seed bank at the onset of the growing season and the structure of the ensuing vegetation under grazing was investigated in an eastern Mediterranean grassland. Species responses to two contrasting cattle grazing regimes were studied through plant trait analyses. Traits included plant size, phenology, seed size and germination fraction. Changes in species composition of the soil seed bank and the vegetation were analyzed using a plant functional group approach. The results showed that seed bank and relative cover of tall annual and perennial grasses increased when grazed late in the growing season. The opposite was noted for short annual grasses, annual legumes, annual thistles, annual crucifers and other annual forbs. Grazing treatments little affected plant cover of herbaceous perennials. Tall annual and tall perennial grasses have large seeds and germination rates over 90%. Short annual grasses showed similarly high germination rates but with smaller seeds. Annual legumes were characterized by medium size seeds and lower germination fractions (<50%). Tall annual grasses showed high competition capabilities at late grazed paddocks due to a combination of regeneration traits that included: high germination fraction, larger seed and seedling size, and inflorescence with morphological defenses. It is proposed that in addition to plant size and palatability, regeneration traits such as seed dormancy, seed and seedling size play an important role in determining the vegetation structure under different grazing regimes, thus contributing to the high plant species diversity characteristic to Mediterranean grasslands.
24113340|Several managed native forest stands have been reforested with conifer trees in Europe during recent centuries. These habitat alterations have influenced ground-dwelling invertebrates. We studied carabid beetle assemblages from a native beech forest (70-y-old), and a recently established (5-y-old), a young ( 15-y-old), a middle-aged (30-y-old) and a mature (50-y-old) Norway spruce plantation by pitfall trapping to explore the effect of reforestation on carabid beetles. The total number of carabid species, and the forest species were highest in the beech forest. The number of open-habitat species was highest in the youngest, relatively open monoculture. Ordination also confirmed changes in carabid composition with change in the studied habitats. Newly proposed forest affinity indices, based on species specificity, fidelity, and on a combination of specificity and fidelity were significantly higher in beech forest than in spruce plantations. We found these affinity indices especially useful in revealing the ecological character of the studied carabid assemblages. Regression analyses showed that leaf litter cover, herbs, shrubs, canopy closure and prey abundance were related to the structure of carabid-beetle assemblages.
24113522|Plant biomass production, soil chemical and microbial parameters, microbial processes of C and N cycle and gases emissions were studied in soils at two types of grasslands (wet meadows). Both sites are situated in the Czech Republic: (1) a nutrient poor sedge meadow on organic soil (Z) and (2) a mesotrophic sedge-sweet grass meadow on mineral soil (H). Eutrophication was simulated by the application of NPK fertilizer to selected permanent plots in 2006 and 2007 in amounts of 9 kg N + 4 kg P ha-1 year-1 (low dose) and 45 kg N + 20 kg P ha-1 year-1 (high dose). After two years of fertilizer application, we observed an increase in net aboveground plant production (about 9-12 kg ha-1 year-1) connected with an increase in shoot:root ratio in fertilized plots of both sites, with more pronounced changes in oligotrophic sedge meadow. Total CO2 efflux from the ecosystem measured in situ was significantly higher at fertilized plots as well as increase in total soil respiration in case of sedge meadow, but we found no significant effect of fertilization on CO2 efflux from the system at mesotrophic site. Suiprisingly, other parameters, like soil microbial biomass C and N content, the rates of respiration, denitrification, nitrification, nitrogen mineralization and nitrogen assimilation were not affected by fertilization. In conclusion, an interesting finding is that despite non significant impact on aboveground component there were significant responses in belowground part which suggest that belowground processes may be suitable early warning signals. Peaty oligotrophic soil seems to be more sensitive to nutrient addition than mineral soil. However, final effect of fertilization on ecosystem C balance stays unknown and longer study is necessary to draw explicit conclusion.
90002610|We studied biomass and species composition changes of open perennial sand grassland (
90002486|Probabilistic classification offers various advantages in its application to vegetation studies: it can use data in the form of ordered as well as quantitative values; it can use a range of values for each attribute (species) in each relev or group of relevs: it can use incomplete data sets: it takes account of all species, rather than only characteristic species: and it enables a null hypothesis of random distribution of species among relevs to be tested.
90002573|The on-going Biodiversity Monitoring in Switzerland Programme (BDM) has monitored vascular-plant species richness since 2001. This long-term programme focuses on two indicators at different spatial scales. First, the local diversity indicator monitors changes of species richness within habitats or types of land use (within-habitat diversity). Second, the landscape diversity indicator is utilized to describe landscape diversity (i.e., within-habitat mosaic diversity). Here we examine if the reproducibility of the BDM methods is sufficiently precise to detect future changes in species richness. We demonstrate that systematic methodical errors are negligible. Random errors that make changes more difficult to detect are also small. We calculate the Minimum Detectable Difference (MDD) for selected BDM strata using the variance of measured values. Then we deduce the MDD values for paired samples using data from grasslands and forests in the Canton Argovia. With 2.4 and 1.6 species they are promisingly precise. We develop a simple scenario for possible changes in species richness and show that they surpass the deduced MDD values by a factor four to six. We conclude that the BDM methods are appropriate for detecting future changes in species richness.
90004016|The species composition of the seed bank and aboveground vegetation of an old field was compared to a reference grassland stand. The relative importance of dispersal and recruitment as limiting factors was analysed, and measures for appropriate restoration are proposed. Grassland species were able to re-establish in the old field soon after abandonment of cultivation, with
24113531|Monoliths of temperate loess grassland and temperate semi-desert sand grassland have been exposed to elevated CO2 (700 mol mol-1) and present ambient CO2 concentration in a 6-year open top chamber (OTC) experiment. In loess grassland elevated CO2 increased both biomass and vegetation cover, whereas there was no similar effect found in semi-desert grassland. The content of glomalin related soil protein (GRSP) increased in both loess and sand grasslands under CO2 enrichment (early summer aspect). The increase was higher in the case of easily extractable fraction (EEG), representing 14.7 and 22.2% of the chambered control's EEG, for loess and sand grassland respectively. In the case of total glomalin the increase was much lower 7.9% (loess) and 2.6% (sand). On the basis of differences between elevated and ambient CO2 treatment we could conclude that elevated CO2 promoted C-deposition in xeric temperate grassland in early summer. Increases of EEG indicate an efficient partitioning of the recently fixed carbon to the soil.
24113677|We investigate the modifications of soil factors in Carpobrotus invaded sites by evaluating differences between non-invaded and highly invaded plots in three habitats of coastal dune ecosystems in Central Italy. Nitrogen content, organic matter content, pH and salinity were measured in three coastal habitats: shifting dunes along the shoreline with Ammophila arenaria, Crucianellion maritimae fixed beach dunes and fixed coastal dunes with Juniperus spp. Soil variables of the invaded plots were compared to non-invaded ones using two-way factorial ANOVAs and post-hoc Tukey HSD tests. We found significant differences between invaded and non-invaded plots for nitrogen content, organic matter content and pH in both foredune habitats. On the other hand, no differences were revealed on fixed dunes. Thus, we found distinct responses of soil factors to Carpobrotus invasion depending on the habitat. Pioneer habitats with very poor soils are more sensitive to invasion probably because the production of litter by Carpobrotus is considerably higher than for native species. Therefore, for the establishment of efficient alien control programs of those habitats of conservation interest, it is imperative to take into account the relationship between invasive species presence and the top soil characteristics. For instance, particular attention is required in the foredune zone (pioneer habitats), where Carpobrotus invasion is more likely to affect the parameters of the soil.
24113546|An assemblage of moth species at a suburb of Prague (505'H"N,1418'06"E) was monitored by a highly efficient mercury light trap for 23 years (1967-1976, 1980-1992). Species caught were divided into guilds according to habitat specialisation, and analysed using species richness S, Shannon's diversity H and evenness J as the response variables, and the individual years of monitoring and effects of mean annual temperature and precipitation as the explanatory variables. Overall, 424 species were recorded: 25 early successional arable land species (43% of all caught individuals), 116 forest species feeding on trees and shrubs, 33 forest species feeding on woodland herbs and lichens, 92 forest-steppe species, 116 grassland species, 28 wetland species, and 14 non-specialized generalists. The diversity of habitat-specialised species responded mainly to land use changes, whereas the diversity of generalists reflected long-term meteorological trends. Species richness of specialists whose habitats in the vicinity of the trap have declined in extent decreased, the numbers of those whose habitats remained intact did not exhibit any particular trend, whereas the numbers of generalists increased, and their diversity positively responded to warming. It is concluded that the habitat specialists and generalists react to environmental changes differently. Non-specialised species appear more sensitive indicators of climate changes than habitat specialists because for the latter the indication of climate changes can be overlaid by changes in habitat use.
90002620|The process of biological invasions is necessary to understand to prevent future invasions and their negative impacts. Ecological theory and empirical work can provide a framework for approaching the process. Extrinsic factors, such as disturbances, can increase the probability of a successful invasion through several mechanisms. Disturbances may decrease native species abundances, decrease species diversity, or change community composition. We conducted a microcosm experiment using a container protozoan and rotifer community to examine how disturbances and the timing of the invasion affected the probability of invasion success. Native species richness significantly decreased with disturbance presence, but total native abundance was not affected. Invader abundance and richness significantly increased with increasing disturbance. Invasion timing had no effect on invasion success, implying that changes in native abundance or biomass did not facilitate or prevent invasions. Several native species that dominated post-disturbance communities had lower abundance levels in no-disturbance and invasion treatments, indicating that species in this community may have exhibited trade-offs between competitive ability and disturbance tolerance. These results suggest that changes in species richness and composition are most important in facilitating invasions, and this may be the result of increased vulnerability to invasion in a post-disturbance community dominated by poor competitors. Understanding how species invasions are facilitated by community characteristics can provide further insight to identifying when communities are most vulnerable and how to prevent invasions.
24113364|The montane (shola) grasslands of Western Ghats, South India are a component of a landscape mosaic including the better-studied shola forests. The conservation of the grasslands depends upon understanding their ecology. This review compiles available information and aims to evaluate the conservation potential of these grasslands. Most studies on these grasslands are descriptive in nature. There is little information regarding habitat heterogeneity, landscape configuration, natural disturbance, grazing and productivity in maintaining the grasslands. Succession is poorly understood because of the short-term nature of most studies. Human activities have historically influenced these grasslands and will continue to do so in more intensive manner. Threats to these grasslands include habitat loss, fragmentation, fires, and invasive species.
90002413|The favoured state approach
24113528|The saline area of the Kiskunsg region of Hungary has varied micro-topographic conditions with different plant communities. This study was performed in a dry sandy grassland community (Potentillo arenariae-Festucetum pseudovinae So (1938) 1940) and a neighbouring saline sandy grassland community (Lepidio crassifolii-Puccinellietum limosae So (1947) 1957). These are located at different elevations and have completely different floristic composition and physiognomy due to the soil characteristics and water availability. We assessed how the different environmental conditions during summer period might alter some physiological traits of two dominant xerophytes of sandy grassland (Achillea collina L., Festuca pseudovina Hack. ex Wiesb.) and two halophytes of saline grassland (Lepidium crassifolium (W. et K.), Puccinellia limosa (Schur) Holmbg.). The relationship between soil water potential and water content showed lower water availability for plants in the saline habitat as the high water soluble sodium content (900-2000 ppm) of this soil type limits water absorption. Both halophyte species in this study exhibited lower K/Na ratio than xerophyte species. Between the two halophytes L. crassifolium can be described as a "leaf/shoot sodium accumulator" species while P. limosa as a "leaf sodium avoider" species. The four species differed in proline accumulation. The salt adapted species had multifold accumulation of proline as compared to species of dry sandy grassland. The three microhabitats differing in total plant cover offered different microenvironmental conditions for L. crassifolium. Proline content was twice higher in leaves of this species in the microhabitats with high soil Na+ content than in the closed microhabitat. Every species showed a transient reversible decrease of potential photochemical efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm) at midday during the study period. In the saline habitat the midday depression of Fv/Fm for L. crassifolium was much larger than in case of P. limosa which reflected its higher susceptibility to photoinhibition. In sandy grassland Fv/Fm of A. collina was smaller than that of F. pseudovina. Mesophyll succulence index (Sm) expressing the ratio of water content to chlorophyll content was the highest in L. crassifolium (1.6-2.2 g H2O mg-1 Chl). Sm was low in xerophyte species (0.5-1.1 g H2O mg-1 Chl), and the lowest value was found for the F. pseudovina (0.54 g H2O mg-1 Chl).
24113632|In the last decades, many works investigated the trophic structure of communities stressing, in particular, the role played by species in food webs (e.g., their trophic level and, more recently, their centrality). There exist some encouraging applications, but few details are known about the relationships between centrality measurements and trophic levels. In addition, these studies almost refer to unweighted trophic networks, despite the acknowledged need of investigating weighted webs. Here we aim to contribute to the synthetic treatment of these complementary issues by analyzing several indices of centrality and trophic level. Studying 19 ecosystems, we ranked the nodes according to their positional importance values (based on various centrality indices) and we compared the rank order of coefficients with unweighted or weighted trophic levels. Our goal was revealing potential biases in finding high centrality nodes among basal, intermediate and top species. We found that key species occupy intermediate positions of the trophic hierarchy. In case of unweighted data, trophic levels of key nodes do not deviate from trends displayed by the whole dataset. Significant differences were observed when using weighted data. These results contradict the common belief of many ecologists that identified top-predators and charismatic megafauna as main targets of conservation policies. We discuss the potential consequences of the observed features on ecosystem dynamics.
24113515|Changes in grassland flora and vegetation caused by inadequate management, primarily under-grazing and grasslands abandonment were studied in the south-east region of Serbia  Mt. Stara Planina, the largest mountain massif of the country. This mountain is one of the major centres of tertiary and endemic-relict plant species that remains in ravines, and glacial relics and mountain endemic species. The paper presents an analysis and comparison of previous (about 30 years ago) and current biodiversity of the most common grasslands, such as: ass. Festuco-Agrostietum vulgaris, Agrostio-Asphodeletum albae, Koelerietum montanae, Agrostietum vulgaris, Festucetum spadiceae, Nardetum strictae, Poetum molinerii-Plantaginetum carinatae, Poetum violaceae and Seslerietum coerulantis. Both environmental and human impacts on grassland vegetation were discussed and a proposal of sustainable grassland use and management is given.
24113644|Recent environmental and land use changes have made wildfires more frequent in natural habitats of the Kiskunsg Sand Ridge on the Hungarian Plain. In a study initiated 2.5 years after an extensive fire that destroyed half of the area of a sand grassland  juniper, poplar forest steppe habitat, we assessed the effects of fire on two generalist arthropod groups: spiders and carabid beetles, as well as on the vegetation. Utilizing the natural experiment situation, samples were taken by pitfalls and suction sampling during a 1.5 years period in four 1 ha blocks, two of which were on the burnt part of the habitat, and two in the unburnt control. At the time of the investigation, in the burnt area the vegetation in the grass layer showed a quick but not complete recovery, while the canopy layer of the juniper bushes burnt down with no sign of regeneration. Carabid beetles and spiders showed differences in recovery after fire. In the carabid assemblages of the burnt parts  compared to the unburnt control  there were over three times more beetles, out of which significantly more represented the macropterous life form and granivorous feeding strategy. There was a higher ratio of pioneer species and a simplified assemblage structure in the burnt area, which meant that the conservation value of the carabid assemblage became lower there. In contrast, for the spider assemblage quantitative changes in abundance and species numbers were not significant, and the differences in species composition did not lead to a decrease in conservation value. Spider species in the burnt plots could not be described as pioneer species, rather they had ecological characteristics that suited the changed vegetation structure. Comparing the two groups, to repopulate the burnt areas, dispersal abilities proved to be more limiting for carabids. However, in both groups a strong assemblage level adaptation could be observed to the postfire conditions. In spiders, species with a stratum preference for the grass layer prevailed, while in carabids individuals with granivore strategy gained dominance. Thus, despite the differences in their speed, basically both assemblages tracked vegetation changes. The effect of future fires will depend on their scale, as well as land-use practices, such as grazing, that interact with fire frequency and recovery. If extensive fires in the future permanently change the vegetation, then it would also lead to a fundamental change in the arthropod fauna.
90002420|For the investigation of diversity-productivity relationships under natural conditions, we present an operationally feasible measurement scheme explicitly considering the spatial organization of vegetation. We hypothesised that the spatial arrangement of the coexistence of species influences patch-level productivity. To characterise diversity, co-occurrences of species were recorded along oval transects allowing scaling by aggregation between 5 cm and 25 m. Productivity was characterised by field radiometric measurements, calibrated for leaf area and biomass, arranged in a sampling scheme scalable between 20 cm and 50 m. All data were collected along a slight resource gradient in the
90002361|A method for studying the response of vegetation to environmental gradients, based on the community niche and fuzzy set theory, is presented. The approach is illustrated using an example from perennial halophilous vegetation along the Northern Adriatic coast of Italy. Compatibility curves are obtained by fuzzy set theoretical methods, and are used to model the response functions ofplant associations to environmental gradients, including soil and ground water salinity, soil pH, soil and ground water temperature, percentage of sand, and variations in the ground water level. The compatibility curves summarize the similarity of a given plant community, with a particular value of an environmental variable, to the species combination of a given plant association. Compatibility curves offer an alternative approach to non-linear regression and best fit analyses normally used to model single species responses to environmental gradients. The approach is particularly useful given there is no single mechanistic model that can capture the exact shape of the functional response along environmental gradients, and given that environmental data are commonly affected by high levels of noise.
90002501|A detailed analysis of the relationship between woody types and environmental variables (pedological and topographical) was carried out inside the city of Rome. Twenty-three sample sites 100 m
90002504|For Lotka-Volterra population systems, a general model of
24113656|In an area disturbed by long-term extraction of ores of non-ferrous metals as well as by their preparation and processing, unexplained effects of heavy metals (Mn, Zn, Cu, Pb, Cd) of different soil concentrations and various degrees of vegetation cover on the species diversity and abundance of ground beetles habitat specialists and generalists in heavily changed forest ecosystems were monitored so far. We found that in environments characterized by extreme concentrations of heavy metals some forest specialists may prefer poorly wooded sites to fully wooded sites in an effort to avoid contaminated environment. Nevertheless, the majority of species remain good site indicators even under these conditions. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that all monitored variables had more or less significant effects on the spatial activity of ground beetles at the species level. Vegetation cover differentiating the species spectrum into forest and open habitat specialists proved to be a decisive factor. The analysis also revealed that forest specialists and generalists were, in addition to cover, associated with Mn concentrations and, on the contrary, responded negatively to the presence of Cu, Pb, Cd, Zn and high pH values. Open-habitat specialists were associated reversely.
90002362|Different sampling strategies are simulated by changing quadrat size, quadrat shape, sample size and the arrangement of quadrats in a tropical rain forest of Hainan (South China). The simulation uses enumeration data of trees, and derived variables such as species richness, species importance, and species population density, to compare the efficiency of the sampling. The results verify that greater sampling efficiency is to be expected using systematic sampling than random sampling. Quadrat size has substantial influence on parameter estimation, but quadrat shape has negligible effect except when the quadrat is extremely long and narrow.
24113597|We investigated the neighbourhood-scale effect of weeding on native plants in Lance McCaskill Nature Reserve, Canterbury, New Zealand. The reserve is an unproductive basin of limestone debris. Originally set up to protect the Castle Hill buttercup, Ranunculus crithmifolius var. paucifolius, the reserve also offers protection for nationally endangered species: Myosotis colensoi and Lepidium sisymbrioides. Our aim was to investigate whether removal of introduced plants increased the cover of remaining native species. We removed introduced plants, by hand, every year for 6 years from half of the plots. We used nonparametric multivariate analysis to compare overall species cover. The results suggest that weeding does benefit the native plants in this area. There was a significant difference in the mean of the overall native species cover between the weeded and the non-weeded plots. For the ten species measured, the mean area covered per square metre was higher in the weeded plots than in the non-weeded plots in most years of the study. There was considerable variation in the data and we discuss possible reasons for this.
24113368|Interactions between grassland ecosystems and vertebrate herbivores are critical for a better understanding of ecosystem processes, but diverge widely in different ecosystems. In this study, we examined plant responses to simulated red deer (Cervus elaphus L.) grazing using clip-plot experiments in a subalpine grassland ecosystem of the Central European Alps. We measured aboveground net primary production (ANPP) and phosphorus (P) concentration of leaf tissue from plants of two vegetation types with different grazing history. The experimental plots were placed on a soil-P gradient and subject to two different clipping treatments, which simulated moderate and heavy grazing, respectively. We found distinct differences in the response of both ANPP and P concentration in leaf tissues in the two vegetation types. Compared to moderate, heavy grazing simulation did not affect ANPP in the vegetation type adapted to grazing, but decreased ANPP in the non-grazing adapted vegetation type. High soil-P levels also had different effects on the response of the vegetation to clipping in the two vegetation types with different grazing history. ANPP correlated positively with soil-P in non-grazing adapted tall-grass vegetation, while in grazing adapted short-grass vegetation a positive relationship between soil-P and the P concentration in leaf tissues was found. Our experiments provide data for a better understanding of ecosystem processes in high-elevation grasslands of the Alps with possible implications for both nature conservation purposes in protected areas and the management of agriculturally used grasslands.
24113344|Giant hogweed (Heracleum mantegazzianum), a weed originating from the Caucasus and invasive in Western Europe, is frequently observed with myrmecophilic aphids, ants, and non-myrmecophilic aphids. The number of individuals of the two non-myrmecophilic, leaf-sucking aphid species, Paramyzus heraclei and Cavariella theobaldi, are negatively correlated with the growth of giant hogweed in its native habitat. A cavity at the stem basis of giant hogweed, the domatium, lodges colonies of the obligate myrmecophilic, stem-sucking aphid Anuraphis subterranea. We found a positive correlation between relative plant growth, ant activity, and the number of myrmecophilic aphids. Because of the domatium size, A. subterranea populations are limited in growth and consequently the damage they inflict is limited. In contrast to the few other systems where three-partner mutualistic relationships are described, these partners appear to be more adapted to each other. This is the first report of an ant domatium from the temperate zone, and it is moreover the first experimental result presenting a system, from which a secondary domatium is able to evolve, because it is involving initial relations with aphids.
24113603|The abundance of terrestrial isopods (Isopoda: Oniscidea) was evaluated along an urban-suburban-rural gradient. We tested two hypotheses regarding the response of species: (i) habitat specialist hypothesis, according to which the abundance of the forest specialists would increase, while the abundance of the urban environment specialist isopods would decrease along the urban-rural gradient, and (ii) opportunistic species hypothesis (abundance of the generalist species would increase by increasing level of urbanization). The abundance of the forest specialist isopod Trachelipus ratzeburgii increased significantly along the studied gradient. An opposite tendency was observed for the abundance of the urban environment specialist isopod Porcellio scaber, as it was significantly higher in the urban area than in the suburban and rural sites. One generalist species (Trachelipus rathkii) gained dominance in the urban area, while other two generalists (Armadillidium vulgare and Porcellium collicola) showed no significant changes in abundance along the gradient.
90002409|Macroscopic ecosystem studies often complete our knowledge based on population-level experiments and models. In this paper, the changed control of ecosystem functioning is reported by analyzing the structure of the energy flow network of a tidal marsh community (Crystal River, Florida). The positional importance of trophic components is characterized by a graph theoretical approach. Then, positional importance of points is compared to the magnitude of fitting carbon flows (i.e., the importance of links) and the congruency is expressed in percents. These results are presented for both an unperturbed (control) and a thermally stressed creek ecosystem of the river. The comparison of average congruency values for the two communities suggests that, first, trophic control may be stronger in the stressed community and, second, the reliability of carbon flows is also higher in the stressed ecosystem.
90002469|We study the structure of two contrasting alpine forestpasture ecotones located in the Central Pyrenees (sites Ordesa and Tess). We define ecotone structure as the spatial distribution of trees of different size classes and growth-forms, and the relationship between these aspects and the spatial distribution of understory vegetation and substrate. The studied ecotones are dominated by
90002598|A discrete mathematical method, based on the Jak Iterative Canonical Forms (ICF) of Boolean functions is proposed for the analysis of species combinations and the detection of characteristic areas in plant communities. Information on species combinations (or florulas) appearing in a sample is expressed in compact form to reveal fundamental properties of community pattern. The new method provides a complementary tool for the florula diversity approach: whereas florula diversity is indicative of the frequency distribution of species combinations regardless their interrelationships, the new procedure detects complexity in the abstract structure of species combinations. Graph-theoretical representations of the ICF promote understanding the new method and visualizing its results. A cellular automata model and field data provide illustrative examples.
90002618|The study site is the Honghe National Nature Reserve, a Ramsar designated site on the Sanjiang Plain in Northeast China. We present results regarding the spatial pattern and structure of plant communities in these most important natural but continually diminishing freshwater wetlands of China to help promote both protection and restoration. By investigating three ecological levels (landscape, ecosystem and community), this paper quantifies the characteristics of spatial pattern with the aim to identify specific ecological correlations with different hydro-geomorphic features. Specifically, the research involves hierarchical mapping of vegetation types by use of remote sensed data, and the coupling of landscape indices with fluvial topographic zones that have been deduced by GIS from DEM. Statistics from historical survey data are also used to measure the degradation of marshes as well as the historical change of the hydrological regime. We found that dominant is the
24113672|The vegetation in the southern Brazilian highlands is characterized by Araucaria forest and Campos grassland. Evidences indicate that Araucaria forest is currently expanding over grassland and that this expansion may occur by nucleation or edge dynamics. Nucleation mechanisms of Araucaria forest expansion are well documented, whereas mechanisms of expansion starting from the forest edge are not. In this study, we aimed (1) to assess how prominent is Araucaria forest expansion over Campos grassland starting from the forest edge, and (2) to discuss about the possible mechanisms underlying sapling community colonization in grassland. We conducted our sampling in 11 transects disposed from the forest edge towards the grassland. The transects were distributed in four study sites. Each transect was 50 m long and was divided into 25 plots with area of 8 m 2 . All forest woody sapling individuals were identified and registered. We considered distance from forest edge, presence of dead shrubs, Baccharis uncinella cover, nurse tree cover and rock cover as predictors of forest plant abundance and composition. Niche and distance contribution on the explanation of sapling composition and abundance were partitioned using, respectively, canonical correspondence analysis and multiple regressions. Cover of nurse trees explained almost 31% of total variation in sapling abundance, followed by the distance from the forest edge that explained 6.9%. Site explained 7.6% of total variation in sapling species composition, followed by distance from the forest edge, which explained 2.3%, whereas niche had a minor (2.1%) and non-significant proportion of variation explanation. Our findings show that Araucaria forest expansion over native grasslands in southern Brazil relies deeply on the nurse plant effect. Previous studies have demonstrated that Araucaria forest forms nuclei scattered in the grassland where nurse plants or nurse rocks are established. Here, we bring evidences that nurse plants are important also to the tree encroachment starting closer to the forest edge. This study provides new information on the mechanisms involved in the forest expansion over native grasslands.
24113537|The ability of macroecological approaches to identify the mechanisms that underlie spatial patterns in species richness has been heavily debated in part because of continued attention to the role of scale-dependence in the mechanisms regulating biodiversity. Here we show that species abundance is a scale-independent predictor of species richness for riverine fish. We modelled local species richness of riverine fish in 976 rivers in the continental United States and used this parameterized local model to predict regional species richness at increasingly coarser scales that were defined according to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Ecoregion classes (Ecoregion III: fine scale, Ecoregion II: medium scale, and Ecoregion I: coarse scale). We found that the locally parameterized model predicted species richness most accurately at the coarsest scale, explaining 80% of the variability in total species richness. An inverse set of models, which used the coarsest scale data to parameterize models tested at finer scales, showed that 38% of the variability in local species richness was explained by the coarse scale model. Total abundance was the single most important predictor of species richness across all scales with a slope ranging from 0.4-0.56 on a log-log plot. Although the specific mechanisms linking total species richness and energetic constraints may be scale-dependent, total abundance may be a scale-independent predictor of the total number of species that can be supported in a given area.
90002473|Past inability to come to a consensus about the degree of functional redundancy in ecosystems may be due, in part, to different definitions of ecosystem function and different investigative methodologies. Here I define ecosystem function, using the largely plant-based functions of aboveground productivity and decomposition of 10 common early successional trees found in Puerto Rico, and then use two different multivariate techniques to define functional groups. I found that: (1) multivariate statistical methods worked well to sort out the test species on axes defined primarily by productivity, which may have more redundancy than decomposition, and initial leaf nutrient content, (2) there were four plant functional groups defined by species (i)
90002617|Community composition may be determined by a variety of factors, including habitat dimension, abiotic conditions, and biotic interactions. Habitat dimensions may influence abiotic conditions, thus modifying community structure or biotic interactions. We used six different mesocosm sizes, two depths crossed with three surface areas, to test hypotheses regarding the direct and indirect effects of habitat dimensions (depth and surface area) on dissolved oxygen concentration and insect communities in artificial water-filled treeholes. Containers were monitored for dissolved oxygen concentrations and insect community composition from June 2002 to November 2003. We predicted that deep mesocosms would have lower species richness and insect larval densities than shallow due to less dissolved oxygen at deeper depths, and that large surface area mesocosms would have greater species richness and abundance of insects than small. Larger surface area habitats may attract more insects because they are easier to find and perceived by ovipositing females to be more stable. Dissolved oxygen concentrations ([DO]) at depth were consistently lower in deep than shallow habitats, and mosquito densities and species richness were lower in those deep mesocosms compared to shallow mesocosms. We found higher insect richness at certain times of the year in large and medium than in small surface area mesocosms. By modifying abiotic factors such as [DO], dimensional aspects of the habitat, in this case depth, may affect community structure in ways not predicted simply by habitat size.
90002487|We offer a new framework for cellular automata modeling to describe and predict vegetation dynamics. The model can simulate community composition and spatial patterns by following a set of probabilistic rules generated from empirical data on plant neighborhood dynamics. Based on published data (Lippe et al. 1985), we apply the model to simulate Atlantic Heathland vegetation dynamics and compare the outcome with previous models described for the same site. Our results indicate reasonable agreement between simulated and real data and with previousmodels based on Markov chains or on mechanistic spatial simulation, and that spatial models may detect similar species dynamics given by non-spatial models. We found evidence that a directional vegetation dynamics may not correspond to a monotonic increase in community spatial organization. The model framework may as well be applied to other systems.
90002412|The relationship between species diversity and ecosystem functions has generated considerable debate among ecologists. Ecosystem functions (e.g. productivity, nutrient retention) are often positively correlated with species richness in experimental plant assemblages, but little or no correlation exists in natural communities. We examined the effects of species richness on productivity and available soil nitrate by experimentally manipulating richness using random draws from a pool of ten perennial grasses. Species richness had no significant effect on aboveground productivity or soil nitrate availability, suggesting that functional diversity may be more important than species richness in determining ecosystem functions. The relationship between diversity and ecosystem functions may also depend on resource limitation. A positive relationship is expected when below-ground resources are limiting, but the relationship is expected to weaken when below-ground resource supply rates are higher and competition for light becomes more important. Further experiments are required to determine the mechanisms underlying diversity-productivity relationships.
90002554|We examine literature on flooding as a disturbance on both sessile and mobile organisms. The limitations and assumptions of the Intermediate Disturbance Hypothesis (IDH) are identified and examined. We conclude that research on plants supports the IDH. In contrast, mobile invertebrates and vertebrates rarely support the hypothesis. Therefore, we strongly encourage investigators to consider explanations beyond the IDH when explaining community dynamics following floods.
24113514|Decreasing diversity and plant cover, as well as increasing variability of these characteristics with increasing aridity are expected in grasslands due to climate change. These predictions were tested in perennial sand grasslands in Hungary. Two sites were chosen in different positions on an aridity gradient and two stands in each site were monitored for 9 years. Presence of plant species were recorded along 52 m long circular belt transects of 1040 units of 5 cm x 5 cm contiguous microquadrats. This sampling procedure  a version of line-intercept methods  enabled us to monitor diversity and total abundance in a sensitive, precise and non-destructive way. We found no trend but fluctuation in most community level attributes and in species composition. Contrary to fluctuations, between-site differences in diversity did not change and diversity remained lower in the more arid site during our 9-year-study. Compositional diversity performed better than species diversity because allowed us to detect vegetation changes that would have remained hidden if monitoring would be based only on the species richness. Comparing the magnitudes of fluctuations, five times higher relative interannual variability (CV%) was found for compositional diversity at the more arid site, while the relative temporal variability of total abundance and species richness did not show consistent patterns. We conclude that a 9 year-long study was too short to identify trends caused by the changing climate. However, the larger temporal variability of species combinations found in the more arid site suggests larger vulnerability and highlights the importance of non-linear dynamics during climate changes.
24113565|A dense bamboo undergowth and thick layer of its slowely decaying litter belong to the main factors inhibiting the establishment of woody species in forest stands of northern Japan. The successful regeneration often hinges on bamboo dieback after mass flowering or small-scale disturbances that remove the understory cover and create open sites suitable for seed germination and growth. We conducted a field experiment with repeated observations of emergence and survival of tree seedlings in undisturbed Sasa senanertsis understory and experimental gaps simulating different disturbance events to determine mechanisms of bamboo interference with tree seedling regeneration. The experiments were repeated in four sites to test if seedling emergence was related to differences in site overstory composition and thus to differential seed input. Very few seedlings germinated under the Sasa layer and also few seedlings emerged in microsites where the Sasa above-ground biomass was removed but litter left intact. Only severe disturbance that exposed soil led to a significant increase in the number of seedlings. Smaller-seeded species with longer-distance seed dispersal such as Betula spp. and Abies sachalinensis were generally more abundant than larger-seeded species such as Quercus mongolica and Acer mono. The mechanism by which Sasa cover reduced seedling emergence was not uniform among tree species: emergence of smaller-seeded species  Betula spp, Abies sachalinensis and Picea glehnii  is reduced primarily by low levels of soil exposure, Acer mono emergence appears to be related to the reduced light level under Sasa cover, emergence of Kalopanax pictus and Phellodendron amurense is reduced by high litter production of Sasa, and Quercus mongolica suffered a high level of seed predation. The fact that seedlings of different species responded in different ways to particular treatments shows the importance of the regeneration niche for the maintenance of species diversity. The importance of bamboo understory as an ecological filter that shapes the future canopy composition and structure through differentially influencing tree species establishment is discussed.
24113557|We conducted a field study to determine whether species composition and environmental relationships were scale dependent among the strata of a temperate deciduous forest. We compiled tree basal area, woody understory density, field layer cover and three environmental variables from 378 permanent plots in ten 7  386 ha sites in the 294,455 ha Shawnee National Forest, southern Illinois, USA. The effect of changing sample foci (area of inference) without changing the extent (geographic space) on the relationship between species composition and environmental factors was quantified using Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling (NMDS) and Procrustes analysis separately for each stratum. Species composition-environment relationships showed a separation of sites based on their geographic location and bedrock. Species data collected from these heterogeneous and hierarchically structured habitats across scales exhibited varying degree of specialization depending on the habitat. NMDS showed that the species composition-environmental relationships were dependent on the sample foci and stratum investigated with the number of environmental variables related to the vegetation ranging from two-three at the landscape scale and zero-three at the site scale. Procrustes analysis showed that the species composition of individual sites was most frequently related to the physiographic division that the site occurred in rather than the landscape (58%, 18 of 30 comparisons). This relationship was less frequent in the tree stratum than the lower strata. The results of this study are consistent with the hierarchical continuum concept in that the recognition of species-environment relationships depends upon the scale of analysis. From a management perspective it is important to consider these scale relationships to manage the physiographic divisions and the sites within them depending on conservation issues and the priorities of local land managers.
90002546|We propose a simple mathematical framework to define consistently the environmental quality of a given landscape based on the relative abundances of the constituting land cover classes. Unlike traditional diversity measures, the new method does not evaluate the simple dispersion of the relative abundances of land cover classes, but assigns a weight to each land cover class according to the rank along a gradient of environmental quality. To clarify the ideas discussed, the method is illustrated with data from a pilot study to assess landscape changes in an Italian periurban area over the last 50 years.
24113594|The influence of simulated climate change on soil respiration was studied in a field experiment on 4 m x 5 m plots in the semiarid temperate Pannonian sand forest-steppe. This ecosystem type has low productivity and soil organic matter content, and covers large areas, yet data on soil carbon fluxes are still limited. Soil respiration rate  measured monthly between April and November from 2003 to 2006  remained very low (0.09  1.53 mol CO2 m-2 s-1) in accordance with the moderate biological activity and low humus content of the nutrient poor, coarse sandy soil. Specific soil respiration rate (calculated for unit soil organic matter content), however, was relatively high (0.36  7.92 mol CO2 g-1Corg h-1) suggesting substrate limitation for soil biological activity. During the day, soil respiration rate was significantly lower at dawn than at midday, while seasonally clear temperature limitation in winter and water limitation in summer were detected. Between years, annual precipitation appeared to be important in determining soil carbon efflux intensity. Nocturnal warming increased soil temperature in 1 cm depth at dawn by 1.6C on the average, and decreased topsoil (0-11 cm) moisture content by 0.45 vol%. Drought treatment decreased soil moisture content by an average of 0.81 vol%. Soil respiration rate tended to decrease by 7-15% and 13-15% in response to heat and drought treatment, respectively, although the changes were not statistically significant. Nocturnal warming usually prevented dew formation, and that probably also influenced soil respiration. Based on these results, we expect a reduction in the volume and rate of organic matter turnover in this ecosystem in response to the anticipated climate change in the region.
90002568|Ad hoc decisions during fieldwork reduce the accuracy and reliability of vegetationmaps. A method is proposed to objectify vegetation (thematic aspects) mapping (spatial aspects) for monitoring (temporal aspects). The most accurate and reliable description of the vegetation is a list of all plant species found within a plot. Therefore, the proposed method is an interpolation of a spatially representative sample of permanent plots combined with aerial photo interpretation. The method is objective because surveyors do not have to make decisions during fieldwork based on their personal judgement. Moreover, it is flexible, because the classification and interpolation methods can be adapted to specific views or needs depending on the aim of a study.
90002360|The recovery process of a Dutch heathland after fire is investigated. The study area. 12 m x 20 m. has been surveyed yearly between 1963 and 1993. Previous work has shown that a stationary Markov chain models the observed recovery process well. However, the Markov model fails to capture an important observation, the existence of a phase structure. The process begins deterministically, but small random (non-Markov) effects accumulate through time and at some point the process suddenly becomes noisy. Here we make use of the spatial information contained in vegetation maps to examine dynamics at a fine spatial scale. We find that the phases observed at a large spatial scale separate themselves out distinctly at finer spatial scales. This spatial information allows us to investigate hypotheses about the mechanisms governing deterministic versus noisy vegetation dynamics.
90002497|Clonal populations are hierarchically organized: genetic individuals (genets) can consist of many physiological individuals (ramets). Each ramet takes up resources from its local environment, but the resource pattern can be reorganized within the clone by transport between ramets. Thus, an integrated clone is not directly subject to the pattern of resource availability in its habitat. Local shortages can be compensated, hence, the clone can buffer itself against spatio-temporal heterogeneity in the habitat. We modelled a series of habitat types, assuming that one limiting resource was patchily distributed in space, and could fluctuate over time. Habitat types differed in the density, size and persistence of resource patches, and in the contrast between resource-rich patches and the resource-poor background. We applied an individual-based, spatially explicit population dynamic model to compare the performance of two plant strategies in these habitat types. In the Integrator, ramets that were interconnected distributed the resource evenly. In the Splitter, no resource translocation occurred. First we observed population growth of the two strategies separately, then in competition. We found a range of habitat types, where none of the strategies was viable, because of the scarcity of resource patches. As the density of resource patches was increased, first only the Integrator could persist. Then, at intermediate densities of resource patches, the Splitter became viable, and. being a stronger competitor, excluded the Integrator. Finally, at high resource-patch densities, the Integrator occupied the area again. Since the Splitter was viable at high density of resource patches when growing alone, its disappearance is more due to spontaneous extinction, due to competitive exclusion by the Integrator. We predict, therefore, the dominance of integrated clones both in extremely unproductive and productive environments, but for different reasons. It is important to note that this trend was observable only at high spatial and temporal variation in resource availability. Less contrast between patches of different quality, smaller patch sizes, or longer persistence of patches facilitated the dominance of the Splitter. Thus, buffering is advantageous in many but not all habitat types.
24113401|A prediction from the herbivore optimization hypothesis is that for every combination of site/habitat type and plant community type there is a grazing intensity that causes a maximum increase in above-ground net primary productivity compared with the ungrazed control. NPP is defined as the rate of change in green, herbaceous biomass per unit time per unit area. We tested this hypothesis in the primary summer range of a growing population of wood bison (Bison bison athabascae) within the Mackenzie Bison Sanctuary, Northwest Territories, Canada. Plots (0.5  0.5 m2) in graminoid meadows dominated by awned sedge (Carex atherodes) were either clipped at 3 cm, exposed to wood bison grazing, temporarily protected for 3 weeks, or permanently protected. This resulted in the removal of 100%, 0-79%, 0-79% or 0%, respectively, of shoot tissue available to wood bison. NPP of meadows clipped twice at 3 cm in 1986 was the same as control NPP at 5 study sites. In 1987, only the 2 most productive study sites of 1986 were intensively examined: plots clipped once in early summer increased in NPP by 120% and 133% compared to controls; NPP of meadows grazed by wood bison increased by 200% compared to controls at the most productive site, but remained the same as controls at the less productive site. Therefore, the herbivore optimization hypothesis was accepted at the 2 most productive sites in 1987, but rejected at all 5 study sites in 1986. In 1987, the standing crop of dead material was 258% and 142% higher in controls than in grazed plots at the 2 most productive sites. We think this dead material was responsible for the lower NPP observed in control plots.
90002615|The rational definition of spatial analysis units is critical to modeling and understanding large-scale ecological processes. This study assessed the relationship between forest-edge habitat pattern and Lyme disease incidence rate when modeled under three designs for spatial data aggregation. Incidence rates were calculated from passive surveillance data reported for 12 counties in the U.S. State of Maryland during 19962000. A design using road-bounded polygons that varied in size from 0.002 km
24113711|In studies on the partitioning of resources, one issue which has been largely neglected is the change in feeding habits based on the availability of food in the environment, an aspect which is dealt with here with regard to the ichthyofauna of a tropical stream. Feeding preference was analyzed for eight species of fish which consumed high percentages of aquatic insects, based on a collection of fish and invertebrates during both the dry season (June 2006) and the wet season (December 2006) and in two different stretches of the stream, one of which shaded by gallery forest ("closed area") and the other just bordered by herbaceous vegetation ("open area"). Based on a quantitative analysis of the composition of the benthic fauna and the diet of the ichthyofauna, the electivity index was calculated in order to assess potential alterations in the feeding preferences in line with seasonal and spatial modifications to the structure of the habitat and the supply of food. The analysis of the abundance of aquatic insects in the environment showed a predominance of Ephemeroptera in all situations analyzed (areas and seasons), with this insect group being the food item preferred by the majority of fish. However, space-time variations were observed in prey selection by the ichthyofauna. The analysis of supply, consumption and preference demonstrated somewhat varied situations for the majority of species, with both high and low selectivity for items consumed in low and high percentages, with the preferred item varying both spatially and seasonally. The sole exception to this was Phalloceros harpagos, choosing DipteraChironomidae in all the situations analyzed.
24113360|Studies addressing the question of how communities develop reported contrasting temporal patterns of species associations during succession. Several hypotheses were formulated about succession, but a general explanation of community assembly is missing. We analysed trends of species associations during old-field succession in two contrasting habitats: the first with chernozemic brown forest soil and temperate climate, and the second with sand soil and dryer climate. Significant pair-wise associations were calculated across a range of spatial scales. Comparing the two succession seres, one under harsh and the other under favourable environment, we attempted to make generalisations about species relation patterns. We found no trend but fluctuation in the level of community organization during succession. None of the existing succession models explained our results about changes in spatial structure of grassland communities during succession. Fluctuation in the number of significant associations was more intense and took longer under less favourable environmental conditions. Our results suggest that the stressed habitat type posed stronger constraints on species coexistence during succession than the favourable habitat did, but validating this hypothesis needs further investigations.
24113714|We investigated how the small-mammal community is structured in a deciduous forest in southern Brazil, analysing the patterns of vertical and horizontal distribution. We used 12 transect lines, with 180 live-traps distributed on the ground and in the understory, and 12 pitfall traps in total. During six field sessions, we captured 510 individuals belonging to 12 small-mammal species. The combination of different methods of capture resulted in a relative high species richness for the area, although the presence of additional species cannot be ruled out. The forest complexity plays an important role allowing the coexistence of cursorial, scansorial and some arboreal species in this community. The structural variables, liana and bamboo, were the most important ones for species richness. However, the dominant species, Akodon montensis was associated to sites with dense vegetation at ground level such as ferns, bamboos, and shrubs.
24113560|Habitat fragmentation increases the temporal variability in species richness and abundance of forest birds. Therefore, changes in the ecological interactions at which birds are engaged might be transient. Furthermore, despite changes in insectivory rates might have cascading effects if such changes are permanent, there are no evaluations of the persistency of changes in insectivory rates. In this study, we assessed the persistency of changes in insectivory in forest fragments, comparing the intensity of insectivory upon artificial insect larvae at three different years at a single site in central Chile. In coastal Maulino forest, the intensity of insectivory is persistently higher in forest fragments compared to continuous forest. An increase in insectivory might reduce herbivorous insect abundance which is translated into higher growth rates in seedlings at forest fragments, a factor that is changing forest dynamics. Our study suggests that the variation in bird insectivory on fragmented forest is a permanent phenomenon, which might have profound implication for the dynamics of the forest remnants.
24113555|Activity and functional diversity of rhizosphere bacterial communities and fungal composition were studied in order to assess the effects of different genotypes (N8035, N224 and N8637) of Arabidopsis thaliana on these communities growing in different soils. Genotype effect and soil effect were studied independently. Also, the interactions between both factors (genotypes and soils) were considered. The activity was determined by thymidine and leucine incorporation analysis, and Biolog ECO plates were used to study bacterial functional diversity. Additionally, fungi groups (genera and/or species) were studied in the different rhizospheres. Statistical differences on thymidine incorporation between plant genotypes were only found in two of the soils. In addition, functional diversity (measured by Shanonn-Weaver index), showed statistical differences only in soil 1 for line N8035 (line B) vs. the other lines. Redundancy analysis (RDA) performed with Biolog data indicated and important effect of soil type, but also an effect of genotype since line N8035 (line B) was separated from the other lines within each soil in the RDA ordination, in spite of genotypic differences between them were minimum. Furthermore, carboxylic acids and amino acids were found to be the Biolog plate substrates with more influence in samples ordination in the Redundancy Analysis (RDA). However, fungi seem to be less labile to plant selection than bacteria probably due to a lower turn-over time of fungi than bacteria coupled with the short phenology of Arabidopsis. In this paper, plant-soil-microorganism relationships in the rhizosphere were studied, and the complex interactions between them were highlighted. More studies are necessary to go deep in these interactions and to be able to asses the impact of genetically modified plants.
24113348|Diversity relationships of carabids in forest edges and the neighbouring forest interior and the surrounding grassland were studied. Samples were taken along three replicated forest-grassland transects using pitfall traps in the Vrghi-valley (Harghita County, Romania). The study revealed significant edge effect on the carabids. Both the number of species and the Shannon diversity of carabids were significantly higher in the forest edge than in the grassland and in the forest interior. The forest was also significantly more species rich and more diverse by Shannon diversity than the grassland. Carabids of the forest interior, forest edge and grassland can be separated from each other by ordination based on abundances, suggesting that all three habitats have a distinct species assemblage. Indicator species analysis detected significant edge associated species. Our results show that the high diversity of carabids in forest edges is due both to the edge-associated species and the presence of species characteristic of the adjacent habitats.
24113550|Fish assemblages along marine artificial reefs have been the objects of numerous studies. Most of them distinguish resident from transient species according to their habitat association level. Despite its wide use, this distinction presents practical complications for two main reasons: first, the method used for assessing habitat association level may cause mistakes, and second, no objective method has been proposed thus far to determine the habitat association level that should be considered as a boundary between resident and transient species. This paper aims at overcoming these two problems. In order to improve and standardize assessment of habitat association level, we developed a habitat association index (HAI) whose calculation requires only presence-absence data. By taking into account both species occurrence rate and occurrence patterns, our index minimizes the risk of erroneously perceiving species as being equally associated to a habitat. In order to distinguish between resident and transient species objectively, we propose to plot HAI against occurrence rate and then seek the combination providing the most significantly different groups with reference to the relation between these two variables. Using two different datasets collected along Japanese artificial reefs and comparing the results with the ones obtained through an alternate method consisting of plotting persistence against maximum abundance and looking for a major gap along the persistence axis, we demonstrate the effectiveness of this two-step method.
24113564|Spatial distribution modelling can be a useful tool for elaborating conservation strategies for tree species characterized by fragmented and sparse populations. We tested five statistical modelsSupport Vector Regression (SVR), Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS), Gaussian processes with radial basis kernel functions (GP), Regression Tree Analysis (RTA) and Random Forests (RF)for their predictive performances. To perform the evaluation, we applied these techniques to three tree species for which conservation measures should be elaborated and implemented: one Mediterranean species (Quercus suber) and two temperate species (Ilex aquifolium and Taxus baccata). Model evaluation was measured by MSE, Goodman-Kruskal and sensitivity statistics and map outputs based on the minimal predicted area criterion. All the models performed well, confirming the validity of this approach when dealing with species characterized by narrow and specialized niches and when adequate data (more than 40-50 samples) and environmental and climatic variables, recognized as important determinants of plant distribution patterns, are available. Based on the evaluation processes, RF resulted the most accurate algorithm thanks to bootstrap-resampling, trees averaging, randomization of predictors and smoother response surface.
90002588|We investigated the pattern of boundary types in alkaline grassland communities in Hungary. We used moving split window boundary analysis with dissimilarity functions, usually applied to detect ecotones and landscape boundaries at a coarse scale. The results were compared with those of correspondence analysis and clustering methods for the same data set, as well as with the local frequency distributions of populations along the studied transects.
24113708|Interactions of Liometopum microcephalum with other two territorial ants also nesting in or foraging on trees, Lasius fuliginosus and Formica rufa, were studied in South Moravia (Czech Republic), at the northwestern border of its range, in 2005-2009. L microcephalum defends its nest and foraging trees. Its distribution area is fragmented and in the north restricted to river floodplains. We investigated whether competition by other behaviourally dominant ant species could limit its distribution. We found six sites where nests of potential competitors were situated close to a L. microcephalum nest tree. We studied the partitioning of space (occupancy of foraging trees) between the species by observation and by lines of pitfall traps placed between nest trees of L. microcephalum and L. fuliginosus. These species avoided each other; the territory border changed over time. Worker interactions, including combats between L. microcephalum and F. rufa colonies, were observed in the field. Aggressive behaviour occurred close to the nest, on trails, foraging trees, and occasionally at food baits. In such situations, L. microcephalum took advantage of worker cooperation. Encounters of single workers were observed in laboratory experiments. L microcephalum, attacking primarily by biting, lost almost all combats with L. fuliginosus, being paralysed by its secretions. One-on-one encounters with F. rufa led less frequently to combat and chances were more even, but F. rufa prevailed more often. We confirmed the territorial behaviour of L. microcephalum. In the rare situations, in which its colonies occurred together with other territorial species, we observed conflicts but no total displacement of one species by another.
24113457|This study aimed at the effects of habitat age on the reproductive rate of three ground beetle species that are common and widely distributed in forest ecosystems of Europe (Abax parallelepipedus (Pill. & Mitt.), Pterostichus oblongopunctatus (F.), Pterostichus burmeisteri (Heer.)). The study sites comprised comparable age classes, i.e., young stands, mature stands, and mature forests with upcoming and established natural regeneration of four different forest types, namely pure stands of spruce and Douglas fir, and mixed stands of spruce-beech and oak-beech. As an indicator for the reproductive rate of female beetles, the number of ripe eggs in the ovaries and the duration of the reproduction period were investigated from captures of pitfall trapping (n = 8 per site). The dissection of a total of 1236 females uncovered 1704 eggs. A broad spectrum of environmental factors including microclimate (temperature, humidity, precipitation), soil parameters (moisture, pH, thickness and coverage of litter layer) and vegetation characteristics (coverage of moss, herb, grass, shrub and natural regeneration, degree of canopy closure) was assessed to reveal the relevant factors influencing the reproductive success. Within the forest types, the egg-load of the ground beetle species showed statistically significant relations to the age of the stand type. For A. parallelepipedus, a quite uniform reaction pattern was evident with significantly higher egg-loads in the mature forests compared to the young stands. This was accompanied by a longer duration of the reproduction period. A stronger influence of the forest type was obvious for the egg-load of Pt. oblongopunctatus and Pt. burmeisteri. The reproductive rate was generally increasing with temperature aspects in forest sites and was significantly influenced by moisture parameters. The mean maximum temperature of the habitat cared for most of the variation in A. parallelepipedus (61.4%), while the mean minimum temperature explained 60.7% of the reproductive potential in Pt. oblongopunctatus. The variation of Pt. burmeisteri was best explained by the humidity of the air (49.4%).Thus, the results of our study emphasize the role of abiotic parameters on the reproductive rate of ground beetles.
90002601|The floodplain herbaceous vegetation of the Paran River (Argentina) was destroyed by a catastrophic extraordinary flood in 1982-83. The main communities were
90002411|The influence of scale on the discernment of plant community patterns was examined using vegetation-environment data collected from a subalpine wet meadow in south-coastal British Columbia. Species cover data were recorded in 225, 0.25 m
24113591|The influence of water regime on the zonation of wetland communities, distribution patterns of plant species, ecological strategies and biodiversity, was studied in this work. Vegetation of the herbaceous wetland was sampled along a transect, in accordance with the standard central European method. Water level was also measured. The changes in plant species composition, plant functional types (ecological strategies, life forms) and diversity were studied. Classification of vegetation relevs enabled the definition of five grassland communities. The same pattern remained in DCA ordination also when the species matrix was replaced with a matrix of ecological strategies. Relevs were always segregated into distinct plant communities and distributed along the moisture gradient in the same way. Biodiversity is strongly negatively correlated with moistureit is decreasing with decreasing ground level. Plant ecological strategy types (C-S-R) change significantly along the transect as well. In communities thriving on the driest sites (Triseto-Centaureetum), there are three times more C- than C-S-strategists, while in the wettest sites (Caricetum elatae) C-S-strategists predominate over C-strategists by almost two times. At the same time R-and C-R-strategists, as well as therophytes, which are present in drier sites almost disappear in the wettest sites. We show that the moisture gradient essentially influences the distribution pattern of plant communities, species diversity, and manifestation of certain ecological strategy types.
90002582|Contrary to the past belief that the species richness-productivity relationship (SRPR) is characterized by a single true pattern, several analyses have shown that a heterogeneous distribution of SRPRs exists and that the patterns distribution of a SRPR is sensitive to the directness of the estimates of productivity. A simple conceptual model demonstrates that taking into account underlying relationships connecting productivity with species richness produces a heterogeneous distribution of relationships. We suggest that the search for a single pattern for SRPR has reached a dead end, and that we should direct our research focus to exploring the mechanisms responsible for the various SRPRs.
24113667|Beta diversity, species replacement and nestedness are often examined through pairwise comparisons ot sites based on presence-absence data, and the relative importance of these ecological phenomena is evaluated by operations with dissimilarity coefficients. An example is the nestedness resultant dissimilarity (NRD) procedure recently proposed by Baselga (2010, Global Ecology and Biogeography 19: 134-143) to disentangle the nestedness fraction of beta diversity from species replacement. In our view, the component terms in this measure are not scaled uniformly and the nestedness fraction cannot be quantified properly without giving clear definitions for its measurement. We suggest to distinguish among three additive fractions of the species set of two sites: number of species shared (overlap), species replacement (=spatial turnover) and richness difference. Then, absolute beta diversity is obtained as a composite of the second two fractions (known as  WB ), while nestedness is derived from the first and the third. To express beta diversity and nestedness in a relativized form, the respective sums are divided by the total number of species. These allow defining a new index to measure the fraction of beta diversity which is shared by nestedness as well, and is calculated as relativized richness difference with the condition that the two sites being compared have at least one species in common. It is called diversity-nestedness intersection coefficient (F). Baselga's nestedness resultant dissimilarity and the diversity-nestedness intersection coefficient are compared graphically using artificial and actual examples. These functions follow a mathematical relationship for perfectly nested data, otherwise their results are divergent. Discrepancy increases when beta diversity is large, especially if richness differences override species replacement effects in shaping presence-absence data structures. An advantage of F is its compatibility with a general theoretical and methodological framework for revealing pattern in presence-absence data matrices.
24113525|Salt affected soils especially in the arid and semi-arid regions of the world exhibit a significant increasing tendency. The relationship between plant/vegetation richness and soil salinity was assessed for 21 grassland asscociations and one subassociation of Serbia. Among studied grasslands, the ass. Halo-Crypsidetum aculeatae, Suaedetum maritimae and Salicornieto-Suaedetum maritimae were found to be indicators of the extremely saline soils (solonchak), whereas the ass. Lepidio crassifolio-Festucetum pseudovinae, Trifollietum subterranei and Peucedano-Asteretum punctati were typical indicators of sodic soils (solonetz). Management and use of grasslands of salt affected soils and evaluation of pastoral value and salinity tolerance of the studied grasslands was performed.
90002579|Species richness in an assemblage is frequently used as a measure of biological diversity. However, observed species richness is strongly dependent on sample size. If more samples are collected, then more species are observed. Non-parametric species richness estimators, such as the jackknife 1 and 2 and the Chao 1 and 2, are indicated in the literature as potential solutions to the problem of dependence of observed species richness on sampling effort. These methods are intended to estimate the total species richness in an area or assemblage with small sampling effort. Non-parametric estimators are based on the number of species observed, and the number of rare species in a sample, i.e., that occurred in one and/or two sampling units, or with one and/or two individuals. High estimates are produced when samples contain large proportions of rare species. Using a range of real datasets, I show that estimates produced by non-parametric methods are generally dependent on observed species richness. An implicit assumption of these non-parametric techniques is that the rare species curve should present high values at small sample sizes and decreasing values as sampling effort is increased. This assumption was observed in only one out of eight datasets presented. Instead, the rare species curve generally flattens off around a constant value as sampling effort increases. I conclude that non-parametric estimators are not reliable to estimate species richness in an assemblage when the rare species curve does not show a decreasing trend. Comments are made on the possibilities of using non-parametric estimators in the comparison of species assemblages.
24113399|Belowground soil characteristics are recognised as possible key factors in affecting plant species coexistence and community organisation. In this study, soil heterogeneity was generated by the growth of different herbaceous plants under controlled conditions, and thus related to growth and competitive ability of three naturally co-occurring species (Holcus lanatus, Inula viscosa and Pulicaria dysenterica). Soil changes induced by all species caused significant specific effects on the performance of these species and on their competitive hierarchies. Holcus lanatus was the strongest competitor on disturbed soil, but showed a dramatic negative feedback in monoculture. The experimental results are relevant for understanding community ecology and suggest that the investigation of species coexistence should take into account the possible role of plant-soil feedback processes.
90002596|In this paper, I examine the choice of response curves of plants to environmental gradients. The commonest choice has been a unimodal curve, of a shape similar to a Gaussian. This is implied, for example, by correspondence analysis. However, other alternatives are possible which may lead to different interpretations. We have therefore a problem of determining an appropriate model. In part the choice is constrained by our beliefs about the nature of the gradient and by sampling considerations, particularly the modifiable unit area problem. For the rest it is necessary to invoke Ockhams razor and employ a technique such as minimum message length estimation in order to facilitate comparison of models and classes of models. In this paper I examine the existence of gradient(s), the possible forms of response functions and the effects of data contamination.
24113517|Interannual variation of carbon fluxes of grasslands on sandy (5 years data) and heavy clay soils (4 years data) have been analysed. The sandy grassland was carbon sink in 3 (2004, 2005, 2006) out of the investigated 5 years. Its annual C-balance is precipitation limited, the relation seems strongly conservative, with r2 of 0.83. More than half of the net source activity fell to the summer droughts. The heavy clay grassland was net source of carbon in one year (2007) only with no whole year record from 2003, a drought and heat wave year. Dependence of the C-balance on precipitation was somewhat weaker (r2=0.57) than in the sandy grassland. Length of growing period showed less variation here compared to the sandy grassland. Recovery of sink activity after rains was much slower for the heavy clay grassland than for the sandy grassland. The reason behind is that the amount of water required to reach optimal soil water content for plant functioning is several times larger for the mountain grassland. This fact and the low conductivity of the clay soil for water decrease the heavy clay grassland's recovery potential after droughts. Owing to these soil characteristics, the clay grassland may be more vulnerable to droughts in terms of decreased C-assimilation and (soil) carbon losses under the predicted drier summers even if the annual precipitation sum was higher by 10.7% on average for the mountain compared to the sandy grassland. The annual precipitation sum is close to the threshold, below which the grasslands may turn into source of carbon. While in one hand this can be viewed as an example of ecosystem scale adaptation to available water, drought events also involve loss of soil carbon and a potential positive feedback between source activity and decreasing net primary production, on the other.
90002570|Long term vegetation monitoring provides valuable information on spatio-temporal patterns in plant communities that could be analysed to detect spatial relationship changes among species and to interpret dynamic tendencies and assembly rules in non-equilibrium phytocoenoses. In studies of this kind, one should take into account recent ecological theories emphasizing the scale dependence of vegetation; in particular, fine-scale spatial patterns of vegetation are important constraints in the genesis and maintenance of diversity. The information theory models of Juhsz-Nagy offer an appropriate tool for describing the relationship between diversity and multispecies spatial dependence in vegetation. Diversity (florula diversity) and spatial dependence (associatum) are calculated for a series of increasing plot sizes (spatial scaling). The plot sizes at which the two coenostate descriptors reach the maximum information represent the characteristic scales that should be considered as optimal plot sizes in monitoring data collection. Moreover, this methodology enables us to study non-equilibrium dynamics and assembly rules in a more effective way. Diversity and spatial dependence are related, but the power and direction of this relationship change according to environmental characteristics, vegetation type and successional context. The demonstrated correspondence between dominant pattern-generating mechanisms and the related trajectories in abstract coenostate spaces (florula diversity and associatum maximum values), obtained by exploratory simulation studies, can improve interpretation of dynamic state and vegetation tendencies and can support a better inference about the relative role of different background mechanisms. We present some results obtained using this methodology with field data from the forest of Biaowieza National Park (Poland). In particular, we compared the herb layer spatial patterns of dynamically contiguous regeneration phases of the same phytocoenosis. Sampling was performed by recording the presence of plant species in 10 cm x 10cm contiguous microquadrats arranged in 150 m long circular transects. Field data were analysed with the same information theory methods as the ones applied to simulated data. Results show that assemblages of plant individuals are less diverse and more associated in primary than in regenerating stands, suggesting, in both situations, competitive dominance and disturbance as the main ecological mechanisms. Thus, the method was proven effective in distinguishing slightly different dynamical processes.
90002407|Pressure-volume (p-V) analysis, instantaneous transpiration rate and relevant leaf structural information were used to compare leaf water relations for 23 angiosperm species from semiarid temperate loess-, sand- and saline steppe grasslands and several associated habitats representing a water availability gradient. For the species studied, the most marked differences occurred between grasses and dicots. Grasses in our survey possessed low (highly negative) osmotic potential both at water saturation and at turgor loss, moderate transpiration rate, relatively high leaf dry matter proportion (DMP) and - except for the sclerophyllous
24113657|In Europe, epiphytic lichens are incorporated in forest diversity monitoring projects in which sampling at the tree level is carried out on 4 grids on the 4 cardinal points (N, S, E, W) of the trunk. Our results, based on the analysis of a dataset referring to six forest sites in NE-Italy and including 264 trees, indicate that a lichen assessment based on sampling at the tree level less than four cardinal points might be effective in estimating species richness across different forest types, showing very high rates of species capture. Similar results were achieved if the reduction of sampling effort is applied to the number of trees sampled within each area. This effect can be explained taking into account the redundant information collected on the same tree. In the framework of forest monitoring programs, the main perspective of our results is related to the possibility of investing saved resources for improving lichen inventories by including in the surveys currently neglected microhabitats. Further studies would be welcome to identify an optimal balance between sampling effort and information gathered, as economic resources are often a constraint to activate and maintain large-scale and long-term monitoring projects.
24113650|In this paper we examine the use of the minimum message length criterion in the process of evaluating alternative models of data when the samples are serially ordered in space and implicitly in time. Much data from vegetation studies can be arranged in a sequence and in such cases the user may elect to constrain the clustering by zones, in preference to an unconstrained clustering. We use the minimum message length principle to determine if such a choice provides an effective model of the data. Pollen data provide a suitably organised set of samples, but have other properties which make it desirable to examine several different models for the distribution of palynomorphs within the clusters. The results suggest that zonation is not a particularly preferred model since it captures only a small part of the patterns present. It represents a user expectation regarding the nature of variation in the data and results in some patterns being neglected. By using unconstrained clustering within zones, we can recover some of this overlooked pattern. We then examine other evidence for the nature of change in vegetation and finally discuss the usefulness of the minimum message length as a guiding principle in model choice and its relationship to other possible criteria.
90004006|This Essay is response to the general question that I put to myself:
90002586|In this paper, we use decision trees to construct models for predicting vegetation types from environmental attributes in a salt marsh. We examine a method for evaluating the worth of a decision tree and look at seven sources of uncertainty in the models produced, namely algorithmic, predictive, model, scenario, objective, context and scale. The accuracy of prediction of types was strongly affected by the scenario and scale, with the most dynamically variable attributes associated with poor prediction, while more static attributes performed better. However, examination of the misclassified samples showed that prediction of processes was much better, with local vegetation type-induced patterns nested within a broader environmental framework.
24113636|Functional response describes the rate at which a predator consumes prey. Handling time, duration that a predator spends on a captured prey for the consumption, is one of the parameters of many functional response models. Although models typically assume that handling time is static, most empirical studies that directly quantified the relationship between handling time and prey density show that handling time decreases with prey density. In this study, I compare a community model that employs density-dependent handling time and a model with static handling time for their responses to enrichment. The density-dependent handling time is derived by assuming that predators adjust handling time to maximize their fitness. I show that the model with adaptive handling time is more robust to enrichment than the model with static handling time at realistic parameter values. Although community response to enrichment is used as an illustrative example, density-dependent handling time is a common empirical observation and would have general implications to ecological dynamics.
90002500|Species richness, the location of exotic species and heterogeneity (investigated via dissimilarity and via species-area relations) were investigated in relation to spatial scale, in an ecotone between
24113549|Three indirect light measurement methods were compared in mixed deciduous and coniferous forests with heterogeneous stand structure: tRAYci - a spatially explicit light model calculating percentage of above canopy light (PACL); LAI-2000 Plant Canopy Analyzer measuring diffuse non-interceptance (DIFN); and spherical densiometer estimating canopy openness (CO). Correlations between the different light variables were analyzed at several spatial scales (at 5  5, 10  10, 15  15, 20  20 and 30  30 m2). Relationships between light variables and the cover of a light flexible plant, blackberry (Rubus fruticosus agg.), as a potentially sensitive response variable for light conditions were also investigated. LAI-2000 (DIFN) and tRAYci (PACL) seemed the most appropriate for the description of the light environment in the investigated stands. DIFN and PACL had stronger correlations with each other and with blackberry cover than CO. Spatial heterogeneity of light (expressed with coefficient of variation) showed much stronger correlations than mean values both between the methods and between light intensity and Rubus cover. The correlation values between the methods increased towards coarser scales (from 5  5 to 30  30 m2), while the correlation between light intensity and blackberry cover had a maximal response at the scale of 20  20 m2 if a lower resolution of light estimation was used, and had also a maximum at smaller scales if the light was calculated for more points per plot by tRAYci. LAI-2000 can be recommended for the comparison of different stands, however, for fine scale description of light conditions of a stand tRAYci seems to be more appropriate.
24113666|The recruitment patterns of trees, shrubs and climbers were studied in two contrasting geographical areas in Venezuela: the Venezuelan Central Plain (VCP), and shrubland. The main purpose was to determine whether recruitment was simultaneously affected by adult plant abundance and relative fecundity in two different geographical areas, and if such relationships were influenced by life forms, vegetation types, dispersal syndromes, and within and between habitats in the VCP. Multiple regressions were used to determine the effect of adult plant abundance and relative fecundity on seedling and juvenile plant abundance. The relative abundance of juvenile plants increased significantly with the simultaneous increment of relative adult abundance and relative fecundity. However, the best predictor of plant recruitment was adult plant abundance. The effect of adult abundance and the fecundity of life forms on recruitment varied according to habitat in the VCP. Significant regressions were also found for species with animal dispersed plant species in the VCP and animal and wind dispersed species in the shrubland. This agrees with the associations between shrubs with animals dispersal in the VCP. Although plants tended to recruit mainly in those habitats where the parent plants were found, recruitment also depended upon the fecundity and adult abundance of plants from different habitats. It is suggest that there is a progressive colonization from the forest to the forest border and from the border to the savanna, and that there is a high interdependence between adjacent habitats for recruitment in the VCP.
24113454|The distribution of plant communities and the pattern of species diversity were studied along an altitudinal gradient in the northwestern Red Sea region. A total of 58 stands were studied, using ten quadrats (10 m  10 m) per stand. The classification of vegetation using the Two Way Indicator Species Analysis (TWINSPAN) identified five groups representing different altitudinal ranges. Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) clearly distinguished these groups by the first two DCA axes. Edaphic factors such as soil texture, CaCO3, organic carbon, and electrical conductivity contribute to the distribution of plant communities. Species richness, Shannon-index of diversity and evenness show a hump-shaped curve along the altitudinal gradient, whereas beta diversity decreases with elevation. Variation in the diversity and the distributional behaviour of plant species and plant communities in the study area may be attributed to the change of water resources, climatic factors, edaphic variables and anthropogenic pressures along the elevation gradient. The implications of the results are discussed and recommendations are suggested for conservation and sustainable utilization of vegetation.
90002476|It is an essential property of diversity indices that increases in the abundance or frequency of the most frequent species result in a decline in diversity, whereas increases in the abundance of the rarest species lead to an increase in diversity. At the same time, without resort to mathematical operations, it is difficult to determine the sign and measure of alteration in diversity when increasing an additional frequency while leaving all others unaltered. A more concrete task is to determine the index response to a partial alteration of fixed percentage in the frequencies of the multi-species community or collection. Plotting the observed responses or sensitivity values against the frequencies concerned makes possible a good overview of the sensitivity relations. The mathematical groundwork of sensitivity analysis with respect to diversity indices has already been elaborated. To date, however, the methodological possibilities engendered by such analyses have yet to be exploited.
24113343|This study is part of a general project to analyse the biological and ecological mechanisms that influence the invasion of Mediterranean sand dune ecosystems by alien plants. In this paper we analyse the morphological and functional traits of coastal dune wild species (natives and aliens) based mainly on information from the literature. The most common 130 wild species occurring on the recent (Holocenic) coastal dunes were included considering the invasive status of alien plants. A comparative analysis of functional groups was performed through ordination techniques (PCoA using the Gower index). This reveals four functional groups related to the most important plant communities in coastal vegetation zonation. Alien plants were found in all functional groups and no trait or set of traits was specifically related to them. This indicates that aliens show similar traits to those natives growing in different communities of the coastal dune zonation, from the small beach annuals to the evergreen taller shrubs of the Mediterranean macchia. When the invasive status of alien species was taken into account, however, some differences emerged: a) casual aliens were found in almost all groups but their traits were not interpreted as being due to any particular adaptive strategy; b) naturalised aliens were only found in the less fluctuating habitats of the inner coastal zones; c) invasive alien species were connected with two major plant strategies: annual invasive aliens (quick-to-mature low grasses and herbs) and perennial invasive aliens (taller and often strongly clonal).
90002572|The objective of the present study was to develop a model to predict lichen species richness for six test sites in the Swiss Pre-Alps following a gradient of land use intensity combining airborne remote sensing data and regression models. This study ties in with the European Union Project
24113715|Boreal mixedwood understory communities are highly dynamic because they are simultaneously influenced by canopy succession, small-scale environmental variation and disturbances. In such a system, fire initiates succession but canopy gaps, resulting from spruce budworm outbreaks or other disturbances, also affect forest dynamics during succession. In this study, we assessed the short-term response of understory communities along a canopy gap severity gradient in mature and old-growth forest stands. The objective was to determine if resource heterogeneity is driving understory community composition and diversity. We created artificial gaps of varying severities in stands of two late successional forest stages. Four treatments, i.e., total cut, conifer cut, girdling of conifers and a control treatment, were each applied over an area of 100 m2 and replicated three times in both types of forest stands. The cover of each understory species was measured before treatment application and 1, 2 and 11 years following it, in seven 1 m 2 plots per replicate. Percent transmission of photosynthetic photon flux density and soil temperature were also measured on different occasions after the beginning of the experiment. Species richness, alpha diversity and total cover all increased following gap creation, and this increase was sustained up to 11 years. Increases were more pronounced in total cut than in other treatments. The increase in species richness and diversity was also more pronounced in old-growth stands, while total cover increase was greater in mature stands. Gap creation resulted in significant changes in abundance patterns that were associated with the resident species assemblages. The magnitude of changes in community composition did not significantly differ between mature and old-growth forests and differences in species composition among stands were maintained following gap creation. This study supports the evidence that resource heterogeneity resulting from small-scale disturbances will contribute to maintaining diversity among understory communities by allowing species more typical of early-successional communities to coexist with species from late-successional ones. Such a process may be essential for maintaining the species pool likely to re-invade the stands following major disturbances.
24113675|This study describes plant species diversity in well preserved dry coastal dune systems along the southern Baltic coast. Variations in diversity and in distributional character of plant species and plant communities throughout the study areas result mainly because of the interplay between plant succession, exposure, disturbance and resource availability. Environmental indicator values, used to describe dynamics in dune habitats, show a decline of light and temperature with increased distance to the sea, accompanied by higher soil moisture due to accumulation of organic matter. Species richness and species diversity showed a humped-shaped curve along a coast-to-inland gradient. The highest species richness of vascular plants and cryptogamic species were found in plant communities of grey dunes at intennediate levels of environmental and disturbance gradients, which confirms the intermediate disturbance theory.
24113501|The study presents an analysis of spatial and structural diversity of Sal (Shorea robusta), the dominant species of sal forests in Bangladesh by using a neighbourhood analysis approach. The simple field method permits relatively unskilled persons to collect data. Most of the indices can be calculated in the field and the data analysis is comparatively easy. Therefore, the applicability of the method was tested by using different setting of reference trees compared with the full sampling for each plot in the Madhupur sal forests. The results indicate that a group of one reference tree and its four neighbours can be used efficiently to describe the spatial and structural diversity in homogeneous young forests at low costs and in short time. The indices can be easily interpreted allowing quantitative comparisons between different types of forest stands. Sal can be considered as the dominant and comparatively faster growing species than other associate species.
24113721|We evaluated the functional relevance of diaspore traits related to disperser attraction (DAT) of woody plants as indicators of plant-disperser mutualisms in the colonization of Araucaria forest patches in southern Brazil. Diaspores of colonizer plant genera were characterized in relation to DAT (diaspore type, size and color). We discriminated the influences of phylogenetic relationships among plant genera, forest patch size and interaction records with frugivorous birds on DAT by using variation partitioning based on Redundancy Analysis (RDA). DAT variation was poorly explained by each factor separately. Nonetheless, variation explanation shared between phytogeny and interactions was considerably high, indicating that the influence of interactions with frugivorous birds on DAT tended to be phylogenetically conserved. Furthermore, the variation related to patch size was high only when shared with phytogeny and interactions. Large, red, orange or brown diaspores, mainly berries and figs were related to more developed patches, while small to medium, violet or black drupes were related to small patches. Patch colonization is likely to result from a balance between plant responses to habitat conditions and plant diaspore traits, which is expected to influence seed deposition patterns depending on habitat use and diaspore handling by dispersers. Although phylogenetic habitat filtering is commonly thought to reflect ecophysiological plant traits, our results suggest that interactions with dispersers could also explain phylogenetic habitat filtering in plants.
24113513|This brief overview decribes some structural and functional (including carbon cycling) aspects of grassland ecosystems, in particular with regard to the effects of global climate change and changes in land use. Afterward the papers briefly introduce the papers devoted to the above mentioned topics, which were selected for this special volume. As we can see, authors studied different kinds of management (including abandonment) and different parameters of climate change (CO2, temperature, rainfall, etc.). They consider predominately vegetation parameters, including the various plant traits, carbon cycling, soil respiration and different ecophysiological traits in simulated climate change. Dealing with different impacts of climate and/or land-use changes on multi-species systems, that grassland communities certainly are, is exceeding merely experimental synthesized-community or single-species approach on one side and classical vegetation studies on the other. The complex responses of natural communities, including those under FACE systems, are not easy to interpret and understand. The importance of non-linear dynamics during climate changes is emphasized by Bartha et al. (2008). In these selected papers, grasslands appear to be a very dynamic and plastic ecosystem. Grasslands are highlighted from a new, much more topical point of view. Linking ecophysiology and vegetation science, which is characteristic for our selection of papers, is a promising tool to deal with problems on the ecosystem level in general, not only addressing the global climate change and land-use issues.
24113676|Intensification of land use in the last few decades resulted in an increased rate of fragmentation of natural forest habitats. With decreased patch size but increased total borderline length the influence of the surroundings also increased. The extent of influence is especially crucial where the forest stands are adjacent to agricultural lands. We studied the vegetation (cover) and seed bank (soil samples, seedling emergence) along adjacent stands of an abandoned vineyard and edge and interior of an oak forest community (Quercetum petraeae-cerris) widespread in Central-Europe, using five transects (16 m 2 plots along each transect). We asked the following questions: (i) How do vegetation and seed bank composition differ between the vineyard and forest interior and (ii) which weeds are able to penetrate into the forest herbaceous understorey vegetation and seed banks from the vineyard? In total, 15 phanaerophytes and 147 herbs were detected. Negatively associated with canopy shading, herb cover proved the lowest in the forest inferior. Few weeds and other ruderals recorded in vineyard penetrated into the forest interior. Mean seed density decreased one order of magnitude from the vineyard to the forest interior (from 20,831 to 2,159 seed/m 2 ). The seed banks of the abandoned vineyard and edge and forest interior were dominated by ruderals, but decreasing proportion of weeds was detected from the vineyard to the forest interior. Characteristic forest herbs possessed at most sparse seed banks. Our results suggest that high canopy cover mitigates the negative impact of surrounding weedy vegetation on the forest herb layer. Therefore, the effect of surroundings is detectable mostly in the seed banks. We can assume that the formation of an increased ruderal herb cover can be foreseen if canopy opens, because the local propagule sources of forest species are missing from vegetation and soil seed banks.
24113548|In this paper, we present regional differences in pond area by focusing on species - pond area relationships between two groups of vertebrates differing in life cycles and ecological requirements: amphibians and birds. The study was conducted in two regions of Romania: the Trnava Basin and the Fize Valley. Ponds from Trnava were more vegetated with emergent aquatic plants (Phragmites australis and Typha sp.). The amphibian species richness in ponds was higher in Trnava than in Fize and, conversely, Fize contained a higher number of bird species. The diversity of the amphibian species is not related to pond area, however, there was a positive relationship in both regions between amphibian species richness and the percentage of emergent vegetation cover. Bird's species richness, on the other hand, was positively related to both pond area and vegetation cover in Trnava whereas only to vegetation cover in Fize. The z values of the speciesarea relationship for amphibians were low in both regions and slightly negative in Trnava. In case of birds, the z value was larger in Trnava than in Fize, suggesting that the number of species increased more with pond area in Trnava than in Fize.
24113674|The spatial distribution of bivalves in relation to environmental conditions was studied along a second- and third order stream  medium-sized river (River Ipoly)  large river (River Danube) continuum in the Hungarian Danube River system. Quantitative samples were collected four times in 2007 and a total of 1662 specimens, belonging to 22 bivalve species were identified. Among these species, two are endangered (Pseudanodonta complanata, Unio crassus) and five are invasive (Dreissena polymorpha, D. rostriformis bugensis, Corbicula fluminea, C. fluminalis, Anodonta woodiana) in Hungary. The higher density presented by Pisidium subtruncatum, P. supinum, P. henslowanum and C. fluminea suggests that these species may have a key role in this ecosystem. Three different faunal groups were distinguished but no significant temporal change was detected. The lowest density and diversity with two species (P. casertanum and P. personatum) occurred in streams. The highest density and diversity was found in the River Ipoly, in the side arms of the Danube and in the main arm of the Danube with sand and silt substrate, being dominated by P. subtruncatum and P. henslowanum. Moderate density and species richness were observed in the main arm of the Danube with pebble and stone substrate, being dominated by C. fluminea and S. rivicola. Ten environmental variables were found to have significant influence on the distribution of bivalves, the strongest explanatory factors being substrate types, current velocity and sedimentological characteristics.
90002492|The paper responds to the question:
24113342|We used cellular automata models to investigate the effect of initial pattern geometry on competition. We measured the average proportion of sites with foreign neighbours to track interspecific segregation during pattern development. Our simulation results show that intraspecific aggregation can considerably slow down the extinction of the weaker competitor. A series of experiments was performed to estimate the expected time to extinction for the weaker species. The perimeter-to-area ratio of the initial configuration proved to be an adequate determinant of expected time-to-extinction. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the degree of aggregation is closely related to the local density dependence of the colonization functions.
24113559|The identification of functional traits critical to plant responses to the environment promotes our understanding of assembly of communities which relies on environmental filtering. However, the recent trait-community approaches mostly ignore the influence of plant-plant interactions by mainly focusing on traits related to abiotic filtering processes. The conceptual framework we propose aims to clarify how the functional diversity of communities depends on the filtering effect of competition on relevant traits. We define two types of competition-related traits: competitive effect traits reflect the changes in local resource levels due to plant activity while competitive response traits are related to plant response to these resource depletions. We then suggest that the contribution of both types of competition-related traits to functional diversity depends on the importance of competition, previously defined as the effect of competition on plant fitness relative to that of other environmental factors. Therefore, the divergence of functional diversity is predicted to be maximized at intermediate levels of competition in relation to the coexistence of species with different strategies characterized by highly contrasted values of competition-related traits.
24113592|Recently, a number of measures of functional diversity have been proposed for data on species presences and absences. One of the most fashionable methods uses cluster analysis of species computed from a matrix of functional characters. Functional diversity is then summarized as the sum of branch lengths of the dendrogram (FDD). Like other graph-theoretical measures of functional diversity, FDD is an increasing function of species richness. This makes FDD inadequate for comparative studies if we want to quantify a component of functional diversity that is not directly related to differences in species counts. The aim of this paper is thus to develop a graph-theoretical measure of functional diversity that does not depend of species richness. The edges of the minimum spanning tree, calculated from the pair-wise inter-species dissimilarity matrix based on functional traits, are ranked and then a power law relationship is established with the cumulative distances. We empirically demonstrate that the exponent of this relationship is independent of species richness and is therefore a suitable measure of functional diversity.
90002408|Structure and diversity trends (-diversity and species richness) across the
90002415|Habitat variability is largely an external mechanism influencing community variability by affecting abundances and precipitating other community changes but the nature of this influence is poorly understood. The absence of systematic quantitative studies appears to be a major reason for this deficiency. To address the problem, we have evaluated community and population variability in invertebrate communities collected from 49 coastal Jamaican rock pools with contrasting levels of habitat variability.
90002549|Because decomposition is an important ecosystem process and species control of it is an issue in the tropics, we examined how much plant species controlled decomposition compared to environmental conditions on a landslide in Puerto Rico. We chose a landslide because of its extreme special variation in environmental conditions, and found that the landslide center microsite had the greatest variation in temperature and precipitation. Litterbags were filled with single-species leaves of three different plant species and placed in center, border and forest landslide microsites. Bags were collected after 1, 2, 4, 8 and 16 weeks and analyzed for organic matter and various other chemicals. All chemicals showed strong differences among plant species and very little significant environmental variation and. with one exception, organic matter loss followed the same exponential decay pattern for all species and microsites. Interestingly, nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) immobilization was seen for all three litter types, and calcium immobilization was seen for two of the three. However, immobilization of N and P were most pronounced for the early successional species. Finally, the dominance of species effects over environmental effects suggests that leaf litter chemistry strongly influences decomposition in landslides. While the soil decomposer biota act similarly along landslide environmental ranges, they are more responsive to substrate quality.
24113541|Spatial patterns of tropical tree populations may contribute to the identification of underlying ecological mechanisms such as dispersal, competition and pest and pathogen pressure. Classical structure functions for quantifying spatial patterns have limitations, for example, although Ripley's K function is useful for identifying differences in spatial patterns through space, this makes it difficult to identify differences in spatial patterns through time. To complement Ripley's K function, we use the Thomas process, a point pattern model, to quantify temporal changes in spatial patterns for five tropical tree species known to have density-dependent mortality from species-specific pests and/or pathogens on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. We fit the data of each species to the model to estimate the cluster size () and density of cluster centres (). We compared spatial patterns based on the pair correlation function of the Thomas process determined from  and . We found reduced clustering over the past 20 years for Ocotea whitei (Lauraceae) and Quararibea asterolepis (Bombacaceae), the two species with the best-documented cases of pathogen and pest outbreaks on BCI, suggesting support for the Janzen-Connell Hypothesis; however, we reject the hypothesis because neither species showed spatial regularity throughout the census period. We found that the Thomas process point pattern model used in concordance with Ripley's K function and other classical structure functions in ecology can be a simplified and powerful method for testing hypotheses regarding changing spatial patterns of populations through time.
24113651|The importance of space as an ecological factor is an emerging paradigm in community ecology, particularly as a driving force of biodiversity patterns. We analysed -diversity linked to spatial structure in four communities (tropical dry forest, savanna, xerophytic vegetation, subdeciduous forest) that occur in a tropical complex landscape of southern Mexico. The landscape was described through an object-oriented classification of a Quickbird satellite image. The classification revealed a highly heterogeneous spatial arrangement of the four communities. Global (landscape-level) -diversity was 0.12 (mean Srensen index), a value smaller than those observed for the individual communities (0.20  0.41 ). By using multivariate classic and partial Mantel tests, and Mantel correlograms based on two distance classes, we analysed -diversity spatial variation related to landscape configuration. The Mantel statistic values for the four communities combined were negative and very similar both for the classic Mantel (r M = -0.23) and the partial Mantel test (r M = -0.19). Correlograms proved significant spatial autocorrelation across most of the analysed distance classes, except in the case of riparian subdeciduous forest. Tropical diy forest and savanna occupy large, highly connected areas in the landscape. Correlograms for these two communities showed decreasing trends, starting at positive, significant autocorrelation values at short distances. The loss of tloristic autocorrelation beyond a 5000 m distance for the tropical dry forest may reflect spatially autocorrelated dispersal, and thus a dispersal-limited community. Xerophytic vegetation displayed a distinctly different correlogram, with a wavy shape showing an alternation of positive and negative values, in agreement with the insular configuration of this community in the landscape. We suggest that the routinely incorporation of a spatial approach in community ecology research will help in furthering our understanding of the elusive issues of species turnover across space.
24113545|Old-fields (44, aged 1-15 years, from Czech Republic and Hungary) were sorted according to their soil moisture and nitrogen content into wet, mesic or dry, and nutrient poor, moderate or nutrient rich categories, resulting in 8 combinations (dry and nutrient rich fields were not present). The vegetation of old fields was sampled using phytosociological relevs. The changes in species cover data and importance of species trait categories were analysed in relation to three environmental factors, i.e., time since abandonment, soil moisture and total soil nitrogen using ordination, generalized linear models (GLM) and regression tree methods. Successional seres in the first 15 years after field abandonment were divergent. Species diversity significantly decreased with increasing site moisture and was highest in sites with moderate nitrogen content; while the relationship with time was not significant. Raunkiaer life forms and life strategies (sensu Grime) were generally the most predictive species traits considering species occurrence during the course of succession, the type of dispersal considering the different moisture status, and the ability to lateral spread considering the nutrient status of the old-fields. Most trends appeared in both parametric GLM and non-parametric regression tree analyses, several only in GLM. We consider regression trees to be a more convenient tool than GLM in cases such as ours with a rather small number of samples and robust character of data. Another advantage is that a hierarchy of species traits is taken into account. Thus, the occurrence of a species along an environmental gradient can be predicted if the species possesses a certain combination of traits.
24113406|In recent decades, nitrogenous compounds, arising from various anthropogenic sources, have become significant components of precipitation and have been shown to have some profound effects on both species richness and dominance of some plant communities. To examine how nitrogen addition can affect the species composition of Central Great Plains prairie plant communities, we applied N fertilizer at five levels for each of five consecutive years at two sites in south-central Kansas with similar rainfall and temperature regimes. One site was a tallgrass prairie and the other was a sand prairie community. The treatments consisted of N additions at the rate of 0, 5, 10, 20, and 40 g N/m2 in the form of solid urea. Within permanent plots, we monitored annually species richness and evenness, and percentage cover by cool-season graminoids, N-fixing species, and annual/biennial species. All these measures varied considerably among years at both sites, but N treatment effects were evident at the sand prairie site only. At the sand prairie, in general species richness and percentage cover by legumes declined with N addition. Moreover, species were excluded non-randomly from N addition plots, with several species apparently particularly intolerant of N addition. The results reinforce a relationship, observed in Europe and the northern Great Plains, between N addition and plant biodiversity decline in grassland communities, and may point to a serious conservation concern for rare species under a chronic regime of N-enhanced precipitation.
24113679|The population density of three lacertid lizards (Podarcis sicula, Podarcis muralis, Lacerta viridis) was studied along several transects crossing agro-forest habitats in Mediterranean central Italy. Overall, seven transects, in three different wooded patches, were walked for lizards. Distance sampling (with uniform model design) was applied to the dataset in order to calculate population size, dispersion, and coefficient of variation at each site. In order to detect which factors may influence lizard density, a Generalized Linear Model (GLZ; multinomial distribution and cumulative log link function) was built, with environmental variables and density of predators' variables being included in the model as covariates (scale predictor). Density of the three lizard species differed significantly among study sites, evidencing species-specific responses to local patch conditions. None of the environmental variables taken separately in the GLZ model influenced significantly the lizard densities, whereas lizards densities showed species-specific response to the considered environmental variables. The largest species (L. viridis) showed the highest density in the fragment with the most irregular shape and largest wood size, whereas the two smaller Podarcis species presented their highest population density in the site with the smallest wood patch and with a very low snake density. Density of P. sicula was negatively correlated with both the woodland area and Colubridae density, and was positively correlated with woodland shape (i.e. with circularity).
24113367|Diversity of forest trees ranges from monospecific stands to the astonishing richness of tierra firma tropical forests. Such patterns are observed along gradients of latitude, altitude, soil fertility and rainfall. So far, the proposed coexisting mechanisms do not provide a comprehensive and unequivocal explanation of these patterns at the community level. We propose a new theory linking species diversity with organic matter cycle and negative plant-soil feedback induced by litter autotoxicity. This approach focuses on resource-waste rather than resource-only dynamics. High diversity does occur where litter decomposition is rapid and ecosystem nutrient cycles are closed. On the other hand, single species dominance is found where litter decomposition is slow and/or autotoxicity is removed from the nutrient cycle pathway. Unlike previous theoretical views, the one we present proves potentially capable of explaining differences in species diversity both along environmental gradients and within the tropics.
24113495|As conservation of sensitive habitats is a high priority issue in European environmental policy, there is considerable interest in mapping and monitoring specific habitats of high conservation value. In this study, we discuss the potential of the Swiss mire monitoring program to monitor small area habitats in sufficient detail. The monitoring scheme combines nationwide probability sampling and predictive habitat mapping based on a field data sample. Thus, it is designed to identify spatiotemporal changes at the stand level and to derive hard statistics for the sub-national level. For feasibility reasons, the thematic focus is on semi-quantitative mean indicator values derived from vegetation records. These measures provide robust estimates of essential floristic site conditions. Regression models based on CIR aerial photographs are applied to continuously map respective measures across the sample mires. The present study explores the required investment of data for model-based mapping. Exemplary mapping results are presented and validated within a reference mire. Repeated tests show that about one hundred field records are needed to guarantee optimal prediction accuracy and reliable error estimates for all target variables. The corresponding 95% error quantiles in a test data set are below 0.7. To evaluate the benefit of high resolution orthophotos (30 cm resolution), the model prediction is compared with results obtained from coarsened images. Although the original CIR images produce the best model performance, the models based on resolutions comparable to modern satellite images still show considerable potential to assess larger areas where the use of digital aerial photographs is limited. The resulting spatially-explicit in-depth information can resolve the common thematic limitations of stand-alone remote sensing applications in conservation monitoring. As the method is applicable consistently across a range of habitat types, we argue that it has the potential to become a standard method for operational monitoring of priority habitats in European nature conservation.
90002595|A recent floristic and environmental survey was undertaken on the roadside verges along the main highway between El Arish and Rafah (31 10N, 33 48E and 31 17N, 34 15E) that extend for about 45 km on the northeastern Mediterranean coast of Sinai (Egypt). 63 stands were studied at 700-m intervals to represent the variation of vegetation, and to compile the floristic composition of the study area. Four main landform zones were distinguished (from the seashore inwards) and run parallel to the roadway: (A) coastal plain, (B) saline depressions, (C) sand plains and (D) sand dunes. There is a gradual increase in the total number of recorded species in the recognized landform units. Application of TWINSPAN analysis yielded 18 vegetation groups (VG) that comprised 7 main vegetation types (VT). These vegetation types were (I)
90002489|A set of coupled logistic growth equations is used to simulate the temporal replacement of vegetation (species or groups). Simulation results approximately reproduce two time series of 415 to 585 years obtained from field investigations in the Swiss National Park (SNP). Although the shape and the fit of the simulated curves are convincing, the assumption that all species must be present at the beginning of the simulation and also the absence of movement in space are not realistic. To overcome this, the model is extended to include space and is used for simulating the succession in an abandoned pasture of the SNP. As long as only vegetation change in all individual quadrats is simulated separately, vegetation boundaries remain unchanged over the simulated period of 400 years. When species are allowed to move between quadrats, the spatial pattern changes over the simulated time, and field data can be taken as boundary conditions to realistically simulate change. It is concluded that spatial dynamics must be taken into account to model long-term succession.
24113404|A most widespread technique in vegetation boundary detection is the Moving Split Window analysis. It is effective in single edge cases provided that the attributes are highly correlated. In dry grasslands with mosaic structure, boundary zones are frequent, they are rather close to one another, causing some uncertainty in edge detection. Artificial "community patterns" were used to reveal the response of dissimilarity/distance functions to the number and distance of edges and to window sizes. Dissimilarity functions are sensitive to the compositional difference of the adjacent patches, and the dissimilarity increases with window size. The usual significance test highly depends on the patch size and edge frequency, therefore additional analyses must be applied or other randomization methods should be found that can ignore the effect of patch size.
24113647|When an opportunistic predator is looking for a given type of prey and encounters another one from different species, it tries to utilize this random opportunity. We characterize the optimal levels of this opportunism in the framework of stochastic models for the two prey-one predator case. We consider the spatial dispersal of preys and the optimal diet choice of predator as well. We show that when both preys have no handling time, the total opportunism provides maximal gain of energy for the predator. When handling times differ with prey, we find a conditional optimal behavior: for small density of both prey species the predator prefers the more valuable one and is entirely opportunistic. However, when the density of the more valuable prey is higher than that of the other species, then the predator prefers the first one and intentionally neglects the other. Furthermore, when the density of the less valuable prey is high and that of the other one is small, then predator will look for the less valuable prey and is therefore totally opportunistic. We demonstrate that prey preference is remunerative whenever the advantage of a proper prey preference is larger than the average cost of missed prey preference. We also propose a dynamics which explicitly contains two sides of shared predation: apparent mutualism and apparent competition, and we give conditions when the rare prey goes extinct.
90004017|Landscape complexity in the boreal forest is a function of physiographic complexity (spatial processes) and post-fire successional (temporal) processes operating across scales. In this study we examine the role ofsuccession and topographic complexity in determining the landscape complexity of Riding Mountain National Park, Manitoba, Canada. Landscape complexity is assessed by using multifractal analysis to quantify landscape patterns from Landsat TM imagery. To determine whether complexity changes with age, "young" sites (post-fire stand ages = 11 and 30 years) were matched with adjacent "old" sites (post-fire stand ages > 95 years). The influence of physiography on landscape complexity is examined by comparing sites having "simple" and "complex" physiographies (as determined by fractal surface analysis). The scaling properties of landscape complexity are determined by calculating the multifractal spectrum (
24113566|There is increasing evidence that regime shifts occur at several scales in ecosystems (from the spatiotemporal alternation of two species to large-scale, ecosystem-level rearrangements). Yet, the theoretical background for understanding these changes is far from clear. Since fishing down in marine ecosystems is well-documented trend, and its top-down cascading effects in food webs have been richly documented, it is a current question whether overfishing, in general, can also influence regime shifts at lower levels. We model simple marine ecosystems by dynamical food webs and investigate the probability of regime shifts emerging among primary consumers. We considered cases where only one of the primary consumers is persistent in the stationary state. By perturbing the death rates in the food web, we studied the circumstances when the previously persistent primary producer is indirectly changed by the previously non-persistent one. Whether and how regime shifts (e.g., change in primary consumers) can occur depends on (1) food web topology (presence of top-predator and alternative producer), (2) the relative strength of perturbation of primary consumers' death rates, and (3) the dynamical parameters of the recovering consumer. We found that overfishing, food web topology and dynamical parameters together determine the probability of regime shifts. Thus, integrative and complex models are needed in multispecies fisheries.
90002477|The Energy-Limitation Hypothesis (ELH) predicts that species richness is an increasing function of abundance. In contrast, the Niche-Limitation Hypothesis (NLH) predicts that high abundances become easier to attain as species richness increases. We tested the NLH and ELH using aquatic invertebrate communities of tropical rock pools. These rock pools span a gradient from very low density pools (
90002563|Wavelets are relatively new mathematical tools that have proven to be quite useful for analyzing time series and spatial data. We provide a basic introduction to wavelet analysis which concentrates on their interpretation in the context of analyzing time series. We illustrate the use of wavelet analysis on time series related to vegetation coverage in the Arctic region.
24113397|The spatial distribution of living trees of different size-classes was examined on two sites with different fire histories in a mature Pinus sylvestris L. dominated forest in eastern Finland. The study area was a 4-ha square plot, which was divided into two parts based on fire history analysis. In one part, the last fire event was a stand-replacing fire in the early 19th century, after which the whole stand regenerated, while the other part of the study plot was subsequently burnt by a surface fire in 1906. For the analyses, the trees were divided into five height-classes, reflecting competitive hierarchy. Spatial patterns of different tree height-classes were analysed using formulae for spatial autocorrelation with categorical data. In both areas, saplings showed an aggregated and overstorey trees a random spatial pattern at all scales studied. The other tree height-classes showed aggregated or random spatial patterns depending on the area and distance class. Generally, similar tree height-classes tended to be randomly or positively associated (attraction), except for the co-dominant and dominant, and overstorey trees, which were negatively associated (repulsion). The results suggest that the three dimensional spatial organization of the tree population was likely driven by two main interacting processes: (1) Low severity disturbances such as surface fires and treefalls, which create favourable regeneration patches, leading to positive association in smaller tree height-classes and (2) strong neighbourhood competition among the largest trees and the competitive effect of these large trees on the small understorey trees, leading to negative association among these components of the tree population. The results also indicate that canopy replacement by trees currently in the understorey is unlikely to occur without a sufficient opening in the forest.
24113521|Soil fluxes of methane and nitrous oxide were determined for grasslands on sandy, loess and clay soils in Hungary. As the direction of methane flux (emission or uptake) depends on the soil characteristics bi-directional fluxes were observed. For sandy and loess grasslands the sink and source processes are practically balanced showing a negligible low mean methane flux for 2006-2007 (0.04-0.05 kg CH4 ha-1 yr-1). In this period the clay grassland functioned as a weak sink for methane (0.34 kg CH4 ha-1 yr-1). Average soil nitrous oxide emission fluxes for the period of 2002-2006 was 0.5 kg N ha-1 yr-1 for sandy and loess while 0.2 kg N ha-1 yr-1 for clay grassland, respectively, with substantial inter-annual variations. Taking into account the total atmospheric N-input 0 to 8 per cent of deposited nitrogen is emitted from the soils in the form of N2O as the intermediate product of soil denitrification processes.
24113498|Species rarefaction curves have long been used for estimating the expected number of species as a function of sampling effort and they represent a powerful tool for quantifying the diversity of an area from local (-diversity) to regional scale (- and -diversity). Nonetheless, sampling species based on standard plant inventories represents a cost expensive approach. In this view, remotely sensed information may be straightforwardly used for predicting species rich sites. In this paper, we present spectral rarefaction, i.e., the rarefaction of reflectance values derived from satellite imagery, as an effective manner for predicting bio-diverse sites. We tested this approach in ten biogeographical subregions in Switzerland. Plant species data were derived from the Swiss 'Biodiversity Monitoring' programme (BDM), which represents species richness of Switzerland at the landscape scale by a systematic sample of 520 quadrats of 1 km  1 km. Seven Landsat ETM+ images covering the whole study area were acquired. Species and spectral rarefaction were built and results were compared by Pearson correlation coefficient considering several sampling efforts (as measured by the number of sampled quadrats). Local -diversity showed a similar pattern considering the ten biogeographical subregions while - and -diversity showed higher values for regions in the Alpine arc and lower values for plateau regions and Jura mountains on the strength of the higher ecological (and spectral) variability of the former areas. Meanwhile, positive correlations between species and spectral richness values were significant only after a certain amount of area was accumulated, thus indicating a scale dependence of the fit of satellite and species data. With this paper, we introduce spectral rarefaction as an effective tool in quantifying diversity at a range of spatial scales. Obviously, the achieved results should be viewed as an aid to plan field survey rather than to replace it. We propose to use worldwide available remotely sensed information as a driver for field sampling design strategies.
90002417|Local stability analysis of dynamical models of interacting populations predicted that food web connectance (
90004008|Hydrology, which filters propagule bank expression, differs among Carolina bay wetlands. We examined the relationships among hydrology, recruitment from the propagule bank, and bay vegetation over one season in six herbaceous bays that differ in hydroperiod. Sediment cores were taken at distances from each bay center representing 10%, 25%, 50%, and 75% full water level and subjected to flooded, midsummer drawdown, or moist soil conditions in an outdoor mesocosm experiment. Vegetation from the cores was compared among hydrology treatments and with bay vegetation. In bay vegetation, species richness and dissimilarity, calculated among replicate plots at each distance, increased from flooded bay centers toward the margins, where water level fluctuated. Among bays, vegetation richness increased from more pond-like bays to the flashiest bay. Within bays, vegetation graded from obligate wetland species to a mixture of obligate and facultative species from center to margin. The flooding treatment promoted convergence on obligate wetland floating-leaved and emergent species, low species richness, and high community similarity of vegetation from the sediment cores. Our research supports the hypothesis that hydrology filters recruitment and species distribution in Carolina bays. The extent of inundated, fluctuating water, and exposed sediment areas can determine seasonal vegetation organization in such wetlands. Vegetation in wetlands with steep basins and stable hydrology ismore likely zoned; dominant species show discontinuous distributions along the flooding gradient. In contrast, fluctuating hydrology in shallow basins results in unzoned vegetation, with more continuous species distributions from wetland center toward the margins.
90002589|Knowledge of the weed seedbank composition, dynamics and relationships with the emergent weed community, is necessary to improve weed management practices. Field research was made over three years in a maize (
24113402|After clearcutting xerothermic oakwoods once natural in the forest-steppe loess regions of Hungary, the perennial understorey grass Brachypodium pinnatum has been persisting for decades by establishing microhabitats from shade to full sun. In this paper, we explore variation in leaf anatomy for plants growing in different microhabitat light regimes (full shade under oak canopy, half shade near shrubs, and in unshaded grassland) in situ, and for plants reciprocally transplanted between these microhabitats. Leaf lamina thickness and mesophyll thickness were about 1.5 times greater in die grassland in situ than in oak subcanopy due to an additional layer of mesophyll cells and to 25-32% taller mesophyll cells. Mesophyll thickness and the proportion of veins plus sclerenchyma were lower for plants transplanted from either full or half shade to full sun than in situ plants in the grassland. Parenchymatous bundle sheath tended to be thicker in the grassland than in the two other microhabitats. Mean intervenial distance remained invariable among microsites. These adjustments in leaf anatomy may be a considerable part, but presumably not the dominant component of the medium-term (one year) light acclimation of B. pinnatum and the species' success in microsites with contrasting light climate appearing side-by-side during secondary vegetation succession.
90002359|This study investigated microhabitat relationships of terrestrial bryophytes in a subalpine forest of coastal British Columbia. Substratum affinities were characterized for dominant bryophytes. Logistic regression analysis was used to gain insight into the ecological determinants of fine scale (0.1m
24113627|Changes in taxa composition among different communities in a landscape or along an environmental gradient are defined as -diversity. From a biogeographic point of view, it is interesting to analyse patterns of -turnover across latitudinal bands, and to understand whether -diversity is significantly associated with endemism at lower latitudes, as predicted by theory. We inspected these issues by using squirrels (Rodentia, Sciuridae) as a study case. Distribution data for each genus were obtained from literature and mapped. The two hemispheres were subdivided into 23 latitudinal bands of equal area, and we calculated a -turnover index between latitudinal bands with two formulae: Wilson and Shmida's (1984) and Lennon et al.'s (2001) indices. We found that the peak of number of Sciuridae genera significantly corresponded to the peak in -turnover scores at the same latitudes (25-31N) with Wilson and Shmida's (1984), but not with Lennon et al.'s (2001) index. We also found that the turnover between ground and tree squirrels corresponded to the grassland vegetation latitudinal bands (around 40 N), and the beginning of the latitudinal bands characterized by tropical and subtropical forests is accomplished with the occurrence of tree and flying squirrels.
24113713|The density and spatial pattern of ant nests were examined in two sub-Mediterranean habitats of the Balaton Uplands in Hungary. The aim of this study was to examine whether regular spatial arrangement, the most common dispersion pattern among ants that mostly indicates competition, is a characteristic feature of these communities. In both habitats, the nests of Aphaenogaster subterranea and Lasius emarginatus had the highest density, followed by the nests of Prenolepis nitens and Temnothorax crassispinus, which were also frequent. The intraspecific spacing pattern of nests was random or aggregated in most cases, and when the species identity of the nearest neighbour was disregarded, the nests of all the individual species showed significant aggregation. The nearest interspecific inter-nest distances proved to be significantly shorter than the nearest intraspecific inter-nest distances both in the case of the entire community and the majority of individual species, except for the polydomous L. emarginatus. On the basis of the results it seems that neither intra-, nor interspecific competition may be an important process in the formation of nest spacing patterns in these habitats.
24113639|There are many different metrics for expressing the dissimilarity between two samples or plots. The large majority of these dissimilarity measures attempt to summarize different aspects of plot-to-plot dissimilarity based either on species presences and absences within plots or on species abundances. Here, we propose a new parametric measure of plot-to-plot functional dissimilarity that incorporates information about the degree of functional dissimilarity between species. This measure is obtained from the combination of Hurlbert's 'expected species diversity' with one dissimilarity coefficient of the 'Bray-Curtis family' and calculates the expected functional dissimilarity between the species in plot A and their functional nearest neighbors in plot B if m individuals are chosen randomly with replacement from each of the two plots. Due to its parametric nature, the proposed measure has a different sensitivity to the presence of rare and abundant species within plots as a function of the selected parameter value.
24113503|Biodiversity monitoring is important to identify conservation needs and test the efficacy of management actions. Variants of "abundance" (N) are among the most widely monitored quantities, e.g., (true) abundance, number of occupied sites (distribution, occupancy) or species richness. We propose a sampling-based view of monitoring that clearly acknowledges two sampling processes involved when monitoring N. First, measurements from the surveyed sample area are generalized to a larger area, hence the importance of a probability sample. Second, even within sampled areas only a sample of units (individuals, occupied sites, species) is counted owing to imperfect detectability p. If p < 1, counts are random variables and their expectation E(n) is related to N via the relationship E(n) = N*p. Whenever p < 1, counts vary even under identical conditions and underestimate N, and patterns in counts confound patterns in N with those in p. In addition, part of the population N may be unavailable for detection, e.g., temporarily outside the sampled quadrat, underground or for another reason not exposed to sampling; hence a more general way of describing a count is E(n) = N*a*p, where a is availability probability and p detection, given availability. We give two examples of monitoring schemes that highlight the importance of explicitly accounting for availability and detectability. In the Swiss reptile Red List update, the widespread and abundant slow worm (Anguis fragilis) was recorded in only 22.1% of all sampled quadrats. Only an analysis that accounted for both availability and detectability gave realistic estimates of the species' distribution. Among 128 bird species monitored in the Swiss breeding bird survey, detection in occupied 1 km2 quadrats averaged only 64% and varied tremendously by species (3-99 %); hence observed distributions greatly underestimated range sizes and should not be compared among species. We believe that monitoring design and analyses should properly account for these two sampling processes to enable valid inferences about biodiversity. We argue for a more rigorous approach to both monitoring design and analysis to obtain the best possible information about the state of nature. An explicit recognition of, and proper accounting for, the two sampling processes involved in most monitoring programs will go a long way towards this goal.
24113716|Insect parasitoids have been widely studied, particularly due to their ecological implications through the study of the special relationships observed among this kind of species, as well as to their expression in mathematical models. However, there are still scarce studies on parasitoid relationships and their expression in more realistic mathematical models. The present work is aimed at deepening into competition relationships among parasitoids. Bearing this purpose in mind, the system shaped by two parasitoids was chosen: Trichogramma brassicae (idiobiont egg parasitoid) and Chelonus oculator (koinobiont egg-larval parasitoid). Both species compete against each other for the same host species (Lepidoptera). The results obtained in the laboratory point out that T. brassicae may be considered a better competitor than Ch. oculator. This is the result of the extrinsic competition due to the substances injected by the female during parasitization. However, our results show this classification into better and worse competitors inaccurate. Thus, these interspecific competition influences are detrimental to both parasitoid species. This is the first time that the effect of this competition is mentioned regarding parasitoid functional response. Our results and their ecological implications are reported and discussed.
24113596|The parasitization behaviour of Chelonus oculator (F.), egg-larval parasitoid of noctuid lepidopteran species, has been studied under laboratory conditions, using Ephestia kuehniella Zeller as host, at four different temperature levels (10, 20, 30 and 401 C) and five densities of host eggs (50, 100, 150, 200 and 250). A significant effect of temperature and parasitism density was observed. At 10 C, there was no parasitism, whilst at 40 C it was very low; presenting adequate values at the two other temperatures (20 and 30 C). With regard to these facts, the functional responses of this parasitoid species were adjusted and we noted that they display Holling type III. Estimating the handling times from the respective mathematical expressions, we obtained 10.944 and 15.250 min, at 20 and 30C, respectively. These values are considerably higher than the respective times obtained by direct observation, 0.597 and 0.560 min for these temperatures (this difference is due to the fact that in the first case, unlike the second one, the time used for the search of the host is also included). The results obtained from the parasitization behaviour of Ch. oculator are discussed, also considering it as a candidate biological control agent against Spdoptera exigua (Hbner), beet armyworm, with a view to its possible use in greenhouse crops in Spain.
24113562|Rarefaction is a widely applied technique for comparing the species richness of samples that differ in area, volume or sampling effort. Despite widespread adoption of sample-based rarefaction curves, serious concerns persist. In this paper, we address the issue of the spatial arrangement of sampling units when computing sample-based rarefaction curves. If the spatial arrangement is neglected when building rarefaction curves, a direct comparison of species richness estimates obtained for areas that differ in their spatial extent is not possible, even if they were sampled with a similar intensity. We demonstrate a major effect of the spatial extent of the samples on species richness estimates through the use of data from a temperate forest. We show that the use of Spatially Constrained Rarefaction (SCR) results in species richness estimates that are directly comparable for areas that differ in spatial extent. As expected, standard rarefaction curves tend to overestimate species richness because they ignore the spatial autocorrelation of species composition among sampling units. This spatial autocorrelation is captured by the SCR, thus providing a useful technique for characterizing the spatial structure of biodiversity patterns. Further work is necessary to determine how species richness estimates and the shape of the SCR are affected by the method of spatial constraint and sampling unit density and distribution.
90002478|This paper discusses the measurement of taxonomic diversity of a given community or set of species. First, given D, the matrix of pairwise distances between species, I propose to summarize taxonomic diversity through Rnyis information-theoretical parametric formalism on D. In this way, a family of taxonomic diversity indices is obtained which shows different sensitivity to the presence of species with different levels of taxonomic distinctness. The adequacy of information-theoretical indices for quantifying taxonomic diversity is discussed.
24113505|Grasslands play an important role in terms of biodiversity, landscape and agriculture. For 25 years, the Bavarian agri-environment scheme (AES) "Agricultural landscape program" (KULAP) has been funding management practices which are intended to conserve cultural landscapes and enhance biodiversity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the Bavarian AES schemes in terms of plant diversity. As AES is divided into many different, clearly divergent schemes, each of these schemes was evaluated separately. The evaluation focussed not only on species richness but also on other diversity parameters such as the presence of rare and common species, the percentage of species group members and the evenness as well as agronomic values such as forage value, percentage of agronomically desirable species or percentage of weeds. In order to achieve this goal, we selected about 950 pairs of grassland plots with and without AES. Differences in species richness between AES and control plots were most significant in the site related AES schemes and organic farming, whereas plots with other farm related AES schemes hardly differed from their controls. Obviously, schemes which really demand management changes on the part of the farmer have a definite effect on plant species diversity in grasslands compared to those which closely resemble conventional management.
24113567|There is a recent proposal to apply convex hulls to the measurement of habitat filtering, trophic diversity and functional richness. Although this approach has successful applications, some conceptual difficulties with the interpretation of results should not be overlooked. The basic assumption that trait convergence and the associated deflation of the convex hull is a result of environmental (habitat) filtering does not always hold, because 1 ) some traits may converge as a result of competition as well, and 2) environmental factors, such as disturbance, may lead to divergence, rather than convergence for certain characters. There is neither evidence nor theoretical proof that increasing correlations between traits and reduction in trait combinations are always caused by habitat filtering, especially when individual trait ranges are unchanged. Diversity measurements in terms of convex hull volumes may be misleading because zero or near zero values may result no matter how wide the individual trait ranges are. For these reasons, applications of convex hulls cannot be viewed uncritically, and considerable care must be taken even if the method is used in combination with other techniques.
24113516|We imposed two different global changes, climate warming and declining species richness, to synthesized grassland ecosystems, in order to determine both their single-factor effect as well as their possible interactions on plant phenology. Twelve climate-controlled chambers were therefore exposed to two temperature treatments (0 C and 3 C above ambient air temperature) and three species richness treatments (1, 3 and 9 species). Measurements consisted of visual phenological observations of the appearance of flower buds until flowering and of autumn senescence stages, as well as of readings of the leaf chlorophyll content. In spring, chlorophyll concentrations increased under warming (9.7%) and decreasing species richness (39.4%). Warming also induced an earlier spring start (4 days) and enhanced flower production, whereas decreasing species richness likewise enhanced flower production but delayed the start of spring (16 days). In autumn, leaf senescence started simultaneously at the two temperature treatments and three species richness levels, but the end of the senescence was delayed in the heated chambers, as well as in the monocultures. Although warming and species richness interacted with species identity, no warmingspecies richness interactions were found. In conclusion, although warming and species richness influenced the duration of the growing season, none of these effects were reflected in the above-ground biomass of the individual plants. Under the projected climatic changes, warming will therefore not necessarily enhance the productivity of the individual plants.
24113655|Farmland ponds represent habitats with a high conservation value that make a significant contribution to regional biodiversity. Understanding the influence of plant species composition and environmental variables in driving variations in animal species composition in ponds is an important issue in the fields of ecological research and conservation biology. Using variance partitioning techniques to quantify independent effects, we examined how plant species composition, local-landscape configuration and physicochemical variables interact in influencing aquatic insect and amphibian community composition. The ponds investigated in this study were located in the Site of Community Importance - Special Protected Area (Natura 2000 Network) "Monte Labbro - Alta Valle delFAlbegna" (Tuscany, central Italy). Our results showed that: (i) plant community composition (such as Carex hirta, Glicerya fluitans, Potamogeton natans, Typha latifolia) is a good predictor for amphibian but not for aquatic insect species composition; (ii) aquatic insect species composition was more strongly affected by the landscape context, whereas for amphibians the local characteristics of the ponds were determining; (iii) the physicochemical context is a poor predictor for these animal taxa; (iv) lastly, and notably, the explanatory variables explained a high proportion of the total variation in amphibian and aquatic insect species composition. Our results have important implications with respect to the creation of new ponds, which should preferentially take place close to semi-natural grasslands and other wetlands, in order to maintain greater connectivity, and away from urban areas. Moreover, larger ponds are preferable for the preservation of pond biodiversity. The management and conservation of ponds is necessary to ensure the protection of habitats, the survival of individual species and overall pond biodiversity.
90002472|Bryophyte vegetation on volcanic rock outcrops and dead wood is studied in a near-natural montane beech stand in northern Hungary. Substrate specificity of the species and the existing interspecific relationships are described. The most important species combinations and their diversity are evaluated using information theoretical functions and Monte-Carlo simulations.
24113595|Species diversity loss is expected to alter ecosystem function, but previous work has demonstrated inconsistent relationships between these two factors. Productivity is the most common measure of ecosystem function, but given the difficulty in measuring productivity, standing biomass or change in biomass are frequently used as proxy measures. A review of the recent ecosystem-function literature revealed that 93% of studies measure productivity as biomass, thereby assuming a strong positive relationship between these two variables. We tested this assumption by measuring biomass and productivity in seagrass beds in the Gulf of Mexico. We found that the relationship between standing biomass and productivity could be positive or negative, depending on site. Change in biomass over months inconsistently underestimated short-term productivity. The relationship between biomass and productivity may depend on plant age, successional stage, or site-specific rates of tissue loss to herbivory, senescence, or disturbance. Our results suggest that if biomass continues to be used as a measure of productivity without justification, highly productive communities that typically show little change in biomass, such as healthy climax communities, will not be interpreted as such. The conflicting results of previous studies investigating the relationship between diversity and productivity may be due to differences in the inherently variable relationship between biomass and productivity at different sites and scales.
90002414|In this paper, I re-examine the subtropical rainforest succession previously studied by Williams, Lance, Webb, Tracey and Dale (1969) (WLWTD) using a clustering procedure based on the
24113556|Breeding bird assemblages and species present in two 'archipelagos' of wood fragments, included in fragmented landscape of Central Italy, were studied in springs 2002 and 2003 with line transect method ( 1 : Cornicolan hills study area: 20 fragments; 2: Anzio-Nettuno study area: 13 fragments). An area effect was shown in diversity/dominance analyses carried out by species rank/frequency diagrams obtained for the wood fragment assemblages of two 'archipelagos'. Smaller fragments showed a lower species richness, a higher relative frequencies of first dominant species and a higher value of angular coefficient of assemblage lines. When fragment area decreases, the assemblage tendency lines in diversity/dominance diagrams show a higher slope (i.e., higher angular coefficient). Simpson dominance index was inversely correlated to fragment area: smaller fragments concentrate dominance in less species compared to larger ones. This approach suggests that the reduction in area of wood fragments could be comparable to a stress on breeding bird assemblages induced by anthropogenic habitat conversion and fragmentation, here considered as a disturbance at landscape level.
90002355|Accurate and unbiased radiative energy transfer models are critical to our understanding of ecosystem primary productivity, carbon cycling, and climate change. Much of the current research in this area is based on models parameterized for grasslands and broadleaf forests. However, many temperate montane and boreal forests are dominated by conifers, which present unique challenges to modellers. We propose two fundamentally different strategies by which plant canopies optimize solar radiation interception. Laminar canopies (e.g., grasslands, broadleaf trees) are solar panels that directly intercept incoming radiant energy. By contrast, conifer canopies are conical anechoic (without echo) surfaces that intercept radiant energy by scattering it through the canopy. The properties of anechoic surfaces are well known in acoustical and electrical engineering, but have not been applied in environmental biophysics. We discuss the physical principles of anechoic surfaces, and demonstrate how these principles apply to conifer trees and canopies. A key feature of anechoic interception is low radiance over all wavelengths, which is an emergent property of the system. Using empirical data from boreal forest stands in Riding Mountain National Park (Manitoba, Canada), we demonstrate that conifer canopies have very low near-infrared radiance compared to laminar broadleaf canopies. Vegetation index values for conifers are thereby reduced, resulting in underestimates of primary productivity and other biophysical parameters. We also discuss the adaptive significance of boreal conifer geometry, and consider factors driving selection of laminar versus anechoic canopy architectures.
24113719|In order to better understand the factors governing community assembly on riverine islands, we conducted a greenhouse experiment that examined the effects of species interactions in combination with flooding that mimicked hydrologic gradients found on Mississippi River islands. Specifically, we examined the effects of inter and intra-specific competition and three disturbance treatments (drained, drought, and flood) on the growth performance of three island-ubiquitous herbaceous plant species (Amaranthus palmeri, Cyperus strigosus, and Xanthium strumarium). We predicted a decrease in interspecific competitive effects in disturbance treatments. Specifically, we expected A. palmeri to be most affected by flooding treatment based on its facultative upland status suggesting that it should be a poor tolerator of flooded conditions. X. strumarium and C. strigosus both facultative wetland species in their status, should tolerate flooding, but we predict that C. strigosus should have greater stress tolerance due to its perennial life history. Because we find these species coexisting at the same elevation zones on riverine islands, we also predicted stronger intraspecific competition effects. Our results indicate that disturbance indeed affected competitive interactions, but the effects were species-specific. X. strumarium showed stronger competitive effects when grown with conspecifics while C. strigosus experienced greater competition with heterospecifics under drought treatments. Based on its wetland indicator status and life history characteristics, we expected A. palmeri to exhibit a facilitative effect, as it is typically an upland species, but instead it was impacted most by interspecific competition. Our study indicates that factors other than competition, facilitation, and flood tolerance (e.g., priority effects) may be controlling island plant community dynamics, further studies are required.
90002547|This paper examines how we might test the continuum theory against the community unit theory. Adherence to one or other of these models without testing is simply an assignment of an extreme prior probability to the preferred option. The question can be rephrased to ask whether, for a set of observations, a single model is adequate or whether a mixture of models would be preferable. To judge between them involves first defining the nature of the model(s) to be fitted in each case and then comparing the complexity and quality of fit. Occams razor suggests that we should seek the simplest model with adequate fit. with parameters estimated with optimal precision. The simplest comparison of the two theories thus requires only the estimation of the number of clusters for the chosen mode(s) of within-cluster variation. If a single cluster is of adequate quality then the continuum model is appropriate, while if several are needed then the community model is preferable for that particular dataset. To establish universal applicability of either model involves investigation of many datasets.
90002425|Evenness is generally regarded as the constituent of species diversity which is independent of species richness. The group of most popular evenness indices has recently changed, following the influential work of Smith and Wilson (1996). My first point is to argue that this work failed to define coherently what evenness should be and thus advocated the use of indices of different nature. Instead, I propose to use the Lorenz partial order to choose indices that have a behaviour compatible with it. I then suggest a list of such evenness indices and build four series of new evenness indices. Finally, I discuss the interest of the Lorenz partial order and of the various evenness indices that are compatible with it.
24113558|Prevalence (the presence/absence ratio in the training data) is commonly thought to influence the reliability of the predictions of species distribution models. However, little is known about its precise impact. We studied its effects using a virtual species, avoiding the presence of unaccounted-for effects in the modeling process (false absences, non-explanatory predictors, etc.). We sampled the distribution of the virtual species to obtain several data subsets of varying sample size and prevalence, and then modeled these data subsets using logistic regressions. Our results show that model predictions can be highly accurate over a wide range of sample sizes and prevalence scores, provided that the predictors are truly related to the distribution of the species and the training data are reliable. The effect of sample size becomes apparent for datasets of less than 70 data points, and the effect of prevalence is significant only for datasets with extremely unbalanced samples (<0.01 and >0.99). There is also a strong interaction between sample size and prevalence, indicating that the most negative factor is the sample size of each event (absence and/or presence), and not biased prevalence, as previously thought. We suggest that, in the real world, an interaction must exist between the sample size of each event and the quality of the training data. We discuss that biased prevalences can be a desirable property of the data, instead of a problem to be avoided, also pointing out the importance of using the best absence data possible when modeling the distribution of species of narrow geographic range.
90004007|Food webs inform about both direct trophic interactions (predation and food supply) and implicitly involved, indirect ones (e.g. exploitative competition). Traditionally, direct links between species are considered stronger and more important. However, as a body of experimental results suggests, indirect links may well be able to surpass their effects. In this paper, after shortly summarizing an interesting case study, I propose a simple structural approach to estimate the role of indirect vs. direct effects.
90002581|Vegetation in natural desert and agro-ecosystems was investigated in the middle sector of Egypt. The vegetation was classified by the Two Way Indicator Species Analysis technique (TWINSPAN) into nine vegetational groups representing seven habitat types: desert, fallow land, winter crops of old cultivated land, summer crops of old cultivated land,
90002594|This study was carried out to compare composition, density and diversity of species between dryland and irrigated agroecosystems and between agroecosystems and the marginal grassland ecosystem in dry tropics. Main management characteristics of these ecosystems are: (1) Dryland cropping, low fertilizer input, rainfed (no irrigation) and seed sown rice; (2) Irrigated cropping, high fertilizer, water (irrigation) inputs, flooded rice by transplanting; (3) Grassland, post-rainy season herbage removal and light grazing. All ecosystems showed comparable number (12-14) of species in winter, but in the rainy season higher number of species (21) were recorded in the grassland ecosystem. The species composition of the grassland was entirely different from both agroecosystems (similarity <1%). Dryland and irrigated agroecosystems showed only 25% and 38% similarity with each other during winter and rainy cropping seasons, respectively. Occurrence of few grasses (e.g.,
24113640|SOFM (self-organizing feature map) clustering is powerful in analyzing and solving complicated and non-linear problems. This method was used and compared with fuzzy C-means clustering and TWINSPAN, the most common classification methods, in analysis of plant communities in the Guancen Mts., China. The dataset consisted of importance values of 112 species in 53 quadrats of 10 m  20 m. All the three methods classified the 53 quadrats into eight groups, representing eight associations of vegetation. They were all effective in the analysis of ecological data. The consistency of SOFM clustering with fuzzy C-means clustering (FCM) and TWINSPAN classification was 81.1% and 94.3%, respectively. SOFM clustering has some advantages and more potentiality in application to studies of ecology.
24113539|Relev data (n = 216) from two-pairs of study areas located in the boreal forest of central and northern Alberta (Canada), with their centroids separated by 3.7 of latitude, were analyzed to determine if latitude-related species richness, composition, and abundance differences occurred in the understories of Populus tremuloides forest stands. No difference in study area species richness (P = 0.248) occurred, which included 78 to 105 species (average 94). North compared to south areas had reduced relev, forb, and graminoid richness; greater dominance concentration; and less total, vascular understory, herb, forb, and graminoid canopy cover (P <0.001). Nine herbs (Calamagrostis canadensis, Cornus canadensis, Eurybia conspicua, Fragaria virginiana, Galium boreale, Lathyrus ochroleucus, Mertensia paniculata, Pedicularis labradorica, and Symphyotrichum ciliolatum) and two shrubs (Lonicera involucrata and Vaccinium caespitosum) decreased in abundance (total ~25% cover) from the south to north areas (P <0.001), and were associated ecologically with more open-growing forests and nontreed sites. Latitudinal differences were interpreted to be a response to cooler and slightly drier climatic conditions, and to reduced PAR availability caused by lower angles of solar incidence and the resulting more intensive shading by trees in northern areas. These factors in combination were estimated to reduce PAR to understory plants by at least 20%. Eight vegetation-types were recognized; each mostly limited to one study area. However, a P. tremuloides/Rosa type occurred in both south and north areas. The northern variant contained less Rosa acicularis (21%) and more (6%) Leymus innovatus, Linnaea borealis, and Cornus canadensis cover than southern stands.
24113605|The 'mefa' package contains functions to create and manage objects combining basic faunistic (sample/species/count or cross-tabulated) count data and sample/species attribute tables. Segments within the count data and samples with zero count can be indicated and used in subsequent operations. Reports can be generated in plain text or LaTeX format.
90002490|In this essay. I examine the role of induction in developing vegetation models. Falsification is a necessary component of model building but is not itself sufficient. Induction provides a necessary complement and one that dethrones the null hypothesis from its privileged state. After examining the role of description and environment. I examine several possible criteria useful for valorising models so that we may choose the best. These criteria include fit. simplicity, precision and interest. Predictability, which is given overwhelming importance in a falsification approach, is found to be ambiguous. It may be obtained by using multiple models without regard to the processes active in the real system. In addition movement towards a model which does reflect the real processes can result in loss of predictivity. Finally, some comments are made on what we can infer and how this relates to our understanding of living systems.
24113717|To determine the effect of tree canopy composition on understory species abundance, three-hundred 2 m  2-m quadrats from 30 high-latitude boreal forest stands were sampled. In addition, all trees within a 3 m radius of each quadrat center and  1 m tall were also measured for height, basal diameter, and canopy width (n = 3130). Stands were 33178 years old, with canopies of Populus tremuloides (trembling aspen) and Picea spp. (spruce) in varying proportions. Arctostaphylos uva-ursi, Calamagrostis purpurascens, Chamerion angustifolium, Shepherdia canadensis, and Hylocomium splendens were the most frequent understory species among quadrats. Scatterplots P. tremuloides and individual vascular understory species cover values lacked bivariate trends, but the understory species had distinct maxima that ranged from 20 to 90%. A moderately strong correlation (r = 0.52, P <0.001) occurred between P. tremuloides canopy and total vascular understory plant covers, but weak individual species correlations (r = 0.220.35, P <0.001), suggested understory species variation was primarily determined by factors other than the amount of immediately overhead canopy cover. Canonical correlation analysis (R = 0.82, P <0.001) indicated that greater vascular understory plant cover occurred when forest stands consisted of P. tremuloides with large canopies and large basal diameters, and lacked Picea. Maximum cover for vascular understory species declined when Picea cover exceeded 710%. In combination, P. tremuloides stem densities or a metric based on summed canopy areas converted to a diameter value (canopy-area diameter), and the vertical silhouette area of Picea canopies (canopy profile area), as independent linear regression variables, explained 79% of the variance in total vascular understory plant cover. Several Picea basal areaderived metrics were strongly and positively associated with increasing H. splendens cover, but canopy profile area was more informative. Populus tremuloides canopy area and Picea canopy profile area, as indicators of shading, may be important determinants of vascular understory vegetation abundance in stands where solar radiation enters at angles of up to 52 during the summer.
24113366|The impact of decreasing plant diversity on terrestrial ecosystem productivity remains controversial. Recent studies generally suggest that diverse plant communities are more productive than depauperate versions. However, there is less agreement as to whether this is caused by the number of species present, the identities of the species present, the number of functional groups that these species make up, or by which functional groups are represented. This study evaluates whether relationships between plant diversity and productivity in northern mixed grass prairie are dependent on (a) the diversity measure used (species richness vs. functional richness), (b) the productivity measure utilized, or (c) the scale of observation. We collected plant diversity and productivity information over circular plots of 0.5 m diameter during the summer of 1998, then used a spatially nested sampling design to scale each property and their relationships to 2.5 m, 10 m and 50 m sampling resolutions. Observed diversity-productivity relationships were dependent on all of the above factors. Richness-productivity relationships were found to be mostly asymptotic at all observational scales. The presence of particular species, and functional groups, alone or in combination all had significant effects on productivity at the plot (0.5m) level, but not at coarser resolutions. These results were consistent with those of other studies, and suggest that the higher productivities of diverse grassland plots in our grassland site might result from the effects of diversity and the presence of productive species. The lack of species effects at coarser resolutions suggest other mechanisms are responsible for such relationships at these scales.
24113678|In this study we (1) examined the applicability of the widely available CORINE land cover map of Europe in predicting several components of the richness of forest breeding bird community, and (2) analysed how different ecologically meaningful species groups respond to the differences in landscape composition and how these differences are reflected in the relationships between total species richness and richness of these species groups at the 2.5  2.5 km 2 scale. We found that landscape composition had only moderate success in predicting the richness components of the forest bird community. The predictive power of the applied general linear models differed very much: roughly 60% of the observed variance was explained when the dependent variables (species richness and abundance) were calculated using data of all the 21 studied forest bird species or that of common forest birds. However, species richness and abundance of groups of more vulnerable species were predicted with much less success (30% variance explained), suggesting that CORINE is not an adequate tool in predicting the conservation status of these sensitive forest birds. Forest cover explicated 90 to 100% of the explained variance in the models suggesting that forest bird community was much less sensitive to the type of land cover occuring in the surroundings. We showed that richness and abundance of selected species groups had different non-linear relationships with total species richness, suggesting that  if used alone , total species richness is a weak predictor of other richness components of the forest bird community.
24113499|It is increasingly understood that inventorying and monitoring biodiversity requires a multi-taxon approach and that comparing simple indices, such as species richness, should be accompanied by deeper analyses of species community composition and by comparisons of species life-history traits among taxa and habitats. Here, we document that two ecologically rather similar groups of epigeic predators, ground-dwelling spiders (Araneae) and ground beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae), differ in patterns of stone quarry colonization. Such post-industrial barrens as abandoned quarries are increasingly appreciated as potential refuges for species that are becoming rare in modern landscapes. We compared species richness, community composition and species life-history traits of two epigeic invertebrates groups, in quarries and adjoining seminatural biotopes in a submountain region with granulite and limestone bedrock in SW Czech Republic. For both groups, quarries were species-poorer than seminatural sites, herbaceous biotopes were richer than scrubby and rocky biotopes, and no significant effects on species richness were revealed for substrate. Assemblages colonising quarries differed from those outside of quarries. They contained numerous regionally rarer species of rocks and scree in the case of spiders, but generalists of open landscapes prevailed among ground beetles. A survey limited to ground beetles, as well as to species richness analyses, would fail to detect a conservation potential of the quarries. Hence, a multi-taxa approach should be preferred, and species richness analyses should be assembled by insights onto community composition and species life-history traits in monitoring studies.
90004018|Old-growth forests are declining throughout eastern North America, especially toward the northern limit of the deciduous formation where gently undulating topography and milder climate especially encourage human activity. Remnants exist, but do they retain the defining characteristics of the original vegetation? The objective was tomarshal information required to answer this question, and toward this objective we assessed vegetation in a small 1 ha remnant of maple-beech forest with no history of past logging and compared it to well known and larger old-growth areas in the region. We used Curtiss (1959) Point Quarter method to provide full quantitative data for trees, saplings, shrub and herbs. Size class distribution of trees and successional status of the stand were assessed. As a general conclusion, we found that tree species richness of our remnant was higher than most recognized large old-growth forests and, while the herbaceous understorey was poorer in species than larger tracts, it exhibited three provincially rare species. Furthermore, the successional status and structural complexity of the remnant were typical of old-growth forests. In overall comparative terms, the remnant was found not be an outlier when ordinated with larger forests. It thus is safe to conclude that this remnant constitutes an ecological benchmark well worth protection, despite its limited size.
24113712|The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the dynamics of plant, crustacean, and coleopteran assemblages living in Mediterranean temporary wetlands. We measured assemblage parameters (species richness, diversity and abundance) and succession rates during the hydroperiod for each assemblage analysed. Moreover, the species were classified according to their affinity to the temporary aquatic habitats in order to study if each assemblage had similar patterns among species groups of habitat affinity. Only among plants, the temporary water species were dominant in terms of species richness, diversity or abundance. Cross-taxon congruence between plants and crustaceans, previously reported, was not confirmed when temporal succession was taken into account, suggesting different temporal patterns for the studied taxa. Plants showed the lowest level of successional changes and significant differences between local and regional diversity. In contrast, coleopterans had the highest level of successional changes and a different relationship between local and regional diversity, with regard to the hydroperiod phase. Finally, crustaceans had intermediate levels of successional changes and the relationship between the local and regional diversity during the hydroperiod was dependent on the type of organism (generalist vs. temporary water species). All of this gave evidence of the difficulties to use one taxonomic group in order to elucidate the ecological patterns of other groups.
90002419|This paper presents several indices to describe multivariate diversity and evenness. Multivariate generalizations of the Gini-Simpson index and the Rosenbluth index are proposed tomeasure diversity. A multivariate Gini ratio is also presented to measure evenness. These indices extend the usual univariate measures; they reflect not only the diversity of marginal distributions but also the dependence structure of abundance. The indices fulfill desirable measurement properties and are consistent with certain orderings of multivariate distributions. An order of concentration surfaces and a majorization order are also surveyed shortly.
24113496|We performed a gap analysis of protected area networks in Italy to assess the representativeness of potential natural vegetation (PNV) types of the European Natura 2000 network compared with the National Protected Area network. In this context, the PNV map, reflecting the diversity and spatial arrangement of the natural terrestrial ecosystems, can be considered as an appropriate proxy of environmental and biogeographical diversity of Italy. In this country, 775 protected areas are registered in the Official List of Protected Areas (OLPA), 2281 sites are listed as Sites of Community Interest and 590 as Special Protection Areas, constituting the Natura 2000 network. The adopted conservation target considered that any PNV type included for less than the 10% in the PAs network (OLPA, Natura 2000) was defined as a gap in the system. In particular we defined four categories of PNV protection: any PNV types with a representation of less than 10% in both the OLPA and N2000 was defined as a "total gap" (i.e., under-protected); any PNV type with a representation of less than 10% in either the OLPA or the N2000 was defined as a "partial gap"; any PNV type with a representation of between 10 and 50% in both the OLPA and N2000 was defined as "protected"; lastly, any PNV type w ith a representation of more than 50% in both the OLPA and N2000 was defined as "widely-protected". Digital overlays of PNV and PAs networks were separately performed and statistics produced, indicating the current state of protection of Potential Natural Vegetation types in the two networks (OLPA and Natura 2000). We found that more than 59% of PNV types recognized on the Italian territory is not protected by the OLPA network. On the contrary, regarding Natura 2000 network. 68% of PNV types are protected, accounting for 27% more than OLPA. Compared to the National network of OLPA, the European network Natura 2000 is characterized by a larger percentage of territory in terms of area (18% of the Italian territory for Natura 2000 vs 10% of OLPA) but also by a smaller size of the sites, allowing for a more coherent distribution and efficiency in the protection of habitat remnants ( 68% PNV types protected by Natura 2000 vs 41% by OLPA). The proposed PNV approach can help guiding decisions on where and how to spend scarce conservation management resources.
24113653|Network-based methods are being actively developed to respond to the needs for operational assessments of the degree of landscape connectivity and of the impact of landscape changes in ecological flows and related ecological processes. Among these, a recent paper by Matisziw and Murray (2009) presented the C index as an adequate and advantageous way of ranking habitat patches by their importance for the maintenance of landscape connectivity. We show that this index is equivalent and conveys the same information in undirected graphs as a previously described index, the landscape coincidence probability (LCP), which can be readily computed in any landscape network through the Conefor Sensinode software package. We slightly generalize the LCP definition for cases involving asymmetric dispersal, w hich makes LCP compatible with C and maintains the equivalency between both indices in directed graphs. We place LCP and C in a broader context of other existing indices and ongoing developments and describe how some of these may be better suited for the analysis of the connectivity in landscape networks and their changes. We conclude by highlighting the need (1) to go beyond the identification of unobstructed movement paths or habitat components (sets of interconnected patches) when pursuing the most appropriate landscape connectivity indices and (2) for increased efforts in assessing and reporting the potential overlaps, coincidences and synergies between the available approaches in order to guide the final user and facilitate index selection in a densely populated metric space.
24113709|Sampling effort in pitfall trapping sessions is routinely calculated as a product of trap numbers and time period, expressed in units of trap-days or trap-weeks. This assumes that these two components contribute equally to the catch, so that the catch from 2n traps run for z days should be equivalent to the catch of n traps run for 2z days. We tested this equivalence relationship by comparing two pitfall trapping sessions, representing an identical trapping effort, performed in the same habitat (an apple orchard in Hungary), using the same pitfall trapping arrangement. The Time Series session had 20 traps operating for 20 weeks (400 trap-weeks), while the Spatial Series session had 100 traps operating for 4 weeks (400 trap-weeks). The Time Series session caught 1265 individuals of 44 species, while the Spatial Series session had fewer (757) individuals but 52 species. The virtual structure of the two carabid assemblages was different, although the major species were the same. Rarefaction curves clearly show that the Spatial Series indicated the presence of a significantly more species-rich ground beetle assemblage than the Time Series. The "common currency" for trapping effort needs to be re-examined because its two components, number of traps and length of operation do not contribute to the final catch in the same way. This has an important consequence for the design of biodiversity monitoring: trapping effort allocation for monitoring may be better when the number of traps is at the possible maximum and the time of sampling shortened rather than the other way around.
24113526|Significant transformation of agriculture took place in Central Europe during the second half of the 20th century. The paper reviews the nature and consequences of this process in terms of grassland management and land use changes in the Liptov region (N Slovakia) and their impacts on plant communities of fen meadows (Caricion davallianae, Caricion fuscae), wet meadows (Calthion) and mesophilous grasslands (Arrhenatherion, Cynosurion). We studied in detail the changes in structure of the rare plant community Trollio-Cirsietum (Khn 1937) Oberd. 1957 that occurred between the first period (1974-1983) and the second period (2002-2003). We recorded the decrease in abundance of species characteristic for permanently wet and fen meadows (alliances Calthion and Caricion davallianae) and the increase in abundance of characteristic species of seasonally dried, mesophilous and thermophilous meadows and mesophilous fringes (classes Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, Festuco-Brometea and alliances Molinion caeruleae, Bromion erecti and Trifolion medii). In the second studied period, a large group of mesophilous and thermophilous species appeared as new in this wet-meadow community. A cumulative impact of different factors, especially drainage and intensification of surrounding grasslands as well as abandonment of the community can represent reasons responsible for observed changes. Regardless identified changes, the community still maintains its typical character in significant proportion of the studied sites and hosts a high number of threatened plant species.
24113668|Nematode communities are valuable bioindicators of soil disturbance induced by agricultural practices. We report the results of a short term experiment set on a field previously cultivated with shell beans, where different agricultural practices were applied, namely disinfection with chemicals or organic alternatives (neem, basil, marigold and clove oils). We provide a detailed description of the soil nematode community before and after the application of agricultural practices, in terms of trophic structure, nematode functional indices and diversity. We also employ network analysis techniques to analyze the structure of nematode assemblages on the basis of co-occurrence of genera in samples. Chemical disinfection had a direct lethal effect on all nematode genera reducing or even eliminating their populations, while organic amendments favored only the free living nematodes without affecting plant feeders. These differences were poorly reflected on changes of diversity and even less on those of nematode indices. Network analysis offered significant insights into the structural changes in the web of interactions among nematode genera. The network after chemical disinfection was smaller, poorly connected and almost entirely dependent on the dominant phytoparasite Paratylenchus. In the absence of chemicals, large and more complex networks were formed.
24113638|Artificial grassland plots with various degrees of diversity were established near Heishiding Nature Reserve, Guangdong Province, China. After an establishment phase of one year, one half of each plot was exposed to drought stress in order to explore the relationship between diversity and compositional stability of the grassland communities. The experiment showed that relationships between diversity and compositional stability varied with the diversity values in non-stressed control subplots and the duration of drought disturbance. When control subplots had higher evenness, species richness negatively affected compositional stability, which led to a negative relationship between diversity and compositional stability. When control subplots had lower evenness, compositional stability was determined by evenness or species identity (particular species) at different periods of drought disturbance. This resulted in negative, weakly positive or no relationships between diversity and compositional stability. Based on these results, we suggest that different relationships between diversity and compositional stability, and controversial data from such relationships in previous studies may reflect differences in environmental and experimental conditions.
24113518|Data on soil respiration of three wet meadow ecosystems in the Czech Republic are presented. There were three study sites: two sites with peaty soil, one of them aneutrophic (nitrogen rich) and second of them oligotrophic. Third site was mesotrophic with mineral soil. Soil respiration was measured in situ as CO2 efflux using a Licor 6400 equipped with a soil chamber during the vegetation seasons, since June until October 2006. Soil respiration rates were significantly affected by soil temperature, although they differed among the sites, just as nutrient availability differed on each site. Despite of seasonal variation, the nutrient rich site on organic soil consistently yielded the highest respiration rates, and nutrient poor site yielded the lowest respiration rates. The highest CO2 emissions rates in situ were measured in June, when the soil temperature was 19C. The rates reached up to 10.31 mol CO2 m-2 s-1 at eutrophic site, at peaty oligotrophic site 7.03 mol CO2 m-2 s-1, and 8.38 mol CO2 m-2 at mineral mesotrophic site, respectively. When we used a temperature dependency exponential model to avoid the effect of different soil temperature, the pattern observed in the field was even clearer. The peaty eutrophic soil was more sensitive to temperature then the mineral and peaty oligotrophic soil and C mineralization was more enhanced there.
90002550|Multi-band remotely sensed image data contain information on landscape pattern and temporal changes that are greatly underutilized in this technological era when monitoring of disturbance and ecological dynamics is increasingly important to address questions regarding sustainability of ecosystem health and climate change. Among the reasons for this loss of analytical opportunity are the inadequacy of methods for systematic extraction of pattern elements, incongruity between information paradigms for remote sensing and geographic information systems (GIS), and the sheer volume of remotely sensed image data when acquired regularly over time. Long-term cooperative landscape ecological investigations concerning habitat and change detection in conjunction with remote sensing and GIS have yielded a pattern-based approach to progressively segmenting images (PSI) that culminates in a doubly segmented image representation by sets of approximating signal vectors that serve as parsimonious proxies for pixel vectors.
90002571|The new Dutch forest monitoring network is a policy-guided, multiple-use, GIS-oriented forest monitoring network. It is designed to provide the Dutch government, on a cyclic 8-year basis, with actual information about Dutch forests. Variables that reflect the information needs of policy makers and interest groups were selected by means of interviews and workshops. High-ranking variables are: wood stock, ownership, stand age, management status, biodiversity, carbon stock, and recreational use. These and other variables are being measured in 3622 forest sites, selected according to an unaligned systematic sampling design. The data are stored in an ORACLE data base, made accessible through the internet.
24113497|The implementation of standardised methods for the monitoring of NATURA 2000 sites in Europe is still a key topic in environmental research. Effective, economically priced and, as far as possible, automated applications are required. Rapidly developing sensor technology together with advanced image processing methods offer new possibilities for application of remote sensing data to NATURA 2000 monitoring. The studies presented here combine commonly available GIS data, such as Biotope Type Maps or Forestry Site Maps with remote sensing classifications of the very high spatial resolution (VHSR) QuickBird sensor. Two knowledge-based approaches under inclusion of a priori object-based information are utilised to detect the extent of habitats as well as their quality according to the German NATURA 2000 mapping guidelines. While one method used a segmentation of forested sites in Bavaria (southern Germany), the second technique applied available objects to classify heathland habitats in the Brandenburg Region (northern Germany). The results were subsequently compared, in close cooperation with local environmental authorities, with habitats mapped terrestrially for NATURA 2000 management plans. These results indicate that different remote sensing methods can be a valuable support for terrestrial mapping. Woodland habitats can be detected and specific NATURA 2000 quality parameters (e.g., percentage of natural forest types) are recognisable. In the case of heath-dominated sites, terrestrial mapping can even be replaced by remote sensing of certain habitat types for which it is also possible to obtain adequate measures of quality. Having evaluated the qualify of forest and heathland NATURA 2000 habitats, two general challenges when implementing the guideline regionally could be indicated. Firstly, the very general scope of the Habitats Directive contradicts to specific local protection purposes. Secondly, the protection aims given for NATURA 2000 areas are very static. The Directive could be improved by adapting existing management and conservation strategies to pro-actively respond on likely anthropogenic influences.
24113649|Ponds contribute substantially to the maintenance of regional biodiversity. Despite a growing body of literature on biotic-abiotic relationships in ponds, only few generalizations have been made. The difficulty in identifying the main drivers of pond biodiversity has been typically attributed to the heterogeneity of the local and regional conditions characterizing ponds. However, little is known on how the use of different analytical approaches and community response variables affects the results of analysis of community patterns in ponds. Here, we used a range of methods to model the response of water beetle and plant community data (species richness and composition) to a set of 12 environmental and management variables in 45 farmland ponds. The strength of biotic-abiotic relationships and the contribution of each variable to the overall explained variance in the reduced models varied substantially, for both plants and beetles, depending on the method used to analyze the data. Models of species richness included a lower number of variables and explained a larger amount of variation compared to models of species composition, reflecting the higher complexity characterizing multispecies response matrices. Only two variables were never selected by any of the model, indicative of the heterogeneity characterizing pond ecosystems, while some models failed to select important variables. Based on our findings, we recommend the use of multiple modeling approaches when attempting to identify the principal determinants of biodiversity for each response variable, including at least a non-parametric approach, as well as the use of both species richness and composition as the response variables. The results of this modeling exercise are discussed in relation to their practical use in the formulation of conservation strategies.
24113403|In this paper, we examine possible sources of hierarchical (nested) structure in vegetation data. We then use the Minimum Message length principle to provide a rational means of comparing hierarchical and non-hierarchical clustering. The results indicate that, with the data used, a hierarchical solution was not as efficient as a nonhierarchical one. However, the hierarchical solution seems to provide a more comprehensible solution, separating first isolated types, probably caused from unusual contingent events, then subdividing the more diverse areas before finally subdividing the less diverse. By presenting this in 3 stages, the complexity of the non-hierarchical result is avoided. The result also suggests that a hierarchical analysis may be useful in determining 'homogeneous' areas.
90002488|The species abundance distribution of ecological communities has been represented through several mathematical models, of which the most common are: geometric series, logseries, lognormal, and a type of broken stick, this latter found only in animal communities. There is no consensus on the underlying biological processes, but initial observations on plant communities related these models to equilibrium and high richness (lognormal), stress or disturbance and low richness (logseries and geometric series). Recently the value of these relationships was challenged, and other descriptors were considered better predictors of richness, disturbance and stress. We aimed at investigating how these models and their parameters, as well as dominance and evenness are related with species richness, stress and disturbance in six tropical forest communities, SE Brazil: two well-conserved fragments, two disturbed by fire, and two swampy forests (anoxic stress). The models did not show consistent relationships with richness, disturbance or stress. The parameters and indices of diversity  (logseries) and  (lognormal) varied closely with richness, and the dominance was larger in the communities submitted to stress or disturbance. Our results indicate the need of further studies in order to validate (or refute) the use of abundance distribution models for detection of patterns related to richness, stress or disturbance in tropical arboreal communities. On the other hand, richness and dominance did respond to disturbance and stress.
24113530|Stand and leaf scale responses of loess grassland swards to elevated air CO2 concentration had been investigated in a mini FACE system during 1998-2000. The study concentrated on biomass, leaf area index (LAI) and vegetation surface temperature (stand scale) and on diurnal carbohydrate pattern and gas-exchange responses (leaf scale). Leaf net CO2 uptake under prolonged exposure to elevated CO2 showed an upward response in the dicotyledonous and a downward one in the monocotyledonous species. Dawn and evening carbohydrate levels in leaves suggested growth stimulation of the dicot under elevated CO2 and the opposite for the grass species and indicated sink limitation as a major factor determining photosynthetic acclimation at the species level. The smaller LAI as well as the insignificant biomass response to elevated air CO2 was a compounded response by multi-species stands. Under mild water shortage, elevated air CO2 concentration partly alleviated the drought effect shown by the higher relative growth rate of LAI. Canopy surface temperatures of the vegetation in the CO2 enriched rings were higher than those in the ambient rings suggesting that decreased leaf conductance and transpiration were responsible for the temperature difference between the treatments. Increased canopy surface temperature under elevated air CO2 concentration will probably lead to increased sensible heat flux and therefore enhanced convection at larger spatial scales.
90002363|Connectivity determines a large number of ecological functions of the landscape, including seed and animal dispersal, gene flow and disturbance propagation, and is therefore a key to understanding fluxes of matter and energy within land mosaics. Several approaches to quantifying landscape connectivity are possible. Among these, graph theory may be used to represent a landscape as a series of interconnected patches, where flows occur as a result of structural and/or functional patch connectivity. Within this context, we propose the use of a graph-theoretic index (i.e., the Harary index) as a measure of landscape connectivity. Results derived from the analysis of the vegetation map of Palmarola (central Italy) show that, from a statistical and ecological viewpoint, the Harary index may be a better measure of landscape connectivity than more traditional indices derived from transportation geography.
24113720|The present research deals with the impact of the invasive species Brachypodium genueme in central Apennine meadows. The study compares meadows under different management types (mown versus abandoned). B genuense spread in the abandoned condition alters the ecological status of the site. It lowers soil temperature, moisture and pH, while it increases soil C/N ratio and litter production. In terms of biotic features, phenological analysis indicated that the abandoned condition is less rich in flowering species and individuals in each analysed date. We observed a less affected temporal niche (during the first phase of B. genuense leaf growth) and two strongly influenced phases (in early spring and in correspondence with phases when B. genuense flowers and has full growth of leaves). Functional trait analysis indicated that species with runners, ability to form patches, and late flowering strategies benefit from B. genuense spread, whereas species marked by storage organs, small size, and early flowering strategies benefit in the mown condition. However, it seems that only low frequency species are heavily threatened, while the others can remain inside the plant community by shelter niche occupation.
24113637|Competition and facilitation are expected to leave different signatures in the pattern of species co-occurrence. Competition may result in a given species pair occurring less often than expected by chance, whereas facilitation may result in a given species pair occurring more often than expected by chance. We assessed the co-occurrence of pairs of herbaceous and shrubby species in Brazilian savannas, asking (1) whether a given species pair occurs more often than expected by chance, (2) whether the number of species pairs in sites with frequent fires is higher than expected by chance, (3) whether the difference in the functional traits of heterospecific pairs is lower in sites with frequent fires, and (4) whether small environmental variations in each site  instead of species interactions  could explain the co-occurrence of species. We used null models to answer the first two questions, analyses of variance to answer the third question, and detrended correspondence analyses to answer the fourth question. In all studied sites, approximately half of the heterospecific pairs occurred more often than expected by chance. So, facilitation seems to be important in determining the co-occurrence of some species in Brazilian savannas. However, high fire frequencies changed the pattern of occurrence of the species pairs, resulting in a spatial signature indistinguishable from random. Frequent fires also promoted phenotypic clustering of species. Nevertheless, wherever fire frequency is reduced, competition may lead to phenotypic overdispersion of plant species. Thus, less harsh environmental conditions in savannas may increase the competition among plant species.
24113722|It is shown that a similarity theory (ST) formulated in the context of plant community research can lead to methodological developments based on similarity functions. ST can explain and predict ecosystem states, discover links between the physical-chemical environment and the plant communities at different scales of generalization. ST is compared with fuzzy systems theory, which supports similar developments, and it is concluded that fuzzy set theory could be considered as an extension of similarity theory.
24113462|The importance of accurate species databases is debated in the recent literature of biodiversity assessment, considering that limited resources for conservation could be better allocated to assessment based on cost effective biodiversity features. I aimed to provide an understanding of sampling bias and provide practical advice to minimize bias either before or after data collection. I used 1010 km2 UTM grid data for 121 land snail species to account for geographic and taxonomic sampling bias in Hungary. Sampling intensity corrected for species richness varied significantly among regions, although regions were not good predictors of sampling intensity. Residuals were significantly autocorrelated in 15 km distance, indicating small scale heterogeneity in sampling intensity compared to species richness. Sampling coverage and intensity were higher close to human settlements and sampling intensity was higher within protected areas than outside. Commonness of species was positively associated with sampling intensity, while some rare species were over-repreented in the records. Sampling intensity of microsnails (<3 mm) was significantly lower than that of the more detectable large species (>15 mm). Systematic effects of the collecting methods used in malacological research may be responsible for these differences. Understanding causes of sampling bias may help to reduce its effects in ecological, biogeographical and conservation biological applications, and help to guide future research.
90002364|Tree species richness is remarkably high in many tropical forests, even at very fine spatial scales. However, the study of fine-scale richness is complicated by the rarefaction effect: that is, a trivial correlation between the number of individuals and the number of species. We developed null models to test whether fine-scale species richness differs from random expectation, and applied these models to a dataset of 1170 100m
90004013|This paper presents a procedure for identifying guilds using species-in-stand data. Based on a linguistic analogy relating synonymity with functional equivalence, it develops a dissimilarity coefficient for clustering species which is suitable for measuring strength of synonymity. This coefficient combines two distinct aspects of synonymity - lack of co-occurrence of two species and similarity of context of other species where either species does occur. Synonymity is further restricted through a stand clustering to avoid confounding with environmental heterogeneity. The method is applied to data from
24113535|Facilitation by nurse plants is one of the most commonly reported interactions between plants and is regarded as an important factor in structuring plant communities. We used a meta-analysis to examine the generality of these effects, focusing on cushion plants, a common life-form occurring in high-Andean ecosystems. We targeted the following questions: (1) is there a generalized positive effect of cushions on other vascular plant species along the Andes? (2) do different species groups (i.e., annuals and perennials, natives and exotics) display different association responses to cushions? (3) does the nurse effect of cushions increase with environmental severity? Results indicated that the overall effect of cushions is positive, however these positive effects were more significant amongst exotic plants than in native plants; effects were only positive for perennial plants, and were notably negative for annuals. The positive effects of cushions also increased with physical stress, but only for perennial plants. These results allow us to suggest that as a whole cushions may be acting as keystone species that maintain the structure and diversity of high-Andean plant communities. Nevertheless, since cushions also positively affect the performance of exotic plants, we should be aware of their potential role in promoting biological invasions.
90002566|The detection and evaluation of changes in vegetation patterns is a prerequisite for monitoring programs. The Swiss mire monitoring program aims to assess the changes in mire vegetation in order to examine the efficiency of the management measures. A promising way to explore and detect vegetation structure and vegetation change is the application of predictive vegetation mapping that combines image classification and predictive habitat distribution models. These models deal with predictor variables derived from remotely sensed spectral data and from environmental variables such as a digital surfacemodel (DSM). Low accuracy of environmental data to predict vegetation at the local scale is due to the difficulties to capture dominant fine-scale enironmental gradients. Using high resolution spectral and topographical data sets of 50 cm pixel size and below, the study presented here aims to improve the simulation of local-scale vegetation properties.
24113460|In this paper, 633 species (involving 10 classes, 48 families, 205 genera) collected from the alpine meadow on the eastern Qinghai-Tibet plateau were studied. We tested potential factors affecting variation in mean germination time (MGT), i.e., plant traits (adult longevity, dispersal mode and seed size) or phylogeny, to evaluate if these factors were independent or they had interaction. Nested ANOVA showed that taxonomic membership accounted for the majority of MGT variation (70%), and in the generalized linear model, family membership could explain independently the largest proportion of MGT variation (29%). The strong taxonomic effect suggests that MGT variation within taxonomic membership is constrained. The other plant traits could also explain MGT variation independently (1% by adult longevity and dispersal mode, respectively, and 2% by seed size). Thus, the phylogeny was an important constraint to maintain the stability of species, and we could simplify the question if we regarded the phylogeny as an individual factor, but we could not negate the adaptive significance of the relationship between other plant traits and seed MGT. In addition, a large percentage of the variance remained unexplained by our model, thus important selective factors or parameters may have been left out of this analysis. We suggest that other possible correlates may exist between seed germination time and additional ecological factors (for example, altitude, habitat and post-dispersal predation) or phylogenetic related morphological and physiological seed attributes (e.g., endosperm mass) that were not evaluated in this study.
24113593|Physical supporting or defense structures of plants, which decrease palatability, remain in plant tissue after a plant's death and so decrease detritus decomposition rates. Consequently, palatability and detritus decomposition rate are expected to be positively correlated. Carbon is the main component of these restricting structures, whereas nitrogen is expected to increase plant attractiveness for herbivores. In this study, we tried to confirm the expected positive relationship between palatability and detritus decomposition rate and to find the species functional traits that are responsible for this concordant response. Some traits are shared by species as a consequence of their common phylogenetic history; consequently, we also studied the effect of phylogenetic correction on the expected relationships. We assessed the palatability of meadow plant species to a generalist slug Arion lusitanicus in an aquarium grazing experiment and detritus decomposition rate in a field litter-bag test. The two characteristics are positively correlated and the relationship is strengthened by phylogenetic correction. The relationship was strongest for the decomposition rates during the first three months of exposition, but weakened when the exposition period was from six months to a year. Palatability was negatively affected by plant carbon content, but no relationship was found between plant palatability and nitrogen content. Similarly, only the relationship of litter decomposition with litter carbon content was significant. The regression tree method was used to detect the influence of species traits on species palatability and detritus decomposition rate. In general, leaf dry matter content, litter carbon content and seed weight were chosen as the best predictors of plant palatability response. Results for the detritus decomposition rate response mainly reflect supporting or defensive structure contents. Litter carbon content, seed weight and plant height are the most apparent common predictors of these variable responses. In general, our study confirmed the positive relationship between plant palatability and detritus decomposition. Both plant tissue grazing and detritus decomposition are slowed down by plant tissue supportive structures, manifested as high dry matter content or high tissue carbon content.
90002503|The study examined the vegetation composition and phenotypic traits at five sites, differing in degree of disturbance, in a tropical dry deciduous forest of India. A total of 49 species and 4033 individuals ( 9.6 cm dbh) were enumerated in the cumulative 15-ha permanently protected area. The study revealed that the five sites represented five more or less different communities (species combinations with different dominants). On the basis of phenotypic traits, these communities or sites could not be discriminated, either by proportion of species belonging to different trait categories or by the cumulative importance value of the trait categories. As a result, disturbance did not affect the predominant traits. Evidently, all the communities shared the major phenotypic traits of the dry deciduous forest. Small leaf size, medium leaf texture, rough bark texture and medium deciduousness characterized the dry deciduous forest vegetation. Both the percent of species and importance values were larger for medium or less deciduous trait categories than for highly deciduous trait, representing a trade-off between water loss and the period of dry matter synthesis.
24113631|Many methods of cluster analysis do not explicitly account for correlation between attributes. In this paper we explicitly model any correlation using a single factor within each cluster: i.e., the correlation of atributes within each cluster is adequately described by a single component axis. However, the use of a factor is not required in every cluster. Using a Minimum Message Length criterion, we can determine the number of clusters and also whether the model of any cluster is improved by introducing a factor. The technique allows us to seek clusters which reflect directional changes rather than imposing a zonation constrained by spatial (and implicitly temporal) position. Minimal message length is a means of utilising Okham's Razor in inductive analysis. The 'best' model is that which allows most compression of the data, which results in a minimal message length for the description. Fit to the data is not a sufficient criterion for choosing models because more complicated models will almost always fit better. Minimum message length combines fit to the data with an encoding of the model and provides a Bayesian probability criterion as a means of choosing between models (and classes of model). Applying the analysis to a pollen diagram from Southern Chile, we find that the introduction of factors does not improve the overall quality of the mixture model. The solution without axes in any cluster provides the most parsimonious solution. Examining the cluster with the best case for a factor to be incorporated in its description shows that the attributes highly loaded on the axis represent a contrast of herbaceous vegetation and dominant forests types. This contrast is also found when fitting the entire population, and in this case the factor solution is the preferred model. Overall, the cluster solution without factors is much preferred. Thus, in this case classification is preferred to ordination although more data are desirable to confirm such a conclusion.
90002599|With contemporary emphasis on sustainability and ecosystem-oriented natural resources management, ecological mapping at landscape scales is becoming increasingly important as a framework for environmental planning, monitoring and assessment. This is especially so when the terrain has substantial variability in elevation and steep slopes. Recognizing the importance of hydrology in landscape dynamics, we base an ecological mapping approach on topological features of terrain from a hydrologic and habitat perspective. This approach emphasizes convexities and concavities of topography as
24113625|The impact of disturbance on animal and plant assemblages has been described mainly in terms of aggregate community properties like species richness, abundance, or productivity. However, the question how disturbance acts on species interactions, particularly on patterns of co-occurrence, has received much less attention. Here we use a large pitfall trap sample of spiders from two complexes of lake islands in Northern Poland to show how disturbance by tourist visits affects species richness, composition and co-occurrence. On the pristine and protected islands of Lake Wigry, species co-occurrence was significantly segregated. Further, island species richness and abundances could be predicted from environmental correlates, particularly from island area, soil fertility and humidity. In turn, on the lake islands that are frequently visited by tourists, species co-occurrences were random and environmental correlates other than island area failed to predict species richness and abundances. However, species composition, -, -, and -diversities, as well as average local spider abundances did not significantly differ between both island complexes. Our results show that disturbance disassembles the structure of spider communities prior to visible richness and abundance effects. This result has implications for biological conservation. The detection of community disassembly might be an early sign for factors that act negatively on ecosystem functioning.
90002506|We sought to compare the efficacy of the stationary Markov model and conventional ordination techniques in describing compositional and structural changes in forest communities along natural and manmade spatial gradients at two scales, local and regional. Vegetation abundance and structure data are from six sites spanning a spatial gradient in the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence forests near Sudbury, Ontario, Canada. Ordination did not detect slope-related local gradients despite the general trend that, as distance from the pollution source increases, vegetation along the slopes begins to display Markovian spatial dynamics. We suggest that this is due to information loss resulting from static ordination analyses: information regarding transitions between observations along the natural ordering of quadrats is not maintained. Both ordination techniques and the Markov analyses detected strong regional pollution-induced gradients in abundance and structure.
24113604|Rarefaction has long represented a powerful tool for detecting species richness and its variation across spatial scales. Some authors recently reintroduced the mathematical expression for calculating sample-based rarefaction curves. While some of them did not claim any advances, others presented this formula as a new analytical solution. We provide evidence about formulations of the sample-based rarefaction formula older than those recently proposed in ecological literature.
24113553|The tree canopy characteristics of two broadleaved woods in southern England were quantified in terms of two independent measures of structure, canopy height (calculated using heights  1 m) and percentage canopy cover (derived using heights < 1 m), using airborne Light Detection and Ranging. The woods differed strikingly in structure due to their management systems; one was predominantly mature oak and the other coppice, comprising a patchwork of growth stages. Fine-scale relationships between breeding bird species distributions, determined by mapping censuses, and canopy height and canopy cover were assessed. Despite the differences in structure, species showed great consistency between the woods in their rank positions across gradients of canopy height (rank correlation between woods, r = 0.77, p < 0.001 ) and canopy cover (r = 0.61, p = 0.003). In both woods, and especially the mature oak (R2 > 0.90, p < 0.001), there was a positive correlation across bird species between the mean values of canopy height and canopy cover associated with the mapped locations of each species. We suggest that canopy height acts as an effective surrogate of woodland structure and can be applied as a predictor of woodland bird composition and distribution, at least in lowland British conditions. Species associated with young growth were more restricted by habitat structure, as measured by differences in canopy height and canopy cover between the two woods, than were species associated with taller canopies. Remote sensing of canopy height potentially offers a simple, effective way of assessing habitat availability for many species, at both woodland and landscape scales. This may be especially relevant for species dependent on highly transient vegetation structures associated with the early pre-canopy closure stages of forest growth.
90002580|Subtaxon-to-taxon ratios such as the species-to-genus ratio have been frequently used in ecology and biogeography despite their well-known sample size dependence. For instance, any subtaxon-to-taxon ratio is an increasing function of the area sampled. Hence, its validity as an ecological indicator is problematic at best. This drawback can be avoided by constructing taxon-subtaxon curves. Owing to their scale-free nature, taxon-subtaxon curves standardize the information in subtaxon-to-taxon ratios allowing for meaningful comparison of datasets
90004014|In order to enhance interpretation of two-way contingency tables (cross-classifications) derived from two hierarchical classifications, new indices are suggested to evaluate the relative contribution of nodes in either hierarchy to the nodes or to a partition of groups derived from the other hierarchy. Using these tools, cut-levels in both hierarchies can be found to define optimal partitions, and groups from both partitions can be associated in order to identify their mutual relationships. The method is illustrated with an actual example from vegetation ecology.
24113671|Among other objectives, forest inventories are aimed to identify ecological communities and to correlate community composition with environmental variables. The identification of different communities would require several forest inventories, each covering small sampling areas with relatively homogeneous environmental conditions. The multiple plot sampling method, traditionally used in local inventories of tropical forests, cannot assure such homogeneity, since even small sampling areas would show environmental heterogeneity influencing vegetation. In this paper we assessed the consequences of this heterogeneity for sampling by quantifying the variability of species abundance ranks for species sampled with 10 or more individuals in a set of plots covering a small sampling area. The species reference abundance ranks were obtained from a sample of 100 plots of 10 m  10 m each randomly set in a sampling area of 6.5 ha in a tropical forest fragment (Southeastern Brazil). For each species we used resamplings (30 trials) to obtain the species abundance ranks in sub-samples, considering different sampling intensities (n = 25, 50 and 75 plots), and compared these ranks with the species reference rank (n = 100 plots). Then, we compared the species ranks in sub-samples of 50 plots (10.000 trials) with the reference rank and assessed the frequency and extent of rank displacements. Species rank was highly variable across resampling trials for the sampling intensities of n = 25 and n = 50, but decreased considerable with a sampling intensity of n = 75 plots. The mean rank variability and especially the maximum displacement raised significantly from the seventh most abundant species on, and some species occupied quite discrepant abundance ranks in up to 10% of the 10.000 resampling trials. This high internal variability of forest samples may impair the search for floristic patterns as scale lessens, say, to the meso-scale (1-100 km 2 ). We discussed some possible ways to increase internal homogeneity of tropical forest samples with the multiple plot sampling method. Among these, objective entitation, based on an ancient phytosociological procedure, is suggested as the most appropriate for use on the hilly relieves of the Atlantic forest biome.
24113459|We analysed the role of topography, tree stand characteristics and management on the susceptibility of forest stands to abiotic natural disturbances. In 1996, stands of Brzsny Mts, Hungary were hit by a severe ice storm, then by strong winds three years later. Affected areas were mapped on aerial photos, and we built a GIS database containing variables describing topography and tree stand characteristics. The role of variables in predicting ice break and windfall was investigated by non-parametric statistical tests and by a series of C&RT (Classification and Regression Tree) analyses. Elevation, aspect and slope proved to have strong statistical relationships with the distribution of both ice break and windfall, with misclassification error (MER) of 18% and 15%, respectively, if studied without stand descriptors. Mixing ratio and age of beech were the most important stand descriptors to explain the distribution of ice break (MER=15%), whereas that of windfall was best described by the age and height of the two dominant tree species (MER=11%). The explanatory power could be increased if all variables (topographic + stand descriptors) were considered, though the increase in explanatory power was higher in the case of ice break (MER decreased from 15% to 11%) than for windfall (MER decreased from 11% to 10%). Since management related stand variables (beech mixture ratio, age, height, amount of recently felled stock, slenderness) and susceptibility to disturbance events seemed to be related, our results suggest that the sensitivity of tree stands could be decreased by increasing compositional and structural heterogeneity.
90002480|A pulse-perturbation experiment, designed to assess the impact of top predators, resource availability, and the interaction between predators and resources, was conducted in the inquiline community found in a natural population of the pitcher plant
90002597|Plant community types and botanical composition of herbaceous and woody plants in the Borana lowlands were investigated by multivariate methods (TWINSPAN and DCA) based on 125 plots of size 20 m  20 m sampled from three districts across different functional land use units. By TWINSPAN, eight plant communities were identified: (i)
90002603|Abstract
24113519|Remnants of the former semiarid forest-steppe vegetation of Hungary are suspected to undergo degradation processes because of recent land-use changes. Secondary succession towards closing of the vegetation starts with shrub invasion, mainly with species of the shrub layer of loess steppe oak forest. Soil respiration (SR) activity of the intercanopy loess grassland community was followed occasionally along of six years period, as well as the spatial patterns of SR and soil water content (SWC) with three direct measuring campaigns. Dependence of SR on SWC-soil temperature was statistically significant for the six years period, but the rest of the variance should be explained by other factors, as found for normalized difference vegetation index. In the spatial analysis, significant differences were found in the ranges of semivariograms according to the seasonal variation of soil moisture content. Larger scale patches were found under summer water stress (4 m for SR, 2.6 m for SWC) and autumn senescence (3.8 m for SR, 1.3 m for SWC) periods than under well-watered, peak performance summer circumstances (0.8 m for SR, 0.6 m for SWC). This suggests that homogeneity of patterns is typical at good water supply, while coarse-grained patches prevail under drought stress.
90002616|Different diversity measures of forest floor assemblages were evaluated in order to check if they can be used as indicators of forest naturalness. We compared vascular and bryophyte vegetation of two habitat types in an unman-aged beech-dominated reserve and five managed stands of different ages. We used systematically collected data characterizing four spatial scales obtained by successively aggregating neighbouring quadrats. Species richness did not always differentiate near natural sites from managed sites, and the observed difference depended very much on the spatial scale used. The behaviour of Shannon-Wiener diversity function can only be understood if both the species richness and the evenness components are considered. Near natural plots had high Shannon-Wiener diversity values even at the finest spatial scale not only because of high number of species, but also because of high evenness. We found that a simple measure of pattern diversity  spatial variation of species importance  was the most effective in differentiating the diversity of plots with different levels of naturalness. The absolute values of pattern diversity in the forest floor vegetation were the highest in those plots where the characteristics of important limiting ecological factors were generated by natural disturbance. Vascular and bryophyte species responded differently to tree stand structural characteristics. The diversity of vascular vegetation was determined mainly by the spatial variation of light availability, whereas that of bryophyte vegetation responded to the amount and spatial heterogeneity of appropriate substrates (dead wood, rock). The use of pattern sensitive diversity measures is necessary to reveal diversity-naturalness relationships. We suggest that all diversity descriptors should be calculated for different spatial scales, since their change with spatial scale was as informative as their actual values.
90002593|We examined the composition and spatial structure of the understorey vegetation at two sites with different fire histories in a mature
90002421|Ecological transition zones are believed to be unique in their ability to shed light on the organization of populations and communities. In this paper, we study vegetation dynamics in the Great Plains short-grass steppe and Chihuahuan desert grassland ecotone in New Mexico, USA, using long-term, high resolution transect studies of the Sevilleta Long-Term Ecological Research Program. We focus on spatial pattern and examine this in several ways: patch size distribution, spatial autocorrelation analysis, and fractal scaling. These methods are used to examine patch size distributions in two sites representing distributional limits of the dominant species and for detection of an emergent scaling property. We found no characteristic spatial resolution (quadrat size), but rather a fractal structure of spatial variation in abundance and a trend towards consistency of the pattern in time when species were closer to their distributional limit. In this, we were able to detect a robust power law behaviour (the emergent property), indicating strong spatial organization via anti-persistence. Our investigation was exploratory in nature; we feel the results are highly suggestive of intrinsic organization in ecological dynamics and may also be useful in generating testable hypotheses regarding the behaviour of species along ecotones.
24113554|Bees are the most important pollinators in Europe. We studied bee assemblages on 7 pairs of extensively and intensively grazed sites in three lowland grassland types in Hungary. No chemicals were applied on the grasslands. The bees were collected using sweep net surveys and 1 m wide transect surveys in 2003. We mapped land-use types (grasslands; arable fields; forests; built-up areas; marshy habitat and open water) based on aerial photographs within a 500 m radius of each study site. We captured 483 individuals of 124 Apoidea species in total. This shows very diverse and species rich bee assemblages in these semi-natural grassland areas. Both diversity and percentage of rare species were the highest on the Kiskunsg alkali area. The dominance of honey bee (Apis mellifera) was very low at each site. Neither species richness nor abundances differed between extensively and intensively grazed sampling sites, among regions, and between edge and interior of sites. However, both species richness and abundance of bees correlated positively with species richness and cover of flowering plants, indicating the important role of food sources. From the landscape parameters wet areas were preferred by small species, while large species tended to avoid build-up areas.
24113547|The influence of elevation and vegetation characteristics on the spatial pattern of an epigeic true bug assemblage was investigated along a transect in a sandy grassland of Kiskunsg. A 55 m long transect through wind grooves and dune tops, perpendicular to the vegetation borders was established. Both the moving split window technique and the ordination method revealed that dune top habitat has a distinct Heteroptera assemblage. This sand dune habitat was characterized by the most abundant Heteroptera species. We did not observe a distinct true bug assemblage in the wind groove habitat. Canonical correspondence analysis and multiple linear regressions showed that the relative altitude had a greater effect on the distribution of true bugs than vegetation cover and plant species richness.
90002424|I use prospects to connote the continuing subversion of the environment. Expectations refer to what I think Statistics should be making of itself in the era of global change science. I develop thoughts on these in three main sections. In the first, I recount up-to-date information about global warming. This topic is intriguing to me, since global warming is potentially the most subversive environmental process, appears least preventable, and as such, most deserving to be a focal point in ecological study scenarios. In the second section, I discuss briefly the ecological agenda and the implications therein for definition of the sampling environment. The third and last large section explains how I think of what should constitute an applicable statistical dialect for users in global change science. I detail the basic principles, enumerate choices, and deal with other bare necessities upon which such a Statistics should be founded.
24113628|It is widely reported that the productivity-richness relation (PRR) is highly variable, and several field studies suggest that the PRR varies with observational scale. Here we provide the first experimental study to test whether the PRR is scale-dependent when all replicate ecosystems have similar initial conditions. We also test the relation between productivity and compositional dissimilarity, and whether the PRR varies with ecosystem size. Moderately complex replicated microcosms were assembled consisting of a range of protozoa, algae, and a diverse bacterial flora. We found that the PRR of protozoan and algal communities varied with observational scale, but was unrelated to ecosystem size. Specifically, protozoan and algal richness increased monotonically with productivity at the local scale, but became flattened at the regional scale. This varying PRR at different scales occurred because dissimilarity among replicates decreased with productivity. Thus, in this model system, our experimental approach found a different form of scale dependence than previous field research. We speculate that this difference results from different processes governing extinctions at low levels of productivity.
24113365|Definitions of seed banks are discussed in the introductory part of the paper. In the second part, a literature review regarding sampling problems in soil seed bank ecology is presented. Regarding sampling depth, a rapid decline in soil seed content is demonstrated from example studies. The use of soil cores with 5 cm or 10 cm depth is suggested to ensure comparability of results. For determination of optimal sample volumes for various communities, the species saturation model is suggested such that "minimal volume" can be defined for soil seed banks in the same way that "minimal area" can be defined in phytosociological studies. Although sampling time may depend on research goals for vegetation types with a winter standstill period, late autumn sampling is suggested for detecting the entire soil seed bank, whilst late spring sampling is recommended for the examination of its persistent part. Studies looking at medium (plant community level) and fine scales (patch level) have demonstrated that soil seed bank distributions show horizontal aggregation for most of the cases and for most of the species. Seed dispersal processes which are among major factors responsible for such aggregated patterns are also discussed.
90002548|Quantifying and documenting succession has been a challenge to ecologists for many years. A variety of measures have been generated but do not seem to have been widely adopted. We propose the use of an intuitive and quantifiable measure that is amenable to both model building and hypothesis testing, and apply the method to a long-term, ongoing succession project in southeastern Ontario. We compare our measure with turnover rate (Diamond 1969) and lambda (Shugart and Hett 1973). We found that although these measures can determine when change within the community is occurring, the nature of this change and the resultant composition of the community is not readily gleaned from the measure. Our measure, by grouping plants as either early or late, allows the relative composition of the community to be understood with a single number. The benefit of using an aggregate measure such as ours, is that a variety of questions can be examined, such as when will a community revert to its original composition following fire? As an example, we utilized our measure on a post-fire succession data set from northern Montana. The results estimate that sites will take anywhere from 3 to 100 years to return to their pre-fire composition, based on current environmental conditions.
90002422|One possible explanation of variation in vegetation is based on the variable Poisson model. In this model, species occurrence is presumed to follow a Poisson distribution, but the value of the Poisson parameter for any species varies from point to point, as a result of environmental variation. As an extreme, this includes dividing the given habitat into areas favourable to a community and areas which are unfavourable, or at least not occupied. The spatial area can then be viewed as a series of patches within which each species follows a Poisson distribution, although different patchesmay have different values for the Poisson parameter for any particular species.
24113629|Seed dispersal is a limiting factor in the maintenance and distribution of plant communities, especially in rainforest ecosystems where a major proportion of plant species are dispersed by animals. Knowledge of seed removal by terrestrial mammals (particularly small mammals) in Araucaria forest patches scattered in Campos grassland is relatively sparse. In this study, we assessed: (1) whether the removal rate of Araucaria angustifolia seeds differs in different successional stages of Araucaria forest advancing over grassland, and (2) the importance of small mammals and others vertebrates for seed removal rates in each environment type. We used seed removal experiments and camera trapping to answer these questions. Our results showed that seed removal was higher in more-forested sites than in open ones and in control treatment in 2006, we found an interaction between successional stage and treatment in 2007 and, in 2008, only treatments differed significantly. Our photographic records were mostly of small cricetid rodents. Seed-removal increment as a function of forested area suggests increased use of these sites by terrestrial mammals as patches develop in grassland. The use of large patches by mammals may increase the probability of mammal-dispersed plants colonizing patches as they attain a given structural development, which might determine to some degree the future patch nucleation dynamics.
90002600|Allelopathic effects of
90002471|Several different stochastic models of niche apportionment have been proposed to explain the structure of species relative abundance patterns within communities. Here I deal with the converse issue, i.e., whether it is possible to infer past niche apportionment processes from current relative abundance patterns.
24113536|In two arid/semiarid regions, we studied diversity of algae in lakes and pools with salinity ranging from 0.1 up to 39. In plankton and periphyton of 34 lakes in northern Kazakhstan, we found 252 species belonging to 113 genera of 8 algal divisions. In 24 pools with experimental salinity ranges in the Negev desert of Israel, we recorded 86 species from 47 genera of 6 algal divisions. The dominant groups of both arid regions are represented by widespread species of diatoms, green algae, and cyanobacteria in similar proportions. Alkaliphiles among the indicators of acidification and betamesosaprobionts among the indicators of saprobity prominently prevail in both regions. The indices of saprobity in lakes (1.48-2.7) and in pools (0.75-2.18) reflect a low-trophic loading. Oligohalobes-indifferents are most common in both arid regions. Cluster analysis based on data containing 420 species revealed 9 clusters, of which the highly diverse communities of low mineralized lakes and pools and the low diversity communities of highly-mineralized lakes and pools are separated at the highest dissimilarity level. CCA analysis revealed correlation of the algal species diversity preferences with salinity level in lakes in Kazakhstan and in pools of Israel, which are more impacted by arid factors. These results point to mineralization being the most important variable defining the diversity levels irrespective of the type and location of reservoirs in the arid regions.
90002602|Understanding the relationship between the distribution of organisms and their environment is important for regional conservation planning. While most herpetofaunal community studies address environmental influence on species
90002562|A cell-grid method was used to survey seasonal changes in four herbaceous communities of a wooded pasture. Permanent plots consisted in 1-m
90004015|A study conducted to determine the ecological status of vegetation under a
24113351|The paper evaluates spatial autocorrelation structure in grassland vegetation at the community level. We address the following main issues: 1) How quadrat size affects the measurement of spatial autocorrelation for presence/absence and cover data? 2) What is the relationship between spatial autocorrelation and classification? 3) Is there a temporal change of spatial autocorrelation in the vegetation studied? We found that multivariate variogram shape, variance explained and the sill are different for presence/absence data and cover data, whereas quadrat size increases apparently introduce a stabilizing effect for both. Spatial stationarity is detected for species presence, and non-stationarity for cover. A new graphical tool, the clusterogram is introduced to examine spatial dependence of classification at various numbers of clusters. We found that spatial autocorrelation plays a crucial role in the classification of vegetation and therefore we suggest that its effect should not be removed from clustering. Mutual interpretation of variogram and clusterogram shape may be informative on the number of meaningful clusters present in the data. Spatial autocorrelation structure did not change markedly after 23 years for presence/absence data, indicating that the vegetation of the study area is stationary in time as well. The present study demonstrates that traditional quadrat data are suitable for evaluating spatial autocorrelation, even though field coordinates are recorded several years after sampling is completed.
24113635|Five distinct habitats along salinity gradient were explored for plant ecological attributes including soil plant interaction, vegetation composition and species distribution in the Cholistan desert. Higher saline sites supported Sporobolus ioclados with Aeluropus lagopoides, Cymbopogon jwarancusa, Ochthochloa compressa, Haloxylon recurvum and Suaeda fruticosa, whereas moderately saline habitats supported predominantly Fagonia indica, C. jwarancusa and O. compressa. The community structure and composition of each habitat type were very specific, the most dominant component being S. ioclados. Each species has very specific relation to different environmental variables, and this reflects the habitat status, ecological adaptations and stress tolerance degree of the individual species. On the whole, it can be concluded that salinity alone was not responsible for the distribution of species at salt affected habitats.
24113504|Agricultural management is a major driver of changes in floral and faunal species richness of anthropogenic landscapes. Counteracting the negative impact of industrialized agriculture by providing subsidies to farmers for environmentally friendly agricultural practices, agri-environmental schemes (AES) are the most important policy instruments to protect European biodiversity in agricultural landscapes. However, as they are rarely cost-effective, there is an urgent need for evaluation and improvement. To assess the environmental effects of the Austrian AES, we mapped landscapes and vascular plants in 1998 and 2003 and birds in 2003. The sampling areas were located in the three most important types of Austrian agricultural landscape, i.e., grassland in alpine valleys and basins, mixed agriculture in mountain areas, and eastern arable land. We investigated the agri-environmental measures (AEMs) in a parcel-wise manner and analyzed their effects on landscape values and biodiversity. Reduction of agrochemicals showed positive effects on biodiversity of vascular plants in grassland and birds in arable land. Targeted measures that directly address threatened species were most effective, but had much less coverage. Contradicting developments became apparent for landscape structure and ecological infrastructures, but effects of the AES were generally larger in simple than in complex landscapes. We conclude that AEMs are currently not targeted enough to effectively halt biodiversity losses, and recommend better regionalization by offering landscape-context specific measures, stronger focus on maintenance and improvement of landscape diversity, avoidance of counterproductive development, and improvement of the coverage of specific conservation measures.
90002583|We examined the environmental factors associated with community structure in the inquiline communities of the purple pitcher plant (
24113673|Ecological theory predicts that the species composition of island habitats is, among others, shaped by the mass effect of nearby ill-adapted populations, but this has rarely been tested. We investigated small calcareous spring fens scattered within species-rich grasslands in a region in which particular locations differ in climatic and edaphic conditions. Fens in colder, moister and less calcareous north-eastern (NE) locations harboured more plant species from surrounding grasslands and displayed higher similarity with the surroundings than the fens in warmer, drier and more calcareous south-western (SW) locations. Fen species richness correlated significantly with surrounding species richness in the NE locations, whereas no correlation was found for the SW locations. Fens in SW locations are characterized by both intense tufa formation, which creates extreme ecological conditions, and the contrasting environmental conditions compared to surrounding grasslands. We demonstrated that the mass effect does not always significantly shape the species composition of island habitats and that the landscape species pool may not influence extreme habitats. This finding accords with the Intermediate difference hypothesis, which predicts a unimodal relationship between the strength of the spatial mass effect and the ecological similarity between neighbouring plots, and could be utilized in the selection of model habitats for exploring large-scale ecological phenomena without the possibly confounding spatial mass effects.
24113645|Biome interfaces are expected to exhibit chorological symmetry, i.e., decreasing trends in the number of species associated with each of the two neighbouring biomes as we progress from one into the other. Our aim was to test for such a pattern within the forest steppe biome, which is a transition zone in itself between the temperate deciduous forests and the steppe biome. Presence of chorological symmetry would provide indirect evidence for the prehuman presence of zonal steppes in the Carpathian basin. We also whished to provide an example with this analysis for drawing biogeographical conclusions based on quantitative species occurrence data, an information source hitherto neglected in Central Europe. Occurrence patterns of forest and steppe species were analysed at the Duna-Tisza kze (Danube-Tisza Interfluve) by the traditional qualitative biogeographic method and by hierarchical classification of predicted spatial pattern based on Generalized Linear Models with logistic link function. Species presences were explained by variables describing spatial orientation. In this approach, an outgroup of sand grassland species was also added to characetrise the discrimination ability of the approach. The quantitative method discriminated the outgroup of sand grassland species, providing evidence of its suitability for our purpose. The results of the quantitative investigations were also in accordance with the qualitative evaluation. Surprisingly, forest and steppe species showed similar distributional patterns, i.e., no chorological symmetry was discernable. The quantitative biogeographic approach unveiled important evidence for deciding about the potential presence of zonal steppes in the Carpathian basin. Although the observed similarity of the distribution of forest and steppe species may have multiple reasons, the major cause of the lack of chorological symmetry is most probably the lack of zonal steppe South of the forest steppe biome in the Carpathian basin. Additional explanations include land use pattern and the mountain belt around the basin acting as a refugium in the ice ages.
90002585|A mosaic of Campos grassland and
90002354|Vegetation dynamics is a stochastic process of species replacement after disturbance. It occurs because individual species are limited by general constraints and trade-offs. As these constraints and trade-offs are becoming better known, we understand more about the relationships between disturbance dynamics, species pools, and vegetation dynamics. This paper provides a summary of recent work on plant scaling and ecological trade-offs, and explores its implications for vegetation dynamics. Those aspects of succession that are predictable  given the local species complement  can be understood as consequences of these general patterns and constraints. Several are explored in this paper. The inherently stochastic nature of the process derives from the disturbance dynamics that forces it, from the sampling processes that are responsible for selecting potential invaders, and from the chance processes involved in species interactions. The dynamics of species that invade established communities is the least understood but potentially the most crucial aspect of vegetation dynamics. The relation of community invasion to gap creation and to scaling constraints is briefly discussed.
90002498|The relationship between productivity and species diversity was investigated at the quadrat level for three old-field plant communities that varied in time since the last major disturbance from cultivation. A positive relationship between productivity (estimated by above-ground dry biomass) and the species richness component of diversity was detected only for quadrats from the most recently disturbed community. The communities that experienced longer post-disturbance time showed no significant relationship between productivity and species richness. Quadrat productivity, however, was negatively related to the species evenness component of diversity in all three communities, i.e., regardless of time since disturbance. Furthermore, analyses of covariance using log biomass, species richness and species evenness as response variables, log soil nitrate concentration as a covariate and time since disturbance as a factor revealed that residual log biomass was significantly negatively correlated with residual species evenness, but was not significantly correlated with residual species richness. These results support the view that the productivity of plots within natural vegetation is related more predictably to the relative composition of species (reflected by evenness) than to the number of species present, especially as succession progresses.
90002614|We propose a method that has general relevance to the digital representation of spatial variation of multivariate landscape data. It is based on the average similarity that operational geographic units (OGU) have with the adjacent ones according to characters relevant understanding landscape patterns and dynamics. The method is flexible and easily executable within the technological framework of geographic information systems (GIS) that today is available even free of charge or at very low cost. An example shows how the method, applied to spatial data of a floristic project for the urban area of Trieste (NE-Italy), can identify floristically homogeneous patches and can quantify the heterogeneity of the transition zones between such patches.
90002470|In this paper we examine the impact of runnelling on the vegetation of a salt marsh. Runnelling is a form of habitat modification used for mosquito control in Australia. Defining the states of the system through unsupervised clustering of vegetation records using the minimum message length principle, 11 states (or classes) were identified. The runnelled sites have a greater diversity of states present than the unrunnelled ones. The states at each time for each site were then used to develop transition matrices. From these, two different pathways were identified, indicating the patterns of change. The method of showing changes relied on pictures that represent average species size and density. Both the two main pathways of change started with the dominant grass (
24113602|Breeding bird communities were studied by line-transect in burnt pinewood and unburnt pinewoods, during three years subsequently to a fire event, in a coastal woodland of Mediterranean central Italy. We analyzed data following a diversity/dominance approach that ranks the species in order of their abundance, to obtain rank/abundance diagrams ('Whittaker plots'). Although it is generally accepted that fire may induce structural changes in forest communities of breeding birds, we observed more evident effects when considering the assemblage of forest-specialist species. When considering the whole community of birds, ordinate intercepts of the regression between rank and relative abundance of species were not significantly different between unburnt and burnt plots in any of the three years of study. However, when considering only the forest-related species, there was a significant difference between unburnt and burnt plots in all the years of study. Evenness showed lower values that were explicited by the diversity/dominance diagrams (lower collocation of the curves of burnt pinewoods if compared to unburnt ones). Overall, the patterns observed in this study suggest that the effects of fire disturbance were more evident at the ecological level than at the taxonomic-level assemblages. The gradual decline of the more sensitive species due to fires and the proportional increase of edge/generalist species may induce a species turnover in burnt woods with cascade and relaxation effects which could be evidenced by diversity/dominance diagrams. Consequently, it is useful to separate the effects of fires at community-level and at assemblage-level when studying bird communities in areas subjected to fires.
90002587|The relationship between plant communities and elevation in the Guandi mountainous area was studied. Data from 89 sampling units, each of 10 m x 20 m size, taken along an elevation gradient were analyzed by TWINSPAN, DECORANA and diversity and evenness indices. The samples were clustered into 23 groups by TWINSPAN, representing 23 vegetation types. The composition and distribution of communities varied greatly along the altitude gradient, suggesting that community diversity is closely related to elevation in the Guandi Mountains. This is due to the change of temperature and water-conditions along the elevation gradient. Species heterogeneity and evenness were significantly correlated with elevation along the entire gradient, but showing first a trend of increases and then decreases, corresponding to the hypothesis of maximum diversity at medium elevation. Species richness varied greatly in the study area, and was not significantly correlated with elevation.
24113598|A considerable amount of research has been conducted on the influence of landform features on the distribution of vegetation on floodplains of major rivers. Considerably less work has examined this relationship along smaller channels in mountainous terrain. We utilized multivariate statistical techniques to examine the relationship between landform types and riparian plant floristics along small streams at the Cedar River Municipal Watershed in western Washington, USA. Riparian geomorphic surfaces were assigned to one of four landform classes based on topographic characteristics and position relative to the stream channel: low floodplain, high floodplain, terrace and hillslope. Landform exerted a strong influence on the distribution of tree, shrub and understory plant species. Certain taxa were found only on one or two of the landforms. Other species displayed a gradient in abundance across landforms. No single species occupied all landforms at the same level of abundance. The distribution patterns of species among the landforms suggested that primary drivers in the organization of the plant communities were moisture and susceptibility to disturbance. Plants preferring high moisture levels and resistant to the effects of fluvial disturbance typically were found on the floodplain landforms. Communities with hardwood-dominated overstories and dense shrub understories were prevalent on these sites. Slopes and terraces supported species able to cope with drier conditions and those unable to persist with frequent disturbance. Conifers were prevalent only on these drier, infrequently-disturbed landforms. These results indicate that restoration measures to increase the presence of conifer trees in riparian areas, a common activity in the Pacific Northwest, should be applied only on landforms that would naturally support these species.
90002553|The paper deals with two bee species collecting nectar from two plant species. It is assumed that the nectar stock is reduced but not exhausted by the nectar collection, each individual's pay-off depends linearly on its own foraging strategy (i.e., on the probability of a visit to a plant species) and on the average strategies of both species. For the corresponding matrix game model, it is shown that evolutionary stability of a totally mixed equilibrium foraging strategy pair is only determined by the efficiency parameters of nectar collection. The latter parameters depend on morphological characteristics of all involved species, determined by the long-term evolutionary processes. The evolutionary stable foraging strategy is locally asymptotically stable with respect to the corresponding replicator dynamics.
24113633|This paper demonstrates a possible application of large historical vegetation data sets as reference to reveal natural trends. Phytosociological relevs re-sampled after 3-6 decades were used to detect and interpret long-term plant compositional changes of seven rock grassland communities in Hungary. Altogether 151 re-established plots were subject of the study. Data analyses were designed to minimize the negative effects arising from the application of historical information. Principal coordinates analysis was used to discover general compositional changes. With the help of ecological indicator values and species attributes, vegetation state trends were evaluated. Principal coordinates analysis reveals a uniform displacement of plot averages in the ordination space. Ecological indicator values for nitrogen requirement of vascular plants show a significant increase in mesotrophic categories. Occurrences of species typical of rock grasslands decreased significantly. Natural pioneers, disturbance-tolerant and weed species increased in number. Nevertheless, their amount is relatively low and the natural constituents of the communities still dominate, which is a sign of only a minor disturbance. Considering the wide geographical distribution of the sample plots, general changes seem to indicate pressures operating at large scales. These include elevated nitrogen deposition, increased rates of erosion and trampling caused by overpopulated ungulates and more frequent summer drought events. Acidification only occurs in silicate grasslands as calcareous soil types have higher buffering capacities. The global tendency of biotic homogenisation with the increase of common species was also detected over time. The study showed that the use of historical vegetation data enables us to estimate long-term trends in vegetation state.
24113600|Scepticism largely deflated, and the denial machine's intent to mislead unmasked, climate warming owing to anthropic carbon emission is now seen by most as an ongoing process. When compared to the historic rates, the predicted warming rate and concomitant rates of biotic response should be considered simply colossal. This is the point about which the present paper gives insight based on numerical analyses. The Vostok temperature series, its different transforms, and palynological spectra from global sites are the basic data. These are marshalled in support of the paper's main proposition that the thermal effect on the vegetation depends not only on the rate of troposphere warming or cooling, but very much on the velocity of onset and length of duration. The main text begins with a definition of terms, followed by a short essay tracing how the conceptualisation of the climate warming paradigm evolved from initial scepticism to acceptance as a reality. The technical sections treat the conversion problem from Vostok inversion-layer temperature differences to global mean rates. It offers frequency distributions for historic warming/cooling rates, and explains the latitude dependence of the translation of the rates into local thermal flux. Presentation of examples of historic thermal events and the effect on the global vegetation close the main text. Statistical analyses are involved based on a novel methodology. The methods are concerned with formation migration rates, metrics of compositional transition velocity and acceleration, long-term variation in the representation of specific taxa in palynological spectra, taxon traits and taxon plasticity, and hotspots detection in compositional transitions. The palynological data are examined in synchrony with historic trends in the troposphere's Late Quaternary temperature history. Owing to the broad topical contents, the paper adapts a modular structure of presentation which requires the evaluation and interpretation of the results where they are presented. An overview is given at the end with emphasis on the general trends.
90002584|We investigated how cluster analysis and diversity-ordering can be used for the classification of geographically and historically distinct plant and insect communities. The study sites include fens and
24113358|Disturbance is considered one of the main factors influencing plant species composition and diversity. We conducted a field study to address the plant community response in a coastal marsh to a major disturbance. In 1992, muskrats (Ondatra zibethicus L.) completely removed vegetation within a 450 ha area of intermediate coastal marsh in Texas, USA. We used vegetation data collected prior to the disturbance (1989-1991) as a baseline for comparison to that recorded annually for a decade ( 1992-2002) following the disturbance. We compared species diversity, richness, relative abundance, evenness, and species similarity between pre and postdisturbance periods to evaluate the temporal response of the disturbed plant community. Plant diversity in the study area returned to predisturbance levels after 10 years. Species diversity in the study area had two peaks following the main disturbance. These peaks are associated with fluctuations of the water levels in the area. Our results suggest that it is possible to control the sedge or grass dominance in a community by subjecting the area to a carefully timed willful disturbance (e.g., grazing or fluctuating water levels) to achieve management goals. However, vegetation composition in the area changed from a grass-dominated (predisturbance) to sedge-dominated (postdisturbance) community. At the conclusion of sampling in 2002, plant species abundance, evenness, dominance, and richness conditions reached levels similar to predisturbance. However, the species composition after a decade postdisturbance differed from that during the predisturbance period. Therefore, even though we are able to predict the return of species diversity, evenness, and richness of a community after a period following disturbance, the actual species composition of an intermediate marsh following recovery is difficult to determine accurately, as it is contingent on several biotic and abiotic conditions that prevail while the system recovers from disturbance.
24113527|The relationship between some soil physical-chemical characteristics, with more focus on the types of salt-specific anions and the colonisation parameters of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) were examined on the most dominant halophytes, grown at four saline soils in Hungary. At site Z (Zm) mainly the chloride, at site Ny (Nyrlapos) mainly the sulphate ions dominated in the soil samples, while at site A (Apajpuszta) and site Zsz (Zabszk) the carbonate anions were the most frequent. A large colonisation variability of the AM fungi were found in the four saline sites and the studied halophytes. Among the affecting soil-plant factors a strong host dependency was recorded with almost no mycorrhiza colonisation on Puccinellia limosa and the highest values at the Plantago maritima and Aster tripolium. As a function of the salt-levels a relative location of the halophytes could be found at each sites. The AMF colonisation intensity (M%) and functioning, measured as arbusculum richness (A%) was reduced with the overall increasing salinity, more particularly with the total cation-content of the soils. The deleterious effect of some other abiotic factors, i.e., the very poor or rich nutrient availability and the humus accumulation tended to be also negatively correlated by the mycorrhizal parameters.
90002611|Competing species often coexist, but the mechanisms allowing long-term coexistence are rarely tested via direct experimental manipulation. We experimentally tested the mechanisms of coexistence in a classic model system, laboratory microcosms in which two species of ciliate protists competed for bacteria. Previous work shows that the species used here compete for bacteria, but can coexist despite large differences in grazing ability. We tested three hypotheses that might explain this surprising coexistence: resource partitioning, chemically-mediated interference competition, and differential use of space. To test for resource partitioning, we conducted an experiment testing the effects of bacterial species richness and composition on the long-term outcome of competition. Manipulating bacterial diversity and composition alters the scope for resource partitioning. Despite strong evidence for differential resource use (e.g., the two ciliates shifted bacterial species composition in different ways), initial bacterial richness and composition did not affect the long-term outcome of competition. Remarkably, the competitive outcome was unchanged even when ciliates competed for a single bacterial species, indicating that the observed resource partitioning is irrelevant to the competitive outcome. In further experiments, we ruled out differential space use and chemically-mediated interference competition as explanations for this surprising coexistence. Coexistence of ciliates on a single bacterial species might reflect partitioning of intraspecific bacterial diversity, and/or osmotrophy or consumption of particulate detritus by the weaker competitor. The results show that this classic model system is not as well-understood as had been previously thought. More broadly, the results dramatically illustrate that merely observing niche differences between coexisting species is no evidence that those differences are either necessary or sufficient for long-term coexistence.
90002426|A geographical region, containing an unknown number of species, is partitioned into
90002555|It is examined whether caddisfly assemblages collected by light trapping are influenced by altitude. From twenty-nine sites, a total of 29 seasons catches were obtained in 1995. The total number of caddisfly species collected was 53, and the number of individuals caught was 11,128. As a result of non-metric multidimensional scaling based on quantitative data, two groups of caddisfly assemblages could be distinguished: those collected in lowland (sites under 150 m a.s.l.) and the others from highland habitats (sites above 150 m a.s.l.). The indicator value method found assemblages and species most characteristic of the two kinds of habitats.
90002564|A method is presented and discussed that minimises uncertainties in change analysis of sequential vegetation maps due tot subjectivity in boundary interpretation. This previous boundary method is based upon the concept of map changes, which implies that sequential maps are not made independently but are based upon a previous map: only changes in the old maps boundaries (both in space and vegetation typology) are interpreted. It was shown that themap changes concept increased the reliability of change analysis results in a coastal salt marsh in the Netherlands. The method may be applied easily in other studies in which photo-interpretation is used for monitoring purposes. The method is especially recommended in low dynamic areas, where slow changes in vegetation patterns take place and the effects of photo-interpretation uncertainty are relatively high.
24113523|Grassland ecosystems in the Carpathian Basin may be particularly vulnerable to current and predicted changes in precipitation, and ecosystem responses to potential effects of water are not well understood. To examine how water addition can affect the species composition and structure, and CO2-flux of a Central European natural steppe plant community, grassland monoliths were irrigated for three consecutive years at Gdll, from 2002 through 2004. The loess grassland studied by ex situ is a characteristic plant association of Hungary and similar vegetation can be found in other temperate regions. The treatment consisted of spray irrigation during night-time only in the growing season as well as aboveground biomass removal twice per year. Interannual and intraannual dynamics of species richness, Shannon Diversity, percentage cover, and different functional groups (monocots/dicots; plant life forms; social behaviour types; C4/C3 plants), and Net Ecosystem CO2 Exchange in treated and untreated permanent plots, were studied simultaneously. To measure NEE and water vapour at stand level a self-developed, portable, non-destructive open chamber system (d=60cm) was used. The majority of the examined parameters varied considerably among years at both irrigated and control, but concerning carbon fluxes water addition effects were evident in dry periods only. At the treated plots, in general species richness, Shannon Diversity, the number of plant life forms and social behaviour types, the ratio of dicots and C4 plants declined with addition of water. Our study proved that decline in species richness and Shannon diversity is not necessarily followed by the reduction of stand physiological (synphysiological) processes.
90002468|When working with raw data for multiple environmental indicators, it can be difficult to assess quality or health because of the large number of indicators and inconsistencies among the indicators. By grouping the raw data into rankings, the data become more manageable and more comprehensible. We do not, however, want to lose information as a result of the groupings. It is possible to assess the quality of grouping options graphically by seeing if the resulting assessments of health are concordant with the raw data. This can be done through the use of CDF-index values, cumulative distribution function plots, parallel coordinates plots, and scatterplots. A major purpose of this paper is to present approaches and the graphics for comparison and prioritization based on quintiles used, in this case, for ecological assessment of a large region.
24113669|Species richness, resource availability, and disturbance are the primary factors considered in assessing the invasibility of plant communities. Nonetheless, the density of individuals in a community is a common and easy trait to measure. The ecological significance of the density of both native and invasive tree species was assessed using a systematic review and formal meta-analysis. The densities of recipient communities and invasive exotic tree species in novel ranges were identified in the published literature. In addition, we compared by means of a meta-analysis: (i) densities of invasive versus native species in invaded communities; (ii) densities of native species in invaded versus uninvaded communities; and (iii) densities of invasive species along distance gradients from initial locus of invasion. Invasive trees were found at higher densities than native species in recipient communities. Invasions by woody species were also recorded in communities with relatively low densities of natives suggesting that (i) low density forests may be more susceptible to invasion and/or (ii) density of the recipient community may be reduced during the invasion process. In addition, comparison of native species densities between invaded and uninvaded stands from the same community suggests that invasive trees negatively affect density of native trees once established. Therefore, the widely reported low density and often richness of native plants in invaded communities cannot be directly linked to ecosystem susceptibility to invasion without considering concomitant impacts. These findings suggest that density is a key preliminary determinant or factor which should be considered when assessing tree invasion dynamics.
24113544|Natural habitat edges are known to influence the vegetation structure, the microclimate and thereby the invertebrate assemblages. We studied the spiders of two forest edges in the forest-steppe zone of the Great Hungarian Plain (Site 1 : a dense juniper shrub  open grassland and Site 2: a juniper and poplar forest  open grassland edge, respectively). The spider assemblages were sampled with pitfall traps arranged in 5  20 grid at the habitat edges. Observed and estimated species richness was higher for the grasslands than for the forests. Rnyi's diversity ordering was applied to compare species diversity. The results showed that the grasslands were more diverse in terms of spider species than the forests. The composition of spider assemblages was significantly different between the two habitat types. At Site 2, a higher number forest specialists penetrated into the grassland. Presumably this was due to the shading effect of the nearby poplar trees. Constrained ordinations also revealed a strong influence of the neighbouring poplar trees and vegetation structure on the spider assemblages. No exclusively edge associated species were found on either of the two sharp forest edges.
90002427|Indexing and mapping of co-occurrence for multiple species is central to many analyses of conservation needs, ecosystem health, and community composition. Species richness is often used because of its simplicity and interpretability, but a variety of ecologically based weighting schemes for species have been developed for special purposes such as determining biotic integrity. This work is concerned with indexing a balance between common and uncommon species for preliminary assessments of conservation needs. A
90002552|Spatially synoptic multivariate image data implicitly embody information on landscape pattern, for which analytical techniques of explicit pattern extraction are evolving. In parallel, a multiplicity of environmental indicators is being generated in the arena of geographic information systems. Landscape ecological analysis offers substantial opportunity for configuring these indicators synoptically as cells over spatial extents and for stacking them into complementary sets of
24113710|Disturbance related vegetation dynamics differs with Azorean mountain forest communities, where each tree species has its own regeneration strategy. Knowledge of the spatial distribution of tree species may help us to generate hypotheses on the relation between disturbance, regeneration and spatial organization and on the possible underlying ecological mechanisms. In view of this, we asked the following questions regarding the spatial pattern of tree species: What is the spatial distribution of saplings and adults? Are there any spatial associations or exclusions between saplings and adults of the same and different species? To what extent do the disturbance regimes and regeneration strategies of each species explain its spatial pattern? Six 225 m 2 (15  15 m) plots were placed in each of three different forest types in three Islands (Pico, Terceira and Flores). Patterns of tree individuals were analysed through Morisita's index of dispersion (I  ) and Iwao  index. With the exception of Laurus azorica and Frangula azorica, saplings are in most cases aggregated. Erica azorica is the only species whose adults are aggregated at short distances. Spatial distribution is mostly random for the other species. At short distances, few strong associations or exclusions were detected. Pioneer species such as Juniperus brevifolia tend to be more aggregated due to their dependence on gaps to germinate and recruit new individuals. In fact, increasing disturbance and gap size enhances the regeneration of J. brevifolia. Primary species tend to be randomly distributed in part due to their strategy of forming seedling-sapling banks. Spatial pattern of tree species is largely explained by disturbance regimes and regeneration strategies of each species. However, factors such as habitat related patchiness, competition and dispersion limitation may also explain many of the observed patterns.
90004012|Testing the ecological communities of different areas for convergence, in the sense of remarkable similarity in the characteristics of the species present, has a long history in biology. Recently, numerical methods have been developed for comparing community-level convergence to an explicit null model.
90004009|In recent years, many authors have attempted to determine whether local processes (such as competitive exclusion) result in local species richness below that of a local community assembled only by dispersal from a larger regional species pool. To do this they hypothesize that no local processes are significant and that local communities are assembled by dispersal only (Dispersal Assembly Hypothesis or DAH). Some authors have presumed that a prediction of this hypothesis is that, if many regions of similar ecological type (e.g., grassland, temperate deciduous forest, etc.) are compared then local richness will be the same fixed proportion of regional richness, across all regions. To compare this putative prediction with observed data, they plot local richness on the vertical axis vs. regional richness on the horizontal axis and discover how well a straight line fits: if it fits well then they accept the hypothesis and they take the slope as an estimate of the fixed proportion; if it fits poorly (usually by curving down for larger regional pools), then they reject the hypothesis and they presume that local processes are significant. In the present paper, I hypothesize DAH, and for each of two different species relative abundance distributions and predict, by simulation, the probability distribution of species richness in a local community, for a full spectrum of local community sample sizes. The plot of the expected values of these predicted distributions vs. regional richness (for a constant local sample size) and vs. increasing local sample size (for constant regional richness) is not a straight line in either case, but always curves downward. Thus, a straight line (proportional sampling) is never a prediction of DAH, so that looking for straight lines in data plots is irrelevant to testing DAH. Finally, I describe how to compare these predictions to observed data to test whether local processes significantly limit local species richness.
24113670|Different components of biodiversity may vary differently since species diversity was considered to be determined by resource availability but functional diversity was related to partitioning of niche space. Moreover, the harsh or benign conditions may result in different niche space partitioning by the coexisting species. For example, in harsh environments niche differentiation may be stronger resulting in higher functional diversity. In this study, we investigate species diversity and functional diversity along a south- to north-facing slope gradient with different resource availability in a sub-alpine meadow. Our results indicate that the patterns of species diversity and functional diversity are not consistent along this gradient. Both species richness and Shannon index of diversity increased, but functional diversity slightly decreased or changed a little from south- to north-facing slope. Moreover, these two components formed a quadratic relationship. Soil water content (SWC) was the limiting resource along this gradient. On one hand, it determined the species diversity; on the other hand, it also influenced functional diversity via affecting niche differentiation and species trait pool. In conclusion, functional diversity was determined by both species richness and niche differentiation with the influence of soil water content.
90002416|The River Paran is the second largest river of South America and its flood plain is covered by different kinds of forests and herbaceous vegetation. It is subject to an annual pulse of flooding; floods larger than the normal annual ones at irregular periods of few year and catastrophic extraordinary floods few times in a century. The last catastrophic flood was in 1983, followed by a short lived high flood in 1992. The catastrophic flood destroyed almost completely the herbaceous vegetation. Our hypotheses are, on the one hand, that the plant communities of this area will be restored rapidly, and on the other, that there will be a succession process which will produce a shift of communities so that, those on the higher part of the elevation gradient will encroach the ones at its lower part. We analyse, by means of the floristic composition, the effect of disturbance induced by catastrophic floods on the vegetation stability and dynamic processes, in an internal depression and pond of the riparian plant communities in an island of the River Paran valley. The results strongly support the first hypothesis.
90002428|We elaborated and tested a novel operative framework for sampling and analysing fine-scale pattern of plant composition and biomass. We combined presence/absence sampling of plant species with non-destructive biomass estimation. In an open perennial sand grassland, we used 46 m long circular transects consisting of 0.05 m by 0.05 m adjoining elementary sampling units. This arrangement allows us to scale across a range of 0.05 to 20 m. For measuring aboveground green biomass, we applied digital camera sensitive to red and near infrared parts of light spectrum, and we calculated normalised differential vegetation index (NDVI). We used information statistics proposed by Juhsz-Nagy to study the association between spatial patterns of production and species composition. Since information statistical functions applied require binary data, we transformed NDVI data into one or several binary variables. We found that not only dominant species but subordinate gap species were also associated to high biomass, although the strength of association varied across scales. Most of the significant associations were detected at fine scales, from 0.05 to 0.25 m. At the scales commensurable with quadrat sizes usually applied in grasslands, i.e., from 0.5 to 2.0 m, we could hardly find any significant associations between species composition and biomass. We concluded that the novel methods applied proved reliable for studying fine-scale relationships between species composition and biomass.
24113461|Wetlands are naturally patchy habitat types that in fragmented landscapes are usually immersed inside a sea of anthropogenic habitat matrix. Decrease in patch size area and increase of patch isolation are two important components of wetland fragmentation. We investigated the effects of fragment area on bird species richness at four-level assemblages in a highly fragmented Mediterranean wetland system of Central Italy. Our results indicate that fragment area influenced differently the species richness for distinct assemblages in wetland fragments. Area was significantly correlated to total species richness, vagrant, breeding and Phragmites-related breeding species (PBS). A comparison of the various regression equations showed that the log-log relationship was the best-fitted model and the amount of variation (R2 of log-log regression line) was much higher for PBS and breeders than for vagrants. This pattern confirmed that when including vagrants in studies based on the equilibrium theory of island biogeography, the 'insularity ofislands' is reduced. We also found that higher z-values (regression slope) were associated with PBS and breeding birds, supporting the idea of a 'matrix effect' on the studied species.
24113551|Abundance-occupancy relationships were determined for desert plants in the northwestern Red Sea region, at both the whole landscape, and individual habitat levels. Some 58 stands (having a total of 66 species) were studied, using ten quadrats (10  10m2) per stand. The relation was positive and highly significant at both scales, but stronger at habitat level than across the regional landscape. Niche-breadth was estimated as the number of habitats occupied regionally by a species, and was significantly related to both abundance and occupancy. Niche breadth explained just 10.1% of variation in abundance but some 56.2% of variation in occupancy. Using empirical data, we tested whether those abundance-occupancy relationships diverged significantly from a theoretical null model. Relationships diverged significantly from the null model at both regional landscape and habitat levels. Applications of abundance-occupancy relationships for plant conservation showed that 36% of the species in the study region is at risk of extinction.
24113362|The relative abundance and nature of associations between symbiotic species can be affected by abiotic conditions with consequences for population dynamics. We investigated the effects of temperature on the community of mites and fungi associated with the southern pine beetle, Dendroctonus frontalis, an important pest of pine forests in the southern United States. First, we determined whether the growth rates of mutualistic and antagonistic fungi associated with D. frontalis differed in their responses to temperature. Second, we tested the effects of temperature on the abundance of, and interactions among, fungi, mites and beetles within D. frontalis-infested trees. Fungi differed in their growth responses to temperature, resulting in changes in fungal-beetle associations. Mite species associated with D. frontalis also differed in their responses to temperature, resulting in different mite communities associated with bark beetle progeny. The effects of temperature on beetle reproduction could not be assessed because of high wood borer density, but inter-relations among surviving beetles, mites and fungi were altered by temperature. Results support the hypothesis that temperature can produce direct and indirect effects on the web of mutualistic and antagonistic relationships within the community of D. frontalis and their symbiotic mites and fungi.
90002365|With continuing proliferation of human influences on landscapes, there is mounting incentive to undertake quantification of relationships between spatial patterns of human populations and vegetation. In considering such quantification, it is apparent that investigations must be conducted at different scales and in a comparative manner across regions. At the broader scales it becomes necessary to utilize remote sensing of vegetation for comparative studies against map referenced census data. This paper explores such an approach for the urbanized area in the Tokyo vicinity. Vegetation is represented by the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) as determined from data acquired by the
90002613|In the analysis of multidimensional ecological data, it is often relevant to identify groups of variables since these groups may reflect similar ecological processes. The usual approach, the application of well-known clustering procedures using an appropriate similarity measure among the variables, may be criticized, but specific methods for clustering variables are neither investigated in detail nor used broadly. Here we introduce a new clustering method, the Hierarchical Factor Classification of variables, which is based on the evaluation of the least differences among representative variables of groups, as revealed by a two-dimensional Principal Components Analysis. As an additional feature, the method gives at each step a principal plane where both the grouped variables and the units, considered only according to these variables, can be projected. This method can be adapted to count data, so that it may be used for classifying both rows and columns of a contingency data table, by using the chi-square metric. In an example, we apply both methods to vegetation and soil data from the Campos in Southern Brazil.
90002429|In this paper, we examine the application of a particular approach to induction, the minimum message length principle and illustrate some of the problems that can be addressed through its use. The MML principle seeks to identify an optimal model within some specified parameterised class of models and for this paper we have chosen to concentrate on a single model class, that of mixture separation or fuzzy clustering. The first section presents, in outline, an MML methodology for fuzzy clustering. We then present some applications, including the nature of the within-cluster model, examination of the univocality of results for different groups of species and the effectiveness of presence data compared to purely quantitative data. Finally, we examine some possibilities of extending MML methodology to include within-class correlation of species, the existence of dependence between observed samples and the comparison of different classes of models.
90002565|Both local and regional factors determine local species richness. We investigated the relative role of local (13 soil and tree stand structure variables) and regional factors (19 climate, land cover and geographic location variables) in determining the richness of several vascular plant functional groups in indigenous forest fragments in southeastern New Zealand. The predictor variables explaining the largest fraction of the variation in species richness were identified using a backward and forward stepwise procedure, with adjustments for the number of variables and testing for multicollinearity. The total proportion of variation explained by local and regional factors was highest for tree species richness (54.1%) and lowest for herbaceous species richness (28.2%). We found differences between the functional groups in the extent to which species richness was explained by local vs. regional factors, but both showed some ability to explain the species richness of all functional groups. The abundance of the strongly competitive tree species
24113507|Modern agriculture is one of the main anthropogenic threats to biodiversity. To explore the effects of agricultural intensification we investigated carabids and spiders in two studies; in 2003 in grasslands and two years later in cereal fields in the same region. Both aimed to study the effect of management on arthropod diversity and composition at local and landscape scales. In 2003, we used a paired design for grasslands (extensively vs. intensively grazed). In 2005, a gradient design was applied with a total of seven land-use intensity categories. In both studies, sampling was carried out using funnel traps with the same sampling effort. Linear mixed models showed that high grazing intensity in grasslands had a positive effect on carabid species richness and abundance, but no effect on spiders. Landscape diversity had a positive effect only on carabid abundance. In the case of cereal fields, the management intensity (nitrogen fertiliser kg/ha) had a negative effect on spider richness and no effect on carabids. After variance partitioning, both local and landscape characteristics seem to be important for both cereal and grassland arthropod communities. Based on our results, we think that current and future agri-environmental schemes should be concentrated on cropland extensification. Low intensity croplands could act as a buffer zone around the semi-natural grasslands, at least in this biogeographic region.
24113365|Definitions of seed banks are discussed in the introductory part of the paper. In the second part, a literature review regarding sampling problems in soil seed bank ecology is presented. Regarding sampling depth, a rapid decline in soil seed content is demonstrated from example studies. The use of soil cores with 5 cm or 10 cm depth is suggested to ensure comparability of results. For determination of optimal sample volumes for various communities, the species saturation model is suggested such that "minimal volume" can be defined for soil seed banks in the same way that "minimal area" can be defined in phytosociological studies. Although sampling time may depend on research goals for vegetation types with a winter standstill period, late autumn sampling is suggested for detecting the entire soil seed bank, whilst late spring sampling is recommended for the examination of its persistent part. Studies looking at medium (plant community level) and fine scales (patch level) have demonstrated that soil seed bank distributions show horizontal aggregation for most of the cases and for most of the species. Seed dispersal processes which are among major factors responsible for such aggregated patterns are also discussed.
90002548|Quantifying and documenting succession has been a challenge to ecologists for many years. A variety of measures have been generated but do not seem to have been widely adopted. We propose the use of an intuitive and quantifiable measure that is amenable to both model building and hypothesis testing, and apply the method to a long-term, ongoing succession project in southeastern Ontario. We compare our measure with turnover rate (Diamond 1969) and lambda (Shugart and Hett 1973). We found that although these measures can determine when change within the community is occurring, the nature of this change and the resultant composition of the community is not readily gleaned from the measure. Our measure, by grouping plants as either early or late, allows the relative composition of the community to be understood with a single number. The benefit of using an aggregate measure such as ours, is that a variety of questions can be examined, such as when will a community revert to its original composition following fire? As an example, we utilized our measure on a post-fire succession data set from northern Montana. The results estimate that sites will take anywhere from 3 to 100 years to return to their pre-fire composition, based on current environmental conditions.
90002422|One possible explanation of variation in vegetation is based on the variable Poisson model. In this model, species occurrence is presumed to follow a Poisson distribution, but the value of the Poisson parameter for any species varies from point to point, as a result of environmental variation. As an extreme, this includes dividing the given habitat into areas favourable to a community and areas which are unfavourable, or at least not occupied. The spatial area can then be viewed as a series of patches within which each species follows a Poisson distribution, although different patchesmay have different values for the Poisson parameter for any particular species.
24113629|Seed dispersal is a limiting factor in the maintenance and distribution of plant communities, especially in rainforest ecosystems where a major proportion of plant species are dispersed by animals. Knowledge of seed removal by terrestrial mammals (particularly small mammals) in Araucaria forest patches scattered in Campos grassland is relatively sparse. In this study, we assessed: (1) whether the removal rate of Araucaria angustifolia seeds differs in different successional stages of Araucaria forest advancing over grassland, and (2) the importance of small mammals and others vertebrates for seed removal rates in each environment type. We used seed removal experiments and camera trapping to answer these questions. Our results showed that seed removal was higher in more-forested sites than in open ones and in control treatment in 2006, we found an interaction between successional stage and treatment in 2007 and, in 2008, only treatments differed significantly. Our photographic records were mostly of small cricetid rodents. Seed-removal increment as a function of forested area suggests increased use of these sites by terrestrial mammals as patches develop in grassland. The use of large patches by mammals may increase the probability of mammal-dispersed plants colonizing patches as they attain a given structural development, which might determine to some degree the future patch nucleation dynamics.
90002600|Allelopathic effects of
90002471|Several different stochastic models of niche apportionment have been proposed to explain the structure of species relative abundance patterns within communities. Here I deal with the converse issue, i.e., whether it is possible to infer past niche apportionment processes from current relative abundance patterns.
24113536|In two arid/semiarid regions, we studied diversity of algae in lakes and pools with salinity ranging from 0.1 up to 39. In plankton and periphyton of 34 lakes in northern Kazakhstan, we found 252 species belonging to 113 genera of 8 algal divisions. In 24 pools with experimental salinity ranges in the Negev desert of Israel, we recorded 86 species from 47 genera of 6 algal divisions. The dominant groups of both arid regions are represented by widespread species of diatoms, green algae, and cyanobacteria in similar proportions. Alkaliphiles among the indicators of acidification and betamesosaprobionts among the indicators of saprobity prominently prevail in both regions. The indices of saprobity in lakes (1.48-2.7) and in pools (0.75-2.18) reflect a low-trophic loading. Oligohalobes-indifferents are most common in both arid regions. Cluster analysis based on data containing 420 species revealed 9 clusters, of which the highly diverse communities of low mineralized lakes and pools and the low diversity communities of highly-mineralized lakes and pools are separated at the highest dissimilarity level. CCA analysis revealed correlation of the algal species diversity preferences with salinity level in lakes in Kazakhstan and in pools of Israel, which are more impacted by arid factors. These results point to mineralization being the most important variable defining the diversity levels irrespective of the type and location of reservoirs in the arid regions.
90002602|Understanding the relationship between the distribution of organisms and their environment is important for regional conservation planning. While most herpetofaunal community studies address environmental influence on species
90002562|A cell-grid method was used to survey seasonal changes in four herbaceous communities of a wooded pasture. Permanent plots consisted in 1-m
90004015|A study conducted to determine the ecological status of vegetation under a
24113351|The paper evaluates spatial autocorrelation structure in grassland vegetation at the community level. We address the following main issues: 1) How quadrat size affects the measurement of spatial autocorrelation for presence/absence and cover data? 2) What is the relationship between spatial autocorrelation and classification? 3) Is there a temporal change of spatial autocorrelation in the vegetation studied? We found that multivariate variogram shape, variance explained and the sill are different for presence/absence data and cover data, whereas quadrat size increases apparently introduce a stabilizing effect for both. Spatial stationarity is detected for species presence, and non-stationarity for cover. A new graphical tool, the clusterogram is introduced to examine spatial dependence of classification at various numbers of clusters. We found that spatial autocorrelation plays a crucial role in the classification of vegetation and therefore we suggest that its effect should not be removed from clustering. Mutual interpretation of variogram and clusterogram shape may be informative on the number of meaningful clusters present in the data. Spatial autocorrelation structure did not change markedly after 23 years for presence/absence data, indicating that the vegetation of the study area is stationary in time as well. The present study demonstrates that traditional quadrat data are suitable for evaluating spatial autocorrelation, even though field coordinates are recorded several years after sampling is completed.
24113635|Five distinct habitats along salinity gradient were explored for plant ecological attributes including soil plant interaction, vegetation composition and species distribution in the Cholistan desert. Higher saline sites supported Sporobolus ioclados with Aeluropus lagopoides, Cymbopogon jwarancusa, Ochthochloa compressa, Haloxylon recurvum and Suaeda fruticosa, whereas moderately saline habitats supported predominantly Fagonia indica, C. jwarancusa and O. compressa. The community structure and composition of each habitat type were very specific, the most dominant component being S. ioclados. Each species has very specific relation to different environmental variables, and this reflects the habitat status, ecological adaptations and stress tolerance degree of the individual species. On the whole, it can be concluded that salinity alone was not responsible for the distribution of species at salt affected habitats.
24113504|Agricultural management is a major driver of changes in floral and faunal species richness of anthropogenic landscapes. Counteracting the negative impact of industrialized agriculture by providing subsidies to farmers for environmentally friendly agricultural practices, agri-environmental schemes (AES) are the most important policy instruments to protect European biodiversity in agricultural landscapes. However, as they are rarely cost-effective, there is an urgent need for evaluation and improvement. To assess the environmental effects of the Austrian AES, we mapped landscapes and vascular plants in 1998 and 2003 and birds in 2003. The sampling areas were located in the three most important types of Austrian agricultural landscape, i.e., grassland in alpine valleys and basins, mixed agriculture in mountain areas, and eastern arable land. We investigated the agri-environmental measures (AEMs) in a parcel-wise manner and analyzed their effects on landscape values and biodiversity. Reduction of agrochemicals showed positive effects on biodiversity of vascular plants in grassland and birds in arable land. Targeted measures that directly address threatened species were most effective, but had much less coverage. Contradicting developments became apparent for landscape structure and ecological infrastructures, but effects of the AES were generally larger in simple than in complex landscapes. We conclude that AEMs are currently not targeted enough to effectively halt biodiversity losses, and recommend better regionalization by offering landscape-context specific measures, stronger focus on maintenance and improvement of landscape diversity, avoidance of counterproductive development, and improvement of the coverage of specific conservation measures.
90002583|We examined the environmental factors associated with community structure in the inquiline communities of the purple pitcher plant (
24113673|Ecological theory predicts that the species composition of island habitats is, among others, shaped by the mass effect of nearby ill-adapted populations, but this has rarely been tested. We investigated small calcareous spring fens scattered within species-rich grasslands in a region in which particular locations differ in climatic and edaphic conditions. Fens in colder, moister and less calcareous north-eastern (NE) locations harboured more plant species from surrounding grasslands and displayed higher similarity with the surroundings than the fens in warmer, drier and more calcareous south-western (SW) locations. Fen species richness correlated significantly with surrounding species richness in the NE locations, whereas no correlation was found for the SW locations. Fens in SW locations are characterized by both intense tufa formation, which creates extreme ecological conditions, and the contrasting environmental conditions compared to surrounding grasslands. We demonstrated that the mass effect does not always significantly shape the species composition of island habitats and that the landscape species pool may not influence extreme habitats. This finding accords with the Intermediate difference hypothesis, which predicts a unimodal relationship between the strength of the spatial mass effect and the ecological similarity between neighbouring plots, and could be utilized in the selection of model habitats for exploring large-scale ecological phenomena without the possibly confounding spatial mass effects.
24113645|Biome interfaces are expected to exhibit chorological symmetry, i.e., decreasing trends in the number of species associated with each of the two neighbouring biomes as we progress from one into the other. Our aim was to test for such a pattern within the forest steppe biome, which is a transition zone in itself between the temperate deciduous forests and the steppe biome. Presence of chorological symmetry would provide indirect evidence for the prehuman presence of zonal steppes in the Carpathian basin. We also whished to provide an example with this analysis for drawing biogeographical conclusions based on quantitative species occurrence data, an information source hitherto neglected in Central Europe. Occurrence patterns of forest and steppe species were analysed at the Duna-Tisza kze (Danube-Tisza Interfluve) by the traditional qualitative biogeographic method and by hierarchical classification of predicted spatial pattern based on Generalized Linear Models with logistic link function. Species presences were explained by variables describing spatial orientation. In this approach, an outgroup of sand grassland species was also added to characetrise the discrimination ability of the approach. The quantitative method discriminated the outgroup of sand grassland species, providing evidence of its suitability for our purpose. The results of the quantitative investigations were also in accordance with the qualitative evaluation. Surprisingly, forest and steppe species showed similar distributional patterns, i.e., no chorological symmetry was discernable. The quantitative biogeographic approach unveiled important evidence for deciding about the potential presence of zonal steppes in the Carpathian basin. Although the observed similarity of the distribution of forest and steppe species may have multiple reasons, the major cause of the lack of chorological symmetry is most probably the lack of zonal steppe South of the forest steppe biome in the Carpathian basin. Additional explanations include land use pattern and the mountain belt around the basin acting as a refugium in the ice ages.
90002585|A mosaic of Campos grassland and
90002354|Vegetation dynamics is a stochastic process of species replacement after disturbance. It occurs because individual species are limited by general constraints and trade-offs. As these constraints and trade-offs are becoming better known, we understand more about the relationships between disturbance dynamics, species pools, and vegetation dynamics. This paper provides a summary of recent work on plant scaling and ecological trade-offs, and explores its implications for vegetation dynamics. Those aspects of succession that are predictable  given the local species complement  can be understood as consequences of these general patterns and constraints. Several are explored in this paper. The inherently stochastic nature of the process derives from the disturbance dynamics that forces it, from the sampling processes that are responsible for selecting potential invaders, and from the chance processes involved in species interactions. The dynamics of species that invade established communities is the least understood but potentially the most crucial aspect of vegetation dynamics. The relation of community invasion to gap creation and to scaling constraints is briefly discussed.
90002498|The relationship between productivity and species diversity was investigated at the quadrat level for three old-field plant communities that varied in time since the last major disturbance from cultivation. A positive relationship between productivity (estimated by above-ground dry biomass) and the species richness component of diversity was detected only for quadrats from the most recently disturbed community. The communities that experienced longer post-disturbance time showed no significant relationship between productivity and species richness. Quadrat productivity, however, was negatively related to the species evenness component of diversity in all three communities, i.e., regardless of time since disturbance. Furthermore, analyses of covariance using log biomass, species richness and species evenness as response variables, log soil nitrate concentration as a covariate and time since disturbance as a factor revealed that residual log biomass was significantly negatively correlated with residual species evenness, but was not significantly correlated with residual species richness. These results support the view that the productivity of plots within natural vegetation is related more predictably to the relative composition of species (reflected by evenness) than to the number of species present, especially as succession progresses.
90002614|We propose a method that has general relevance to the digital representation of spatial variation of multivariate landscape data. It is based on the average similarity that operational geographic units (OGU) have with the adjacent ones according to characters relevant understanding landscape patterns and dynamics. The method is flexible and easily executable within the technological framework of geographic information systems (GIS) that today is available even free of charge or at very low cost. An example shows how the method, applied to spatial data of a floristic project for the urban area of Trieste (NE-Italy), can identify floristically homogeneous patches and can quantify the heterogeneity of the transition zones between such patches.
90002470|In this paper we examine the impact of runnelling on the vegetation of a salt marsh. Runnelling is a form of habitat modification used for mosquito control in Australia. Defining the states of the system through unsupervised clustering of vegetation records using the minimum message length principle, 11 states (or classes) were identified. The runnelled sites have a greater diversity of states present than the unrunnelled ones. The states at each time for each site were then used to develop transition matrices. From these, two different pathways were identified, indicating the patterns of change. The method of showing changes relied on pictures that represent average species size and density. Both the two main pathways of change started with the dominant grass (
24113602|Breeding bird communities were studied by line-transect in burnt pinewood and unburnt pinewoods, during three years subsequently to a fire event, in a coastal woodland of Mediterranean central Italy. We analyzed data following a diversity/dominance approach that ranks the species in order of their abundance, to obtain rank/abundance diagrams ('Whittaker plots'). Although it is generally accepted that fire may induce structural changes in forest communities of breeding birds, we observed more evident effects when considering the assemblage of forest-specialist species. When considering the whole community of birds, ordinate intercepts of the regression between rank and relative abundance of species were not significantly different between unburnt and burnt plots in any of the three years of study. However, when considering only the forest-related species, there was a significant difference between unburnt and burnt plots in all the years of study. Evenness showed lower values that were explicited by the diversity/dominance diagrams (lower collocation of the curves of burnt pinewoods if compared to unburnt ones). Overall, the patterns observed in this study suggest that the effects of fire disturbance were more evident at the ecological level than at the taxonomic-level assemblages. The gradual decline of the more sensitive species due to fires and the proportional increase of edge/generalist species may induce a species turnover in burnt woods with cascade and relaxation effects which could be evidenced by diversity/dominance diagrams. Consequently, it is useful to separate the effects of fires at community-level and at assemblage-level when studying bird communities in areas subjected to fires.
90002587|The relationship between plant communities and elevation in the Guandi mountainous area was studied. Data from 89 sampling units, each of 10 m x 20 m size, taken along an elevation gradient were analyzed by TWINSPAN, DECORANA and diversity and evenness indices. The samples were clustered into 23 groups by TWINSPAN, representing 23 vegetation types. The composition and distribution of communities varied greatly along the altitude gradient, suggesting that community diversity is closely related to elevation in the Guandi Mountains. This is due to the change of temperature and water-conditions along the elevation gradient. Species heterogeneity and evenness were significantly correlated with elevation along the entire gradient, but showing first a trend of increases and then decreases, corresponding to the hypothesis of maximum diversity at medium elevation. Species richness varied greatly in the study area, and was not significantly correlated with elevation.
24113598|A considerable amount of research has been conducted on the influence of landform features on the distribution of vegetation on floodplains of major rivers. Considerably less work has examined this relationship along smaller channels in mountainous terrain. We utilized multivariate statistical techniques to examine the relationship between landform types and riparian plant floristics along small streams at the Cedar River Municipal Watershed in western Washington, USA. Riparian geomorphic surfaces were assigned to one of four landform classes based on topographic characteristics and position relative to the stream channel: low floodplain, high floodplain, terrace and hillslope. Landform exerted a strong influence on the distribution of tree, shrub and understory plant species. Certain taxa were found only on one or two of the landforms. Other species displayed a gradient in abundance across landforms. No single species occupied all landforms at the same level of abundance. The distribution patterns of species among the landforms suggested that primary drivers in the organization of the plant communities were moisture and susceptibility to disturbance. Plants preferring high moisture levels and resistant to the effects of fluvial disturbance typically were found on the floodplain landforms. Communities with hardwood-dominated overstories and dense shrub understories were prevalent on these sites. Slopes and terraces supported species able to cope with drier conditions and those unable to persist with frequent disturbance. Conifers were prevalent only on these drier, infrequently-disturbed landforms. These results indicate that restoration measures to increase the presence of conifer trees in riparian areas, a common activity in the Pacific Northwest, should be applied only on landforms that would naturally support these species.
90002553|The paper deals with two bee species collecting nectar from two plant species. It is assumed that the nectar stock is reduced but not exhausted by the nectar collection, each individual's pay-off depends linearly on its own foraging strategy (i.e., on the probability of a visit to a plant species) and on the average strategies of both species. For the corresponding matrix game model, it is shown that evolutionary stability of a totally mixed equilibrium foraging strategy pair is only determined by the efficiency parameters of nectar collection. The latter parameters depend on morphological characteristics of all involved species, determined by the long-term evolutionary processes. The evolutionary stable foraging strategy is locally asymptotically stable with respect to the corresponding replicator dynamics.
24113633|This paper demonstrates a possible application of large historical vegetation data sets as reference to reveal natural trends. Phytosociological relevs re-sampled after 3-6 decades were used to detect and interpret long-term plant compositional changes of seven rock grassland communities in Hungary. Altogether 151 re-established plots were subject of the study. Data analyses were designed to minimize the negative effects arising from the application of historical information. Principal coordinates analysis was used to discover general compositional changes. With the help of ecological indicator values and species attributes, vegetation state trends were evaluated. Principal coordinates analysis reveals a uniform displacement of plot averages in the ordination space. Ecological indicator values for nitrogen requirement of vascular plants show a significant increase in mesotrophic categories. Occurrences of species typical of rock grasslands decreased significantly. Natural pioneers, disturbance-tolerant and weed species increased in number. Nevertheless, their amount is relatively low and the natural constituents of the communities still dominate, which is a sign of only a minor disturbance. Considering the wide geographical distribution of the sample plots, general changes seem to indicate pressures operating at large scales. These include elevated nitrogen deposition, increased rates of erosion and trampling caused by overpopulated ungulates and more frequent summer drought events. Acidification only occurs in silicate grasslands as calcareous soil types have higher buffering capacities. The global tendency of biotic homogenisation with the increase of common species was also detected over time. The study showed that the use of historical vegetation data enables us to estimate long-term trends in vegetation state.
24113600|Scepticism largely deflated, and the denial machine's intent to mislead unmasked, climate warming owing to anthropic carbon emission is now seen by most as an ongoing process. When compared to the historic rates, the predicted warming rate and concomitant rates of biotic response should be considered simply colossal. This is the point about which the present paper gives insight based on numerical analyses. The Vostok temperature series, its different transforms, and palynological spectra from global sites are the basic data. These are marshalled in support of the paper's main proposition that the thermal effect on the vegetation depends not only on the rate of troposphere warming or cooling, but very much on the velocity of onset and length of duration. The main text begins with a definition of terms, followed by a short essay tracing how the conceptualisation of the climate warming paradigm evolved from initial scepticism to acceptance as a reality. The technical sections treat the conversion problem from Vostok inversion-layer temperature differences to global mean rates. It offers frequency distributions for historic warming/cooling rates, and explains the latitude dependence of the translation of the rates into local thermal flux. Presentation of examples of historic thermal events and the effect on the global vegetation close the main text. Statistical analyses are involved based on a novel methodology. The methods are concerned with formation migration rates, metrics of compositional transition velocity and acceleration, long-term variation in the representation of specific taxa in palynological spectra, taxon traits and taxon plasticity, and hotspots detection in compositional transitions. The palynological data are examined in synchrony with historic trends in the troposphere's Late Quaternary temperature history. Owing to the broad topical contents, the paper adapts a modular structure of presentation which requires the evaluation and interpretation of the results where they are presented. An overview is given at the end with emphasis on the general trends.
90002584|We investigated how cluster analysis and diversity-ordering can be used for the classification of geographically and historically distinct plant and insect communities. The study sites include fens and
24113358|Disturbance is considered one of the main factors influencing plant species composition and diversity. We conducted a field study to address the plant community response in a coastal marsh to a major disturbance. In 1992, muskrats (Ondatra zibethicus L.) completely removed vegetation within a 450 ha area of intermediate coastal marsh in Texas, USA. We used vegetation data collected prior to the disturbance (1989-1991) as a baseline for comparison to that recorded annually for a decade ( 1992-2002) following the disturbance. We compared species diversity, richness, relative abundance, evenness, and species similarity between pre and postdisturbance periods to evaluate the temporal response of the disturbed plant community. Plant diversity in the study area returned to predisturbance levels after 10 years. Species diversity in the study area had two peaks following the main disturbance. These peaks are associated with fluctuations of the water levels in the area. Our results suggest that it is possible to control the sedge or grass dominance in a community by subjecting the area to a carefully timed willful disturbance (e.g., grazing or fluctuating water levels) to achieve management goals. However, vegetation composition in the area changed from a grass-dominated (predisturbance) to sedge-dominated (postdisturbance) community. At the conclusion of sampling in 2002, plant species abundance, evenness, dominance, and richness conditions reached levels similar to predisturbance. However, the species composition after a decade postdisturbance differed from that during the predisturbance period. Therefore, even though we are able to predict the return of species diversity, evenness, and richness of a community after a period following disturbance, the actual species composition of an intermediate marsh following recovery is difficult to determine accurately, as it is contingent on several biotic and abiotic conditions that prevail while the system recovers from disturbance.
24113527|The relationship between some soil physical-chemical characteristics, with more focus on the types of salt-specific anions and the colonisation parameters of the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) were examined on the most dominant halophytes, grown at four saline soils in Hungary. At site Z (Zm) mainly the chloride, at site Ny (Nyrlapos) mainly the sulphate ions dominated in the soil samples, while at site A (Apajpuszta) and site Zsz (Zabszk) the carbonate anions were the most frequent. A large colonisation variability of the AM fungi were found in the four saline sites and the studied halophytes. Among the affecting soil-plant factors a strong host dependency was recorded with almost no mycorrhiza colonisation on Puccinellia limosa and the highest values at the Plantago maritima and Aster tripolium. As a function of the salt-levels a relative location of the halophytes could be found at each sites. The AMF colonisation intensity (M%) and functioning, measured as arbusculum richness (A%) was reduced with the overall increasing salinity, more particularly with the total cation-content of the soils. The deleterious effect of some other abiotic factors, i.e., the very poor or rich nutrient availability and the humus accumulation tended to be also negatively correlated by the mycorrhizal parameters.
90002611|Competing species often coexist, but the mechanisms allowing long-term coexistence are rarely tested via direct experimental manipulation. We experimentally tested the mechanisms of coexistence in a classic model system, laboratory microcosms in which two species of ciliate protists competed for bacteria. Previous work shows that the species used here compete for bacteria, but can coexist despite large differences in grazing ability. We tested three hypotheses that might explain this surprising coexistence: resource partitioning, chemically-mediated interference competition, and differential use of space. To test for resource partitioning, we conducted an experiment testing the effects of bacterial species richness and composition on the long-term outcome of competition. Manipulating bacterial diversity and composition alters the scope for resource partitioning. Despite strong evidence for differential resource use (e.g., the two ciliates shifted bacterial species composition in different ways), initial bacterial richness and composition did not affect the long-term outcome of competition. Remarkably, the competitive outcome was unchanged even when ciliates competed for a single bacterial species, indicating that the observed resource partitioning is irrelevant to the competitive outcome. In further experiments, we ruled out differential space use and chemically-mediated interference competition as explanations for this surprising coexistence. Coexistence of ciliates on a single bacterial species might reflect partitioning of intraspecific bacterial diversity, and/or osmotrophy or consumption of particulate detritus by the weaker competitor. The results show that this classic model system is not as well-understood as had been previously thought. More broadly, the results dramatically illustrate that merely observing niche differences between coexisting species is no evidence that those differences are either necessary or sufficient for long-term coexistence.
90002426|A geographical region, containing an unknown number of species, is partitioned into
90002555|It is examined whether caddisfly assemblages collected by light trapping are influenced by altitude. From twenty-nine sites, a total of 29 seasons catches were obtained in 1995. The total number of caddisfly species collected was 53, and the number of individuals caught was 11,128. As a result of non-metric multidimensional scaling based on quantitative data, two groups of caddisfly assemblages could be distinguished: those collected in lowland (sites under 150 m a.s.l.) and the others from highland habitats (sites above 150 m a.s.l.). The indicator value method found assemblages and species most characteristic of the two kinds of habitats.
90002564|A method is presented and discussed that minimises uncertainties in change analysis of sequential vegetation maps due tot subjectivity in boundary interpretation. This previous boundary method is based upon the concept of map changes, which implies that sequential maps are not made independently but are based upon a previous map: only changes in the old maps boundaries (both in space and vegetation typology) are interpreted. It was shown that themap changes concept increased the reliability of change analysis results in a coastal salt marsh in the Netherlands. The method may be applied easily in other studies in which photo-interpretation is used for monitoring purposes. The method is especially recommended in low dynamic areas, where slow changes in vegetation patterns take place and the effects of photo-interpretation uncertainty are relatively high.
24113523|Grassland ecosystems in the Carpathian Basin may be particularly vulnerable to current and predicted changes in precipitation, and ecosystem responses to potential effects of water are not well understood. To examine how water addition can affect the species composition and structure, and CO2-flux of a Central European natural steppe plant community, grassland monoliths were irrigated for three consecutive years at Gdll, from 2002 through 2004. The loess grassland studied by ex situ is a characteristic plant association of Hungary and similar vegetation can be found in other temperate regions. The treatment consisted of spray irrigation during night-time only in the growing season as well as aboveground biomass removal twice per year. Interannual and intraannual dynamics of species richness, Shannon Diversity, percentage cover, and different functional groups (monocots/dicots; plant life forms; social behaviour types; C4/C3 plants), and Net Ecosystem CO2 Exchange in treated and untreated permanent plots, were studied simultaneously. To measure NEE and water vapour at stand level a self-developed, portable, non-destructive open chamber system (d=60cm) was used. The majority of the examined parameters varied considerably among years at both irrigated and control, but concerning carbon fluxes water addition effects were evident in dry periods only. At the treated plots, in general species richness, Shannon Diversity, the number of plant life forms and social behaviour types, the ratio of dicots and C4 plants declined with addition of water. Our study proved that decline in species richness and Shannon diversity is not necessarily followed by the reduction of stand physiological (synphysiological) processes.
90002468|When working with raw data for multiple environmental indicators, it can be difficult to assess quality or health because of the large number of indicators and inconsistencies among the indicators. By grouping the raw data into rankings, the data become more manageable and more comprehensible. We do not, however, want to lose information as a result of the groupings. It is possible to assess the quality of grouping options graphically by seeing if the resulting assessments of health are concordant with the raw data. This can be done through the use of CDF-index values, cumulative distribution function plots, parallel coordinates plots, and scatterplots. A major purpose of this paper is to present approaches and the graphics for comparison and prioritization based on quintiles used, in this case, for ecological assessment of a large region.
24113669|Species richness, resource availability, and disturbance are the primary factors considered in assessing the invasibility of plant communities. Nonetheless, the density of individuals in a community is a common and easy trait to measure. The ecological significance of the density of both native and invasive tree species was assessed using a systematic review and formal meta-analysis. The densities of recipient communities and invasive exotic tree species in novel ranges were identified in the published literature. In addition, we compared by means of a meta-analysis: (i) densities of invasive versus native species in invaded communities; (ii) densities of native species in invaded versus uninvaded communities; and (iii) densities of invasive species along distance gradients from initial locus of invasion. Invasive trees were found at higher densities than native species in recipient communities. Invasions by woody species were also recorded in communities with relatively low densities of natives suggesting that (i) low density forests may be more susceptible to invasion and/or (ii) density of the recipient community may be reduced during the invasion process. In addition, comparison of native species densities between invaded and uninvaded stands from the same community suggests that invasive trees negatively affect density of native trees once established. Therefore, the widely reported low density and often richness of native plants in invaded communities cannot be directly linked to ecosystem susceptibility to invasion without considering concomitant impacts. These findings suggest that density is a key preliminary determinant or factor which should be considered when assessing tree invasion dynamics.
24113544|Natural habitat edges are known to influence the vegetation structure, the microclimate and thereby the invertebrate assemblages. We studied the spiders of two forest edges in the forest-steppe zone of the Great Hungarian Plain (Site 1 : a dense juniper shrub  open grassland and Site 2: a juniper and poplar forest  open grassland edge, respectively). The spider assemblages were sampled with pitfall traps arranged in 5  20 grid at the habitat edges. Observed and estimated species richness was higher for the grasslands than for the forests. Rnyi's diversity ordering was applied to compare species diversity. The results showed that the grasslands were more diverse in terms of spider species than the forests. The composition of spider assemblages was significantly different between the two habitat types. At Site 2, a higher number forest specialists penetrated into the grassland. Presumably this was due to the shading effect of the nearby poplar trees. Constrained ordinations also revealed a strong influence of the neighbouring poplar trees and vegetation structure on the spider assemblages. No exclusively edge associated species were found on either of the two sharp forest edges.
90002427|Indexing and mapping of co-occurrence for multiple species is central to many analyses of conservation needs, ecosystem health, and community composition. Species richness is often used because of its simplicity and interpretability, but a variety of ecologically based weighting schemes for species have been developed for special purposes such as determining biotic integrity. This work is concerned with indexing a balance between common and uncommon species for preliminary assessments of conservation needs. A
90002552|Spatially synoptic multivariate image data implicitly embody information on landscape pattern, for which analytical techniques of explicit pattern extraction are evolving. In parallel, a multiplicity of environmental indicators is being generated in the arena of geographic information systems. Landscape ecological analysis offers substantial opportunity for configuring these indicators synoptically as cells over spatial extents and for stacking them into complementary sets of
24113710|Disturbance related vegetation dynamics differs with Azorean mountain forest communities, where each tree species has its own regeneration strategy. Knowledge of the spatial distribution of tree species may help us to generate hypotheses on the relation between disturbance, regeneration and spatial organization and on the possible underlying ecological mechanisms. In view of this, we asked the following questions regarding the spatial pattern of tree species: What is the spatial distribution of saplings and adults? Are there any spatial associations or exclusions between saplings and adults of the same and different species? To what extent do the disturbance regimes and regeneration strategies of each species explain its spatial pattern? Six 225 m 2 (15  15 m) plots were placed in each of three different forest types in three Islands (Pico, Terceira and Flores). Patterns of tree individuals were analysed through Morisita's index of dispersion (I  ) and Iwao  index. With the exception of Laurus azorica and Frangula azorica, saplings are in most cases aggregated. Erica azorica is the only species whose adults are aggregated at short distances. Spatial distribution is mostly random for the other species. At short distances, few strong associations or exclusions were detected. Pioneer species such as Juniperus brevifolia tend to be more aggregated due to their dependence on gaps to germinate and recruit new individuals. In fact, increasing disturbance and gap size enhances the regeneration of J. brevifolia. Primary species tend to be randomly distributed in part due to their strategy of forming seedling-sapling banks. Spatial pattern of tree species is largely explained by disturbance regimes and regeneration strategies of each species. However, factors such as habitat related patchiness, competition and dispersion limitation may also explain many of the observed patterns.
90004012|Testing the ecological communities of different areas for convergence, in the sense of remarkable similarity in the characteristics of the species present, has a long history in biology. Recently, numerical methods have been developed for comparing community-level convergence to an explicit null model.
90004009|In recent years, many authors have attempted to determine whether local processes (such as competitive exclusion) result in local species richness below that of a local community assembled only by dispersal from a larger regional species pool. To do this they hypothesize that no local processes are significant and that local communities are assembled by dispersal only (Dispersal Assembly Hypothesis or DAH). Some authors have presumed that a prediction of this hypothesis is that, if many regions of similar ecological type (e.g., grassland, temperate deciduous forest, etc.) are compared then local richness will be the same fixed proportion of regional richness, across all regions. To compare this putative prediction with observed data, they plot local richness on the vertical axis vs. regional richness on the horizontal axis and discover how well a straight line fits: if it fits well then they accept the hypothesis and they take the slope as an estimate of the fixed proportion; if it fits poorly (usually by curving down for larger regional pools), then they reject the hypothesis and they presume that local processes are significant. In the present paper, I hypothesize DAH, and for each of two different species relative abundance distributions and predict, by simulation, the probability distribution of species richness in a local community, for a full spectrum of local community sample sizes. The plot of the expected values of these predicted distributions vs. regional richness (for a constant local sample size) and vs. increasing local sample size (for constant regional richness) is not a straight line in either case, but always curves downward. Thus, a straight line (proportional sampling) is never a prediction of DAH, so that looking for straight lines in data plots is irrelevant to testing DAH. Finally, I describe how to compare these predictions to observed data to test whether local processes significantly limit local species richness.
24113670|Different components of biodiversity may vary differently since species diversity was considered to be determined by resource availability but functional diversity was related to partitioning of niche space. Moreover, the harsh or benign conditions may result in different niche space partitioning by the coexisting species. For example, in harsh environments niche differentiation may be stronger resulting in higher functional diversity. In this study, we investigate species diversity and functional diversity along a south- to north-facing slope gradient with different resource availability in a sub-alpine meadow. Our results indicate that the patterns of species diversity and functional diversity are not consistent along this gradient. Both species richness and Shannon index of diversity increased, but functional diversity slightly decreased or changed a little from south- to north-facing slope. Moreover, these two components formed a quadratic relationship. Soil water content (SWC) was the limiting resource along this gradient. On one hand, it determined the species diversity; on the other hand, it also influenced functional diversity via affecting niche differentiation and species trait pool. In conclusion, functional diversity was determined by both species richness and niche differentiation with the influence of soil water content.
90002416|The River Paran is the second largest river of South America and its flood plain is covered by different kinds of forests and herbaceous vegetation. It is subject to an annual pulse of flooding; floods larger than the normal annual ones at irregular periods of few year and catastrophic extraordinary floods few times in a century. The last catastrophic flood was in 1983, followed by a short lived high flood in 1992. The catastrophic flood destroyed almost completely the herbaceous vegetation. Our hypotheses are, on the one hand, that the plant communities of this area will be restored rapidly, and on the other, that there will be a succession process which will produce a shift of communities so that, those on the higher part of the elevation gradient will encroach the ones at its lower part. We analyse, by means of the floristic composition, the effect of disturbance induced by catastrophic floods on the vegetation stability and dynamic processes, in an internal depression and pond of the riparian plant communities in an island of the River Paran valley. The results strongly support the first hypothesis.
90002428|We elaborated and tested a novel operative framework for sampling and analysing fine-scale pattern of plant composition and biomass. We combined presence/absence sampling of plant species with non-destructive biomass estimation. In an open perennial sand grassland, we used 46 m long circular transects consisting of 0.05 m by 0.05 m adjoining elementary sampling units. This arrangement allows us to scale across a range of 0.05 to 20 m. For measuring aboveground green biomass, we applied digital camera sensitive to red and near infrared parts of light spectrum, and we calculated normalised differential vegetation index (NDVI). We used information statistics proposed by Juhsz-Nagy to study the association between spatial patterns of production and species composition. Since information statistical functions applied require binary data, we transformed NDVI data into one or several binary variables. We found that not only dominant species but subordinate gap species were also associated to high biomass, although the strength of association varied across scales. Most of the significant associations were detected at fine scales, from 0.05 to 0.25 m. At the scales commensurable with quadrat sizes usually applied in grasslands, i.e., from 0.5 to 2.0 m, we could hardly find any significant associations between species composition and biomass. We concluded that the novel methods applied proved reliable for studying fine-scale relationships between species composition and biomass.
24113461|Wetlands are naturally patchy habitat types that in fragmented landscapes are usually immersed inside a sea of anthropogenic habitat matrix. Decrease in patch size area and increase of patch isolation are two important components of wetland fragmentation. We investigated the effects of fragment area on bird species richness at four-level assemblages in a highly fragmented Mediterranean wetland system of Central Italy. Our results indicate that fragment area influenced differently the species richness for distinct assemblages in wetland fragments. Area was significantly correlated to total species richness, vagrant, breeding and Phragmites-related breeding species (PBS). A comparison of the various regression equations showed that the log-log relationship was the best-fitted model and the amount of variation (R2 of log-log regression line) was much higher for PBS and breeders than for vagrants. This pattern confirmed that when including vagrants in studies based on the equilibrium theory of island biogeography, the 'insularity ofislands' is reduced. We also found that higher z-values (regression slope) were associated with PBS and breeding birds, supporting the idea of a 'matrix effect' on the studied species.
24113551|Abundance-occupancy relationships were determined for desert plants in the northwestern Red Sea region, at both the whole landscape, and individual habitat levels. Some 58 stands (having a total of 66 species) were studied, using ten quadrats (10  10m2) per stand. The relation was positive and highly significant at both scales, but stronger at habitat level than across the regional landscape. Niche-breadth was estimated as the number of habitats occupied regionally by a species, and was significantly related to both abundance and occupancy. Niche breadth explained just 10.1% of variation in abundance but some 56.2% of variation in occupancy. Using empirical data, we tested whether those abundance-occupancy relationships diverged significantly from a theoretical null model. Relationships diverged significantly from the null model at both regional landscape and habitat levels. Applications of abundance-occupancy relationships for plant conservation showed that 36% of the species in the study region is at risk of extinction.
24113362|The relative abundance and nature of associations between symbiotic species can be affected by abiotic conditions with consequences for population dynamics. We investigated the effects of temperature on the community of mites and fungi associated with the southern pine beetle, Dendroctonus frontalis, an important pest of pine forests in the southern United States. First, we determined whether the growth rates of mutualistic and antagonistic fungi associated with D. frontalis differed in their responses to temperature. Second, we tested the effects of temperature on the abundance of, and interactions among, fungi, mites and beetles within D. frontalis-infested trees. Fungi differed in their growth responses to temperature, resulting in changes in fungal-beetle associations. Mite species associated with D. frontalis also differed in their responses to temperature, resulting in different mite communities associated with bark beetle progeny. The effects of temperature on beetle reproduction could not be assessed because of high wood borer density, but inter-relations among surviving beetles, mites and fungi were altered by temperature. Results support the hypothesis that temperature can produce direct and indirect effects on the web of mutualistic and antagonistic relationships within the community of D. frontalis and their symbiotic mites and fungi.
90002365|With continuing proliferation of human influences on landscapes, there is mounting incentive to undertake quantification of relationships between spatial patterns of human populations and vegetation. In considering such quantification, it is apparent that investigations must be conducted at different scales and in a comparative manner across regions. At the broader scales it becomes necessary to utilize remote sensing of vegetation for comparative studies against map referenced census data. This paper explores such an approach for the urbanized area in the Tokyo vicinity. Vegetation is represented by the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) as determined from data acquired by the
90002613|In the analysis of multidimensional ecological data, it is often relevant to identify groups of variables since these groups may reflect similar ecological processes. The usual approach, the application of well-known clustering procedures using an appropriate similarity measure among the variables, may be criticized, but specific methods for clustering variables are neither investigated in detail nor used broadly. Here we introduce a new clustering method, the Hierarchical Factor Classification of variables, which is based on the evaluation of the least differences among representative variables of groups, as revealed by a two-dimensional Principal Components Analysis. As an additional feature, the method gives at each step a principal plane where both the grouped variables and the units, considered only according to these variables, can be projected. This method can be adapted to count data, so that it may be used for classifying both rows and columns of a contingency data table, by using the chi-square metric. In an example, we apply both methods to vegetation and soil data from the Campos in Southern Brazil.
90002429|In this paper, we examine the application of a particular approach to induction, the minimum message length principle and illustrate some of the problems that can be addressed through its use. The MML principle seeks to identify an optimal model within some specified parameterised class of models and for this paper we have chosen to concentrate on a single model class, that of mixture separation or fuzzy clustering. The first section presents, in outline, an MML methodology for fuzzy clustering. We then present some applications, including the nature of the within-cluster model, examination of the univocality of results for different groups of species and the effectiveness of presence data compared to purely quantitative data. Finally, we examine some possibilities of extending MML methodology to include within-class correlation of species, the existence of dependence between observed samples and the comparison of different classes of models.
90002565|Both local and regional factors determine local species richness. We investigated the relative role of local (13 soil and tree stand structure variables) and regional factors (19 climate, land cover and geographic location variables) in determining the richness of several vascular plant functional groups in indigenous forest fragments in southeastern New Zealand. The predictor variables explaining the largest fraction of the variation in species richness were identified using a backward and forward stepwise procedure, with adjustments for the number of variables and testing for multicollinearity. The total proportion of variation explained by local and regional factors was highest for tree species richness (54.1%) and lowest for herbaceous species richness (28.2%). We found differences between the functional groups in the extent to which species richness was explained by local vs. regional factors, but both showed some ability to explain the species richness of all functional groups. The abundance of the strongly competitive tree species
24113507|Modern agriculture is one of the main anthropogenic threats to biodiversity. To explore the effects of agricultural intensification we investigated carabids and spiders in two studies; in 2003 in grasslands and two years later in cereal fields in the same region. Both aimed to study the effect of management on arthropod diversity and composition at local and landscape scales. In 2003, we used a paired design for grasslands (extensively vs. intensively grazed). In 2005, a gradient design was applied with a total of seven land-use intensity categories. In both studies, sampling was carried out using funnel traps with the same sampling effort. Linear mixed models showed that high grazing intensity in grasslands had a positive effect on carabid species richness and abundance, but no effect on spiders. Landscape diversity had a positive effect only on carabid abundance. In the case of cereal fields, the management intensity (nitrogen fertiliser kg/ha) had a negative effect on spider richness and no effect on carabids. After variance partitioning, both local and landscape characteristics seem to be important for both cereal and grassland arthropod communities. Based on our results, we think that current and future agri-environmental schemes should be concentrated on cropland extensification. Low intensity croplands could act as a buffer zone around the semi-natural grasslands, at least in this biogeographic region.
